

Whisky of
EL Gr. WATKINS & 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— . . . . ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
all Classes of SECURITY,
DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M 5 W MONT DE FIETE D SI C? L T -R
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
And at
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
]\mn-
L± i
IH'l
m
'a • i
ai-
to
SC
iiai:
Ctll
on
m-
CJ
Ciiwjyyi
lira
I
c
on:
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-OAV FOR SO-PAGE BOOK,
OSCILLATING
WALL
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY
rQOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
'-»r In- and Out»door Sleeping.
?rican Wall Bed 'Co.,
3«Q George Street, near Q.P.0., Sydney
Hulton’d
G,”
HomdA &acot\
'JcOi£>' '&&&£>! §
CHUBB’S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
un
TABLETS
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER C 0279 George Street, Sydney.
g
HHUTSH
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
EVERYWAY.
“ Not the same as others.”
L.et ms send you samples, illustrations
and printed matter that will prove this
claim.
MALTHOID
Roofing:
The Paraffine Paint Co., Cliallis House,
Sydney. D. S. Evans, Australasian
Manager.
AM I WU D
Wall-board
BULLOCH LADES
St:*;. . .. ' •
WHISKIES
i
§
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. ~
TEEL TRUCK
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoL 37.—N0. 1923.]
[Thursday, December 21, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


The Round Table”
For SEPTEMBER.
A REVIEW of British and Dominion Politics.
Includes noteworthy articles on Reconstruction
after the War and on France. Articles on Ireland,
Mr. Hughes in England, Split in Australian Labor
Movement.
2/6 per copy; 10/- per annum.
At MACMILLAN & CO., Melbourne. All booksellers.
A XMAS or NEW YEAR GIFT FOR HIM!
cu •
Sins (
Cigars
fg
Actual Size.
THE EQUAL OF SMOKES OFTEN SOLD AT DOUBLE THE PRICE.
IV, ™of 50 .. ; ; lj;« Postage: K.S.IV., 7t>;_ Inter-State, 1/2
Boxes Of Cedar Cabinet ’of 5 will be forwarded on receipt of 1/6.
A. REBBLEWHITE, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,” 21 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
fg
MUSTDIE
mmtm
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
RILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H.,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
MORE SONNETS TO BEAUTY.
Go, spend your penny, Beauty, when you
ivill,
In the grave's darkness let the stamp be
lost.
The water still will bubble from the hill,
And April quick the meadows tvith her ghost;
Over the grass the daffodils will shiver,
The primroses with their pale beauty abound,
The blackbird, be a lover and make quiver
With his glad singing the great soul of the
ground;
So if the body rot, it will not matter;
Up in the earth the great game will go on,
The coming of Spring and the running of the
water,
And the young things glad of the womb’s
darkness gone;
And the joy we felt ivill be a part of the
glory
In the lover’s kiss that makes the old couple’s
story ....
What am I, Life? A thing of watery salt
Held in cohesion by unresting cells,
Which icork they knoiv not why, which never
halt,
Myself unwitting where their Master dwells.
I do not bid them, yet they toil, they spin;
A world which uses me as I use them,
Nor do I knoiv which end or which begin
Nor which to praise, which pamper, which
condemn.
So, like a marvel in a marvel set,
I answer to the vast, as wave by wave
The sea or air goes over, dry or wet,
Or the full moon comes swimming from her
cave,
Or the great sun comes north, this myriad I
Tingles, not knowing how, yet wondering
why.
What is this atom which contains the whole,
This miracle which needs adjuncts so strange,
This, which imagined God and is the soul,
The steady star persisting amid change?
What waste, that smallness of such power
should need
Such clumsy tools so easy to destroy,
Such wasteful servants difficult to feed,
Such indirect dark avenues to joy.
Why, if its business is not mainly earth,
Should it demand such heavy chains to sense f
A heavenly thing demands a sivifter birth,
A quicker hand to act intelligence.
An earthly thing were better like the rose
At peace with clay from which its beauty
grows
Let that which is to come be as it may,
Darkness, extinction, justice, life intense,
The flies are happy in the summer day,
Flies will be happy many summers hence »
Time with his antique breeds that built the
Sphinx
Time tcith her men to come whose wings will
tower,
Poured and ibill pour, not as the wise man
thinks.
But with blind force, to each his little hour.-
And when the hour has struck, comes death
or change,
Which, whether good or ill, we cannot tell,
But the blind planet will wander through her
range
Bearing men like us who will serve as well.
The sun will rise, the winds that ever move
Will blow our dust that once were men in
love.
From “Good Friday and Other Poems,”
by John Masefield (Macmillan, New York;
$1.25).
Mr. Wells Sees It Half-way
Through
Once more an Englishman looks at the
world —a surprising world, utterly unfore-
seen. Wells calls his latest and greatest
novel Mr. Britling Sees It Through (Cassell,
per Sydney Book Club) ; but though Brit-
ling comes out of his sorrows into the clear
light of sympathy, his trials are only begin-
ning. There is a whole world of fresh suffer-
ing and fresh sacrifices opening up before
Mr. Britling and all the other Britlings of
this Empire. Mr. Britling is not likely to
survive those sufferings; but Wells may. And
before peace happens there is plenty of time
for Wells to write several more books upon
the reaction of the English soul to the war ;
but it is doubtful whether lie can write such
a remarkable book as this.
Briefly, it is merely the record of the effect
of the sledgehammer blows of this war upon
one sensitive, intelligent and typical British
mind. As a piece of psychology this is the
most incisive tract that Wells has yet
written; as a record of the war it is a docu-
ment of historical importance, since for pos-
terity it recalls the rapidly-varying moods of
the English people and their successive men-
tal and emotional attitudes to the shifting
phases of the war. How well Wells makes
us recall our own absurd and puerile atti-
tudes, as he lays bare the writhing soul of
Mr. Britling'! But the book is not a mere
essay; it is a full-blooded novel of real
people, a story delightful, poignant, sincere
and ending on a note of exalted altruism.
How brilliantly Wells pictures the world
that was!
People may be too safe. We live at the
end of a series of secure generations in which
none of the great things of life have changed
materially. We’ve grown up with no sense
of _ danger—-that is to say, with no sense of
responsibility. None of us really believe that
life can change very fundamentally any more
for ever. All this looks as though it was
bound to go on steadily for ever. It seems in-
credible that the system could be smashed.
.... Old Asquith thinks that we always have
got along, and that we always shall get along,
by being quietly artful and saying: “Wait
and see.”
How, indeed, could England envisage the
possibility of war ? Especially Mr. Britling,
in his secluded home at Matching’s Easy?
What was war to Matching’s Easy—to all
the Matching’s Easies great and small that
make up England? The last home that was
ever burnt by an enemy within a hundred
miles of Matching’s Easy was burnt by
the Danes rather more than a thousand years
ago. And the last trace of those particular
Danes in England was certain horny scraps
of indurated skin under the heads of the
nails in the door of St. Clement Danes in
London.... The English were the spoilt chil-
dren of peace. They had never been wholly
at war for 300 years, and for over 800 years
they had not fought for life against a foreign
Power.
J*
But, inevitably and relentlessly, the war
invades the sodden peace of Matching’s Easy
and the philosophic optimism of Mr. Brit-
ling’s bright English mind—though it re-
serves its cruellest and, indeed, its vital
stroke till the end of the story. One of the
finest chapters in the novel recalls for us our
racial inability to believe that the Germans
could fight with bitterness and malignity. We
may remember how we forced ourselves to
believe that the main body of the Germans
were peaceable, kindly folk, rather fond of
us. Yet Mr. Britling is fair:—•
These Germans were an unsubtle people, a
people in the worst and best sense of the
words, plain and honest; they were prone to
moral indignation ; and moral indignation is
the mother of most of the cruelty of the
world. They perceived the indolence of the
English and the. Russians, they perceived
their disregard of science and system, they
could not perceive the longer reach of these
greater races, and it seemed to them that the
mission of Germany was to chastise and
correct this laxity.... After all, what right
had we English not to have a gun or an
aeroplane fit to bring down that Zeppelin
ignominiously and conclusively? Had we not
undertaken Empire? Were we not the
leaders of great nations?
And his sanguine temperament even led
Mr. Britling to endeavor to discover in
cruelty and hate something good, “greater
perhaps in its ultimate values than mercy?”
And, the inevitable stroke comes: Mr.
Britling’s son enlists. The war passed tin
father by to strike him through his son.
Here were the fathers, who had done
their work, shot their bolts, returned some
value for the cost of their education, unable
to get training, unable to be of any service,
shamefully safe, while their young inno-
cents, untried, all their gathering possibili-
ties of service unbroached, went down into
the deadly trenches He felt himself a
cowardly brute, fat, wheezy, out of training,
sheltering behind his son.
But before Mr. Britling sees it through he
will have ample opportunity to do his share.
We hope that Wells will tell us about it,
too. And Hugh, his son, stepping, young
and smiling, into the tank of blood that
Europe has become, writes home his bril-
liant letters.
War is an exciting game—that I never
wanted to play. It excites once in a couple
of months. And the rest of it is dirt and
muddle and boredom, and smashed houses
and spoilt roads and muddy scenery and
boredom, and the lumbering along of sup-
plies and the lumbering back of the wounded
and weary—and boredom, and continual
vague guessing of how it will end and bore-
dom and boredom and boredom, and thinking
of the work you were going to do and the
travel you were going to have, and the
waste of life and the waste of days and
boredom, and splintered poplars and stink,
everywhere stink and dirt and boredom....
This going to and fro and to and fro and
to and fro; this monotony that breaks evefi
and again into violence —violence that never
gets anywhere—is exactly the life that a
lunatic leads. Melancholia and mania. It’s
just a collective obsession—by war. The
world is really quite mad: I suppose when
an individual man goes mad and dances
about in the street without his trousers jab-
bing at passers-by with a toasting-fork, he
has just the same sombre sense of unavoid-
able necessity that we have, all of us, when
we go off with our packs into the trenches.
So Mr. Britling broods over the careless-
ness, the negligence of those twin slack
giants, England and Russia, opposed by dis-
ciplined scientific force. “It is true that
righteousness should triumph over the
tyrant and the robber, but have carelessness
and incapacity any right to triumph over
capacity and foresight?” Mr. Britling grows
impatient at the Northcliffe clamor for a
change of Government: it seems a pity that
Wells did not wait before ending his story to
tell us Mr. Britling’s opinion of the Lloyd
George coup d’&t.ut.
What’s the good of all this clamoring for
a change of Government? We haven’t a
change of Government. It’s like telling a
tramp to get a change of linen. Our men,
all our public men, are second-rate men,
with the habits of advocates. There is
nothing masterful in their minds. How can
you expect the system to produce anything
else?
Mr. Britling sneers at a suggested Cabinet
of “Carson and Lloyd George and North-
cliffe and Lady Frensham (who is meant
for the fussy society political wire-puller),
with, I suppose, Austin Harrison and
Horatio* Bottomley thrown in—as a Strong
Silent Government.”
We can’t suddenly go back on the past
and alter our type. We’ve never thoroughly
turned out and cleaned tip our higher
schools. We’ve resisted instruction. We’ve
preferred to maintain our national luxuries
of a bench of bishops and party politics.
And compulsory Greek and the university
sneer.... We’ve got to plough through with
it—with what we have —as what we are.. ..
I saw this war, as so many Frenchmen have
seen it, as something that might legitimately
command a splendid enthusiasm of indigna-
tion.... It was all a dream... .Everywhere
cunning, small feuds and hatreds, distrusts,
dishonesties, timidities, feebleness of pur-
pose, dwarfish imaginations, swarm over the
great and simple issues.... It is a war now
like any other of the mobbing, many,-aimed
cataclysms that have shattered empires and
devastated the world; it is a war without
point, a war that has lost its soul, it has
become mere incoherent fighting and destruc-
tion, a demonstration in vast and tragic
forms of the stupidity and ineffectiveness of
our species.
But from such despairs and such bitter-
nesses Mr. Britling rises to a mood of
supreme and exalted charity. For his son
is slain. And in his grief he meditates upon
God, a finite God.
A finite God who struggles in his great
and' comprehensive way as we struggle in
our weak and silly way—who is with, us—-
that is the essence of all real religion. Why!
if I thought there was an omnipotent God
who looked down on battles and deaths and
all the waste and horror of this war—able
to prevent these things—doing them to
amuse Himself —1 would spit in His empty
face.
And he hears all Europe lamenting for
her dead. .. .and writes a letter to the father
of the German tutor who had lived in his
home at Matching’s Easy. That boy had
been slain, like his son. Mr. Britling, who
had been foolish and weak and lovable,
sloughs his mean humanity and learns the
lesson of his tragedy; and pens his letter
from one bereaved father to another, a
letter of consolation and comfort. He be-
comes a peace advocate—the sort of peace
advocate whose motives one can appreciate.
Massacres of boys! That indeed is the
essence of modern war. The killing off of the
young. It is the destruction of the human
inheritance, it is the spending of all the life
and material of the future upon present-day
hate and greed. Fools and knaves, politi-
cians, tricksters and those who trade on the
suspicions and thoughtless, generous angers
of men, make wars; the indolence and
modesty of the mass of men permit them.
Are you and I to suffer such things until the
whole fabric of our civilisation, that has
been so slowly and so laboriously built up, is
altogether destroyed?... .It is you and I
who must stop these wars, these massacres
of boys.
The last chapter is headed: “Mr. Britling
Writes until Sunrise.” He will have to
write until many sunrises before he sees it
through.
®-
What Billzac Reads.
“Two Blues” : Billzac will take you right
to his heart if you send him plenty of
papers and magazines. With regard to
choice, remember that first and foremost he
reads pictures. My own experience was con-
firmed the other day by my cobber’s letter
from France, acknowledging the receipt of
Stead’s and The Triad, which in a spasm
of extreme foolishness I had sent out to
him. “What sort of a cow are you,” lie
wrote, “for sending out that sort of stuff?
For the good Lord’s sake, send out some-
thing with a few blanky pictures in it!”
This is dinkum, and just about expresses
Billzac’s literary taste. He craves for his
home papers, but for general matter give
him an illustrated paper. He simply de-
vours the English halfpenny illustrated
dailies, the more elaborate weeklies, and
lastly, any good short-story magazine that’s
not full of war.
Australian
C. H. Currey’s little study of British
Colonial Policy, 1783-1915 (Oxford Univer-
sity Press, 2s. 6d.), compactly summarises
our national and imperial development. The
bad old days, when the early governors were
usually distinguished military or naval
officers, “frequently destitute of the slightest
knowledge of the resources of the country
and of the feelings, interests and aspirations
of the people over whom they were to gov-
ern,” when “the oversea Englishmen felt
that England regarded them with mingled
contempt and condescension, and warmly
resented her attitude,” when “anything was
regarded as good enough for the colonies,”
when they were looked upon as merely “very
convenient places for persons of tainted
imputation and broken fortunes to recoup,”
and when “broad acres belonging to the
Crown were either given way or sold for
ridiculously low prices,” are feelingly
described.
Dealing with the question of re-organisa-
tion of the Empire, the author, who is
Lecturer in History at the Teachers’ Col-
lege, Sydney, rightly says that “The Federal
ideal has always found more support in the
homeland than in the oversea Dominions,
but even there it has never commanded the
enthusiasm of responsible statesmen in re-
cent years,” while the suggestion that the
present British Parliament should be placed
on a parity with Dominion legislatures, sub-
ordinated to the suggested Imperial Parlia-
ment, is at present regarded by the British
Government “with uncompromising hostil-
ity.” That double obstacle may no doubt be
surmounted under the pressure of the strin-
gent necessities of the post-bellum period;
but it is evident that L. Curtis’s project for
an Imperial Federation needs all the driving
power of enthusiasm to reach its goal.
On the question of Dominion navies,
Currey aptly points out the parlous situation
of Australasia “if a strong European Power
and an Asiatic Power were to declare war
on the British Empire simultaneously,” or
“even were Japan to declare war against
England.” “How would the United Kingdom
fare during the absence of the British fleet
if a European Power wished to have revenge ;
and, moreover, what would be the condition
of that fleet by the time it reached the
theatre of war?” Rightly or wrongly, the
people of Australia, Maoriland and British
Columbia, fear that their lands may be
peacefully penetrated or roughly seized by
a strong Asiatic Power seeking to expand.”
So he ends with the statement that the only
obvious policy, consonant with our national
aspirations, is one which supports the cre-
ation of Dominion fleets, growing and work-
ing in co-operation with the British fleet.
Frequent Imperial conferences and a wider
latitude of discussion thereat will, in
Currey’s opinion, safeguard the future of
the development of the Empire.
J*
Val Jameson writes Peter's 'Nationality
(W. Brookes, Sydney) with a purpose.
Books written with a purpose are seldom
works of art. But her heart has been
touched by stories of cruelties to which our
State-kids are subjected when they are
boarded-out in the country districts, where
the inspectors’ visits are few and probably
foreseen, and the difficulty of proving
cruelty is naturally great. For her purpose
Val Jameson has made the torturers of her
forlorn and half-starved hero a German
family, thus fatally weakening' her case.
There is no likelihood in the future of the
State boarding-out its kids with German
settlers: what the author ought to have
shown is that the evil may exist among Aus-
tralian farmers. The story is earnestly
written, and frankly makes its appeal for
the reader’s sympathy and indignation. The
types are well drawn, and though the long
arm of coincidence rudely grasps the climax,
the author evidently knows something about
the conditions she hopes to alter.
For Is. 3d. you may acquire Preludes, by
Alan Gross (Australasian Authors’ Agency,
Melb.). As there are only 13 preludes, though
most of them are short, you pay but a frac-
tion over one penny per prelude. Sounds
cheaper.than State fish, but though the author
knows how to rime prettily, and has a choice
ear for verbal melody, he has nothing else to
put into his pretty fancies. But the first of
this baker’s dozen of verses can be recom-
mended “to the Old Boys of Wesley College
who are serving the Empire,” because of its
faith in the old school:—
Because through many a bloodless field and fray
We learned the code which governs war and play;
Because our hearts were tempered in that fire
Whose flames are hot with pride and righteous ire;
Because we know for what exalted faith
Our Lion stands; and hear in battle wraith
The younger breezes blow; because we hold
our schoolboys’ oath as honored as of old—-
To play the game ; to set above the fee
Honor and Truth, Freedom and Courtesy ;
And knowing well what manner of foes assail
Our King, and how our race can never quail;
Because of this, O Motherland, we bring
All that our lives can bear, our lips can sing.


dgd
VALUE IN TOILET AND DRESSING CASES
■ mm
m
.W
I
No. 24BX. — Brush Set, Electro-plated on special
metal, in Satin-lined Case, containing Brush,
Mirror and Comb 42/«
| ■JWMSSBTSSS
«, wHhHiiWUi
lIHBf
mjff 1 „y '
I iliiillw!l 1
■
s
wmgmmKlK
r TfrfflfiSr
Hi
mm
- sm
-*+
-Wall
1 • '
XS|
'
1 ' '
.
mSM
mm
' r 'T' j: S Wm
• • :
Him ■
SB
No. 26BX. — Brush Set, Electro-plated on special metal, in
Satin-lined Case, containing Brush, Mirror and Comb... 42/-
■ami
MBHKS3O
5=H
6 5
::u'
No. 22BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on special metal,
in Satin-lined Case, containing Brush and Comb 23/6
'
:
No. 1894X.—Gent.’s Fitted Dressing Oases,
Ebony-backed Brushes—
-13/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, SO/- each.
THE Dressing Cases and
Brush Sets illustrated
in this announcement
are typical of many others
offered at the Hew Palace
Emporium and illustrated in
our Price List of Popular
Presents. A copy of this
interesting guide to gift giv-
ing will be posted, free on
request. Write for a copy;
it will solve the present
problem at any time of the
year. Value that over-
shadows all competitive
effort is assured by the influ-
ence of Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
I i
I
No. 1896X.—Ladies’ Fitted Dressing
Rolls, White Xylonite Brashes, 13/6, 17/6,
21/-, 25/-, 30/- each.
ilii
No. 23BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on special
metal, in Satin-lined Case, containing Brush,
Mirror and Comb 42/-
HH
■ ■
nil '
IS
;
bra
HE
m
gserast
B* ||OT
W u
No. 21BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on special metal,
Satin-lined Case, containing Brush, Mirror and Comb.. 42/
mm '
Wk &£
,■: - ‘ .
i _ nil! - -- - ■ H ii; —-9 S
-“-i!®— “'||i||||||||j||
: ' •
m
m
ill
RH
- I
mm
iH
'
:■
ilwllmnni
No. 25BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on special metal,
in Satin-lined Case, containing Brush and Comb. . 23/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
-
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


When You
<
Follow The
Trail
Go
‘Winchester
Guns ao d Ammunition
Made for all kinds
of shooting.
SOLO EVERYWHERE
ASK FOR THE
w
BRAND
fg
Her Dentist was
Astonished
At the perfect condition of her'
teeth. He asked the girl whose
picture you see what dentifrice
she uses.
This, she writes us, was her
answer: "Dr. Lyon’s—it is the
only preparation that gives me
perfect satisfaction.”
Satisfaction like this is pos-
sible for you. Visit your dentist
twice a year, and morning, noon and night
use
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
ft
Wll
i>s«f'C C
K°*
V
'■ .7,
SV
lIS
I
Best of all use both. If a preference exists for the Den-
tal Cream, by all means, use it, but do not overlook
the value of varying the form of the cleanser at sys-
tematic intervals by using the Tooth Powder. This
form of cleanser is super-active and its occasional use
is the only perfect safeguard for the teeth.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
*
A
% H |S 8
w
1 m
a^ie*
m
£s
o
c>
■■■mini.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH
iF^ e iiu aie i?c like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
heepmg thein clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel. •
ETJDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
TPTTiviiovrnn \ . ai ]" en e S um s and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. lost tree 1/d. Free sample posted. ROCIvE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
the
FEDERAL LORRIES
SERVE THE WORLD.
The acknowledged superiority of Federal Lorries is due entirely to
the precision and care with which they are constructed. Manufactured
by a company of long standing and excellent reputation. Backed up
by the records of thousands of satisfied owners in every part of the
world.
Buyers of Federal Lorries are assured of the soundness of their
investment. Replacement parts may always be obtained, by buying of
the world’s foremost Lorry makers.
Sturdy and careful construction to the smallest detail has made
the Federal the most dependable Lorry. All Federals have the silent,
efficient worm drive. Three sizes are manufactured:— 2-ton,
3-J-ton.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative : BOX 635 Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
M
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
• •
• •
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel., Gold » Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow & London
Rare: you _
uptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET PORTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
MR. T. I. CAMPBELL,
General Secretary Farmers 8 Settlers’ Association of New South Wales,
one of the best-known of Sydney’s commercial citizens, having held this important
position for years, gives this voluntary testimony to Clements Tonic, because he
states it merits it: —
“Farmers and Settlers’ Association, N.S.W.,
“7 O’Connell St., Sydney, 27/7/’l6.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and
experience, I do not hesitate to give you my opinion of it. simply
putting into words what I have so often spoken.
• “I believe it to be a very fine blood and nerve tonic. I know
that it has benefited me greatly. At various periods my duties are
exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and
I have always found your medicine of the greatest value to me,
having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of
my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling others to benefit by my
personal experience.
“(Signed) T. I. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any man better or more widely known than the able
Secretary of this far-reaching Association, the influence of which extends over the entire State,
and whose members amongst the pastoral and farming communities of New South Wales are
to be numbered in thousands. To all of these Mr. Campbell's letter will appeal, as equally
as it will to his numberless commercial city friends, because of its sincerity and lucid explana-
tion of the worth of a medicine the effectiveness of which is felt and recognised throughout
the Australian Commonwealth.
It is truly the medicine for the man on the land. Send for it if you suffer
from Insomnia, Poor Appetite, Weak Nerves, or Brain Fag. ALL CHEMISTS.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


“BIFF” Means Comfort
and Contentment
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, relieved without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
&rj
9 fe
a
iun\um > ,i ll r j,nn^
To those who are troubled with sore, tender, ach-
ing, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling feet,
chilblains, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF”
will bring quick relief. “BIFF” is a scientific com-
pound which draws out all poisonous matter from
the pores of the skin, leaving the skin in a per-
fectly healthy condition, to perform its natural
functions. This unique compound will render
the feet sweet and antiseptic.
EXTRACTS from Unsolicited Letters
"I suffer terribly with large Bunions, and ‘BIFF’
is the only thing that has given any relief.” —
Mrs. A. F., Victoria.
''lt is just splendid for the feet. I had very little
faith in it till I tried it.”—Mrs. L. C., Qld.
"Through ‘BIFF’ I can manage a four-bar gate.”
—Mr. H. L., n.s.w.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
; tores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
K v
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
if you use freely several times a day
Rowland's
Kalydor
whicn cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W ,
writes: — .
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that 1
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every,
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
N. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
a
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
VELVOLINF
A Cool, Creamy Application
Hot Winds, Heat and Cold. Sooth-
ing and Cooling for the Shin
ALL CHEMISTS
1/fe BOTTLE —^
OR POST FREE'' ' '
BONNINGTON & CO. Ltd.
179 HARRIS ST.? (
SYDNEY V
\ ttt.
\vs>
n
i g
l
The Great Preventive
of Mosquito, Sandfly and
other Insect Bites
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINCTON & CO., LTD.
79 HARRIS ST . SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
[3
CELEBRATED
S 3
%
%
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young' —hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.
Duerdin & Salisbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co , Merchants, Hobart. [1
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
fg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
-*////
VM
m
w
/f
%
£s
N,
WliX
n
Y'
y
v y
\ A
.
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible—r
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
uschenSalt;
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Seated Yonder.
Hastings, whom I knew of yore,
Home from war to-night I greeted ;
Though he’s gone this hour and more,
Yonder, still, I see him seated.
Somewhat sterner, grey and set,
Worn by war, more stained by weather,
So he seemed, than when we met
Two years gone this night together.
How he talked then, while we sat
By the red logs richly glowing—
Now of this and now of that,
All the soul within him showing!
How he talked then, two years gone—
Threading.homespun themes with laughter;
While the fickle firelight shone,
Lighting blackened beam and rafter!
Then, of something sweet and bright,
Less of earth than Heaven, he hinted;
How upon a certain night
All his world grew rainbow-tinted.
Here one did not need to seek,
Prise and pry to find the lover;
More than fire-glow lit his cheek
As he named her three times over.
This was two years since, and then
Smiling Fate bent o’er his shoulder.
Now, he came to-night again
Somewhat greyer, sterner, older.
01der.... yes, and somewhat grave,
As when one looks through the pleasant
World about him, bright and brave,
On a dread scene grimly present.
Yet, what more could man desire
Than that hour of cordial greeting—
Heart warmth, and a warmth of fire
For the chilled blood’s genial heating?
Much had happened, much ’twas plain
Best forgotten ; war and glory,
When the wounds still ache with pain,
Make no pleasant fireside story.
Yet Love stayed ; and having this
Had he not Life’s best and sweetest—
Youth’s gemmed crown, consummate bliss;
Heaven-on-eai;th and joy completest?
Tick by tick the moments sped,
Yet the one great question tarried....
Then he spoke it; and I said,
As one says some trifle: '“Married !”
Pain more fierce than Death, I think,
Scourged him with its knotted lashes
At my one word ; with a clink
Fell a live coal on the ashes.
Then he left me, broad brows knit,
Much as one who seems to ponder
Some great puzzle.... and I sit
Seeing him still seated yonder.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Tree.
My roots grow stronger in the earth,
And I perforce give birth on birth
To leaf and twig that grow apace
In height and strength and forest grace.
But birds when nesting shun my boughs;
Beneath are heard no lovers’ vows;
The daisies born within my shade
Quiver with fear and swiftly fade.
And children pass with quickened pace,
Save he who with youth’s easy grace
Will catch my lowest branch and swing,
Feet dancing on the air, and sing.
(My branches rock with cursed glee,
I know the thing that is to be —
That blackened tongue, those eyes astare.
Swinging and dancing on the air!)
Tossing their laughter to the sky,
Glad of their growth the trees near-by,
Each in its turn, will be hewn down
And fashioned in the neighboring town.
And one whose limbs are green and brave
Shall hear the shout of storm and wave,
Or in the holy quiet be
The cross of Christ’s own agony.
And one a bow shall teach to sing
Long notes on music’s softest string.
Voicing the soul of that sweet wind
It knew when sun and star were kind.
To toll of bell one will be sped,
Clothing with dignity the dead,
When that fierce, passionate lover, Death,
Kissing, has choked the struggling breath.
From seedling each grows to its end
(Under his weight I sway and bend),
Since sun or time or seed might be
I am foredoomed —the gallows tree!
MAORILAND.
JOHN EGAN.
The Gods that Youth Loves.
Oh, I have loved the cheeks of May,
And sought the eyes of Flo,
Have worshipped at the lips of Fay;
Till, with my years, I know
That charms will fade, and beauties fly.
Because the gods that youth loves die!
I’ve lived within a golden dream,
Have felt ambition strong,
And high intentions, like a stream.
Have swept my days along:
I view them not without a sigh—
Alas, the gods that youth loves die!
Like myths from times when earth was
young,
And Jove was still alive,
To grace a song that may be sung.
My memories survive—
Sweet, pleasant things! I know not why,
But all the gods that youth loves die.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


FOR YOUR
XMAS TOUR
FIT
and
Keep the Home
Tyres Turning.
Perdriau Tyres have a
decided advantage over any foreign
tyre inasmuch as Perdriaus are
Made in Australia under Aus-
tralian conditions by Australian
workmen to suit Australian roads'.
Six Perdriau users
average 10,000 miles each.
FIT YOUR CAR TO=DAY.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle.
Note New Melbourne Address-
-122 Flinders Street.
fg
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Rook contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney,
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
n
9
Aren’t You Glad You Came?
Says the dainty little hostess of the picnic, as she holds
up to the view of everybody the tin of
REX Camp Pie
that someone very thoughtfully slipped into the basket.
And there are few dissenting voices.
“E>EX” CAMP PIE is wonderful Picnic Fare. Just slice it up or
make Sandwiches of it. If possible have some kind of Salad with
it.
Incidentally keep a tin or two on your pantry shelf regularly this
Summer time.
“SEX” CAMP PIE is made from the choicest compounded meats,
carefully minced, seasoned and packed with a delectable Jelly.
Ready to serve and eat when you open the tin.
Sold by Grocers Everywhere.
Ask also for
Rex Luncheon Cheese
The piquant, economical liuncheon
Cheese that is perfectly digestible.
It can be spread easily—no butter is
needed.
fg
Ask also for—
“Bex” Veil and Tongue Pate.
“Bex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Bex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Bex” Brand Lard for Cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
“Bex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Figs’ Feet in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongue in Jelly,
lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly,
lib. tins.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.,
B 1.
Carers of “Rex” Hams & Bacons,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
ECONOMY the Order of the Day.
dfg
MOTOR-OWNERS !
If you want to Economise Fit
Smith’s
Perfect British
Speedometers
To correctly determine your Tyre Mileage
and Petrol Consumption.
S. SMITH & SONS (MA) LTD.
199 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
’Phone City 2087.
The House for British Motor Accessories,
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
LOW PRICES FOR SPARE PARTS.
Great Advantages of Standardisation.
Substantial Inducement to Purchasers.
One of the great advantages of the standardisation of
the Dodge Brothers Car, which in its main features
remains practically without alteration from year to year,
though refinements are continually being added, is that
a full range of spare parts can always be maintained by
the distributors. Moreover, on account of the very large
production, the prices can be made more than attractive.
All spare parts are sold at low prices, but in order
to fully appreciate the extraordinary values disclosed by
the rates in force it is necessary to see the parts them-
selves, and we therefore extend a cordial invitation to all
motorists to inspect same.
The permanency of the Dodge Brothers standard
overcomes the difficulties inseparable from alteration of
parts in consequence of change in models, and makes for
substantial economy to motorists.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 87.—N0. 1923.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916.
Price Gd.
THE WEARY TRIO.
“The year ends with the war apparently no nearer a conclusion than it was at the dawn of 1916.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, ior Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
alt Business Communications to be addressed to The
A. onager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form, of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding Jtwo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting, photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. \Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
DC.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/J/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark St.ree.ts, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt: —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
, Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) ; Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Hid.;
AOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, 40z., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
fiuTSSktfleZML
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916.
THE PITY OF THE WOLF.
“Germany has been seized with pity at the
unspeakable misery of humanity and is ready
to give peace to the world.” That is the
text of the gentle, soul-stirring note which
has gone forward from the Kaiser to the
Pope; and the world naturally reads it
through misted eyes - and feels its universal
waistcoat swell with emotion at the thought
of the vast mercy of the Teuton taking up
the Christmas refrain where the Herald
Angels dropped it nineteen hundred years
ago. The war is not at a standstill. Far
from it! If at places it pauses for breath,
it does so in the hope that the next blow
of its paw will be more murderous than
any that have gone before. Russia is
gathering strength ; France, clear-eyed, shows
no sign of shrinking from the biggest test;
Italy keeps busy and enthusiastic; Britain
is slowly beginning to be resolute. At the
lower end of Europe, Turkey, Bulgaria,
Servia, Roumania and Greece are tangled up
with their aiders and abettors in a clawing,
mauling, stabbing mess. On the sea the
big British fleet watches for battle, while
the enemy submarine crawls under the waves
to make war on the collier and the trawler
and buoys itself with hope of getting a hos-
pital ship or a passenger liner freighted with
women and children. In the centre of all
the disturbance lie the Teuton empires,
which up to the present we have regarded
as wounded giants snorting with fury and
working destruction in its most horrible
forms, but which prove on their own assur-
ances to be lovers of peace “seized with pity
at the unspeakable misery of humanity” and
ready to fold all .the world in a vast
embrace of love. They have told the Pope
so and hinted the same thing to Woodrow
Wilson.
* * * *
Certainly, with the pungent war-smoke
blowing in our eyes, it is hard to get a dis-
tinct view; but through the cloud the Ger-
man peace proposals and the German peace
sentiments don’t appear to have been turned
out at the same factory. The offer made
by the pitying Kaiser and his fellow-con-
spirators is that the war should cease, that
Belgium and France should be evacuated by
the invader, that Poland and Lithuania
should be torn from Russia and formed into
a separate kingdom, that the affairs of the
Balkans should be unravelled without fur-
ther use of cordite, and that all Germanyls
colonies should be handed over intact as
before the war. The programme sounds
quite a pleasant one and suggests that every-
body having learned the great lesson that
powder burns ‘and knives cut should
go back again to his job of ploughing or sell-
ing shoddy and forget what has happened
in the last, two and a half years. Had the
war game been played on old-fashioned lines,
it is quite possible that the offer might look
almost decent; or had the war been due to
a sudden madness on the part of all the
nations engaged, it might at least have
formed a decent basis for negotiations.
Unfortunately, however, the big controversy
has been bad both in origin and in manners.
England’s reason for joining the fight was
the trampling of Belgium. Murder, lust,
rapine, theft and destruction were let loose
on the Belgians by the Germans who had
sworn to protect them. The “unspeakable
misery of humanity” was deliberately
planned in Berlin, advocated by statesmen,
explained and excused by philosophers, sanc-
tioned and blessed by the clergy and carried
out by German soldiers with every accom-
paniment of abominable crime and every
refinement of hideous cruelty. That Germany
should leave the country that has been raped
and murdered is every way desirable; but
by merely leaving it she makes no atone-
ment for her crimes committed there. Will
Germany, in quitting the country she was
pledged to protect and ruthlessly attacked,
build again the broken cities, sow again the
war-trampled fields, restore to Belgian citi-
zens the wealth, filched from them, hang a
German soldier for every rape and murder
committed, and leave hostages of her princely
families in the hands of the Belgians as a
guarantee that the next treaty will be some-
thing more than “a scrap of paper”? In
the light of her declaration of pity this
would seem no more than a fair thing. To
merely get out of the country after she has
destroyed it does not suggest any particular
enlargement of the heart. Then there are
the other places that have been strafed in
a similar fashion to be considered. Belgium
was the cause of Britain’s entrance into the
war, but it is not the sole cause of Britain’s
staying in it. The German pity, new from
the local hunger-factory, must expand and
amplify itself before it can get us to regard
it as the real article. If the burglar enters
the' house, smashes the furniture, robs the
safe, kills the housemaid, ruptures the cat
and sets fire to the washhouse, his penitence
for his crime is not sufficiently indicated by
his mere willingness to walk away with so
much of the plunder as he can conveniently
carry.
* * * *
The fact is that, whatever started the
war, it is now being waged for the destruc-
tion of the Prussian spirit of organised
aggression. If that is not smashed it will
have won the war whatever nations are
nominally victors. To stop now, even if
the Germans gave twice as much as they
have offered, would be to Prussianise the.
world. Every nation would have to arm
itself to the teeth and stay armed all the
time; and arming to the teeth when there
isn’t any immediate cause for it is the very
soul of Prussianism. If we believe that we
can win the war straight out, the cheapest
thing we can do is to win it. Compromise
must cost more in the end. If we are not
sure about being able to win the war, the
best thing we can do is to try to win it,
because that is the most expensive _ thing
we can force on the enemy, and Prussianism
exhausted and scared is Prussianism beaten.
The great new outburst of German pity,
which may or may not have for its driving
force the lack of sausage in Hamburg and
elsewhere, is nothing to the vast pity of
the Allied nations who foresee the possible
miseries of the future as well as the present
“unspeakable” ones. However sorry the
Teuton may or may not feel about it now,
the fact remains that he is solely responsible
for what humanity has suffered through this
war, and he is the responsible person who
must pay. There is a verdict _of wilful
murder recorded in the English courts
against Wilhelm the Baby Killer, and there
is an unwritten verdict to the same effect
recorded against the German nation in the
Court of Mankind. Whether the Allies can
break the power which imposed these and
other countless crimes upon the world is
another question ; but it would be better to
allow the war to become a fixture than to
answer cant with cant and fool ourselves
out of our convictions merely because the
enemy uses a pleasant catchword.
ARBITRATION AND THE MELTING-
POT.
Joe Carruthers, ex-Premier of N. S.
Wales, pushed himself forward the other day
to remark that the Arbitration Act should
be publicly burned by the common hangman.
George Beeby, having hooked a portfolio in
the Ministry of the same State, took the
opportunity to announce that in his judg-
ment much of the industrial legislation
relating to wages would have to be scrapped.
Multitudinous strikes have been organised
during the last year or so for the purpose of
expressing the contempt of various unions
for the arbitration system. The general
attitude of office-holding politicians has been
that of a crowd conspiring to reduce the
business of arbitration to farce. Under all
these circumstances, it is not improbable
that the opinions expressed by Carruthers
and Beeby represent the ideas entertained by
a very considerable number of people. The
notion prevalent among one mob appears to
be that, after minute calculations involving
such diverse factors as the purchasing value
of a sovereign and the sustenance to be
derived from given allowances of proteids
and carbohydrates, the State should fix a
minimum wage', below which competition
would be illegal, leaving all the re«t to look
after itself. Among another crowd there is
the idea that organised use of the big stick
is a more reliable method _ of hitting up
wages and improving conditions than strug-
gling to get those things through a Court.
Between them all, these people who. for
reasons of various kinds, are hostile to
arbitration, have made hash of the system.
Now. therefore, Australia must either re-
cast the law and administer it or confess
failure to protect the citizens and the nation
from outrage by warring combinations of
bosses and workmen. In the event of a con-
fession of failure Joe Carrutiiers will be
able to whistle up the official neck-breakers,
and then it won’t be long before the Aus-
tralian people will learn by bitter experience
that cutting one another’s throat is about
the poorest method ever devised of reducing
order out of chaos.
It is as certain as the multiplication table
that an arbitration system which cannot
prevent strikes is not worth tuppence. It is
also open to no sort of doubt that if a large
body of men decide not to work they cannot
be compelled to by any means that would
be tolerated in this country, or that would
be expedient anywhere else. Further, there
are multitudinous reasons to suspect that no
system devised to get rid of strikes by (1)
making them illegal and (2) removing the
reasons which might impel men to strike,
can be anything but a joke if it is treated
like a circus and if Parliaments turn every-
thing which it accomplishes into ridicule.
It is these latter bodies which have done the
greatest damage. They have acted as if
Arbitration Court' awards were something
that stood detached from the work of Par-
liament —that Parliament could legislate
and borrow and boom with confidence that
the bloated conditions thus created would be
met by awards of the Courts. And they have
persistently shirked the responsibility of re-
cognising that, even if men cannot be com-
pelled by the State to work, the State has a
right to expect them not to enter into plots
to create disorder. Under the old system
of bash and biff between the boss and the
toiler, a strike was regarded as a matter
between the principals only. The rights of
the community to be considered were only
recognised after long argument—and mainly
after Labor had grown convinced that the
strike was a dangerous weapon. From that
wretched welter of conflicting interests grew
a higher conception of citizenship and of
communal rights and responsibilities. It was
this which gave birth to the arbitration sys-
tem, and in the view of this paper, mon-
strous though the mistakes have been
and grossly though the system has been
abused, that ideal of civic responsibility
was far higher and better than the one it
superseded, and more decent than many of
those which have been operating to strangle
it. And disappointing though the scheme of
arbitration may have been in many ways,
and dishevelled though it looks to-day, The
Bulletin is firmly convinced that it repre-
sents something of more value to the citizens
of Australia than a reversion to conditions
under which Capital and Labor punched each
other round the ring, with the State looking
on as a mere observer.
* * * *
The rock-bottom causes of arbitration
getting into a state of coma are, broadly,
two in number. First, from it has devel-
oped the dead-level wage and ihe application
of the one-man-is-as-good-as-another theory to
industrial effort; and, in the second place,
when Labor obtains another Is. a day, it
presently discovers itself to be often no
better and sometimes worse off. Neither of
these things is incapable of correction.
The first of them is obviously a blot.
That a skilful, industrious tradesman
should receive no more than one who
is something else is, as the world
stands to-day, an atrocity. And it is
equally atrocious that the deserving wage-
earner who gets an award of 10s. instead of
the old 9s. a day, should find that he really
gets 18s. disguised as fl. When this hap-
pens, and generally speaking it has been
happening all along the line, there naturally
enough grows up a suspicion that arbitra-
tion is no use. It is here that public policy
has been at fault in not protecting the wage-
earner. No scheme of wage-fixing can
claim admiration from Labor if, while the
fixer is making his adjustment, other insti-
tutions are at work to destroy it. It is use-
less to tell Labor that it has had an increase
of 25 per cent, in wages if the advance yields
no more than the coins it received previously.
No “expediting of awards,” no framing of
rules and regulations, no frantic bargaining
over a bound and gagged public such as
took place in connection with the colliery
strike, can make the arbitration system look
any better than it is, unless such advantages
as it secures to Labor are real instead of
fictional. Labor has everything to gain and
nothing to lose by directing its political
activities to this end, instead of applauding
the incendiary counsel of Joe Carruthers
or inciting Beeby to acts of destruction.
Any fool can burn things or chop them up.
There are some unions which, taking the
narrow view and regarding the public as-
fair game, can do as well without arbitra-
tion as with it. But there are many that
cannot, and there is but a poor sense of
citizenship in a community that is content
to be the chopping-block of industrial war-
fare. To the great body of working men
and women, arbitration, backed by a Parlia-
ment with reasonable vision, instead of one
reckless of the public welfare, can be a
sound protection against exploitation. The
alternative to it is a' squalid struggle in
which the strongest goes to the wall and
the weakest into the gutter; in which Labor
preys incessantly on Labor, and the march
is always to degradation. The trouble is
not that arbitration is in itself defective for
the purposes in view, but that Australian
Parliaments have gone upon a wild career
of borrowing and booming and allowed the
economic conditions of the people to go to
the Devil. These conditions can no more
be controlled by an Arbitration Court alone
than by a billygoat.
HELL’S OUTCAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am dead now, and in Hell, so I have no
reason to lie. Hell, by the way—at any
rate my particular sector —is quite different
from the place which the Churches picture.
In life I was a heavy drinker and frequenter
of race-meetings, disorderly houses, boxing-
matches and hotels. Here I inhabit a vast,
barn-like building with a tin roof —a Metho-
dist chapel multiplied by x. A cold wind
whistles eternally through the open windows,
and it rains day and night. Clerical devils—
narrow-browed little men, with red noses
and monkey-shaves —preach to us in relays
on the virtues of hating the people in the
opposition chapels. We sit shivering in-
terminably, on wooden benches, our feet on
the cold, uncarpeted floor. Sour milk and
stale buns are handed round three times a
day. We will eat and drink nothing else
for ever and ever. • %
This, as I have said, is my hell.
In the distance we can hear the roars of
Stadium crowds, the crash of glasses banged
upon bar-counters, and the cheers of the
Ring, mingling with the oaths of punters, as
favorites finish “down the course ” In this
environment may be met the lost souls of
such men as the Rev. Elias Stinger (in
life he opposed the regulation of all “vice,”
so that those who fell might suffer the worst
torments for the discouragement of the
others), Lumpleet, M.L.A., who got into
Parliament originally on the Social Purity
ticket, and many thousands of virtuous
people who made the fatal error of thinking
that to be virulently Slanderous is to be
vehemently Good. Scandalous songs and
dances, rendered by female fiends in low-
necked dresses ; bad language; the spectacle
of beer flowing like water —by these and
kindred horrors myriads of Pharisees are
tortured without mercy or respite. Hence
the phrase that each of us makes his own hell.
It applies with peculiar force to my case.
I am one of an accursed band —the men
who did nothing for their country during the
Great War. I was not exactly afraid. In
hell, as in heaven, they have a better sense
of moral values than to blame for not fight-
ing those whose hearts at the thought of a
fight turn to water within them. I have
fought often, more especially when drunk;
and where the other man was smaller or
weaker, I found the experience stimulating
—even pleasant. When the Big Catas-
trophes began to happen to our Empire
neither domestic nor financial considerations
kept me at home. As regards fitness I never
knew a day’s illness in 20 years which was
not occasioned by my own excesses. My
dogged avoidance of the Front was due to
one thing and one only—cunning. I knew
too much. I argued the position out with
my soul and decided that volunteering
was not good enough. In Hell no one is
allowed to possess a soul. It is one
of the most awful features of the place. The
mighty army of the Lost see, as in a looking-
glass, what one is—which is to say, what
one was on earth. Each new arrival from
the bloody battlefields of the world regards
me as I sit alone, on the end of my bench,
listening to the interminable nasal drone of
the preacher’s voice, and turns immediately
away in loathing. Judas is popular by
comparison with me. He sold his Master. I
anf of the despised who sold their country.
Regarded from the standpoint of a man
of the world, my attitude towards the War
was, of course, unassailable. What would
I get by enlisting? The obvious answer
was Nothin g! There was little kudos to
be gained by volunteering when most of one’s
friends had done it already, and when threats
of conscription were sounding louder and
louder. The chances of death or mutila-
tion, if one had the ill-fortune to reach the
firing-line, were considerable ; and' there was
the possibility of disease. Also there were
the questions of discomfort, of the pros-
pects of teetotalism for long periods,
and of the solid physical work involved.
The social penalties for shirking were sur-
prisingly light when considered in a philo-
sophic spirit. They were divisible, as I
reasoned it out, into present and future dis-
abilities. The present ones took the form of
the contempt, sometimes even the openly-
expressed anger, of women whose relations
were fighting or dead, elderly male patriots,
and returned soldiers whose comrades
were beinsr slaughtered for lack of reinforce-
ments. I explained to these nuisances, when
assailed, that I would not, for private
reasons, enlist in the A.1.F., but that I
was leaving in September (if it was then
April) or in April (if it happened to be
September) for England, where I proposed
to do my bit in a way that would horrify
the Huns. At one time certain plainspoken
acquaintances became so offensively incred-
ulous, both to my face and behind my back,
that I thought seriously of going to London
and there representing that I was waiting
only for the following September (or April,
as the case might be) to hurry back to Aus-
tralia and join the A.I.F. Some of my
friends had executed this manoeuvre with
great success. By careful attention to the
bottle and other joys, and bv a convincing
affectation of military ineptitude, a number
of them had contrived to be kept on Home
Defence jobs for as much as a year after
enlisting. I resolved that if, ultimately, I
was kicked on board a London-bound vessel
by the boot of popular derision, it would be
my own fault if the British War Office was
so mad as to put me in the firing-line. Mean-
while the assertion that I 'was going within
a few months, or would go if the situation
didn’t improve, served, at the worst, as a
temporary dam against reproach and scorn.
In regard to my position when the war
ended, I had few fears. Soldiers are never
popular after a great war. People want to
forget the horror; and one of the easiest
ways to forget is to ignore those who have
participated in it. The characters ot the
innumerable good men are besmirched by
the actions of uniformed wasters. In my
own interests I rarely neglected a chance
to get a returned soldier drunk. I calculated
that if only 50 per cent, of civilians who
were situated as I was followed suit, the
bulk of our defenders would be regarded by
law-abiding people as pariahs. I also hoped
that, before the finish, most men of 4o and
under would be either dead _or crippled.
Those who, by warily remaining at home,
had eluded both fates, would then be in a
very strong position. They would have com-
mand of their own market, so to speak. Ao
one would dream of asking these healthy,
care-free, solvent and unhaunted individuals
why they had not plunged into the just-
stilled whirlpool of blood and agony. -Ihe
sentiment of the community in regard to
the fools who had —the immemorial attitude
of non-conscript countries towards those
who have done the fighting for them would


be my shield and buckler. I visioned the
shirker as a post-war autocrat, as one who
could pick and choose at will in the matter
of jobs, women and the like.
My life, while waiting for the war to end,
was by no means unpleasant. It resenmled,
in many ways, what I pictured it would be
when the Great Danger—that of being con-
scripted—should have passed away. While
I was at home I kept my family in a pleas-
ingly nervous and adulatory frame of mind
bv the good old gag about going presently
to England to enlist. I was by no means
shunned. On the contrary. Many of my
drinking associates were situated similarly
to myself. They also intended, at some un-
specified time in the future, to enlist
in England. After seven or eight whiskies
we used actually to feel that we were the
real heroes, inasmuch as we meant to face
known horrors, while those who had already
done so had not realised what they
were in for when they enlisted, and so were
entitled to no great respect. A jarring note
was struck now and again. I remember
my cousin Adolphus telling, in a palpably
hopeful fashion, how two friends of his, who
had left Melbourne in a blaze of glory 18
months previously, were still living in
security and comfort as civilians somewhere
in Scotland. This was altogether the wrong
line; but the wretched youth had imbibed
too much to be capable of appreciating the
fact. I was fairly welcome in Society,
despite my disreputable habits. Drunk or
sober, I could usually get particular
women of my acquaintance to be seen with
me in public. They despised me for a cur
and a soaker, and showed it; but there was
a deplorable shortage of men.
And then came my absurd death. I
tumbled down a flight of hotel steps
one night, and broke my neck. In
Hell self-deception is no longer pos-
sible. I heard my epitaph pronounced
by scores of those whom I had told
myself were admirers, if not friends.
“Tight as usual, I suppose, when it hap-
pened. Well, he was no loss.” “Poor fel-
low ! So sudden! But then, he never could
keep sober.” “A shirker and a sot, sir, and
a damned good riddance whichever way you
look at it.” And so on.
But the bitterest hatred and contempt are
to be read upon the open minds of those
who lived as I did on earth and who are
hence called upon to share my fate, but
who, at least, died like men. They shun
me. They gather together, in the horrible
Sunday-go-to-meeting toppers and frock-
coats which we are forced to wear here, and
revile me. I am one of the loneliest men in
Hell. Torquemada sat on my bench for a
little while, having, with a hideous refine-
ment of cruelty, been shifted to this atmo-
sphere of chilly Dissent about a century ago.
I ventured a remark on the disgusting
quality of the milk. He did not answer—
simply took up'his tall hat and hymn-book
and moved away. As the war goes on I
can see nothing ahead but more misery and
more shame. I commented to Deeming on
the difficulty of keeping one’s feet warm.
“You oughtn’t to find cold feet a change,”
he replied brutally, and joined Torquemada.
And this sort of thing is to last for all
eternity J
T. B. D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Philosophy of Ice-creams.
«t>
lat O Maori discourses :
The source of the great war cannot be found in
the slaughter of a royal personage in Bosnia or in
the desire of the Teuton to sit in the sun. It goes
deeper than that. The real cause of war is idleness
the furious desire to exercise the muscles of big
emotion which have grown flaccid through the
cramping times of peace. Work —the thing com-
monly called work —is not man’s real business at all.
Mere elephants can be taught to pile logs, and dogs
to pull carts and sledges. So the toil man accom-
plishes with a spade or an axe or a pen is on the
animal plane. Where he differs from the animal is
in emotion; and consequently emotion is his true
sphere of labor. The thing called civilisation
cramps and narrows all emotion, and in doing so
twists manhood round and round in its own length
until it grows giddy, loses its grip and breaks cut
into some form of madness. Exhibited on a ji g
scale, that madness usually takes the form of war.
Then wise men get their spectacles close together
and decide that what the world wants by way of
cure is a double dose of the thing that caused it to
go off the handle. •
Nobody seems to think that a counter-excitement
greater than the war itself, but milder in its effects,
might be the true cure. The whole effort of kindly
neutrals, flying their stuffed doves from an ark of
humanitarian theory, is towards restraint and
repression, while in reality a larger and more intense
field for emotion might work the trick. Battles in
the old days sometimes paused right in the middle
of their blood and fury to look at two champions
putting up a special exhibition of attempted
murder; and many a Viking raid stopped short
against a mass of beer and forgot to go on, being
diverted by the emotion of horn-draining competi-
tions, which called for more valor than the swing-
ing of the chain-hammer or morning-glory. In the
case of the present war, short of the arrival of an
archangel with a flaming trumpet to announce the
Day of Judgment with sulphur trimmings, there
seems to be no way left of providing counter attrac-
tions for the combatant nations. Death—the top
adventure of life—is always so near . the trenches
that, unless some genius can provide a thrill greater
than dying, it seems inevitable that the war must go
on until it lies down from plain exhaustion.
With regard to the future, however, a lot can be
done. The chief human need must be properly
catered for, and the umbrella of sad-hued reform
must be folded away. To get down to detail, it is
things like the prohibition of liquor, the prudery
that narrows the scope of public entertainment, the
insistence on the old Hebrew Ten. Commandments, and
the general atmosphere of moral coercion that make
wars possible. Nobody who can do exactly as he
likes is going to war; and there isn’t any special
reason why everybody shouldn’t do exactly as he
likes within very wide limits. The thing that man
has in common with the animal comes nicely within
the sphere of law and order; it is the thing man
has in common with the Devil that lifts him to the
higher emotional plane. No devil could ever have
planned any hell worse than that which rages in
France and Roumania; but a world of decent
devils, given a fair chance, wouldn’t make a hell
at all. They would make an Arcadia, and turn to
Fauns and Satyrs, exactly as the Pelasgian devils did
when they came into the joyous freedom of a Greek
poet’s dream. Let the barriers of human restraint
go down, kick out Bung the moralist and Stiggins
the libertine, and there will be no more war.
Wilhelm could then cry out for a .place in the
sun, and 40,000,000 Teutons over their beer would
tell him to go and sit in it. The whole trouble is
that the safety-valve has been screwed down too
tight; and on the evidences persons in authority,
mole-blind to the shape and make of things, intend
to screw it tighter. __ Why, the English Government
has now prohibited the sale of ice-creams 1
Dodder.
The average age of British generals taking
a hand in the war is said to be 63, while the
big Russians who have been doing things
whenever there was powder to load the gun
are a trifle older. It may be all right to
thus give the command to veterans, but,
again, it may be all wrong. Wellington
was 46 when he smashed Napoleon at
Waterloo, and Nelson 47 when he died at
Trafalgar; but both these English fighters
had reached their prime some years earlier.
Wellington looked as good as ever he was
in the first hours of his Peninsula command
and Nelson certainly was at the top of his
powers at Aboukir Bay. So the yarn that
it takes a thousand years or so to train a
general and a bit more to complete the
education of a icommander-in-chief is at
least doubtful. Certainly the sort of war
French and Haig have had to fight differs
a lot from that of the Napoleonic age ; but
so did that of the Napoleonic age from the
stoush of classic days. J. Caesar was at
the top of his military fame at 45; Hanni-
bal touched his highest success at 29 ;
Alexander smashed Darius at Issus at
23. _ Unless it can be shown that military
genius is now made instead of born, the in-
ference. is that the young man can best carry
the weight and responsibility of tremendous
deeds in the field. It is said that only once
in British history did an old man carry a
battle through to a complete and satisfactory
finish, and in that case—the controversy
between Duncan and the Dutch at Cam-
perdown—the admiral, though 70 years of
age, was a giant in jsize and strength, and
heavily fortified with prayer. It looks as if
Australia’s great defence job in the years to
come might be to discover a means by which
the young man with war genius could over-
leap the red-tape and assume a high com-
mand before his seeing eye got dim and his
notions of handing out punishment crystal-
lised into mere formal*.
•
What About the Local War Machine?
An explanation from Defence Minister
Pearce about the departmental cashbox and
administrative machinery might be a good
thing to kick off the New Year with. Con-
scription is out; recruiting on the voluntary
basis is proceeding slowly. In the state-
ment of expenditure estimated for the
current year by the Defence Department,
submitted in September, it was announced
that £70,830,965 would be required to meet
the cost of maintaining a daily average of
50,000 troops in camp in Australia and
keeping the army at an average monthly
strength of 312,1.000 until June, 1917. It is
not giving away anything to the enemy to
say that this estimate of military strength is
not being realised —that instead of keeping
50,000 men in camp and shipping 3000 a week
oversea the numbers handled are much fewer.
As Pearce had all the apparatus and red-
tape for dealing with the larger bodies of
men, a statement of what this departmental
equipment is doing now would not be
out of place. If it is eating its head off
there is no reason why the taxpayers should
not be told. If it is rushing away to the
Front it would do no harm if the public
heard the facts. Anyhow, it seems that what-
ever it is doing the organisation for grap-
p mg with what was coming if compulsory
service had arrived is an unnecessarily ex-
pensive institution to maintain for grap-
pling with what has materialised since. The
circumstances make it not unreasonable to
suppose that there is a quantity of lumber
i? e Premises which might without injury
to the Treasury be cleaned away and that
the time is ripe for someone to overhaul
the business side of this Department.. There
are an amazing number of individuals about
m khaki who, whatever else they may be.
are neither returned soldiers nor reinforce-
ments. There might have been something
for them to do if the yell for “No” had not
interrupted the proceedings. As it is this
paper has two suspicions. One is that some
of these people are killing time instead of
Germans, and that there are others who
might without disrupting the national organ-
make way for a few returned soldiers.
AV ill I earce oblige with a few precise re-
marks about his War Offiee? ’
«.
The Hunger for Something on the Nod.
Senator Gardiner's defence of O’Malley’s
dole of free railway passes is worth framing
Gardiner puts it this way:—
To refuse a retiring Minister a free pass is un-
worthy cheeseparing, and shows that there Is not a
spark of gratitude to the splendid public men who
have neglected their own affairs in the interests of the
people. When real democracy becomes a governing
principle, men who served it well, but had at last
been turned out by an adverse vote, would receive
the same consideration which nearly all reputable
firms extended to their employees.
This is as relevant to the point at issue as
it Gardiner had made an impassioned
address about rabbits; and the same sort
of nonsense might be talked with equal
cogency if O’Malley had handed out pants
or cigars. Why should splendid public men
like Gardiner and O’Malley and Pearce
and Millie Ivelly have to buy their own
pants when they are no longer looking
after “the interests of the people”? The
answer to that, whatever it may. be, is
the same as the reply that must be giveu
to the question why they should have to
pay, like others, for being dragged about
on the Commonwealth Railways. Poor old
democracy sees some queer things done in
its name, and this justification of a steal
on the ground that it is a prelude to a
blessed time when everyone will be able
to get in as a deadhead is a cheerful
illustration of what some people imagine
democracy means. Every time a poli-
tician or anyone else raids the public
cash-box or acquires a “concession” of
any sort or is converted into a barnacle
the taxpayers are being looted. Every dole
handed by a politician to himself or his
friends has to be paid for by the man who
works. Every parasite battening on the
democracy draws sustenance from the sweat
of the mob. And there is nothing more
“splendid,” socially or politically, about
men like Andy Fisher and Kink
O’Malley and Gardiner and the rest of
them than there is about the most obscure
toiler in the land. In so far as the obscure
toiler devotes his time to something else
than hatching schemes by which he can
become a hanger on the public funds he
is worth a thousand of them. The objection
to O’Malley’s vicarious generosity is that
grabbing the taxpayers’ money to create
hangers-on is a scandalous abuse of autho-
rity. If Gardiner feels equal to the task
of stating a case in favor of politicians pass-
ing round surreptitious charity to Parlia-
mentarians and their wives (and camp fol-
lowers), he ought to make a start. But
he cannot do it without becoming involved
in advocacy of all that frowsy, disreputable
process of nepotism and patronage and
plunder which most democrats viewed in
the past with disgust.
The Mess that Jack Made.
Westralia’s deficit is climbing towards the
two-million mark. This is a deplorable
record for about years of Labor adminis-
tration and a few months of shaky control by
the Liberal team. Driven by an irresponsi-
ble crowd, Scaddan essayed to reduce the
cost of everything from mutton to mowing-
machines ; and except for the fluke of heavy
war earnings by two of the State steamers,
which are not carrying cheap beef for the
local consumer, the combined showing of the
State enterprises would be appalling. Happy
(sometimes) Jack was certainly struck by
a disastrous and a partial drought during his
term; and the war blew out the timber in-
dustry, sending the railway earnings down.
But instead of economising, as the circum-
stances demanded, Scaddan threw loan
money about so prodigally that the State’s
interest and sinking fund bill increased by
over three-quarters of a million in five years.
Moreover, he spent the money on “agri-
cultural” railways into the Back of
Beyond and further than that, and
now they don’t pay for axle-grease let
alone interest. For a start, Wilson
brought in a freak commodities-taxatioa
scheme, which was dubiously constitutional
and undoubtedly clumsy and inequitable. He
then bumped up the income tax for the small
man, without any proportionate increase for
the bloated person. Finding, naturally, that
his poor scheme met with snorts from the
Government’s adherents as well as from the
Opposition, he made hastily for harbor with
his taxation proposals stowed away. Infor-
mal negotiations then led to a suggestion
that) a joint committee of the Assembly, repre-
sentative of all parties, should consider the
finances and devise some plan to get the
State clear of the rocksi Opposition-leader
Scaddan was not unfavorable, but the men
beliind him would have none of it. They
elected to play the game of party politics—
“ Out you go, in we come”—to the finish; and
now the Liberal Government is up against it.
Wilson has gone to the Federal head-
quarters to see whether he can raise a breeze,
and Parliament has adjourned over Christ-
mas pending the result of his mendicancy.
Whether he succeeds or not, a very Black
Wednesday seems inevitable in the civil ser-
vice before very long, and the Labor party is
obviously waiting for a regime of retrench-
ment and heavy taxation to produce an anti-
Wilson wave which will float them back on
Wrr c!L J l< ,' a ,' Slll T bfinches - So the position of
jSon, like that of every man who has to
do the cleaning-up after a loan-drunk, is
odious. Civil-service retrenchment will lose
him thousands of votes in the metropolitan
aiea, while the Country party, whose sup-
poit is essential to him, demands retrench-
ment and economy in the service instead of
increased taxation and heavier charges on
the railways. In the end, Wilson may have
to go; but whoever else attempts to clean up
the mess that Jack.' made will find trouble in
heaps.
From an Australian politician on active
service (16/10/T6) -
To-day we commenced taking the Referendum on
the Commonwealth Government’s proposal to con-
script for service overseas, and there is very strong
opposition to it. Logically, one is a little at a loss
to account for this. Asked why they intended to
vote No, the men framed replies obviously to conceal
more than they conveyed. They said, most of them,
that—well, you know, they didn’t think Australia
could spare more men without handicapping home
industries. This among other reasons less tangible.
But yarn with them, and you find that the hos-
tility is temperamental rather than logical; it is a
sort of protest against the British military system
and the restrictions imposed by what passes for dis
cipline. There is a deal of ignorance, .too, amonj
the men concerning the proposal, which practically
no attempt has been made to counteract. For in-
stance, the exemption, provisions are unknown or
imperfectly understood by many. Were they pro-
perly understood there would be less hostility.
Hughes’s manifesto, complete enough in itself, would
have been well chewed over if circulated a week or
10 days ago, and it might have cleared up much
misconception. But the thing was muddled, almost
as a matter of course, and in this big camp it was
only issued this morning, and to many of the men
not at all. Then mark what followed, because it is
so characteristic. Polling commenced at 8 a.m. and
was to have concluded at 8 p.m. ; but during the
afternoon word was received from someone in autho-
rity to discontinue the poll, pending receipt of a
message from General Bjrdwood, which was to be
delivered to the men later. The polling, it is
understood, will be continued at some future date
but whether on the basis of a wholly new poll or to
complete the interrupted one, no man knows. The
latter course will probably be pursued. When the
Fed era! Government, evading its own obvious responsi-
bilities in a period of national crisis, handed over to
Billjim this proposal for conscription, it prepared
for itself trouble it wotted not of. It has within it
all the terrors of the doctored dish or the fatal
goblet, and we who are here with the army, and who
recognise the potential evils of an adverse vote know
it.
“Beeritus”: Travelling in the Far North
of .South Aus. one is struck by the varie-
gated appearance of the aboriginal popula-
tion. Half-castes predominate, but there is
an increasing number of quarter-castes. Since
the advent of Abdul and his camel the
moral quality of the blacks’ camps has
become rotten; and the orgies indulged in
aie simply indescribable. Nearly every gang
of ’Ghans travelling with their teams tr.ke
along two or three gins, and I have seen a
Ghan with a regular harem. ' Syphilis is
rampant, and the progeny from infected gins
is in some cases absolutely revolting. Sore
eyes and ulcerous growths are .common,
while in some cases idiocy is only too
apparent in the unfortunate offspring of
these damnable misunions. In my opinion
the only remedy for this horrible condition
of affairs is a strict quarantine of the whole
of the abos., with proper medical attention,
and the removal of the infected ones to a
separate camp. Then let it be made a crimi-
nal offence for any unauthorised person, be he
black, white or brindle, to be found in any
of these camps. It is the least the Govern-
ment can decently do for the original
owners of our country, and if it has no
other effect it will at least ensure a natural
death for the few remaining members of the
once healthy tribes.
It was put this way the other day by Sydney
Telegraph -
The bank clearings continue to show a decided in-
crease in the turnover of money; the imports are
expanding in value; increases in wages continue to
be of common occurrence; and the various Govern-
ments of Australia are spending great sums of money
both from revenue and loans. Surely, such indica-
tions ought to spell prosperity.
Most surely they do nothing of the kind.
They have nothing to do with prosperity or
well-being. It is one of the common delu-
sions among men that if bank deposits show
an increase, if imports go up, or if wages
take a jump, then the country is prosperous.
As a matter of cold fact, all these things
may happen in a country verging on bank-
ruptcy. The bank transactions in Victoria
had never been so extensive, the flood of
imports never so copious .nor work and
wages so plentiful as in the times immedi-
ately preceding the discovery that there
was only a fink in the £1 on the premises.
So far as the figures relating to N. S. Wales
to-day go they are the reflex of enormous
borrowings and indications that the commer-
cial and industrial life of the State is full of
combustible gas.
:
“Seven Bells” : More than one brass-
bound shellback will endorse the remarks
of “Nefas” (B. 14/12/T6) on the lack of
provision in the War Pensions Act for
transport officers and men. The points made
should be driven home with a belaying-pin.
A number of Australian mercantile marine
officers, taking their first, second or third
officer’s ticket in one hand and their pro-
spects of long life and a peaceful death in
the other, have offered their services as
officers of transports—and the Government
has been mighty glad to get them. Their
compensations are the adventurous life and
the chance of prize-money when a submarine
is outed. And as every transport has to
pass through seas where one of Fritz’s tin
fish may bob up at any moment, the betting
is about even on Plutus or Pluto. This is
cold, wet fact, as the writer of some of the
best nautical and soldier verse The
Bulletin has lately printed could tell you
from personal experience. Hi's transport're-
cently sent a submarine to D. Jones's
capacious locker, and though the Admiralty
has allowed the score, he is still waiting
for his share of the prize money. Melbourne
Herald is taking up this matter of trans-
port officers’ pensions, but can get no satis-
faction beyond the official reply that each
Back to the Baton.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No one who has intelligently observed the arbitra-
tion principle in operation can, after the coal strike,
have any faith in its efficacy left.—Argus.
Brethren, let us amend our ways—bid
struggle and striving cease!
Let us return to the older things that ever
have made for peace—
To the mounted trooper and loaded six and
the fray in the crowded street,
Where the right and the wrong and the
don’femare-which in a beautiful discord
meet.
The past is dead. For a future bright
Let’s bank on the mottto that might is
" right.
Let us have national harmony—gird up our
loins and yell
For the peaceful noise of the roaring mob
@nd the clang of the curfew bell.
Cheers!
Settle the matter with dynamite!
The representative citizen should foster the
claims of class
With the clash and the rattle of broken
bricks and the clatter of falling glass,
And the Special cop on a hairy horse and the
dutiful magistrate,
While the rabble is flapping its scarlet flags
and bellowing hymns of hate.
Brethren, yearning up towards the light,
Let us abandon the fruitless fight.
Back to the baton and bunch of fives and
sensible stuff like that —
To the simple way of the man with the hoe
and the methods of fine old Fat !
Whoop !
What’s the matter with dynamite?
Blood in the gutters soon we’ll have, and the
girls from the factory
Shall tear apart in a frightful way the
first fat soul they see.
And the Truly Stout in a frenzy shall rush
around with boiling oil
To anoint, in the name of the sacred law, the
ravaging sons of toil.
Everyone earnestly holding tight
To the things he feels to be just and right,
While the pushes flock to the killing, each
with his trusty forget-me-not.
This is the land of the free, y’ know, the
country of equal— what?
Rats!
Ti e’ll settle it all with dynamite.
victoria.
O.L.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellaehie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co.. Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.;
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head .Office : Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &, ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY IT. CAT?Y. (Vmirmon. O. TTOWAPD POPE. Gmprnl
ifM
/•K
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to you by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND
To Director, Intelligence & Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
case will be dealt with on its merits. When
Tommy Anzac goes to glory and does not
return, Mrs. Thomas does not have to prove
her case “on its merits” —the official record
of his death entitles her to a pension as a
matter of course. Now that Naval Minister
Jensen has been relieved of the embarrass-
ment of allotting coal and electric power
to those deprived of it by the recent strike,
be might well give the matter bis attention
—if he is not too busy refusing to see
reporters who want to know what about the
purchase of a supererogatory and super-
fluous wireless system in Mars, let us say.
The Peace Proposals—and Australia.
The German may possibly have thought that
his offer to “grant peace to the world” would
be received with cheers. He may merely
have been on a fishing expedition. Or,
again, he may have aimed deliberately at
breaking up the Alliance. There is little
evidence one way or another beyond this —
that as the proposals stand they contemplate
the German pulling out a winner, and that
is the last thing in the world the Allies can
afford to let him do. Peace on that basis
would be almost as frightful as war. It
would be oply an agreement to stop fighting
until somebody felt strong enough to start
another horror. The return of the Hun to
the Pacific would make that danger ever-
present to us; and it is a contingency which
Australia should be fighting with all her
heart and soul to prevent. It is no good
fooling ourselves with the idea that the dan-
ger of this return is past. It must always
be present so long as there are unconquered
German armies in the field and German sub-
marines in the ocean. Nor is it any use
imagining that newspaper yells are going to
either win the war or decide the terms of
peace. The bayonet and the shell alone will
count, whether it be for the German or the
Allies; and the best hope Australia can have
is that the resolution of the people who are
still under the harrow of war is greater
than our own, and that their endurance will
carry them to victory. They are fighting for
the freedom of this country as surely as for
their own, and the wallop the soldiers of
France gave the German at Verdun the other
day is an encouragement to continue believ-
ing that they can finish the job if they hang
on to the brute who launched this monstrous
tragedy on the world. Incidentally, it will
do this young democracy no harm to reflect
that if others adopted the Australian atti-
tude, the restoration of the German colonies
at the back door of the Commonwealth would
be fixed up in a very few days.
. ♦
There was a lot of moaning and groaning
that was mostly sham in Sydney lately about
the calamity that would overwhelm the pro-
prietary racing club if it had to put a tote
on the course. Wliat was not explained was
why the proprietary club lias been allowed
to exist. As Joe Carruthers, ex-Premier,
holds a swag of shares in some of the
most pajhiblq, one explanation might be
found without laborious search. In point
of, fact, these institutions are as superfluous
as an umbrella in drought time. They do
no good to racing or the public or horse-
breeding. All they do is to amass cash for
shareholders, give the books a chance to
do business and divert human' effort and
horse-feed towards a lot of worthless brutes
which ought to be dragging meat carts.
Sydney has at Randwick a very fine race-
course, well equipped and within easy reach.
All the racing the metropolitan area wants
could and should be done there. Instead,
the city and district are spotted with courses
and Randwick remains empty most of the
year. The position is grotesque from every
point of view, except of that happy band
of parasites who hang on to the racing
game and might be blotted out if the thing
was handled as it ought to be and the totali-
sator used for right purposes.
“8.D.” : We have reached government by
deputation now. When the Reps, had put in
most of the day on the amusement tax
Hughes asked them to pass the schedule as
it stood, because a deputation that waited
on Higgs and himself approved of it. Some-
one who had an amendment exempting six-
penny picture-show tickets said the deputa-
tion was mostly J. C. Williamson and didn’t
represent the cheap picture-show people.
“Well, pass the thing as it stands,” said
Hughes,” and I will make inquiries. If I
find the deputation wasn’t representative of
the picture-shows I will then have the
amendment made in the Senate.” As Willy
Kelly pointed out, it’s a great idea to let
the man who would have to pay the tax
say whether it should go on or not. What’s
wrong with applying the idea to the income
tax?
You don’t get cold feet by training for it.
One Melbourne ice-cream firm —Mr. S.
Meyers is the head of it —has sent 16
employees to the Front, and that exhausts
its supply of eligibles.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cinema Star”
Criterion “The Land of Promise”
Royal “Just a Girl”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli Mcl utosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Dandies
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built”
Royal “Damaged Goods”
King’s “The White Slave Traffic”
Princess’s “Richard III.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia. St. Kilda The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olymtia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Where Are My Children?’
—•*.
A weird and wonderful entertainment
which Miss Kate Howarde introduced to
Melbourne at the King’s on Saturday night
emphasises the fact that Australian drama
may run in all shapes. “The White Slave
Traffic” is one of ’em. The optimistic
authoress-manageress has taken the title
of her show literally, so the heroine is a
harmless, frivolous Sydney girl who tangoes
at Manly by the Sea, and there excites the
unquenchable desires of a discolored panto
prince from “the East,” clad in a crumpled
white cotton suit and attended by an Evil
Shadow of mysterious nationality, who is
said to have Ice in his Veins. These two
gentlemen plot the abduction of the artless
tango maiden to India, and then inform her
that she will henceforth be known as The
White Slave. Fortunately she has the sym-
pathy and support of the penitent Magdalen
by whom she was decoyed. The sinner in
question seems to have been formerly
married to the man with the frozen blood-
vessels, and he still holds her in thrall by
promising to restore their deceased infant to
her arms. But when she finds that her
long-lost offspring is positively dead and
buried she turns traitress to her evil em-
ployers and persuades the poor White Slave
to play at being as mad as Ophelia. There-
fore Joy Arden, the White Slave aforesaid,
trips into the Seraglio Bahat with a bundle
of lilies that “life as if asleep along her
bended arm,” and when Abru Pahlan, the
discolored trafficker, applies tests to her
sanity she merely subdues his burning pas-
sion with an Ophelianic stare. Subsequently
the evildoers learn that the lively girl from
Manly is pulling' their legs, and then the
raging Prince chases Joy around the Serag-
lio Bahat, with intentions that are strictly
dishonorable, until her brother and. her best
boy come to the rescue. A most praise-
worthy stage struggle ensues, the seraglio
becomes the scene of an all-round wrestling
tournament and the floor is strewn with
baffled profligates. A fourth and final act re-
stores triumphant virtue to the same old
Manly. as before.
The drama, apart from its giddy bit of
plot, is a tissue of flirtatious trivialities,
dotted o’er with memories of pierrot vaude-
ville. The hero (A. Milroy) is understood
to be a noble squattocrat who has lost the
family estate and become a detective. He
doesn’t deal with any other case save that
of the abducted Joy, but he is suspected of
a natural instinct for picking up clues. For
the rest of the sinless characters there are
the uneventful brother (L. Carey) and a
comic-relief party (Elton Black) who occa-
sionally sings or shares a turn with a neat
little comedienne (Olive Sinclair). The
tinted slave-catcher and his cold, forbidding
Shadow are impersonated by Louis Vernon
and Fred Neilson. Miss Enid Bowman is
the sweet-voiced penitent ■who cherishes illu-
sive hopes concerning her baby, and Miss
Adrienne plays the girl that all the trouble
is about. Her voice, by the way, is not
sweet. There are streaks of pain in her
elocution and some of her hanging ringlets
are even less real than her prevailing air of
ingenuousness. But she puts up a capital
fight for her honor during the two rounds
of applause at the finish of the third act.
“The White Slave Traffic” has come to the
King’s with the intention of staying four
weeks. Next week it will be associated with
a matinee company of children, who are to
do their little best in the way of a revue.
Melbourne Majesty’s is given over for the
moment to rehearsals of the panto, which
comes due on Saturday. The advt. promises
a quite tremendous show containing 18
scenes, six people new to Australia, several
astounding novelties and frequent refer-
ences to “The House that Jack Built.”
Even a panto, must have a name to swear
by and a central idea to lean up against.
Last year it was “Mother Goose.” This
year the curtain rises on the alleged indus-
trial achievement of Jack —doubtless a nice
tall girl whose nearest relative is a red-nosed
apparition in skirts.
“The Land of Promise,” now at Sydney
Criterion, turns out to be well-advertised
Canada. Norah Marsh, a well-bred lady’s
companion who knows how to ring for tea
and arrange flowers, is first discovered in
deep mourning in the English household
where she has eaten humble pie for 10 years
at £3O per annum. Her old female tyrant
is dead at last, and she is waiting to hear
officially from the family solicitor that she
lias been left a promised £250 a year, the
prospect of which has held her to her awtul
job. But the old employer postponed put-
ting the amiable intention in writing; so all
the estate, goes to a selfish mixed double of
relatives —the reluctant mourners at the
little funeral. Thus the pie-eater’s dreams
of freedom and foreign travel dissolve, and
she is left refusing the cheap and sneering
benevolence of the other cat in black. Left
alone at last by the winners, she is raging
tearfully to an older friend in the companion
line and talking doubtfully of her farmer
brother in Canada when the curtain falls on
a scene of stuffy respectability.
* * * * *
Act 11. finds the lady’s companion in her
brother’s Canadian shack making things hard
for herself and awkward for her hosts by
turning up her nose at everything and every-
body, and giving it an extra tilt towards her
brother’s hard-working wife —an ex-waitress
who has a temper of her own and isn’t in-
clined to have sauce passed to her in her own
house. When the final row arrives Norah
practically proposes to her'brother’s farmer-
friend (whom she cordially detests), and he
agrees to marry and take her away to his
new selection, “because women are so scarce
and I always fancied an Englishwoman.”
On that basis they agree to partner up, and
Act 111. begins with the new firm’s entry to
the unfurnished shack. The nearest neigh-
bor drives them up, wishes them luck and
leaves them alone to make tea and trouble.
Norah slaps her prairie-bridegroom’s face
when he tries to make love to her. But
when the time is ripe for another interval
the healthy, casual brute holds the lamp aloft
and the bedroom door opens for a badly-
cowed bride to pass in. In real life they
would probably fight for a year or two and
then race each other to the divorce court.
But not in modern drama.
* * * #
Act IV. is filled with conventional last-
act sunshine. The fierce bride has made the
Brute’s shack clean and bright, and a fine
field of standing wheat is visible from the
door. Tlie Brute moons about apparently full
of gentlemanly remorse, and Norah’s brother
comes to call and report that a baby is
expected presently at his place. With him
is a young Londoner who is retreating to
the Strand at the pater’s expense to comfort
his Canadian-ravaged soul with a “slap-up”
dinner at the Ritz. Little Sister, happy as
a bird, welcomes both and sits down to hear
the news beside the table she has innocently
decorated with a deadly weed that is one of
the worst pests the Canadian farmer knows.
Big Brother has a letter for her from a Lon-
don lady who has a vacant dog-washing job
at £35 a year in a refined household, and both
he and the husband are amazed in turn when
she sneei-s at the offer. When it dawns
on her that the weed-infested crop will have
to be burnt and her husband go out odd-
jobbing for a living until next sowing, she
finally decides that she would rather go with
him than to the English dogs, and they are as
genuine a married couple as any employ-
ment agency could wish for when the
dramatic end comes.
Florence Rockwell, as Norah Marsh, the
salaried slave of female tyrants, gives some
very natural displays of bad temper ; in the
sugary last act she is less happy, artistically.
Consistent Eily Malyon puts one more fine
study to her credit as the shrewish waitress-
wife tormented in her own home by the
suspicion of condescension. Maggie Knight,
the worried old farmer’s wife, is welcome as
the only good-tempered female in the cast.
Beatrice Holloway makes a brief first-act
appearance as the detestable she-mourner
who exults over the disappointed companion
at the will-reading. Arthur Greenaway
seems natural as the she-mourner’s tamed
city husband ; so does Arthur Styan, as Big
Brother. Frank Harvey plays the clean-
shaved Canadian woman-tamer in gentle-
manly style and drops an occasional “h”
with cultured care, and Hugh Huntley
squeaks amusingly as the well-brushed young
Londoner. An interesting comedy very
fairly done.
It being the J.C.W. tradition that Mel-
bourne must get the first slice of panto.,
“The Cinema Star” will start to heliograph.
a Christmas message to the front stalls of
Sydney Majesty’s on Saturday. With, luck
it should be a merrier Christmas than we’ve
been used to since the war. There is a feel-
ing in the air that tlie dachshund has got his
tail down at last and that the German eagle
is learning arithmetic to find out how many
tail-feathers he has left. In the circumstances
the stay-at-home loyalist feels like going to
a show.
Bert Bailev throws open the doors of
Sydney Royal for the Christmas crowds,
having previously baited tlie stage with
“Just a Girl,” a Charles Garvice play which
is guaranteed to be cheery and bright and
good for tired feet.
With her bundles and her dog Sara All-
good intends to do the goodwill-on-earth act
on behalf of the Taits during the Christian
season. She is located at the Palace (Syd-
ney), and Saturday will see her commence
the good work under the olios of Peg o My
Heart. *
The Fuller pantomime at Sydney Opera
House this Christmas promises to be Aus-
tralian from heel to hairpad. There will not
be a single musical number that isn't the
work of an composer, and the
Australian authoress of “The Bunyip” will
direct the orchestra. Every scene is to be
Australian, ranging from the Jenolan Caves
to a gigantic corroboree with boomerangs
that hurtle over the Australian audience’s
heads and return to the scenes painted by
Australian hands. The producer is Aus-
tralian, and large quantities of Australian
girls will wear Australian-made dresses
which have been hand-painted by a Mel-
bourne-born artist. The Australian special-
ties will include something warm in the way
of big bushfires, and there will be a proces-
sion of the people who hav“ made Australia,
not forgetting the Sentimental Bloke and
his Doreen. .
“The Passing Show” (1916-17 edition-) i§
keeping Sydney Tivoli from looking like
Goldsmith’s Deserted Village. Sydney James
and Billy of the hinged mouth are the chief
performers, but dancing Madeline Rossiter
and cheery Gwen Lewis help with the good
work. One of the best turns on the list is
that of Degnon and Clifton, the quiet, casual
hand-balancers; but the light partner
shouldn’t cluck like a sick hen.
* *
The Dandies’ programme at the Garden
Theatre (Sydney) has been freshened by
Flockton Foster and Ada Bellfield’s Scottish
and Jewish turns. Nobody before has had
the temerity to bracket the original brother-
races. Yet Auld Lang Syne is merely the
three brass balls.
•As this family journal goes to press
Deacon Eslick is preparing to open the
doors of the White City Tabernacle (Syd-
ney), where if the wicked don’t cease from
troubling it’s their own fault.
* * -i- *
Christmas week at Sydney movies:—
Lyceum and Palace: “The Big Push,”
providing some splendid glimpses of the Somme
offensive when King George and. others don’t climb
into the eye of the camera; and “The Italian Army
on the Way to Gorizia,” views of the remarkable
scrapping in the Alps. Charlie Chaplin in “Behind
the Scenes” is the comedy feature at both theatres.
Hoyt’s : “The Power of Evil,” the moral of which
is that it doesn’t pay to be an hereditary millionaire
with an hereditary thirst ; “Little Miss Happiness,’
a charming' romance feature, Wm. Fox’s discovery,
June Caprice ; and the usual comedy screams.
To-morrow (Friday) is Melbourne’s last
opportunity of seeing “The School for
Scandal” interestingly played on exception-
ally cheap terms. Like all other work pro-
duced by Allan Wilkie, the famous old
comedy of 18th century sassiety mannahs is
excellent value for the money. A want of
“DAMAGED GOODS," AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Jimmy Atholwood
us a very much
concerned father.
The Doctor
( Stephen E.
Scanlan).
“breadth” in- the rendering of the 'principal
men parts, and a particular unfitness of
plump Miss Harvey for the character of
aesthetic Maria, are the only noticeable short-
comings in the performance. The highly-
unconventional Maria is a failure in all
respects, whereas the bucolic type of Sir
Oliver that Landor presents is an interesting
novelty. Everybody gets a chance in “School


h
w
&
YG
pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
m
DT
A
Swift & Company !Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
-"whisky.
V
Motor-cyclists' Overalls
Mud may splash shoulder-high and oil exude from
the engine, but your clothes could not be soiled
nor spotted if you wear these overalls. They are
fully protective.
Made of Brown Drill. Coat has two large
outside pockets, belt round body, special
wind-guard cuffs, all buttons detachable.
Trouser Overall covers whole of ordinary
trousers.
We pay postage.
Please state height, chest, waist and
inside leg measurements.
32/6
Men’s Outfitters,
309 &. 311 George St., Sydney
for Scandal,” and none are more satisfactory
than Dore, McMahon, Varna, Cosgrove and
Bellbridge in the more or less minor parts.
On Saturday the eo. reverts to Shakspeare.
Wilkie’s much-talked-of "Richard III.” will
offer his kingdom for a horse during the
approaching holiday season.
“Damaged Goods,” at Melbourne Royal,
continues to afford cynics the entertain-
ment of watching Henriette’s pa when
he discovers what his son-in-law has
brought into the family. The old man
makes a great show of righteous anger
and threatens to massacre the lad at
the earliest moment, though he casually con-
fesses under pressure that he has been no
better than his intended victim, only a bit
luckier. The ancient’s attitude is horribly
middle-classy, and demonstrates once more
that the greatest champions of virtue are
disused rakes, if it is reasonably safe to
attempt the hypocrisy. This incident in
“Damaged Goods” contains a line moral for
heavy fathers, and the author makes it so
plain that only tin' deaf can miss it.
The Follies, reappearing at Melbourne
Tivoli, are repeating their old-established
mannerisms with the help of fresh scenery
and truckloads of new clothes. Cannot
heads the disturbance as of old, and is the
same old asylum for lone and friendless
jokes. Weems’ ridiculous boots and Dark-
town countenance continue to be separated
by live feet of shapeless attire. Thelma
Kaye and Vera Pearce are still working
their dresses to exhaustion, while Welch’s
insobriety remains one of the distressing
ceremonials which the Follies apparently
cannot do without. The only new face is
that of “Florie,” a Noo Yark lady, who in
attempting to warble to young bloods in the
stalls shows that she cannot sing for Nuts.
Of the three-dozen items on the programme,
excluding four songs by Miss Sen-Mei, the
dances of the Yateses and little Jean Keith
are entirely satisfactory. The other
“specialties” amount to second-class vaude-
ville stunts requiring first-class personalities
to make them go.
The Dandies continue to get their share
of attention at St. Kilda (Vic.). Recent
moist weather somewhat affected attend-
ances, but a welcome jump in the tempera-
ture has caused a fresh influx of customers,
with the result that the cashbox is beginning
to look its old self again.
The combative energy of William Farnum
is the most-discussed subject among Hoyt’s
Melbourne followers this week. Bill is a
stousliing parson aching for punishment
in five reels of excitement called “Fighting-
Blood.” This film is exclusively screened at
Hoyt’s Bourke-street theatre, where “The
Wheel of the Law” is also in motion. At
Hoyt’s ©lyjnpia the last-mentioned item is
the cheese, an adaptation of Locke’s
“Jaffery” being the meat on the menu.
Showman E. J. Carroll has caught the pre.
vailing frenzy for social reform and is now
screening “Where Are My Children?” to
prove it. The picture, which is on view
at Melbourne Auditorium, professes to re-
veal how the hand that robs the cradle rules
the fashionable world. A swell abortionist
is the villain of the piece, and the hero is a
stern lawyer and amateur eugenist who sools
the Lor on to the malpractitioner, only to
discover that his own wife is the Doctor’s
favorite client. The film finishes with the
attorney and his missus facing one another
in a childless desert; but it also throws in
some scraps of Eternity with dim vistas of
the Unborn, apparently to further emphasise
the moral that a busy bassinet is the basis
of true happiness. The Rev. Carroll’s ser-
mon is to be delivered four times daily, and
the usual collection will be taken up at the
box office.
Adelaide shows are much as before, but
the King’s, long closed,, since the Fuller cir-
cuit moved into the bigger Majestic, is turn-
ing over in its sleep, and talking of what it
will do for home-made Australian drama
when it wakes at Christmas. Herbert
Myers, of the Royal, was Chief Marshal of
a pageant on Repatriation Day ; and school-
children so delighted a packed Exhibition
with a nursery-rhymes display that the
Premier says it must be repeated.
A cutting from a shrub at the grave of
Adam Lindsay Gordon, planted at Mount
Gambier (S.A.), where he lived some years,
failed to. grow, so another, a wattle, has been
got from the same spot and is doing well.
George Riddoch, a local squatter, has put up
a tablet alongside, and in unveiling it recalled
his close friendship with the poet. “A man
not easily approached,” said Riddoch. “A
sort of cold manner. But when yon got to
know him you found him a man of wonder-
ful capacity and with great consideration
for others.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Stargazer” : Houghton’s comedy, “Ilindle
Wakes,” produced at Melbourne King’s the
other night, is in many respects an ideal
Repertory play, but its Melbourne produc-
tion was ignored by the repertory crowd,
and the play was greeted by a typical King’s
Theatre audience, accustomed to melodra-
matic sentiment .and comic horseplay, with
the result that the entertainment was woefully
marred by unreasonable sniggering and
uncalled-for vociferation. As a battler for
the repertory idea of 20 years’ standing, I
begin to see only now how far-reaching the.
reform must be before we can attain happy
Satisfaction. The peculiar building is essen-
tial, the peculiar company is necessary, of
course, and then comes the task of securing
the peculiar audience. Here I am stuck.
How can we so draft the people as to be sure
of _ guaranteeeing the presence of only those
spiritually and intellectually adapted to enter
into the atmosphere of the excellent play?
“Vic”: “Ilindle Wakes * rings true. I
saw the big scene done in Melbourne Police
Court years ago. A girl sued her child’s
father for maintenance. He said he would
marry her. Bench: “Oh. that’s all right.
Let him marry the girl.” Girl (passion-
ately) : “It’s not all right! I will never
marry the man who deceived me. I only
want him to pay for his child !” The Bench
sat aghast at her fiery independence and
commonsense. But the seducer didn’t get
her.
Comedian Alfred Frith, the comic life-
saver of. “So Long, Letty,” who was re-
ported to have enlisted, now explains that
he is “the only surviving male relative” of
his family and—“l never actually enlisted.
It was’only a conditional enlistment. All
I did was to pass the doctor and that sort
ot thing.” In short, attended a kind of dress
rehearsal, and then, found, apparently, that
it wasn’t a play at all.
"Amos Kito”: Bitter comments have been
made about the gagging by Fred Patev, the
Moses of Allan Wilkie’s production of "The
School for Scandal.” But practically all
actors cast for Moses count on the license
to gag, and stage-managers encourage them.
By the way, the pomedie Franqaise (I’m
glad I’m writing it, not pronouncing it),
which is a sort of repository of the nation’s
classics, permits gagging. If I purchase
one of the comedies —say Moliere’s—with
stage directions, from the Comedie Frau-
Caise, I get the latest and best gags of the
comedians added to the original lines with-
out any extra charge.
“Mujik”: These educational films are,
. after all, the most delightful phase of the
picture business. A film, now showing in
Sydney gives _ the democracy an hour’s in-
struction in lingerie. The film depends for
its pull on the nightie and the undie, and
the other night it was pulling like a dentist.
Concealed in a plush-cover seat with a
packet of chewing-gum, the maid who pines
for the silk camisole and the lace-trimmed
necessary-commodity may see the wonders
produced by white-workers—can see them
hung up, and on, and round-about. Also
she can dream of how “lovely” it would
be to be inside them until it was necessary
to climb into something more gorgeous.
These exhibitions of needlework and going
to bed and getting up seem incomplete with-
out a few bathroom scenes; but that is of
course merely a critical commentary upon
the imagination of the producer.
“DAMAGED [?] AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Sidney Stirling, the Wife’s father, showing
signs of coming vengeance.
“Adelaide”: If ever there was a case of
the office seeking a man, it is the appoint-
ment of “Sammy” Lunn as spruiker at the
new Grand picture-theatre here. Mr. Lunn
would at any time rather talk than eat. He has
collected literally hundreds of pounds by pass-
:”,r round the hat for patriotic funds at pub-
lic gatherings. He talks in verse (or worse)
<*•s icMuiy as in prose. And now ho is paid to
stand at the door of the Grand and invite
inside you and your wife, the joy of your
life, your son and your charming daughter,
and the man who is going to court her; and
a delighted crown hangs round the whole
time. It is an ideal appointment.
“Kaniva”: “J.F.H.” (B.’ 7/12/TO) asks
what women Hamlets have been seen in
Melbourne. Miss Cleveland played the part
finely at the Theatre Royal in 1867 ; Mrs.
G. B. W. Lewis played it at the Bijou
Theatre; Rose Evans did it at the Royal,
and hers was excellent; Louise Pomeroy
was very successful at the Theatre Royal in
1881; and Louise Crawford was the last.
“J.F.H.”: The bad example of Australian
bishops who constantly cadge in London for
charitable contributions is infectious. Fritz
Hart has now issued an appeal for the
library in connection with the Melbourne
Music Club. Indifferent to the fact that
British composers get their bread by the sale
of their works, Hart audaciously makes a
shameless appeal to them to send him copies
of their “songs, instrumental pieces,' cham-
ber music, orchestral and choral works—in
short, music of every description.” By way
of stimulating British musical composers
into presenting free copies of their works,
he assures them that Melba is “taking a
warm interest in the scheme.” Which merely
makes it more shocking for Australia to
sponge on London at a time when London is
paying over Bs. a bushel for Australia’s
wheat.
“Glen H.”: “Surgical instruments sup-
plied by Messrs. ” is an announcement
on the Theatre Royal programme of “Dam-
aged Goods.” Nowanights half the pro-
gramme is liable to be occupied by thrilling
items of this description. Soon we may
expect to learn that “The lint placed on
Mr. Julius Day’s wound in Act 11. was
supplied by Messrs. Bubble & Squeak Pty.,
Ltd.”; and *“The fringe worn by Miss
Dorothy Darling is from the atelier of
Madame Whatshermoniker.”
Oswald Stoll’s latest catch for vaudeville
is Mark Hambourg, who is now shaking his
mane over a keyboard at the London Coli-
seum.
“Ancient Prompter” : Theatrical managers
in Fogland who tour the provinces, startling
the natives of country towns by billing
their plays “like a circus,” are bidden to
economise in that direction, too. “All resi-
dent and touring proprietors shall take steps
with a view to limitation of the excessive
printing used,” it is ordered. In short,
less paper on the walls and more in the
house.
“Row A” : If black cats bring luck, Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, should be safe for a
while. A shy and watchful one has
made a brief, unbilled appearance from “be-
hind” in the last few shows and temporarily
attracted the attention that is the leading
performer’s due. But (horrible thought!)
perhaps puss thinks “the bird” is about due
and turns up early to collect it?,
(Continued on page 26.)
Some interesting revelations were very
nearly made the other afternoon in the Vic.
Legislative Assembly, but the cat was pushed
back into the bag and drowned, as it always
is in such cases. Amendments to the
Venereal Diseases Bill were being consid-
ered, when Billson jumped up to say that
he regarded it as the Ministry’s sacred duty
to stamp out disorderly houses. There were
wealthy men who were receiving rentals
from Flossie-flais 100 per cent, higher than
would be collected from respectable tenants.
Whereupon Bayles interjected: “That’s not
fair, and not a fact either.” Billson turned
dramatically ( on the interjector. “If Mi*.
Bayles dared' him,” said he, “he would read
the names.” But the names were not read,
and although another member asked why
they should .be suppressed he was not
answered.
The Martins of Gawler (S.A.) had a
great name for nearlv half a century. Their
engineering works made locomotives and
mine-machinery for all parts of the conti-
nent, and a statue of, James, the founder of
the business, stands in the main street of the
town. His nephew and right-hand man,
John Martin, carried on the business for a
while after his uncle’s death. But mining
business fell off, and the Government found
it could make its own locomotives at Isling
ton workshops. So the co. passed into liquida-
tion ; and two Martin sons, though
thoroughly trained for carrying the works
on, went farming in Westralia. There John
Martin joined them, and has just died, a
disappointed man, at 72.
“Boswell”: The acquittal of W. W. Sie-
benhaar, Deputy Registrar-General of West-
ralia, on a charge of disloyalty moves me to
pray that no other writer may be tried 17
years hence for what he may be scribbling
to-day. That is what happened to Sieben-
liaar. lie was suspended by F. D. North,
Bigjolin Forrest’s brother-in-law, mainly
because he collected a few bob for the de-
fence of poor old Monty Miller (aged 85).
But this “charge” being too shadowy alto-
gether, the zealots cannoned off on to
“Dorothea,” Siebenhaar’s book of verses, and
made his rhymed sentiments on the Boer
War the basic motif. A detective was put
in the box to interpret “disloyalty” in 1916
by a book written in 1899, and it was re-
freshing to hear this “expert,” under Sieben-
haar’s thrusts, admit that history was a
sealed tomb to him. The accused was able
to 'show that both Lloyd George and G. F.
Pearce helds views identical with “Doro-
thea” at the time the verses were written,
and that North himself had supplied an
appreciation of “Dorothea” in 1909. The
prosecution gave it up then.
We don’t, as a rule, admit our age, but
Mrs. Jane Cocking, of Camberwell, having
been presented to Queen Vic. when her Gra-
cious was a young princess, and having voted
“Yes” at the Referendum, rises superior to
such foibles. When she was 99 she was
thrown out of a buggy and broke an arm and
a leg, but is now not much the worse for it.
Her father, Captain Gransden, commanded
the frigate Belle Poule in Nelson’s day; and
that’s how she came to curtsey to Victoria,
then, a girl of 17, when the princess visited
Woolwich attended by the* Iron Duke, Lord
Bloomfield and the Duke of Northumber-
land. Later she watched the coronation
procession, holding on to an officer’s sword
belt.
Brisbane City Council nearly choked with
righteous indignation the other day when it
discovered that a parson to whom it had
issued a permit to lecture in a movie hall
on the Sabbath had trampled on Bumble
law and sinfully screened a film. Bumble
threatens to go at the next offender with
the steam-roller. And that is more than
Bumble does when you ask him to smooth
the lump iu the middle of the highway.
ART IS LONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon the stage to find a place
Was Gubbin’s fond ambition,
He quite believed his style and grace
Would there gain recognition,
For once he’d, won a pencil-case
At Cow Flat Competition.
lie nightly bellowed “Denver’s Dream,”
With frenzied declamation,
And murdered “Lasca” in a stream
Of turgid recitation,
Until he heard tiie neighbors scream
Their wild appreciation.
At Cow Flat “evenings" he displayed
His talents, to perfection,
When he charged with the Light Brigade,
The pearl of his collection,
The jolliest people were dismayed,
And sobbed in deep dejection.
From Cow Flat down to Lrg-rope Creek,
11 is fame was wide extended,
And even out at Poddy Peak
His efforts were commended—
’Twas there he did “The Maniac’s Shriek” ;
The cockies thought, it splendid.
And when De Verc’s Dramatic Co. —
“Fast Lynne” the chaste attraction—-
Presented its unrivalled show
To Cow Flat’s stupefaction,
The morbid Dubbin felt a glow
Of gloomy satisfaction.
He sought the eminent De Vere,
And breathed his secret yearning;
De Vere said at the sixteenth beer
(A keen man, and discerning),
“For thirty quid I’ll star you here
Next month when I’m returning.
“We’ll give ’em ‘Hamlet’ in Cow Flat,
Unparalleled Sensation!
Dubbin the Moody Dane! Why, that
Will crown your reputation!”
Ecstatic Giibbin beamed and sat
In speechless exultation.
He wrote a cheque with eager pen;
De Vere was much affected,
And swore that Gubbin of all men
Was one he most respected.
Next morning ht the bank at ten
The cold cash he collected.
And Gubbin duly got his “part,”
With most minute instruction
In how to get it off by heart
In time for the production,
Which to the soulful realms of art
Would be his proud induction.
And so De Vere passed on his way,
Whilst Gubbin stormed and spouted,
And tortured “Hamlet” night and day;
And as he raved and shouted,
His sympathetic friends would say,
“This actin’s got ’im outed!”
The sanguine Gubbin still avows
That cruel fate prevented
De Vere from keeping solemn vows
With beer and art cemented;
He babbles Shakspeare to the cows,
And seems to be contented.
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


writ. Tinct
John Stranci Wi ntir's >
HfIIRFOOO
tf/fcarfublyljjidnt
Hair Grower
A CROWN OF BEAUTIFUL HAIR.
John S trange w„«
Marvellous Hair Growers.
Oily, for Dry Scalps - - 3/-
Non-oily, for Oily Scalps - 41-
Also other Toilet Preparations: Lakshini Skin Lotion, Lakshmi Skin Cream,
New Face Cream, Powder, Soan, Dental Cream, Perspiration Powder Creme
Marquise, Curative Ointment, Shaving Stick, etc., etc.; all obtainable from
Drapers, Civil Service, W. H. Soul & Co., etc., etc.
USED BY ROYALTY—Awarded Six Gold Medals-London, Paris and Rome.
SEE DEMONSTRATION NOW AT ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Send 2d. stamp for Sample of Soap or Powder to JOHN STRANGE WINTER (London,
Paris and Rome). Sydney Office: 32 Depot, 26 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“S. Pallida”: Anyhow, it is a fact that
since Brieux’s “Damaged Goods” was staged
in Melbourne Collins-street doctors have
had to deal with an increased number of
people who want to know whether they are
free of what most of the outwardly-nice
papers still call “the Red Plague.” Inci-
dentally, one grim local drama might have
furnished a plot for De Maupassant. An
engaged girl, with commonsense unusual in
one of her age and stage, asked her fiance
to undergo a medical examination and fur-
nish a clean bill of health, agreeing to do
likewise herself. The young man was no
prude, and he filled his part of the con-
tract with success. To the girl’s horror,
however, the blood test in her own case
gave a positive reaction. There is no reason
to suppose that the taint was other than
hereditary ; but the orange blossoms turned
to Dead Sea fruit, none the less.
* * * *
From a Light Horse man:—
They can say what they like about Australian dis-
cipline, but it will do me —and I’m fussy. We
charged right into sheets of machine and rifle fire
one day, and were so close up to glory that the
Turks were grabbing ai the bridles of the troop. It
was wheel and go then —all in terribly heavy sand.
I simply had to sing out: “Now, boys,"don’t kill your
horses!” At once they slowed up just as if they
were on the parade-ground! I tell you I was proud
to be leading them. They do .the most extraordinary
things. One of them who was hit, and hit badly,
was trying to catch a riderless horse in the middle
of hell when his own lot came along. His mates
carried him for miles across sand on a blanket
wrapped round a couple of rifles. Do it! They’d
do anything for one another. I have to grin when I
remember the pause before setting out on a tough
job, and my little effort at encouraging oratory:
“Now, then, C Troop, make a name for yourselves!”
And the plain, direct Australian reply from a large,
unshaven corporal: “You give us a blanky lead, and .
we’ll blanky well foller yer!”
* * * *
“Hen”: My military friend “Hr” (B.
7/12/T6) is out of step when he say that
“crucifixion” as a punishment is unknown
to Australian Army Regulations. In the
army it is usually referred to as “spread-
eagle,” and is part of the treatment awarded
to a man given No. 1 Field Punishment.
This latter sentence is rather rare in the
Australian army, perhaps because the
officers do not approve of it. But I Know of
one case -where it was ordered and carried
out. The treatment must not last more than
a specified time at a stretch, and the full
dose is of course limited.
* * * *
“The Old Soldier” is emphatic:—
“Crucifixion” is not a British army punishment
(B. 7/12/’IC). A search through the “King’s
Regulations” will show that no form of torture can
be lawfully inflicted on a soldier since'the “cat” was
abolished. Company and regimental officers can sen-
tence to extra drills, certain extra duties, fines and
forfeiture of pay for absence; but nothing in the
nature of physical torture can be ordered. Any
soldier in the British army would instantly insist on
his right to be taken “in front of the General” if
he were “crucified” or treated in any other unusual
or unauthorised manner, no matter of what offence
he was accused.
What are the facts? Half a dozen appar-
ently competent people write assurances that
the punishment of “crucifixion” or “spread-
eagling” is known to the Australian army,
as well as to the British. And the “Old
Soldier,” who has spent 70 years filling him-
self with army lore, is just as sure .that it
isn’t.
• * * *
“S.A.” : I was lying in hospital in Valetta
(Malta), fervently wishing for something to
fracture the monotony, when there entered
our ward the daughter of Governor Methuen
and a small boy with a vast heap of parcels
and printed matter. She reached my bed.
“And would you like to read these, my
good man?” she asked, handing me a Sexton
Blake detective story and Comic Cuts. I
said .1 wasn’t anxious, exactly. She pon-
dered, and then from amongst the parcels
she produced a substantial-looking one,
triumphantly dumped it on my bed and
sailed majestically on. The ward sur-
rounded me as with eager expectation I
undid the wrappings. It was a set of picture
blocks! She might have known that marbles
and tops were my favorites.
THE ONION OF THE GALLERY.
"His work's very strong!"
“Yairs —not to say rank!"
THE LAST BOOKMAKER MAKES THE LAST BARMAID HAPPY.
Mr. O’Dea president of the N. S. Wales Bookmakers’ Union, suggests that present bookmakers be
permitted to ply their trade till they die, as has been provided in various licensing laws with regard
to barmaids, no new ones being licensed. —Press item.
Should a jury ask questions? The point .
was discussed in the S. Aus. Criminal Court
when the usual girl under 16 had made the
usual shocking charges against a constable of
hitherto good reputation. When the evidence
on both sides had closed, a juryman sug-
gested that they (or he) might want more ;
if they could have it, might they retire and
consider what evidence they would like? It
took an informal conference of Judges to
tell him that, if he meant fresh witnesses, he
(or they) couldn’t; a jury had to decide on
the evidence put before it, and to go beyond
would be making it the prosecutor. But that
seems arguable, to put it mildly. It might
be making the jury the defender. Even the
Court didn’t seem to have much of an opinion
of the informal conference’s dictum, and
went very near to allowing the disputed
point when, at the request of the same bat-
tler, it let the jurors retire to consider what
further questions they would like to put to
witnesses who had already been called.
After taking an hour to decide, they had the
accused and his wife and the girl and a
doctor all in the box again. And then the
case fizzled out, the Judge advising that they
would not be safe in believing what the girl
had said.
“Beckom” : Our chaps raided a trench a
couple of nights ago, but all except one of
the Germans had either flown or been killed.
The solitary survivor met the party with
cries of “Nein, nein, kamerad!” “Nine be
” said the front Billjim. “It’s 10, and
you’re out.” And he was.
* * * *
The sins of the- father are visited on the
old woman —by the Defence Department. At
any rate, Mathews, M.H.R., alleges that the
Department deducts from the wives’ allow-
ances the fines inflicted on the absent hus-
bands. The prayer in many a warrior’s
household now contains an additional clause :
“And please keep father from being crimed.
Amen.”
* * * *
That was a dangerous experiment the
Brisbane passengers by the inter-State
steamer Canberra made when they under-
took to serve their own meals and make
their own bpnks, the stewards having
struck. It was recently stated in the Arbi-
tration Court that these servants are still
supposed to exist partly on tips, the various
rich steamship cos. preferring to throw some
of the burden on their customers rather
than pay their employees a decent wage.
After the successful Canberra experiment,
coastal travellers may expect to find the
practice carried a step further, passengers
being required to wait on themselves when
the first fierce blast of war-economy strikes
the fleets. The willing horse always gets it.
Again the resource of Billjim lias brought
him into conflict with the Army Act, the
Articles of War and Routine Orders. Bill
soon ascertained that his steel helmet was
useful in the preparation of tucker. Fol-
lowed this portentous notification :
Troops are reminded that steel helmets are issued
as a protection against shrapnel, and are to be used
only for that purpose, and not as a medium for
making porridge or stew.
There was an Australian artillery driver
once who used his “tin hat” to carry away
a setting of eggs. But that is. anothe:
Furphy, as Kipling would have said had In
thought of it.
* * * *
Too much rain in N. S. Wales has pro
duced the worse season for rust in wheat for
30 years, and in addition hail and storms
have knocked crops down wholesale. What
is worse, unsuitable weather continues, and
in many parts cocky can only perch on a
kerosene-box in the stable and curse fluently
while he watches the ceaseless rain, so often
longed for, but just now an unmitigated
curse. It is impossible to take the strippers
or harvesters into the paddocks and work
them. There are many out in the rain hope-
lessly bogged. Consequently men in the trade
are figuring that the yield, one time ex-
pected to be 60,000,000 bushels, will not be
more than 20 or 25 millions. Anything
like a two- or three-bag crop, six to nine
bushels, means that the sowing of the
next crop will be a tough problem. The
one bright spot in the gloomy outlook is
the sale not only of the current year’s
harvest, but also the large part of last
year’s that is left, to the British Govern-
ment at 4s. 9d. per bushel, f.o.b. Sydney,
delivery not later than June next. In the
circumstances it isn’t any too much for the
poor crop that will be harvested this year;
but it will mean a shilling a bushel or there-
abouts more than cocky had lately expected
for the balance of his 1915 bumper harvest.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Christians, awake ! Salute the happy morn !
(The night was quiet save for shot and shell.)
To-day on earth the Prince of Peace is born !
(Now, coves, it’s up to us to give ’em hell!)
Rise to adore the mystery of love !
(The cows shoot straight. Bill got it in the head.)
The Star of Bethlehem is bright above!
(We counted sixteen hundred German dead.)
Our herald angels with their pilots pass;
A rush of shrapnel screams along the sky....
Praise God, from whom all blessings flow —for gas!
It’s Christmas.... and we’ve only once to die.
Christians, awake! Salute the happy morn
With gifts of murder for a whole brigade!
If peace on earth is ever to be born,
It follows up the bursting hand-grenade !
N.s.w.
MARY McC.
A VACANCY FOR A GENTLEMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ACCORDING TO THE LANDLADY:
The cream of all things was his one request;
Living at leisure, sumptuously arrayed,
He would have nothing but the very best;
Price was no object, for he never paid.
ACCORDING TO THE LODGER:
Cash for a bed that shuddered sleep away!
Money for meals that flouted appetite!
Seeing how much she took me in by day,
I took myself (and luggage) out by night.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


gf
the Boot you
should wear
for rough work.
The “Surveyor’* Boot has been specially
designed to fill the need of men, especially in
the country, who feel the need of a hard-
wearing and at the same time comfortable
boot. Black chrome leather, tongues strongly
sewn in; double soles ; sprigged and finished
with rope-stitched welts.
POST FREE TO YOU. 21/- PAIR.
PLEASE STATE SIZE.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED BRISBANE.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon ■ 2/6
h la carte luncheon, from 1/6
Table d’hSte dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6.
Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
“Haka” : Add this chapter to the Book of
Coincidences. Two Maoiilanders, Bob Frost
and Joe Lockwood, were running a contract-
ing business at Northern Wairoa. Frost
was on the road to Whangarei when his
horse fell, and lie pulled-in at the hospital
with a broken leg. Later, Lockwood was
doing the trip to Whangarei on the same
nag, when it fell at the same place, and lie
arrived at the hospital with a duplicate of
Frost’s accident. They were both attended
by the same nurse and the same doc. One
enlisted with the 3rd Reinforcements, the
other with the sth. Both were hit, and met
on the boat coming back to Maoriland. I
shouldn’t have bothered mentioning these
details but for the fact that in a recent land
ballot Lockwood and Frost drew adjoining-
sections.
* *• * *
The leading episodes of a year in the
life of a fishmonger :
Three trawlers imported by the Government of
N. S. Wales.
P.N.’s exported to pay for them.
Holman orates about cheap fish for democrats.
George Black appointed Minister for Fish.
George has his photo, taken opening an oyster.
Trawlers commence to catch fish.
Ministry gives loud cheers, appoints numerous
officials, opens shops, and sends for the reporters.
Strike on trawlers.
, G. Black outlines vast scheme of fish distribution
by fleet of ice-waggons.
Strike fixed up.
Auditor-General yells that accounts are in an
awful muddle.
Strike on trawlers.
Discovery that taxpayers are losing £2OO a week
cn the hsu business.
Strike settled.
Loud noise about the advantages of a fish diet for
the multitude.
Captains, mates, engineers, firemen and crews of
trawlers cease work.
Trawlers tied up for another rest.
Auditor-General sends for the documents.
L'Esvoi.
“At a meeting of the P.L.L. it was decided that
Mr. G. Black be expelled from the Labor movement.”
* * * *
“Murkah”: In the matter of insanitary
drinking methods (B. 16/11/T6) the vari-
ous Government Railway Departments are
the worst offenders in Australia. The
dingy-looking iron drinking-mugs chained to
the station tap-stands are never thoroughly
cleaned. The occasional swill with cold
water is of no real use, though comforting
to the eye. If a pubkeeper took as little
interest in the cleanliness of his drinking
vessels as the Railway chiefs do, he would
find himself in holts with the police. The
easiest way out is to scrap the mugs alto-
ANOTHER RUMOR.
“I hear Scotty walloped you down at the
bridge.”
“Don’t you believe it, me lad — I’ll fight
Scotty all day and all night for a pound
a week an’-me tucker.”
gether and introduce the sanitary jet foun-
tains. These were installed some time ago
at Sydney Central Station. But there the
good work ended. At Strathfield or Bendigo
you meet all the old-established germs that
have been driven out of town. A Yankee
improvement on the jet is the fitting of a
wire mesh around the basin, which prevents
any chance of the careless drinker’s mouth
being placed on the tap.
COMPLETING HER COLLECTION.
PEGGY: “People think it is awfully good of her to marry him. He has an artificial arm
and an artificial leg.”
BETTY (sweetly): “Yes, about the only artificialities she hasn’t got herself.”
“Hassan”: “Adelaide” (B. 7/12/Y6)
speaks about capital punishment for rape.
In the course of his argument, with which,
in the main, one must agree, he classes rape
as a lesser crime than murder. With this
I cannot agree. De Quincey says that mur-
der, in some instances, is a fine art. I
don’t go so far as that; yet murder may
be a most meritorious action in certain
circumstances, and rape never is. The
murder of a politician is a mere peccadillo
when one considers the
vast amount of good it
may do. It would be a
venial offence to murder
some actors. The Aus-
tralian who says “Sure,
kid!” and “Some girl,
believe me!” is better
dead. On the other
hand, no woman is
bettei* for having been
outraged. It is a more
cowardly and less ex-
cusable crime th a n
murder, apart from its
consequences. One of
our greatest objections
to the German is the
frequency with which he
committed the crime in
the countries he devas-
tated. Cold-blooded mur-
derers should be hanged.
And in bad cases of rape
(for there are degrees;
sometimes the “rape”
charge arises from the
girl’s conscience) the
rope is as good as any
other method. An ex-
cellent system of meet-
ing the natural reluct-
ance to hang a man on
the word of a hysterical
flapper would be that
adopted in America,
where a juty can bring
in a verdict of murder
in the first or second
degree. “Rape in the
first degree” would fit
the hempen collar round the outrager of
little children and young girls, while “rape-
in the 17th degree” would lead to a paternal
admonition from the Judge that “you two
foolish young people should get married.”
The trouble is that the law lacks elasticity.
A delightful bit of evidence was given in
a Melbourne suburban court case the other
day. Sikes was accused of battering his
wife with a frying-pan, and Mrs. Smith, from
next door, was in the witness-box, giving her
version of the recent career of the happy
couple. “Once he ’it ’er over the ’ead with
his shovel,” she said. “Another time I seen
him kick ’er insenseless. Last time he took
his. ’ands an’ feet to her proper; but when
he saw ’er next mornin’ with her fice all cut
up an’ her nose broke, he forgive her every-
think.”
It was raining heavily in Melbourne the
other afternoon, and a' respectable woman,
wanting to get out of the wet, drifted into
the House of Reps, and took a seat in the
Strangers’ Gallery. An affable gent, sitting
beside her started a conversation. He repre-
sented that he was a prominent M.H.R., and
his name duly impressed the lady. She con-
fided to him, amongst other things, that she
had a son at the Front and was much con-
cerned about his welfare. The prominent
politician was most sympathetic and assured
the anxious mother that he would introduce
the matter to Senator Pearce. Then he had
to go away to save the country, and the lady
found that £l6 and a diamond ring had gone
TIME WAS OUT OF JOINT.
HENRY'S WIFE: “My gracious, Henry, what-
ever are you doing?”
H ENRY: “Settin’ the shun-dial, m’ dear.”
too. The member whose name the spieler
used is, of course, indignant. He and his
colleagues would scorn to take money from
the public in that fashion. There is a right
and a wrong way of doing these things.
The hand of Mars has been laid heavily
upon the black coats in Maori land. The
first ballot 'under the Military Service Act
resulted in 14 parsons, two Starvation Army
officers, a home missionary and a travelling
evangelist being called up. There are no
statutory exemptions, but Defence Minister
Allen has stated that bishops and heads
of denominations will be permitted to apply,
as though they were employers, for exemp
tion for ministers under their control.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Our own men back from Gal-
lipoli have been the. keenest in protesting
against the idea of the stay-at-home Aus-
tralian that they did everything that was
done there. They did enough for honor. But
it is useful to note the last books on the
war by Wells and by the American Richard
Harding Davis. Each refers to Gallipoli
in passing—Davis was just across the way,
at Salonika-—and it does not occur to
either of them to mention the Australians
at all.
The pooi'-box, reminder of Hold Hingland,
with its work’us and its beadles, is to be
abolished as far as Russell-street (Melb.)
Court is concerned. In future no more
drunks will be “discharged on placing half
a sovereign in the poor-box.” Police Com-
missioner Sains-
bury, after dis-
missing a peculant
copper who trifled
with the box, gave
instructions that
no John is to have
anything to do
with the handling
of money, and tren-
chantly observed :
“The practice of
discharging pris-
oners by practically
compelling them to
submit to being
fleeced rather than
convicted is too
unwholesome, as
well as too unlaw-
ful, for this De-
partment to have
anything to do
with.”
- “Chevron”: The
coolness of the
boys who stood to
attention on the
tilting decks when
the Austral ian
transport South-
land was torpedoed
last year on her
way to Gallipoli,
is not a matter of
written record
only. Lieut-
Colonel Hutchin-
son, O.C. of the
21st, who has just
returned to Vic-
toria on furlough,
having been
shaken up by a
shell, has a photo-
graph which shows
the steady ranks of
brown drawn up
to wait developments. The boys themselves
were cool enough; but what of the man
who could take a snap on the off-chance of
finding a dark-room in Paradise!
THE RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A terrific storm flooded the trenches yesterday.
Some of the raindrops seemed as big as half a
crown.— Soldier’s letter.
The rain it falls, from west to east,
Where grim War makes its vulture feast;
In drops as large as half a crown,
Incessantly the rain comes down.
But greater things than rain will fall
Where battle holds its carnival;
As shrieks from brothers slain arise,
Rebellion shines in many eyes,
And fnutters, in a vengeful breath,
’Gainst thrones that build their power on death,
Intent to see, when chaos frowns,
The fall of things as large as crowns!
The mists of rain are blown and torn;
A spirit old, but newly born,
Breathes through war’s shrouding coverings
And threats the sway of Warring kings."
Man, driven forth by State and throne
To fight in battles not his own,
Sees, surely rising, after all,
His triumph come. The reigns they fall.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


PEACE PROPOSALS.
It is now announced that the German Note asks that the belligerents shall at least meet and talk it ove r.-Cable.
‘Kiss Cocky. You won’t? Well, please bellow while I get my breath.”


NOT ENOUGH TAIL.


If you’re particular about what you drink make
sure you get Thorne’s Whisky—in the black square
bottle. It's the spirit that particular men particu-
larly like. Its subtle, delicate flavor —invariably
’mellow, smooth and satisfying—makes it very accept-
able to a discriminating man. The perfect quality
has been maintained for over 80 years.
Try THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[1
Grey Hair —Home
Remedy.
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hau-
ls not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want it.
To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has oniy
to get from -the chemist two ounces of con-
centrate of tammalite and mix it with three
ounces of bav rum. Apply to the haii with
a small sponge for a few nights and the
greyness will gradually disappear. xtus
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula.— Advt.
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
v-earing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
M. tVie 4
00 Mb*
*
/z
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Milner, who is a member of Lloyd George’s
inner Cabinet, was originally Milliner, his
father having been the lecturer in English at
the University of Tubingen, which Nietzsche
refers to as “the home of Swabian liars.”
When Milner was seven the father received
a call to Oxford University, and _ there
brought up in a hotbed of Imperialism,
"His mother was an Irishwoman engaged,
'--young Milner grew up a British Imperialist,
before her marriage, in teaching.
A Melbourne University highbrow lectured
on Swinburne and his poetry in a suburban
town hall lately, his Worship the Mayor in
the chair. His Worship dozed his way
through the lecture. It was what a corres-
dence-school reporter would call “a thin
audience, with a sprinkling of the fair sex.”
In moving the usual vote of thanks, the
Mayor added his quota of praise to Mr.
George Swinburne, who had done so touch
good as a member of the Inter-State Com-
DOMESTIC ECONOMY:
"Fred made me give up cigarettes when we
got married —said it.was too expensive.”
“The brute —just like a man!”
"Oh, he isn’t! The dear buys me tons of
chocolates to keep me from smoking.”
mission. “Also, look what ’e did for Haw-
thorn when ’e was its member.” Turning
to the lecturer, his Worship, with dignity,
said he was sorry there was not a better
attendance, and, as a reward, if the Pro-
fessor called round in the morning the Mayor
would be pleased to show him the new city
destructor.
]fc. S. MaeDermott, -who passed out the
other day in Sydney at 48, was the author
of “MacDermott’s Manual,” which every
N.S.W.. gent, one uses to guide him through
the mazes of Land Titles Office practice.
MaeDermott, who was himself a certificated
conveyancer, had been an official of the
department for many years, and was
Deputy Registrar-General at the time of his
death.
Coincidence has been working liis long
arm pvertime again. On Friday afternoons
the kids at the Diamond Creek (Vic.) State
School write letters to soldiers at the Front,
and a while back Lindsay Pass addressed
one “To a lonely soldier somewhere in
France.” The postmaster at the other end
handed the letter to a casual Billjim who
hadn’t got anything by that mail. He was
the kid’s own father.
THE FINISH OF THE ARGUMENT.
THE LADY: “And what's more, Marcus
’Eaery , don’t yer think that just because
we ain’t got conscription yer can lord it
over me.”
The first ballot for men under the Maori-
land Military Service Act sprang some sur-
prises. In Christchurch the president of the
Conscription Repeal League was drawn first
pop. A telegraph-operator on the Dunedin
line, who was, taking the list at a furious
rate, had the privilege of hearing one string
of dot-dashes spell out his own moniker. And
a cocky who recently told the Red Cross
ambulance collectors that lie was unable to
contribute as he had just expended £21,000
on a property for his son, found that young
man bagged.
Tommy Walker, formerly M.L.A. for
Northumberland in the N. S. Whiles Parlia-
ment, lately received the King’s permission
to be Honorable for the remainder of his life.
This is a reward for services as Attorney-
General of Westralia. Sixteen years ago it
would have sounded like a cruel joke.
Tommy, down and out, was just then being-
helped' to the West by his old political
friends— -more to get rid of him than any-
thing else. ■ Ilis recovery, followed by. his
study for and admission to the Bar when he
was already middle-aged, is one of the most
creditable performances .any man could put
up.
Frederick Goldsmith, who has worn the
Anglican gaiters at Bunbury (W.A.) since
1904, has given notice that he will take
them off next February. Increasing deaf-
ness and sciatic twinges make him realise
that he is not as young as he used to be, and
he reckons it a Mir thing to make way for
a shepherd who can round up the stragglers.
Goldsmith came from the Cold Country in
ISBB as Dean of Perth (W.A.), and started
bishing 16 years later, when Bunbury diocese
was formed. He is one of the four Anglican
bishops in the Commonwealth who are game
to wear their mitres in public, the others
being Trower, of North-West Australia (his
probable successor), Feetham. of N.Q., and
Halford, of Rockhampton. The rest use
their mitres only on their notepaper and
their spoons. Goldsmith is a better Aus-
tralian than many native-born, and for over
a quarter of a century has plugged away
trying to persuade Australian Anglicans that
their church has grown up now and should
have its own name and manage its own
affairs, instead of calling itself a foreign
institution (“the Church of England in _Aus-
tralia”) and hanging on to the Archbishop
of Canterbury’s apron strings. The demo-
cratic and “High Church” States —W.A., Q.
and S.A. —support him, and Vic. and Tas.
look kindly at his scheme; but N.S.W. is
the nark State, as usual, and has so far
blocked the change on the ground that Aus-
tralians are too ignorant and shiftless to
manage their own religious affairs, and that
to stand alone would be “disloyal ”to Mother
England.
John Farrell, of White Cliffs, is the
biographer:—
Last Monday was marked by the decease at Yancannia
station (N.SAV.) of the oldest aboriginal—los was
her reputed age, but as there was no bonus in her
time her mother was careless about registering the
proof. She was known as Granny Mullins ; her abo.
name sounded something like Murra-gurra-wurra.
She remembered the first white man to die in this
district —Poole, with Sturt’s expedition, 1844-5 —and
was present when he was buried. She then had a
piccaninny as big as herself. Assuming that she was
30 then, it would put her past the century. She
looked it. She had a thick grey beard covering the
greater part of her. face, and when allowed to grow
it was of the Dundreary pattern. She never
learned English, but was fluent in abo. Blind for
the past three years, she never lost her spirits, and
enjoyed a joke till the last sundown. Her appetite
never forsook her either, and Yancannia station saw
that she never wanted her one meal a day, which
lasted from morning till night.
Laurie Abrahams, tobacco-manufacturer
and many other things, who passed out in
Melbourne the other day after much
unmerited suffering, was the kindliest friend
the Melbourne artist has had. He was not
only a lavish buyer; he was always ready to
give liberal help to any art object that
chanced along. Often the object manifested
small gratitude after the first burst of
thanksgiving. He went so far as to indulge
several Melbourne artists in European trips
for the benefit of their education —in a few
instances with very satisfactory results to
the artists. One of these Abrahams met at a
picture function on the occasion of a return
trip. The painter was very, very cold. The
patron bore this pleasantly, but eventually
trapped the artist in a corner, and whis-
pered : “Do not be under a misapprehension,
.Chrome, old fellow. Even if you are polite
to me, I shall not expect you to pay me
back.”
Killed in action in France, Lieut. Thomas
Storie Dixson, of the Coldstream Guards
and the old-time Sydney tobacco manufac-
turing family. Dixson, who was a B.A. of
Sydney and stroke of the Uni. eight-oar
crew of a few years ago, was on a pleasure
trip in the U.S.A. with his wife and chil-
dren when the Lusitania was sunk. The
news made him itch to give Bill the Baby-
killer something of what was coining to him,
and he sailed for England by the first
steamer and enlisted in the ranks. Subse-
quently he was transferred to an officers’
training-scho.ol, got his commission, and was
in the thick of it for a little over a year.
John Blyth Hayes, the Speck’s Minister
of Lands and Works, wears a worn and
worried look pretty permanently these times,
and it has fitted him closer and closer every
succeeding week of his six or eight months
of office. Only a year ago he was a cheer-
fully irresponsible farmer who seemed to
regard politics as a sort of perpetual joke.
But his sudden
and unexpected
ele v a tion to
office as one of
the “Liberal”
team strangled
his blithesome-
ness and spoiled
his beauty. Also
it has tipped his
tongue with as-
per i t y where
formerly wa s
honey. A man
who feels it his
dlity to take
himself and his
office seriously
ought never to
accept the port-
folio of • Works
anywhere at the
end of a boom —
least'of all
i n Tasmania,
where the de-
mand for roads
and culverts is
in excess of the
supply always.
J. B. HAYES,
M.L.A., Tas.,
Minister of
Lands and
Works.
The curse of riches lies heavy on the Mel-
bourne (Collins-street) Independent'Church.
Depledge Sykes, who came in lofty hopes
from Adelaide, has just resigned, following
the disgusted and deluded Englishman
Richards, who succeeded £. £. Bevan. The
conventicle wallows in Prormntv: but that
won’t satisfy earnest soul-fishers of the
Richards and Sykes kidney.
Died of wounds received at the Sotnme,
Captain Ralph Kite, of the Oxford and
Bucks Infantry.. Kite was a Tasmanian,
born at Hobart,' where his father was Dean
of the Anglican Cathedral till last year, lie
was an only son.
WOW IT’S DONE.
THE MAIDEN: “Just to think, twice Lord
Mayor! Honwever did you manage it?”
THE MEAGHER: “Well, when I was young I
read about ‘Turn Again’ Whittington,
thrice Lord Mayor of London, and so
I just keep on turning."
A Svdney man who figured in the first
verse of the Gallipoli epic got back last week
on a hospital ship with two stripes on his
arm. He is E. A. Roberts, stretcher-bearer
of “the 2nd. Two days after the Landing
someone noticed that a few of the huddled
figures on the beach were moving, and succes-
sive pairs of stretcher-bearers tried to rescue
them with the help of the guns of the fleet.
But Turkish snipers kept dropping the
rescuers, until Roberts and Stan Carpenter,
of Newcastle (N.S.W.), got to work and
brought in five wounded men to the dressing-
station. The Anzacs reckoned it was worth
a D.C.M. apiece; but the decorations neyer
arrived. Carpenter later won and got his at
Pozieres.
A draper, a Methodist and an ex-member
of Parliament, but a good sport and a useful
citizen, was W. P. Brownell, one of the firm
of Brownell Bros.,'about the biggest soft
goods dealers in the Speck, who passed out
the other day, aged . r >4. In his day he was a
fine cricketer and footballer and a first-
class tennis-player. He leaves three sons,
all at the Front.
Captain Stanley Hunter, wild obtained
leave from the Vic. Mines Department to go
to the Front, visited the cathedral city of
Canterbury while he was briefly absent from
the eternal dread fulness. This is how the
boss archbishop's home town strikes him : “I
did Canterbury, and the simple-minded souls
in that quaint old town did me. They have
learned the golden rule that all Australians
are s.quatters; that all squatters are mil-
lionaires ; and that all* millionaires are
fools.”
Lino Gattorna, who died last week in
Adelaide, was an unusual kind of hotel-
keeper. As a youth in Italy lie took up
chemistry and mineralogy at Verona Uni-
versity, and continued his study in Ger-
many. Then lie somehow found himself
handling pick and shovel at Broken Hill in
the early ’9o’s, after which he “found him-
self” in the other sense, and pushing from
one pub to another became almost the best-
known Bung in Adelaide. He was only 46
at the end.
Two girls claim to be the first to ride.right
round the coast of Kangaroo Island (S.A.),
Thqy are the daughters of the lighthouse-
keepers at Cape Borda and Cape Willoughby,
and they took' a fortnight over it. The roads
are awful, and round the "back” (or south
side) of the island there are none at all.
Will Dyson’s exhibition, which began in
London, has since been to all the large pro-
vincial English towns, and is now on its
way to Paris. The set of lithographs which
were considered the finest pictures of the
show, have been purchased by various public
institutions —British Museum, South Ken-
sington Museum and Basle Museum (Swit-
zerland) among the rest. A selection of the
cartoons will go to the Australian Common-
wealth, along with Dyson’s other records of
the war.
CLEANING UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The N. S. Wales Government will ask a confer-
ence of Premiers to agree to tlie abolition of State
Governorships.”
Out on its purple and astonished ear
The wreckage goes!
The cocked hat which right-thinking folk held dear
No longer shows
Its ancient shape where patriots congregate.
The long jest ends. Reform has wiped the slate
Of one more figure-head that lingered late
To mouth and pose.
The useless thing] the thing with brand untrue,
Is killed and done.
Pale shows and shams no more their youth renew.
The web is spun.
We see. We know. Our hands are strong to smite.
The cocked-hat goes mirth-hurtled through the night;
And more shall follow in its path all right
Now we’ve begun !
What’s next? Proscribe for death the biggest fraud?
No task we burke.
Bring forth the sham to meet the cleansing rod
Where’er it lurk.
Who comes? No king with sceptre in his hand,
No gilded mummy on its mouldered stand,
But this large thing that wears the Labor brand,
And will not work!
N.S.W.
C. O. M.


fS
L_
a
mk
m
*
i
m
m
m
mm
m
m
MK
Vs.-:: A
8
m&m
l
iitt
m
mm
i
i
''K\ l
M
USTYOU HAVEASUIT OF CLOTHES
AT A MOMENT'S NOTiCEP—WELL, HERE IT IS
With Xmas but a few days distant, the men whose clothing needs are urgent, as with many men they are, will welcome
and appreciate the manifold advantages of a purchase here at any time, on any day. For he or they, the one man or
the many, will find in “Austral” Apparel Ready-to-Wear an exceptional character and high standard of quality, alike
in fabrics and workmanship and the varied range of pleasing styles. But the feature most men value most of all
is the comparative ease and absolute certainty with which a satisfactory fitting is secured. If you need to, be advised
and make the purchase right away.
“Austral” Two-piece Summer Suits--- —: Ready to Wear.
Men’s Flannel Sac and Trousers only, English-made, in light medium shades of plain' Grey and light Grey Striped Fabrics. Coats
are 2- and 8-button styles, with seam and vent back, and the Trousers have side and hip pockets, side straps and belt loops, and
permanently turned-up bottoms. Two qualities, 30/-, 357-
Similar Styles in better qualities, in plain, light, medium and dark Grey shades of Flannel, 42/-; also plain or stripe Grey Flannel,
45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-
Men’s Mercerised Cotton Washing Sac and Trousers only, in Tussore shades, 18/6, 23/6, 25/6, 29/6. Also in Smart Stripe
Designs, 25/6, 29/6.
Men's Assam Silk Sac and Trousers only, 45/-, 50/-, 55/- Men’s Plain Holland Sac and Trousers only, 22/6.
%
m
amtw llli
k
* I
EEWBT!
484(d 490 GEORGE 5T
3 fo 17 ROYAL ARCADE
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS PLEASE NOTE.
Country Customers, in ordering, will ensure a good-fitting
Suit if the chest measure (over vest), waist measure (under
vest), inside leg seam measure (from fork to heel of boot)
and height are given.
rf/" I
/ V
v i
ir%
New Branch Store at 304 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
%
2 to
M H
Ver yfKi
vS Bo^,0r
MS 3
MS
8
1
8- fV-^t
484 b 490 GEORGE 5T
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCAPE


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire >
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON- 3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE —75 King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PTG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILIOIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Ass’n
352 George Street, SYDNEY. Limited
Transacts Life, Endowment, Personal and General Accident Business.
Life Assurance Po icies contain Disability and Hospital Benefit Clauses.
Reliable and Capable Travelling and Local Agents required throughout the Commonwealth.
S. P. WOOD, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
An important banking amalgamation is
projected and, having been unanimously
approved by the two Boards, will be sub-
mitted to the respective shareholders, pro-
bably next month. The concerns interested
are the North Queensland and the Royal of
Queensland. Circumstances are altogether
in favor of the amalgamation; The
Bulletin sees no single point against it.
Bo far as country branches are concerned
there is at present hardly any overlapp.ng.
Later on, however, as the banks grow, they
are bound to get further and further into
one another’s territory, which will mean
duplication and unnecessary expense. In
Brisbane, where both head offices are, there
is duplication and unnecessary expense
already. Outside Queensland the amalga-
mation will bring strength to both. For
various reasons the Royal has had
no branch in Sydney or Melbourne, the
financial centres of Australia ; and that has
at times been felt to be such a drawback
that one of the Sydney trustee cos. was
appointed an agency for the receipt of
deposits—an unsatisfactory arrangement, of
course. The North Queensland has a very
vigorous branch in Sydney, and one of more
recent date in Melbourne. But it is a small
bank; and small banks are heavily handi-
capped when they go out to compete for
business.
The amalgamation will give the Royal a
chance to do something which it ought to
have done long ago, and which it could not
do now, on its own account, without some
risk. It got into the usual trouble over 20
years back, and it did not write off nearly
enough capital to wipe out the losses. One
result has been that, like the City Bank in
Sydney, it has had to struggle to make the
unprovided-for. losses good out of current
profit. And because 20 years ago, at any
rate, it did not have assets to represent
much more than half its capital, it had also
to struggle to pay a dividend on this non-
existent money. In other words, when it
could have paid 5 p.c. on its actual intact
capital, it was paying 21 p.c. on twice as
much, half of it non-existent. Naturally the
fact that the bank was paying a very poor
dividend only made the struggle harder.
Hence, for the past half-year, after over 20
years of battling, it was only able to
pay at the rate of 44 p.c. p.a. And that, of
course, meant that the shares are at a heavy
discount in the market. Perhaps it shouldn’t
matter what the shares are worth. But it
does, because a bank lives on credit, to a
great extent,' and when the dividend is very
small or the share values very low the public
is always inclined to suspect that something
is wrong and be nervous about it. And no
more is necessary to hold a bank back, no
matter how solid its foundations or how care-
fully it is managed.
The nominal capital of the new bank will
be £1,000,000 in 100.000 shares of £lO each ;
what the issued capital will be will depend
on the final valuation of the assets, which is
now almost complete. It is to be hoped that
the pruning-knife will be used wherever it is
necessary, and that the capital will be sub-
stantially under rather than over the value
of the assets. That will make it possible for
the new bank to pay an attractive dividend
-—say, 7 p.c.—for a start. A small dividend
is no good as a business-getter for any bank.
The new concern will have the benefit of the
combined knowledge and experience of the
two Boards (which consist of only three
men each). It is proposed that general-
manager Denny Day, of the Royal, who is in
very bad health, shall retire on a well-earned
pension; and general-manager Lees, of the
North Queensland, will take the same posi-
tion in the new bank.
■* * * *
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association, Ltd. (Sydney), which began
apparently with £BO6O of preliminary exes.,
or anyway showed that much on the issue
of the first accounts: —
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
Oct., £ 8,060
1913 .. £10,219 £289 £18,213 16,343
1914 .. 17,288 866 28,473 28,394
1915 .. 28,663 1169 29,689 30,589
1916 . . 56,978 4790 44,220 22,621
The deficit is the amount of capital not
represented by visible assets. Put it this
way. The book value of the assets is
£56.018. Deduct liabilities (exclusive of
liabilities under contracts). £3294. That
leaves £52,724. The share capital is
£75,345; and the difference between that
and the net assets is £22,621. But observe
that the liabilities allowed for here are
exclusive of under contracts. The
co. has been in business four years and has,
so it says, “written over £1,600,000 of Ordi-
nary business.” Against those policies a
considerable sum ought by this time to have
been accumulated. How much this actuarial
liability amounts to it is impossible to tell
from the accounts; but an investigation is
promised at the end of the current year.
Until then all that can be said is this. The
office has so far spent £31,608 for which it
has no tangible assets; and it has £BOB7
accumulated towards meeting liabilities
under policies, whereas the actuary will
probably say that by this time the accumula-
tion should be £25,000 or more. That would
mean that about £48,000 of the shareholders’
capital has thus far been spent in securing
the business, and is not represented by any-
thing else.
The progress of some of the figures—of a
good many of the figures, in fact- —is djuite
satisfactory. The business in the Ordinary
department lias moved this way —
Policies Issued. Sum Assured.
1913 .. 1029 £291,300
1914 .. 1650 325,925
1915 .. 2739 432,060
1916 . . 3290 609,030
And the expense rate is moving the right
way, too. But there is still too much of the
cheap-jack about the co.’s methods. For
instance: —•
Considering the large amount of Ordinary business
written since the inception of the association, viz.,
over £1,600,000, and that we have now completed
our fourth financial year, the mortality rate continues
highly satisfactory and demonstrates the care exer-
cised in the risks accepted.
It; isn’t the amount of business written that
matters ; it is the amount that stays on the
books, and apparently there isn’t anything
like £1,600,000 in force. The first-year pre-
miums of the business written in 1913
totalled £10.086. The renewal premiums
actually collected in 1914 totalled only
£4316. The first-year premiums of the
business written in the three years 1913-4-5
totalled £37,632. The amount actually re-
ceived in renewal premiums in the year
ended October 3.1, 1916, was £20,177. And
as the renewal premiums no doubt include a'
considerable amount of war loading (an
extra 10 p.c. is ' charged on policies issued
since the outbreak of war if the holders pro-
ceed on service), it seems that, even makings
allowance for the policies that have become
claims, barely one-half of the policies that
are got are kept. That experience isn’t
cheerful, especially in view of the abundance
of money during the last year. The best
efforts of tlie management should be directed
to the improvement of these figures.
The co. has done the right thing in drop-
ping fire business: it now merely “acts as
agents for a fire co. at a liberal rate of
commission, whereby a profit is made on all
this class of business secured.” The revenue
account for the year showed £730 of net
premiums standing against £360 of exes, and
£273 of claims. Presumably, under” the new
rule, there will be no claims in the future.
But it would be better to drop the fire busi-
ness altogether. It doesn’t pay for the pre-
judice it creates. Whether even accident
business should be carried on by a co.
engaged in life insurance is very doubtful.
Canada is positive that it shouldn’t be, and
declines to allow its cos. to mix the two.
At the same time the co. is fairly entitled
to look round for ways and means of earn-
ing interest on its substantial capijtal of
£75,345. If the more or less speculative
accident business doesn’t provide it, we may
be sure that the life business will be ex-
pected to. And that would be most un-
desirable. The proper course later on may
be to separate the two sections, and allocate
portion of the capital definitely to the acci-
dent business.
The Castlemaine Brewery Co. (Mel-
bourne) : —•
June, Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Reserves.
1906.. £1,498 Nil £2,000 £4,812
Doss. Deficit.
1907.. 11,302 Nil 2,396 8,886
Written off Advances. . .. 2,871 11,757
Written off Freeholds, Brewerv,
etc. (net) 29,029 40,786
Sent., Loss.
1908.. 1,442 Nil 42,228
Reserves.
Capital written off (7/6 per share), £46,875 4,647
Profits.
1909.. 1.581 2 p.c. =£1562 —. 4,666
Unexplained additions, £6610 .. 11.276
1910.. 8,184 5 p.c. = 3906 15,554
1911.. 8,183 6 ~ ~ 4688 19,049
1912.. 11.843 6 ~ ~ 4688 26,204
1913.. 10,506 61 ~ 5079 31,631
1914.. 9.446 7 ~ .. —* 35,608
1915.. 9,520 7 ~ ~ 5469 39,659
1916 . 5,541 7 „ 5469 39,731
They did it. but there wasn’t enough in .the
bottle, and they had to fill up out of the cask.
There were two troubles during the year—
two direct troubles, at least. One was a
shrinkage of the receipts from the brewery
combine by one-third. And that was serious,
because of this co.’s big interest in the com-,
bine. The co. nowadays isn't in the brewing-
business itself: it was one of those which
sold out for shares in the Carlton and United
Breweries. But the C. and U. B. didn’t take
over all the assets: it took over no pubs at
all and only leased what brewery premises it
wanted. So this Castlemaine (Melb.) Co.
has two big lots of property: the combine
shares, which last year brought in only £6260
as against £9395 iii 1915 and £8857 in 1914.
and pub and other premises, which gave
about the usual £7591 in rents, etc.
While the income was thus cut down
exes, ran up through the expense of
replacing some debentures that fell due.
“Interest on mortgages, etc.,” was £948
in the previous year; last year the
"etc.”—apparently the expenses of this new
issue—consumed another thousand. And
even now it doesn't, look as if the debt has
been arranged on a permanent basis. The
old debenture liability had been gradually
reduced to £69,800. The present accounts
show £38,900 owing that way, and the bal-
ance has been raised on overdraft.
These and other movements in the figures
are shown in this table: —
Liabilities.
1901. 1911. 1915. 1916.
Debenture debt £lOO,OOO £76,700 £69,800 £38,900
Other debts to
public.. .. 55,502 24,821 16,320 45,781
Assets.
Breweries, etc. B*.l 00in .l
Stock and plant 25,870 S ' } 117,316 118,406
Hotels, etc. . . 125,249 94,902 j
Advances, trade
debtors . . 51,959 958 6,853 4,853
Cash, etc. . . 6,033 179 469 597
C a r 1 t o n and
l 'nited Brewerv
shares.. .. 76,875 82,000 82,000
So, in addition to the combine shares —the
value of which consists mainly of goodwill—
the co. has assets valued at £123,856; and
it owes £84,681. apart from a few pounds
of debenture interest. That means just
under £40.000 net of assets exclusive of the
shares. But, as mentioned above, £118,406
is represented by freeholds, mostly pubs; and
pubs are a doubtful proposition these times.
Yet it speaks well for the value of the
assets of this concern that “realisations of
securities over book values, transfer fees,
etc,,” have in the past three years added to
the revenue, in this way: 1914, £1033; 1915,
£402; 1916. £2153. No C. and U. B. shares
have, of course, been sold: they alee not
to go on the market. What they are worth
to hold depends largely on the success of
the Cold Tea campaign. Its success of late
has been simply amazing; but whether the
devil who has been a saint amid the distresses
of war will be a saint amid the rejoicings
over peace has. yet to be seen. Still, on
account of the • uncertainties, this isn't an
investment to recommend to Aunt Tabitha.
Usher’s Metropolitan Hotel. Ltd, (Syd-
ney)—the deficit of £18,067 with which the
co. started was made up of goodwill £16,573
and preliminary expenses £1494 :—■
To Reduce
Aug., Loss. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit,
£18,067
1914.. £921 - 18,988
Additional goodwill items . . 19,547
1915.. 1070 20,617
Profit.
1916.. 105 £lO5 20,512
Sydney Daily Telegraph Co. some years
ago bought the premises in which A. .J. Usher
carried on the Metropolitan Hotel; and when
the lease of the King-street premises occupied
by the D.T. was on its last legs Usher had
to shift. A hundred yards along Castlereagh-
street was the Trocadero Cafe; and as the
premises were old and the Australia had
proved it a good neighborhood for a pub of
the first-class, this co. was formed to buy
Usher’s p-oodwill and build a new house. The
freehold cost £30,000; the lease of the Troca-
dero ran into £2247; and the goodwill (in-
cluding license) of .Usher’s ate another
£17,132. On top of that was the cost of the
building and furniture —apparently £80,633
for the one and £15.231 for the other. Add
£1494 for preliminary exes., and it will be
seen that before the first gin-and-bitters was
served the co. had spent £146,737, without
paying the wholesale gin-and-bitters mer-
chant. The original share capital was
£85,000, with a debenture debt of £50,000.
That being insufficient, and money being by
that time in demand for killing people by
very much more rapid means, there was a
further issue of £lO,OOO 2nd mortgage deben-
tures and £7OOO 8 p.c. fixed cumulative pref.
shares. But dear money wasn’t the only
skeleton the co. found gibbering inside. Six
o’clock closing, threatened for some time,
arrived ; and “in addition to this encroach-
ment on our profits, since the hotel was
opened two successive awards of Wages
Boards have had the effect of largely increas-
ing the employees’ wages.”
During the first couple of years the bar
business was carried on in a mere shell of a
place, and almost sufficient profit was made
to pay the heavy overhead charges. In the
past year—practically a full year of trading
in the new premises—the early months were
naturally unDrofitable, but the later months
were almost good enough to swing the
balance to the right* side. • There is, how-
ever, a long way to go yet before shareholders
can have more than a taste. Pref. dividend
is accumulating; in the years to come in-
creasing amounts will have to be spent on
renewals ; the debenture debt will have to be
provided for, and the preliminary exes, etc.,
written off. The whole position of these high-
class residential hotels is most unsatisfac-
tory. It would pay a co. 10 times better to
put its money into a dozen low-class drinking
shops; and that isn’t a desirable state of
affairs, and the law which works out that
way is more of an ass than usual.
* * * *
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc. (Sydney) :
r Dividends. ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. lOp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept., ’O9. . 6,539 Nil 6,539 33,196
Mar., ’lO.. 8,873 2000 7 p.c.= 2029 4,844 38,040
Sept., ’10..10,248 8000 14 „ „ 4088 36.200
Mar., ’11..16,437 2000 10 ~ ~ 2899 11,538 47,738
Deferred Ordinary dividend. .8117 —■ 39,621-
Sept., ’11..16,857 2000 10 p.c.= 2899 11,958 61,579
Mar., ’l2. .12,910 2000 10 ~ „ 2899 8,011 59,590
f Deferred Ordinary div. 7176 52,414
Sept., ’l2 -j , —All Shares. —~
( 14,409 10 p.c.— 4899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares . . 252 62,176
Mar., ’13.. 13,577 10 p.c.= 6500 7,077 69.253
Sept., ’l3. .11,369 Nil 11,369 80,622
Mar., ’14.. 6,594 Nil 6,594 87,216
Sept., ’14.. 7,737 Nil 7,737 94,953
Mar., ’15.. 9,026 Nil 9,026 103,9/9
Sept., ’15.. 4,744 Nil 4,744 108,723
Mar., ’16.. 9,044 10 p.Q,= 6500 2,544 111,267
Sept.,’l6.. 6,974 10 ~ „ 6500 474 111,741
Many a time this co. has shown a larger
profit. But there never was a time when
The Bulletin was better pleased with the
look of the accounts. Sales, naturally, are
not wliat they were. Look at the totals for
the Mareh-September halves: —
1911. . £146,107 I 1914. . £182,316
1912.. 172,461 I 1915.. 205,469
1913.. 170,759 | 1916.. 152,065
That the co. should have shown such big
figures for Mareh-September, 1!)15, was due
not only to the sinful borrowing boom which
this country maintained in the face of a
war for its life, but to the evident determi-
nation of the directors to reduce stocks and
consequently debt. This is the result so far
as the debt is concerned :
Mar., 1911. . £32,468 Mar., 1914. , £83,444
Sept., 1911., 38,768 Sept., 1914., 96,918
Mar., 1912. 46,796 Mar., 1915.. 103,787
Sept.., 1912.. 72,276. Sept., 1915. . 65,188
Mar., 1913.. 66,836 Mar., 1916.. 53,482
Sept.-, 1913. . 70,968 Sept., 1916.. 29,953
In view of the growing dearness of money
and the uncertainty of being able to get rid
•of stocks later on at anything like present
costs, those last , four lines constitute one of
the co.’s best achievements. And it is all
the more creditable because It was partly
accomplished by abstention from dividends:
five half-years were allowed to pass without
distributing a bean, which meant an addition
of just-on £40,000 to the reserves. It is
quite likely that these reserves are not the
most substantial ones in the world: £51.289,
or nearly one-half of the total, is a deprecia-
tion reserve. But even if they were used
to write down the assets to bedrock and
lower, there would surely be a large amount
over, because the total book value of the
assets is only £277,651. That, of course,
will help to pay dividends in future, for it
is easier, generally speaking, for a co. with
£200,000 worth of assets to pay a dividend
on £130,000 of capital than for a co. to do
it on a bare £130,000 worth of belongings.'
All the same, times are not going to be bril-
liant for many people in the construction
trades. There is not only going to be a lot
less demand than there used to be, but two
years hence people will be looking a lot
harder at sixpence than they do to-day, and
prices asked for timber are going to be very
different in consequence.
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Sydney), which started in May, 1911, with
a deficit of £7064, represented by goodwill
£5OOO and preliminary expenses £2064 :
Bonus to De-
May, Profit." " f Dividends. N Customers, licit.
1911.. £7064
Aug., Pref. Ord.
1912.. £1375 6 p.c. 5 p.c. £726 £99 6514
1913.. 1549 6 „ 5 „ 995 Nil 5960
1914.. 1173 6 „ 5 „ '1064 Nil 5851
1915.. 415 6 „ Nil 229 Nil 5665
1916.. 983 6 „ 4 p.c. 988 Nil 5670
From the directors’ report of 12 months
ago:—•
The existing agreement l) e t ween the corporation
and the selling agents, under which they received
a remuneration of 7s. 6d. per ton on superphosphate
and other fertilisers, has been cancelled by mutual
agreement,' and it lias been agreed that, as from
September 1, 1915, the managing agents are to
receive a remuneration of 24 p.c. on the gross sales
of such goods.
That apparently explains why a larger
profit was made this past year. At any
rate, these figures seem significant: —
Commission,
Advertising and
Sales Travelling Proportion of
(1). (2). (2) to (t).
19X3 .. £47,684 £4173 8.8 p.c.
1914 . . 38,107 3532 9.3 „
1915 .. 44.387 3014 . 6.8 „
1016 . . 30,102 1693 5.C „


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILE.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
33-59 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium. ... . ..£52 IS 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£GO for one year . . .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
'E ARE BORN TO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
m 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,CC0
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Gross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
n nriiTn iiuuTcn Branches in every Stat
AGENTS WANTED. Writs for particular:
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Ihc Australian General Electric Co., corner Went-
worth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney; corner
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, place
then services at the disposal of all those requiring
information which will enable them to readily select
the most advantageous material used in the construc-
tion of overhead-trolley systems, and track return,
tor electric haulage in mining plants. We here men-
tion a few of the devices in which the above company
specialise. Rail bonds, trolley-wire supports, sus-
pensions, clamping ears, mechanical splicing sleeves
strain insulators, turnbuckles, trolley frogs, drills,
etc. All of this apparatus has been especially de-
signed and manufactured to meet every possible
condition of mining service. Write for particu-
lars.— Advt.
Adamax Roofing is made from superior-qualitj'
fibred woollen felt, which is thoroughly saturated
with pure mineral asphaltum. The saturated felt is
then heated at a high temperature. The process
results in a rough surface being deposited on the
roofing, which protects it from all the elements—
heat, cold, wind, rain, acids, gases, etc. Adamax
Roofing contains no tar, fish oil or resin, which are
sensitive to climatic conditions. It will not rot,
perish or crumble. It costs less than galvanised iron
—less for freight; easier to handle and means cool
homes during the summer. For full particulars call
or send to William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers hefe to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
When considering the economy, there can be no
satisfactory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe.
The ideal pressure pipe, manufactured in all sizes
from 3in. to 14ft. diameter. Send for illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company
Limited (head office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. Factories: Lane
Cove. N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.; Port Adelaide, S.A. —
Advt.
Melbourne Accountant, lately returned from Cali-
fornia, will undertake personally negotiate industrial
or mining business in United States early in 1917.
Address “Negotiator,” care Bulletin, Sydney.— Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water .into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — -Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and hssay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
Earth-handling and Road-buildino Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
* * * #
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assai
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling'
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, a
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 6
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 {
, „ £783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culvvulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 CastlereagTi Street. Sydney.
The old remuneration seems to have been
about 5 p.c. as an average; the present is
2 } p.c. 'A. H. Ilasell, the managing agent,
whose business this more or less co-opera-
tive co. took over, has treated the concern
very generously, and for the past year,
instead of taking the 4 p.c. div. on the 51)00
shares which he • received for the business,
he makes the £2OO available to reduce the
book value of paper assets. The past year’s
conditions were adverse in almost all
respects but one. Costs were high and raw
materials often impossible to get; but,
owing to the extra-good season, it was
rather less difficult than usual to do business
with the cocky without giving him credit.
This co. didn’t feel sure enough of the
future to give much credit, anyhow. One
result is that the co. has only £5842 on its
books, while it has £10,495 in cash or on
call; and its total liabilities are £7671, in-
cluding mortgage on the works freehold.
The share capital is £22,718, including
Hasell’s £5OOO. That loading is a small
insect in the pot. But it would be stupid
t 0 s ? e . the insect and forget the large
possibilities of co-operative beneficence about
the concern.
Broken Hill Junction, the lame dog of the
big lode, prints it in heavy black letters, and
must have been tempted to-make a splash and
do it in red : after writing off all expendi-
ture on development, and also £2283 from
°, hi plant scrapped, there remains a profit of
£5644 for the half-year. It is too many
years to flog the mind back over since the
co. paid a dividend. At Sept. 30 it still
owed £lO,OOO on debentures ; but as it had
about £lO,OOO net liquid and semi-liquid
assets in hand, including estimated sur-
pluses on ore delivered and ore on hand, the
directors say: “Provided recent conditions
continue this period [to the end of a new
12 months’ contract lately made with the
Sulphide Corporation] should not only pay
off the balance of the mortgage, but also
provide a dividend for shareholders.” War
prices have of course helped enormously.
The output was 19,142 tons; so the profit
(including estimated surpluses) was only
6s. per ton. With normal prices for metal's
the co. would certainly get 6s. less for ore
assaying (crude) lO.loz. silver, 12.87 p.c.
lead and 7.37 p.c zinc ; and that would wipe
out the profit shown. On the other hand the
co. spent £4893 on development and £5363
on preparatory work; so at a pinch there
would be a wider margin than this 6s. to
work on. But the figures are not good
enough to lead one to expect dividends under
normal conditions. Still, it is always worth
while plugging away at the Junction even if
only working expenses are met; for the mine
is so situated that a rich bulge may be found
almost anywhere.
* * * »
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) showed
a miserable profit of £8666 for the six
months ended October 31. This profit added
to the amount brought forward and £4OOO
lrom the equalisation fund provided £5200.
There are 75,000 shares, so the shilling divi-
dend cost £3750. The balance of £1450
goes for depreciation. These dredges do eat
up money for repairs and renewals. This
co. charges its working account with £4lOO
for this kind of work. The surplus of liquid
assets is reduced to £3002. which compares
with £9689 at the end of the previous term.
The debenture debt has been reduced to
£3OOO, so the co. is in fairly easy .circum-
stances. But unless there is an improve-
ment in values it will take an enormous
quantity of wash to return the paid-up
capital. Last half-year 640,500 cub. yds.
returned 2773|0z.
Lobb’s Hole Petroleum and Copper Mining
Co. issues a prospectus, and if the thing
floats it will probably be the first attempt
ever made to mine petroleum and copper on
the same spot. J. B. Jaquet’s report upon
the earth-slide near Lobb’s Hole, which is in
the wildest part of the Monaro (N.S.W.),
refers to the presence in the old copper mine
of a natural gas found to contain methane.
T\yo analyses of this, gas by different
analysts disclosed a high percentage of this
elemenf, and in all oilfields methane is
accepted as proof that there is petroleum
handy. But it does not necessarily mean
that oil is alongside the gas, and it. does not
follow that oil will be found in the copper-
mine. But £3OOO won’t help to strike oil
with an ordinary drill used for boring for
gold and coal. In petroleum mining only a
standard oil drill and rig should be used.
All other drilling plants are worse than
valueless ; they do harm because they cannot
find oil, and their, negative results mislead
the searchers.
* * * *
Chillagoe, which has evidently been wait-
ing for something to turn up, has delayed
issuing its report for 1915, and has only just
given, it to the long-since tired-out share-
holders. In an undated report (which
must, however, have been written within the
last week or two, because it laments the
death of H. F. C. Keats, one of the direc-
tors) the Board “regrets that it is not yet
in a position to make any definite statement
regarding; the resumption of operations.
Notice of foreclosure has been given by the
debenture-holders, but nothing further has
been done.” The loss for 1915 (including
only £470 for depreciation) carried the 1.
and L. debit from £60,269 to £90,069, and at
that date the co. owed: General debenture
account, £573,300; Etheridge Railway deben-
tures, £225,000; Einasleigh debenture
account, £15,000; deficiency coupons,
£29,862 ; Bank of Australasia, £10,857 ; sun-
dry’ creditors (mostly accrued debenture in-
terest), £57,927. Total, £911,946. Liquid
assets (exclusive of stores) were about
£25,000. It has been a ghastly business.
The co.’s railway, which the State will take
over sooner or later, is 255 miles long, and
stands in the books, without rolling stock,
at £798,784. ' A bill authorising the State to
purchase the entire outfit from the deben-
ture-holders for £450,000 is now before the
Queensland Parliament.
The Etheridge gold mines (Q.), which tlie
Chillagoe people took over and passed to a
separate co., hoping to incidentally feed
their own railway and works, have had a
poor time. In the 12 months to the end of
June, figures for which are only just out,
there was a nominal profit of £877 on work-
ing account; and Melbourne exes, reduced
that to £741. But nothing was written off
against depreciation. Actually, as machin-
ery, plant and buildings cost about £30,000,
and depreciation is at least 12| p.c., the loss
was, say, £3OOO. The stoppage of work at
Chillagoe drove the co. to look south for a
market for its concentrates ; and that meant
heavy freight charges and poor net returns.
It took 4798 tons ore, converted into 505
tons concentrates, to make this working
profit of £877. *' Costs ran to an appalling
535. per ton of ore. Hold on to something
and look at it:- —Mining (including develop-
ment), 19s. lOd. (which isn’t so terrible) ;
milling, 7s. lOd.; power, ss. 9d. (phew!);
ore transport, 4s. lOd.; concentrates trans-
port, Bs. 3d.; and the rest management and
gei oral exes. There are four mines—the
Queenslander, Havelock, Big Reef and Nil
Desperandum—with ore developed sufficient
to keep the plant going at its recent half-
gait for two years. But in present circum-
stances it really doesn’t seem to matter much
whether the co. has two or 20 years’ ore in
reserve. The finances are not too comfort-
able. The co. on June 30 owed £6037,
and liquid and more or less liquid assets
(such as stores) were worth £5127.
* * * *
Corella, Cloncurry (Q-), requires money
to purchase leases within easy distance of
its smelting plant. Knowing that the Rose-
hud has but limited reserves of 5 p.c. ore
above the 300 ft. level, the manager has
strongly advised the Board to purchase
other shows, following the example of the
Hampden, Elliott and Cutlibert. The policy
is expensive, and Is. calls don’t provide
much capital for so ambitious an. enterprise.
The total output of Charters Towers in
November was £9654, so it isn't to be won-
dered at that the brokers are cultivating
business in the Rimu flat (M.L.)' properties.
South Aus. Oil Wells Co. reports SsBft.
drilled in six months—not much of a record
when in California they drill and bring in
oil-wells of 2000 ft. in six weeks. The drill
is down to 3888 ft. in a hard shale with thin
bands of sandstone and layers of .shale and
sand. For the last thousand feet there has
been a strong pressure of natural gas. The
well manager guesses the gas contains
methane, which is an infallible indication of
the existence of petroleum. Why have the
directors not had the gas tested' long ago?
If there is no methane in it, they should
abandon the hole, because a gas well in the
desert near Robe is worth about as much as
King O’Malley’s free-steamer tickets for
M’s.P. The total cost of boring the hole at
Robe, including office expenses, has been
£16,791, of which £5022 has been spent in
the office and not at the mine.
To grip the Edna May ore position it is
necessary to keep an eye on what is happen-
ing in Edna Deeps. Taking the last three,
half-yearly statements, reserves in the big-
mine have worked out this way :
Oct., 1915. April, 1916. Oct., 1916.
Average Average Average
Tons. Value. Tons. Value. Tons. Value.
73ft... 6,090 36/- 4,000 34/6 4,000 31/6
150 ft... 17,400 99/6 10,820 93/6 3,980 47/3
225 ft... 22,180 94/6 11,230 90/6 6,849 81/-
300 ft... 21,800 88/- 21,122 94/6
45,670 88/7 47,850 85/4 35,951 80/-
Put it another way. A year ago ore proved
was worth £202.327; six months ago,
£204,219 now, £143.840, This drop is due
to the eating up of reserves owing to no new
level having been opened up ; but the stone
availably is such that even with the mill
crushing over 3000 tons monthly the co.
isn’t likely to be hard up for quartz, even if
a gusher is got before the present crosscut
finds the reef. No. 1 level still stands up to
the collar; but ore developed at Nos. 2 and
3 has not kept pace with extractions, and
the grade of the blocks left shows that a
lot of the plums have ulready gone into the
pot. Taking into account stone already
crushed, the 300 ft. level should yield about
38,000 tons out of tire main shoot, which
has shortened in length, no quartz of value
showing south of the crosscut, while the
south-eastern bulge at the elbow has moved
up towards that on the boundary to the
north-east. Official figures give the stopes
at 300 ft. a length of 180 ft. In the Deeps
it looks as if the shoot is not 120 ft. long,
for the shaft appears to have gone only into
a corner of the lode. If 60ft. is cut out, a
deduction will have to be made in the re-
serves available for Edna May below 300 ft.
Edna May’s costs of treatment last half-
year ran out at nearly 355. per ton, power
representing over 7s. 6d. Including milling
and sand cyaniding, and excluding slimes
costs, it took over 30s. to get 775. In a poor
mine this would be death. With ounce stuff
to handle, 3s. per month comes along to the
Edna crowd in divs. If costs be set down
at 305., the profit on ore reserves runs out
at about 455. per share, apart from what
may be collected from the dump of accu-
mulated slimes. Should these live up to
sample, the co. will get £30,000, or another
15s. per share, making 60s. in sight. The
problem, then, is: How rich or how ragged
is the shoot from 300 ft. down? The solu-
tion lies in the Deeps. Once the 480 ft. level
in Deeps is measured up properly—a job
that is understood to be in hand —the worth
of Ednas can be counted up to a nicety.
* * * *
Commodore (W.A.) claims to have secured
something good in its Macquarie option at
Meekatharra. Fair have been ex-
tracted from the show hitherto, and it is
now declared to have the makings of a big-
low-grade thing. Commodore’s tips, how-
ever, have not been of much value in the
past, so the public will require some con-
vincing evidence before it becomes enthusi-
astic.
* * . * *
With the exception of the Yuanmi, all
Lake View and Oroya’s smaller Australian
mining ventures have given out, and the
Yuanmi was admitted at the recent annual
meeting to be a struggling weakling which
might pass hence at any time. Even the back-
bone of the co., Lake View and Star, is,
owing to poor developments, decreased
values and increased costs, finding it diffi-
cult to keep its head above water. The
struggle is more severe, says the Board,
because of the “selfish, obstinate and idiotic
refusal” of the miners to allow the employ-
ment of alien labor. The Zinc Corporation,
in which the co. is largely interested, was
described as in fine shape. Dividends had
been resumed on the ordinary shares, and
the co. would soon be making quarterly dis-
tributions as before the war. Burma Cor-
poration was quoted as one of the successes
which would atone for permanent and tem-
porary failures among the co.’s ventures.
The original investment of £BO,OOO in this
spec, had now a market valuation exceeding
£400,000, equal to about 10s. per Lake View
and Oroya share. The market value of four
of the co.’s investments was, on the day of
the meeting, equal to 155., whereas the quote
for Lake View and Oroyas was only 11s.
Efforts are again being made to resurrect
the' defunct Hidden Secret (W.A.). Years
ago a small telluride shoot containing a lot
of silver and several ounces of gold per ton
was exposed near the surface by a party of
Italians, and from it about £70.000 was
obtained. Impoverishment, however, set in
at a shallow depth, and the show was ulti-
mately left for dead. Latterly a local syn-
dicate has had a try, and it now reports
good values but no telluride. Without the
latter the future is likely to be drab.
T. H. Martyn, the Sydney broker who
very early specialised in gold dredging, and
subsequently picked up one or two apparently
good tin things for the Malaya Tin Corpora-
tion, is just back from Siberia, where, accord-
ing to a circular to the shareholders of the
Corporation, he has “secured outright some
important properties which promise to prove
immediately remunerative.” An early re-
port quoted some astonishing gold values.
The Speck’s Government has managed to
screw an extra ss. a ton for fuel oil out
of the Navy Department, and now has a
provisional contract for 8000 tons a year for
10 years at the price it asked. As the co.
that owns the Latrobe shale property has
come down from £125,000 to £65,000 it looks
as if there will be something doing, as the
State Parliament isn’t likely to turn down
the purchase now.
Amalgamated Zinc has made a start at
construction on the site of its electrolytic
zinc works at Bisdon (Tas.). Its American
expert is expected shortly.
A temporary shortage of sulphuric acid
lately caused a scare among producers of
zinc concentrates. Australia shipped 146,630
tons of these concentrates in the nine
months to September 30, 1916. The de-
clared export value is £681,583, but that is
only a trifle compared with the market value
of the contents, including some 50,000 tons
of recoverable spelter and 30,000 tons of
sulphuric acid. These Australian zinc con-
centrates contain over 20 p.c. sulphur, the
stuff we require so much at present. When
the concentrates arrive in America they are.
carefully roasted and enormous quantities of
acid are made from the fumes. After this
process, the concentrate is ready for the zinc
retort. At present we are importing sul-
phur from Japan, and the Japs, are eager
to get our valuable concentrates in exchange.
South Bischoff is eight miles from the big
mountain, and the Waratah syndicate has
placed a d-head mill on it. The first return
irom 12 tons raised in prospecting and
development returned eight bags of 70 pc.
concentrates and six bags of 45 p.c. con-
centrates. This seems to indicate an aver-
age of about 3 p.c. tin, worth (say) 90s.
fiecent reports are very optimistic because
a face of porphyry sft. wide at the end of
the tunnel is showing good prospects. But
so far only a short#run of ore has been
proved.


CIM RIB
NeidsieckS
Vinrage 1906
GMfIMW
NE PLUS DLTRfI
g
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
"XoSie
ALLAN &. CO.
pr 1. LT3.
n
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song —Mvel
Meditation - - Morel
A Resolve - • Kotlar
Question - - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse— Eugene Blore
ALLAN'S, 261 Collins St.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (Q. chandon.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Eb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
since 1679. since 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 18, 1016.
My Dear Arini,—
Though it’s' early in the toy industry
in this land of wheat and mutton, there is
quite a good show of Christmas presents
for the nippers in Challis House window.
The smiles on the face of the elephant and
the Wellingtonian beaks of Australian par-
rots have been achieved by returned soldiers.
There’s a depot in Ash-street where the
“voluntaries” are taught the tricks, so that
they may pass them on at Randwick Hos-
pital. It isn’t so easy as it looks to make
a baby emu or an old-man kangaroo. One
damsel, being disgusted with her emu, threw
it recklessly from a depot window. It blew
into the Red Cross Kitchen, and irate autho-
rity stamped upstairs for an explanation.
A. few weeks ago a fashionable Blue
Mountain resort was aquiver with excite-
ment. After a long, cold winter, in which
there hadn’t been even a new curate to
discuss, the wires flashed the message to a
smart local hostel: “Madame Melba and
companion will arrive to-morrow.” Some-
how the news soon ran round ; and the
caravanserai’s chef, hearing the great tid-
ings, awaited instructions to spring some-
thing special .on the distinguished visitors.
The day came and the Western train was
scanned. No Melba hopped out. Then a
goods train jolted into the little station, and
the hostel’s farm-hand took delivery of two
pedigree cows, Madame Melba and Ada
Crossley. They came from the West, where
they had been thus duly christened with a
bran mash or something. Then the pro-
prietress solemnly invited the hamlet to see
Melba in the bail.
The 12th Light Horse dames held their
revel under the trees in the Garden Theafre
grounds. The theatre was heavily disguised
'behind bunting, and it took another shilling
to get through a chink in the drapery.. A
slight vaudeville co., all amateurs, made
heroic efforts to be heard. But the difficult
acoustics of an open-air show call for a pro-
fessional training. Dora Alexander, under
the shade of leafy black millinery, warbled
more audibly than the rest of the co. Mrs.
Nathan—Thelma Maddrell of a while ago —-
gave an exhibition of serpentine writhings to
suitable music; Miss Kirkcaldie attacked
Hill’s “Maori Maiden” in the Poi song.
When a small boy with his- face blacked
took possession of the stage, long-suffering
patriots in the audience melted away to the
tea tables. Mrs. Herbert Allen and Mrs.
Lang Campbell were at the cake stall; and
the tall Miss Von Arnheim, her face swathed
in one of the new tulle bags (all over the
hat and tied in cascade-like bows under one
ear), and lion. sec. Ethel Clibborn were
amongst the lady pirates.
What affection the Lord must have for
Australia —that is, if it be true that He
loves a cheerful giver!. The other day the
Red Cross asked for razors—second-hand or
otherwise. In two days 500 responded to
the appeal.
General Finn has been wearing a •sock
of plaster-of Paris the last week or two.
The cheery, strenuous old soldier, who “takes
it out” of a bit of garden when he feels
that way, had the bad luck to break a small
bone in his foot in his enthusiastic efforts to
till a steep hillside. But he is able to take
the limb to the ’phone and answer the sym-
pathetic friends at the other end of the wire.
The Journalists’ Institute offered oysters
on ice and other oblations to F. W. Ward
at Farmer’s on Friday. After being about
two years out of harness, the popular old
whiskery ex-chief of the Sydney D.T. is itch-
ing to be up and at it again. So he goes to
the Brisbane Telegraph. Spare Tom
Heney, of the Herald, took the chair and
named the speakers. D. D. Braham, who
followed Ward in King-street, poured out
the first flagon of praise. Justice Ferguson
put a foam on the measure, and Brunsdon
Fletcher, Ernest Blackwell and Charlton, of
the Mail, completed the bumper. Harry
Gullett, in khaki, lean and tanned from
camp sunbaths, was in the party.
Over 700 visitors to see the three soldiers’
homes opened at French’s Forest the other
day included workers, spectators and the
press-gang which lias been putting a spade
in the sod. Architect De Putron has been
putting his shoulder to the carpenter’s bench
every week-end since the year was young.
Result, five cottages, for which he is the
responsible party, as they say in the classics.
So Mrs. De Putron had the joy of turning
the key to open one of the cots. A beautiful
nest, built by the Leichhardt branch of the
Voluntary Workers, was given to tall re-
eruiting-sergeant Gallia, an Italian badly
wounded at the Front with the A.I.F. and
the husband of a charming little Irish wife.
A Mosman boys’ school band piped cheer-
fully over the proceedings.
Speech-day at Sydney Grammar School
brought his Ex. from Moss Vale to hand
over the prizes. One small boy took away
enough literature to keep him in reading
matter for the next 12 months —if school-
boys ever read the prizes headmasters con-
sider good for them. Headmaster Sloman
is in khaki on the other side, so veteran A.
H. Lucas reigns temporarily in his stead.
Justice Street, in a speech that kept the
youngsters interested from start to finish,
gripped the school’s yearly record with its
proud boast of having trounced its once
invincible rival, the old King's School, on
the athletic side. His Honor’s voice broke
a little when he spoke softly of the gallant
dead in other lands who once gathered
their prizes at the “Grammar” break-up.
His own son's name is on the school's Roll
ol Honor.
This week there’s a States’ School Con-
ference ; but I’m not sure that it comes
under the heading “amusements.” And
here is one of the hard-worked school marms,
Miss Lilian Ellis, who hopes to wipe away
all tears from the study of at least one
of the three It’s. Her short cut to reading
has now been adopted by the State Educa-
tion Department, and an enterprising pub-
lisher has acquired the rights for the rest
of the Commonwealth. So far Miss Ellis
has worked in chalk on a blackboard, but
the Government Printer has unleashed his
foundry men, and books set up in the Ellis
type are almost ready. The old Roman let-
ters are used. But the long vowels are
printed- in heavy block type and the short
nuisances in thin light type.
What’s it all about? The short cut to
reading, of course, with the knickerbocker
class all smiles. Babies, under the Ellis sys-
tem, rush such literary hurdles as “phthisis,”
for example. The “p” and the two “h’s”
wear little crooks which drag them out of
existence. Then the infants go ahead and
note that the first “i” is in heavy type, and
a few other details that make phthisis almost
as easy as b-a-t.
Captain Hubert Orr, of the Army Medi-
cal, tucked the hand of his best girl,
Sylvia Hargreaves, under his arm in old
St. Philip’s Church last week. The bride’s
white tailored suit had the usual dash of
pink, with a cloud of white tulle veil tossed
up round the neck in the foam of the
moment. Bridesmaidens Fanny Orr and
Svbil Neal, in white muslin, stepped de-
murely behind. The ’groom’s company
formed the guard of honor. Party at the
Carlton. Sylvia’s father is Town Clerk of
Ashfield.
Good-looking Eileen Bain, of the Neutral
Bay hillside, meant to have lent a hand
with the flower-selling at the Hospice
matinee. But man proposes, etc. So she
changed her plans and her name, and was
married to surgeon Roberts, of H.M.A.S.
Brisbane. The bride rejoins her husband
early in the New Year —wouldn’t you like
to know the address?
Let’s hope the Belgian babes get everything
we send their way. Anyhow, the Archbishop
of Canterbury takes the responsibility of the
cheque from Gwen Nelson’s cabaret party at
the Burlington Cafe. This is the affair that
was first dated for the Pacific, at Manly.
Tickets first mentioned at ss. also had to
move —to 7s. 6d. a head. Iced asparagus and
other creature comforts would have eaten up
too much of the crown. Pianist Fay tossed
off some dance music in an alcove midair, and
Nelson pere and mere helped to keep things
moving. The puffed upper drapery worn by
the damsels present had one specially delect-
able example—azure silk with a blush rose
at the waist, and a pretty girl, Miss
Edwards, inside it.
There’s a sea of sympathy this Christmas
for Tom Hughes and his wife. Of their two
sons—other chicks have they none the
elder, Roger, has just died of wounds in
France. He was one of Sydney's promising
young doctors, and had been with the A.M.( .
at the Front only a week or two when the
fatal bullet found him. The younger boy,
Geoff., is with the Aviation Corps at the
same address. Roger’s young widow was
Eileen Maher a year ago. Before leaving for
the other side he did good service for a while
at the Artillery camp at the Warren.
Ina Cornish and Millie Nathan left Syd-
ney last Saturday, destination unknown.
This seeming carelessness about arranging
for a port of disembarkation is accounted for
by the fact that both ladies had originally
booked for England by a certain boat which
suddenly ceased to be a peaceful liner and
became something else. The powers that be,
however, are said to have intimated to the
two would-be war-workers that they might
still travel in the mystery sloop if they got
aboard quietly. Hence the flitting. It is
said that they are the only ladies aboard, and
as there are one or two other warlike persons
afloat, they ought to come back engaged
several times over, if they feel that way.
Helen Christian lately landed back at
Elizabeth Bay after two years in Pharaoh’s
country. She went there with her sister,
Mrs. Syd. Christian —she married, a cousin
—and has been doing nursing jobs ever
since. Another sister, Mrs. Antill, super-
visor of our War Chest operations, is lately
back from a country effort after Chest
expansion. Miss Ralston accompanied the
popular Antill lady to form branches, and
a good haul is reported.
Intelligence-Officer Mills, a brother of
Mrs. Forrest, the Queensland verse-writer,
has lately been in hospital somewhere near
the Nyassa Falls. He had been in khaki
with the Rhodesian Rifles since the begin-
ning of the war. Now, in spite of his
malaria, he lifts a cheer over the quality of
the healing haven that the British have
made out of an enemy mission-station. Young
Mills hadn’t previously slept in a “real
bed” for months and months, and finds it
restful after stalking lions, tigers and Ger-
mans since 1914. He has been offered a
commission in the Coldstream Guards for
services rendered, and will take it —when he
can be spared from his job in the nearly-all-
black continent.
Veteran Sam McCaughey, godfather of
irrigation in the liiverina, went to the
TJ.S.A. and Canada the other day. The
pink-cheeked old man —he must be 80-odd —
is a bachelor: there’s never an Eve, except
a stern housekeeper, to help Adam gather
his rosebuds at Yanko.
Mrs. A. J. Hare, the forceful chieftainess
of the Lane Cove V.A.D.’s, is going to holi-
day for a couple of months. During that
time the Red Cross has decided to close
Reinga—the riverside home for soldiers, lent
by the O’Briens. Last week, by way of
saying “Thank you. kindly,” soldiers who
have been nursed back to health in this
green nest gave an evening party there.
Guests of honor were the lady commandant
(Mrs. Hare), the matron and about 50
V.A.D.’s from the River unit.
Wentworth Falls is waiting patiently till
after the war. Then its new golf links,
opened in March this year, are going to
show the rival Leura course what’s what.
John McLaughlin’s country home is just
over the fence; R. M. Pitt, chairman of the
show, grows acres of fruit and daffodils on
an adjacent hillside; T)r. Davidson and Dr.
Thomas (Manly) have bought properties a
biscuit’s throw from the links’ water dam.
Soms day it’s going to grow into a lake,
but not yet. Soutar laid out the Falls’
course, which encourages golfers in pettis.
One of the best is the Manly lady, Mrs.
Wright.
The other morning Dr. Leslie Fetherston
was married in the sacristy of St. Mary’s to
Emily E. Beatty, ex-matron of the Hospital
for Women, Paddington. The bride wore
a costume of -cream gaberdine 'and a white
moire hat, with touches of emerald green,
and carried a sheaf of arum lilies. Jean
Beatty, the bridesmaid, wore a pink chiffon
taffeta coatee over white organdie; white
leghorn hat and pink roses. J. J. Quinn was
next-best man. As the bride and bridegroom
left the Cathedral they walked between a
double file of nurses from the hospital where
the bride had reigned so successfully. Mrs.
Fetherston, mother of the bridegroom, held
a reception at Petty’s, and later' Dr. and
Mrs. Fetherston left for Medlow.
The snow-haired mother of Lieut.-Colonel
Owen Howell Price, so recently killed in
France, is bearing it bravely. So also is the
youthful fiancee of the young officer, Molly
Gray, of Kiama. Miss Gray casts her
energy into Red Cross work in these sad
days. Mrs. Howell Price was one of the
winsome Winchcombes, sister of Frederick,
of the Upper House.
Nesta Griffiths, Molly Langer Owen and
Barbara Knox, all good war-workers, were
guests at a tea given lately by Mrs. Clibborn
at the Sydney Golf Club. The trio are oft
for a trip to India.
Howard .1. Hunter, genial managing-
director of the people who shoe you with
Goodyear Tyres, has been having a business
gallop through the Noted States and Canada.
He threw his baggage aboard the Matai at
'Frisco the other day to return to the only
entirely belligerent continent in the world.
(Did it ever strike you that that’s what we
are?)
.The Little Theatre was full for the Red
Cross pickle-depot concert, with Yvonne
Gharvin at the piano, and other music-makers
to add to the glad noises. Mrs. Arthur
Joscelyne, who mothers the embalmed onions
and the V.A.D.’s in the Ash-street factory,
was hon. sec. of the movement and Mrs.
Leslie Norton counted the profits.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson, who always turns
up trumps when there’s something doing for
the Hospice -for the Dying, reports “all’s
well” with the recent matinee cheque. Nearly
£7OO will fall into the lap of the Mother
Rectress later on. Mrs. John Barlow,
another fine worker for the Darlinghurst
haven, will now take a rest over the holi-
days. It’s a long way to Tipperary and the
making-up of the £5OOO so cruelly filched
from the Hospice; but “it’s dogged as does
it,” so Trollope said —and he pounded out
three-volume novels.
Young Ormiston, of the Hunter’s Hill clan
(he’s a nephew of Dr. Isabel, now in Rou-
mania), recently won his commission in
France. He has been wounded, besides, and
all on the sunny side of two or three and
twenty.
There is a new man in Gilbert Neill's
chair at the N.S.W. Tourist Office. He
is E. H. Palmer, assistant superintendent.
Neill is in khaki and goes to see the person-
ally-conducted tours at the battle front.
Amidst the tons of Christmas literature
is a Wattle book, by “Tally” Wollaston, the
Adelaide opal expert, who plays with Aus-
tralian flora in the S. Australian Wattle
League.
A former well-known Manly Scotchby-
terian parson named Moleyneux died ■ in
England the other day. It was in __ the
long ago, when lie expounded the Word.
I fancy, that the village kirk’s elders had
an idea. Easy chairs instead of straight-
backed pews! Whether the congregation
slept more. peacefully I can’t say. But no
other local kirk has catered so luxuriously
for its clients.
A young sister of pretty Enid Bennett has
sailed off for the land of Presidential notes,
where she has already been conscripted for
the movies. According to latest accounts
another Sydney girl, Dorothy Gordon, has
“struck oil” on the same patch. She found
herself right in the Jesse Lasky trenches and
before its* manager-in-chief. “Oh. you are
a Miss Gordon, are you? Come from Aus-
tralia? Happen to know anyone named
Fosbery? One of them was my aunt.” Miss
Dorothy gasped out that “she was mine once,
too,” and they got to business.
Two high-placed Samaritans, Miss Eadith
Walker and Miss Edith Hill, will hold car-
nival and a Christmas Tree at Randwick
Military Hospital. All this week they and
a group of assistants are working out there
to that great end. Usually Miss Walker has
a Great Revel and a Big Tree at Yaralla on
Christmas Day. This year the festive
energies are transferred to Randwick.
Graham G. Parry, a writing man known
in Sydney, whose book upon Portuguese
Prisons brought about drastic reforms, is
under the Southern Cross again. He was in
Singapore last month—quite well again,
thanks, after a period in the trenches and all
the experience he wants of being buried alive
by a “crump.”
The Eastwood branch of the Red Cross
reaffirms its faith in R. M. Pontey’s fruit
and vegetable depot, which aims at filling
the bags of soldiers’ wives with something
to help the attenuated chops go round. Also,
glad tidings come of a new bequest. The
Peter Almonds, of Strathfield, have just
handed over the whole of their fruit-crop at
Pennant Hills. This runs to about 70 trees
loaded with apples, peaches, plums, etc.
Peter was severely damaged at Gallipoli.
Hence his desire to help the little things the
Absent-minded Beggar leaves behind him.
Lesta Griffiths, the friend of lonely soldiers,
leaves next week for India —a chance for
someone with the same inclinations to take
on a job with gallons of gratitude flowing
from it!
As Christmas rolls nearer hungry institu-
tions send in their cries. The sisters in
charge of St. Brigid’s Orphanage, amongst
the green hills of Ryde, want help. Send
that pair of fowds —or five shillings will do.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
<33
>
2
5
y
'/
mpmm
W'sW'rM
M
4Ji >
*
9
m
wmv ' t.
pi * (
M: '
(
fH *
fl
(:&
<<s
if
\
l ■:
m
v y
>s
tfe?
m
W
Sg B
k
lis.
.P^W.
li&c’.a
r
RMHPfif
ssss
*s*
;‘f- !
US#
NS
M
'SS=
:V\*
M
■
%yMr
I Rtfs
sss : ?
*
mm
|||w
PH
SfiH
" i
5
3
y>
<?£
ISHI ' if ,» W 1
: lV5®
ii
Mi
SBags
jfJ'-y
«*• v .\^mSß&SreytftSSfH as- .
*;: 7 '^mm
ais'x
1
■
Mi
•i'
ay
«s®isiis:
V dHFTC
wmmm'y
mm Ht
| |i
■. .. ■.
I#^
>■ a
DM-vV
f .*S
?U
s*t? , ■<' '■ * ■ • J
a?dSs
l(VV»
a ; v
&&
'. -V- 1,
•w
r-*j
:
<’■>
l~&Oj0
! y w
f./
wm
m
rmui
mM"~y
ipp
fee«pp^?»
Sk-‘...'.::f ttityM •• rt<4F.j£iJK.Jt: .tV«V«ae* MWiV&Sr*
«
«: ,s*#A Iv^ankil
£iXl*slglSl
zfir
SkSS
r jj- ~ ■•'.fj.vi
: /:a
?55iS
t^avs
rJy&m
f .--
S?f& v 'S
JSTJS’ was
Svif'-'j; r«4’M
s®k ,<?\X. p. jrV. #..«
■
flit*
m
sa*'
was*®*
’
>p- ;.0'
■M
S\4f
mmMk h> w m ja
MW/ dJ
2SS
m
iJv;
/
yy.-UMb
fit
-
npMf
wii
'A
WW-$&
mamm
W£*ak
LT
rM
Wmi
m
HP
■risi
i
H f
; ; a
*-3vwS
Ciqe^rs
u
m
mm
i *?£
c^/rf
!im
'S
/■
'fWf
TOI
lull
/
<4
Cobra,” Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Says,“Now boys, here’s
Fun for you!
“Christmas-time has
Come at last!
“Open up now
Make it fast!”
Everybody
Sets to work;
It’s a job that
None would shirk.
Everywhere there’s
Fun and play.
What a “COBRA
Christmas Day.


Smartness & Economy Allied
in Farmer's Panamas & Felts
SR73.—Men’s Genuine South
American Panamas; brims 2%,
2%, 3 inches wide.
Prices 21/- 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
SR74. —Lounge Felts; low crown;
brims 2 % and 2 % inches wide,
with cut edges. Colors: Brown,
Fawn, Slate, Grey with Black
Band.
Prices 10/0, 12/6, 14/0
Stetson’s, this shape. . 25/-, 39/0
We Pay the Carriage.
Farmer’s, Sydney
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
4
§
ST? 78
SR74,
Jr A
fir wide and
f comprehensive
range of Saddles for
Cycles and Motor Cycles
is listed by the house of
BROOKS
but one quality, and that un-
equalled distinguishes
them all.
OF ALL DEALERS
ĝ
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, December 18, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A Christmas tree is being prepared in Mel-
bourne for the children of Anzacs. Lady
Helen shot the idea into the air and Mrs.
Pearce, Mrs. Hughes and Mrs. Sellheim
caught it in their hats.
Margery Moss’s wonderful husband is now
Colonel Dare.. As most people know, he
left here - a mere lieutenant, but quickly
dashed up to a crown, and now, at the age of
27, is Colonel. Invalided out of the firing-
line in France, he has been given command
of a camp in England. The little girl-bride,
who went to London to flat alone, is over-
joyed.
Young Gilchrist, son of the leather mer-
chant who is President of the Leather Asso-
ciation in Melbourne, has been appropriately
transferred • from the infantry to the
“Leatherheads,” i.e., Motor Transport
Corps. The soldier boy has a rare tenor
voice, and’ was studying quietly and dili-
gently before the war in hopes of a brilliant
career.
Poor Young Stan Benjamin, lately re-
ported “killed in action,” was the gay
young bachelor brother of Leslie and a son
of the old Jewish knight. Melbourne people
knew him well as a yachtsman of great
skill.
Chester Manifold, of Talindert station,
Camperdown, is a lonely squatter these days
and begins to wear his years heavily. His
young son left school to go fighting in France
and his only daughter married naval man
Adams, who gave up the sea for sheep—-
until the war began. Then hubby rushed off
to find a ship, and is now in the North Sea
while his wife waits in England. Mrs. Mani-
fold also went to England to stand by, and
poor Chester himself had to come back from
a trip to sit up with the sheep and order the
cows’ breakfast.
Brother Willie Manifold, of Burrymbeet, is
lonely, too. His three boys are fighting, and
daughter Muriel dutifully followed her air-
man husband, Foster Rutledge, to the other
side of the world.
Camperdown runs a swaggah race meeting
in January; but there has been talk of can-
celling the 1917 outing as a wickedness in
time of war. However, racehorse-owner
McArthur; of Meningoort, wrote heatedly to
Mother Argus on the subject. And as
Mother runs side by side with the sporting
Australasian she had to lend an indulgent
ear to the angry sportsman; and I guess
Camperdown will have its wickedness.
One of the Huns’ victims died in Mel-
bourne the other day. He was Lieut. J. H.
Mackay, a young veteran of the 11th High-
landers, who was gassed in Belgium during
the early fighting. The poison stayed in
his lungs and he came to Australia’s warmer
climate in the hope of beating it. Sar-
goods, of Flinders-lane, offered him a soft-
ware job, and he held it until it was time
to go into hospital and die.
The worst of war-luck has befallen the
Toorak Campbells, who have had three
bereavements in as many months. Lieuts.
Donald and Walter were killed in action
within 10 days, Walter after having won the
Military Cross. The death of their father,
John Campbell, last week was partly due to
the shock of the double bereavement.
Judge Johnston is simply wreathed in
smiles since the glad news came along that
his doctor son had earned a Military Cross
by dashing out under a heavy fire and drag-
ging a wounded mate to safety. Dr. Billy is
a popular and a modest youth. His late
mother was a sister to Donald Carbine Wal-
lace.
Dalgety’s lias sent many of its big staff to
the war, so the return of young Len Butler
was made an occasion, especially by the girls
of the office. As the returned soldier passed
through, his skirted colleagues "pelted him
with roses until he sat smiling waist-high in
flowers and deafened with cheers. Lie lost a
leg in the Gallipoli campaign, and has just
been released from an English hospital.
Mrs. Mclnerney, the Major’s wife, has a
brother, Captain Mackenzie Taylor, who has
been on active service since the beginning of
things. Lately he was detailed for duty in
Egypt, where he found time to invent a peri-
scopic camera. That vague thing called the
War Office is alleged to think a great deal
of the invention. I’ve heard of another Aus-
tralian invention of which the same War
Office was alleged to think very highly. Cer-
tainly the appliance was used, and used with
fine effect, in the biggest desert battle to
date. One co., in fact, says artillery couldn’t
have been employed without it. But so far
the inventor hasn’t received even a formal
thank-you from the War Office. Nor the
smallest acknowledgment of any kind.
Tennis-champion Norman Brookes was
lately an hon. lieut.-colonel in England. The
other day London Daily Sketch mentioned
that “Alfred Deakin, the famous Australian
statesman, is his father-in-law.” Mrs. Nor-
man, of course, is a daughter of the South
Yarra Emmertons. It is Mrs. Herbert
Brookes who is Alfred’s daughter. You
couldn’t easily get two sisters-in-law to
exhibit larger differences of type.
The steps of the Athenaeum Club have a
particular attraction for the eyes of fair
damsels just now. The fact that they are often
adorned by a handsome young Russian offi-
cer —who is said to be seeking health in this
land —is responsible. He looks like the hero
of a Ouida novel, and seems to be compiling
a thesis on Australian womanhood to be pub-
lished later in Russia. In his spare time
he gives medical advice, and Billy Hughes
and the Russian Consul are said to be
radiating health in consequence.
Adelaide’s tablets: —
Richmond had its Gala Day on Saturday, the
result being a good cheque for the Repatriation Fund
and an altercation that nearly went from words
to deeds between certain damsels who were unsatis-
fied with the judging of one of the events. On
the same d;iv the Galways went to Brighton for the
annual meeting of the Blind and Deaf and Dumb
Assoc. Their Exes, received the glad tidings that
the institution had wiped £5OOO off its overdraft.
The Wattle Day League has handed over two
more motor ambulances to the Military authorities.
That makes 17. Salute ! I must tell you, too, that
the Wonderland fete brought in about £2500, very
little of which will go in expenses.
Nurse Atkinson, who was invalided home as the
result of overstrain, died at the end of the week.
She had never been well since her breakdown, and
was for some time a patient in Netley Hospital be-
fore she was well enough to stand the journey home.
A great worker and a holder of the Royal Red
Cross.
A women’s branch of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association has been formed here, with Miss Tom-
kinson as honorary secretary. W. G. Mills, Presi-
dent of the F. and S. A., bucked up the inaugural
meeting by declaring that in many branches of the
primary producing industries women had proved as
competent as men.
Lieut. Sandford, who left about a year ago for
England and got a commission in the R.F.A., has
won the Military Cross. He is the younger son of
the late J. W. Sandford. Professor Chapman has
been informed that his son, Lieut. C. G., of the
Royal Engineers, who was killed in Mesopotamia in
May, was mentioned in despatches by General Lake
for “gallantry and distinguished conduct in the
field.” Another item of military news is that Dr.
Ca-venagh-Mainwaring has won a double —his majority
and the Order of the White Eagle from the King
of Servia. He left' as captain of the Field Ambu-
lance of the 3rd Light Horse in December, 1914,
and hardly a man who returned from Gallipoli did
not speak of him without concluding his remarks
with a round of applause.
Red Cross Hospital No. 1, generally knpwn as
Mareeba, is to be closed, as it seems that the Aus-
tralian sick and wounded will continue to be treated
in English hospitals. The huts are to be passed on
to the Bedford Park hospital. The Red Cross Hos-
pital No. 2, at Henley Beach, is to be kept at work
in conjunction with the Y.M.C.A.’s Lady Galway
Club House.
Judge Murray, who succeeded Way both as Chan-
cellor of Adelaide Uni. and as Chief Justice, made
a long oration at the recent University Commern. —•
his first —on the virtues of his predecessor. What
a time the old Chancellor would have had on the
subject of Miss Kitson, who took a Law degree!
S.A. was the first Australian State to give either
.votes or University degrees to women; but, while
it has been getting scores of girl graduates in medi-
cine, science and arts, this is the first local LL.B.
lady. She is only 22, and, as you’ve no doubt read
before, she’s a daughter of detective Kitson, and
will be qualified to appear in court in another year.
Chancellor Murray, referring to the bequest of
books from the late Chief Justice Way, stated that
over 16,000 volumes had been selected. Incidentally,
Uni. students have done the old school proud by
winning one Y.C., one D. 5.0., two Military Crosses
and four other field .medals. Also three ex-scholars
have been twice mentioned in despatches.
On Repatriation Day, run on much the lines of
Australia Day, the takings were over £2500. The
Wallaroo miners have decided to help the fund by
giving a penny per man from their wages on each
working day, a scheme which will bring in about
£lB5 a month.
Freda James, daughter of the Hazelliurst
family, of Toorak, was married at St.
James’s, Sydney, to her soldier just before
he left for the war. The bridegroom is
Lieut. Irwin, of Adelaide, son of the late
E. LI. Irwin. Mrs. Irwin, who lives at
Brighton, journeyed to Sydney with Freda
and her mother and saw the newlyweds off
on their honeymoon to the Blue Mountains.
Sumner Locke, the bright Melbourne girl
whose “Samaritan Mary” novel has greatly
pleased Uncle Sam, and whose play, “Mum
Dawson, Boss,” is shortly to be staged in
Sydney, will on Saturday become Mrs.
Henry Elliott. He is a Ballarat lad who
now wears khaki. Early in the New Year
Sumner intends flitting to N’Yark.
Ivy Clarke Knox and husband Bob are
delighting in the squeals of a boy babe whom
the Stork left last week. If it were a girl
that infant could guess by one look of its
real lace fixings it had struck a rich house-
hold.
. Mrs. Gladys Benjamin, who advertised the
loss of a £lOOO necklace and got it back,
belongs to the wealthy Hart clan: The
family flourishes at Oharnwood, St. Kilda,
which in the old days belonged to the timber-
merchant Moore. Patriarch * Alfred Hart
pulled the house to pieces and added loggias,
grey-brocaded boudoirs and marble bath-
rooms. As a tobacco magnate, these feats
come easy to him. He lately built the big
building, Lizzie House, in Elizabeth-street.
Nancy Grice Howatson, with a small
daughter in tow, has trekked down, from
Bananaland. She has hired the Parburys’
house for town use, and will go to Frankston
to take in weekly supplies of sea breezes
with the parent Grices. The old people still
shelter in something much too palatial to
find a new owner in war-time.
Bowlers everywhere will regret to hear
that spruce little solicitor Louis Waxman is
lying seriously 7 ill in Mount St. Evius Hospi-
tal. He is the proud father of our champion
girl tennis-player, Meryl Waxman. Meryl is
the ideal tennis girl, and always looks like a
delicious mixture of peaches and cream. Her
blouse refuses to crumple and her hair to go
out of curl, so she is decorative to the end
of the hardest game. She is to be married
presently to young Dr. Roy,Lister, who has
seen active service with the A.M.C.
The medical man who has been chosen to
look after Shackleton’s men down amongst
the ice and penguins is pink-cheeked Freddie
Middleton, of Ormond College. He is a son
of W. 11. Middleton, of Ballarat.
Prime Minister Hughes has been basking
in the small-social limelight of late weeks—
fetes, bazaar-openings, prize-giving at girls’
schools, and so on. It is the sort of thing
which a certain kind of politician regards
as a pleasant and necessary part of the
great game. But the old Hughes didn’t. The
old Hughes was the bitter little cynic who
said of ’himself that he needed mercy, not
justice; the new Hughes who has been to
England isn’t easily worried by being told
that he is the most distinguished man in the
Empiah.
Mrs. Nick Fitzgerald is back from Eng-
land, whither she went to see sons Percy
and Frank. Percy—he is Majah Percy—
was recently married to the Dowager-
Duchess of Sutherland, who a few years
back was considered one of the beauties of
the place.
Alfred Levey, who went Londonwards in
the torpedoed Arabia, reached his destination
with the Clive Miller boy in tow and what
they both stood up and lay down in. The
Leveys won’t think of returning to Austra-
lia unless an avalanche of English taxes
drives them out. The family possessions
have all melted under the hammer, the South
Yarra house has been hired out as a hash
mansion and the dog has been given away.
All is over for the time being.
The Best People had to dive into the
nearest tea den when the adored Tommy
Cochran appeared on the Block wearing
a collar of striped red and white linen and
a red tie! But the exquisite young man
repented of his rash experiment and did
away with the dreadful thing. He ex-
plained soothingly to agitated inquirers that
he was inspired by the scarlet and white
awnings that have protected all swaggah
garden fetes since the floods began.
Four flapper hostesses gave an invitation
dance at Royston, Dandenong-road, St. Kilda,
last week. Aileen Roth well, Lorna Embling,
lima Joske and Mary Roxburg were the
charming parties responsible, and the supper
money went to the Mayoress’s Fund. The
girls wore lovely complexions and the dain-
tiest filmy frocks. The were in full
war paint. True, one busy young dame spent
so long arranging the flowers and turning the
ice-cream freezer that she was surprised by
the first guests in her linen overalls. But
she whirred away in a taxi through the inevit-
able rain and came back clad like two rain-
bows and a red-gold sunset. The decorations
were worth everybody’s trouble ; wreaths and
streamers of small, red-pink climbing roses
were everywhere and the big garden would
have been a paradise to the young dancers
only for the rain. However, the weather
saved the chaperons the usual fussing. There
were more than 100 girl guests and a fine
assortment of youths in khaki. The Bowes
Kelly girls and the-Lyells were there in_ all
their warpaint. Noel Creswell, a McMick-
ing, one of the Austins, a Currie and B.
Woinarski were other belles. The young-
soldiers were recruited from approved
families like the Grimwades, Baillieus,
Officers, Armstrongs and Abbots. Mammas
are extremely careful with their guest-lists
these days.
The fine weather having arrived at last,
the Open Sea Bathers’ League is peeling off
and getting into its costumes. There are
special instructors in swimming and life-
saving, and if you feel you can’t have a
dip without belonging to something, ring up
the League at St. Kilda Beach and demand
the key of the ocean.
This is from a man in the trade: —
A year hasn’t taught 'Australia much. Last
Christmas 1 wrote on the scarcity of toys. But
there are plenty this year. There are a few more
Australians —the good ones rather too dear for the
man whose pocket is light, the cheap ones too flimsy
for any healthy child. (You can guess where the
cheap ones come from!) Exploring a warehouse
the other day, I came across boxes of puzzle-blocks
selling retail at 3d. The cost to the distributor
would be about 21s. a gross! Another exhibit was
a set of doll-size kitchen utensils, all stitched to
litho’d card and packed in pictured carton—retail
Sid., cost ss. 9d. doz. And there are printed-tin
locomotives, engine and three carriages, packed in
carton, 3d. ; celluloid babies (Ilun pattern) at half
the old German price; motor-cars, 3d.; boxes of
tin soldiers, 3d. ; half an army corps, with A.S.C.,
machine-gun section, ambulance and bridging train
for about a shilling ! What earthly hope have our
poor old returned-soldier toymakers ,of competing
with that? We must protect them, or they are
■doomed.
The Motor Transport out at Royal Park
camp gave an open-air concert last Thursday,
and the G.-G. pair sat in the front row with
Governor Stanley and his little lady. Provi-
dence sent a faint moon and a soft breeze
without rain. If it had rained there were
enough Generals present •to have court-
martialled anything. The military concerteers
raked in £lOO or so, with which they intend
to buy musical instruments. They have
plenty of talent available, but so far they
have had to depend on their voices and the
camp piano, with Pan-pipes, penny whistles
or flutelets to help. During a recent march
through town, a dozen or so of the “Leather-
heads” were tootling merrily on these toys.
Lawyer Wilbur Anderson, a nephew of Gen-
eral Stanley, is one of the musical crowd.
Melba sent a merry little coo ee back from
the crest of a blue Pacific roller on the way to
Honolulu. She has caught the happy holi-
day spirit and glories in the success her little
Stella Power has made on a Melbourne con-
cert platform.
“Damaged Goods” aroused acute feeling
among the gods at Melbourne Royal the
other night. When Dupont mere uttered
her foolish reference to the fertility of the
poor, implying that the comparative rarity
of the well-to-do kid made it more valuable
than the low-born brat, something like a sup-
pressed snort was heard up above. Later
on, however, when’the nurse was refusing to
risk catching the disease from the dirty aris-
tocrats, the bob rush was able to ease off its
indignation materially. As a matter of fact,
it raised such a tumult of appreciation for
the nurse that the last words of the second
act were lost, and a gripping scene ended in
ineffectual pantomime. Whatever their other
merits may be, the “Damaged Goods” co.
would never make their fortunes in the
movies.
Melbourne amateur theatrical circles,
especially the feminine segments thereof, are
fluttered by the adventurous spirit of four
pilgrim sisters who are leaving next year to
beg fortunes of Unc. Sam. They are comely
Kate Handley and her pretty little sister
Isabel; Allie Robson, whose grace and
charm are assets in her present job of teach-
ing elocution and the dramatic art; and the
stout pharmacist Ethel Leon, whose solid
characteristics are inherited -from her father,
Sam Leon, K.C. They have all been associ-
ated with Repertory Theatre productions,
Isabel Handley having secured marked press
attention on more than one occasion. ■ They
are not in any sense stage-struck rainbow-
chasers, for each has saved sufficient of her
screw as a business girl to keep her well
afloat. If Yank theatrical managers are
blind to their merits, they will still be a
trip to the good ; and if their luck holds, at
least two of them may. vet be starred on tin-
covers of American magazines. If the worst
comes to the worst, Ethel can roll pills at
Toronto, where her qualifications as a dis-
penser will be officially recognised.
Actress Beatrice Day signals distressfully
from England. Son Robin has been wounded
in France; and as he only left school in
Maoriland as.an. eager IS-year-old, it is a very-
big tragedy to his clever mother.
Hal Gye has been discovered wearing a
pale-grey, bridegroomy suit, a bashful, fur-
tive air and a brilliant dark girl on his arm.
His friends have just got wind that the artist
is married, but until Hal is caught and cross-
examined you’ll have to wait for details.
A Melbourne girl writes me that Hilda
Rix (you may remember that she left, here
some years 'ago to study painting, and has
since exhibited in London and Paris)
became Mrs. G. M. Nicholas in October and
a widow a month later. The poor girl’s
husband was Major Nicholas, of the Cole-
raine family. The marriage took place while
he was on a few days’ leave from the Front
to receive the D.S.O. from the hands of the
royal George.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


DEWAR’S
THE THREE GREAT TESTS
OF GOOD WHISKY ARE
QUALITY—TASTE—AGE
Quality is the Essence of Goodness and Fing
Blending. It conveys that indefinable distinc-
tion, which makes a man a prince among his
fellows, and Dewar’s a king among Whiskies.
Excellence in Distillation is a Science; Pre-
eminence in Blending an Art. Dewar’s is a
Mingling of Choice Spirits. Quality stands for
Character, and Dewar’s for the ideal com-
bination of both.
Taste. The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden
Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues
of the memory. In Dewar’s Whisky there is
something creamy and yet not cloying;
something velvety and yet not heating;
something rich and yet not obtrusive; some-
thing crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet
gentle, Dewar’s is the Paladin of Whiskies.
Age
is the Crowning Stage in a series of fer-
mentations. Fermentation means Life. Age
dissipates its roughness, rounds off its edges,
and refines its character, leaving nothing
behind but the Rarest Elixir of Life. Dewar’s
is the Veteran of Stimulants.. It is ripe for
Promotion to your Palate.


TUB
TRIPS
RG
s
>s' :
m
-Mm
msmm ■
ip
The Company’s
Mail Steamers
leave Sydney
every alternate
Saturday.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY RETURN TICKETS TO CEYLON are now issued at the following:
rates:- From SIDNEY .. ..Ist £*G, 2nd £32. available for 75 days
Jrom MELBOURNE .. .. Ist £42, 2nd £3O, available for 72 days
From ADELAIDE .. .. Ist £3B, 2nd £2B, available for 70 days
From Fremantle .. ..Ist £32, 2nd £2O, available for 60 days
For those who have longer time at their disposal some delightful tours can be arranged For
example, Sydney to Colombo via Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, thence to Singapore bv P & O
and return to Sydney via Torres Straits, by Burns, Philp or Royal Packet Company, calling at Java’
Darwin, Thursday Island, Brisbane, etc. Fare, Ist Saloon, it 82. Tel. City 6321. ’
For further particulars apply A. GORDON WESCHE, Superintendent in Australia, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
King George IV
.31 WHISKY
11
(r^-
TH eTOPNOTCH "scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
LEAVE WELL ALONE.
CAPTAIN: “Have you changed the guard yet?”
THE NEWCHUM JUNIOR: “No, sir; the old guard teas doing the job so well, sir, I thought
I'd let 'em stay on, sir.”
Rabbit Expert”: I think this is the
right explanation of why hares forsake rabbit-
infested lands. When rabbits take a place by storm
they are followed up by such hangers-on as the fox,
hawk and crow. These vermin depend largely
on our cotton-tailed pest for food, and as the hare,
having no dugout, is more open to attack than the
rabbit, he is faced with the alternative of getting
out or going under. Choosing wisely, he prefers to
get out and make his home in a less strenuous
locality. Moreover, the ' human occupant of the
property does his share towards frightening away the
hare. When the rabbit becomes troublesome the
farmer wages incessant warfare on the tribe, with
the result that the hare is again mostly affected, for
the rabbit can evade the enemy by taking shelter in
his dugout and remaining there until the bombard-
ment has ceased. On the other hand, the hare has to
trust to his fleetness and cunning. Again, when a
place is netted, the rabbit, being somewhat of the
Darcy type, clears out, and once again the hare finds
his territory invaded by the “hoppers.” Not being
of an adventurous spirit, our long-legged friend pre-
fers to return to the place whence he came rather
than move on to unexplored ground. This is not
written by a city rabbit-o, but by one who was born
in that part of the country where the trapper places
himself far above So-and-So, M.L.A., as regards
weekly screw and intelligence.
* * * *
'‘The Reefer”; The natives in “Te
Pana’s” (B. 16/11/’l6) locality are more careful
than niggers elsewhere if none of them have heen
killed or damaged by falling eocoanuts. In my
part I have happened on to several such deaths and
many casualties. The palms grow up to 70 feet tall, and
even a light-husked, mature nut falling on one’s
head from that distance will result in something
very close to good-night, while a fully-grown green
nut with its husk loaded with sap needn’t tumble
a third of 70ft. to result in a funeral. Everyone of
experience amongst eocoanuts instinctively keeps
half an eye aloft whenever he is beneath fruiting
palms, and walks wide of the boles altogether when
the wind is strong. Hurrying along a native track
one night during a storm, a bomb suddenly exploded
at my feet, wetting me to the knees. It was a
green nut which had shattered to bits.
* * * *
“Pick”: A working bullock on Gidleigh
station, near Bungendore (N.S.W.), put in a rotten
time during the late rainy season, and demonstrated
again the tenacity of animal life. A boundary-
rider noticed the old fellow standing near a wire-
netted fence, but did not approach him. Twelve
cold wet days afterwards, the patrol found the much-
shrunken beef-stack still there. He had hooked an
inwardly-curved horn over the top barbed wire, and
judging by the trampled puddle underfoot and the
much-frayed horn, had occupied the term of his
captivity sawing to and fro between the posts.
When liberated he took a long pull at the creek
and then casually set about making up for lost
time on the clover flats.
THE ROYAL ROAD.
THE GOOD MAN: “Dear, dear, can you not do without such dreadful profanity?”
THE BAD MOTORIST : “Do you never swear ?"
THE GOO D: “Never. I am incapable of such a thing."
THE BAD: "Well, buy a blanked dash motor-car, an' you'll damn soon learn."
1 .N.T.” ; Latterly I have had my ' faith
in the foolishness of the “divining-rod” business
severely shaken. It is possible to get “diviners”
nowadays to contract for bore-sinking on a rock-
bound, no-cure-no-pay guarantee. It is said, of
couise, that the diviner who works on a guarantee
only sinks in country where any shallow bore
would strike water. But the thing has been written
about and discussed so often that the poor fool on
the farm with a bit of spare cash for bore-sinking
might reasonably expect some brainy, capable
geologist to have come forward long ago and ex-
plained, in words of one syllable, just how the
diviner would get the same results without his con-
founded wand the inanimate piece of stick or wire
which is such an obvious insult to one’s intelligence.
Lately I visited a farm on the Yarra Flats, near the
liver, and heard a lot of tales from locals who had
spent money on diviners. The bore on this particu-
lai farm was put down by a diviner using a wand
of copper wire. He specified that the underground
stream was 4ft. wide in a certain place and duly
struck it at 80ft. —good drinking water, slightly
tinged with magnesia. Elsewhere in the same
neighborhood the diviner has put down bores with
equal success. “Yairs, y’ get water anywhere near
the river, o’ course,” is the usual district scoff.
But one Flats-dweller has a deep hole nearer the'
liver than any of the bores, and all he struck was
a lot of hollow noises and a damp smell. One
visiting diviner told a sceptical farmer that he
would get him water in a specified place at 90ft.,
and made the usual promise, on paper, to charge
nothing for the work if the water didn’t arrive. The
doubtful one wagged his head glumly , and said he’d
take it on if the contraetor’d guarantee him fresh
water. The borer took a chance (all the other
bores were good water, of course) and struck a
fine flow at 86ft. Personally lam sure that the
piece of willow or wire has nothing whatever to do
with the discovery of the water; but it would
gratify me exceedingly to be able to tell the guile-
less agriculturist who has faith in the foolishness,
even to the extent of spending money on his belief,
exactly why I think he is a .goat.
* * * *
“Byrimine” : Here’s one for the big-team
competition. Got stuck in Black Sam’s crossing,
Flinders River (N.T.), about two years ago with
12 tons of wool on the Flinders Queen. Owner, John
Conway ; driver, Ted Brierly. Crowded on 50 horses,
five abreast, and gave them every encouragement.
No go. Borrowed 40 bullocks, also enough wire
from a neighboring fence to make a strong cable,
which we fastened to the back axle. Hooked the
bullocks four abreast to the end of this. Seven or
eight volunteer drivers strafed both horses and
bullocks, with energy and anything else that was
handy. The waggon creaked, moved, staggered for-
ward and capsized. Shifted 20 bullocks to the off
side and pulled the old Queen on to her feet again.
Straightened things up, made another concentrated
attack on the unlucky quadrupeds, and finally
struggled across. Time occupied, one day; length
of crossing, 120 yards. Richmond (N.Q.) carriers
can verify.
“Daybreak”: Apropos the proximity of
our little duck-billed friend, the platypus. Gimme
the book. A- couple of years ago I was stunned to
see one waddling across an open paddock to the
homestead on our selection. The creek wherefrom
he had advanced was about 15 chains distant. Time,
midday. The men were at work in the yard shifting
a heap of stable manure, and plat, dived straight
for the diggers and banqueted hungrily on the
worms that were being uprooted. After a good
blowout he spread himself in the sun, taking no
notice of the bipeds or the inquisitive dogs. He
even allowed the boss to stroke him, while the
ENTRENCHED.
FIREMAN : “ What d'ye want to 'ide in there
for? There's no danger now!”
HOUSEOWNER: “Danger! Wouldn't you ’ide
if you'd nothin' on but yer shirt, and
only the collar-band of that anyways
respectable!"
mongs. sniffed and licked him. Occasionally he
wobbled round the house and devoured any table
scraps that happened in the way. Whether the grub-
box in his own dug-out was empty or he’d had a
row with the missus I dunno; but he repeated the
visit on three successive days, returning to the
creek each night to camp. After that the pro-
gramme was evidently revised, for his appearances
were cancelled.
(Continued on page 24 .)
DERELICT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well, it’s twenty good miles to the station,
And the heavens are gleaming like brass.
Ha! it seems that with that observation
I have tickled yon laughing-jackass.
But I’ll stop his confounded guffawing:
And yet—no, I don’t grudge him his glee;
Though I almost could think his haw-hawing
Was levelled at me.
And he’s rig'ht if it is—for, by jingo !
I’m a fool to be riding to-day
\\ ith a beard like the brush of a dingo
And a skin that’s the color of clay ;
With a dirty red shirt on the shoulders
And a battered straw hat on the head
Of the man that admiring beholders
Used to speak of as “Elegant Ned.’’
Ah, well! their friendship was rotten,
As I found when it came to the test;
And my name they’ve by this time forgotten.
But —what of the rest?
What of those who once loved—devil take it!
That drop on my hand was a tear,
And the first for long years; but I shake it
Impatient away, for I fear
■Thai I know what they’ve said, and are saying,
Could I hear them to-day: *
“Oh, he’s only. the penalty paying
Of his chance thrown away—-
Life opened out brightly before him.”
Ay, I Know it! But where was the use ?
I was bound to go, more majorum,
To the dogs and the deuce.
IVas I bound to go? No; I may addle'
My wits with the water that kills,
But I’m not such a fool as to saddle
Blind Fate with my ills.
’Tis the rankest of folly—denying
The part that I’ve played.
I but reap what I’ve sowed, and I’m lying
On the bed that I’ve made.
So I’m sorry, Old Jack, that I blamed thee
For thy laughing at me —since, alas!
Thou art wiser than people have named thee—
And I’m the jackass!
Well, this South Land is strewn with the breakage
Of promise as fair and as fine
As once was my own, and the wreckage
Of ships that were prouder than mine.
What matters for my little shallop?
What matters my puny regret?
So I push the old horse to a gallop—-
And strive to forget!
N.S.W.
ALEX. E. MONTGOMERY.


DAVID JONES’ ORIENT
Two-Piece
TUSSORETTE SUIT
3216
THE “ORIENT” TWO-
PIECE SUIT expresses
—in dependable quality
and moderate price—the
correct note for motoring,
golfing, shooting and all
sports, yet is equally suit-
able for town or business
wear.
Front of coat is exact
as illustration at side;
the back has yoke and
half band, also inverted
pleat, which gives free
and easy movement, and
is the means of coat
reassuming its original
shape.
In Tussorette 32/6
Nan Shan Silk 55/-
Grey Flannel. . 55/- and 65/-
Gabardine .. . 65/- and 70/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Cl
&
&
"a
O
32
<0
jo
E.ST9
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp
G.P.0.,
Sydney
mm
M
■ ■
M
i |ti ; us|
•■ , V ■■ <?
t- VI
-V-::
■
m ,
“Nothing” Suits, “Tussora” Shirts and
Panama Hats -at The LEVIATHAN.
“Nothing” Suits are cool as Ocean Breezes. They are so light in weight as
to give you the feeling of having nothing on. “Nothing” Suits are skilfully taiioied
in the style shown, from strongly-woven Egyptian Cotton Tussorettes, whicn do
not shrink, but rather improve, with washing and
ironing. They can be had in plain or white striped
designs in Biscuit, Straw and Stone shades. Wear
a “Nothing” Suit and enjoy Summer comfort.
“Nothing” Suits
(3 garments)
Coat & Trousers
(2 garments)
Trousers only
Made to
Ready-to-wear, measure.
27/6 37/6
25/- 35/-
9/6 11/6
(Suits measuring over 42-inch Chest, 2/6
extra.)
Write for Free Patterns of
•• Nothing ” Suitings and
“ Tussora ” Shirtings.
“TUSSORA” SHIRTS. —Let us make you some
“Tussora” Shirts to wear with the “Nothing” Suit.
“Tussora” looks just like Tussore Silk —but it
wears better by far, and retains its silky lustre
aftes repeated washing.
Can be had with unshrinkable neck-bands, and
soft double cuffs, or plain wrist-bands to button.
You have your choice of three collar styles
Detachable Tennis; Detachable Double; or
Attached Tennis Collar. Shirts have “split” sleeves
and sleeve-length adjusters. £5/1-1
(With Collar to match). O/ * *
PANAMA HATS. —We have a large and
carefully-selected stock of these cool Summer Hats
in various shapes—with narrow and wide brims.
State size and width of brim when ordering.
JAPANESE PANAMAS. —Extra light weight,
brims, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
WHITE BLEACHED TOYO PANAMAS—
-15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
REAL NATIVE PANAMAS. —Made in South
America, can be folded without crushing—
-25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 33/-
p
u
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swsmston & Bourke Streets* MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-eack
BRITISH-MADE
Pcolumbia^
Lj Records 4J
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
SOME SEASONABLE XMAS RECORDS
Purple Label, 10-inch, single-sided.
Price 5/- each.
X22B —The Rosary. Madame Clara Butt
Purple Label, 12-inch, single-sided.
Price 7/6 each.
7100 — The liost Chord. Madame Clara Butt
7101 — Abide With Me. Madame Clara Butt
7103 —Ave Maria —Violin. Ysaye
7101 —God Shall Wipe Away All Tears.
Madame Clara Butt
7121 — Handel’s Largo. Madame Clara Butt
7122 — Song: of Thanksgiving:.
Madame Elsa Stralia
12-inch Renas, Double-sided
Price 5/= each.
584
INSTRUMENTAL.
In a Monastery Garden.
Court Symphony Orchestra
Destiny Waltz. Prince’s Band
451
VOCAL:
f The Messiah: Hallelujah Chorus.
-i i'he luessiah: And the Glory of the
I Lord. New York Oratorio Chorus
SOI
\ There is a Green Hill Far Away.
!| Miss Carrie Herwin
| Abide With Me. Miss Carrie Herwin
346
457
The Star of Bethlehem.
Morgan Kingston
I The Holy City
I “Elijah”— If With All Your Hearts,
i Reed Miller, Tenor
I “Elijah” —Then Shall the Righteous
272
Shine Forth. Reed Miller, Tenor
f Honor and Arms —from “Samson.”
-I David Bispham
I Why Do the Nations —from
“Messiah.” David Bispham
178
f Jesus is My Light and Song,
j Gipsy Smith
[ Looking This Way.
Anthony and Harrison
283-
, f Where He Leads Me.
) Christ, My All.
Gipsy Smith
283
Just for To-day. „
There is Joy in My Soul. „
284
f Only Jesus.
) Never Give lip.
285
f When the Mists Have Boiled Away
J, —Duet. Anthony and Harrison
l Softly and Tenderly Jesus is Call-
ing:— Duet. Anthony and Harrison
131
O Holy Night. Choir of Church of
Ascension. New York
Softly and Tenderly —Duet.
Stanley and Gillette
211
Nearer, My God, to Thee.
St. Cecilia Quartette
When*the Mists Have Rolled Away.
Anthony and Harrison
497
f Adore and Be Still.
{ St. Cecilia Quartette
[ Christmas Bells. ,, ,,
175
f He Lifted Me. Gipsy Smith
-j Jesus, the Light of the World.
[ Gipsy Smith
176
S Saved by Grace.
| O Beautiful City of God.
177
Pass It On.
Kept for Jesus.
496
f Nazareth. Frank Croxton
■j In the Sweet By-and-Bye.
St. Cecilia Mixed Quartette
MINSTRELS.
334 —Fireside Minstrels, Part 1.
With Orchestra
(Introducing Opening Chorus, “Oh.
Dem Golden Slippers,” solo by
Arthur Collins, “My Dusky Rose.”
Patter —Closing Chorus, “I Ain't
Gwine to Weep No More.”
Fireside Minstrels, Part 2.
With Orchestra
Introducing Opening Chorus. “In
the Morning by the Bright Light,”
Solo by Arthur Collins and Chorus,
“Everybody Whistles Like Me,”
Patter and Closing Chorus, “Melan-
choly Mose.”
420—Fireside Minstrels, Part 3.
With Orchestra
Introducing Opening Chorus, “De
Golden Wedding,” Solo “Angel
Gabriel,” Closing Chorus “Bye-Bye,
Ma Eva.”
Fireside Minstrels, Part 4.
With Qrchestra
Introducing Opening Chorus. “Car-
rie from Carolina,” Solo “Happy
Days in Dixie,” closing Chorus,
. “Balmoral.”
COMPLETE PANTOMIME.
432
f Cinderella, Act 1. Columbia Panto-
1 Cinderella, Act 2. mime Company
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Dakin g House, Rawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. K. Firth, Royal Arcade. V
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street,
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. )
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


vuvwvauvd
oil JLLIDD3W
anlDte
n
tawno Q33SHII
sum;
sft
■h£
FARMERS!
Feed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
Meggitt Ltd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
Martin’s Pills are sold by YV. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment : Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. — Advt. [2
‘*A contented mind is a continual feast”—-you get
both when you drink Martell’s Brandy. There are
no better judges than Britons, and they decide in
favor of Martell’s every time. From George I. to
Gecirge V. Martell’s has been supreme—not only the
favorite in England but in France as well. It is
superior fo'r .social purposes, and being rich in the
higher ethers is also unequalled in cases of sick-
ness.
MARTELL’S BRANDY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [1
THE- GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT **
& RHEUMATIC PULLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand. London.
IP STOMACH HURTS, DRINK HOT
WATER.
A SPECIALIST’S ADVICE.
“If dyspeptics, sufferers from flatulence,
indigestion, acidity, gastric catarrh, etc.,
would only take a quarter-teaspoonful of
bisurated magnesia in half a glass of hot
water immediately after eating, they would
soon forget that they were ever afflicted
with stomach trouble, and doctors would
have to look elsewhere for patients.” In
explanation of these words the specialist
stated that most forms of stomach trouble
were due to acidity and fermentation of the
food contents combined with insufficient
blood supply to the stomach. Hot water
increases the blood supply and bisurated
magnesia instantly neutralises the acid and
stops food fermentation; the combination
of the two, therefore, being extremely
efficient and infinitely preferable to the use
of artificial digestives, stimulants and medi-
cines. It should be mentioned though that
the form of magnesia referred to is quite
distinct from the sulphates, citrates, oxides
or the often met mixtures of bismuth and
magnesia, and to prevent confusion you
should ask the chemist very distinctly for
bisurated magnesia.— Advt:
“Ses”; I have noticed flocks of swans
night after night passing over South Sydney, follow-
ing always the same aerial track and going due east,
a course that would take them right out to sea.
They evidently all get back home before the milk-
man comes round. Does anyone know the particular
banqueting place? The black swan, like the musk
duck and the gnalgan (Nankeen night heron), is
never seen travelling by day unless hunted by shoot-
ers, but it takes long night flights, dropping into
waterholes here and there. As it flies heavily over-
head, with a soft whistling sound and uttering at
intervals its pleasant call-note, the white primaries
and under-surface of the wings are in striking con-
trast to the general glossy black that is presented as
it floast majestically on the water. It breeds in
December in reedy swamps, lakes and inlets, laying
its eight or nine pale-green eggs in a bulky struc-
ture composed principally of rushes. When it sees
the game-hunter approaching it slips stealthily from
the shallow cavity and swims away with its head
and neck stretched out on a level with the water.
When it has placed a considerable distance between
itself and the nest, it will turn and face the in-
truder with its head proudly erect. The common
herons or cranes travel by day, and so do the ibis
and pelican; but nearly all other waders and swim-
mers wander about at night. Now and again in
quiet country places there is a thud and a clatter on
a galvanised roof as the deluded birds, mistaking the
silvery sheen for water, swoop down upon it.
* * * *
“Ped” : Rabbit-trapping as carried on by
the cockies and -their families in Gippsland increases
rather than reduces the number of cottontails. Most
of the traps are set on rabbits’ dunghills, with the
result that, in nearly every case, it is the buck that
is taken. It is a well-known fact that the fewer
bucks there are the better are ma rabbit’s chances of
• increasing her family. About four years ago Gipps-
landers used to poison, and were on the slow but sure
road to exterminating the pest; but as the prices
for “underground mutton” rose the cockies took to
trapping, and now the rapidly increasing curse is
decreasing their lands in value. Rabbit-infested
country (especially country like Gippsland, where
burrowing is such an easy matter) is not much good
either for grazing or for dairying. It’s about up to
the authorities to make trapping—in Gippsland, at
any rate —a misdemeanor, or in a few years the place
will produce bunny and nothing else.
MRS. McFRRGUSON’S HUSBAND.
POLITICAL CANVASSER: “ May I see Mr.
McFerguson?"
MRS. McFERGUSON: “No, you can't!"
P.C.: “I merely wanted to know what party
he belongs to."
MRS. McF. : “Well, take a good look at me.
I'm the party he belongs to!"
“Leo Lear”: “Bad Australian” asks (B.
23/11/’l6) if eucalypts are ever frosted in Australia.
Yes ; but very rarely. I’ve known them to be so on
two occasions. r lhe first time was in'June, 1908, in
the Burnett district of Bananaland. Exceptional
frosts that year cut down sugar-cane to the fringe of
the sea, and ironbark saplings 70 miles inland were*
blackened and. lost their foliage. Again, in July
this year, young stringvbark shoots were withered by
frosts in S.W. Victoria. Both instances occurred
near the coast, where a hard freeze is very rare, so
perhaps the stricken trees would not be toughened
from birth like their inland relations.
* * *
“Joe Bagley”: The heart of the Fijian
native is gladdened now that summer has arrived,
because it brings with it the bolollo season. This
peculiar fish makes its appearance twice in each
year, first in November, then in December. I wish
I could explain this striking phenomenon. The
bolollo will only rise on an exceptionally calm day,
but’ having risen it remains up until sundown, when
it disappears as suddenly as it appeared. The Lili
species in some parts arrives exactly one month
prior to the Levu species, which shows up only in
December. The flesh is very palatable.
* * * *
“W.M.8.”: Recently in the Terry-Hie-hie
Valley, about 45 miles south from Moree (N.S.W.),
a cypress pine log was brought to J. A. Philp’s mill
which measured 54ft. long, and was Bft. 4in. in girth
at the big end. It produced over one thousand
super feet sawn timber. Beat that?
* * * *
“Bilbie”: The McKinlay rush, on the
headwaters of the Cloncurry, was isolated by the
floods of 1870. Damper-dust, sugar and tea ran out;
but Bobby Towns’s store contained a small supply of
rice, cornflour, jam, etc., and a hogshead of gin.
The diggers called a roll-up, at which the solitary
John Hop proposed apd the storekeeper seconded that
the goods in the store be kept for the use of the
women and kids and that the liquor be jettisoned.
Carried by acclamation. The blokes who assisted
at that funeral were genuine mourners, and watched
with sad and longing eye as the sand absoi'bed the
final chop. The siege lasted six weeks, and bullock
was the only tucker the men had.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: Which is Australia’s best
natural fodder? I’m nominating Mitchell grass as
the soundest,, most drought-
resisting, quickest-fattening
and best weight-producer not
only in .this continent, hut
in the wide world. Time
and again Yankees have
spent thousands of pounds
in collecting the seed and
endeavoring to acclimatise
it in America, without
avail. The same failure
attended the Fairbairns in
the Western District of Vic'.
The grass extends from the
western part of Queensland
right through the N. Terri-
tory and the Kimberley
(W.A.) to within about 100
miles of the west coast.
Here are some records by
beasts fattened solely on
this magnificent pasture. 'ln
1895, three fat wethers,
Afton Downs bred, won first
prize at Hughenden (Q.)
show, and when killed
averaged 9911 b. The same
year 27,000 Lerida wethers,
boiled down at Torrens
Creek (Q.), gave up 291 b.
2oz. of tallow per head.
Two hundred fat Afton
Downs wethers which were
frozen by Harry Johnson,
Townsville, and forwarded
to England, averaged 9111 b.
Three thousand Victoria
River (W.A.) cattle, brought
in by the Skuthorps, walked
2000 miles to Burrindilla,
Gharleville (Q.), spelled four
weeks, and then the first
hundred walked a further
300 miles to catch the train
to Muswellbrook. By rail
they travelled 500 miles and
went straight into the yards
to compete with lucerne-
fattened steers. The Sku-
thorps topped the market
with this and further drafts;
Australia’s fattest and heavi-
est beast was a Monkira
(Diamantina R.) bullock,
which footed it into the
Adelaide Show, took first)
prize and beat the record
weight by over 2001 b. for
any bullock slaughtered in Australia.
* * * •
“Gee”: A teamster offered me a job to
bring in some horses. The pay was to be a fiver, but
he changed his mind and got an abo. to do it for £2.
I told black brother what I was' to have got. Said
he: “It’ll be all right, mate; you will get £lO
when I’ve finished.” So off he went, and when
about half-way back he scattered the mob. When I
had finished collecting them the teamster had to
pay me exactly £2O. The station abo. will do me
any time when it comes to getting even with the
man who is not on the level.
“Ojo”: I can tell “Bad Australian” (B.
23/11/T6) something about eucalyptus and cold. In
Central Otago (M.L.) some years ago a bad winter
killed thousands of the trees. It is not only the frost
that settles them; they seem even more susceptible
to cold winds, although on the highlands of Bolivia
a few are to be seen that have withstood the rigorous
BELATED BET COURTEOUS.
MORNING JAGGER (subsequent to misspent
night): "Oh, y' there, are yer? Well, lis'en. Jus ’ tell m’ wife I'm mosht awfly sorry
but I shall -not — be — home — t' dinner — lasht — night."
climate. In Potosi, some 13,0'OOft. above the sea,
eucalyptus can be grown from seed, but the seedlings
have to be kept in pots in sheltered patios for the
first few years. Then they are generally planted out
in the patios, sheltered from all winds and most of
the frosts. When the- foliage rises above the tops of
the surrounding houses the vegetables seem able to
withstand all the wind and frost Potosf can produce
—and the city is no mean performer in this line.
In some parts of South Chile I have known eucalypts
to die of the cold, and yet the climate there is not so
severe as it is in the highlands of southern N. S.
Wales. Incidentally, the Central Valley of Chile —
practically all irrigated—is adorned with rows of tall
poplars along the edges of nearly all the paddocks.
These trees are grown so close together that they
serve as impassable fences. The value of the poplars
is considered to increase at the rate of one peso (say
9d.) per tree per annum, and 25 years after being
planted they can be cut down and sold for 25 pesos.
The wood is used for various purposes where light
timber serves. A Chilean avenue lined with poplars
is a glorious sight in autumn when the lovely red
blossom of its enemy, the quintral plant, is seen
amongst the autumn tints of the big fellows, and
the roadway is carpeted inches thick with golden
leaves. Nowadays - eucalyptus are often seen in
place of the poplars. They take only about 15 years
to reach the stage the others arrive at in 25 years,
and they are immune from the quintral. But it is a
crime against aesthetics to plant such trees in the
Chilean' Central Valley, which, but for them, is a
beautiful country with wonderful fertile soil, green
fields, vineyards (from which come really excellent
wines, not to mention chicha de uva), marvellous
avenues miles long, and many varieties of English
trees, incidentally, can anyone explain why it is that
Australia should be covered with such a drab earth
fungus as eucalyptus when all other countries have
trees that are a joy to the eye ? This ugly monotony
of so-called forest is quite sufficient explanation of
the conscription vote. I would vote No to anything,
after contemplating eucalyptus for a time. Fortu-
nately, the gum, when grown in other countries,
doesn’t look quite as bad as it does here. I have
seen some blue-gums in M.L. that looked fairly
respectable, but only when seen isolated from the
native bush, so as not to suffer by comparison.
“Boro-Belle”: During recent stormy
weather at Wooroon station, Wondai (Q.), 49 he<*d
of cattle were killed by lightning, which first struck
a gumtree, beneath which the animals were huddled.
When found in the morning the beasts were heaped
one on top of the other. I suspect this to be the
biggest lot of cattle ever electrocuted at one flash.
“S.A.”: There is a little plant in the
Central Western parts of N. S. Wales which I
will back against all other fly-catchers. It is a
small vegetable with yellow flowers, inside of
which are dozens of little red points. In summer
flies, ants and insects of all descriptions are observed
in various stages of demolition and decay in the
tight clutch of these little red tentacles.
“Barcoo” : Herbage springs most luxuri-
antly in West Queensland after the breaking of
the periodic droughts, which, incidentally, have
their virtue in sweetening the pastures after a
succession of good seasons. Of the herbage that
arrives after a long dry spell pig-weed is the
most rapid grower. 'lt almost chokes the Mit-
chell grass for a time, and sheep will have nothing
else while it remains on the menu. It -has the
additional advantage of being 75 per cent, moisture,
so that the beasts have the whole time to put on con-
dition instead of walking it off going to drink perhaps
five miles away. Its effect, though, on starving
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
“Are you drawing my cat, Billy?”
“No. I’m drawing you in a temper wif me.”
sheep sent from drought areas and let loose sud-
denly on it is deadly on account of the undigested
mass in the paunch setting up fermentation and
causing enormous distension of the intestines, with
consequent inflammation and choking up of the
lungs. The animal dies in great agony. Starving
sheep handled by the man who knows are given an
hour on the fodder, then yarded for four or five
hours. In a couple of days the digestive machinery
is in good going order, and then all’s well.


a
m
u
Va
W
- m
r mm
mmmm
► '< „
M
*
■
g iBS
w
i
m
THE DUNLOP
RUBBER MILLS
, O' V-
■
Largest in
Southern
Hemisphere
It Costs You no more to
Specify ‘“Dunlop” "Brand
when purchasing Rubber Goods—the difference is in the EXTRA WEAR
YOU GET. The “ Dunlop” Brand is your guarantee of receiving freshly
made high-grade goods that will give you FULL VALUE FOR YOUR
MONEY-PLUS SATISFACTORY SERVICE. To us it means that
you will keep on using goods of our manufacture. More “Dunlop”
Rubber Goods are sold in Australasia to-day than all the other brands
put together. WHY ? Simply because the quality is put into the
goods to ensure maximum service— and the Public know it. In
addition - there remains the fact that they are made by Australians
in Australia. Amongst the goods we manufacture are
MOTOR TYRES (Pneumatic & Solid)
WATERPROOF GARMENTS & RUGS
HOSES-GARDEN, ENGINEERING, &c.
MILKING MACHINE REQUISITES
CYCLE TYRES
TENNIS BALLS
VEHICLE TYRES
RUBBER HEELS
PLUMBERS’ GOODS
MINING GOODS
ENGINEERING REQUISITES
RUBBER INLAID MATTING
SPORTING GOODS
Etc. Etc.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
FOUNDERS OF THE PNEUMATIC TYRE INDUSTRY. ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
Area,, s% Acres
1400 Employees
YOU can


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taKen at the commencement of a Cold; but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to maKe any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE —a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
&
am
rsr
kv
v>
S 3
>s
1
13.
£1
From all CHEMISTS and STORES
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney, N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Ancient mum-
mer Cowham is all out in his reminiscences
(B. 7/12/T6). G. V. Brooke and Barry
Sullivan never met in Australia. The former
left in 1861, and the latter only came when
he found Brooke had left these shores. I
cannot place Cowham, by the way. Cer-
tainlv he never played in early Melbourne
on the same stage as Brooke and Sulli-
van. If he did play with Brooke he is pro-
bably confounding H. N. Warner with
Sullivan.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the “School for Scan-
dal” (B. 7/12/T6). The greatest Mrs.
Candour that Melbourne ever saw was Mrs.
Vickery, nee Richardson, of Drury Lane,
imported by George Coppin to support G.
V. Brooke* Brooke, by the way, many
times played Joseph Surface. Mrs. Vickery
. was also excellent as Lady Macbeth,
Emelia and Volumnia. ■ In stately, matronly
characters she had no equal. Incidentally
she fell down some steps at the rear of the
old Theatre Royal, Melbourne, broke a leg
and was laid up for a long time. On her
recovery, or partial recovery, a benefit was
given her. Leaning on the arm of Brooke
she thanked the audience. But she did not
live long after, and was buried in Melbourne
General Cemetery.
Still another darling of the gods has
answered “Here!” Wallace Brownlow has
enlisted with the A.M.C. in (Queensland for
special service.
“Dr. Bloque”: Dr. Nil’s case (B.
30/11/T6) is an interesting testimony to his
professional skill, but inconclusive so far as
the teachings of “Damaged Goods” are con-
cerned. I have seen a good deal of the
results of syphilis in a new generation, and
would prefer to watch that “fine kid” for a
few years before cheering about anything.
Three instances in this line more or less
irrelevant to “Damaged Goods” recur. A
gay youth became engaged to a wealthy girl
during the roaring Melbourne boom days. A
medical friend who knew his condition sug-
gested deferment of marriage and vigorous
treatment. The suggestion was rejected)
the .marriage took place; and after six child-
less years of chronic invalidism the wife
underwent an unavoidable operation which
negatived all chances of future offspring.
That was gonorrhoea. A medical man
attended the wife of a wealthy business man
during her confinement. The child was born
dead. A month afterwards the doctor noticed
a sore on his own finger, and felt ill and
out of sorts. Before the condition was recog-
nised he had infected his young wife. That
was syphilis. The last of these gruesome
reminiscences is one related by Bronardel,
the French pathologist. A young shop-
keeper in Marseilles saw his wife off for a,
holiday, and on the way fell in with a former
best girl who had joined the tarting profes-
sion. In a house whither they adjourned
she died suddenly. He was arrested, and
released after police inquiry of the explosive
Continental variety. His wife left him and
began legal proceedings for the recovery of
her marriage portion. This ruined his busi-
ness. Meanwhile he developed all three
forms of venereal disease one after the other
and wound up by committing suicide.
“Glen H.” : A ’Frisco paper contains an
account of “a beautiful and petite young
woman” who was seen to plant a kiss on
the face of a nigger with whom she had been
in earnest conversation in the street. The
paper mentions that the lady was “Miss
Daisy Jerome, an Australian actress, who
arrived here a few days ago.” The accom-
panying yarn was to the effect that Daisy
had lost a priceless diamond and sapphire
brooch, and the cullud pusson, having seen
an ad. relating to the missing gaud, had
taken the opportunity of returning it to
Daisy, in full view of her press agent, and
had nobly refused a, monetary reward. Inci-
dentally, it looks as though Daisy holds the
opinion that if she can’t boom herself by
kissing niggers, she should at least be able
to do the trick by mentioning that she is an
“Australian,” which, of course, is very flat-
tering to this part of the Sufferin’ Hemi-
sphere.
“Reel Five”: Where do the old films’ go
when they die? To “the Islands,” my boy.
And “The Purple Sin” and “Where Are
My Wife’s Relations?” are so badly
scratched by the time 75 suburban and
country operators have done their worst
with them that the simple savage has the
idea that it is everlastingly raining in the
countries where the things are concocted.
“Norbell”: Surely “De Oriel” puts too
low a price on the second-hand belltopper
that the melo. mummer got at the popshop
(B. 30/11/T6) ? Three such lids for a
mere dollar! I went to Ikey myself not
long since to purchase a similar absurdity
for “The Worst • Woman’s Wishbone,” and
couldn’t get one at any price. “All snapped
up by the undertakers,” said Uncle. Mutes,
mimes and an occasional troglodytic M.L.C.
are about the only wearers of the prepos-
terous topper nowadays. On the stage I’ve
seen the same shiny tile do duty for seven
different wedding-guests. The dodge was
worked at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, years
ago, when poor Arthur Dacre “doubled” his
cady with the late comedian, Jack £>weeney,
in Grundy’s “A Bunch of Violets.” It was
not a property lid that time, but the radiant
stovepipe that Dacre ahv s wore in the
street.
A Jap picture-showman somewhere in the
Islands announces that he has a new Chap-
lin comedy film for hire: —
Dearest Sir, —Reminding to your memory the
assertion that in return for the payment of great
remuneration am I the rightful owner of these most
newest comedy picture films recreated by the most
famously and honorable Charles Chaplin, I have the
desirability to replace under your nose the most up-
to-date thereof. Notability .extending circularly about
the globe has come unto Mr. Chaplin, and when his
appearances shall be in your exquisitely picture-theatre
house, you will have therein a high personage whose
weekly increment is £2OOO each week. The picture
will show the entirety of Mr. Chaplin. He will
walk about, hopping through, and giving vent to
tricks of such humorousness that wide outbursts of
jokes will ensue, and people will occupy every seat
in your sitting accommodation which to the utmost
brim will be replenished.
It was done in French, too.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“X.Y.”: Mention by “Analyst” of the
desirability of thoroughly investigating dyes
produced from local material, reminds the
writer of the home-made colors he saw used
in his childhood. His youth was spent in a
community of which a considerable propor-
tion had been small sheep-farmers in the
highlands of Scotland. There the people had
been accustomed for ages, not only to spin
and weave their wool, but also their flax.
In Australia, while Scottish settlers no longer
did any spinning, much less weaving, they
continued to apply their skill in the pre-
paration and use of dyes for skins. These
were home-made, and were also used with
perfect success upon vegetable matter, such
as corn-huSks and cabbage-tree plaits. That
they were “fast” is evidenced by the fact
that hats upon which they were used wore
out before the color. Black was produced
by a decoction of the leaves of the garden
fig and also from the spatlies of the plan-
tain bunches and the wild apple. One color
was highly esteemed, especially by those
who came from Skye. It was bright golden,
prepared from the young shoots of the pop-
lar tree, and was the only tint besides
black used in the McLeod tartan. Many
years after I had nearly broken my neck
collecting the material for its preparation, I
was amused to read, in a German techno-
chemical formulae book, directions for making
this “new and valuable dye.” The valiant
women who first made it are all dead, and
their knowledge apparently died with them
so far as Australia is concerned.
* * * *
“Snell”: Travellers in a Tait carriage
going into Melbourne the other afternoon
had an unusual entertainment. A second-
cbmer had greeted a man who was alone in
the next compartment, flinging him a surly
good-day. Then followed a few constrained,
commonplace remarks, ending in a brusque
demand for settlement of an account. Hot
words' followed. The debtor was understood
to say he would see the creditor eternally
burning before he would pay. There was a
scuffle and a fall. When the next compart-
ment arrived on the scene the creditor had
the debtor down, and was fumbling about
his face. Apparently he succeeded in his
mission, for he was next seen to hook a full
set of false teeth out of the mouth of -the
prostrate wretch. These he put in his
pocket; after which he moved off and seated
himself elsewhere. He explained that he
was an unpaid dentist who was getting his
own back.
* * * »
“Chloe” : A likely paper-making material
to experiment with is the fibrous stems of the
Scotch thistle—the pest which in parts of
Australia reaches a height of from four to
six feet. Along the banks of many Gipps-
land rivers are acres of good ground covered
with the vegetable Black Watch. The fibre
is equal to that of flax, and should certainly
have a commercial value. The Huns have
already succeeded in making a good rubber
from the milky juice of far inferior speci-
mens, and investment in thistle plantations
might yield a better return than shares in
rubber estates in the tropics. In Australia
you cannot stop the growth of the rubber-
producing thistle. In many parts of the
Island tropics the rubber tree, which grows
so well in prospectuses, cannot be induced to
flourish. Even when it decides to live, no
yield can be obtained for at least four years.
The thistle reaches its maturity within a
year.
“F.N.T.”: I’ve been digging into the
finances of the milk business. On the farm
Strawberry and Daisy are assembled in the
morning, hand-fed, milked and removed to the
paddock. Same at night. The milk is put
through the cooler, canned and sealed, and
then carted five miles to the railway station.
Meantime, of course, the cow-crops are being
grown, chaff is cut, cans scalded, horses
toileted, and so on. The dairyman’s job con-
sists mostly of sending the boy to the depot
for the milk and running round with it to
the customers. The dairyman charges sd.
a quart (it was 6d. until the other week). Of
that the dairy-fanner gets only 2d., out of
which he has to keep his cows and pay for
his farm. The distributor merely has to have
a horse and cart and a couple of cans. The
farmer has to have them, too, in addition to
all the rest of the plant. Then we wonder
why the young men, instead of staying to
make fortunes on the land, come up to the
city and take a cheap job on the trams. Co-
operation, co-operation in buying and selling
—there’s no hope for a prosperous rural
population without it. Why don’t Agricul-
tural Departments take that job in hand?
* * * *
“X.Y.” : Steps are being taken in Maori-
land to form a company for the purpose of
making paper from the local pine timbers.
While N. S. _ Wales has not a sufficient
supply of native pine or other soft white
brush timber to encourage similar enter-
prise, . we have a timber as good, if not
superior, in the blackbutt. When dry, un-
painted blackbutt is exposed to the sun and
rain, a rough natural pulp is produced upon
its surface by the action of the weather.
This pulp is yielded in large quantities ;
wherefore a country producing the timber is
infested with hornets which build paper
nests. This paper is tough and durable, and
much. resembles the old hand-made article.
Certainly, it is of a grey color, but
could be readily and cheaply bleached white.
The best of the blackbutt country lies
between the Manning and Macleay rivers and
extends from the coast for about 20 miles
inland. The timber has the added value of
being the most rapid grower of all the
eucalyptus family. In 1898 the writer saw
mill logs 70ft. in length, with centre girth
of Bft., which had been cut on what had been
absolutely clear wheatfields on the Lake
Innes estate. These trees must, therefore,
have grown from seedlings since the early
’so’s.
* * * *
“Karaji”: The people who are investigat-
ing the properties of Australian timbers for
aeroplane purposes are overlooking l - the best.
Our black brother centuries ago discovered
that the mangrove supplied the lightest and
toughest material for making shields. Those
made of hardwood wei-e only three inches
in breadth, because if made larger they
would have been too unwieldy. But by using
mangrove the warrior was enabled to have a
protector about a foot in width, three feet in
length and three-quarters of an inch in depth
at the thickest part. No spear would pierce
it, no waddv crack it. This valuable quality
is due to the fact that the fibres run in
three different directions, and that the direc-
tion of growth of each layer differs from
that overlying and underlying it. Why this
should be so no botanist has yet explained,
but I wouldn’t bother about that if I was
thinking of manufacturing aeroplanes.
* * * *
“Tiaki” r Henare discusses the morato-
rium. Thus his letter to a creditor:—
Mr. Wooling. Dear Sir, — I receive your notes
these morning. I am sorry that I cannot undertake
it the arangment or the order for your stuffs vvhitch
I buy from you. In regarding your letter sented
to me it make me dispointed. Why! Because you
right enough the trouble is the purchas money
through to my famely Macrath have not paid to the
Board yet. Well, poor fellow couldn’t do anything
at present because we are -in bad time now I tell
you Mr. Wooling. Don’t tried to stuff me up with
some other people debt why you mind your Own.
Let them do what they likes for their own debt.
If they summons me I know the new act now they
can’t put me in jail if I debted up in the war time.
But those before the war started they might do
that on to me. Mr. Wooling I know too much for
those sort of business. Therefore you must be quite
mind your own debt. That is all I am going to
tell you. — Yours trulev, Rawiiiri Te Toartht.
* * # •
A Maoriland trader was handed some-
thing new in the way of a guarantee re-
cently by a Japanese merchant. It was a
sword. “If,” said the Jap, “I do business
with you and I fail to supply you with the
proper article, send the sword back to me,
and I will commit hara-kiri.”
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: The Greeks score again!
The swarthy sweaters can keep their Mel-
bourne soft-drink germ-dispensaries going
till practically any hour they please. But
when Farthing, of the Assembly, moved an
amendment of the Liquor Bill to allow hotel
bars to remain open after 6 o’clock for the
sale of non-intoxicants, it was turned down
by 29 to 19 votes. Thus the door is banged
on the native-born trader and opened to the
oily alien who sits on the fence and winks
the other eye.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: Lately I have reason to believe
that there is no longer any lack of piratical
enterprise in the Melbourne tradesman. Only
by exercising eternal vigilance can a woman
escape being “done in” day by day. Accounts
are almost inevitably wrong. Discovery
never discourages; Mr. Tradesman comes up
smiling every time with his happy, hopeful
little errors. If you turn him down it is only*
to find the other fellow at the same game,
and perhaps less cordial in accepting correc-
tion at your hands. I believe war condi-
tions have lifted chicanery into an unswerv-
ing, almost general, blushless policy, and
loosed upon the unwary housewife a ravenous
class of Get-Rich-Quicks who have even
mouldier morals than Wallingford.
BROKEN HILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Broken Hill’s the place for silver,
Goal of many a thirsty quest ;
I who seek for spending silver
North and south and east and west
Never yet have quite attained it,
Though I keep on tramping still;
There are lots of broken bottles
On the road to Broken Hill.
I have knocked about Australia;
It is worth a knock or so ;
And my quest is simple silver —
Spending silver—as I go
To wherever toil awaits me
That an empty purse may fill;
But there’s lots of broken bottles
On the road to Broken Hill.
’Tis a wide and golden country
From whichever end you start;
I, who’ve tramped its many highways,
Know its best and worst by heart;
Bitter disappointments meet you,
And their stress ‘seems like to kill —
There are lots of broken bottles
On the road to Broken Hill.
Oh, it matters not your labor:
You may work at driving piles,
You may tramp through reams of paper,
Or may write in dusty miles ;
’Tis a search for spending silver
Keeps the old world jogging still,
For there’s lots of broken bottles
. On "the road to Broken Hill.
Some have reached the silver city,
Where they rest in pleasant shade;
But in cheques upon the morrow
Is the bulk of mankind paid.
What’s the odds? Although the finish
l)Iay behold us tramping still —
Well, we’ll see the broken bottles
On the road to Broken Hill.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
THE SIMPLE LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In memory of the late coal strike and in anticipa-
tion of the next.
Progress is shedding her • petticoats pink,
Loosing hen ribbons and freeing her feet;
Naked as Nature she runs with a wink,
Tripping the, folk in the darkening street.
We’re all going bach into Eden again —
Heigh ho! for the leaflet that swings in the rain!
Work has a notice “To Let’’ at the door,
Hunger is frying an egg in the yard,
Drums of djsaste'r may rumble and roar—
What does it iftatter when Folly’s on guard?
We’re all gointj' back into Eden again —
Ilcigh ho! for the apple that falls in the rain!
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.


/
&
r
29
O :
3
Ju
a®
as
oo
o
iHJ
a
R
hiazm
«*»
1
03
a_
c
vr
o
r
1
0
\
b
ggi
"k
y
o
er
*3
%
k
ik
&
M
f
4a
y&?%^
THE SULTAN FINDS ALADDIN’S G.E. ELECTRIC FANS A DECIDED IMPROVEMENT
ON HIS OLD-FASHIONED FAN-SLAVES.
Aladdin Series
No. 8.
0
4 Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering: Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ğ
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
-Agents-
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd.
Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold half-round maceiet
with Safety Chain, plain or engraved, 25/- 30/-
£2, £2/10/-
Isct., £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-, £4.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, or Pearls and Turquoise,
25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, extra-heavy, richly en-
graved, 30/-. 15ct., 50/-;
Plain, with Initials engraved,
same price.
A. Saunders’ Hunting Keyless
Lever, 30/-. Extra-quality Silver Cases
and Works, £2/-, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6, £7/10/-.
Rolled Gold Cases, 10 years’ guarantee,
£2/15/-; 20 years £4/4/-; 25 years’,
£5/5/-, £6/6. Solid Gold, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
All guaranteed.
Charming Xmas Gifts
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Sig-
net Ring,
25/-.
Iset., £2.
18ct„ £2/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Cluster Ring,
set pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-;
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold
Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, £5/10/-.
Other styles, £3/10/-, £4, £5,
£6, £7/10/-, £lO.
\ i
A. Saunders'
15ct. Gold
Cluster Drop
Earrings, set pure
double-cut Diamonds,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Sovereign
Purse, 40/-; extra
heavy, 50/-. 15ct.,
£3/12/6. Gold-filled,
17/6. Silver, 7/6.
A. Saunders’
15et. Gold Neck-
lace, set Diamonds
and Pearls,
£B/10/-
All Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Pendant, set
Pearls and Amethyst,
22/6.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, 30/-
A. Saunders’
1 Set. Gold
Ring, set two
Double-cut Dia-
monds and one
Pearl, Oval setting,
£2/15/-
3 Diamonds,
£3/10/-
I
mm
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Half-hoop
Ring, set pure
Diamonds,
£3/10/- _
Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Souvenir Pen-
dant, 10/6; with
Enamel Shield, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George St., Sydney (Opp. Railway Station).
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Snap Padlock Bangle,
£2/10/-. Others, 25/-, 30/-, £2, £3, £3/10/-.
15et„ £3, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
three Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Two-bar
Brooch, set Diamond and four Rubies,
25/-
A Saunders’
15ct. Gold Claw
Ring, set Austra-
lian Redstone,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Xxold Sleeve links,
handsomely engraved,
20/-. 15et. Gold, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Keyless Lever Watch,
15/-. Our Special Non-magnetic Lever,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-. Extra-quality Cases
and Works, £2, £2/10/-, £3. All
guaranteed.
tozjftfima
CURES ECZEMA.
Edewyl, Hannell Street, Wickham, 13/<7/’l6. Mr.
S. Fielder, Randwick. Dear Sir,—lt is with a feel-
ing of deep gratitude that I write to tell you of the
relief I got. from using your valuable remedy. I
have been suffering severely for some time with
Eczema. I got treatment from several chemists and
several patent medicines that were recommended to
me. They all failed to cure me. I was eventually
recommended to try your valuable Skin Cure. J got
relief after the first application, and now 1 am very
pleased to say completely cured. —Geo. Bailey.
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick.
[l
‘■l
IA
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
fĝ
fg
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him*
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to-day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Meiirie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned, Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, . 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, ■ 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Qil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford),. lOd
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain ‘for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2, Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with .Coins,
1/. posted. House Painting and. Papering, 1/2.
m
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable' inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be -posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
W-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~wg
Prop. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. -Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, V-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Datb,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
. your cash. IWEstablished 25 Sears.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking «
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up., Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical 'illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Sd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennaßr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, Cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Street,Sydney (only)


His Master's Voice
-an Urgent Call!
Here’s a last-minute idea for a Christmas Gift that
would no doubt prove more acceptable than any
other. Go to your nearest accredited dealer
(THEY’RE EVERYWHERE) and tell him you
you wish to select a
“Gramophone”
for Xmas.
He’ll gladly play any one of “His
Master’s Voice” Instruments, the only
real music producers. They range from
the handy-sized portable model at
£7/15/- to the magnificent Cabinet
Grands (Gramolas) from £6O.
The “Gramophone” is every instru-
ment in one —it brings the theatrg. the
opera and the WORLD’S GREATEST
ARTISTS to entertain you.
SEE YOUR DEALER TO-DAY.
Look for the Dog Brand.
Cartel*
m
SSAi
“gramophone”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
✓
“ an!) fy
Marine, Stationary & Portabb Engines.
I
THE “SKANDIA” IN GOVERNMENT WORK.
LIGHTHOUSE SCHOONER—4O-h.p. “ SKANDIA” ENGINE.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
You cannot help being
nourished if you take
BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
THE GIFT FOR “HIM.”
You cannot imagine a more acceptable Xmas Gift for
the man who shaves than
THK “PLUM” RAZOR.
It keeps a keen edge longer than any other, and you
can rely on it year in, year out.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Doublo Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
The “Plum” Razor.
An Old and Trusted Friend
with Hundreds of Shavers.
Practical Presents.
Something Really New.
EVERYBODY WHO HAS THEM IS TALKING ABOUT THEM
Savory Double Boiler.
Enamelled Throughout.
It boils inside or on top of any stove,
requiring no attention.
It is a specially-devised double boiler
for boiling and steaming fancy meat-
dishes and puddings, so that they will
be more nutritious and delicious, as
well as economising fuel.
Steam enters sufficiently at the white
arrows to keep food moist and thor-
oughly steam it, whilst surplus steam
condenses and returns to boiler
through holes where the black arrows
are shown. Result —-delicious, nour-
ishing food.
Price, 9/6. Posted. 11/6.
Inter-State, 12/6.
The Hollow-bottom
Savory Roaster.
A low-priced cut cooked in the Savory
Roaster is more palatable and nour-
ishing than a more expensive one
cooked in any ordinary dish.
It roasts meat and vegetables to per-
fection in any good stove. Write for
one to-day. 12in. Round Shape of
Blued Steel. 8/6; Posted, 10/-;
Inter-State, 10/9. ITiin. x 9iin.
Oval Shape of. Blue Enamel, 10/-;
Posted, 11/9; Inter-State, 12/6.
These two Cookers make any Stove
doubly efficient.
“DANKS”
Otherwise JOHN DANKS & SON PTY., LTD.,
“THE STOVE PEOPLE,”
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
dfg
We Manufacture
Bolts
and
Nuts.
We -manufacture Bolts and Nuts of every description in our extensive Works, and
will be pleased to quote you Bolts in any quantity.
We make Coach, Engine, Service, and Pump Bolts, Nuts, Coaclr Screws, Set,;
Screws, Bolt Ends, Tie Rods, Rivets, etc.
We specialise in Contractors’ Requirements, such as for Bridge and Pier', Building,
etc.
Contractors to the various State Railways, Government Departments, all
Leading Mining and Engineering Companies throughout Australasia. .j
MCPKersonfs)
Proprietary Limited
Iron, Machinery and Tool Merchants,
Collins St., Melbourne; and Bathurst St., Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1860.


SPLENDID REMEDY FOR
CHILDREN’S COUGHS.
Mothers all over Australia are making in
their own homes as good a remedy as money
can buy for Coughs, Colds, Whooping Cough
Croup, Influenza, Bronchitis and Sore
Throats. All they do is buy from their
chemist or store 2s. worth of Hean’s Essence,
and add to it water and sweetening matter
enough to make up to one pint. Such a
quantity of ready-made cough mixtures
would cost at least 12s. The beauty of the
Hean’s Essence mixture is that it contains
no paregoric, laudanum or other opium
drugs, which are apt to do untold harm to
young children. — Advt.
Hoyts pictures
George 3*
Two features every night, 3 hours —12,000 feet of film —8 to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Deserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
Bourke S-
_ The PicturcßtocK
Sydney *
HUDSWELL,CLARKE SCO.,
HH
m
LEEDS.
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QMALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. GERMAN, House, Moore St., Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
Asquith is supposed to be anything from
£300Q, to £10,000 a year poorer, apart from
his official salary, through losing the Prime
Minister’s job. No secret was made of the
fact that his father-in-law made him an
allowance “to maintain the position”; but
the clubs have never been able to agree as
to the amount.
In Maoriland the other day a wealthy
cocky, was so enraged about not being able
to get a bigger war profit out of his wool
that at a public meeting he expressed the
opinion that the Government should be
blown up with German bombs. Was he
rushed and charged with piracy or arson
or something? Nothing like that happened
—he was a wealthy cocky. Gut a couple
of days later an obscure wharf-laborer —a
man with 15 years’ recent service in the
navy and good discharges—was overheard
to make some foolish remarks to his fellows
about the unrighteousness of war. A belli-
cose beak told him to pay £20 or go to gaol.
We are taking up new industries and
.making ourselves self-contained all right.
The other week-end three Jap boats landed
5500 tons of cargo at Melbourne. One little
lot was 1500 tons of sulphur, and that’s a
thing we must import, because there are pro-
bably not more than a hundred million tons
of it anywhere in the Commonwealth.
HIS LUCK HAD CHANGED.
STEWARD : “Afraid ice'll be tied up when
we reach Sydney, sir; there's a coal
strike on.”
SICK PASSENGER : “Thank Heavens!”
Holman says he can only go upon what his
financial advisers tell him about the London
money market; and of course he can give no
assurance that he will get what he is asking
for. In short, what can we know of England
who only England owe?
Thri cost of examining the leak of cash at
Canberra amounts so far to £4OOO, and will
run into about £6OOO by the time the thing
is over. Which is another cheerful illustra-
tion of lmw to continue making a mess. The
habit all over Australia is to lirst get rid of
money furiously; next to wait until a loud
smell arises : then employ various persons to
find out what has been happening. The
final process is to put all the stationery and
accumulated knowledge in the ice-chest, let
bygones be bygones, and start another
splodge at a new address.
WAITING AT THE CHURCH.
BETHMANN-HOLLWEG : “It seems, your
Majesty, that the beautiful Peace is not
coming to the wedding. Perhaps she
objects to the Church being in ruins.”
The Senate the other day cut down the
vote for Supply to the Hughes Ministry from
three months to two ; and there was a blaze
of protest in consequence. Yet the Senate
was not only absolutely within its rights, but
did the proper thing. What Hughes wanted
was to get into hiding again until April. The
Senate reckoned that a spell until February
would be long enough. There can be no
doubt about this. During the last two years
the proceedings of the Federal Parliament
have been one long shirk, with the House of
Reps, and the Senate shut and the Ministry
shovelling out cash free from control or
criticism. During the last 12 months the
sitting days have numbered only about a
score. The plea that members should have
more holidav to jo “recruiting” was dis-
honest and irrelevant. There is no more
reason why they should shut up shop than
why cobblers and merchants should. These
two and a thousand others are just as much
interested' in recruiting ; arid their assistance
is far more ’likely to be beneficial.
One point in the N.S.W. Government’s
proposed liquor reform deserves applause.
It is that the Local Option vote shall be
taken on a day other than that of the Par-
liamentary election. This is a step towards
keeping the issues clearer. The tremendous
outpouring of talk and literature on the
liquor question for a few weeks before the
poll tends to make even the gravest citizen
forget the essentials of the political con-
troversy. In Maoriland the long wrangle
between Cold Tea and Booze thoroughly
obscured politics; and the big borrowings of
Ward and others went through without pro-
test, while the to be or not to be of the pub
held the whole stage.
Why all this portentous mystery concern-
ing Gregory Wade and his health and his
trip to America, and the vacant job of N. S.
Wales Agent-General, with Holman making
obscure remarks about being hopeful that
Wade will soon get better and serve the
State in another sphere? Why not be honest
about the other sphere and say at once
what the docs in the streets are. barking !
It would be more decent and friendly tor
Holman to arrange for wade to go away
decorated with the fruits of the Grab than
to let him sneak off with a new sphere in a
surreptitious suit-case.
At the time of writing. Dugald Thomson
is the only one of the GO politicians and ex-
politicians who has returned the life railwaj
pass which Kink O’Malley sent out just
before he went out.
Britain whipped out
a card that might well
have been played
earlier when she noti-
field Uncle Samuel
that she could not
guarantee bunker coal
at British ports for
any vessel that was
not being used for the
benefit of the Allies.
The notification is a
polite hint that the
Yankee trader who
traffics with the
enemy through neu-
tral countries will
have to carry his coal
in his pocket, so to
speak, which will
leave less room for
other things. But it
is also a hint that
Britain, in the un-
speakable folly of her
too-aii'able rulers, has
been all along supply-
ing fuel to the trans-
ports which have been
feeding the enemy.
Tasmania is grap-
pling mightily with
syphilis. A while ago
the State Parliament
voted £5OO to fight
the disease, and in
the past year seven
sufferers were treated
at a cost of £134 17s.
4d. Six of them are
reported cured, so
things are looking
nn, and the turn of
the other 29,993 or
thereabouts will come
in good time. Mean-
while the Chief
Health Officer com-
plains that the only
legislation bearing on
the subject is some
inadequate and obso-
lete provision in the
C.D. Act passed away
back in 1879. But
the Lee Ministry is
too busy trying to borrow enough money to
make ends meet to worry about a little mat-
ter like public health.
The recent disruption in the House of
Reps, accentuates the isolation of George
Wise, the Independent member for Gipps-
land. Wise, who had squatted among the
Laborites before the smash, is now an enor-
mous and influential party of one, with the
Ministerial corner all to himself. This self-
banishment accurately illustrates his proper
position in the House. It is a sturdy inti-
mation to the effect that he owes no mechani-
cal allegiance to Hughes, Tudor or Cook.
When you come to think of it, Wise ought
to be regarded as our ideal Parliamentarian.
A man of high private and political integrity,
he is certainly the sort of member we would
be choosing in 75 constituencies instead of
one if the party g'ame were scrapped and a
system of elective Ministries established.
Even English soldiers are beginning to
suspect that there is something wrong about
the sacred principles of Cobden. Writes
Brig.-General Stone in the October Nine-
teenth Century :
The lack of technical equipment remained a very seri-
ous impediment to training for many months after
the outbreak of war, and was very generally attributed
by officers to our Freetrade policy having permitted
Germany to corner certain essential industries, or
branches of industries, and thus completely hold up
the supply necessary for Army purposes. This mad-
dening handicap to training during the first nine
months of the war converted any Freetraders who
could be found in the New Armies into ardent advo-
cates for making this country in the future indus-
trially independent of any foreign country, at any
rate in respect to every article which might conceiv-
ably be required for the equipment and armament of
our Navy and Army."
But the soldier stopped too soon. Britain’s
Freetrade did more than give the Empire a
stone extra to carry. It lifted that stone
off the Germans. It robbed Britain of
work —which meant soldiers and munitions
-—to give it to the enemy.
N. S. Wales Attorney-General Hall, afte
pointing out that the Commonwealth Con
stitution declares that the House of * „
shall last “for three years and no longe ,
shows a way of beating it. His plan p ov _
W. M. Hughes should ask the BrltlS k
eminent to pass a Commonwealth 1 arlia
ment Prolongation Bill through the
British Parliament, and so make the foolisi
political opinions of Australia a neg S
quantity. Presumably Mr. Hall, who w
once a ferocious Democrat, cannot appre
date the fact that in ignoring Australian
political independence he is putting the Con
monwealth into the Crown colony class ana
inviting rebellion. Probably if the request
were made to the British Government it
would refuse to have anything to do witn 1 •
But that doesn’t make Mr. Hall the les
mischievous.
Frank Tudor lately elicited the amazing
information that among a few thousand
Victorians who recently put in a month s
compulsory training no less than 74 were
proved German spies. They were sent to
a compound; but when the proclamation
was withdrawn the whole 74 were released
and are now pervading Victoria doing all
the mischief of which they are capable.
(P.S. —Astounding, isn’t it? Of course it
isn’t true. But it is true that the 74 were
venereal patients who were turned out to
do far more damage than 74 German spies
could in Australia. We are mighty care-
ful to deal with the spy. We are entirely
at the mercy 4,>f syphilis. For, because it
is a “sexual” disease, the law hasn’t been
game so far to compulsorily segregate those
afflicted with it.)
Anstey, M.H.R., is the distressed victim of
a very elaborate practical joke now being
laboriously worked in his electorate, Bruns-
wick (Vic.). Anstey having said there
was no further need of recruiting here, a
local intellect immediately set about collect-
ing a fund to send him to Europe to rectify
General Haig’s views on the question.
Anstey agrees to go if the money is forth-
coming, and the tragic comedians are putting
a lot of diseased energy into the task of
gathering pennies for the ignoble purpose.
So far, about £2O has been collected. The
effort should end there, and the money in
hand might be devoted to sending somebody
to Kew.
STILL GOING STRONG.
BRIGGS: “What did your wife say about your
stopping out so late the other night?”
GRIGGS : “ Don't ask me yet. When she gets
through with the subject I’ll condense it
for you.”
Joe Cook has a secretary whose salary is
paid by- the Commonwealth ; and as Tudor is
now leading a party it is suggested that he
should have a secretary naid by the country,
too. And what about Wise, who forms a
party on his own.? Why shouldn’t he have
a typist as well ?
WITH NIELSEN'S ASSISTANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Holman, in defending Mr. Nielsen, said that
the latter had come to Sydney for the purpose of
considering the whole position.”
Let us consider the whole position,
Viewing it round from every point.
All the State has gone to perdition;
All our fancies are out of joint.
Labor has split and continues splitting,
Liberals vote with us cheek-by-jowl;
And the hope of Cohen is sadly flitting
From the door where the wolf begins to howl.
AVar is about and above and around us,
Outcasts we with our backs to the wall;
And the hammers of fate are out to pound us
Into something painful and cheap and small.
Fish of the trawlers’ catih seems tainted;
Nothing is as it used- to be;
Office itself is a harlot painted
That fails in the luring of £ s. d.
Let us consider the whole position
AVith Nielsen’s wisdom to help us through—
Wise with American erudition,
He may tell us the thing to do.
He who wrote of the date-palm culture
And- studied the farming parched and dry
May teach us a punch to out the vulture
And make us a shade from the cash-wolf's eye.
He who has been where the graft-scent lingers
And politics bloom; like a gilt-edged rose
And something stays on the smoothest fingers,
He knows how to do it —he knows, he knows !
x.s.w.
CURSE O’MOSES.


1916 Bookstall fc!i
Despite unprecedented conditions in the publishing trade, the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., publishers of the most widely-read
Australian fiction series,
The Bookstall Series of Australian Books
has added several notable volumes to its extensive lists. There
are now nearly
One Hundred Shilling Novels
Sales totalling over 1,500,000.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE HATE OF A HUN” “THE HATE OF A HUN”
Arthur Wright’s great Australian war novel. The story of how the
Germans of the Commonwealth fought for Kaiser find Fatherland.
“THE HATE OF A HUN” “THE HATE OF A HUN”
A few 1916 additions to the Series:
“GRANDPA’S SELECTION,” By STEELE RUDD.
Another of Steele Rudd's famous Selection Stories. As clever and
hilarious as anything this popular writer has produced.
“THE BELLE OF THE BUSH,” By GEORGE DARRELL.
An absorbing, dramatic Australian mining novel, introducing an
ingenious and thrilling swindle, and with a delightful love story running
through it.
“UNDER A CLOUD,” By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
An absorbing sporting novel, full of adventure, and with a strong love
interest.
“SKEETER FARM,” By SUMNER LOCKE.
A first-class story of the Bush by the author of “Mum Dawson, Boss,” and
“The Dawsons’ Uncle George ”
ONE SHILLING EACH. 1/1 Posted.
You cannot afford to miss these GREAT NOVELS OF AUSTRALIAN LIFE.
Order from your nearest Bookseller, from all Bookstalls, or direct from
the Publishers.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The British Wcstintfhoti«lDl ~lK io ~l i ,ll - llll,llllllll !i | i ,,l i , i n| ii |ll, ici |ll ' n,n hiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimihiiiiiii
Electric Meters
and Instruments
m*
h - -, w >
Meters and Instruments of all types are designed,
manufactured, and tested at Trafford Park,
i», lester ’ ky the British Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
There are sufficient types for you to select one
exactly suited to your requirements whether for
switchboard or portable use.
They are sensitive without being delicate and
perfectly dead beat.
They embody all the latest improvements in their
design and construction. They are given a high
giade finish and present a pleasing appearance.
1 hey combine ideal simplicity with permanent
accuracy, unimpaired by temperature changes,
throughout a long life.
Portable types are compact and in neatly
finished dust-proof cases.
The accuracy of Westinghouse meters is a safe-
guard against loss of revenue and their use reduces
inspection and maintenance costs to a minimum.
The highest grade of measuring instruments is
the only grade for your purpose.
SEND YOUR ENQUIRIES TO NEAREST
OFFICE.
f
mmmm
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney.
Elder. Shenton & Co.. Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd..
27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder. Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents in New Zealand: Turnbull and Jones. Ltd.,
Wellington, Auckland. Christchurch, and Dunedin.
imimimimimimimiimiiimimiimmiiiiiimimiiuimiimiimmimmiimifiimimmiiiiiiiii
Works--Trafford Park. Manchester, England.
m i
m
/r: v
"r:
m
Welding’ IBin. diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds.
.//
\
I m\
i *
\ ST/
VA\
-0
V!
/ W
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS,
COG WHEELS, etc.
THE DAY OF THE EXPERT. To-day is the day of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
—who is thorough, efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
be conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THE ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxv-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; he is
at -big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Throughout the world to-day the Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest scientific addition to every engineering
workshop, which, fitted with this process, has an advantage over the opposition impossible Jo estimate. * It is simple,
yet wonderfully effective; its price is trifling, and the plant is portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
or welded at the bench or by the roadside is of no consequence.
Tmt ~ work of Iron or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
f th . e Engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
again. This, too, in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process w ill make new again:—-
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches,' Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Key ways in Shafts.
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states:
‘‘Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd..
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Fyvle & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street,
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH : Geo. Wills & Co., Etd., Murray Street.
M
i
m
s i
Y
■
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetylene Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.


Until the Huns have been forced to the
stool of repentance and reparation the pun-
ishment of their crimes must continue is an
opinion inspired by that wise spirit King
George VI. top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies.with absolute ease. If youi dealei
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
Public Notices.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING CO., NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a General
Meeting of Shareholders in the above-named
Company will be held at the Masonic Murray
Street, Hobart, on FRIDAY, 15th DECEMBER,
191(5 a t 3 p m., for the purposes following, namely :
I.’To receive the Directors’ Tenth Annual Report
•and Balance-sheet, which will be presented
for itdoptioii”. “ '
2 To' elect two Directors. Messrs. M.- Kennedy
and H. G. Gray retire, but are eligible and
offer themselves for re-rlection.
3. To appoint Auditors. .
4. To transact any other or„-»3ary Business of
the Company.
By Order of the Directors,
• 11. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, sth December, 1916,
Some idea of the extent and continual
growth of the motor-car and motor-tyre industry in
Canada and the U.S.A. can be obtained from a study
of the production figures for the Goodyear Tyre and
Rubber Co.’s plants at Akron, U.S.A., and Bowman-
ville, Canada. Based on the record for one day
made in June last, when 29,976 tyres were turned
out in 24 hours, it means that in one hour Goodyear
turned out over 1200 tyres; each minute twenty
tyres were manufactured; every _ third second a
complete tyre was finished. Imagine them shooting
at that rate out of a large chute into a huge bin,
and then keeping on in a steady stream for
hours. The average daily production is somewhat
under this record day, but even at that, the nuniiei
of tyres made and the material that goes into them
reads into such figures as are absolutely amazing.
.For instance, each hour one and a half tons, approx-
imately, of cotton fabric is manufactured into t>ies
—this is at the rate of fifty pounds per minute, in
each hour nearly seven tons of rubber and compoui c
are made into finished products, or about 250 .poun
per minute day and night throughout the year with-
out cessation. The Goodyear Company through con
bined production of their two plants, is the laig.
■ manufactprer of tyres in the world, a positio
attained mainly by the consistently high quality
their goods,, which are now more than proving
worth on the roads of Australia and .
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The N. S, Wales Legislature has passed
the Tote Bill, and in a few months the machine
should be operating on some of the courses. The
discussion in Parliament ranged around a variety of
questions having not much relationship to the
innards of the Bill—about whether gambling was a.
“sin” and all the rest of it. Also the proprietary
racing clubs came into the controversy, mainly in a
disguise which this page refuses to take seriously.
As the measure now stands it appears that any old
thing calling itself a racing club can get the tote,
although no concern which is not directed by Gov-
ernment proclamation to instal the instrument may
put it in. If a club is directed to put the machine
in it can omit to do so apparently at a cost of '£loo
a day. But the great blot on the Bill as originally
drafted remains in the Act, and that is the running
of the totalisator in double harness with MacShort-
odds. No one attempted to show that any advantage
is likely to be derived by the State, the public or
racing from having both the machine and Ikey in
operation. It is impossible to make out a case for
this double.
There is room, perhaps, for difference of opinion
as to whether the totalisator, as the sole medium of
wagering, would lead to more betting than goes on
at present with the books, The view Tiie Bulletin
has always held is that it would not, and even if the
result was to increase wagering the consequence
would be less calamitous than the method hitherto
followed. But that the addition of the totalisator
to the previous system will increase betting is
not doubted by people who know what the effect of
the totalisator’s use has been in Maoriland. All
through the prolonged argument advocacy of the
totalisator has rested upon the contention that its
introduction would enable racing to be purged of
the bookmaker —that it was an honest and fair-
dealing substitute for a crowd who would be doing
more useful work growing spuds. The plan adopted
in N. S. Wales is based upon the theory that Ik'e
must be maintained at the old address. The system
may lead to a certain class of book being blotted
r" t. It will certainly lead to another class coming
forward.
* * * *
In Bananaland until recently tote divi-
dends were not paid beyond the shilling, which
meant about ,£5OOO per annum extra to the Q.T.C.,
and in the case of proprietary racing John Wren
was the beneficiary. Boiled down it meant that if
there were 1000 on the winner or the second horse,
and the dividend worked out at 19s, lid., the un-
complaining investors received 19s. only, and lid.
to .the number of 1000, equal to £45 16s. Bd., went
into the coffers of the Racing Club or John Wren.
Not bad for one race. Think what it meant for 52
racing days in a year, with six races each day, and
two . horses on which dividends are payable in each
race. Fihelly altered all that.
* * * *
The totalisator is going to be a better
taxing machine in the Speck if the Lee Government
has its way. The State now gets only 1 per cent.,
while the clubs hang on to 9 per cent.; hut a bill
just in proposes to bump the State’s share up to
per cent., leaving the club’s lot where it is. It
also provides that the machine can’t be used by
proprietary clubs, which, if carried, would be a
nasty jolt for the trotting people. As to the broken
mone.yj in future that is to go to some charitable
object approved by the Chief Secretary instead of
being collared by the racing club. The bill is likely
to pass, though there is of course a kick against it.
“Mujik” : When people talk of £5,000,000
going through the totalisator in a year, of course it
doesn’t mean that number of distinct and separate
quids. In the course of its beneficent operations the
tote returns 90 per cent, of its holding on each race
to the successful backers. This oh at any rate a
large portion of it goes back into the machine (for
the man who is winning usually tries to do it some
more) and is distributed among other backers, less
the 10 per cent, each time. Racing clubs have
always speculated on this question of how many dis-
tinct pounds are played up on a day’s racing where
the totalisator is working. Supposing the total on
six races at the end of a day was £24,000. How
much was actually in the gamble ? Say the punters
took £12,000 to the course, and dumped £4OOO on
the first and every other race. How much do they
carry away from the scene of hostilities after back-
ing all the winners? Seems to me that, even if all
the races were won by favorites, you cannot make
more than £9600 of it. And after the next day’s
racing, if that lot were taken to the course, no mat-
ter how much might apparently go through the
tote, the public would only take away £7200, again
assuming that £4OOO went on each of six races. I
don't want to • find fault with anyone, but backing-
horses is inexpressible foolishness, whether you do
it with Ike or the tote. After 20 rounds with a
citizen’s quid there isn’t enough left to buy a corn-
plaster in either case.
Unless there are strong influences at work
..in the opposite direction, there will be no expensive
' tote installations in N. S. Wales until the new
Exchange Electric machine has been put to the
test at Gawler (S.A.) ; and that is expected earl}'
in the New Year. It is the Gabriel patept, whereof
the Sydney and Melbourne racing clubs have been
duly warned. Its advantage over the original “one
stand” totes is that it permits of branch establish-
ments at various parts of the raceground, every bet
made at an outlying station being at once regis-
tered at the main station. AVhen the betting is
turned off at the main the out-stations close auto-
matically, and the grand totals are recorded before
the race is decided. If the E.E.T. proves a success
at Gawler, its installation elsewhere seems bound to
ensue. Stead and other Maorilanders who have seen,
the model at work are bitten with the idea.
* * » *
Twelve months ago Foil (Bright Steel —
Quatre-foil, both imp.) was prominent in Sydney
racing because he appropriated the Summer Cup with
6st. 91b. on board. Now it looks as' if he may
struggle into the glare again on Boxing Day, with
only ■ nine pounds extra to hump. Foil is a more
than useful gelding, and the fashion in which he
appropriated the Warwick Farm (Sydney) Handicap
on Saturday, with 7st. 121 b. in the saddle, suggests
that very little more improvement will be necessary
to land him among the placegetters in coming big
events. The erratic Karamand King was second to
Foil at the Farm, and he, too, is a possibility in
the near future. First and second in this event
were ridden by brothers —AY. and A. Callinan.
* * * *
If eA r er there looked a racehorse certainty
it was Robkin in Warwick Farm Juvenile Handicap
on Saturday. This colt (lie is by The Welkin)
started favorite in the Breeders’ Plate at Randwick
in the Spring and led well into the straight before
he was captured by more seasoned youngsters and
ended in fourth place. Since then Robkin had not
been stripped for action, but all the same was given
a wonderful chance with only 7st. 121 b. to carry at
Warwick Farm. The writer firmly believed that
Robkin would start at ockls-on, and was consequently
looking for explanations when Ike offered 2 to_l.
Later lie drifted to fours, while Nancy Sykes, which
had won at Moorefield a week earlier, became favorite.
But Robkin won, despite his failure to begin nearly
as well as he did at Randwick. He will, win again.
He is in the December Stakes.
£ * * f
It is not often that 11. R. Denison’s colors
are seen in front at the business end of a race these
dues. But Australienne, a mare by St. Amant—-
Australia, the dam imported by Air. Denison, landed
the Farm Stakes at Warwick Farm for him on Satur-
day. She was lucky to beat Chain Lightning.
Heads separated the placed horses, Redmond, the
favorite, being third. Redmond, by the way, ran
third in the Maiden Handicap earlier in the day.
For that event he was also first choice. He must
therefore owe the people behind him a few dollars.
Australienne is trained by Tuckerman, who was fore-
man for Isaac Earnshaw. AVhen Earnshaw went
out of business Tuckerman stepped into his shoes.
The Denison candidates have always been under the
one roof. It was Earnshaw who prepared Poseidon.
* * *
In the struggle to make the races more
popular with owners the V.R.C. committee has cut
down the distances at next year’s Autumn meeting
at Flemington. The E--sendon Stakes is experiment-
ally reduced from a mile and a half to a mile * n 7
a quarter, the Governor’s Plate (late Loch Plate)
from two miles to a mile and a half, and the
King’s Plate from three to two 'miles.
Imported Torbane, who was a disappoint-
ment in both Cups, won a 10-furlong race at Caul-
field last Saturday. He started favorite and won
in great style in good time. Evidently the aged
Britisher can be quite brilliant when he feels in
the humor and conditions are favorable and there
is nothing very special to beat. The quality of the
opposition makes a wonderful lot of difference in
the running of some of these elderly imported ani-
mals. They do little things in the grandest possible
manner, but when the job is too tough they chuck it
up - . .
“E.T.”: The racing glory that once was
Ballarat’s has departed, seemingly for good. The
Miners’ Rest stable, from which Jim Scobie turned
out winners of Cups, Derbies, Maribyrnong Plates
and Grand National Hurdles, now shelters a couple
of “district” nags. At the Newmarket Hotel
stables, where the late Bob Howie trained Suwarrow,
the Vic. Derby winner, and Stockwell, runner-up in
a Melbourne Cup, pigs are being raised nowadays.
And at the place where Tommy AVilson prepared
Melbourne Cup winners Sheet Anchor and Bravo, and
many other notable flat racers and jumpers, there
is these times a dairy farm.
* * * *
“Wart”: At the Newnham (Launceston)
Racing Club’s meeting (25/11/’l6) Grizette, owned
and bred by Thirkell Bros., won the two-year-old
race by a street, putting up a half-mile record for
Tasmania —48isec. This on a heavy course.
Grizette was ‘bred at Sandridge. She is by the
latelv-defunct Chiron . out of Marie Louise. Marie
Louise was bred in 1890, so was 24 years old when
she foaled Grizette. Her. best foal before was Pro-
gredior, her second, who won the Hobart Cup in
1902. Progredior was by Pilgrim’s Progress.
* * * *
Women at Toowoomba (Q.) seem to
know something. The turf club there offered a gold
watch to the feminine picker of a double. Out of
450 tickets sent in 55 struck it. They drew lots for
the jewellery. There were eight nags in each race.
* * * *
Barrister Windeyer, president of Ma
State’s Golf Ass’n, spoke at a gathering of sporting
bodies held at the Sports Club, Sydney, last week
for the purpose of discussing ways and means with
chief-recruiter Mackinnon. AAondeyer remarked that
he had heard liorse-racing spoken of as a national
industry. He believed it was —also that the products
were: horse manure, flies, spielers and bankrupts.
This was fairly hot stuff, but it contains the ele-
ments of truth. No one not incurably blind can
fail to see that the racing business as it is run to-
day is cumbered with a heap of putrifying ' waste
products which are a disgrace and a menace to the
community. Unless this is cleaned up now the
result when Australia becomes sober is inevitable.
The good sportsman will get hurt with the other
one.
There are more ways of making money
out of horses than backing them with Israel. At
the end of the war the man who could put a few
thousand well-bred mares into Europe might find
himself a fair winner. The loss of horse there-
abouts, in spite of the use of the motor-car and the
railway, has been enormous. Millions have gone
down,' and the saving of horse life is almost as
important now in some countries as the protection
of human life. There are many kinds of transport
for which horses alone are useful. The longer the
war goes on the greater the wastage, because with
the killing or foundering of the best horses comes
increasing use of the other sort. Germany started
off with 6,000.000. After using them in war and
for breakfast how many are left?
* * * *
Last week’s cable news stated that immi-
gration officials at Vancouver unsuccessfully searched
the Niagara for Les Darcy.” Which is just the sort
of thing Red Tape might be expected to do. Rut
this page hopes that failure to strike Darcy on a
bio- mail steamer will not lead to any such eaieless-
ness as searching for him in training camps and
transports.
• Tommy Uren, the welter champion, and
Frey Kay, who has the decoration for middle-weights,
submitted peace proposals to one another at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday. The negotiations were incon-
clusive, and Arthur Scott,.being called upon to arbi-
trate, gave the verdict to Kay. This led to loud
veils. But what Scott says goes. hhere was not
much in the scrap, anyhow. Uren did rather bettei
than Kay’s previous assailants and handed ovei
unexpected punches with both hands. Apparently
there will he no peace _ until another battle rages
and something hits a chin.
* * * *
Matt Murphy got it again on Saturday.
Jimmy Hill, the feather champion, and Matt were
having an argument at Melbourne that evening, and,
after Matt had lost his feet four, times in the fifth,
Hill ended the matter in the sixth by concentrating
the whole national strength into one supreme swing.
The collision with the jaw was emphatic. Matt
looked even less like a world-beater than he did
against Edwards.
Fritz Holland would have stood more
chance against 15 wombats tangled in a io o
barbed wire than he did against Harry Stone at
Brisbane on Saturday. He had a lot more meat, too.
Stone attacked with the most practical kind of
wallop, and ran out an easy winner. Poor old kritz .
He can still belt blazes out of his saxophone, though
—that is o.ne consolation.
Frank Iredale. secretary of N.S.W.
Cricket Association, pleads guilty to 49. His hobby
nowadays is to foster schools cricket. In premie -
ship cricket Iredale formerly played with 1 ana-
niatta anti Central
Cumberland; in re-
cent years be banged
the leather on behalf
of Gordon. He has
played with Ma
against most of the
States, and tripped
with Australian Xl.’s
in '96 and ’99; but
the excursions were
usually spoiled by a
Jaimmy which was
not amenable to sea.
His spring-heel stei
loots good enougl
for many years yet.
FRANK
IRE-DALE,
international
cricketer and
secretary to
N.S.W. Cricket
Ass.
The English Amateur Boxing Association,
at its» annual meeting 1 , reported that the champion-
ships, which have been let slide during the war, can-
not possibly be revived until it is over. The school
championships, however, have been similarly dropped,
without the same good reason, and the A.B.C. prom-
ises to revive them 'during the coming year. Athletic
Australia has no school boxing championships. Why ?
*** 1 *
“LV.D.”: Ever see a fair dinkum go
between two old-nran grey ’roos ? They generally
select ■ a fairly open spot in the timber, level arid
not too hard,” and mostly a bit of sparring goes on
before the real encounter on the right spot is
started. Once there, however, no time is wasted.
Facing each other, and rising on their hind toes,
they begin a lively catch-as-catch-can for a hold
with the fore-claws on the neck, shoulders or fore-
arm. Once a fair hold is obtained each animal
becomes possessed with one idea, and that is to
poke or rip a hole in the other fellow’s belly. The
middle toe on the hind foot is sharp and hard from
constant contact with brush and sandy ground, and
the push it gets from a hind leg which is one mass
of sinew and muscle makes it a very dangerous
weapon. I have seen a dog ripped from shoulder to
flank in one stroke, and the resultant wound exposed
heart, liver, lungs and entrails. When a very severe
body blow is struck or both marsupials run out of
wind they make it the end of a round, and loosen-
ing the neck-hold both spring back out of each
other’s reach. If the round finishes on the ground
as it sometimes does after a heavy fall, thev take
out the interval as they lie. Not having any Stadium
fixings I fancy they just lie until sufficiently rested ;
then at it again, and so on till the finish. They
fight veiny fair, and as far as 1 I know rarely take a
mean advantage of each other. The finish is usually
brought about by a severe wound or sheer exhaustion.
At Innisfail (Q.) lately Martin Dobrilla
commenced to swing clubs at 1 p.m. on a Wednesday
and continued twirling the lumps of wood till 10.40
on Saturday night. By that he established a Banana-
land record and made £lO. If he had spent the
same time cane-cutting Martin would have earned
£l2 10s., had frequent sleep and done a useful
thing.
Sydney Grammar School boy L. V
who has "been .loins great things in. 0.P.8. c“ck t
this season, kept up the strain in the final a*am t
King’s School by gathering nine wickets for 1
runs His efforts for the year are o 9 wickets to
5.16.' If ankle-weakness (which hinders running!
can be overcome, this lad may develop
tornado. . »
* * *
W. S. Dight (Western Suburbs) put up
a fine effort against Glebe in the last round of
Sydney premiership cricket by dismissing seven
103 and five for 24—12 wickets for 127 runs. It
was the best match effort of the season. in the
same match wicket-keeper F-. Gillrver (Glebe),
youngster who had been doing things in junior
cricket, started big cricket by allowing only three
byes in a tally of 190 and stumping and catching
two batsmen. Gilliver is in many quarters regarded
as the find of the season. # # •
Syd. Gregory, who smacked up 35
(second-top score) against Petersham on Saturday,
is the oldest of N. S. Wales rep. players at present
in flannels. The little man has had seven trips with
Vrstralian Xl.’s to England— the first m 90. Count-
ing in all kinds of cricket he has scored somewhere
near 20,000 runs.
* * * *
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, got from
Prince Alfreds the beating at cricket which has
lately been usual. Even Governor Galway, who
holds the scale evenly between the two colleges
was moved to suggest, when presenting the shield
to “Princes,” that “Saints” ought to win once dur-
ing his (probable) five years of office. He has now
finished three, and in all the events —cricket, foot-
ball, tennis and ‘‘sports”—since 1914 began, St.
Peters have had only one narrow win, in the
Sports this year. Rowing they are particularly good
at owing to the influence of late headmaster Girdle-
stone, an Oxford stroke (now living in Sydney) ;
but Prince Alfreds haven’t a boat on the rive*.
Outed in France the other day, Roy Flett.
one of S. Australia’s best exponents of lacrosse. He
learned the game at Port Pirie and represented the
Wheatfield in Inter-State matches since 1912. He
had an easy place in the smartest dozen in the
Commonwealth. The story "stopped at 26.
* * * *
One-time Australian cyclists are sweeping
the Yankee tracks. At two recent meetings every
event fell to riders who had migrated from this end
of the globe. Bob Spears (Dubbo) defeated Frank
Kramer (world’s champion sprinter) for the seventh
time during the season, and (with R. McNamara)
won the teams’ race (621 miles) and finished second
in the 25 miles teams’ event. Alf Grenda and A.
J. Goullett won that last lot. * *
Unless all the others were as slow as
British diplomacy in Greece, a youngster who laid
violent hands on the championships of one of the big
schools at Wellington (M.L.) the other day looks
like being something out of the box. His name is
Wilson, and during the afternoon he did this: Won
a heat and the final of 100yds. ; did ditto over
220yds. ; won the 440yds., half-mile walk and long
jump, and heaved a cricket hall 15yds. further
than ’ anyone else. Of course there is a good deal
of resiliency about a kid, hut if a medical man
took Wilson by the ear and told him something about
his innards it wouldn't do any harm. Four violent
sprints, a go over a quarter (the hardest of all
races) and three other performances all on the same
afternoon means calling tenders for a lot of trouble.
“Bedouri” : Re the moke versus man
endurance test. “Barcoo” (B. 23/11/16) is alto-
gether wrong in his distances. Bill Watson, of
Gurrawilla, old V.R.C. starter Watson’s son, would
best any horse easily. Bill certainly walked regu-
larly to the quarterly meetings of the Gregory
North Rabbit Board, held at Wonkiri, distance 65
miles (not 45, as “Barcoo” states), and made it
easily in the day between sun up and dovyn. Watson
once walked from Canterbury to Currawilla, leaving
the former at sunrise. He arrived at Currawilla
about 3 p.m., distance 50 miles, and offered to bet
anyone a tenner he could make Palparara (28 miles
further on) before sundown. He was a champion and
could beat the ordinary moke with ease. “Barcoo”
states Currawilla is 130 miles from Adavale; more
like 250. A legend exists that Watson walked into
Windorah, 120 miles, in a day ard a half to sit on
the Bench where a Chinaman was concerned. He
was “white” and hated Chinamen and Afghans. _At
present he lives a life of repose at St. Ivilda (Vic.)
and bike-riding is his speciality.
“Foolar”: “Alidon” (B. 30/11/’l6) and
others writing of bursting rifle barrels evidently mean
shotgun barrels. 1 have blown dozens of cleaning
rags that were tight enough to break a greenhide
“pull-through” out of my Winchester by inserting a
oartvidge loaded with bullet. I have had the rags
jambed from near the breech to . the muzzle, and
my quick and safe remedy was always a loaded cart-
ridge. Re “Alidon’s” penny-on-muzzle trick. He
can stack coppers as high as Haman’s scaffold on
top of my Winchester muzzle and I will guarantee
to scatter them safely with a bullet without injuring
the barrel. But keep all obstructions out of your
shotgun barrel when shooting if you are not after
a premature journey.
- * * *
The superiority of wooden auto, tracks
for record-smashing was recently demonstrated by a
Yankee flier named Aitken. Driving a high-powered
ear in the Astor Cup, Aitken whizzed over 250 miles
in 2hr. 23min. 4 3-ssec., or nearly 105 miles
an hour. Alongside this achievement the two pre-
vious world’s bests —9? and 89 miles an hour on
cement and brick-surfared tracks at Brooklands
(Eng.) and Indianapolis respectively—are mere
dawdling.
The police have a queer way of reforming
the ladies who tread the gay paths of the
wicked. In a Sydney court the other day
a newcomer to the old trade was ordered to
find £lO as security that she would be of
good behavior in future. She was able
to produce the tenner and was handing
in the cash when the Ass explained
that she would have to find some-
one else to be her surety. Promptly a fat.
overdressed female, wearing all the marks of
her vile trade, produced herself and did the
necessary, subsequently escorting the recruit
from the court and introducing herself as
she went. How that sort of thing is going
to encourage morality it is hard to say.
LIKE FATHER, UNLIKE SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
■ Although a bookmaker, I hate to think my chil-
dren should have any knowledge of gambling, and
as the father of three little ones I never allow race-
course matters to be discussed in my household. —-
Mr. O’Dea, president of the Bookmakers’ Association,
asking N.B. IV. Government to give Israel “security
of tenure.”
O Mister President O’Dea,
Mingle, I beg, thy tears with mine ;
Wicked are we, and we must pay,
But let not our poor infants pine;
I’ll keep thy secret from the light—
Let not my babies know I write.
A beautiful and blue-eyed boy,
Who nightly comes to climb my knee,
Blameless and pure, and full of joy—-
And oh ! he is so like to me !
But on his youth ’twould be a curse
If he but knew his pa wrote verse.
So, when he asks me: “What is Oo?”
Confused, I say, “A bishop, dear.”
How could I tell him that I drew
Cash for the stuff like this stuff here?
And so I say: “A bishop, sweet” ;
And scoot in quick shame down the street.
O Mister President O’Dea,
We both are in a shocking mess ;
If my child sees real bishops, say,
I-le'll know I’m not one by my dress ;
And you, by sign of hat and coat,
Suggest not deanship but the Tote.
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Some Day You’ll Get a
Thrashing'
f'
Some day you’ll be called upon to defend yourself.
Suppose, for instance, some bumptious fellow insulted you, what would
be your position ?
Would you be able to fittingly avenge such an insult, or in trying to
do so would you run the risk of getting a severe thrashing, owing to
your inability to, defend yourself—to prove yourself a man?
You never know what the future holds in store for you, so be prepared
learn the art of self-defence. Start TO-DAY —not next week, but NOW.
I TEACH BOXING BY MAIL
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific boxer.
My boxing instructions are very thorough—you’ll find
them most interesting, and be surprised at the quick
progress you will make under my personal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and are cramful
of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertisement
and post it to nie, and I will send you by return mail
my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about my methods, terms, etc.
Please send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
563 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
m m
An Acceptable Xmas
Gift —a Box of
Club Royal “Cabinets.”
They are made, from selected Havana
Leaf, and are fine-flavored and mild,
with a most delightful aroma.
I can very highly recommend them,
and they are excellent value.
In handsome cedar cabinets of 50 —
207-
Postage on 50: N.S.W., 9d.
Inter-State, 1/2.
SAMPLE PACKET OF FIVE, POST
FREE 2/6
WRITE FOR A FREE COPY OF MY
CATALOG OF CIGARS, TOBACCO, PIPES
AND ALL SMOKERS’ REQUISITES. IT
WILL HELP YOU IN SELECTING YOUR
XMAS GIFTS.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HH
«C
SHELL
HELL'-
BENZINE
•NZINE
mm
BENZINE
SHILL]
BENZINE^
Solo
It
o
u
The Machine Supreme
for Australian Roads
%
gdf
Catalogue '‘ U" with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. r,l. Bussell St., Melbourne
gf
g
To Assist Inventors.'
Patentslnvestigation Board
Established by the Government of New South Wales.
PROSPECTUS on application to the Sec-
retary, Patents Investigation Board, 16
Carrington St., Sydney. Telephone 19S9 City.
TheCHIA$TOLITE°s.. L ne ck
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY - , Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
JUST THE STYLE FOR YOU
—with comfort such as you have never
known. This is the ideal combination you
get in RIGNEY SHOES. There’s a model
to suit every taste, and a shape for every
foot.
The boot shown is a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, with latest perforations. A high-grade
made-to-order style.
Price - 30)-
Also in Black and Tan Velour Calf.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of. Our Catalog.
fgd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
357 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
WsSmS
•wV-4A:
■wz.
sr
tzm
s
mm
m
mmm
■
gjpfi i
sfg&i&g
RbT-^’tf 5 *
mm
: «
mmi
V-,
f.*V
Sa£2
.
I
\
■ -i .’;-• / <r
2‘k^
<•/:;■••• .
X.-i&S
w
.r>.■_ I*
.V-
W/i
i \
,r 'i
m
&
sagflglP
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 26 bottle
p prfV^-l
I'.
§/
r
rat
ijli
m
Horsemen!
IT WILL PAY YOU to get in touch with vis
when you next need Riding Trousers or Breeches.
Our quotations below exemplify the Values we
offer.
Riding Tr’s, 12/6
(Tailored to
Measure).
In Medium-weight
Khaki Drill (as
supplied to the
Military Forces)
guaranteed to gm
Seasons of V\:ar.
Will not soil
easily, rod Im-
prove s in the
Wash. Regulation
Riding Cut—Full
Seat —Tapered to
\nkle —• Fitting
' losely over Boot.
“ L.S.”
Judhpores, 22/6
(Tailored to
Measure).
In Medium- weight
Khaki Drill of
the same quality
as used in the
Trousers. Style as
shown, which does
away with the
necessity of Wear-
ing Leggings. Cor-
rectly and Com-
fortably -Cut and
Tailor -made
throughout. Un-
equalled for Ser-
vice.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS
—they’ll reach you by return, Post
Paid, together with a copy of our
Mail-Order Catalog', Self-Measurement
forms, Tapes, etc.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
PTY. LTD.,
“ Mail-Order Tailors & Outfitters,”
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


RjSHSi
XMAS
GIFTS!
A little thought will prove
to you that the “Onoto”
is the ideal Xmas Gift for
father and son, mother
and daughter, friends
near and far.
A Fountain Penis so use-
ful, and when it is an
“Onoto” so lasting and
reliable that it cannot fail
to awaken appreciation.
It runs smoothly and even-
ly over the paper— never
scratches or splutters—
never gives trouble
never leaks.
Moreover you can fill the
“Onoto” without mess—
no filler is required.
Onoto
Self-Tilling - •
Safety fountain
Pen
Price 14/6
and in a variety of more
elaborate styles tor pre-
sentation purposes. At
all Stationers, Jewellers
and Stores.
Manufactured by THOS. DE
LA RUh & CO.. Ltd., 206 Buu-
hill Row, London, E.C.
Managing Agents Norman
Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
If you suffer from
GOITRE
you should investigate the merits of
Doig’s Goitre Treatment. Over 3000
eases, many of them obstinate and of
long standing have been successfully
treated by this remedy It seldom fails
to make a perceptible difference in the
swelling within two or three weeks—and
to completely rest ore the neck i o its nor-
mal proportions in a few months.
Full information Post Free on application to
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.
Manufacturing . hemi-ts
197 P Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Bankers : Bank if N.Z.
10
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees _ are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringfdon St.,
LONDON, Eng;.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Ceary Street, fust off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives.
man
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
trade mark
Explaining “Feminine Charm”
By MILLICENT BROWN.
Illustrated by PENRHYN STANLAWS.
I NOTICED a curious thing recently in
a railway train. A nicely-dressed
woman entered, and took a seat beside
me. I saw that everyone was looking at
her —staring, in fact. But
not offensively, you under-
stand. I caught my-
self doing the same
thing. It was
impossible to
help it. Cer-
tainly it was
not h e-i"
said; “I remove my skin.” “You what?" I
exclaimed, horrified. Again she laughed, and
replied, “Sounds shocking, doesn’t itV But
I will explain. Instead of using face creams
I use only pure mercolized
wax, procurable at any
chemist’s. The wax
has a gentle absorbent
action which
takes up and
removes the
soiled and
weather-
ID «»
3
m
m
r
/
AtU)»
sa
n
5.
hi
§
;
&i?
O-C*
& y
I?**
p>
so
y f r
a
J'f
N
-c?
Zjy
err-
r />
y>
\
-<
/><£•'
tyy.
SVI.
t>y s
,n#
c . ■ ';
r \i.'} .-‘V
> ; _?>£TV vO 1 11 l
StanIAV^S
V,
beauty of
feature that
held the eyes
of all. nor
was it her
costume. But
there was
something about her
face and expression—
I risked it, and spoke.
“Would you mind telling
me,” I said, “liow you keep
your complexion so dazzlingly pure? You
won’t think me impertinent, but you seem
to be over thirty, aren’t you? And yet you
haven’t a line in your face, and your cheeks
are quite peach-like. Do tell me how
you do it.” She laughed, quite good-
naturedly. “Oh, that’s very easy,” she
beaten outer
film - skin,
without pain,
irritation or
d i s comfort,
thus reveal-
ing the real
complexion fresh and
clea r underneath.
Every woman has a beauti-
ful complexion underneath,
you know. Then, to keep
my face firm and free from wrinkles, I
merely indulge in a sparkling face bath two
or three times a week, which I prepare by
dissolving a little stymol (obtained at the
chemist’s) in a bowl of warm water. This
also keeps away those unpleasant little
blackheads, and prevents ‘shine.’ ” [3
&
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
evidence. So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arphed and delightful,
this is the shoe of 'shoes to give a telling finish
to one's new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores.
Bostock No.
Q 9583
830
fgd
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostbck.”
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the .name “Bostock” on the soles.
fg
dfg
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
HELLO!
DIRTY BOOTS!-
Bostock’s Shoe Polishes will make you clean and bright.
A little Bostock’s, a little rub —result, a brilliant and lasting- shine. Preserves
as well as polishes! Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, ancl White.
In tins, 6d. Creams: In 2oz. Tubes, 6d.; 4oz. Bottles, 1/-
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. —SYDNEY.
df
Do You Suffer from CATARRH ?
RAMEY’S MEOICATOR
will cure Catarrh, Hay Fever, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Price, with Complete Treatment, only
10/-. Post Free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
Box 466,49 b Elizabeth St., Melbourne. L 2
COPPER AND ALUMINUM
kitchen utensils take on a
cheerful newness when
pWished with
gdf
gd
KING OF
METAL POLISH
The won ler working, -
safest and quickest of all polishes.
Two size cans at ail Grocery. Hardware
_ and Drug Stores. Look for the Photo on con.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Solomon Lazarus
Levi —now Sir Sydney Lee—has been show-
ing Billjim the historic spots of London at
the request of the Anzac Committee of the
Y.M.C.A. While piloting them around he
was frequently asked to tell them the best
and safest places in which to spend the even-
ing. Reasonable, he says, but a “puzzling
problem.” Solomon or Sydney is the lead-
ing living authority on Shakspeare and the
writer of the standard life of the Bard ; but
the only place where Shak. can be seen is at
the “Old Vic.,” in a slum region on the
south side of the Thames. Nearly all the
London theatres are monopolised by revues,
which the Australians told him they found
“tedious, vapid and barely intelligible
clownage.” They expected the playhouses of
the Empire’s metropolis to offer them sound
and exhilarating music and drama, and he
reckons that an “honorable obligation rests
on Londoners to do it.” Which is large and
vague and magnificent; but no banker would
finance a season on that security.
In the European Shock Exchange Kaiser
William holds the unique position of being
simultaneously beset by the Bulls and the
Bears.
Defence Minister Pearce reckons the
Allies are in a worse position to-day than
they were a year ago. But let us cheer up.
There are gleams like this in the general
gloom :—•
At the second annual meeting of the Pomeranian
and Toy Dogs Club the report stated that the past
year had been most successful.
South Aus. is getting into trouble already
over its proposed list of native names to be
substituted for everything German or
German-sounding. One township gets the
musical title of Wonnaminta. Somebody
pointed out that this means simply emu-
dung, and then the band played. In any
case, tlie name should have been ruled out,
because it is attached to a N. S. Wales
locality already.
“Tiger” : “Ouyen’s” statement that Mallee
pine smoke has been of great benefit to a
sufferer from tuberculosis (B. 2/11/T6) is
open to grave question. The case he men-
tions may have derived benefit from this
alleged remedy, but it is extremely doubtful.
Smoke of any kind is apt to be more harmful
than beneficial in pulmonary troubles, on
account of the irritation it sets up. It is
more than probable that the improvement in
“Ouyen’s” friend’s condition was due either
to the change to the air of the Mallee or to
the exercise—possibly a little of eafck.
Canada, tI.S.A. and parts of Europe have
advertised their pine forests for a number
of years, not for any virtue in pine-smoke
but simply for the air of the pine country.
Results in these forests have, however, been
not as good as those offered by sanatoria in
other districts. It would be a pity if suf-
ferers rushed to the Mallee expecting great
benefit from pine-wood smoke. They would
be risking cruel disappointment.
“Wealsman’s” story of a queer case:—
Recent Bulletin mention of the “only son” phase
of the military exemption question recalls a quaint
variant of the conventional. A youth, called up for
examination at 10 o’clock one morning, learnt from
his tearful parents at 8.30 the astonishing news that
he was not their son at all, and that, as the fact
that he was an adopted child might possibly be
known to the magistrate or to some of the court
offkials, his intended idea of “only son” would,
perhaps, miss fire. When he recovered from the
shock of the revelation, the youth, who had long
wanted to enlist but had refrained at his mother’s
request, urged the newly-discovered relationship as a
reason for the withdrawal of her objection ; but the
old lady wept a. refusal and made him promise
anew that he would try for exemption. In court
he put in the usual plea ; but the magistrate called
him up to the Bench and quietly intimated that he
had been informed that the applicant was merely
an adopted son, and therefore could not legally
claim to be an only son. Exemption regretfully
refused.
The lad was leaving the court, looking very sorry
for the woman who had been the only mother he had
known during his 21 years, when he paused, hesi-
tated a moment, then turned and walked straight
back to-the Bench, with the query: “If 1 am the
only son of my parents—my real parents—what
about exemption?” The magistrate gasped, frowned
and fidgeted with his spectacles, finally stammer-
ing: “Well, well, I—ah—well, I suppose so. Yes,
certainly, if it can be proved. Are von the only
son of your real parents?” The youth said he
hadn’t the faintest notion, but thought it possible
his foster-parents had. “Go home and find out,”
said the P.M. An hour later, just as the court was
rising, the youth came in with his foster-father. The
latter collogued awhile with the magistrate and
argued awhile with the military representative, then
went into the witness-box and swore to “the truth
of the statement he had just made to the Bench.”
Previous judgment reversed. Exemption from mili-
tary service granted “on the grounds,” said the
magistrate, as he wrote it down, “that he is the
only son of his parents.” The applicant left the
court without a stain on his character or a smile
on his usually cheerful face. He looked five years
older, and there was an unwonted glitter in his
eye. as the military representative brushed past,
annoyance in every stride and contempt in his stare.
“If that chap was a German, I’d go to the war to-
morrow,” remarked the youth bitterly. It seems
that the military rep. had asked the old man
whether the yquth’s real' parents now had any other
sons, and had been answered in the affirmative. He
had then triumphantly claimed that the applicant
was not entitled to exemption. But the old man
satisfied the magistrate that, while the lad’s father
and mother now' possessed other children, some of
them sons, the applicant was the only child of the
union of that father and that mother. The parents
had subsequently married other parties, it was at
this stage of the proceedings that the youthful appli-
cant for exemption, who was standing by, waiting
for the verdict, overheard the nonplussed officer drop
a remark. It was not a kind remark, and was not
intended for publication, but while Dad w'as climb-
ing into the witness-box the military man became
aware by a look that Sonny had heard and under-
stood. This knowdedge disconcerted him, and he
missed raising the point that as the applicant was
not bearing his real father’s name, the traditional
reason for exempting only sons —the perpetuation of
the family name—did not apply in this particular
case. And the magistrate did not think of it.
After all, it is perhaps as well for the reputation
of various persons and institutions that the tribunals
have ceased from troubling and the family tangles
are at rest.


*
w
m
u
n
fa.
I
i
m
1
•H
ss
sss
\'sW''SSs
sastfSKS*''
sw^_.
Still Time to Clioose
a “Beale” ICalopkoiae.
Though the time is short —and perhaps your mind
still at sea —there is still time to choose the
incomparable gift—a “Beale” Kalophone. Nothing
has quite the same appeal as music—and this the
Kalophone will give you —perfect re-creations of the
world’s finest artists. Call to-day and hear the
latest models. Prices from £3131-
SUBURBAN SHOWROOMS
232 KING STREET,
NEWTOWN
ec£le
& c? ltp
333 George St Sydney
FACTORIES
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST
ANNANDALE.
Also at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. AHCTORIA: Maples, in all Melbourne
Suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans Limited, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Kent Street, Maryborough; Flinders Street, Townsville;
Rockhampton; Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns.


m
&
■/I 1 *
KCEPIfIG
FIT ■
Rings,
Dumbells
and
Indian Clubs
will develop the
muscles and add to
the chest measurement
of the man who lives a
sedentary life and who
never takes exercise or
exerts himself physically,
but
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
develops brain power, energy,
strengthens the nerves and
aids the digestion.
It also banishes Headache,
Backache, Malaria, Rheuma-
tism and Neuralgia, and
compensates the system for
the waste occasioned by too
violent exercise or prolonged
physical exertion.
STRONG IN DIGESTIVES
RICH IN PHOSPHATES
ALL CHEMISTS & STORES
■J J- per Bottle. Four times the quantity 2/0
Chemists,
337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
F1155.P
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
fg
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phfll\o many times as efficient
tcdi rnone and powerful as tlle old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and varticnlars of ovr Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN.ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHRISTIE^
3PECIAUSE
TWO
L/NES
$
0
.H 1
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
L
n
a:
1 1
- S'" 1 * '
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
K WMTER 3 T NEWCASTLE
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE..
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking: Botanical Gardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
dfg
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines many of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles—the
dippv pigskin seat, the rough opt-flaps for grip, om
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points.
Hie long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leatherss,
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLL. ,
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead ot
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to anv port or railway station ip N.S.W. or any direct poi i
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one .inch cheeks and rein, 11/C, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER § STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers &. Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
df
gf
g
fg
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
T)0 YOU KNOW the importance of rich blood? It will be evident
"'"when you consider that the entire system derives its nourishment
from the blood.
When the blood is poor in quality and unable properly to perform
its function, the system becomes starved.
The sufferer complains of exhaustion, lassitude, loss of appetite
and depression —he is debilitated.
He will continue to suffer until his blood is enriched and strengthened.
This is when Iron ‘J e U°ids,’ The Reliable Tonic, are needed to
enrich and strengthen the blood.
As the blood becomes restored to its normal condition, strength and
energy return —one feels fit and well.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —“Impoverished blood can be
“made rich and good by means of Iron ‘Jelloids’ the
“most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
Reliable Tonic for Men . . . IRON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 2A.
For Ancemia in Women . . . IRON 'JELLOIDS' No. 2.
For Growing Children . . . IRON JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/*.
(Pronounced Jell -Lloyds)
fg
X
0
z
5:4
6*5
5?:
IV s
irjfc
Collars ~6yanec/(
StIIPTS ~ fiaffa fengtfi
PmMAS„%//
df
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Iv.A.H.: Correct verse, but commonplace.
. ...Buyar: Is it a telegram ?... . JAf.A.: Too arti-
ficial. No; so far as we have investigated them,
correspondence schools which profess to teach short-
story writing- are shameless frauds. . . .Sentimental
Medico: Not enough in it. . . .R.A.W.: Dreary com-
monplace. ... G.R. II.: What’s wrong with your ear?
You can’t rhyme “jaw” and “snore.” J.L.H:
l'air verse of a sort, but too thin in idea and too
weak in treatment.... Bard of Baree: A'slab from
the peroration:—
Britain must be careful
llow she fires a gun,
E’en in her own Dominions
She’s sure to hit a Hun.
“We’ll trade no more with Germans”
Imperialists declare;
Their intellect is like unto
That of the March Hare.
For live we not amongst them
In amity to-day ?
No imperialistic trader
Turns a Hun away.
. ...J.H.: “Scattered Squadron”- moves heavily....
L.S.: It’s commonplace blood if it can’t yell better
than that. .. .E.A.C.: Ancient gag and p00r....
K.F.L.: Not up. .. . A.M.S.: Omar rhymes are too
easy E.M.C.: Nothing in it C.L. : Yes, it
bumps badly—particularly the second line K.J.M.:
Misses the target.... W.T.: Seems plain * insanity.
I.M.M.: Too slight. .. .Dick P.: Pretty lumpy
and doesn’t ’say much G.L.F.: The “Fitznoodle”
is too difficult to believe W.R.W.: Not much
yarn and a bit too preachy. . . .M.B. : Prose good, but
not good enough. Verse dreadful.... Grayem: Hard
to get laughter out of that LAV.: Well, tell us
how many hearts really were broken :
.....L.S.D.: Nicely done, but only a trifle W.L.:
Mining lament as heavy as stale beer....Jn. L.:
The “backwoods” of Australia is anew notion....
H.G.H.: Well enough done, but idea rather forced.
. ...A.R.D.: Can’t imagine any self-respecting
journal printing them.... Zou Youth: Looks as if
you had done it “on the spur of the moment.” In
fact, you might have done it sitting swinging on a
barbed wire. .. .Corporal: Too .rugged; but they are
on the right track.... 5.M.0.: Dreary catalogue of
the things a nigger’s skeleton might have endured.
....Lana: Better, but not up.... A.R.L.: Yarns a
bit anaemic. . . .Billri: Not enough point. .. -C.G.:
We’ve been called some names, but the “Lion’s Aus-
tral offspring” makes us foam in protest:.. .S.L.:
“The Spy” is a cheerful person:—
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.J.L.: Somebody got in ahead of you with that
idea. About 5000 years ahead. .. . A.B.C.: Poor gag,
and it’s only an autograph-book drawing. .. .L.D.M.:
Immature work.... Jean H.: Practise for a few years.
. ...O.L.: The gags are better than the drawings.
The gags are no good E.T.: Your art is too
young. .. .D.J.K.: Did you borrow that London
Punch gag, or did some friend push it off on you?
....Palo S.: Many worse. Cultivate the bold line.
. ...W.S.: Thin both ways... .Mac: Still crude....
F.C.H.: Too rough to pass judgment on. Anyone
who is interested should learn.
Anew form of theft is becoming common
in ’Roy and ’Wood, Melbourne’s two indus-
trial suburbs where the density of infants
gladdens the heart of Statist Knibbs. Prams
are being stolen, contents and all. The con-
tents are found next day at one of the local
creches, minus anything valuable they may
have had on —usually the gold “Darling’-’ or
“Baby” brooch which is the latest cry in
infantile bijouterie. The thief; of course,
has pawned or sold the pram, and a girl
confederate has dumped the kiddie at the
crSehe. One father, who lived in Easy-
street, Collingwood, but was not therefore
necessarily a millionaire, recently spent an
anxious night of search before lie found his
offspring, which had been collared, with its
pram, outside a shop wherein mother was
matching ribbons. The local police were
lately looking for six go-carts or prams,
each valued at £5 55.. and six parents Had
an axe stropped all ready for the kidnapper.
She went about in taxis
With men of every kind,
The little child was dying
All through a broken heart,
The mother's heart had hardened,
Almost turned to stone,
The baby child was sleeping
In her grave upon the hill.
Surrounded by pure white lilies
Where ne’er a thorn could grow,
Another heart is broken,
But now it is too late,
She sleeps among the lilies,
With her little baby child.
All dressed like a peasant old and thin
Our Billjim helps the war to win.
In the dark of night he creeps into the Hunnish
lines, _ i
Where Huns whisper dreadful words and drink more
dreadful wines.
He finds all their pretty maps,
And thinks out some lovely traps
To catch Hansfritz
And blow him to bits !
. ...A.H.: “The Return’’ is lamentable verse....
H.McI.: Pathos in it, but you have no 5ki11....
Myah: Too tame. . . .Regilda: Poor stuff... .E.L.S.:
The “Answer” flops and waddles badly.... George
Ginger: Rather crude verse. The slight idea wanted
skill to put life in it,. . . . R.A.: “Love and the Fool”
much improved. But it can’t get in here....
W.P.S.: Much belter; but can’t you see the weighted
artificiality of those • lines ?.. . .G.H.R.: Not up. .. .
A.D.A.: Verse too crude. .. .L.F.W.: The blank verse
is not hilarious and when you start to rhyme
“things” with “fringe” the depression deepens....
E.D.: It sounds as furious as a tom-cat mentioning
its opinion of a terrier.... Son of Artemus: Only
fair and not interesting. ... L.T.: Verse too slipshod
and ideas a bit thin. . . .J.S'.D. : Thanks, but can't
republish... .J.S.: Thanks ; but.it doesn’t get within
sight of verses lately printed on the same subject.
....Remington: Obliged; but we’ve already had the
Lopez story Australians (S’Africa) : Depends on
what you mean by freedom. If you’d sooner have
it under an alien flag- you’ve a chance.... I. V.D.:
What disease is it that impels you to type vcur lines
so close together that a bee couldn’t get its sting
in between them ?. .. . D.R.: Glad to hear it was a
success. .. .Nick B. : Thanks Frank N.: Try it
again, smoothing out the folds. Obscurity doesn't
help verse any more than it helps prose. In topical
verse it is the cardinal sin.


*
£
o
to
m
■
H
S
■
'■/■ LWAV;
station
bcLTIQ. Q
%
X
'J^A
gd
fg
In bygone times crowns have been
lost through their one-time wearers
not “getting there first.”'
Throughout the world of commerce
to-day many, many thousands of
pounds fail to materialise through
the unkept appointment to discuss
some financial deal.
And he who has his car equipped
with Goodyears loses the least time
on the road through any of the
many accidents to tyres which befall
the man who buys inferior tyres
because they are a trifle cheaper.
Why not take the only sure and
certain way to tyre satisfaction by
Railways in the main
do maintain the best
average of arrivals on
time, notwithstanding
the remarks of many
people to the contrary.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE & RUBBER
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Head Office—23l Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies in all Principal Cities.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
equipping your motor
wheels with Goodyears
—the non-stop tyres
which are giving uni-
versal satisfaction
everywhere ?
Goodyear Tyres , Tides; Belting , Hose , Packing ,
obtainable throughout Australia and N.Z.
are now


Shipping:.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15.000 Regd. Tons.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw.. 13,000
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw.. 12.130
OSTERLEY .. 12.129
OTRANTO . . „ „ .. 12,124
OTWAY .. -,, „ . . 12.077
ORSOVA . . „ „ . . 12,036
ORONTES .. „ „ 9,023
OMR AH .. „ „ .. 8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin*s-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
♦ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Altna Wharf.)
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 23.
BURWAH (cargo only).
Leaves Melbourne, Dec. 27.
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 30.
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 3.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 6.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 30.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Director.?: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY. *
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head (Mice: Ei-isbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Hrauches throughout OUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Jlustraiian Rank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ..
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916)
RESERVE FUND ..
.. £2,000,000
.. £1,198,679
.. £1,197,393
£85,000
HEAD OFFICE : George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.; George F.
Todman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New_South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the "Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking |]o.
of Sydney, Limited.
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up . . .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000- 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Eire bin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest —tor
fixed periods, and
transact! all other u*ual Banking busineea.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasi&n Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
the largest, newest, fastest and best-equipped steamers trading between
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
the "ALL-BED"
BAILWAY, Across
ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction $he CANADIAN PACIFIC
t?, ua VADTIV TROTKTES. PRAIRIE. G REA A 1-iA
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe. _
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 4th January, 1917. *MOANA, 1st February, 1917.
Connecting steamers leave Sydney—28th December, 25th January, 1917.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.jM.S. Niagara and R. 31.5. Makura.
A Tour-of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
dfg
fd
gd
f
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHiLP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,705,320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
£10,135.640
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.iYI.U., At.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. 11. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, E.C,
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT, Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular N'otes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
•T. nnSSETJ. FRENCH. General Manager.
CoinmomveaftyilAnk ot Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for e a n n
General Banking Business
p^kai
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom ajnd abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances maide against approved securities.
Savingfs Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
3%
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER, Governor
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Bczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J Pepper & Co. | Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly remo’
the effects of Sunacorch.
Forlicks
-M^LK
ns
I
0* MIL*
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). Keeps
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-
where. Only water
A
seps S
lever 1
I
is needed.
In hot climates it isj
invaluable.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIA* 1
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Jan. 12 and Feb. 9.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, Dec. 30.
MORI ALTA, Jan. 6.
RUPARA, Jan. 13.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, \\hicli can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Oilice.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” "Westralia,”
"Ulimaroa,” . "Wimmera,”
“Riverina, M "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
. Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
DEC. 28, JAN. 17, FEB. 7, FEB. 28.
\ ppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The. Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
I WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillunibah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
-reamer. £6 Bs. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T.S.S. “ ICANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
...10,000 tons
... 7000 tons
... 7000 tons
... 6500 tons
... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Always Use O-Cedar Polish
the O-Cedar Way
P'
&
it
3
•*»#
N,
;«r *
W
\w;
r»v
s**i
m
•lm
»*
£
o€>
.funlikifriW
:jc
:cv;
•«<*/
• M/.
:Vi-
sW'fJ
• <■ •«.
'•
•••“
c.
•••
• ffi
THERE is no disappoint-
ment when you use
O-Cedar Polish as directed.
After all, it is the sim-
plest and easiest way.
Just remember this:
Use' O-Cedar Polish with
water. Simply dampen
a cloth with water, wring
it almost dry and add as
much O-Cedar Polish as
the cloth contains water.
Go over the article to be
polished, watch how the
dirt, dust and scum disappear,
notice how the beauty of the grain
appears, see how ‘lively’, bright
and fresh the varnish looks. Then
a few rubs with a dry cloth pro-
duces the desired lustre.
Apply O-Cedar Polish to your
dusting cloth (as you use it daily)
to retain the lustre.
As you see the results O-Cedar Polish
brings about you will realize that O-Cedar
is more than a polish, because it Cleans
as it Polishes.
A trial bottle of
m
m
V
UMm.
lit 13
'J.U- 1
o^ ar
V*PMlsh
[Registered in principal countries]
will open your eyes to the wonders that O-Cedar Polish will perform.
It is quite enough to transform all the furniture in the average house
to a sparkling, clean brilliancy.
Then you will want more. The large size
bottle contains three times as much as
the small size bottle, yet costs barely more
than twice as much.
Buy the larger sizes of O-Cedar Polish.
It is the economical way. You not only
save money, but also time and work as well
Obtainable at All Leading Dealers
Catalogues and Dealer Samples
and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO. Factory: Chicasro, U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: ‘Ocedar 9
The NEW
EDISON
for Christmas
mvaWiTiTififl
ffi
It is not too late
yet to present your
family with The NEW
EDISON —“The finest
musical instrument in
the world”—as a
Christmas present.
The NEW EDISON
aecomplis hes Mr.
Edison’s dream to
actually Re-create all
forms of music, as
distinguished from the
mechanical and only
approximate reproduc-
tion peculiar, to ordi-
nary talking-machines.
Hear The NEW
EDISON play, or
write NOW for com-
plete details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Up
m
m
m
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
z
a*
?v
I
Waterman's (ideal) Fountain Pen
The Pen of the Allies, the writing implement
adopted by well-informed people in every
civilized land. The Pen that is serving in
every Army of the Allies, doing its bit penfully
’ and well. The World’s Best Fountain Pen
—Waterman’s Ideal.
Three types —Regular, Safety, and Lever Pocket
Self-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ojepeit Corner,
LONDON
ENGLAND
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney,
SAFEGUARD You* health
otJ.Collis Brownes
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOtTT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lfS, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
dfg
EVERY
MAN
who considers quality and appear-
ance in selecting his footwear, will
find his requirements fully satis-
fied in
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 30/-
Light Soles, 27/6
In half-sizes and quarter : fittings.
Postage extra. •
WRITE If OR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
I ttir GmrjnfetX
ks^Q
7¥
a
I The discomforts of f
j travel, dust, noise and \
hurry, lose their terrors,
if you carry a bottle of
Yardley’s Eau-de-Cologne.
A few drops gently fanned
on the temples
and behind the
ears produce a
delicious sense
of comfort and
refreshment.
Done in
i London
B New Bono ST,
London. .
ii i
r °lO.!
... '"'f
\
M
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
iiiui:-
Used since 15»6. CURES Write tor Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
*
"ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AIIABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


fg
The Trusty Triumph is
f a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
Agents:
BznnettSßarkdl
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
df
nit
H*
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 16-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
It. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
wm
%\)t Remington arms
©tttoti jttetaUtc Cartridge Co., me.
of Ji5et» gorfe ana LonOott
eptena to tl)c teasers of tip's! paper
Ctye Reason’s) (Breettngss ant)
“Besit for tfje
jljetti pear
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
HORRQCKSES]
gdf
IMG CIOTHS
Used the
World Over
I
ma
MOTOR
...CARS
IN
BANANA LAND
There is no cohesion in political parties
these times. The Queensland Independent
Party, officered and manned by genial Billy
Murphy, doubled its numbers the other day
when .John Adamson joined it. But within
a week the party split over the Chillagoe
business, the deputy-leader voting one way
and the leader the other. It is rumored
that a heresy-hunt is now being vigorously
organised.
John Iluxham’s Police Offences Bill*is a
fearsome-looking thing. It aims at prevent-
ing all betting except on a racecourse, and
• declares even settling in clubs to be illegal.
Card-playing whether for money or matches
is pronounced out of bounds in any public
place, including trains and clubs. The sin
of limiting one’s family is to be visited by
dire penalties; and any idiot may declare
one’s house to be disreputable, the onus of
proof that it isn’t being then on the person
charged. Of course most of the bill will go
out. Cynics say that is w r hy it was brought
in.
“Boro-Belle”: A lady weiglibridge-clerk
has been appointed at the Pleystowe sugar
mill, Maekay. The fair juggler of weights,
while enjoying the distinction of being the
only female cane-weigher in Bananaland, is
not the first to hold such a position, as 12
years ago the mill-owner’s daughter at
Palmyra (now closed) acted in the same
capacity. On one occasion a waggon-load of
cane arrived on the weighbridge while the
clerk was playing a mandolin, and the excise
officer was so charmed with the music that
he would not disturb her. So the cane
waited.
“Gourami”: The late Daniel O’Connor,
of Oxley (near Brisbane), was a born natu-
ral observer of the type of Fabre and
Luther Burbank, but without the latter’s
advertising abilities. lie developed his
hobbies of horticulture and fish culture along
lines of real public usefulness. In his gar-
den at Oxley he grew ami improved all
manner of tropical and subtropical fruits
and vegetables. His scorn fell on the horti-
culturist who is satisfied with the ordinary
gardening successes, and he would maintain
stoutly that two acres of good soil, properly
handled, would support a family. His own
results went to bear out hi ■ contention. The
domestic cultivation of edible fish was per-
haps his favorite hobby, and he spent much
time and money in attempts to acclimatise
useful species. The gourami, the domesti-
cated edible fish of Java, attracted his atten-
tion particularly, and he was never tired
of maintaining that a pond of gourami
should, and one day would, be as ordinary
a feature of the suburban backyard as a
fowlhouse is at present, lie went to Java
and brought back the fish, but attempts to
stock waters in the neighborhood of Bris-
bane failed. For this he blamed eels. He
also collected and took to London and Paris
the first- live specimens of the lungfish
(Ceratodu's forsteri), and refused -a liberal
cheque for his trouble.
“S.G. J.” : The Brotherhood of Man idea
doesn’t get any bumps in our Central
Bananaland town. The local lawn-tennis
club had a meeting the other night. There
were 16 members present, most of them
white Australia; but China was voted to the
chair. You savee?
The last few years of Jack Hamilton’s life
showed up the old ex-athlete, ex-politician,
ex-many things, in a characteristic light. He
had offered his services to the Defence Depart-
ment, and was employed-at Enoggera giving
instruction in the art of handling rifles and
revolvers. Although his sight was naturally
dimmed with years he made astonishingly
good shooting at times, and quite surprised
the folk who looked upon him as a hopeless
back-number. Hamilton’s political career
was exceptionally long, and he was reputed
at one time to be the smartest Parliamentary
whip Bananaland ever knew. By his death
the Johnsonian Club loses one of its
founders.
“450 Cal.”: To the late Jack Hamilton,
sitting on the balcony of a Maryborough
hotel, there came the Major Knockpin of
Steele Rudd’s story, with a drawing of a
new kind of patent rifle target for discussion
and expert advice. Hamilton looked gravely
at his visitor, and announced in his mild,
high-pitched drawl: “Bill, I’ve myself dis-
covered a perfectly reliable automatic self-
registering target.” “Good Lord !” said the
Major; “you’ve made your fortune then?”
“Afraid not,” drawled Hamilton. “You see,
Bill, it isn’t quite practicable for range-
THE LEVITY OF YOUTH.
YOUNG HAMEAT (with forced gaiety): “Ha! the dinner-hell! Let us eat, drink and be
merry, for to-morrow our board is due."
OLD BARNSTORMER ( agitated ): “Hush, reckless boy! Jest not with sacred things!”
firing, and it wants a lot of attention. But,”
and the drawl grew longer, “would you like
to see it?” “My colonial, I would,” said
Bill. A stout citizen sauntered by on the
opposite side of the street, and with that
lightning quickness which characterised his
shooting, Hamilton whipped an air pistol
from under the newspaper on his knee, fired
and slipped the pistol back again. The
citizen sprang about two feet into the air,
clapped his hand to the part struck, and
glared furiously round ,for the boy with the
shanghai. The only living beings in sight
were two respectable old men reading
on the verandah. “You see, Bill.” came a
soft drawl in the Major’s ear, “I told you
it wants attention. But, it’s quite automatic
and self-recording, isn't it, Bill?”
“Webley”: Jack Hamilton was the hero'"
of a hundred stories of the North. His
remarkable head and face, which might
have served Watts for a- model ot a new
rendering of a statue of Force, topped a
bodv which for strength and endurance had
few equals in its day. Born in Victoria
oven-70 years ago, lie came to Queensland
in the early digging days, after a chequered
youth, and saw the roaring time of Gympie
and the Palmer. Hamilton made an early
name for himself amongst the rough and
varied collection of humanity on the he ds
for two excellent reasons. One was that
lie was a really good doctor, although lie
had not completed a medical course, and
the other was that lie was about, the tough-
est proposition in Queensland with the
gloves, or without. If anything further were
needed by the inquirer, he was a crack re-
volver shot. His record with a Webley
match pistol topped the world’s _ shooting
lists for years, and the revolver with which
he made it is in the possession of an old
Cooktown resident. W r hen Hamilton was
over 60 years of age he fenced a public bout
with a sergeant of the Defence Force, who
fancied himself a good hand with tlm ioils.
Hamilton fenced with his eyes blindfolded,
and hit his adversary four times to one. The
trick is simple enough, as every fencer
knows, provided the blindfolded man has
extreme speed, an iron wrist, and a suffi-
ciently delicate sense of touch ; but few men
retain these qualities at 60-odd. He swam
the Brisbane River in the ’93 flood, for a
bet, amongst a whirl of grinding timber
which made the feat look like suicide. There
is a story that he fought Larry Foley in
the latter’s best days, for the sheer fun of
the thing, and that he did not get too much
of a beating either. In his day Jack
Hamilton was probably the best-known man
in the North, and there are few bush towns
where he will not be remembered whenever
fighting or revolver shooting comes up for
discussion.
When Bugles Called.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When bugles called they left their land
And turned them tow’rd a distant strand.
Their hearts were set in noble wise,
Their souls were shining in their eyes
What time they caught that message grand.
Oh ! well they heard the clear command
“Come dne—Come all —a patriot band,
This way the path of duty lies,!”
When bugles called.
Not kindest kiss nor beck’ning bland.
Nor fondest touch of gentle hand,
Nor softest tears nor tend’rest sighs
Could turn them from the high emprise
That hid them on where guns are manned
I* When bugles called.
QUEEN £ AND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, December 16, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindah, —
This is for your private ear. The .other
day his Ex. was late for an engagement, anu
he' looked as though he was sure nobocD
would ever forgive him. The reason o
the delay was that his “tank” while careex-
ing along knocked over a horse and can.
Did vice-royalty flee lest his name shouiu
be taken by the Law? No, Thargomindah.
His Ex. hopped out of his chariot and depo
sited himself upon the horizontal horse s
head while the animal’s chains and appui-
tenances were torn otf by the anguished
keeper. Then our Popular and Genial pro-
ceeded on his way with dusty hat and a rent
—but, no matter.
To-day I saw him again—believe me,
now quite tranquil. He was taking the
salute from 2000 soldiers who were illumi-
nating Repatriation Day.
By the way, the boys in camp are in.
for a good time at Christmas if the Girls
Club receives the support it deserves. lhe
scheme is to provide a memorable blow-out
on the 25th. Don’t be backward in putting
your packet in if you’re handy.
Alfred Wall, for 28 years headmaster of
the Milton- State School, and for 50 years
in the service of the Education Department,
has retired. On Wednesday his staff and
pupils said good-bye to him—only officially,
of course; —and loaded him with remem-
brances.
All Hallows’ .Convent School gave its
annual display of needlework on Monday
afternoon, and on Wednesday evening Lady
Goold-Adams handed down the prizes. Then
'she assisted the Governor to enjoy the break-
up concert. Nellie Dowd’s singing and Enid
Parker’s violin playing were the features
of the programme. Arthur Austin . (“Sir-
dar”) hung out a seraphic smile while his
little daughter declaimed some Shakesbacon.
who, as you know, my dear, was a friend
of Oscar Asche.
Douglas Eraser, second son of ex-Senator
Simon, is paying his dad a flying visit in
Melbourne this w y eek to say au re'voir, as he
sails by the Niagara for England via
Canada. On arrival he will stand in to do
his bit along with the regiment into which
little brother Neville went straight from
Oxford in 1914. Douglas has made his
home in Queensland, where he has a big
share in the John Collins and Son station,
Mundoolun. He married the youngest
daughter of the late R. M. Collins —his
cousin, in fact —and she and the son and
heir will go as far as England to see him
“first put this uniform on.”
Owing to the efforts of bird-lovers like
“Beachcomber” Banfield, E. S. Emerson, M.
Forrest, Peter Airey and others who have
been writing about the State’s wonderful
bird-life in the school papers, the Northern
youngster has become a very enthusiastic
Gould Leagueite. Half the kiddies of
Bananaland have sworn off bird-nesting and
catapults as a result of the campaign.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Maryborough Grammar School threw up
its hat last week when G. A. Dunbar was
awarded a Rhodes Scholarship for 1916. He
is the second winner from that school,
11. Harvey being the first, eight years ago.
Dunbar, a big, manly chap, has a fine list
of successes. He left the Queensland Uni-
versity last year, qualified for his commis-
sion at Duntroon, and was last heard of at
Salisbury Plains.
Just-dead Douglas Price, M.A., was, a
few years ago, an Anglican parson, who used
to paralyse his high-toned parishioners by
breadth of view and faculty for assimilating
orthodox Christianity and evolutionary phi-
losophy without the least inconvenience.
When Anglicanism could no longer tolerate
his dilutions of dogma lie founded a kind
of church wherein he lectured on nearly
every subject under the sun. Gentle, ascetic
and cultivated, he was perhaps the best-read
man in Brisbane.


m
M
■H
m
mam
■H
i
■■ , :
I
■I
SHI
- ;:.
"
,- :;
■P
L H
pr
mps
jfi
■■
i
m
Hi
•i .•
; ;:■
/
■
in
m
m
SB
m
P
1
1
P \
11
■
I
8 : ®iS
:.■;
\ -• jgg -1
®&<fcotch W&M
■ 2 £«fcas - ■
i; af
i
’*' 3fu#u&t ••''sa
*
.'••••••
«ff
!li|||illiii
p^l
lIP pm
HilC=L - ~,«r r-
ft I? fir I n
f u»
pp
6C
PEACE- —AFTER VICTORY.
Givon miho SpiPit s
WATSONS N? IO”


gd
28/6
Post
Free.
American Easy-Fit"
An ideal shape for comfort. Dressy
boot in Patent Calf Skin with Dull
Kid Tops, full roomy toes. Ask for
“The Blaxland.”
28/6.
We pay postage.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely
Vegetable.
fg
CARTERS
IITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill —Small Dose —Sm ill Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
dfg
Between the
Wet Shampoos
use Icilma Hair Powder —
the wonderful English dry
shampoo. No wetting—
no trouble —no danger.
Just a light sprinkling of
the powder and a vigorous
brushing leaves the hair
clean, dry and attractive.
Icilma Hair Powder
is the best of all dry
shampoos—the only one
that readily brushes out.
ffcHmii
Hair Powder
(For Dry Shampoo).
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists Druggis's, Stores, etc.
Icilma. *> pronounced Eye-Sihna.
J. C. Gambles & Co., Agents,
11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
H.l
ALL AUSTRALIANS visaing
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ai.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
REMaRKaBLEDiseoVERy
GREY HAIR
J*Ar>s I&avy Q\)aptt)at) restores I)er1 )er Maif
fo its of igiijal colour, after Ijcntttyg
Beet) eoirjpletekj Grey for 8 years.
ft SIMPLE, HARMLESS METHOD, WAIC/i
CflN BE USED IN ONES OWN HOME
WITH COMPLETE SUCCESS.
m e/^T
m
at the age of 27.) A\afy K.Qiaprpm) at tfje present dag,age3s.)
Tips sl)ows I^er 3
8 YEARS YOUNGER..
Tirjis pbotocjrttpb shows i? er *
8 YEARS OLDER.
MY APPEARANCE TO DAY IS A DELIGHT TO MYSELF,
AND A SURPRISE TO MY FRIENDS .
I, who was once Grey Haired, and belong, to a
prematurely grey-haired family, address the readers
of this paper, in particular, persons who have tried
sundry widely advised preparations for Grey Hair
and have been disappointed with the results. Ido
not wish to criticise these remedies, but users of my
preparation have the firm assurance that IT WILL
DO WHAT IT CLAIMS TO DO. The colour
creating cells of the hair, which have hitherto been
dormant, become revitalised under the influence of
my Specific, and they commence to produce fresh
pigment and the same shade as in earlier years.
The change comes about GRADUALLY, SURELY
and NATURALLY, the improvement is remarkable.
After a few days’ application the hair becomes
richer in colour and the transformation increases
in strength and intensity until the hair is once again
THE SHADE OF YOUTH. Six weeks’ treatment
changed my appearance from that of a prematurely
aged woman and gave me back the hair of my
girlish days to the astonishment of myself and the
surprise of my friends. Since. I have introduced my
preparation to public notice numerous people of
both sexes and of all classes, who I only know
through my extensive correspondence have written
to me acknowledging the same MARVELLOUS
EFEICACY of this formula, which they say is unlike
anything they have hitherto tried. It was through
my own greyness that 1 came into possession of this
wonderful remedy, the fruit of the work of a Scien-
tist who had made the CHEMISTRY OF THE
HAIR the favourite hobby dudy (not for money-
making motives) of his leisure hours, and amidst
the Legions of Grey Hair Preparations, it is the one
genuine prescription that RESTORES THE COLOR
BY A NATURAL PROCESS. Many, in fad the
great majority, of Grey Hair preparations eventually
ruin the hair, but my remedy is ABSOLUTELY
HARMLESS and Will help develop a drong and
beautiful growth of hair.
I wish every grey haired man and woman who
reads this announcement to try my remedy, and I
offer a reward of £lOO if this Guaranteed Genuine
Preparation can be proved not to have restored grey
hair to Original, Natural Colour. My Genuine
Specific opens up a sure avenue of escape from the
grave disadvantages of grey hair, in fad you need
not remain grey another week if you make up your
mind to give my preparation a fair trial. If you
have in the past been disappointed by trying this,
that and the other thing, do not be discouraged but
write or call to-day. Simply write your name and
address plainly on the coupon below. State whether
Mr., Mrs. or Miss and enclose 2 stamps for postage,
and I will send you in a plain sealed cover, complete
instructions.
FREE COUPON'
Cut out this Coupon to-day and post, with your
name and address, and enclose two stamps, to Mrs.
Mary K. Chapman, Suite 56, Falmouth Chambers,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney (just below G.P.0.), when
complete instructions to restore Grey Hair to its
natural color and beauty of youth will be sent by
return of post, under sealed cover.
Name
Address
f
BUY the British White Stocking
to-day—“ Jason ” Elite—of all
Drapers.
Try the cooling, skin-soothing effect of this
“ Jason ” hot-weather wear, a very special
line bearing the “Jason” Brand, which guarantees
the finest, silkiest “ finish ” ever put on a stocking.
Wear “ Jason ” because of their quality, their entirely
British make, and the satisfaction ensured by the
brand—
49
99
gd
Quality Stocking’s & Socks for Ladies, Children & Men.
Illustration shows the “jason” Elite Stocking.
Finest woven plain mercerised lisle leg, ankle &
instep and all-wool 3-in. double top. Specially
strengthened wool foot ; in champagne, black & white.
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere. In case of difficulty w ite to
JASON HOSIERY CO., LEICESTER, ENG. 'j
fg
Tf any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
| “Ortheris”: Enter for your mean-man
competition the thief who stole from a
returned transport at Port Melbourne the
trick terrier Anzac, a real dog-of-war who
had seen service in Gallipoli, Egypt, France
and Belgium, and was the stay and com-
fort of Private G. D. Beer, now at Caulfield
Base Hospital. Though Anzac was allowed
the freedom-of London, where he gained the
special notice of Queen Alexandra, the
Customs authorities refused him a landing
when he came back to Australia, aud as his
master could not remain on the transport to
look after him, the thief had his opportunity.
The dog left Australia as a pup three weeks
old with the First Artillery Brigade, and
was fed on the bottle. He quickly became
an old_ soldier, and would lie in bed and
have his pulse and temperature taken like a
human patient. Ragtime dancing, standing
on liis head, and coming to “ ’shun !” with a
pipe in his mouth were among his minor
accomplishments.
A really original and picturesque will has
been upset by the Supreme Court of South
Aus. An eccentric spinster left £5OOO to
“develop kauri and other valuable forests
of hundreds of varieties of Bambusa, and fill
them with local and foreign song and useful
bird-life, in the inland districts of Australia.”
The other legatees objected that it couldn’t
be done; and Capt. S. A. White. Adelaide’s
chief authority on bird-life, supplied a strong
affidavit that the trees wouldn’t grow, the
birds couldn’t live in them if they did, there
is no society to carry out the work, and
anyway the £5OOO is not enough, meaning
only about £2OO a year. The Chief Justice
turned the idea down as “fantastic and im-
practicable.” There was still a question
whether the money should be devoted to the
nearest “charity” that is practical—in this
case, afforestation. But the Court decided
that that was not the intention; so the
family gets what the lawyers don’t.
No wonder the enemy calls us “silly
Pritishers.” Here is an excerpt from a
letter from a Northern sugar farm. It was
written by a girl to her soldier-brother who
is now in camp at five bob a day:—
We had a gang of six Germans and gave them £1
a day, but they were all the time grumbling. When
they had cut about a quarter of the cane they pulled
out. They said it was too far from the barracks,
which are only a quarter of a mile off. However, we
secured a gang of Spaniards, and they insisted on
occupying our house, so we all had to go into town
to live till the cane is cut.
Meantime State Governments are still bor-
rowing and spending millions “in order to
give our own people employment.”
Government experiments in feeding cattle
on prickly-pear at Wallumbilla seem to
solve some of the drought problem. On
chopped pear, with the addition of concen-
trated food costing 2d. per head a day, stock
thrived for 150 days without water. Fur-
ther, the animals put on flesh, and settled
for all time the fallacy that pear turns the
fat yellow.
“Rangan”: Early next year ' Banana-
land’s new cement co. will start to provide
some of the 40,000 tons of cement the State
annually imports along with its toys,
clotlies-pegs, etc. The co. began badly, as
some of its £200.000 or so had to go
towards “transferring the contract to Eng-
land” when the war broke out —where from
it is needless to say. Once on its legs, how-
ever, the co. should do well. Its plant is
only a few miles from the limestone quarry,
right up against the Darra (Ipswich) shale
beds, and 10 miles from the coalfields; and
though Australia doesn’t know enough about
cement-making plants to be able to swear
that this one will be a success, the foreign
experts swear that it is all right. Some of
them, in fact, encourage us to expect the
time when we shall get cement at a dollar
a barrel, same as Uncle Sam.
A new fish lately presented to the Brisbane
Museum has been christened Something -or*
other Theodorei, in compliment to the
Treasurer. The marine curio is described as
an “elegant species with beautiful colora-
tions”—just like a spendthrift Labor Budget
before" the Auditor-General's comments dull
its brilliancy.
Gunn, who represents a .border electorate
in the Bananaland Assembly, is the latest
Parliamentary convert to Unification. The
anti-Federal attitude of the Ryan Govern-
ment in stopping live-stock traffic south-
wards was the deciding factor.
Brisbane Grammar School has certainly
done its little bit in the Big Scrap. To date
it has sent 680 old boys to the Front. The
original 9th Battalion had eight of them as
officers and there were scores in the ranks;
and the 15th w*as commanded by •an old
Brisbane Grammar boy, with another as
second in command and about eight more
with commissions. The first two Light
Horse regiments from Queensland also had
old B.G.S. boys in the most important com-
mands. The roll includes such names as
Brig.-General Foott (son of Mrs. Hannay
Foott), Brig.-General Sellheim, Lt.-Col.
Hubert Harris, and Lt.-Col. G. H. Bourne,
hero of the Romani battle. So far no V.C.
has come the way of the school, but there
are several D.S.O.’s and a number of Mili-
tary Crosses and Military Medals. •
“J.D.C.” : A peculiar thing about telegraph
operating is that, after years of key work,
many men become what we call “broken
down.” The Americans call it getting “glass
arni.” By that or any other name it is just as
rotten. The afflicted telegraphist finds diffi-
culty in making some letters on the key, and
as time goes on the number of difficult let-
ters increases. It is pitiful to watch the
contortions of a broken-down man trying to
send. It is more pitiful to have to receive
from him at the other end. Medical autho-
rities don’t seem to be able to exactly define
the complaint, but undoubtedly nerve strain
is a factor. Some years ago an American
invented a machine which mechanically
makes the dots, the dashes being sandwiched
in by the telegraphist. Variations of this '
idea are embodied in several semi-mechanical
senders now in use throughout Australia,
and they are a godsend to the tired light-
ning-jerker.


Make the happiness of Christ mas
live forever—in Kodak pictures
M
11
1
Add zest to the merry-making on Christmas Day, to the
happy Christmas holidays, and to the good times in the years
to come —by getting a Kodak to-day.
You can learn to use a Kodak in a few minutes, and can
begin taking pictures immediately.
The joy of Kodak-picture making will appeal to your friends,
too —and no better gift is possible than an Autographic
• Kodak. Prices range from 30/- to £l5/2/-
The No. 3a Folding; Atitog'rapkic Kodak has every point
of efficiency that you can seek, yet it is strikingly simple to use. Takes the
popular postcard pictures —5f x3f inches. Price £5/10 -
The Autog'raphic Kodak Juniors represent splendid value, for they
ai'e fine cameras yet very moderate in price.
The No. 1 takes pictures 2\ x 3j inches. Price
The No. la, for pictures 2f x inches. Price 50/-
.The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak —The Soldier’s Kodak
—is ideal for the soldier either in a training-camp or at the Front. Takes
pictures 2\ xlf inches, and these make fine postcards. Price 30/-
The No. 1 Brownie —Price 5f-
This is suitable for a boy or girl. Takes pictures 24 x 24 inches. Price
Others up to 50/-
Ask for the new illustrated booklet, “ Picture Making with a Kodak.”
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Buthven Street, Toowoomba, l-'linders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, also corner Bambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
Detroit Factory
of the
Hupp Motor Car
Corporation.
rX
Over 500.000 square
feet of floor space in
tlvti
Hupmobile Factory.
Win Who Have the
Right Thought at Heart.
This is true of automobile manufacturers as well as
of nations.
Because it had the purpose always to give buyers of
Hupmobiles the largest value for their money, the Hupp
Motor Car Corporation has made and sold four models in 8
years and has not one failure to record.
Since the Model “20” which circled the globe in 1909,
Hupmobile qualities have been world-wide standards of
excellence ; 50 per cent, of the Hupmobiles sold every year
are sold to former Hupmobile owners.
This faith in Hupmobile goodness we think is a tribute
to our honesty of purpose.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hupmobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (32in. x s£in.).
Transmission- Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch. Bear Axle floating type, spiral bevel gear. Cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze shell, babbitt
lined. Fong wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater). Tyres 880 x 120 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 4iin. on 7-seater. Electric
starting and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man hood; quick-acting side curtains; door curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer; robe rail, foot rail and
carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and
seat covers at small additional cost over list price of car.
Hupp Motor Car Corporation,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES DTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 2nd November, 1916.
Tenders for the Supply of Dynamos,
Swithchboard, Motors, Balancers, and
Control Gear, for Power Plant for
Flinders Naval Base.
TENDERS will be received, subject to the
conditions of tendering, until 12 noon
on Wednesday, 31st January, 1917, for the
supply of Dynamos, Switchboard, Motors,
Balancers and Control Gear for Power Plant
for Flinders Naval Base.
Tender forms, specifications and any fur-
ther particulars may be obtained at the
Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; and at the Naval
Stall' Offices, Brisbane; Edgecliff (Sydney) ;
Birkenhead (S.A.) ; Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Legal Notices.
liST THE MATTER OF THE ESTATE OF JOHN
CROW late of Bostobrick, near Dorrigo, Grazier,
drceased, intestate.
1 ANE and JOHANNAH tlie sisters of the above-
named deceased or if deceased their issue (if
any) are requested to communicate with the under-
signed regarding their shares in the estate of the
said deceased.
T. W. GARRETT,
, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Xivoli Theatres JLtd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1“I V OLI THEATRE, SIDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"T" I VOL,I THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Grand Reappearance of
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK CANNOT, GEORGE
WELCH, WALTER WEEMS, THELMA RAYE,
DAISY and SYDNEY YATES, LADY-SEN-MEI,
BILLY REGO, and others.
Plan at Glen’s.
LJE R % MAJES T Y ’S, SY I) NE Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY. CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
A SCINTILLATING SUCCESS.
THE CINEMA STAR.
Most Resplendent of the Theatrical Firmament.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
“THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
RETURN OF THE POPULAR BERT BAILEY CO.
A GREAT CHRISTMAS PRODUCTION.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY.
NEXT SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23.
The Absorbing and Exhilarating Anglo-Australian
Comedy-Drama,
JUST A GIP L.
By CHARLES GARVIQE.
QUITE RIO N THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present FLORENCE
ROCKWELL and a brilliant cast, including FRANK
HARVEY, in
TILE LAND OF PROMISE.
By W. SOMERSET MAUGHAN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
P ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT at 8.
Holiday Matinees as Usual.
Return of J. & N. TAIT’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in
PEG O’ M Y HEART.
The most popular of all plays. Plans at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
MONDAY NEXT.
J. & N. TAIT announce a
GRAND XMAS NIGHT CONCERT.
Artists include LAWRENCE CAMPBELL, Mr
MALCOLM McEACHERN, Mr. FLOREHT HOOG-
STOEL, Miss GLADYS DAVIS, Mr. CLAUD
McBURNEY, Mrs. CHILDE, etc.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plans at Nicholson’s.
WHITE CIT Y
TO-NIGHT.
7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Baysvvater Road, Darling-hurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8,15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
dfg
T KIANGLE plays at
' the LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session ;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: OcJ. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West's Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 Turn, to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. I). WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 23.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza, %
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-
•y HEA T RE It OVA E, MELIiOU UN E.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAY’S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous
Propagandist Play,
DAMAGED GOODS.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 23.
First Appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
UIC HA ED lIT.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
ICING’S THEATRE. M ELItOI RN E.
Lessees Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Miss KATE HOWARDS presents an absorbing New
and Original 4-act Drama,
THE WHITE SLAVE TRAFFIC.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
ARCADIA, ST. HILDA, MELBOURNE.
n Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
THE PINK DANDIES.
every Evening at 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen’s
and Habers’.
"|“ HE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
FOUR SESSIONS DAILY,
2, 3.30, 7.30 and 9.
E. J. CARROLL presents
WHERE ARE MY CHILDREN?
A forceful sermon in Moving Picture form.
Prices 6d. and 1/- during afternoon.
- 6d., 1/- and 2/- at night.
CULLE R’S H OTEI, MELBOURNE
■ (adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Amusements.
B 1 It C H & C A li It O JL L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Hr An Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
" Xmas Gifts for
Soldier Friends.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant, memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values: —
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from . 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wris’tlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
. case 4/-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG&AITKEN,
b 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. a
Established over 30 Years.
The Australian
College of Dentistry
{of and within-*the University of Melbourne).
The next Session will Commence on the
Ist day of March, 1917.
THE Council will accept the certificate of
Matriculation provided physics is one
of the subjects of the Ufiiversity of Sydney
as a qualification for entry subject to the
candidate matriculating ad eundem in the
University of Melbourne.
The course is a comprehensive one, and
not only leads to the Degree of Bachelor of
Dental Science but enables the graduate to
register as a dentist in any part of the
British Empire.
Candidates for the Degree of Doctor of
Dental Science must be Bachelors of Dental
Science of at least two years’ standing.
For further particulars apply to the
undersigned.,
E. JOSKE, LL.B.,
454 Collins Street, Melbourne.
O\N 0 \N
7/y
cr'
no
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions. 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE,
df
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do von
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H. L.
708-710
Hutchinson Ltd.,
George .Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
g
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels. „
Montserrat
Lame Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a.British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers,
Cvane Sons Leecher A Webb, Ltd.— Liverpool A London.
8S
r\
Diamond and Gem Rings.
The Finest Selection of New and Up-
to-date Designs in Engagement Rings
is offered at STEWART DAWSON'S.
5-Diamond Engagement Rings,
£5/5/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO/10/-, etc.
Rare Gem Rings
for Xmas Engagements
and Gift 'Giving.
Drop a Postcard for our ATTRACTIVE XMAS CATALOGUE
Handsome 2-stone
Diamond King,
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £6/10/-
Larger Stones,
£7/10/- and
£B/10/-
Fine 3-Diamond
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold.
Price, £lO.
Others, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-,
£B/10/-
K 215. —■ Two-stone
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set in Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £3/10/-
am
Solid 9ct. Gold
Ring, inset any
Battalton Colors.
Lady’s Ring, 21/-
Gent’s Ring, 25/-
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box, 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests.. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold AVater, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two. : .special Grill-rooms are attached, in
add: t: mi. to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Giiests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the . Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
.o.
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
, WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You’ll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith" Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring- your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents:—
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to SO-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for. catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
dfg
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat' Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free*
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.


Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“I was suffering from eczema for
about-six weeks. It broke out on my
neck and ears. At first it was red and
scaly and was terribly itchy. When I
first started to scratch it eruptions
formed. I had to keep my face covered
as it was terrible to look at.
“I saw the Cuticura advertisement
and wrote for a sample of Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. I bought a cake
of Soap and a tin of Ointment and
before I had used half a tin the eczema
had healed.” (Signed) Miss E. R.
Fogarty, Phil’s Creek, Frogmore, N.
S. W., October 28, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W«
Sold throughout the world.
aioag
Mr. J. Moorehouse, of
Winnipeg, secured this fine
black-tail Deer with his Ross
.280
Like other experienced hunters he
is loud in his praise of the accuracy
and tremendous anchoring power of
the “Ross” and its Sporting Ammu-
nition with Copper Tube Expanding
Bullet, patented. You also should
use them.
Illustrated catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Can.
Information ai*l Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
915
EIEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
ELEY .410 “Fourten"
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Long Rifle
“E" Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L-LONDON
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The Best Bonus - paying: Life Office in the World
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF CASH SURPLUS as at 31st December, 1916.
ALL participating policies effected before that date will share in the CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
CASH BONUS divided for one year, 1915 .. .. . . .. .. £818,528
Yielding Reversionary additions to policies of about .. .. .. .. £1,500,000
Total Bonuses distributed since inception of Society .. .. £20,700,000
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
The whole of the Cash surplus is divided each year among the participating policyholders.
Now is the time to effect an assurance on your life, or a further assurance, so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s Bonus.
Write for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent
of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
The Tootal Guaranteed line of British-made Cotton Fabrics
'3t>BRALC(T>
TOOTALS GUARANTEE IT
Reg d.
27-28" wide Colors indelible
Sound, serviceable and
.easily done -up without
starch. The Home-land
favourite dress material.
Supple-texture—fascinating
patterns —indelible colors.
NAME ON EVERY
YARD OF SELVEDGE
To be had from all
good - class stores.
White
12id.
'• per yard.
Colored & printed
13£d.
per yard.
Bear’d.
Other Tootal Guaranteed lines.
TOOTAL PIQUE. Double width, soft
and supple. In white and colors.
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN. Ready to
wear, replaced free if they lose color.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for Ladies’ and
Children’s Wear. —32 inches wide.
L ISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
LADIES. Self-white and indi lible borders.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
MEN. Self-white and indelible borders.
TOOTAL CLOTH. The guaranteed velvet
fabric—more supple than silk velvet.
Tootal Broadhurst Lee Co., Ltd.,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
TARANTULLE
For Dainty Home-sewn Lingerie and Layettes
40 inches wide in 3 weights.
Standard 1/1 }d. Fine 1/6 d • &*fl/9<L
Free from dressing—sound and delightful
for hand and machine sewing—worthy
fine lace and stitchery. Ideal for trous-
seaux and layettes. Ask for Tarantulle,
and see name on every yard of selvedge.
Australian Agents
STOGDALE & SONS PTY. Ltd., Finks Building,
MELBOURNE, and York Street, SYDNEY
/<? vVJA vN
df
gdf
%
Taking the hill on “top”
The last pinch of the hill doesn’t matter if
you are using the right spirit. Don’t rack
your geafs and race your engine by chang-
ing down. Do the whole climb on top.
You must use “Plume” before you will
appreciate its wonderful qualities. More
mileage, easier starting, cleaner cylinders.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
Under analysis this spirit shows definite
reasons for the production of greater energy
in explosions. Practical demonstration
counts more than theory and practical proof
is to be found in every tin of “ Plume.”
Correct Lubrication
The lubrication of your gear box and
differential is a matter needing great care.
Gargoyle Mobiloil “C” and “CC” or
Gargoyle Mobilubricant are specially
manufactured to meet varying conditions.
Our Recommendation Chart —mailed free
upon request—will show you the grade
you should use in your car. “A grade for
each type of Motor.” For sale at all
dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Pb 2
/
6>wkVs
Av u V\
The Inky Way.
C. Melton, of the Brisbane Courier, has
had 57 years’ service on that paper. The
old gentleman—though in nothing but in
mere years is he old —often walks from Bris-
bane to Sandgate and back (25 miles) for a
bit of exercise. His memories of early Bris-
bane roam away to the time when Woolloon-
gabba was wattle-scented, when Moreton Bay
sent representatives to the N. S. Wales Par-
liament, and when one could wade across the
Brisbane River at points where ocean liners
now float.
* * * *
Prom S. M. Herald’s report of the Angli-
can Synod (6/12/’l6) :
The toast was honored, and the entire assemblage
sang “Praise God, from Whom all blessings flow.”
Mr. T. A. Dibbs responded.
We hate to seem pernickety: but, really,
isn’t Mr. Dibbs taking too much upon him-
self?
. A * * *
'Every year Australia To-day improves
as a national advt. The issue for 1917 is
the twelfth and the most alluring. The contri-
butions range from the figures of the various
statisticians to the tales of Sundry. Even the
G.-G. has been given a chance to do some-
thing for the country that keeps his billy
boiling. “Forestry in Australia” —forestry
being one of his specialties—is the text of
his sermon. The cover is Norman Lindsay’s
and the rest of the publication is too numer-
ous to mention. The spreading Commercial
Travellers are the publishers.
Now in the artillery, camp at The Warren,
Marrickville (N.S.W.), R. R. Kidston, “war
barrister” — -i.e., one of those who have
taken an early exam, so that they
may get to the Front. He was well
known to Sydney undergrads as “Horace
de Vere” and “Maurice Typert”; under
those pen-names he contributed to Hermes
and the “books” of the last four Uni.
pageants. Chris Brennan signalled him
as a coming poet; and Adrian Consett
Stephen found him a loyal second in his
(Stephen’s) dramatic ventures. After
graduation Kidston held a captain’s com-
mission on the Censor’s staff, but finally
decided that that was no place for a fit man
when there were returned soldiers available.
* * * *
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”:—
A building of much interest to the Inky Way is
being demolished. It’s a few yards north of The
Bulletin office. The building was of the
Macquarie era and on the site of a virgin grant to
George Johnston, an officer of marines who later on
became Colonel of the N.S.W. Corps and deposer
of Captain Bligh. Here were buildings known as
Redman’s Court, Mr. Redman being an old-time
gaoler; and therein was the office of what is now
the S. M. Herald, first published in 1831 “in
Redman’s Court, by Stephens, Stokes and McGarvie.”
* * * *
Few front-rank penmen have wandered as
much as Fred W. Ward. It was William
Curnow, also an ex-Wesleyan parson, who,
when editor of the S. M. Herald, inveigled
him on to the press. After helping Curnow
on the Herald he brought out the Echo
(evening) and then the Mail for the Fair-
faxes. After that he edited the Sydney
Telegraph (1885-90), and then moved on
to London, where he wrote leaders for the
Times and wasn’t happy. Soon back in
Australia he edited the Brisbane Courier
and was associate on the Argus. Henry
Gullett had got the right to nominate his
successor when he retired from the Sydney
Telegraph, and he didn’t think twice when
the time came. The anchor looked as though
it .was down for good when the kindly old
man with the long whiskers left the Tele-
graph to go into retirement. But, unlike
his old friend Gullett, he can’t retire; so he
goes back to Brisbane to help his other old
friend Brentnall with the Telegraph —the
first evening paper he has handled since the
days of the dead-and-almost-forgotten
Echo.
* * * *
Like F. W. Ward, who goes to Brisbane
to edit the Telegraph, Brentnall, the prin-
cipal owner, is a retired Methodist minister.
Fifty-odd years ago he was one of four
young parsons who landed in Sydney. . After
20 years he changed his collar, joined the
staff of the Telegraph, and became a share-
holder and chairman of directors. While
stationed at Wagga he was the parson who
married Tom Castro, the Tichborne claimant.
* * * *
Rather than lose sixpence the Argus the
other day published the following:—
Vacancy for two gentleman boarders, Germans
preferred, all home comforts, near city. ,
Argus.
If the advt. had expressed a preference for
unionists or mere Australians a few of the
Argus’s eyes would probably have seen some-
thing offensive in it.
* * * *
“H. 0.”: This particular snub dditor was
suffering from a morbid desire to tell the
age of everybody. He thought that the
public had a yearning to know that the
drunk and disorderly, who was fined 15 bob,
was 41, and the bloke who pinched a whip
from a cab driver, 39. This craving foT ages
made the evening-paper minion who was
doing the police courts feel tired. He gave
the sub. a hint of his weariness on being
dragged from the court in the middle of a
case to answer the inquiry, per ’phone:
“What was the age of the man who was
committed for stealing a pair of boots?”
“Really., I don’t know,” replied the faithful
tripehound apologetically. “I didn’t get a
chance to examine his teeth !”
PEN AND SWORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two years have passed since war began,
And every day the prints 1 scan.
With joy I see
That Germany
Is in Hell’s hottest bin.
I know the wires are gospel facts
For even in religious tracts,
Yea, in the Age,
Our vict’ries rage,
And yet the blighters won’t give in.
Great Heavens, perhaps—’sh, ’sh, speak 10w....
They’re bound to get the Argus, though.
N. S. W.
BILLY B.


EVERY RIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
RIFLES 8 RIFLE CARTRIDGES. As soon as the restriction on these goods
has been lifted we will notify the public through our advertisements.
I
I
BOXING
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.' Seto f4
real leather, special value £/Q
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 9/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
* oz - 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 02 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6orB oz 20/- 30 /«
BRYAN’S CHAMPION, extra special, 6oz 25/« ’
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snoyvy”) Baker. . 27/6
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z... 35 /_
(Postage" on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 6/-"
„ Best napa, „ mi
~ Tan Leather, ~ „ ".'.'. £/"
„ very superior, „ „• 10/is
.. Laced, „ „ tQ/fi I* 6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)'
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND
7in. wide (Post 4d.) ’ 7/6each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3ioz. (Post 6d.) ..., 17/6 pair
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with All
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
gd
PUNCHING BALLS.
f?> carr . y ® wide range, including the famous REACH
Ralls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast.... 8/6. 12/6 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and IiveIy—
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional’swinging Bull,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made j _
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 9/6, 12/6 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, ’special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings ...... 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALE, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 52/6
Above balls fitted with. Moseley’s best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
BALL GLOVES, 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 pr. PLATFORMS,
33/-, 50/-, 80/- each. BALL AND SOCKET
SAVIVELS, 1/6, 2/6 each. BALL-BEARING
SWIVELS, 3/6, 4/6, 5/- ea. BALL MITTS, 2/6 pr.
We Specialise in All Kinds of Sporting Repair Work
For full particulars of all indoor and outdoor Sporting Materials, see
our new edition illustrated Sports Magazine Catalogue. Free on request.
ICK SIMMONS b
m
MAYMARKET
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: Xl9 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
„ SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Placed First
in order of merit by doctors, nurses, and mothers, through-
out the world ; prescribed by British doctors for 35 years;
used in all great hospitals, and convalescent homes ; ordered
by the Australian Red Cross for the Anzac hospitals.
This is the record of
V
919 A
Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
Different from other foods and most highly nutritive.
Invaluable for backward and ailing children, in illness and
convalescence, and for aged persons.
Benger's is a most interesting food to prepare. The changes it undergoes teach a lesson
in human digestion. It is all explained in our book, post free. Every mother should read it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, Engand.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY. •
And at New Yokk (U S.A.) 90, Beekmau St. Depdts throughout Canada.
m
Motor-
Driven
Warning
Signal,
£2/12/6
Warning' Sig'nal
Now the WORLD’S STANDARD
WARNING SIGNAL
The commanding blast of the Stewart Warning
Signal is now familiar the world over.
Yon hear it over the hills and prairies; you hear it in'
the farmlands and around the ranches; you hear
it penetrating through forests, along rivers, streams
and lakes; you hear it on metropolitan boulevards,
as it makes the surging crowds stop, look and
listen. In short, you hear it everywhere.
The Stewart Warning Signal is of comparatively
recent introduction, yet now stands first in sales.
The hand-operated Stewart Warning Signal costs
but £l/10/=; the motor-driven Stewart, £2/12/6.
No others are better, although all others cost more.
Buy a Stewart Warning Signal for your car.
Stewart products will cost you nothing extra
on your new car, because most good cars are
so equipped . Buy one that is equipped with
Stewart Tyre Pump, Stewart Speedometer,
Stewart Vacuum System and Stewart
Warning Signal, it is a mark of quality .
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Garages—Everywhere—or write
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney,
“No car is better than its accessories.”
Vl';
Hand-
Operated
WARNING
SIGNAL,
£l/10f
fg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


REXONA SOAP FOR BEAUTIFUL HAIR
Miss
GRACE
LA VERS
{from, a
photo, by
Monte
Luke.)
m
mm
m
m
m
M
m
m
Miss Grace Lavers is one' of the brightest,
prettiest and most tuneful members of the
“So Long, Letty,” Co., at present touring
Australasia. Miss Lavers uses Rexona Soap
for her beautiful hair, and joins the Rexona
Girls’ Club with these words: —
“I am delighted
with your Rexona
Soap, and am sending
you my photograph to
show how much good
it has done my hair.
I have been using it
now for nearly three
months, and it makes
the hair so soft and
fluft’y, that I am always
going to continue to
use it.
“R exo n a Soap is
miles ahead of any-
thing I have ever tried
, before. Hair tonics
and shampoos do no-
thing like the good
that Rexona Soap does.
I should think that
every girl would use it,
and I am sure they do
if they have once tried
it. It is so good for
the Complexion, too, it
leaves the skin so clear
and fresh.
“I have a pot of
Rexona Ointment, too;
it really is a rapid
healer. I have found
it excellent for prevent-
ing Sunburn. I can
assure you I shall
always go out of my
wav to praise Rexona.
GIRLS! BEAUTIFY YOUR HAIR!
“Yours truly,
“ (Sgd.) GRACE LAVERS.”
Do you know that in less than 10 minutes you can double the beauty of your
hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and
charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Bexona Soap. A delight-
ful surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected or is scraggy, dry, brittle
or thin. Bexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt, or excess oil, and in a few
moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Bexona Soap dissolves every
particle of dandruff 1 , cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, forever stopping-
itching and falling hair. If you care to have pretty hair, and lots of it, get a tablet
of Bexona Soap to-day. Price, 1/- tablet. Bexona the Bapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-.
©
o
0
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
*
r
m
■
m
c)T,o^
%J>
As supplied to H. M.
Queen Alexandra
ZENOBIA PERFUMES reflect Nature with unsur-
passable exactitude. They enable you to enjoy the
charming odour and refreshing fragrance of choice
old English flowers, in all their pristine freshness.
Zenoliia Sweet Pea Blossom A delightful perfume : delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night Scented Stock A revelation in perfumes. The
very bi -eath of this sweet-scented flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley —A perfume of rare delicacy and charm.
ENOBIA
JRUE
gP &
Zenobia British Eau de Cologne surpasses all foreign makes.
Zenobia Greeting Sachets —An exquisite Zenobia Perfume in a Book-
form Sachet, combining a pretty Christmas card. Nearly ioo designs.
ZENOBIA, LTD.,LOUGHBOROUGH,LEICESTERSHIRE,ENG.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
z.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Lee—Fore—Brace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIERE’S a call will surely haunt me
till I reach the final goal,
A call that brings my boyhood back
to me —
A rotten sort of curse that clings like
burrs thick on my soul,
A curse enhanced by thirsty years of sea; _
It tells me of my first trip, and a big
Norwegian mate,
With lungs the Bashan bull could not dis-
grace,
Keeps yelling out one order like a herald
sent by Fate:
“Come, shift yehselves, yeh blankers! Lee —
fore —brace!”
Lee — foweri-—brace!
Each man goes to his place
Cursing every mother’s son that owns the
blank Norwegian race.
Then: “Heave and bust the backstays—
heave and.... that’ll do, make fast !”'
And you’ll get the same damned order thrice
before the watch is past !
When our eyes are blind with Cape Horn
spray and “greybeards” sweep the decks,
And all the gear is coated thick with ice, _
Cockney Bill will wax facetious —we’re *in
water to our necks —
Saying: “Why go dahn ter Mawgit—ain’t
this nice?”
But we’ve little time for joking, for the old
man’s cracking on, x
And the sheer-poles dip right under on our
lee,
And we know the fo’c’s’le’s flooded —not a
dry stitch left to don —■
Whilst we’re thinking what we’re going to
have for tea.
Lee — fower. —brace !
Oh ! lie’s everything that’s base
Is that mate. .. .“Look out! Hold fast!” a
curler misses by an ace !
“That damned old howlin’ square-head’s
’azin’ us fer flamin’ spite,”
Growls Yankee Jack—' “l’ll fix ’im if we get
ter port all right!”
When we’re making spunyarn sennit —“just
to keep the watch employed”—
And we’re thinking that we all could keep
one down,
And Cockney Bill is telling of a spree that
he enjoyed
With lurid details culled from Canning
Town.
And German Frank is telling us “dot Sit-
ney vos der blace
Vere lofely leedle frauleins, yoost so high,
Vos vaitin’, for der askin’, dot vos so, ja” !
Lee — fore —brace !
We drop our balls of spunyarn and stand by.
Lee —fore—brace !
No more talk of skirts and lace.
“Move yehself, yeh big fat Deutscher, you’re
a filthy old disgrace!”
And the old man at the fife-rail he applauds
the second mate:
“Well, the mate has got you trained well,
Mr. Brown, at any rate!”
When we get up wet and hungry in the
morning from our bunks,
Though all we feel inclined to do is cuss,
We go foraging for scouses, sailors-joys and
dandy-funks
While the cook—a coal-black despot—glares
at us;
Then he opens wide his duff-trap and he
yells at everyone
Till his lips obscure the coastline of his
face:
“If yo’ cain’t come round no soonah, Ah
ain’t gwine ter give yo’ none” !
But his voice is drowned with: “For’ard!
Lee — fore —brace !”
Lee —fore-—brace !
See us playing chevy-chase
With our sea-boots squelching water and
our “maps” one huge grimace!
For we’re scowling hot and dirty ’cause
we’ve lost our bit o’ food ;
But it’s no use getting shirty When we
ain’t on earth for good !
When we’ve dropped the pick in Sydney
after four months on the sea
And we feel at last that we’re upon the
earth,
We’ve got to rig the stages overside and
mournfully
Chip away at iron-rust for all we’re worth.
Hear the owner’s missus chirrup: “Oh, I
think a ship is grand!
A sailing ship—it seems so full of grace !”
I’m thinking as I’m sitting, chipping, ham-
mer in my hand,
Of those words—and of their echo: “Lee —
fore—brace !
Lee — fore — brace!
P’raps the good God has a place
Someivhere up among His angels where a
“shell” can go the pace!
Where there won’t be any “pound and
pint” or rotten Board of Trade,
And we’ll sign on in a gospel ship that won’t
stint marmalade!
N.s.w.
ALBATROSS.
The Dust of March.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nyr O one, upon any occasion, ever smiled
l\ half so earnestly as Tippy Windle;
and here, to-day, he was smiling his
damnedest.
The grave Georgiana turned her exquisite
nose towards him and stared curiously. She
noted that he was younger (yet older) than
she was, that the brown curls were inlaid
with silvery fibrils, that the cheeks had lines
which stood as much for vivacity as for
numbers of years, that the eyes burnt
strongly under the lively wiry brows.
A curtain, with elusive depths of green
in it, gave him the Icarian appearance of a
posed figure standing against the dignified
background of an eighteenth century paint-
ing.
There were a number of good water-colors
on every side; a horde of odd-jacketed books
shoved pell-mellishly into shelves along the
wall, and all begging with one voice for
immediate reading; a bronze miniature fist
shook its menace from a pedestalled wave.
And (supernal enchantment) there was a
carpet that was beautiful.
Georgiana, as still, in proportion, as she
had chosen to be grave, felt, and saw neg-
lected, the warm flutter of her June wood-
fire in all the corners of the room.
There was a spectacular geranium heavily
asleep on the inside windowsill, and the
air was so full of its sensual radiance that
Georgiana focussed it as plainly through the
back of her head as though she were facing
it.
"‘You have always loved me less in
March,” he said, helping her to his mind,
metaphorically, with a saltspoon.
“Why do you talk of March,” she replied,
“when this is already June?”
“Yes.... but there is always the dust of
March! I have adored you for five years,
and in every one of those five, from the
month of March until God knows what time
in July, you have been a difficult creature.”
Georgiana carried her toe over the fender
and assumed the attitude of a hopelessly
puzzled, slightly bored, slightly amused,
wholly beautiful young woman.
Just at that moment one of the swing-
windows flew open with a bang, and she and
Tippy rushed together to shut it.
“Was there ever such a day?”
He leant forward to kiss her, but she
withheld him by an invisible arm-thrust,
and, picking up her book safely, retreated
to the uttermost corner of a sofa. Tippy
occupied the thither end of the same piece
of furniture, from whence he began telling
her he had “had enough of it.”
“You don’t love me the way you used to
do. And wouldn’t it be better for you to
say so, than to have me continually forcing
you to speak untruths which are equally
bad for both of us?
“Look here,” he clamored. “I’m for a
straight-out issue. Do you love me, or do
you not? By God, I know what it is that
you’re after! You would like to evade the
dishonor of being the first to signal ‘enough.’
I can hear your heart already clapping
hands when I tell you that it is finished .
Over for all time!”
Georgiana’s lips appeared numb for a
moment; then they curved themselves up to
represent the smile of a woman who is dead.
She made a movement of her hands, from
her waist outwards, as though conveying a
necklace into the air, and dropping it. Her
teeth sparkled through the dewy dimness of
her mouth; and then, cunningly bending
her beautiful neck, she rested her chin on
her fingers and remained so, for a few
minutes, looking rapturously happy.
At length she straightened up a little and
said, almost with affection: “Tippy, dear,”
and then again, “Tippy, dearest, tell me who
she is?”
Tippy kicked at her cocksparrow toe
perched upon the fender, and the silence re-
mained unbroken while she delicately acted
an assumption of pain.
At last he said : “You’ve heard me talk of
her often.”
“The typist who owns the four Clausens?”
“She has the blackest hair I have ever
seen.”
“I’m glad she hasn’t got red hair. Do
you remember Mrs. Doctor Welton? Red-
haired women are seldom beauties; they
almost invariably have sallow complexions.”
“I saw the Clausens; they are quite won-
derful. Two of them are done on book-size
slate. Nobody else can paint Autumn as
Clausen does. His Summers, too, are posi-
tively thrilling. I could imagine his picture
called ‘The Silent Hour’ withering all the
flowers on your mantelpiece.”
“And has she got ‘The Silent Hour’?”
“Oh, no. Only some pastels he gave her
just before she said good-bye to him in
London.”
Georgiana remained meditatively caress-
ing her lips, with an inchlet of red stuff
taken by sleight-of-hand from a bag in her
lap.
“Now I lcnoic you have been to her
house,” she asserted. “And you never told
me !”
“Only through lack of opportunity,” he
answered. “I went home with her on Mon-
day night. We caught the last tram to-
gether. She had a pile of her husband’s
books, mostly on technical subjects; she
said he had left them in his office when he
went to New Guinea six weeks ago, and they
had lain there ever since. Of course, I tried
to take them from her, and they flopped all
over the floor of the carriage, and the butter
I was carrying went with them; then, after
I had done the picking up, I found she had
paid my fare, and wouldn’t let me return
the money.”
“Come, come! You'd better make a clean
breast of the whole thing,” said Georgiana,
and releasing an ear-ring into the palm of
her very lively little hand sparkled it
between her fingers over the flame in the
fireplace.
“Did you kiss her?”
“Not in the tram. .. .not even in the house
afterwards.”
“Then you ‘did go into the house with
her?.. . .At what an hour!”
“Midnight!. ... But it was all owing to an
accident. She lives in a quite darkish part
of the neighborhood; great street-trees on
either side of the road with only one lamp
too far away to throw any light for protec-
tion. When we got to her gate the garden
was all black inside the pickets of the fence,
and I thought it only right that I should go
up the drive with her, not merely to carry
the books, which were a heavy load, but
also to see her safely to the door.”
“I see it all, I see it all,” said Georgiana,
and dropped the ear-ring into the beautiful
carpet. “Is there a man in this world
capable of an honest and utterly single-
hearted affection?”
“I stepped through the gateway into a
sunken bricked-in entrance with three steps
to rise to the garden, and as I did so I stuck
my foot, almost up to the knee, into a full
bucket of water. You may be sure I hopped
out again more quickly than I had gone into
it, and, afterwards, leant against a pine-tree
while I wrung the dampness out of the edges
of my trousers. Of course, Gadey pretended
to be angry.. . .and sorry, both, at the same
time; but she laughed., for all that, as loudly
as I did, and the end-up of it was I had to
let myself be persuaded to go into the house
to dry in front of the fire.
“The door opened to Gadey’s key, dis-
creetly, and without any more noise than the
(Continued on next page.)


'PveryPlc fit re
Pells Ji 5 lory
&
W,
7
i
V N
1?
I
THE KIDNEYS
NEVER REST.
The kidneys never take a moment’s rest; they keep on with
their great work of filtering out uric acid and kidney poisons,
day after day, night after night, as long as we live. And so
important is their work that, even though they get only a little
behind, no part of the system is free from danger; the back
aches, the limbs drag, the eyelids seem like lead; there are
dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains, dizzy spells, urinary
troubles.
D oan’s Backache Kidney .Pills are special kidney help.
They correct urinary disorders, gravel, bladder troubles —cure
backache, rheumatism, drops}’ and every kidney complaint. The genuine Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills are reliable for men and women, old and young.
Sydney Woman Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. W. Benn, 12 Turner Street, Redfern, Sydney, says“l am quite convinced that I owe my life to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Bills, for this remedy cured me of dropsy and other symptoms of disordered kidneys. My ill-health started with
backache, then I got urinary trouble and dropsy.' My back was always aching, the sharp, shooting pains being so bad that I
would have hot flannels put on to try and get ease. The secretions were thick, and caused intense pain. I was fit for nothing,
feeling tired out always, and I had bad headaches. My legs and feet swelled to twice their natural size ; I could not put my
boots on, and I practically lost the use of my legs. I was really very ill and nobody thought I would ever get well. I tried
every remedy I could hear of, but got no better. The doctors whom I consulted could do me no good, and gave up my case as
hopeless. A friend advised me to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I procured some. The first few bottles gave me
relief, and twelve bottles completed my cure. lam now quite free of the dropsy and backache, and the secretions are regu-
lated. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have cured me completely and permanently, for I have been quite well for two and a half
years now. I cannot sufficiently praise Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills —they saved my life.”
Mrs. Benn makes a second statement seven years later: —“I am pleased to add that I have had no return of dropsy or
any other symptom of kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over nine years ago.”
dfg
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PI LLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
drawing aside of a curtain; then, making
across a shadowy passage, we found our-
selves in what I at mce instinctively felt to
be quite a companionable darkness. This
lasted for just three perfectly-delicious
seconds, and not any longer.
“A soft glow of light filled the room in a
moment, and it was difficult to tell how or
whence it had come into existence. But
there were the four Cl-ausens, an Amand
Jean and a strapping Sargent that looked
almost as though it had been laid in with
whip strokes, a transparent lump of jade,
sago-green, and in the shape of a Chinese
hippogriff, a picture of Norman Lindsay
(drawn by himself) offering his prayers to
the Devil, a crooked sampler framed right
up to the margin, a bowlful of pipes.. . .and
a real live cat in an armchair.
“ ‘Delphine,’ said Gadey to the cat, ‘you
ought to be ashamed of yourself! Why
aren’t you with Dora?’
“ ‘Dora,’ she explained, ‘is my sister. She
has been ill the whole of her life. And
generally, when I come home in the even-
ings, I find Dora sound asleep in her bed,
with Delphine clasped tight to . her breast.’
Then she took the cat by the soft, elastic
back of the neck and kissed its paws for
punishment.
“ ‘There’s an English translation of
Rabelais might shock you,’ she continued,
nodding her head at a thick red volume on
a shelf. ‘You will find six original and
entirely wicked drawings in it by August
Helmholtz. My husband says they are
valuable.’
“By this time I had laid my load of tech-
nical literature on a small side table, and
was looking ruefullv at my own separate
parcel of squashed butter; thence my gaze
travelled to the wet ends of my unfortunate
trousers.
“‘A quarter past twelve,’ rattled on
Gadey. ‘And here am I asking you to take
an interest in pictures and books when all
your thoughts must be turned towards fresh
socks and —toast.’ (She had mentioned
toast for supper.)
“ ‘Because 1 have got fresh socks,’ she
continued. ‘I finished some a week ago, and
as the heels all went wrong I was too
ashamed to send them to the soldiers. Stay
here and I’ll bring a pair to you.’
“So I remained where I was, and, build-
ing a fire out of some splintered pine-sticks
that lay handy to my reach, stretched back
into the legs of a chair and all but fell off
to sleep.
“The next thing I can remember is Gadey
feeding the cat.
“ ‘Delphine ! Delphine !’ said Gadey ; and
Delphine gave soft, ghostly barks in imita-
tion of a dog. For a reward she received
scraps of tawny red toast saturated with
butter.
“And then, all at once, from some far-
away part of the house, I heard a clock
strike one, and I turned over on my side to
rise up and put an end to my visit.
“Gadey and the cat were both looking at
me. The shadow of Delpliine’s nose and
whiskers danced across the firelit cheeks
of her fascinating mistress.
“Delphine and Gadey were very close to
me. . . .1 inclined three aerial inches nearer.”
“And you kissed Gadey!” interrupted
Georgiana. She was full of well-bred ex-
citement ; her eyes shone gallantly across
the sofa-space between herself and Tippy
Windle until he had no life left that didn’t
hurricane with love for her.
“I kissed. . . .Delphine !”
“Tippy,” said Georgiana. “The dust of
March has blown away. Hold me in your
arms, and don’t let me go until I ask you.”
Tippy had her tight to his breast.
“Mine for ever,” he exclaimed kissing the
top of her chin; and then (to himself) in a
voice nobody on earth could follow, ‘Until
March, 1917!’ ”
After a little while Georgiana permitted
herself to look up into his eyes.
“You don’t love Gadey? Tell me,
Tippy, you don’t love her.”
“I don’t love Gadey.”
“You never ever will?”
“I never ever will. I never ever can.”
“What do you mean by never ever can?”
“She doesn’t exist. Gadey was my....
my. . . .invention.”
“Your invention! And Delphine, too?”
“Delphine, too.”
And then Tippy essayed to kiss Georgiana
for the millionth time; but she hooked her-
self back against the tall, trembling curtain-
fall.
Nevertheless he actuallv accomplished his
purpose, and, in telline- Gadey of it next
day. he said : “For reciprocation, it was like
kissing the beautifullest dead sheep in the
world.”
Gadey flew into a terrible rage.
“I’ll have nothing more to do with you,”
she declared. “Go back to your Georgiana.”
“But I can’t go to Georgiana,” he replied
in a terror. “She doesn’t exist. She’s my
own most sacred invention.”
“You said she had hair the color of barley-
sugar,” snapped Gadey. “And what is the
color of THIS?”
She carefully uncurled a hair off his coat
on the end of her finger.
“Barley-sugar, by thunder!”
And so Tippy lost them both. Gadey.
because she had a very real rival; and
Georgiana because he had told her that
Gadey didn’t exist.
HUGH McCRAE.
“Ham and Eggs.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
»
“T"V OES tlieatricalism,” I asked, “become
j W second nature with some actors?”
We were sitting in the smoking-
room, when a well-known actor walked in
and greeted Brown in an absurdly stagey
manner.
Brown laughed.
“Well, what’s the cause,” I went on, “of
this histrionic —er —phenomenon, this —er —-
psychol”
“Did you ever hear the story of Ham and
Eggs?” lie asked.
When Jones bought the Pictorium he
didn’t expect the combination of amusement
tax, heavy duty on imported films and cut-
throat competition to put him on nodding
acquaintance with the bankruptcy court in
such a short time. Even converting the
theatre into a continuous picture-show didn’t
make the takings look interesting. A
novelty in the programme was needed. Then,
realising the sentimentality of Australian
audiences, he bethought him of Hamilton
and Eggleston, who were familiarly known
in the vaudeville world as Ham and Eggs.
They had appeared with success some years
previously, but being squeezed out by the in-
vasion of acrobats and ragtimers were com-
pelled to take the usual if-it-comes-in-you'll-
get-it engagements, touring the Backblocks.
“Find out where they are,” he directed his
manager, “an’ give ’em a contract; They
haven’t been near the city for years, an !
while the public’s got this patriotic wave
on we won’t run a risk by engaging local
talent
“What’s their turn like?” asked the
manager.
“Rotten from what I remember,” replied
Jones. “Song-an’-dance, made-up as bush-
men, an’ they imitate kookaburras, magpies
an’ sodawater-bottles.”
Ham and Eggs were at Coolctown, with a
troupe full of hope and no money, when the
telegram caught them, and they boarded the
first boat for Sydney. Jones widely adver-
tised the return of Australia’s old favorites,
fresh from foreign successes, and announced
their opening on the afternoon of the boat’s
arrival.
The steamer was late, and Ham and Eggs
stepped ashore to be greeted by an agitated
and perspiring Jones. Then followed a
hurried claiming of trunks, a reckless driv-
ing to the Pictorium, and a frenzied rush to
dress for the opening performance.
“Wish we could’ve seen a bit of old Syd-
ney,” said Ham, rubbing some vermilion on
his nose before a cracked mirror in the
badly-lighted dressing-room.
“Me, too,” replied Eggs. “We c’d put it
over some of them blokes that reckon we’re
has-beens.”
The stage-manager’s yell came down the
stairs. “Hey, Hamaneggs! That’s you.
Come on.”
Dressed as vaudeville bushmen, in red
shirts, white moleskin trousers, and pale
blue sashes in lieu of belts, they ambled on
to the stage set up as a bush scene, singing
their opening lines :
We love to wander ’neath the gum-trees,
Lis’nin’ to the magpie’s cry.
Then a few steps were danced.
With the smell o-of eucalyptus,
An’ the dear old mopoke’s sigh.
Another dance followed, and so on through
the song.
They were enjoying a long-promised smoke
in the dressing-room, and wondering, in the
light of the reception given them, why Syd-
ney hadn’t beckoned sooner, when the stage-
manager’s yell broke in on them again.
“Hamaneggs ! Come on ! Waitin’!”
“But we’ve just done our turn,” said Ham.
“Well, get it into your heads,” the stage-
manager grow-led, “this is a continuous show
—you an’ pictures from 11 a.m. till 11 p.m.
Don’t argue, the stage waits.”
Once more they sang their love of the lofty
gum and danced their appreciation of the
mopoke and the magpie.
About 7 o’clock Ham suddenly discovered
lie was hungry: but the intervals between
their performances, while the pictures were
being screened, wouldn’t allow them chang-
ing into street clothes and going out for
dinner, so they decided to send a boy em-
ployed on the stage, working “effects,” to a
restaurant. The boy gladly dropped a tin
dish containing some shot, which was
swirled around when Niagara Falls appeared
on the screen, and departed on the quest for
food.
In the midst of the meal came the insistent
call from the stage, and so through the even-
ing two weary performers mechanically sang
and danced of joys that were not. Then re-
membering they hadn’t arranged for accom-
modation for the night they sought the stage-
manager.
“Try the Harbor View Hotel,” he advised.
“Round in the back street, an’ handy.”
Refusing Jones’s invitation to supper, they
threw pyjamas and toothbrushes into a suit-
case, and dragged themselves to the hotel,
where they secured a room.
Jones and the manager, sitting back in
their chairs after supper, joined in the
general excitement caused by the clanging
of the fire-engines dashing down the street.
Tljey questioned the waiter.
“They tell me the Harbor View’s on fire,
sir!”
Simultaneously they thought of Ham and
Eggs, and rushing out of the cafe were swept
along by the crowd that were making for the
scene.
Turning the corner they could see the
fire had already eaten into the roof, and
huge flames, vomiting through the windows
of the sixtli and seventh floors, were licking
the walls.
Jones, pushing and jostling through the
swaying crowd of upturned faces, forced his
way to the door of the hotel. Entering the
vestibule, he was jambed against the wall
by the stream of terrified guests pouring
down the stairways and making for the
street. Fighting his way to the office, where
two men were feverishly gathering the books,
Jones shrieked an inquiry for Ham and
Eggs,
“Sixt’ floor. Room ninety, came the
answering yell.
Up the stairs Jones rushed, around count-
less landings, where the long, snaky lines of
hose wriggled under the pressure of water,
up more stairs, till at last he reached the
sixth floor. Half-choked by the clouds of
steam and smoke that rolled down the corri-
dor, he staggered from door to door until he
came opposite Room 90. Rasping for breath,
he tried the door. It was locked !
Yelling in a frenzy of desperation he
kicked and hammered on the door. “Hey,
Hamaneggs ! Hamaneggs ! You there?”
The door opened. Standing together, in
striped pyjamas, with tousled hair, and the-
effects of sleep still weigning down their lids,
Ham and Eggs looked vacantly at Jones.
Then in unison they ambled through the
doorway, singing their opening lines :
We love to wander ’neath the gum-trees,
Lis’nin’ to the magpie’s cry.
RUCHARD BELLAIRS.


Westmgh<me<MonoChain Drives
;S'
d
THE ROCKER-JOINT eliminates fric-
tion, and as there is no slip, power losses
are reduced to a minimum. Our chain
business is constantly increasing, prov-
ing that engineers are realising the
advantages to be gained by using
ROCKER-JOINT CHAINS.
Ask for Booklet 8.M.310 when making your
inquiry.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
"MTU ‘IS3M aaoonoa
gf
DINNEFGRD’S
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DIHNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
gf
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
g
Economy
For all-round tube-screwing' use
the time-saving
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
504-A
lin. to
4in.
Screws.
Tubes,
Bolts,
Nipples.
and save money oTtr hand-screwing.
Furnished in four sizes for belt or
motor drive. Dies and extra parts
carried in stock here. Ask for catalog.
THE OSTER MFG. CO., Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative—
CHAB. J. WRIGHT. Box 251 C.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic. [2
fg
The Mirror Test
A handsome mirror will show
every speck and smear and
scratch. There is only one
cleaner that cleans perfectly
enough to be used on mirrors
—that is Bon Ami. This is a
very soft mineral soap which
works like a metal polish. You
apply a thin, white lather of
Bon Ami on the glass, let it
dry and wipe it off.
It will not scratch. It is not
oily. It leaves no smears be-
cause it comes off dry.
Bon Ami is the only cleaner
in its class. It is a special
cleaner for mirrors, windows,
polished metals and enamel.
It is not for hard scouring, but
just for cleaning and polish-
ing smooth surfaces which are
too delicate to be cleaned by
scouring soaps,
w.
At your grocers ,
“There is nothing else like it.**
JT® the
Finer Kinds of
“Indispensable”
a word largely used in these days—may be said to accurately express,
in so far as any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beeeham’s Pills. They consider that Beeeham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness;
and they never allow themselves to be without a supfJly of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation—for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine—one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “ out of sorts ” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed—Beecham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;— they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never to be without
BEECHAJVI’jS
PIELJ3
m «■* » "v m m m
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1| (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
THREE "RTBBEE TYRES
dfg
ƒ dfg
rsrsivi
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and -prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St.. London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B.— 70
gf
eP fill
What is Talcum Powder?
TALGUM is an inorganic
substance —neither damp-
ness, heat or perspiration
affect it. Rice, starch, and
other vegetable powders are
organic —they are affected
by temperature and mois-
ture —perspiration sours
them —when sour they be-
come a source of irritation
and a breeding place for
infectious germs.
njM
V
N
i
M
M
Borated Talcum Powder
will not sour or ferment; and, medicated in the proper
proportion, covers baby’s skin with a protective coating
against threatening germs.
You use Talcum Powder in such unlimited quantities on
the sensitive skin of your baby, that the selection of a pure,
safe powder is of great importance.
FOR GROWN-UPS
Mennen’s Scented Toilet Talcums
Sen Yang— With a seductive odor of the Orient.
Flesh Tint— With the odor of Roses, and delicately pink.
Violet— With the dainty scent of “Violettes de Panne.’*
Cream Tint—A ••Rachel” powder, with an orange blossom odor.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
g
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.


Tlie All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGRovrr
LEATHER
LTI
whioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
tm*
iff
AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” Brand
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen from Best Sheffield
Crucible Cast-Steel Plates. Sizes 6in. dia. to 72in. dia.
BAND-SAWS, V 8 to wide.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALITY.
IRON AND STEEL FOR MACHINE KNIVES.
R 62 SPECIAL MILL-SAW FILES.
Testimonial from an Australian Sawmiller :—“When
I bought that 42in. saw from you I also got some
Special Files. Have you any moi*e? There is none
other that we have used to hold a candle to them.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian
Offices—
r 379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street,
-J 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street,
lßrisbane: John Reid & Nephews; Adelaide: Charles Atkins & Co
Sheffield, England.
HARDIE’S
GENUINE
gd fg
Sheets & Slates for all Building Purposes.
REXILITE
fg fgf
Flat Hoofing and Dampcourse
(Approved by Public Works Department)
The Building Board madefrom Root Fibres
For Interior Walls and Ceilings.
Write for Samples from
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings,
Brisbane; and at Adelaide.
WOLFE’S
Should be in
Every Home.
Btiy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPPS
Tangye Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
‘Buncle” Chaffcutters
We beg to notify Farmers
and Chaffcutting Con-
tractors that we are now
SOLE AGENTS for New
South Wales for above
celebrated Cutters, and
are in a position to supply
various types and sizes of
these well-known
Machines promptly on re-
ceipt of order.
Clayton k .Shutticworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Write us for illustrated and descriptive Catalogues.
One of the above Cutters, driven by either a TANG YE LAMPLESS OIL
ENGINE or CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam Engine, forms an
ideal CHAFFCUTTING PLANT, and will give wonderful satisfaction.
Sole Agents
Tangye Oil Engine driving Centrifugal Pump for Irrigati
gf
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Tangye Pumps and Irrigation Plants.
Nicholson & Morrow Farm implements.
Wolseley Sheep-shearing Machines.
E.R.B. Separator Engines.
E.R.B. Farm Pump Engines.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACH IN ES
Proof of “Wolseley” efficiency
, am OTI _._ T „„ , , . Forbes, Thursday.
rAbl bHtiAIiiNG.—A shearing record was created at Gulgo shed by a
team of nine men, who shore a total of 1835 sheep in one day. This is
regarded as an Australian record.”—E. News, 26/10/’l6.
The whole of the machines (10 in all) used at Gulgo shed were “The
Wolseley. . The manager, Mr. J. J. Gavel, referring to the matter, writes:
„' rhls was just an ordinary run of sheep, mustered in the usual way from
the paddocks, aim %n no way prepared or picked out— as is sometimes done
when good ‘tallies’ are put up.”
Use the machines that do the work best for shearers and owners.
Write for details of “The Wolseley,” mailed post free, or call for demon-
stration.
Australasian Agents: Oalgety & Company, Ltd.—All Branches.
gfg
This is the Pulley
generally asked for—
But, to those that prefer them, we carry large stocKs of WOOD
CAST-IRON and WROUGHT-IRON Split Pulleys in all sizes
up to 60in. diameter.
Philips Pressed Steel Split Pulleys
are not ordinary "StocK” Pvilleys—their construdion represents tile greatest
a " d f OR general all-round engineering
* ALfORY WORK appeal to the most discriminating of Power Users.
distributing
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
rZ'rn
BfR
‘VV-.
r :
m
' l I
jj&EPvj .* " i
A GREAT LABOR SAVER.
Keystone Traction Steam
Shovel Road Grader s Ditcher
will cut ditches one to four feet wide to a depth of 20ft. Capacity,
150 to 300 cub. yds. in ten hours. Capacity on road work, 250 to
400 cub. yds. Will safely cross any bridge or culvert that will
carry a ten-ton steam-roller. As compared with big shovels the!
Keystone will cut your moving costs 75 to 90 per cent.
For further information apply to Australasian Agents
. GUTHftiDGE LTD.
Equitable Building,
350 George St., Sydney.
