

El’S— The Genial Spirit
R. Car. WATKINS & 00-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant. Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
. specialty * AUCIIONHERS FOR M ACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D BI C? L*b
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNtTT, General Manager,
hob Art.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
.Huron’s
Pirveo|»|>l c."
Hamdd 6acoi\
's~&d / £r> /g,
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
L
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
GOLF
BALLS
“THE SILVER KING”
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLF
BALLS
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY*
Roofing
m
_jdL>
3
Not the same as others.
Malthoid Booting: is not only water-
proof, weather-proof and spark-
proof, but it lends itself to the
Architect’s decorative schemes.
There is no “prettier” roofing: than
Malthoid, and none more satisfac-
tory. Let us send Samples and
Booklets. Paraffine Paint Co. (D.
S. Evans, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA.
SPECIAL
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. »
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the I resh Flowers.
FREZONE
lavender
WATFR
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1895.]
[Thursday, June 8, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


MOTOR HANDBOOKS
tkeitm
in pars* ii.fi***.>
Ttee istsvCir HtTvfoci, ilhs.
TV- \BC the - £i)
Itrrit- ' VJ**W , .
f j itv) to F:*c Tb«5L il. -r*. *
Y»» Xjßf-Ovdss' ftwix'ioi, bt •'ftiai,
1 ? -MV* _
Tfc* (Vsleesr Masasl tnd Edhit*a, iHsi I S ?i>.
Tb» Basi'iess Mwar RasSbook, b~ G. W_ Ttat*»
2 - C*A>.
Car lasite. bj- E. V.. SLmbob. if,
Write for Full Lists.
At 6EOR6E‘ROBERTSON S CO. PROPTY LTD.. iSS PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
■wccwi isnpsc “i-SAs ¥ -i
(Jfttss ?ql <Sj»J j&qi v*> isfp SC<XJ»;« ®i
yT- *uS '*xu jri csi
~~>a ' iois-ni-V pc? spsxowQ
Ttarwri PT! i;T- -fCiijjsed jsoci *x; Aiy
7«q»?»r w"«»3.. snosmb
f&*t ; -* % *5 I. 1 i* -?f f
i*' jfojuy** •*!»•; * *TI -f***?
jifjsj » » si-'* »«*•>.* *'<-• «* jww:
,/ in
«l ;«•<: <?-.'■ <l*—> *iw* *rn?K?uS
ISYIStC 803 AV,»»Gir9 ¥ HinOM 3HI
I oi < OIKJIIH, MOIIM TllllOAT,
mtOVMITIH, IN KMJF-N/A, iunl Hu*
V'IONTION Oil' <!ONHUMI*TION.
A. Tli# l.myiiH nr
ihkii ii nf v()l(i
It. Tliu 'IT n i ‘lii'ii m
Wltl()til|.i*',
() Tim Iti i Midi t ii I
Tiling of w Ulw-
tu'i'l ml
I>. Tln> of uim
of thn lung".
>
Kli
HU IT ICO I'OtC O tA> ANO YOUNU .
The Red Page
Fiction
W. Xu George can be depended upon. The
Making of an Englishmen and The Second
Blooming were original themes convincingly
worked out. But though The Strangers'
Wedding (Unwin, per Dymock’s Library)
is an extremely interesting and brilliant
novel, the author dodges the main issue,
simply because he will not allow his marriage
an ill-§orted pair to have any issue. Though
both parties are normal and healthy, W. L.
George refuses to let them have a baby.
All marriages are strangers’ marriages until
the kid arrives. The infant, as it were,
introduces husband and wife to each other .
and often they are amazed to tind that they
art' old friends. But such a commonplace
and satisfactory solution of the problem of
incompatibility is wjmtonly cast aside
simply because W. L. George, like so many
ither novelists dealing with this ancient sub-
ject. insists upon his moral.
There is another defect in this author s'
brilliant treatment of the man who marries
the wrong girl. Despite all his efforts,
\V. 1,. George cannot prevent us seeing that
the girl is the liner character, and the man
is a hopeless prig. Our sympathy goes out
to Sue: the story is really one of the girl
who married the wrong man. True, towards
the end of the novel the author has a glimpse
of the truth. He admits that Huneote was
a prig. "His parents had given him a first-
class education, and he never got over it.’
llunvote was of his period, “of a time when
men thought that artistic culture was the
root of refinement.” In accepting Huneote,
the washerwoman’s daughter really married
beneath her.
The book opens with a delightfully con-
vincing and detailed account of a youth s
feelings during a night out in Tmtulou. when
drink and girl get so hopelessly intermixed
in his tangled miud that everything looks
like a Futurist picture. The tally part of
that evening that lie clearly remembered was
sonn 'ue saying—it was in the cab with a
sirl he had* never seen before —“Shut your
mouth, dear. I set' your Christmas dinner.
From that night's emotions he rebounds into
a Settlement for saving slum > ails, but with-
out religion. Of course. Huneote had no
need to work —all these new have
£7OO a year and nothing to do. _So he
rakes up this lay Settlement, whose aim was
to “bring a gleam of sunshiue iuto the life
of the poor." Huneote has sufficient sense
of humor to see the ridiculous side of all
these pompous efforts to civilise the slums,
even without “converting” them; and the
author paints some delightful portraits.
Ksoeoially pleasant is his description of the
“Progress Anns.’’ the wowser pub estab-
lished by the Settlement. Here rh bumble
worker got hot cocoa, some of those Really
Good Books, including The Pleasures of
Lite, by I.nbbock, chess, and a barmaid who
murmured "How sad! in a refined _ and
resjiectahle manner. And the portrait of
The Fighting Parson, who saved souls by
slosh- s on the jaw. and had to keep on hit-
ting people because it was the only way they
uudersti I 'd to acquire salvation, is charming.
His philosophy sounds good. too. “Oh, I
know all that ; one gets sick, one thinks it's
no g-rd. and then.. . .well, yon have a pipe
mid an imperial pint, and go to a music-hall,
.and \ gin to set' there's something in the
Sermon <>n the Mount after all."
Sue. tin washerwoman's daughter, was
beautiful and sweet and desirable, and as
common as her mother. Sue would have
married the S* via list chap Bert but for
the one weak moment that he had. He
threatened to knock Huucote s and Sue s
head ■*T if he caught them “monkeying
round" —and didn't do it.
- I'. rt ulenched and rais-d his r>t a little.
Then he felt ashamed arc let it fail. Had
he but known it. in that minute she would
l ave been liis. if he had not let his fist tail,
hnt given h>r a s r,- lip and then kissed
■ wav her tears."
>
S, sue fed in love with Iluno te; and
th g'a she says things like "Oh. b>n t
mensh." and “Why this thu-ness?" Sue cer-
tainly s;- aks more naturally than the refined
Huneote with his cultured conversation.
Luckily. Sue didn’t understand a word of
it. And linn.of* was very young. So he
married her. ami then began th> long and
dreary process of educating her up to the
proud ' slfh.n of his wife. Sue really does
try; but her “breaks” art awful —tc Hun-
t-ore. pros bly t. W. I. Ge rge. but merely
pathetic- to a>. Australian reader. One can't
helj contra<ti: g the honesty «f Sue
with the empty viperiiv.o -s-v. -ultur- f Hun-
cote. And it > all rather unreal t » an
Australian reader. One has t keep remem-
bering that S.> London girl; tor no
Australian girl c >uhi have !ven > unadapt-
able. If Huneote had married an Aus-
tr;.li. r. git she would have stt -ri- him
with aB the signs >t a culture more intense
and n. re : rc. than his own. But Sue
had her class > pinions • t marriage, as
aptly voiced by her mother.
“But trot's the trouble? F don’t lift 'is
elbow? They all - m re or !e>v Un-
less they runs after other w-men. Une r
t’other, you've gvt the ysfiiiu. s "aetimes
it's both. And then you're lucky w'en you
don't get a clip on the ear... .That's the
wav men are. but yer can't do without era.
....I always says there s somethin about
a man makes a difference like in the
’ocse. So yon must pnt up with it. as they
says in the' marriage service. You give iti
a good old talkin' to now and then w'en
tou get 'irr. in bed and > wants to sleep;
that's the time. A man ain't ‘andly danger-
ous w'en > ain't got 'is trousers on: e can't
And it is the pndoct of this stock that
Huncote tries to educate up to poetry and
art, and chamber concerts, and the precise
business of giving: dinners and dressing with
taste. Instead of being content with a
charming, honest, beautiful girl who lotes
him, he forces his precious culture upon her.
sickens her of life, and inevitably loses her.
The only cheerful thing about the ending is
that Sue escapes the arid culture of Huu-
cote's useless class, and gets a chance to
develop on her own incomparably more
natural lines. But that is not the moral
that W. L. George would like us to draw
from this brilliant, humorous and interesting
study of Ixmdon life.
One turns from this typical example of
the long, diffuse and loosely -strung-together
modern English novel with a sense of
tic relief to the compact, lucid, logical and
severe art of the modern French
not elists. Recently there have appeared
translations of two typical b rench
novels. The Will to Live, by Henri Bordeaux
(Nash, per Dymoek's Library), and The
Night Cometh, by Paul Bourget ( Chatto and
Windus). In both these interesting works
there is a theme clearly outlined, a problem
rigidly constructed, and a solution logically
reached, without the intrusion of any ex-
traneous matter. Of the two the former is,
to the Australian reader, the less interesting,
because Bordeaux's theme is foreign to us.
since it deals with the solidarity of the
French family, rooted to one spot through
the generations, and possessing a communal
soul to whose dictates the individual mem-
bers must bow. The French definition of a
family cannot be conceived within the Com-
monwealth ; because we have no families.
To such a people tradition is not some-
thing which is dead: it is something acutely
alive; and the only happiness possible for a
member of such a family lies in consenting
to take his proper place in the chain of the
generations by which the future and the past
are linked. Bordeaux shows us such a
family—the inheritors of a tract of land,
added to by succeeding generations —honored
in its native town, and bound together by a
solidarity that seems eternal. But one son
threatens to break up 5 that family by his
infatuation for a married woman. This
passionate episode is treated with a sin-
cerity and an artistic restraint that will
come as a surprise to those who imagine
that a French novel is a book unfitted for
the reading of one’s grandmother. The
young man clears with the wife, but the
husband takes his revenge by accusing the
youth of having uot only stolen his wife but
a large sum of his money. This was taken
from his safe by his wife, to whom the
money morally belonged: but. by suppress-
ing this evidence, the husband is able, under
French law. to accuse the youth as the thief.
The family immediately rallies to his de-
fence; and when, a year later, the young
man. in Italy with the woman, hears of the
accusation, he immediately hurries home to
stand his trial and so to clear the honor of
the family.
His father, an old and honorable man.
convokes that curious family council that
figures so largely in French fiction : and the
solidarity of the family is seen never to have
been so secure as when its honor is threat-
ened and each member must make his or
her sacrifice for the common cause. "Hie
defence “f the son is difficult, since that
yonng man refuses to allow the name of his
mistress to be mentioned, else he will himself
plead guilty to the theft. His devotion to
the family does not interfere with his con-
ception of loyalty to his mistress. _ from
whom, however, he has already finally
broken. But in the end the old father him-
self pleads the cause of his son in court,
in a scene that is strangely dignified and
moving. And his defence is—what? Not
a plea for the youth, but a plea for the
family. He speaks with the voice of the
dead —of the generations that have gene
before and built up this family. He recites
the deeds by which the family rose to its
honorable position, and by the cumulative
evidence of their history convinces the jnry
that the sou of such a family could not be
a thief!
J*
Rather unfortunately, the inexpressive
title. The Night Cometh . has been eh sen for
the English translation of Paul R-urget's
Le Sen* de la Ifort. The novel is a minor mas-
terpiece. Technically it is constructed with
the rigorous simplicity of theme and the
directness of action that are to be found in
the French well-made play. There are. in
this novel, the same careful exclusion of
extraneous matter, the same close focussing
of interest upon a few. brilliantly illumin-
ated characters, and the same inevitable-
ness of the action of the drama, that moves
swiftly ro its logical dose, and yet keeps
the reader's attention to the final page.
The problem at the outset is stated
in clear, almost mathematical, terms, and
though its s ation. the question of the sur-
vival of the soul after death, is left un-
proven. the author compels his reader to
bring in the verdict. The weakness of the
book is the almost theatrical contrast in the
characters. Science has its mouthpiece in
the grim agnostic, the grest surgeon Ort£-
gue. and in his agnoetiesUy- brought-up wife.
Religion has its champion in the fine young
Roman Catholic officer, while the author's
pretence of impartiality is figured in the
character of the looker-on. Dr. Mansal.
Orttume's assise: rt at his Clinique in Paris.
At the outbreak of the war. Orteme trans-
formed his Clinic oe into a supplementary
war-hospical. Orn&gue. a middle-aged man.
had married a youthful wife. In August,
1!>14 he was suffering, as Marsal
gradually fouhd out, from a cancer that
must necessarily prove fatal. (Incidentally,
it might be presumed that the book is writ-
ten by a doctor, so convincing, to the ordi-
nary reader, is his employment of medical
terms.) ,
“This man so long superb and now pre-
maturely aged, looking in that way upon
this beautiful creature, his own possession,
in all the opulence of her I.6th year, and
this amid the surgical atmosphere of wait-
ing the arrival of the wounded from the
battlefield, hinted already a private drama
on the background of the national drama.
And the drama of the novel takes on an
added impressiveness by the skilful use that
the author makes of that sombre back-
ground. The scene is, technically, admir-
ably set.
The surgeon is contemptuous of the char-
acter of the Catholic officer. Ernest Le Gallic.
“That dreadful word War has been con-
strued in his brain, during the past few
days, into horrible visions, which he knows
to be real: shattered limbs, opened stomachs,
broken skulls... .cries, shrieks, death-sobs
death-rattles, and, as the culmination, the
charnel-house. Well, here's a fine fellow
who learns nothing from these abomina-
tions. He reasons from these facts no more
than if he had never encountered them. He
comes to talk to us of th£ kindliness of God!
He may be killed to-morrow, and at this
very minute in Europe there are millions
of young men like him, who throw them-
selves into this butchery, for nothing, because
an idiotic idea of conquest passed through
the brain of a degenerate, suffering from a
suppurative and incurable otitis. You see.
I explain this madness very simply by the
animal origin of man, by the reappearance
in civilised man of the primitive great an-
thropoid. But he is as firm as a rock in his
belief that an all-powerful and perfect
being, his God, presides over these mas-
sacres. He finds a meaning for them in the
justice and goodness of this God 1”
By the injection of morphia Ortegue is
able to keep at work, but when an especi-
ally difficult operation is necessary be re-
frains from the drug, and in the middle of
the job abjectly breaks down. His lifework
is over. Marsal then overhears a conversa-
tion between the surgeon and his wife.
Doomed to death, and uncertain of his
young wife's love for him. Ortbgue decides
to commit suicide. The young wife, as a
proof of her love for him. offers to die with
him.
It is this looming tragedy that Marsal
has to watch. And as the cancer and the
'drug work upon Ortbgue. the moral decom-
position of his being becomes painfully
evident. Then Le Gallic, of whom Ort&gne
had always been vaguely jealous—he and
Ortegue's wife had been child-lovers —arrives
from the Front with a bullet in his brain.
Ortegue ,-an still be ironical. His diagnosis
is clear. “Le Gallic, with a brain which has
never done any work, is in the best possible
condition. Hey! Suppose we made him
think, do yon believe that that would asto-
nish him?'
The truth is that Le Gallic loves Ortegne’s
wife, but in a fashion so honorable that he
never permits a word of his passion utter-
ance. But the devoted young wife, bavins
promised to die, finds that she dare not. Her
husband is now merely a wreck of his bril-
liant personality. Her k>ve for him had
reached saturation point. Marsal this
technical and brutal term to express accu-
rately the wife's incapability of experienc-
ing a fresh emotion for Ortegue. Marsal also
suggests that the telepathic power of Le
Gallic’s unspoken love for her was beginning
to influence her. It is all the same to the
observer whether we call that power tele-
pathy or prayer. So the end comes.
So, having, throughout the story, pre-
sented with scientific fairnes-s the two hypo-
theses of death, the author allows himself
to sum up. with a strong leaning in favor
of religion. Indeed, it becomes plain to
the reader only upon the last pages that this
is no scientine memoir, but a passionate
plea.
"Whether there is an et* rnal rupture or a
mysterious connection between the dead and
the livine: whether our present activity be-
comes exhausted, or whether it is continued
elsewhere.... - Let this prolongation exist,
and death assumes another significance; or.
rather, it has only significance if this pro-
longation exists. Otherwise it is but a ter-
mination, and what difference is there, apart
from pain, between one death and another?
All are equal to the one who is dying, since
they annihilate equally. This problem
we forget in the ordinary coarse of life. How
is it possible not to be obsessed by it to-
day. when a universal cataclysm, thi~ huge
long-drawn-out and terrible war. affirms it
e-ery day. every Loot? Has the shed-
ding of so much Wood a significance else-
where? Or is this world-conflict nothing but
a frenzied fit of collective delirium, the only
result of which will be the premature
entrance of innumerable <rganistns into the
cycle of ph> *: -o-cheanlcal decomposition and
recoil;po«.ri -ns ?“
And Paul Biirg-t contrasts his two
fc•'roes’ conception of death. To Ortegue.
i i-th is a catastrophic phenomenon, a com-
bination of an ambuscade and absurdity. To
Le Gallic it is a consummation, an accom-
plishment. for he recognises it as a sacrifice
for others. "Death has no significance if
it is merely an end; it has signifies nee if it
is a sacrifice. But sacrifice its-If must have
a Signifi- iie '- we can o tect
this significance very clearly in certain
eases : so h as those of a I *elai. <e ami a
Detour offering their lives in the trenches
for their country. The sum-total or these
cas-> or demotion constitutes th- army. It
saves the country —France... .And suppose
the sacrifice has no immediate r* suit'
Every day are s» t thwn as *missii*g'
wh. move killer themselves for their - r.>
rades and the latter have not known it have
lost perhaps m spite of this sacrifil
Nevertheless the saerifiee was made /
to have a significance there must, then, hav!
been, in the absence of human witnes.il
someone to receive it, a mind
registering the act which man makes'f
man when this act has no result ana „
man knows it.... Everything in „
against that.
Well, that is the finding of the anther
or perhaps we should say, the speech If
counsel for the defence.
Rime
“Don Emmar,” a “fair-dinknm” seeker
after information, wants respectfully to
know what is a rime.
In the recent “Anzac”. Sonnet contest, you co,, ntwl
out one piece for “the fatal rime ‘pres^fl— t
pressed.’ ” Why? In another number ''glare- Vnar^’
is declared no rime. Again, why? You freq U( ..J.
uppercut would-be contributors for bad rimes wS
you, sometimes, sarcastically quote. Some of them
are bad. but, in others. I see no fault — in fact 'L™
seem to be ahead of some yon publish. In B. 4 s’if
the following rimes adorn some of the verses-!
“pressed—interest” : “decree—hosiery” ; “stare—rare
—everywhere.” Are they good rimes? If *l, whv 9
Let's tnrn np the dictionaries. Rime is
“identity of sound between words of verse-
lines extending from the pnd to the last
fully accented vowel and not further." Or
rime is “the correspondence, in two or more
words or verses, of terminal sounds begin!
ning with an accented vowel, which must
be preceded by different consonant sounds,
or by a consonant in one case and none iii
the other.” Thus quality and frivolity
rime, owe and shot c rime, but tent and
deceit don’t. Expressed and pressed is ruled
out as a rime because the accented vowel
is preceded in both cases by the same con-
sonant sounds: there is identity of
sound extending right back to the
consonants before the accented vowel.
Yet the author of that rim* has a
loophole of escape: he might claim that the
accented vowel is preceded by different cod
sonant sounds, since the con' nant sound
in expressed is really “spressed.” and that
is a different sound tr "pressed.” Thus
screw and crew might be allowed as a pos-
sible rinie. But strictly su* h a rime is not
correct, though authority for such rim s,
and even obviously bad rim-', can be found
in the works of all our classic poets.
The trouble is that English is so deficient
in rimes that poets’ licenses had to be issued
to get over the difficulty: an: though there
is a movement for a referendum to close
down these p ets' licenses at six o’clock, it
does not seem likely to he carried. It would
throw too many honest working poets out
of a job. But a rime is usually judged by
the company it keeps: it depends much
upon the quality of th*» Terse in which it
appears. And. in so strict a form as a
sonnet, a rime upon whose morals the slight-
est imputation can be thrown should not
appear. And there is usually an easy
escape from the awkwardness f a doubtful
rime. The anthor of the sonnet n which
the express'd —pressed rime appeared sub-
sequently submitted a revised a in
which h<> had quite easily remedial that
fault without damaging the re*t f the land-
scape. The unpardonable lack of rimes in
English is responsible for the . r.vention of
a stress on an unaccented syllabi* in order
to achieve a rime, as in decree—fr '-iery. If
hosiery were habitually accented on the final
syllable, such a rime w*«u?d Iv* alii. So.
also, holders of poets’ iu-eLses. whether
closing at six or Bin*, are s- m :1~ ' allowed
to use “sight’’ rimes. «nch as hush and
brush, bough and though, which rime to the
eye bnt not to the ear. It should have been
obvious why glare and whare lo not r ate:
whare is a Maori word of two syllable?.
Presse-d — interest occurs in a topical time,
where anything might happen, mo re —ran
—ercrjncfcere is not * good rime, though it
is an old offender who makes frequent
apj»earanees in the best poetry. The final
sounds are only approximately the same.
Poetry does not cease‘to be go-i r
beeau~e it contains some bad rimes. If the
stuff is good enough of its ki- #. it will get
published so long as it does not obviously
offend the ear. and thus for-* tk te a ter i' l
think of the rim* and not of the poetry
If the poetry is fine en mi r the trr?e
witty enough, the reader will ::sdn<r.vely
make allowances for weak rir ing. H
overlook such slight faults in his apprecu-
ri u of the poetry.
>ot a word ai»ut *?«#“** — llkl
controversy is dead.


n
€
Sf.
21
No. 14.—Black Velvet Stitched Hat,
trimmed Band and Cabochon of Ribbon 12/4)
±52
No. 452.-—Black Velvet Hat 15/0
Xo. 1
Na 1
t
• —Felt Babette Hat, White, rtrowrt,
i’y, Wine and Moss i Jli.
s*
** m
25
Xo. 25.—White Bengaline Sports Hat.
lined Black or Color 0/0
FASHION & ECONOMY
■ ... COMBINE IN ...
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
12
22
No. 12.—'Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, hemstitched throughout., Yoke
effect with pin tucks, newest cuffs gauged
around wrist with frill overhand. S.W.,
M'„ O.S. 10/11 ; or in Black J 1/9
Extra Out Sizes, 1/- extra.
No. 22. — Shirt Blouse, of Ivory Crepe
do Chine, has box-pleat front effect, set-
in sleeves, double upright Collar, finished
Black Moire bow tie—
S.W., W., 0.5., 21/-; Extra 0.5., 22/0
w
\"r°o o
if \ a
2S
'
15
Xo. 10.—Black Pailette Silk
Blouse, hemstitched yoke and fronts,
fastening almost to the throat 13/11
O.S 14/11
Xo. 13. —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, extra heavy weight, buttons
to throat with Pearl Buttons, smartly-
rolled Collar, small sets of tucks back
and front, hemstitched throughout—
S.W., W., O.S 17/11
POSTAGE must be added to the Prices quoted.
N.S.W. Hats, 1 3; Blouses, 6d.
Other States— ~ 2/2; ~ Bd.
No. o 12. Felt .Hat, full Bind Velvet, trimmed
Band and ends of Black Ribbon Velvet 13/(1
fcttr-r-
O. 4225
No. G422:i.—Black Tagel Hat 4/11
257
No. 257.—81ack Velvet Hat !()/(»
- ‘-4T557'
No. 4357. —White Felt Hat, trimmed Band
Of Bibbon and Buckle 12/9
r. 409
No. PNI69. —Black Velvet Hat, Violet, Brown, or
Navy lined under Black 6/11
■ ■ -tsa
V
.
V
v»
r
4
V !
SOI
Xo. 901.—White Felt Hat
12/6
SBS
V
G 4 2 s<r>
No. G 4256. —Black Tagel Hat
6/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Factory Loaded
Shotgun Cartridges
“New
Rival”
If you want to fill
your game bag,
first fill your pock-
ets with Winches-
ter “New Rival”
factory loaded shot-
gun cartridges.
They have the speed,
pattern and penetration
essential for good shooting.
All dealers keep them in
the most popular loads.
Be sure to see that every
box you buy bears the big
THE GRAND PRIX, the highest honor,
was awarded Winchester Guns and
Ammunition at the Panama Exposition.
12
■*?
r/m
Wt
I
i
s
IS.
14
m
Trade Mark
11l
WM
'•■■• ■ ;■■.
■- ■■■: -~k;?7/£W£J rZ&iT
' : :&yr-7)
.&:*y&3k S2tllsk
i?/;:’ v &t3w
m
iff*.
*TtlI
SI9MI
111
Albert Spalding the World-Famed Violinist
—who proved by actual comparison that all his brilliant technique, all
the poetry of his interpretations, and all the rich tone of his priceless
violin are faithfully re-created on
The Edison Diamond
Disc Phonograph
Albert Spalding is only one of the many artists who have proved to
experts —by actual and direct comparison—that the Edison Diamond
Disc does re-create music; that the artist’s performance, and Edison’s
reproduction of that performance, cannot be distinguished, even by the
trained ear.
This means that, for the first time in history, the music-lover can enjoy
at w r ill the world’s finest music exactly as it was rendered.
Enquire about this wonderful new instrument. Write for illustrated
descriptive catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISOX, LTD., 3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity; Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
BBSS
■
'
LL
»
m
M
>•*»«
t*.
*».
8
m
W
THROUGHOUT-
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son uJ:
BourKe St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
STiEL, Sold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. _The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
1
C. S. INORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
“I certainly believe it was
Clements Tonic cheated death
from claiming me as a victim.”
“ I was pronounced incurable, and sent
home by those best able to judge.”
The following letter is remarkable for its earnestness in praise of this
wonderful Medicine, which does so much good to those who are run down
with debility of the system, and whose health appears seriously impaired.
Mrs. Craft’s case is well known in the Parramatta district (N.S.VN.I.
where she has lived for years, and the story of her long suffering is well
known and can easily be verified. How she suffered year after year, and
how she recovered through the use of Clements Tonic, is the talk of
Granville. Read the letter that follows, and if you are ill with debility, or
suffering with weak nerves and general weakness, try the magic of this
medicine, and give yourself a chance to recover good health. As it benefited
others, so it may benefit you.
Palmer House, Cooper Street,
Granville, N.S.V.,
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. 15/4/16.
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the afflicted if I
did not ask you to make known what Clements Tonic has done foi
me. It may be the means of directing others to health.
“It is ten years since I first got ill, and I had a five years' illness,
the greater part of which time I was not even able to walk about.
I was in four different hospitals, and was operated upon in one. 1
know the dread of the knife played havoc on my nervous constitution,
so that I was not only weak in body but weak in nerves.
“I was pronounced an incurable, and sent home by those
were best able to judge. Friends sat by my bedside at night-time
expecting to see the last of me, but I certainly believe that it was
Clements Tonic cheated death from claiming me as its victim,
have lived in the Parramatta district all my life, and it woulu
very easy to verify my statement. You may use this as you think. n .
Wit„ J HENRY GOUGH, J.r. “(Signed) ALICE CRAIT.
Date: April 19, 1916.
If you have Insomnia take Clements Tonic and sleep like a child.
If you have Constipation this medicine gives new stomach strength.
If you have Sick Headaches or Neuralgia it gives immediate relief.
Your home is not medically equipped without it. Get it to-day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is. only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s—all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
V.t
f mm
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidnevs and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief—every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
-3
Protect
Your
Throat!
It’s largely a matter of
care. Don’t leave it to
chance, be on your guard
against attack.
Wilson’s “Pino-Mentho”
Pastilles
are the surest protection you can get; you
can rely on them warding off Coughs and
Colds successfully. Keep them handy.
If you are unfortunate to have a cold,
Pino-Menthos will relieve you instantly.
They have a remarkable manner of getting
right at the root of the trouble.
Pleasing to the taste. 1/- per tin, of all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St., Sydney
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“ For Your Hair.”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
bottle of Rowland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
colour for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hat ton-garden, London, E.C,
For Baby
Every child is prone to ailments of the chest
and lungs, COUGHS, COLDS, WHOOPING
COUGH, etc. The wise mother will at once
fly to “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss,’’ the safest and
most RELIABLE household remedy. The
SAFEST for baby is—•
ington;
xzf
| CARRAGStf
Hijsoc ns.cot os IA
*1 “—*,
A....-
CEO Kts
'j&TzX'rrz
Avoid all
Imitations.
BONNINGTON’S
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Harulan, N.S.W-,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke ; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
are: you
Ru ptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
TJuTfyzxlleivri.
214 George Street, Sydney.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British (Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nocturne.
When the evening cool and dim
Leans against the window blind,
Many stronger fancies swim
In the current of the mind;
And a score of dreams will float
In the quavering candle-light,
Shining like a golden boat
Launched against the tide of Night;
Sombre tide which rolling brings,
With a ceaseless beat and beat,
Many half-remembered things
Washed like wreckage at the feet;
Wanton acts and careless words,
Red as sin and sharp as pain,
Winging down like carrion birds,
Feed upon the troubled brain.
Yet full many a tender time
Like a peal of bells will start,
Ringing with a silver chime
In the temple of the Heart.
So ’tis good to rest awhile
In this small secluded place,
And to feel a tender smile
Like a kiss upon the face —
Feel and know that, in the room,
Echo of a darling name
Lingers on the scented gloom,
Guided by the candle flame.
Far away across the land
There are eyes which flash and fill,
And a chin upon a hand
Rests above a window sill.
When Remorse all dark and drear
Like the tide of Night doth roll,
Many bitter thoughts will peer
Through the casement of the Soul.
Yet remains a glowing beam
In the inmost heart’s recess,
And our richest, rarest dream
Glows to Love and tenderness.
Comes a laugh within the throat!
Comes a freedom to the breath!
Flame of Love! O golden boat
Launched aginst the tide of Death!
MAOKLLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Explanation.
You thought you held my heart in your
hand,
For your fingers to fondle or bruise at will,
Nor dreamed it had slipped from your
strong command
To follow the piper over the hill.
Through sunlit grasses the piping led,
Amidst wild green thyme and the clover
sweet,
And my singing heart, to the music wed,
Was up and away with a gladsome beat.
Oh, never a thought of you crossed my
mind,
The hill lay beyond with its tossing trees;
What could you offer my soul to bind
When it tasted the salt of the sea in the
breeze?
Money and power and a sheltered life?
But the world and its longings lay over
the hill —
Men and women, their loves and strife—
And the piper had set my heart athrill.
Sometimes old memories swiftly throng,
And my eyes grow dim for the dear love’s
sake;
Then I tear my sadness to ribbons of
song—
Oh, the heart of a singer never can break!
N.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.
The Good Folk.
I want to be yours so much, so much —-
Want to nestle and kiss and cling,
Be a human woman, and joy as such
To crown you lover in everything.
But the Good Folk took me when I was
young,
They opened the world of dreams to me,
Taught me a word of the woodland tongue
And crossed my palm from their treasury.
So at times when you seem to hold me most,
And my pulses ache for a conquering hand,
I must slip from your fingers like a ghost
At the call of pipers from fairyland.
You may catch them napping some day, some
day—
May build a wall they cannot break
through,
The spell that has bound me to unsay,
And make me woman, and all for you!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Eggs and Bacon.
Soft falls the spangled curtain of the night;
A cold, keen breeze within the trees is
sobbing;
But through their shadows glows a ruddy
light
Where comfort, warmth and life and love
are throbbing
For me! I scent —oh, swiftly flies all care!
A smell of eggs and bacon in the air!
How sweet is winter, though the sword-like
wind
Bites till the flesh, as if with wounds, is
burning!
Shortly, its bitterness I’ll leave behind;
And ’tis a teacher just from whom I’m
learning
The joy of little things; who cares for care
When warm, sweet bacon scents the ev’ning
air?
I may be bankrupt in a week or so;
The rain for weeks may fall in cheerless
drizzle:
Shortly I may be dead, for all I know;
But on the fire there’s bacon all a-sizzle:
It matters not to him what clouds may
glower
Who takes the eggs and bacon of the hour!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


w
“The Best Tyre Proposition.”
Manufactured in Australia by
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
ALL STATES.
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The Jo]Jywe 11s
V.
oo
* % v -»
Carnival here —
Carnival there.
Dance Halls and Rials
Both have their share.
Dancers light,
The Jolly wells bright
Enjoy them selves
With all their might.
Then home at night
’Tis their delight
To munch "REX” GOODS.
They're made just right.
"Don’t Marry that
Young Man,”
advised the father. “He'll
never bring home . the
Bacon.” “Oh. Pa.” re-
plied the unsophisticated
one, “what do I care
about the Bacon, s<r long
as he brings home the
Bon-Bons!”
;=2s
Of course, the young man may not even be able to do that, but if he can
manage to bring home enough
“REX” Ham Pate
he and his bride “can make ado of it.” And who knows, as time goes on,
lie may be able to vary the menu with one or two other “Rex” Canned
Delicacies.
“REX” HAM PATE is both economical and nutritious. It is made from
“Rex” Ham —cooked perfectly en casserole, then minced tine and seasoned
with pure wholesome spices.
You can use it for Sandwiches in a score or more different wavs.
Spread it on thinly-buttered slices of bread, interlay with sliced
Tomato, Cucumber, fresh Lettuce Leaves, Olives, etc. It’s fine!
Sold by Grocers everywhere in handy-sized tins.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES include:
“Rex" Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, Ijlb. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce-
lain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
£
E
X
BRMtf
Temporarily out of Stock.
“Hex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Hex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Hex” Fundi Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Hex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
No. 304 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER I'ipe-Threading Machine? excel because of
iheir wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest door space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left. No.
304 A, threads S sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from to
lg-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT CSL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
in? machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, G P 0 . Melbourne, Vic.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[i
Thorne’s is a superlatively good
spirit, and immense reserves ensure
that its perfect quality will be always
maintained.
The carefully selected, high-grade
malts from which it is distilled
give it a distinctive flavor and
delightful bouquet.
Call for Thorne’s —and look lor
the “black square’ bottle.
THORNE’S
WHISHT
“Incomparable”
Old Highland Malt


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1895.
THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1916.
Price 6d.
ALMS.
THE OLD ’UN: “Pity a poor devil what yer honor’s put out of a job!"
THE KAISER: “Bah! I’m a poorer devil —I’ve got a son to keep going!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the White .Man.”
I’rinted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mo-man. for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED OXCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 (is. 6d. per annum you can hate The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Xumber, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., tchich should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents oj this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Xeicspaper Clippings. All communications
trill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin' trill return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin" desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —trill be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Xews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Xanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Xeus Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. If. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Xews Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City Xews Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Xews Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City Xews Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago, U.S.A.
Egtpt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Uoung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
llong Kong.
Ceylon. — lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a Xews-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Xorfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id. ; Bioz. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
HTuT&i'zHeifai.
THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1916.
THE CITIZEN, THE STATE AND THE
CEMETERY.
From a mound of letters, pars, yarns, verse
and assorted yelps all about the same thing.
The Bulletin takes a sample at random :
I am 25, weigh list., and am fit as a fiddle. I
support a wife, a child and my mother on 70s. per
week. 1 am buying a house of the £5O-deposit-
-255.-a-week basis, and have about £9O in it. In
spite of retrenchment and vegetarian diet, the high
cost of living has not allowed me to form a sinking
fund. We had £lO once, but the wife got ill.
Since then we have put the pass-book away. What
I want to know is:—-
(1) Can a wife and a child and a mother live on
a soldier’s 30s. per week and “allowances” ?
• (2) Hill that money pay the average bloke’s
honorable debts and provide for the rent of the
house he has sweated two years to hold?
f 3) Does Conscription mean that his equity in the
said property is to go—as per legal agreement —into
the already bulging pockets of a patriotic landlord,
or will the latter ouly charge him the usual 7 per
cent, on deferred instalments until he comes back
from the war? If he returns will those accumulated
liabilities be payable at once or will there be some
system of liquidation in keeping with the average
financial condition of the average discharged soldier?
In short, does Conscription mean that a man like
me must beggar himself, his wife and mother and
deprive his child of the advantages in dress, housing
and education he would be able to give it if he
remained at home?
There is a speeiousness about all this, sug-
gesting that the writer is more concerned
with putting posers in regard to detail
which has not been arranged than in getting
down to the roots of the subject. Still,
there is point in most of it. and the ques-
tions raised are such as the advocates of
compulsory service are bound to meet if
they would convert 25-year-old fathers who
are as fit as fiddles and are buying houses
on the time-payment system.
* * * *
The Bulletin has advocated compulsory
military service mainly because under that
system there can be national order, and
because it is more equitable than voluntary-
ism. The interests of the nation far trans-
cend those of the unit. In war nothing
matters except war. for the issues at stake
involve national life. In comparison with
this, personal considerations of safety and
comfort and family affection and all the
rest are. when the enemy arrives with an
axe, of as much importance to a community
as the state of Aunt Martha’s health. The
ease for compulsory service is based upon
a belief that no man has a moral right to
shed his brother’s blood in the cause of
liberty, but is under a strong obliga-
tion to spill his own if necessary; that
every citizen should share the risks as well
as the security of peace; that a nation
organised to defend itself on the foundation
of a citizenship which accepts a common
responsibility for defence will have a more
enduring patriotism, a higher conception of
citizenship and a better chance of saving its
bacon than one which has to rush round find
improvise an army by wagging flags, making
speeches and emitting loud yells about a duty
no one had recognised before.
* * * *
The ordinary risks of life are many.
Every citizen stands a fair chance each day
of picking up a microbe which will kill him
without stopping to consider whether he has
a wife and child and a cottage with a monkey
on it. The Germans didn't suspend pro-
ceedings in Belgium to inquire whether the
local population would go on getting its
salary as usual, and had enough in its
pocket to satisfy the landlord. They simply
arrived in large numbers and trampled the
Belgian citizen and his wife and children
in the mud. wolfed the cold meat in the
pantry and set the premises on fire. In part
of France they have been doing the same
thing, the only difference being that the
Belgian who had been thinking about his
wages and his humpy couldn’t hit back and
lost everything, while the Frenchmen rushed
out with a gun and knew how to use it. The
one had a conception of citizenship which
did not include the idea of personal service
in the national cause. The other had taken
the risk of war as one of the risks of life
and prepared for it; and because he did —
well, he is still a Frenchman with both
feet on the soil of France, and the British
Foreign Minister Grey, heretofore a volun-
taryist, has had to admit that “it is the
prowess of the armies of France that has
saved the Allies.” Suppose that while
the Huns were pouring through Belgium the
Frenchman with 70s. a week and a wife and
£9O paid on a house had remarked that he
was not going to do anything in the matter
until someone had arranged leave of absence
for him on full pay, and suppose other
Frenchmen had been bolting up and down
the boulevards telling everybody else that
they ought to get busy? The chapter would
have closed in a week. Suppose there was
an army streaming into Australia? How
many people would be talking of voluntary-
ism then, or of their 70s. a week? The
whole population would be leaping to arms,
and not finding any, and violently cursing
when they woke up to the truth that they
had been as blind as bats.
* * » *
It is not really against compulsory ser-
vice that the writer of the foregoing letter
is arguing. What he is against is sen-ice
except on certain terms. Xo sane advocate
of compulsory service wants to see men
dragged away from their homes and ruined
because they are defending their country.
This paper knows of no reason why, if a
country can prevent it, the man who fights
should afterwards be in any worse position
because of that fact than he was before, nor
why women and children whose bread-
winner dies for his country should suffer
the miseries of poverty. Nor. incidentally,
is it aware of airy moral reason why a
man who meets with an accident in the indus-
trial arena should be impoverished, or why
if he succumbs to illness his wife and bairns
should be left by society to scratch along
in any way they can. But this is not a
perfect world. When war starts the other
fellow is only concerned about blotting
someone out, and if that person has arrived
at the stage of demented futility repre-
sented by a frenzied anxiety about his job
and his mortgage, the enterprise is all the
easier. It is deplorable that it should be
so In a well-ordered world things would
be different. But the world has to be taken
as it is. and people must defend their
nationality as best they may, with the hope
that in doing this they are helping to solve
the social and economic problems they had
not worked out before. As things are. it is
hideous to think of society being so back-
ward in organisation and public spirit that
war should carry greater penalty, apart
from participation in battle, to those who
fight than to those who do not. That is
one of the results of past ignorance, of
greed and of imperfect social development.
But it would be still more horrible to
imagine that among the consequences of
all this there was an abasement of the
national spirit, for that would mean not
only physical defeat but a condition in
which ail ideals had perished. So far as
provision for soldiers is concerned, this
paper's view is that the nation should pro-
vide for them to the full extent of its
powers. The community has a right to
insist upon that being done, and the extent
to which this is realised will to some extent
be the measure of the civic conscience.
Meanwhile, for the man who objects to
defend his country because he has 70s.
a week and various other assets, there is
a point or two he might consider about
himself. His possessions are protected through
other men rushing between him and the
enemy. His peace and security are pur-
chased by their sacrifice. They threw up
their jobs; tens of thousands of them were
doing better than 70s. and had more than
one child. What right has he to ask them
to make this sacrifice? And what right has
he to hold on to what only they have saved?
The Bulletin has never imagined that
there is anything to admire about Con-
scription for its own sake, or that war is
anything but an abomination. But it
does believe that while the necessity for
defence exists everyone should share in it.
that no one has a right to shelter behind
his neighbor and that a claim to exemption
because the State has not evolved an ad-
vanced system of maintenance, reward and
protection is flagrantly dishonest. The issue
in the moment of trial and agony is not
between the individual and the political
enlightenment of his country; it is one of
national preservation or burial. And to
this paper the protection of Australia with
all its social imperfections and its abuses
and accumulations of folly is more import-
ant than the perpetuation of the unreliable
voluntary system which imperils those
things for the sake of giving someone a
chance to hang on to his job—alMays pro-
vided a sufficient number of other persons
decide not to hang on to theirs. The howls
of the young 705.-a-weeker on this point
have the same sound as the screams of the
ancient hundred-thousand-pounder when he
hears the knife of taxation being sharpened
on the grindstone. Both of them are incur-
able Private Enterprisers.
HOW WE DIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The 51st Irregulars sailed with soaring
ambitions and a high opinion of themselves.
This applies, of course, to every Expedi-
tionary- unit. We, however, had particular
cause for pride. Someone in authority had
spoken well of our embarkation. Our O.C.
told us so; and from then onwards we felt
that the Irregulars, like other historic regi-
ments, had a reputation to maintain. It
took some doing, when tackled in cold blood.
We were by way of being Field Artillerists,
and the best of our ofticers were Garrison
gunners who had never seen an 18-pounder
fired in their lives. We were cavalrymen,
and. barring the O.C. and some of the men,
none of us could ride. The sternest
upholders of the urgency of knowing “the
work" proved on being put to the test to be
as ignorant of horses and horsemanship as
the tamest clerk that ever rode to his city
job on a tram.
The O.C. was a “regular soldier.” You
could tell he was "a regular” by his bound-
less capacity for expletive. The gift is never
found in a developed form in the mere
militiaman. The adjutant was an experi-
enced infantryman. This may have explained
why Bliggs, the junior captain and an ex-
sergeant-major in the A.F.A.. commissioned
himself a kind of supernumerary adjutant,
and in that capacity exercised his voice to
good purpose on the bugler and other public
offenders. Peebles and Montmorency.
our junior subalterns, formed a mutual
commiseration society. They were unable to
understand why Senator Pearce had not
made them captains. When Peebles
remembered his knowledge of the rifle,
gained in three-weeks’ school at Mari-
byrnong. and when Montmorency recalled
that he had close on six months’ service, in
the militia to his credit, they agreed that
there could be only one explanation of their
humble status —political prejudice on the
part of the Government. They had other
points in common. Montmorency, on
little provocation, would bestride a camp-
stool and declaim a poem about “Daddy’s
Boy” and the family’s desire that the child
should grow up to be a man. Peebles
played the piano and sang. His costume
for the weekly concert was Solomonish in
its glory. Montmorency was reputed to
possess 11 uniforms. When he wanted the
salt at meals he did not ask one to pass it
in the blunt modern fashion. He used a
phrase which, rendered phonetically,
amounted to: "Moy trubble yu faw the
self?’’ He aimed, in brief, at being the
perfect gent. And then there was Byles,
the incredibly unsoldierly Byles, who knew
nothing of guard-mounting; who gave “fours
left” when he should have said “to the halt,
on the right, form line”; who had not
attended any musketry school; and who was
ignorant of the ceremonial to be observed
when burying a body at sea. Peebles, who
had spent a life of incident and adventure
in an up-countrv bank, constantly urged
Byles to try to become “a man of action.”
None of us realised the moth-like
impermanence of the Irregulars in those
days. Xo unit ever does till it gets to
Egypt. Our O.C. lectured industriously on
the peculiar duties of an Irregular Corps.
Peebles explained, at length, the mechanism
of the rifle. The doctor discoursed on most
medical subjects that affected such a unit
as ours, from care of the feet to the avoid-
ance of typhoid. The vet., deceived by the
fact that there were horses on board into
the belief that we were to have the use of
them on shore, pointed out the way to detect
strangles, greasy heels, wind galls and other
ailments. Xo one learned much from the
lectures: on the other hand they were good
soporifics. Our future was regarded as cut
and dried. The officers and non-coms,
selected their chargers. Estimates were
made of the number of guns that would be
allotted to us. There was an idea that,
being a picked corps. General Birdwood
would rush us into action almost immedi-
ately.
A vague feeling of surprised resentment
supervened when we found ourselves, the
morning after reaching Suez, in a collection
of wretched wooden sheds on the edge of the
desert outside Cairo, unheralded, not to say
unheeded. A gloomy suspicion arose, after
a week or so, that those at the head of
affairs were ignorant of our arrival. Xo
one came to us with rifles Tind guns and
waggons, or with harness for the gun-horses
and saddles and bridles for the chargers.
We were left with 400 horses, the halters
with which they had been towed on board
the transport, and our dying illusions. A
gleam of hope burst through the murk when
it became known that some official humorist
had called for our “marching-out states."
We had little or nothing to march out with
but what we stood up in. Still, excitement
and joy and a conviction that we were at
last off to the Front prevailed, until it
transpired that we were merely to move to
another camp.
A mournful interest attaches to that
march. It was the last time the original
Irregulars ever figured in public as a cavalry
arm. The programme for the day was read
out in Orders at the 9 a.m. parade. The
senior officers were to ride: the subalterns
were to march; the men were to lead the
horses. The column was to move off at
11 a.m., halting at midday for lunch. The
Kitchener touch was lacking somewhere,
though. We managed to get away by 1
p.m., but the lunch got mislaid, and wasn't
overtaken till three or thereabouts. By 4.30
there were still 12 miles to go. evening was
closing in. and a chill rain had begun to
fall. The unspeakable Byi.es drew niv
attention to the weather conditions. n‘„
mentioned his unwillingness to walk while
others rode, and announced that he had all
along intended to complete the march in a
gharry from the moment night fell. Yield
ing ashamedly to his offer of a seat. I f„ U nd
myself, presently, at the rear of the column
in a vehicle which contained four bottles of
beer, some sandwiches, a box of cigarettes
and Byles, who by means of a stick applied
to the driver’s back kept us in position on
the line of march.
It was close on midnight before we
arrived. The cold and pallid dawn dis-
closed a typical Egyptian scene. Around us
were stale-smelling dust-hills. In the middle
distance an irrigation canal studded with
the corpses of domestic animals. Further
on the brilliant green of a cultivation patch.
Further still the muddy expanse of the Nile
Behind, a quarry, an Arab graveyard, and
the eternal desert.
We began to disintegrate almost at once.
The first step took the form of a Head-
ouarters order to yield up the horses. A
day or so later we were handed 90 mules.
Hope blossomed again when the mules went
and a fresh lot of horses arrived. Then the
horses were taken, and were replaced, later,
by more mules. It became evident that the
Staff took us to be not so much a fighting
unit as a sort of military livery-stable. When
not watering, feeding or giving walking exer-
cise to the animals, in which we had long
ceased to be interested, we did foot-drill.
The Irregulars threatened to become in time
one of the most expert infantry units on
the cavalry side of the service.
But it was not to be. Bliggs was the
first to go. He called bis command together
and told the men, in a few well-chosen
shouts, that he had been summoned to more
responsible work. He then left, apparently
without a pang. Four or five non-coms and
some of the most efficient of the men fol-
lowed. Hartopp, kindest and best-liked of
captains, faded away next. Simultaneously
the reinforcements began to pour in. Their
ways were not our ways, nor was their dis-
cipline our discipline. On their bashed-in
caps, from which the wires had been torn,
were written the owners’ suburbs of origin
—as Carlton. Woolloomooloo, etc. Many of
them refrained from shaving. Others did
not wash. Our O.C. made spirited but fruit-
less efforts to check the inrush. It appeared
that we were not only a livery stable but
a soldiers' rest-house as well. At one time
we had more reinforcements than Irregulars,
and the quarter-master-sergeant, who was
instructed to provide food for them, talked
of getting legal advice as to his position.
Meanwhile the adjutant was removed to
hospital. He was understood to be suffering
from nerve-strain, the result of overwork in
connection with his attempts to get equip-
ment out of Ordnance. An uneasy day or
so passed, and then a Red Cross ambulance
was observed to be removing an enormous
pair of boots. Behind them lay Mont-
morency, stricken down with gastritis. That
afternoon 150 fresh reinforcements turned
up. Our O.C. was seldom in camp during
those last black days. But when he was—!
An amazing rumor began to spread that he
himself was to go. On the very day that
Divisional Headquarters demanded Bostock,
the senior subaltern, two sergeant-majors,
four sergeants, five corporals and 100 men.
the story was confirmed. Our colonel had
got a brigade and was off within a few
hours
* * * *
I came up one day to see the corps whose
brilliant embarkation had won official praise
a few months before. It still existed, but
in the sense only that the Brandenburgers
existed after Yaux. or the 9th Lancers after
Mons. All the bizarre figures that had given
it life and color were gone. Walking down
the lines I recognised hardly a man. though
on the transport I had known them all. It
was like visiting a cemetery. And. indeed,
that is what all such places are by the time
the Staff has done sifting and rearranging
things—the burial places of a thousand
ridiculous vanities and splendid dreams.
J. B. D.
THE MENACE OF THE REARWARD
GOAT-TRACK.
When I.eonidas and his little band of
Snartan berserkers stood between the moun-
tains and the sea to resist the onrush of the
huge invading army of Xerxes, the goat-
traek at the rear was defended by the
Phocians. Everything seemed all right
from a military point of view. Xerxes must
get past Leonidas before he could get to
Thebes. Athens or Sparta; and Leonidas
with a spear in his hand wasn't the sort of
proposition anything in Asia was enthusias-
tic to face. lie seemed like a whole row of
British Dreadnoughts in himself: and in a
place where only a dozen of the enemy could
get at him at a time, he looked like holding
back the foe for several years. As for the
goat-track, anybody could hold that. The
defenders had only to roll down a few rocks
and all was well. But the enemy came up
the goat-track when least expected, the
Phocians didn't put up enough t°
terrify a rabbit: and I.eonidas and his oOU
were taken in the rear and massacred. The
game of war is full of chances and surprises,
and no. military assurance that any position
is absolutely safe can be taken without reser-
vation. As the safetv of Australia is a very
vital matter to Arthur Jones, of Colling-
wood. and Mart Borin son. of Bathurst, it
seems a fair thing to ask how much beyond
the bounds of possibility it is that the Ger-
mans might hit us here in spite of all the
precautions that have been taken 10.000
miles away.
* • * *
The general notion that Leonidas Jelli-
coe with his mighty fleet has blocked the
sea to German ships seems just as sound as
it was before last week's battle. Still, the
German has proved himself a very ingenious
person; and the world is such a wide pH ce
that the chances of an unguarded or insuffici-
ently-guarded goat-track are not so verj
remote. Only the other day a raider was
loose in the Atlantic. Exactly how it became
loose no one can say with certainty, but the
evidences are that it found a goat-track and


slipped out. There are a very great number
of Germans and people with German sym-
pathies abroad in neutral countries; ar.d
there are an immense number of insignificant
neutral ports where ships bought by Ger-
many might be secretly fitted out for raiding
purposes. An expedition against Australia
is not therefore tlie utterly impossible thing
that some would have us suppose. It is
quite true that no undertaking on a scale
large enough to have permanent success could
be dreamt of; but the course of the war has
shown that Germans are capable of taking
tremendous risks, and that even one piratical
armed cruiser can work endless pain and
mischief before it is brought to book. More
than this, the steady progress of disillusion-
ment with regard to the war and the sur-
prising turns which things have taken should
make us prepared for any eventuality. No
patriotic person in any great conflict is pre-
pared to look for defeat. In a struggle like the
present, where we feel the righteousness of
our cause and have unbounded confidence in
the "OOd faith of our Allies, we look for only
one result, however gradual it may be iii
attainment. At the same time, only a very
foolish person in pressing on towards victory
would neglect those ordinary precautions
which in the event of a sudden turn of for-
tune might prevent defeat being final and
absolute. Yet this is just what Australia is
doing. No armed German may ever again
set eves on Australia. The security in which
we live may remain forever unbroken. But,
as neople who are not altogether lost in
fatuity, we ought to be prepared for the
worst that could possibly happen.
In order to press the war with the utmost
vigor our defence arrangements have been
to a large extent set on one side. Our
citizen armies are no longer being trained ;
and tlie date at which that training was
to be started again lias from time to time
been postponed. Our position against even
a weak invasion, such as might be con-
ducted by German desperadoes organised
out of Germany, and looking for tlie sup-
port of Germans within Australia, is not
one to fill us witli supreme confidence. Some
reserve of strength we should still possess.
There ought to be at least a solid body of
effective defenders —older men who could
be mobilised at an hour’s notice. Soldiers
are not made in a day, and munitions are
more tedious in preparation than mutton
chops. A general reliance upon the enthu-
siastic rising of the people armed with the
household meatchopper or the garden shears,
which seemed satisfacory enough as a last
resort in the days of our grandfathers, is
no longer to be thought of. Tlie plain fact
stands that we may yet have to face Ger-
mans or their Allies and abettors on our
own soil, and if Ministers neglect the busi-
ness of defence they are taking risks which
they have no right to take.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Hun Pulls Up His Anchors for a
Change.
At the moment of writing there are still
many holes in the story of last week’s naval
fight; but the broad general results seem
plain enough, and it is no use either exag-
gerating or minimising any of them. A
German reconnaissance fleet was encountered
by Admiral Beatty’s cruisers. The latter
engaged the enemy and got between him and
his base; but before the battleships under
Jellicoe could arrive on the scene, the Ger-
man leviathans turned up and, pushing
Beatty aside, badly mauled the British fleet
until the opposing reinforcements closed
in. Then the German broke off the engage-
ment and scuttled back to safety. The
losses on both sides were heavy. The Ger-
man claims to have suffered the less, and
there seems to he truth in this, for he had
the advantage in weight of metal and gun-
fire. But naturally he did not tarry for the
full British punch: he cleared out. the
British warships held command of the water
and—there were triumphant celebrations of
victory in Berlin. Yet there was no vic-
tory—no change in the relative strength of
the rival navies, nor any indication that
the Hun is prepared to put the existence of
his navy to the test of decisive battle. What
there are indications of —and these can be
fgund in the enemy’s trip to sea. his aban-
donment of the battle, and his extravagant
rejoicings—are that he was in search of
something to rejoice about, that he planned
it with skill and foresight, and that he got
it. Verdun has been a sore disappointment
to the German. He counted on victory
there, and so far. after over three months’
stupendous effort, he has accumulated
nothing but corpse. For the encourage-
ment of the nation and to impress neutrals,
it is more than probable that the German
sent his ships to sea in a force sufficiently
great to account for any cruising fleet that
might be met before the other side could
spring in and equalise matters. That he
delivered a heavy punch is not to be denied.
That he got one himself and saw he was
going to get some more if he stayed any
longer is certain. If it were not for the
pressing necessity of distracting attention
from Verdun, the chances of the German
even venturing as far from his harbors as lie
did last week is extremely remote. Even if
the claims from Berlin regarding the naval
engagement be conceded and the British
official point of view heavily discounted —-and
there is no need to do either of these things
in order to get the incident in reasonable
perspective—there is no justification for sup-
posing that the German is any more able
to-day than he was two years ago to count
upon winning this war anywhere except on
land. But that last week’s fight may encour-
age him to greater maritime activity in
future is not at all improbable.
The Dignity of a Disunited Australia.
Costs, Esq., is going to get another big meal
directly—this time over the struggle to settle
whether Bananaland has power to continue
the embargo placed on the passage of stock
across the border into other States. The
judgment of the High Court regarding N. S.
Wales wheat established the right of a State
to prevent inter-State trade in a commodity
it had seized in the exercise of sovereign
power. In the pig case it was found that,
as the Holman Government had not acquired
the pig, it had no authority to stop the ani-
mal from making a journey into Bananaland
to become bacon. With respect to the
Bananaland bullock and cow, the point to
be now determined seems, from what was said
by Garran to a deputation at Melbourne the
other day, to be whether the State Govern-
ment has the legal right to say it would
acquire any stock that an attempt was being
made to remove across the border. Incident-
ally, there is confusion about the significance
of some understanding or allegation that the
whole of the meat supply in the State is
being held by Bananaland on behalf of the
Imperial Government. If Holman had
been able to produce an argument that he
was custodian of the N. S. Wales pork for
Li.oyu George, it appears to be within the
region of possibility that he could have kept
Bananaland from having ham for breakfast.
Pending a settlement of what Bananaland
can and cannot, do with its menagerie, the
position Australia is in over this business is
humiliating. If a State can say to the owner
of a bullock, as Bananaland is remarking,
“Before that animal changes its address you
must pay 10s. and enter into an undertaking
to return it in six months,” the chaos made
by the wheat judgment will be intensified.
Inter-State export duties on one thing will
be followed by the invention of schemes for
putting them on others, and the privilege of
having seven Parliaments, the duplication of
taxes and vast expenditure, with govern-
mental machinery that is already one of the
wonders of the earth, will be realised to the
full. The position of a country in which
multitudinous Ministries are rushing round
squabbling over wheat and pigs and cows is
a mockery of what Australia bargained for;
but as the Federal Government is appar-
ently obsessed by the notion that its mission
on earth is to clamor about the unity of
Empire, the disunity of Australia is natur-
ally a mere trifle.
Conscription and Militarism.
“Feng-shui” : The argument of the anti-
conscriptionist that national service neces-
sarily means militarism won’t bear scrutiny.
The Assyrians, the Persians, the Cartha-
ginians and all those people who, declining
national service, paid mercenaries to do
their fighting for them, eventually became
tlie helpless victims of their own monsters.
The history of the Romans, a people who
would neither fight nor work, is mainly the
history of rival voluntary factions scrapping
for the spoils while the people, w T ho had
turned down national service, looked im-
potently on and gathered up the fragments.
The present writer had the privilege recently
of watching voluntaryism in China, which
had also refused to have anything to do with
national service. Indeed, there the soldier
is theoretically of lower caste than the gar-
den-coolie l r et, in spite of that, he actually
holds, and always has held, the key of the
political situation. In the late rebellion the
military operations instituted by the Central
Government consisted of setting one volun-
tary general to catch another. The loyalist
general Chang Hsun, having expended
three months, much heavy ammunition and
a negligible number of lives in turning the
rebels out of Nanking, demanded SOO,OOO
taels from a grateful Government as the
price of handing over the looted city to Feng
Kio-Ciiang, another General a little less
dubious in his loyalty than Ciiang Hsun.
The soldiers of both Generals, and the rebel
army they displaced, pillaged, raped, mur-
dered and looted their fellow countrymen
and women with perfect impartiality, until
the country starved, the dogs ate the dead,
and the living ate the dogs.
♦
A Legal Snake in the Military Grass.
An admirable military rule lays it down
that the recruits on board departing trans-
ports shall be lectured on the duties and
dangers which lie before them. They are
told all about the perils of the Wazza Bazaar
in Cairo, the way to cure strangles in
horses, and the best method of dealing with
corns and swollen feet. But no one ever
seems to weigh in with a word of warning
about the Army Act. Yet to the free-and-
easy, cocksure young Australian, this Act is
among the greatest dangers of warfare. If
he is an ex-citizen soldier he knows some-
thing about his own Defence Act—enough,
at least, to understand that it is impotent to
harm him unless he is guilty of what any
civilian would regard as a crime. The Army
Act is different altogether. And the tragedy
is that many youngsters don’t know it till
it is too late. Private Brown is at work
building showers. Captain Smith sees him
and says casually to Sergeant Jones : “Tell
Brown to clean up the lines in front of his
tent at once. They look rotten.” .Tones
gives the order and passes on. On the Back-
blocks station which he left to enlist Brown
was accustomed to such commands. As
regards the interpretation of a phrase like
“at once” he used his own discretion. It
might be that no one would protest if he
took it to mean the following day. Not so
in his new profession. Captain Smith comes
along an hour later and finds him still
absorbed at his job on the showers. It is
not for Smith to address Brown. Jones
is sent for and escapes the unpleasantness
of arrest by stating that lie gave Smith’s
message as ordered. Brown is arrested and
charged with fracturing Section 9 Sub-sec-
tion 2 of the Army Act, the penalty for
which is “penal servitude or such less pun-
ishment as is in this Act mentioned.”
Brown, who is possibly a law-abiding and
well-meaning patriot, thus finds himself
liable to be made into a convict for an
offence which at home would have been no
offence. The Act is full of such pitfalls, for
the officer as well as for the soldier. As an
instance of the disastrous way in which the
officer may fall in, a trooper on a recent
transport refused contumeliously to work
coal, though there was a snortage of stokers
and several goou reasons why the trU should
not be prolonged. He was put under arrest
and informed incidentally that the crime for
which he. was committed to be tried by
court-martial carried with it the death
penalty. He received the terrifying news
with the pleased smile of the bush lawyer
who has a legal joker or two up his sleeve.
This man happened to know that under the
King’s Regulations there is no obligation
on soldiers to go into the stokehold. He
was able, because his officer lacked this in-
formation, to lead a life of leisure for some
months, to sow a good deal of dissension
amongst his comrades, and to get a trium-
phant acquittal when his case came on for
trial. A knowledge of the general principles
of the Army Act is essential for the social
and physical safety of most Australians who
fail to understand the tremendous change of
conduct and outlook which is required of
men on active service—as essential in its
way as instruction in the arts of building
trenches and taking cover from snipers. Yet
not one C.O. in 20 thinks of making any
remarks at all on the subject.
Home Rule at Last.
It seems as if the result of the recent
trouble in Ireland will be the speedy estab-
lishment of a sort of double-barrelled Home
Rule. Greatly as the Dublin slaughter
must be deplored, the official inquiry into
its causes goes to show that the chief
offender in the whole ghastly business was
the British Government; and that of course
strengthens the case for placing local con-
trol in the hands of Irishmen who under-
stand the situation and the aims and temper
of their countrymen. The partition of the
island is a temporary expedient and is per-
haps the best way out of the difficulty
created by Carson and his noisy followers.
The Parliament meeting in Dublin will be
one in national feeling; that meeting in
Belfast, or somewhere in the North, will
probably have from the start a majority in
favor of Irish union. In the British Par-
liament the representatives of Ulster are
almost evenly divided on the Home Rule
question ; and as time goes on and the main
Irish Parliament shows its ability and its
zeal for the public good, it is almost in-
evitable that the following of the Carson-
ite faction must more and more diminish.
Unless there is some time limit actually
fixed to the partition arrangement, it is
certain that within a few years, perhaps
months, a Bill will be introduced into the
Ulster Parliament for Irish union; and
sooner or later that Bill will be carried.
Belfast is a big city, but in proportion to
population it is poorer and less progressive
than several other Irish towns. The cramp-
ing conservatism of the Orange sections
will be felt bitterly in the northern pro-
vince; and the sight of the progressive
South workimr towards national goals will
soon undermine the enthusiasm for khe
foolish “no surrender” yell of those whose
pride it has been to shout to the world that
they are incapable of governing themselves.
On the whole, the indications are that Irish
self-government is going to begin, that it
is likely to stay, and that the killing in
Dublin, both official and otherwise, has not
been in vain. How many thousands of Irish-
men in the last two centuries would have
been ready to face the firing squad to bring
national hopes as near to fruition as they
are at this moment!
The Protection of Foreign Trade.
Subdued wails for the foreign frying-pan
continue to emerge from the office of Sydney
Telegraph, and the other day there came
a squeak that if .John Bull and Co. took
the risk of depending upon Empire produc-
tion “many industries would be wiped out.
Of course no detail was given, but it would
be a fair thing for a journal in this agi-
tated condition to explain what these indus-
tries are and the why and wherefore of
their dependence upon the foreigner. So
far as Australia is concerned all the moan-
ing about industries that will perish if we
knock off getting from outsiders things that
can be produced on the premises is twaddle.
The question for this country to consider
is not what industries will be wiped out
by excluding foreign goods, but what indus-
tries have already been prevented from com-
ing into existence through the demented
policy of buying from somebody else. An
industry that cannot be found because it
has no address and is not known to be
employing anyone is in no danger of being
wiped off the map. It has never been there.
Possibly the argument that if Australia
started to make its own gridiron there would
be a decline in the industry of lifting it out
of a ship may appeal to the disciples of
Cobdenism as a calamity to be averted, but
to people of plain commonsense tlie dis-
aster looks capable of exaggeration. There
would still be as much weight-lifting to be
done under the new regime as under the
old, the only difference being that the
implements would have to be extracted
from a factory and not from a ship. Instead
of putting up their cock-and-bull yarns
about industries that will be wiped out,
why don’t these quaking Cobdenites tell us
about the manufactures that have already
been stamped flat? The crux of the busi-
ness is whether Australian industry shall
be given life. Dismal warnings not to call
it into being because it will interfere with
industry which is not Australian are equi-
valent to exhortations to continue to be a
doormat for Foreign Commerce. And that
means getting picked up some day and
thrown on the garbage tip. It nearly hap-
pened. Who wants to risk it again?
The Craze for Imported Information.
It seems about time a trade Commissioner
was sent from Sydney to South Australia
with a full staff and ample allowances.
Much information which the State of X. S.
Wales shows a burning and expensive desire
to possess is to be obtained just across the
border; in fact, some of it could be obtained
in the west of the State itself. Nielsen
spent his early days on the American conti-
nent investigating dry farming, while the
home of the whole business was in the Com-
monwealth. Instead of our learning from the
United States how to make wheat grow in
the desert, the United States had been learn-
ing from us on the subject; but the reports
came duly to hand, and the foreign coals
seemed to be-much appreciated in the Minis-
terial Newcastle.. Now Nielsen has sent
along another slab of information about the
culture of the date palm in the land of beefy
jungles. Had such matter been gathered
in Arabia, or some country where the date is
at home, it might at least have contained
something which was not general knowledge ;
but to compile the story of American experi-
ments in a field -which has been pretty thor-
oughly .investigated by past South Australian
Governments looks as if it were hardly worth
while. Date palms are already growing in
this State as well as across the western
fence, and their possibilities have been pretty
thoroughly tested. Of course, Neilsen has
to show cause every now and again, and he
must make a report about something; but it
would pay X’. S. Wales just as well to request
him to confine his attention to Toltec archi-
tectural remains and investigate the sources
of Aztec religion. If, however, he feels
that he must keep on the track of South Aus-
tralian progress, why not shift him, staff and
all, to Oodnadatta or some bright spot in the
dry State, where he can pile up information
by the ream? Such a scheme would at least
have the advantage of keeping the money in
the family; and a State like N. S. Wales
with cash to burn needn’t worry about a
trifle for food and clothing going to S. Aus.
in return for fresh light on the habits of the
camel or the moral conduct of telegraph
wires on a waterless stage.
The Courage and the Cowardice of
Maoriland.
Maoriland Parliament appears to have
accepted the Conscription Bill, and judging
by the news cabled to Australia the measure
is certain to pass. Apart from being an
indication that the Dominion’s experi-
ence with voluntaryism has been no different
from that of any other country, the passage
of this Bill will be an interesting historical
incident. It has naturally been preceded
by the usual shuffling among the politicians,
but even for them—generally a spineless
crew 7 —the logic of facts has proved too
strong. This paper, which has for years in-
sisted that a national defence resting on the
flag-flap and yell would in the hour of trial
prove unjust and inadequate, is, of course,
glad to notice what the Dominion is doing.
But the gladness is modified by contempla-
tion of the country’s shameless financial
operations. Maoriland has always been a
profligate, but since the war broke out she
lias gone from bad to worse. Through the
war her earnings have been enormously in-
creased, but in spite of this she has held out
her hand to John Bull for half a million a
month, and is doing it still. The Massey-
Ward combination defends this with a rig-
marole to the effect that, by rifling the
harassed old man’s pocket now 7 while the war
is on, the local financial situation will be
stronger when the war is over. But there is
nc escape from this—the Maorilander is get-
ting an increased price from J. Bull for
goods, and, in addition, copious advances to
spend in fighting for his own liberty. The
shabbiness of it is so unspeakable that any
patriotic pride her people may feel in the
gallant exnloits of her army must be heavily
diseounted by shame at the pandering of
their Parliament to the greed of those whose
pockets are being lined with gold w r hile the
young Maorilander is being loaded with debt
and handed a gun.
The Peace Proposals.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A suggestion that peace might be obtained by
moral force was cheered in the House of Commons.
Hark ! The herald angels sing !
Peace on earth, good will to men !
Europe’s meadows kiss the spring;
Valiant fingers grip the pen.
Blood enough the guns have shed;
Death with death is overfed.
“Let the slaughter end,” men cry,
“Give the moral forces room !
For a word the peoples die ;
Pride of folly gluts the tomb.
Peace is kind, her hour is come —
Spike the guns and break the drum.”
Peace is kind. We love her well.
Glad we were that all should end.
War has made the world a hell.
Who desires to slay and rend?
Yet of white-robed Peace we ask
What the guerdon of our task.
All unbroken stands the foe —
Him we dare not meet in trust —
Brave his battle, large, his show ;
We but war because we must.
Shall we turn a smiling face
Thus to own a world’s disgrace?
Iluin, written large and plain,
Stares across the wasted lands;
Dare we pause to place again
Faith and honor in his hands?
Dare we yield, through life and time
We were partners in his crime.
Better perish one by one
For the truth we. hold as dear
Than the battle-testing shun
In the shadow of his fear;
Death is death ( but life were shame
If his guns should make us tame.
Give'the moral forces room!
They have none while he remains.
In the bitter cannon’s boom
Let him count his haggard gains,
Let him know that death alone
For his falsehood may atone.
Long the strife, but his the sin.
If the truth be worth a blow
In the end our arms shall win,
Crush his strength and lay him lo\y.
If we fail what need of breath?
Better that we yield to death!
Hark! The herald angels sing!
Not for peace their voices rise;
But, with harpings on the wing,
Loud they call for sacrifice.
Peace.—the happier peace—shall come
When the traitor land is dumb!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


GAELIC WHISKY
THE old SMUGGLER
fcrv Ike. !j!;|
ar*. cw if 1
Nort-
Qtf»
ffli
I'to
Refill
bottle
■' -
B
T
i ’€
GAELIC
The Perfect Wh isky
. . . in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
INSURE WITH
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
Head Office: Corner Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 11.3 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, Vquaver.
Newman’s
“Better
than Either”
A Worcester Sauce of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
An Australian Triumph. Ciet a B:>ttle from the (irocer.
While the warships were arguing a point
out in the North Sea last week the Hun
armies livened up in Flanders and Verdun;
but if there was a triple victory looked for,
or something that could be twisted into
one for flag-wag purposes, it didn’t come
off. The German was blocked by the reli-
able old curtain of fire outside Verdun, and
after lie bad penetrated the front trenches
of fi British position over a two-mile front
he was chased out by a counter attack.
Whether having announced to the populace
that they have had a conquering victory at
sea the Kaiser will reckon the time now
ripe to sheer off from Verdun remajns to
be seen, just as it has yet to be found out
how be will explain the continued absence
of cargo from German ports after trumpet-
ing a glorious victory over the blockading
navy. Tlie season is now so well advanced
that greater intensity can be looked for in
the fighting at quite a lot of places.
Apparently the Russian Front is becoming
more active, and violent battles are being
waged between the Austrian and Italian,
in which the Italian is stated to be now
bolding bis own. Salonica remains a
mystery, and from Mesopotamia the news
is as scrappy and uninformative as from
elsewhere. In the course of a few weeks
the xvar will be entering upon the third
year of its long-drawn-out exisence, and
apparently the only forecast about its dura-
tion worth tuppence is that the end is two
years nearer than it was on the day the
horror burst out.
“Nomis” : It is safe to wager that if there
are many more turnings-down of sitting
Laborites like Edden, of Kahibah
(N.S.W.) , the. end of the whole selection-
pledge business will be speedily brought
about. As the average number of votes in
fi Libor league is about 200. compared with
10,000 in the eleotor;ite itself, there is obvi-
ous danger in pledging oneself to a possibly
hostile decision of tlie 200. when a friendly
vote could be relied upon, at the hands of
the 10,000. The selectors should be selected
themselves. Apart from the chance of a
really good man being turned down, there
stands the record of the past, various men
who were temperamentally and mentally
unfitted having been kept in Parliament on
both sides of the House when they would
have been better placed in an inebriates’
home.
Australian daily papers a few months
ago talked portentously about the unrest in
Fiji and a threatened uprising of tin- native
population. The head Find front, also the
hindquarters and the equator, of the move-
ment was said to lie the Viti Company,
which had been started with a tremendous
bang to collar the whole trade of the island.
The vague talk couldn’t be audited; but
the accounts of tlie tremendous Yiti Com-
pany can. and tlie result is disastrous for
the respectable old sensation-mongers. The
total paid-up capital of the company or
plot or silent revolution or whatever it was
turns out to be £lOOB. The promoters
haven’t been paid yet, and as there isn't
enough money to do it with, and as inost
of the people who applied for shares won’t
pay up calls, the poor little cracker is a
squib, and the wreck of it is being thrown
into the ashbin. One day last month a
meeting was held, and it was decided to
wind up, “in view of tlie fact that Fijian
subscribers to the extent of almost four-
fifths of the subscribed capital have failed
to pay calls.”
The Australian War Contingent Associa-
tion. 59 Palace-street, London, wants Aus-
tralian papers, particularly weeklies. Tlie
men at the Front are again very hungry
for these things, the secretary writes to say.
Died at Camberwell (Vic.) in bis 59th
year, Major Patrick Moloney, one of the
soundest bulwarks of Vic.’s Education
Department. Most of bis work was done
at the Camberwell school, and many a high
climber had his foot placed on the first
rung by Moloney, whose record for scholar-
ships was phenomenal. lie was a keen
advocate of compulsory military service, and
his six feet of energy made an enviable
feature of cadet parades.
An alleged rape case, which made a great
stir in Adelaide a few weeks ago, has
reached what should be its final stage. On
a petition for free pardon, signed by nearly
Fill Adelaide, the sentence has been reduced,
on the advice of Chief Justice Murray, who
tried the case, from four years (the legal
minimum) to two. The Register, which
pushed the protest, still claims that it is a
cFise of four years or nothing; but, unfor-
tunately, there is no Court of Criminal Ap-
peal for such things. So it will go down to
the text-books as the only instance of rape
in which the outraged victim afterwards
cheerfully walked home with the brutal rav-
isher, stopped nu the way to help him buy
fruit, kissed him at parting, and made an
appointment to meet him again.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love ’
Criterion “It Pays to Advertise
Palace “Peg o’My Heart
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plajs
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Wirths’ New Hippodrome “Kultur
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “So Long, Letty
Royal “On Trial
King’s “Just a Girl
Princess's “Cnder Two Flags”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli M( I no. -h's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciariem Ice Skating
Why does everybody eat hens’ eggs ?—Because every
time a hen lays "an egg she advertises the fact.
Why do we go to the theatre and not to the
church? —Because the theatre advertises.
Why do we go to American plays?—Because
J.0.W., Ltd., advertises them.
Why does J.CAV., Ltd., go to America for plays?
—Because Americans are the greatest caeklers on the
globe. .
of these queries were put and answered
on the sta,ge of the Sydney Criterion on
Saturday evening, when “It Pays to Adver-
tise” was first produced in Sydney; some of
them were merely asked and answered in
the audience. This farce by two American
authors has the usual American hero, the
Dollar, and the dollar-bill is beginning to get
frayed at its edges and baggy at its knees
through overwork in Yankee farces. The
son of the Soap Kaiser is thrown out of his
father’s house in order that he may be
stimulated to do some work. But the son
knows better: he decides to become an
American business man. His scheme is to
advertise a soap so that his father will have
to buy him out —as is the way of all Soap-
Monopolists in America. It never occurs to
this young Crown Prince of Soap to make
soap. That would be foreign to all the tradi-
tions of the American business-man. Thanks
to the advertising talent of his friend
Ambrose Peale the scheme succeeds;
but just in time the Soap Kaiser
discovers the bluff, and, for one salu-
tary, serious moment in tlie farce, the
old man gives his son a talking to, ex-
posing him as a thief and a fraud. This
amazing outbreak of truth is the most hope-
ful thing yet seen- in the American business
play. Hitherto the audiences have been
hypnotised by the hurried and humorous
“business” of the American farce into the
belief that these bright young business men.
by borrowing and manipulating tlie dollar,
are actually making money, instead of merely
borrowing or stealing it. But, thereafter,
the farce relapses into its own job of getting
laughs. It is true that the advertising cam-
paign, intended as a bluff directed solely
against the Soap King, succeeds, and the
audience sees the great, gullible American
public, which believes in advertising, eagerly
buying a cheap soap at a dollar a cake.
“IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE," AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
John De Lacey forcibly collects a valueless
cheque from Donald Bowles.
The modern American farce depends
chiefly upon its stage “business.” There is
little wit in the spoken word, though there
is brisk machine-gun fire of impossible ab-
surdities; it is the gestures and the farcical
expressions of the actors and the bustling
activity of exaggerated stage situations that
carry it through. “It Pays to Advertise” is
one constant succession of laughs. Indeed
two “curtains” were so smothered with the
chuckles of the audience that the words of
the actors could not be heard. It wasn’t
necessary for them to be heard: the situa-
tions were too absurd to need explanations.
* * * *
The first-night success is chiefly due to the
clever work of the whole company. Donald
Bowles, as the Soap Crown Prince, takes
first place as an eccentric comedian. His
facial expression threatens at first to be
annoying: but with the succeeding acts he
proves that for laughter be need not depend
solely upon that asset. Hale Hamilton, the
advertising “expert,” ably supports him,
though a decided tendency to clown his part
militates against his undeniable unctuous
humor. Leslie Victor contributes a delight-
ful hit of character acting; and Maurice
Dudley and Edwin Lester fill two “straight”
parts with the necessary effect. Tom Maclar-
nio. the Soap Kaiser, gives weight to a part
that occasionally calls for some genuine seri-
ousness. .Myrtle Tannohill has little oppor-
tunity of disclosing her vein of humor: cast
for a simple and straightforward part, she
makes the character likeable and real, with
many a subtle touch. Beatrice Nicholls is
“AS YOU LIKE IT,” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Walter Champney as
Corin the Shepherd.
John Cosgrove as
the Banished Duke.
also to be commended for her work in the
role of an adventuress, though her French —
and Nancye Stewart’s —has apparently been
learnt from the script with travail of spirit.
“On Trial,” now arrived at Melbourne
Royal, is soon spotted as a product of the
same art-pottery works that “Seven Keys
to Baldpate” came from. The “ingenious
novelty” brand of George M. Cohan is on
the face of it. “Baldpate” was a farcical
melodrama wherein the characters mostly
declared themselves to be impositions on
public confidence before they.were exposed
as mere creations of the hero’s fancy.
“On Trial” is a serious murderdrama,
moulded on picture-play lines, the matter
of the present trial of the manslaughterer
being intersected by visions of the near
and distant past, incidental to evidence
given in court. The construction serves as
a striking novelty, though it has the essential
weakness of a fake. A system of play-
writing which places what ought to be the
prologue after the first and second acts, and
sandwiches all three of them between thin
•slices of the third act, would soon become
wearisome. The trick of cutting the film and
putting the cart before the horse, so to
speak, is good business —for once—but bad
arf.
* * -* *
Closely considered, the story is conven-
tional in form and false in feeling. Gerald
Trask, the debonair lady-killer who gets
properly murdered for one of liis sins, is
not true to his type. In what would be
the prologue of a straight melodrama he is
presented as a heartless, reckless betrayer
of virgin innocence. Already married, he
seduces a flapper under promise of marriage
next morning. The fact, that she is guile-
less hardly explains why she consents to
start the honeymoon before the wedding. But
let that pass. Thirteen years later the per-
sistent Lothario is still able to fascinate
the wife who worries him with futile
jealousy. Then lie gets shot to death by
Robert Strickland —and why? Because,
having loaned 10,000 dollars to Robert
aforesaid, he visits the house of his debtor
and persuades Airs. Strickland (who is the
girl he so wickedly wronged of yore) to
suffer some more seduction, in order to
save her husband from being dunned for
tlie 10,000 dollars. Now, Strickland is
about to repay the loan. He has done well
in business since he borrowed the money.
He is looking for a new and happy home,
and bis fond little wifey is supposed to
know all about his improved fortunes. There-
fore there was no reason why she should
sell herself so readily to the man who had
played her a dastardly trick 13 years ago,
and less reason why he or she should
stare so strangely at one another a few
hours later when her husband thinks they
are meeting for the first time. Their joint
lack of dissembling power is inexplicably
conspicuous, even for melodrama. Also it
is hard to suppose that Gerald Trask, the
seasoned sentimental libertine, would fi„,i
tlie least pleasure in re-seducing an ninvi
ing horrified woman, even supposing t \ !l
he had been capable of a cruel betrawii
her young love 13 years ago. The m-m "
evidently an artist in amors, not a c
grained animal. And if the matron 1'
not an unwilling, horrified victim she -f
not a fair excuse for her husband’s ; „ t
vengeance. The story doesn't carrv
t.on with it. One feels that the dm*
stances have been fitted to the trill
murder, not that the homicide was fina ?
the circs. " t 0
All the parts, principal and minor in ,,
thankful jobs for this good all-round in'
company. Even little Dorothy SeacoV,
as the 10-year-old cheeild of tlie defendant'
makes an interesting picture of childhood
in distress—which is rarely the case wi
an infant on the stage. Frank Harvey Z
her dear daddy, is most effective in tin- seen,"
where he discovers his wife’s secret ft,,,
Mi SS Fabian also i„ at |,„
her acting in the vision of her flapperhood
and in the court scene hardly reaches the
heights of the possibilities. Sidney Stirlin
is admirable in bis first scene, and a lit 1.
too cynical and abrupt in his manner of
playing the young betrayer. Frank Elliott
(iwen Burroughs. Herald Ilarcourt. Souner'
hoy Redgrave, Greenaway, Greig. Ronald
Macleod and a dozen others are creditably
employed in either the ghostly portion of
tne play or in the court of justice, which
is intermittently on view from end to end
of the trouble and is a somewhat more
realistic judge-and-jury scene than the pre-
vious-best staged in this country. All things
considered, “On Trial” should go very well
despite its three intervals and frequent
lapses into darkness.
How a strange and untutored maiden
named Esmeralda inherited £2.000.000 and
married into the aristocracy was fully ex-
plained in “.Tust a Girl” at Melbourne King’s
last Saturday night. ’Raida, it appears, is
the orphaned offspring of a runaway match
and was adopted as an infant by a West-
ralian mining camp after her mamma had
perished miserably in the bush near by.
In the camp the girl grows up under the
care of a human menagerie, and acquires
a number of accomplishments which hardly
fit her for the company of the heavy swells
whom she is to encounter later on. Still,
when she travels to London to get the coin
left to her by an obliging grandpa. Sassiety
recognises that her enormous wealth lias
shoved her up considerably in social pres-
tige. Accordingly her free and easy ways
are regarded as engaging eccentricities, and
she becomes an eligible parti whom the
stone-broke Lord Trafford would be delighted
to wed. She accepts his Lordship after one
of the briefest wooings on record, but learn-
ing on her wedding-day that her hubby
loves her for her pelf alone, she bolts
back in her bridal finery to W.A. and leaves
him to enjoy the society of £1.000,000
which she had handed over as a marriage
settlement. Here the play ought to finish;
but an accusing conscience is made the
excuse for another act, wherein Trafford
startles his missus by declaring that ho has
sold bis estates to pay back the million and
ventures to hope that she will make it up.
It is rather an ambiguous plea for forgive-
ness and kisses, but Esmeralda gusbfully
approves by burying her curls in his pant-
ing shirt-front amid the approving cheers
of her former guardians.
“.Tust a Girl” is a humorous bit of
Family ’Ehald literature, emphasising the
extremes of breeding- as revealed by the
superb beings at Belfayre Castle and the
unruly diggahs of Acts I. and jV. The
diggalis, however, are the more life-like
characters, Fred Macdonald. Ned Duggan,
.T. J. Lennon and Jeff Williams lending
plenty of realism to the goldfields
scenes. George Bryant is a professional
gambler in the same community, but bis
high-heeled boots put him on a plane above
bis associates. Esmeralda is played by
an unseasoned flapper, Clarice Hardwicke.
who uses up her meagre dramatic resources
early and keeps nothing in reserve for the
later scenes. Among the nobility Guy
Hastings is a pattern of grammatical pro-
priety as Lord Trafford. Every one of bis
perfectly-phrased sentences shows the tyrannj
of syntax among the uppah classes. Belkin*
is gracefully immaterial as Lord I truce, and
Arthur Bertram as Lord Selvaine appear*
a> if he were born in the purple against. In*
will. Miss Maggie Knight is a vision
perft < t peace and a plentiful menu as Lad'
Wvmi >ver. Miss Adeson. soured through
being jilted by the fickle Trafford, goes as
usual to the dressmaker to drown hoi
misery. The experienced Laura Roberts is
sacrificed in the small part of Polly I arktu-
If she had been handed the role of Lsixiei
alda she probablv would have been .Tost 1
Girl.
The Shakspearian season at Sjdne.'
Adelphi is closing with a couple of six mg'


r
YG
pOORD&iSOI*
FINEST DRY GIN
fL OLD TOM
1
OLDT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
THE WORLD FAMOUS BRAND
Daniel Crawfords
RED STAR
WHISKV
...
ANGOLA WOOL SHIRTS
—are Neat, Warm and Durable.
Pre-eminently the ideal Winter Shirts and, we believe, the
most distinctive in design so far introduced. There is no
stripe as shown in illustration, but a small pin-head pattern,
in Grey, Green, or Slate, with a slight thread of color
interwoven. Two or three of these shirts would serve for
this winter and carry over for next year as well. Stocks
not now renewable. Each shirt has detachable soft collar
—band cuffs to link or button.
Ready to Wear 14/6 We Pay Postage.
State linen collar size. Jubilee catalogue on request.
PEAPES&CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dashes. Iu “As You Like It” on Saturday
Allan Wilkie again offered Popular Prices
a production adequate for a faithful
presentation of the play. AVilkie was an
impressive, dignified Jaques, apparently
quite capable of “sucking melancholy out
of a song as a weasel sucks eggs.” The
Rosalind of Frediswyde Hunter-Watts was
more acceptable in the forest of Arden than
iu the earlier scenes; Walter Hunt subdued
himself into a pleasing Orlando; and Elwyn
Harvey contrived always to be charming.
“As You Like It” goes back into stock
after to-morrow (Friday) night, and on
Saturday "Othello” will come into the color-
scheme.
This is how business is with “Peg o’ Aly
Heart” at Sydney Palace —£10,000 will pro-
bably be cleared on the season, and the
Australian profits ought to amount to over
£30,000.
* * * *
‘Mother Goose” leaves the Sydney nest
on Friday and takes Priscilla away to lay in
other pens. On Saturday the Royal Comics
arrive at Her Majesty’s, and start a season
of fortnightly revivals with “Gipsy Love.”
Sydney Royal, where the film ghosts have
been walking of late, will shelter an old
friend and playmate on Saturday when
Julius Knight returns (“by arrangement
with .T. C. Williamson, Ltd.”) in “The Silver
King.”
The Tivoli Follies have consolidated their
position at the Sydney house, and even the
official communique admits that it can find
nothing new to say about them. It throws
several fits of admiration around the head-
liners of the bright show; but they are per-
functory spasms, and one can detect the
talented writer chewing soap to produce the
necessary froth.
AA’ish Wynne, recently imported from
Loudon by the Fuller management, made
The Bulletin glad it was present at Alel-
bourne Bijou on Saturday. AVish is a
n lined and expressive warbler of uncom-
mon little ditties, but her ability is best
shown in delicately-etched portraits of
London females that are remarkable in their
fidelity to type. Daisy Jerome, who on
Saturday pushed her way into the “Some-
thing Doing” revue, is not so welcome as
the accomplished Aliss AVynne. still she is
a forceful interlude in a show that could do
with still more of her ginger. The Flem-
ings, who are in the living-statuary busi-
ness, are most attractive in their poses as
ancient wrastlers; but Cumby and Brown,
a black-and-tan duet, are neither very
attractive nor very entertaining. This
paper might also mention that Gerald
Griffin is inhabiting a green suit in the first
part and is getting more applause for the
sugary character of his songs than for the
uncomfortable manner in which he sings
them.
SELINSKY, Russian fiddler.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the weeks of “So
Long, Letty,” are now seven, and the
matinees are on Wednesday, except when
Monday happens to be a public holiday.
And there never are many weeks in succes-
sion when Alonday doesn’t happen to be a
public holiday.
The change of bill at Melbourne Prin-
eess’s came in the middle of this week, if
the advt. was to be believed. “The
Spoilers” have ceased to spoil, and “Under
Two Flags” is presenting the Entente cor-
, l 9.[ e tB one of its earliest phases. Cigarette
will continue to die for Bertie in a Ouida-
esque manner until Alarlow’s brave venture
with Italian opera begins on the 17th.
Horace Goldin is in his last nights at
Alelbourne Tivoli, but those nights will
apparently last some little time. A couple
of sleight-of-hand tricks which Horace has
lately introduced are more entertaining to
most people than any of the illusions which
never illuse until a blind has been lowered
and raised again. The sweet Italian voices
of Cardo and Noll, tenor and soprano, are
a particular success in the section of the
programme that isn’t Goldin or his sacred
tiger. Also the Three Kundles and Bill
Pruitt are so recently arrived that the
present notice was in print before they got
going.
“Kultur,” presented by the AVirth Bros,
at Sydney Hippodrome, is described as an
“aqua-drama,” which this paper takes leave
to think is a fairly risky name to give any-
thing in the way of public entertainment
at a moment when the community is wildly
arguing about the relative merits of cold
water and beer. The trouble is that the
average man may imagine lie is being
enticed to listen to an anti-booze sermon,
and therefore stay away. If this hasn't
happened something else has. Still. “Kul-
tur” belongs to a class of production well
worth seeing. The aim of the producer is
to give in spectacular form a story of the
German invasion of Belgium, and on the
whole lie does it well. But The Bulletin
is afraid that the subject had been rather
overdone before the producer arrived,
and that the AYirtlis are not going to make
more than a million out of their enterprise.
In connection with the drama a bright little
programme of music is given by a company
of entertainers, and a family of trick
cyclists do wonderful things on their wheels.
The chief thing in sight at the moment
among Adelaide shows is the new “Alajestic.”
next to the Royal Exchange—up to date in
every way. At its opening on Saturday
the Fuller variety business moved in from
the little King’s, which switches off to melo-
drama. Alelo. is at the Tivoli, too. Hale
Hamilton and his wife, experts in comedy,
finished their too-brief season at the Royal
with the idyllic “Boomerang” and the riot-
ous farce “Twin Beds.” Alaurice Dudley is
now the Dago who sleeps in the wrong flat,
and Celia Ghiloni gives a fine performance
as his masterful wife. This sdason marks
the definite acceptance by the Adelaide public
of the word “hell” as funny. It brought a
shriek of merriment every time. The
Royal is now filling in time with pictures;
and, lest AVest’s. AVondergraph, Pav., Em-
pire, Central and others should not be able
to give the public all the film it needs, the
submarine man-and-shark lot have come into
the Town Hall.
George P. Doolette has been knighted; and
that isn’t going to make Australia think any
better of the English system of bestowing
titles. Doolette kept a tailor’s shop in Adel-
aide, and, after Bayley and Ford had found
Coolgardie, put a few pounds into the syndi-
cate which, by a mistake rather than even a
fluke, “discovered” the Golden Alile at Kal-
goorlie. Of course, that meant wealth, and
he took it to London, and has lived there ever
since, drawing big dividends, and mostly
heard of only in protest against either the
workman or the State getting a fair cut out
of the wealth that was being dragged from
the innards of Australia. He certainly,
through his son, has done a bit of prospecting
in new fields ; apart from that the country
which has made him rich has simply been the
poorer for Ids wealth.
“II.O.”: P.AI.G. AVebster has closed
the old-established telegraph office at
Alenzies’ Hotel (Alelb.) on the ground
that there are other places for receiv-
ing telegrams not more than a quarter
of a mile away. There was no ques-
tion of the office not paying; in fact,
a deputation composed of the heads of busi-
ness firms in the neighborhood offered, if
there should be a loss on the year’s trans-
actions, to make it good. AA’ebster replied
in effect that if the firms in question in-
sisted on sending telegrams in spite of all
he could do to prevent them, he would at
least see that they were put. to some trouble
for their obstinacy. “In many country
districts,” he told the deputation, “people
have to walk five miles to a telegraph office.”
One way of avoiding a lot of trouble would
be to have only one telegraph office in each
State. If persons had to journey a couple
of hundred miles to a telegraph office they
wouldn’t send unnecessary wires to make
AA’ebster’s life a burden to him.
The A.U.S.N. Co. has published a new
guide to its routes. “Around the Coasts
of Australia and Fiji” is a comprehensive
directory to this continent’s fringe, and is
allotted a handy spot in The Bulletin’s
reference library.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Yarra Ben”: Melbourne, “musically
starved,” as Melba recently put it, is
hungrily watching out for the new Italian
opera troupe at the Princess’s on the 17th
instant. After Shakspeare at cheap prices
George Marlow offers the best of the old
favorite operas and some of the new, per-
formed “by the finest combination of operatic
artists that has ever departed from the
sunny shores of Italy, at a tariff within the
reach of all.” Marlow’s enterprise deserves
to succeed, if only for the chance it will
afford us of hearing another language besides
American spoken on the stage.
“Alasetto” : Mrs. Holloway, widow of the
late “Plain Bill,” who died recently in Eng-
land, made her first Melbourne appearance
as Fanny Power in “Arrah-Na-Pogue.” AVe
knew her then as Kate Arden. That was
in 1878. Later on she dealt in old women
parts. She was Holloway’s second wife and
a widow herself. When she joined the old
actor’s family group she brought with her
a treasure in the shape of daughter Essie,
now Mrs. AYoods.
Katie Lee, sister of Jennie, died in Eng-
land the other day. She was the original
Gussie in “Jo,” and was here some years
back.
“Ivaniva”: The revival of “King Rich-
ard III.” by Allan AVilkie calls back
the Richards of our olden Melbourne time.
Geo. C. Miln opened in “Richard” at the
Opera House in March, ’B9. Alfred Dam-
pier at the Royal in 1879 produced “The
Life and Death of King Richard III.,”
arranged from Shakspeare by himself. J.
B. Horne, J. F. Cathcart and B. Fairclough
were all at the Royal in the ’seventies. AA 7 alter
Montgomery in ’67 played Colley Cibber’s
arrangement of the piece. Charles Kean
put up a good performance at the Hay-
market in Nov., ’63. Barry Sullivan’s
Richard, which was something to see and
remember, was without doubt his star part.
He played it at the Royal in ’62. G. A 7.
Brooke was the first Richard in Melbourne
—1855. But Brooke was too massive.
“T. 0.1.”: “Avon” (B. 25/5/T6) says
Australia has never had a great Macbeth.
How about G. A'. Brooke? Macbeth was one
of his best characters, and this writer’s
recollection carries him back to a night in
the old Royal, Melbourne, when the Shak-.
spearian play was given with great power
and completeness. Airs. Vickery was Lady
Macbeth, Mrs. Hancock led the Singing
AATtches, and Mrs. Brooke (afterwards Mrs.
Henry Edwards) was amongst the witches.
Dick Young, also in the cast, was the best
Macduff ever seen on the Australian stage.
I think Airs. Gladstone, now living at the
Dramatic Home, Northcote, will be the only
survivor of the cast.
“C. Ockney”: “Potash and Perlmutter”
have reached the Paris stage, and the whim-
sical clo’ merchants have been received
cordially. The very ’Alurkan piece has been
done into French by John N. Raphael, the
racy Paris correspondent of the London
Referee, and the adaptation could hardly be
in better hands. Raphael, by the way, was
responsible for the English version of Bis-
son’s “Madame N,” recently revived here,
though the Americanisms which have been
pushed into it are not his offence.
“S.S.” : AVe have heard an outcry lasting
for perhaps five years over the self-adver-
tising ferocity of Bernard Shaw, yet Shaw
was writing in England—his best stuff, too
—for quarter of a century without being-
heard of in that way. I contend Barrie is a
much more strenuous and unblushing Poster
King than Shaw', although he proceeds on
different lines, beginning by working up
a fearful air of secrecy over the ex-
pected thing. England seems to get.
pale with awed expectancy while this
canny Scot goes about the country in
the dusk with his finger on his lip
saying “Hush! Hush!” Then, just as .John
Bull is on the point of bursting with curi-
osity, out comes a piffling thing like “Rosy
Rapture,” or “A Iviss from Cinderella,”
although the latter does not strike a distant
investigator as being quite the same literary
gimeraek as much that Barrie has done
lately. Shaw is advertised most by the
people w'ho abuse him for advertising; but
in any case he does deliver the goods.
"J.F.11.” (London) : Tittell Brune has
descended from leading lady to something
too small for large type. In the naughty
farce. “The Girl from Upstairs,” at the
Strand, the title role is played by a pretty
Irish wench, Margot Kelly, who, to escape
compulsory marriage with an old but rich
suitor, ties the bedclothes together, and
alights on the balcony of a fiat below in-
habited by a gay young bachelor. The
usual complications ensue, and a bed occu-
pied in succession by almost every charac-
ter in the piece plays a part in the subse-
quent racketty proceedings. There is a
black-and-tan fox-terrier in the caste, and
not other actor is worth mentioning.
“S.T.S.”: The authors of “It Pays to
Advertise” hand out incidentally a neat hint
to fellow-playwrights. The pretty girl-
swindler, on being bowled out, makes a long
and moving appeal. She has had a hard life,
she says, and it is difficult for a girl to live
these days, if she is determined to keep
straight, but (sinking into a chair, and bury-
ing her head in her hands) “I have done it;
I have done it; I have done it!” —the end-
of-a-,speech outburst so highly approved by
dramatists. The hard-headed business man is
touched at first, but finally tells her she is
only wasting her time; on which she cheer-
fully and cynically remarks that that pose is
always worth trying, and adds: “I nearly
had you going.” Yes, he admits, “but when
you said ‘I have done it!’ three times, 1
knew it was a fake.”
“S.” : The theatrical manager was boast-
ing. “I believe in being generous to my
audience,” he said. “I gave hot coffee all
round before turning the house out.” It
was the miserable comedian who added:
“And the ungrateful swine broke the cup !”
(Continued on page 26.)
“Extra Master”: The tardy decision of
the Admiralty that, in consequence of
the leakage of secrets, aliens, naturalised
or otherwise, are not to be allowed to com-
mand British ships, has special interest in
Australia. The number of Swedish, Danish
and Norwegian shipmasters in the local
coastal trade is a surprisingly large propor-
tion. and the same applies to the crews. If
the new order is to be enforced generally,
there will be something like chaos in Com-
monwealth shipping circles.
The cow' jumped over the moon all right!
N. S. Wales Government Statistician J. B.
Trivett has issued a statement that the
prices of meat last month were 66.4 per
cent, higher than in July, 1914, the month
before the war drum rolled. The prices
of meat, other food and groceries combined
are measured up at 30.7 per cent, higher.
One half of Ala’s population doesn’t know
how the other half exists at this elevation.
Neither does the other half. But they
both, will by and bye.
“Hamer”: Another little scheme of the
N. S. AAYiles Government has gone astray
and the price of meat will be none the less
thereby. It was a fixed belief in quarters
concerned that the opening of the new Abat-
toirs meant the entrance of the Government
into the slaughtering business, and the cut-
ting out of the big firms that take a large
slice of every joint; but it is now announced
that the slaughtering pens are to be leased
in the ordinary manner to Private Enter-
prise. This is probably due to the fact
that in the background the Aleat Employees’
Union was waiting to plank down claims
for a new award, and demand a solid ivhack
from the expected Government profits.
Holman and Co. have had a fairly large
experience of the claims made by unionists
on State enterprises, and are getting a trifle
shy.
Daniel McNamara, who beat draper Aik-
man out of A 7 ic. Leg. Council last v r eek by
250 votes in a poll of 10,000-odd, is a small,
whiskerless young fellow wdio will be con-
spicuous in the chamber on account of his
apparent youth and his absence of fat. A
farmer to start with, for some years
McNamara has been employed at the Trades
Hall as assistant P.L.C. secretary and has
stood several times for the Assembly with-
out success. As a dialectician he is no
great shakes; but he may very likely do
some good in the House as a moderate-
minded interpreter of the Labor Constitu-
tion.
FED UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melba, talking at the first meeting of the Mel-
bourne Music Club, said that Victoria was
“musically starved.”
I write this little lay, and strive
For simple rhymes with addled head,
While showmen two steam-organs drive,
And on the roadside four or five
Brass-bound musicians slowly thread
The measure of a minuet.
A little girl across the way
Is torturing a violin.
Now Smith’s preparing to begin.
Smith is a fellow boarder, lie
Incites a juicy clarionette.
A wild soprano next to me
Is out in frantic quest of C
(I fancy she will get it yet),
And Bond's canary just at hand
Is cussed if it don’t beat the band ;
While Mrs. Smith’s contralto rises
In sundry vocal exercises.
From further off a furtive strain
Of “So Long, Letty,” quavers in;
The luncheon gong booms out again,
The housemaid sings as if in pain,
And briskly “cooky” scrapes a tin....
And Melbourne starves for these? Great Scot!
I can but say: “Take all I’ve got.
For love of Heaven eat the lot!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


A Splendid Business Boot
of Box Calf for 211-
Men’s Box Calf Lace Boots, stocked in Black
and Tan, good quality, strong drill lining, heavy
welted soles, full round toes. A boot that is
really serviceable for winter wear, yet has the
desired stylish appearance. Three different fittings
obtainable in each men’s size— 2l /-pair.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD., o PP . c.p.0., Sydney.
I
s. 1
/
1
“Donald Bryant” '(Thomas Holding) dis-
covers the brand of guilt on “Helen” (Pau-
line Frederick), a breath-quickening situa-
tion in The Famous Players feature “Sold,”
a Paramount Picture that will shortly be
seen here, affording the Australian film debut
of Pauline Frederick, who will later be seen
as the star in the picturisation of Hall
Caine’s romance, “The Eternal City.”
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Eiegantij-
Furnished and Up-to-date H° e ,
now complete in every detail, a •
under the management of
Usher, the Comforts of a
Home are assured. 1 l' e ll
and Service will compare fas
ably with any Hotel in Eng >
America or the Continent.
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Quill” : The Federal Parliament wrangled
on May 22 about whether the widowed
mother of a soldier killed at the war should
for purposes of pension be regarded as a
dependant, and, on pressure, Treasurer Higgs
agreed to this being done. He explained
later on that “the widowed mother of an
unmarried son will now be put in an equal
position to that of a soldier’s widow.”
Someone ought now to see that the Pen-
sions Department is supplied with copies
of the amended Act, for it has apparently
not yet got them, and is still (or at any rate
was the other day) deciding- applications in
accordance with the old provision which
required the widowed mother to prove that
she had been dependent on the soldier for
12 months prior to enlistment in order “to
receive an allowance to the extent of that
dependence.” It was a preposterous arrange-
ment, particularly with regard to young sol-
diers, and operated most harshly in the case
of a mother who became widowed after her
son had enlisted and prior to his death. Yet
such mothers have been refused pensions.
There ought to be no more of this sort of
thing; and the operation of the amending
law should be made retrospective. The
mothers of soldiers killed in Gallipoli
deserve as well of us as those whose boys
may lay down their lives in France.
THE ILLOGICALITY OF THE SEX.
H IM: “I don’t see what you married women
want to shut the pubs up for. Why,
tons of us blokes would have never
thought of gettin’ married if we hadn’t
had a couple of pints in.”
“D.K.S.”: On the strength of a special
study of rifle fire let me say that for killing
power the pointed nickel bullet is the most
deadly ever invented. The Germans made
no mistake when they selected the spitzer
bullet with its pencil point and heavy base
that turns over on the slightest impact.
Roosevelt, on his big-game shooting expedi-
tion to S’Africa, took with him all manner
of explosive bullets, and abandoned the
lot, after an exhaustive trial, in favor of
the spitzer, which the Germans are using
on the Allies to-day. Let any enthusiast
take a walk over a military hospital and
look at the holes of exit in our boys’ limbs,
and there will be no more argument about
the “harmless” nickel bullet. The spitzer
is awful at short range—say up to 500
yards—and fairly deadly at GOO to 1000
yards. The American army has adopted
it and even the British have lately pointed
their bullets, although not nearly enough.
In fact, the old-style bullet is used now
only on rifle ranges and in landings such
as Gallipoli and on other unimportant
business.
“The Old Soldier”: In a “war-note” the
S. M. Herald (31/5/T6) prattles about
“the age of French generals,” and contrasts
the battlefields of Napoleon with those of
1916:
In these days of battlefields extending hundreds
of miles the ‘demands on generals of corps and
divisions in the way of initiative and resource are
infinitely greater than of old. Alert and vigorous
brains are required, and brains that have a resili-
ency which enables them to retain all their activity
when confronted with altogether unprecedented
problems.
Then the old paper goes on to talk of
the improvements Joffre made when he
was given a free hand. The Herald pre-
sents what it supposes to be the result
The improvements he effected were extraordi-
narily marked, and the experience of the next few
months showed that, apart from capacity, irrespec-
tive of age —which was the downfall of a number
of French generals—it was the comparatively young
general who was the most to be relied on in the
new warfare.
Another “war-note” gives a list of British,
French and German generals, with their
respective ages. The British average 53.9
years; French, G 0.5 years; and German,
03.5, with the royalties thrown in. If the
royalties were excluded from the German
list, the average age would be 65. G6 —which
of itself would go a long way to prove that
the Herald’s home-made theory is wrong.
In this underground war the general in
command has little influence on the result
after he has ordered what line the trenches
are to follow, and chosen the positions for
the batteries which are to protect them. In
reality, age, unless it implies extreme decrepi-
tude or mental sloth, is not so serious a
fault in a commander as it was at any pre-
vious time. In the French army Joffre and
Castelnau are respectively G 4 and 65, while
the command at Verdun was unhesitatingly
given to Petain, who is 59 —-more than five
years above the average age of British gen-
erals —and the two most important of the
German field armies are commanded by
Hindenburg and Mackensen, one G 9 and the
other 71.
“Eddyscn” : The train was from St. Kilda,
our apartment was full, and every door and
window was closed against the frosty cold of
the morning. The stout old gent almost lost
in a huge overcoat and muffler, seated in the
near left-hand corner, had
seen to the closing. At
Middle Park a youth
stepped on. The stout
old gent snorted with
anguish when the sliding
door opened. The youth,
finding no seat available,
balanced himself against
the jamb, and did not
close the door. No one
else could close the door
while he remained so.
He remained so. The
stout old gent buried in
the overcoat grunted and
wheezed most pitiably.
It had no effect. We
passed Albert Park, and
the old gent chattered
and sniffed, and the tears
ran from his eyes, while
he made distressing ef-
forts to dig out his hand-
kerchief with a hand
gloved like a pug’s. Sud-
denly, as we approached
South Melbourne, the
carriage swayed with an
extra lurch, and off went
the youth. He struck the soft side of the
cutting and bounced into the water-logged
drain beside the line. I saw that much. The
stout old gentleman bucked up. His eyes
brightened. “Ah !” he said with marked affa-
bility. “Ah ! ah ! And now we can close the
door!”
“Catkin”: They had a grim humor, those
Anzacs. While a communication tunnel was
being dug a party came on a grave; but as
only the man’s arm was in the way, they
didn’t risk going on top to shift the lot, but
let the limb hang dowm from the roof. When
the Colonel passed that way something
tapped him on the nose. Looking up he
saw a hand, and fastened to it the national
motto of Egypt: “Gibbit backsheesh.”
“I DIDN’T RAISE MY SON TO HE A SOLDIER .”
“The Old Soldier”: If it is true, as ex-
Chief Secretary Birrell said, that “Sinn
Feinism is composed of the old element of
hatred and distrust of the British,” it will
never keep Mulvaney from enlisting with
the army. I can remember the time when
Ireland had 8,000,000 people, which was
roughly one-third of the then population of
the United Kingdom, and Paddy supplied
two-thirds of the recruits to the British
standards. Now, when the population of
Ireland is less than one-tenth that of the
U.K., the proportion of its recruits is still
not so much below one-tliird. Irish pam-
phleteers can rave against recruiting till
they burst; they 7 will never deter their
countrymen from grabbing a loaded black-
thorn to help John Bull and the childer
over-sea.
“D.F.” : Governor Phillip gave a go d lead
in the matter of syphilis, and went further
in the way of making it a notifiable disease
in 1788, when N. 8. Wales was only a few
months old, than any Australian Govern-
ment has the courage to do now. When it
was found, in April, 1788. that this plague
existed in the settlement and that those
who had it hid the fact, it was ordained that
any man or woman who was a victim and
concealed the fact from the authorities should
not only receive corporal punishment, but be
put on short rations for a period of six
months.
THE CRIMSON THREAD.
HE: “Have they applied for their divorcef
S HE: “No. You see the pug teas so fond of
both of them that they agreed not to
part for his sake."
The wheeling gulls and the white, ovei-
loaded Sydney launches see the transports
off in style; but there will be a tragedy M,rae
morning if the launch-owners are not ie
strained from piling the decks and roofs o
the shallow little craft with excited relatives
and friends. By the grace of Providence
little boats trail round and round
wounded birds, and do some breath! .
exciting balancing tricks; but 1 rovi
will go off duty some day, and then tnere
be funerals.
AFTER THE SEA BATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Ah, close the door! Shut out the street-boy’s cry
That rings accusing ’neath a hopeless sky!
If I must stay to do a trivial task,
Freedom from taunting is the boon I ask.
Then close the door so that the news he brings
Will not ascend and mock me ’midst the things
Whereby I live, while heroes darkly drown.
This is a tragedy—l am a clown!
In God’s name Silence, lest my reason fail!. .. .
And now with tears to tell a foolish tale.
N.S.W.
MOTLEY.
A REVERIE IN RAGTIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A year ago this very month of May,
This “merry’’ month of May,
We talked of how the war was “just beginning,
Which we were winning;
And in our cars the name of K. of K.,
The fame of K. of K.,
Fat, foolish citizens were always dinning;
His wondrous armies, formed to smash the foe
(Just how, or where, or when, we did not know),
Had all been lying low,
The papers told us so,
This merry month of May a year ago!
A year ago the kingdom of the Turk—-
We said it with a smirk—
Was shaking on its Germanised foundations ;
The Allied nations
Would soon drive Abdul out to look for work,
To look for honest work,
And, in a decent manner, earn his rations.
Ah ! like the hot, north wind wo oft did blow ;
Sad crops of disappointment did we sow!
The war is going slow ;
To-day vve do not crow,
As in the month of May a year ago.
The wise man waiteth for a twelvemonth hence,
The man who is not dense;
The past is gone, and useless is repining,
Expressed in whining;
Behind the clouds that lour on our suspense
And dim our confidence
The sun of sure success, methinks, is shining.
Let the mad Hun protest that peace is near
And note our tactics with a nervous sneer ;
The thought of winter drear
Benumbs his heart with fear,
Whilst we, grown wiser, wait for May next year.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


$
!l;
night time
is chill time
IT is during the chilly hours of the morning that
a goodly number of nasty chills are contracted
merely because proper precaution isn’t taken
about your night attire. Get yourself a cou ple o
warm, snug CEYLON FLANNEL PYJAMA SUITS
from Pike Brothers’.
Just the right weight, with any amount
of wear.
SEND FOR A SUIT ON APPROVAL,
CASH REFUNDED IF UNSUITABLE.
Please state height and chest measure.
13/6
POST
FREE.
PIKE BROTHERS ltd.
Toowoomba.
BRISBANE.
Townsville.
HOTEL SYDNEY
="' Opposite Central Railway Station =====
TARIFF—Red and Breakfast, 6/6 each person.
Board and Residence, 11/- per day.
Board and Residence, 70/- per week.
HANDSOME APPOINTMENTS, PERFECT SERVICE,
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager
“Xibbidard”: According to Henry de Hal-
salle, in “Degenerate Germany,” the Hun
marriage service contains the sentence, "lie
shall be your ruler, and you shall be his
vassal.” The Goldstein-Pankhurst-John
bevy, who are all so anxious for peace with
dishonor, should appreciate that. How-
ever, Australia produces another type
of husband who, far from insisting on vassal-
age, generously extends to his wife the
option of a fine. In a suit for judicial
separation which she brought before Madden,
C.J., in Melbourne, Ada Holdswortli, 56, of
Balaclava, swore that her husband, George,
61, had a scale of mulcts for alleged domestic
errors: “For not turning my bed, ss. ; un-
washed crockery, ss. ; neglecting lunch,’ 55.;
dirty crockery, 10s. ; maliciously neglecting
to get my midday meal on Tuesday last,
os.; for low, vulgar and quite unwarranted
abuse on Monday last, 10s.; for banging the
doors, 10s. (if the door banging is continued
a substantial and permanent reduction of
the weekly allowance will be made) : for
again insolently slamming the doors, 10s.”
Mrs. Holdswortli, however, had a will of her
own. She deposed that once, when her hus-
band threw a plate at her, she left the
broken pieces lying on the floor for six
months rather than pick them up. “He
would drink milk out of a cup,” said she.
“and hang it up without washing it. Then
lie would say, ‘Ha! Dirty cup. Fined five
shillings!’ ” Holdswortli denied bullying his
wife, but admitted smacking her face. “My
heart was broken long ago,” he said. Eventu-
ally the parties made an agreement of which
s’On ah approved, and if there is no further
trouble for a month the case will be struck
out.
MERELY EXCHANGED.
THE GREAT BORE : “You know, I had a rot-
ten headache before I met you to-night;
but I’ve quite lost it now.”
THE LITTLE LOVE : “Oh, it’s not lost — I’ve
got it!”
“8.1. D.”: The war on German trade, i§
still going strong—in patches. I asked for a
bottle of lysol of a certain brand in a chem-
ist’s shop here in Hobart the other day.
The chemist told me they hadn’t any, and if
they had they could not sell it because it was
made in Germany. The same day I was
offered, in a leading fluff emporium, a child’s
guernsey which had “Made in Germany”
printed on the ticket as large as life, and in
another some stockings with the same label.
Why make fish of the fluff stuff and flesh of
the lysol?
WANTED, A WAGES BOARD.
DOBBS: “Well, they say every politician has
his price.”
BLOBBS: “Yes; hut Grahbitall has so many prices.”
Startling demand in the Age :—•
Nurse, Needlewoman, able to make grown chil-
dren. Morning, evening, Williams-rd., Hawks-
burn.
The advertiser will be disappointed. These
times it's hard to even get a woman capable
of burning steak.
* * * *
“Dead Sober”: Here in Melbourne nob-
blers have jumped from 6d. to 9d. 1 person-
ally don’t care 2d., but I do object to being
served with fusel-oil at that or any price.
Twice recently, at what are considered to
be first-class hotels, I have been poisoned
by the untrue-to-label fiend, and but for the
timely assistance of friends who administered
first-aid to the apparently drunk, I should
have earned a night’s lodging in Russell-
street. And “temperance” fools won’t
give a hand to put down this curse. They
yelp for six o’clock closing, just as if it
didn’t hurt to be poisoned at 5.45.
The home-made will came
up for inspection for the
thousandth time in the Sydney
Probate Court last week, and
probate was refused —also for
the thousandth time. The
testator, ’way back in 1906,
bought one of the ordinary will
forms, filled it in, signed it, and
then, folding the document, got
two witnesses to sign the back
of the paper. Having comfort-
ably assured himself that he
had thus done all, he took the
Sunset track. But the Probate
Court, when asked for its
opinion of the deed, said that
the mere fact that witnesses’
signatures were on the back was
not proof that there was any-
thing written on the inside of
the paper at the time, and declared the
whole thing valueless.
* * * *
Adelaide had an example the other day of
the Law’s passion for millinery effects, a
weakness which even the Army is outgrow-
ing. As reported by a local paper:—
The Judges present were Mr. Justice Barton, Mr.
Justice Isaacs and Mr. Justice Duffy. When they
first took their places on the Bench in the Civil
Courtroom, they were wearing full-buttoned wigs.
This, however, was only while they sat in a formal
capacity, to enable counsel who wished to bring any
motion before them to do so. As no new applica-
tions were made, they rose within five minutes,
retired to their chambers, and shortly afterwards
returned into Court wearing wigs of the every-day
Judges’ type.
“Full buttoned” is probably a bad shot at
“full-bottomed.” But surely this, quick-
change-artist business is beneath the dignity
of intellects like those of Barton, Isaacs and
Duffy?
“Sheriff” : The great man dying is often
the great man dull. Sometimes he is hope-
less as well. Isn’t the expiring Cecil Rhodes
credited with the depressing “So little done
—so much to do !” Of all last-speeches I
prefer the one made by the Bananaland
bushman just before he was hanged for
murdering another gentleman. With the
soaped noose nicely adjusted under his ear,
he smiled round at his select eight o’clock
audience and said cheerfully, “Well, s’long,
boys—and always remember that ironbark
ashes make the best damper.”
The Vic. Statist finds that the first
quarter of 1916 holds a record for mar-
riages. There was an increase of 25 per
cent, over the same term in 1915, and the
clergymen of all denominations congratulate
themselves on a most prosperous quarter.
It is now The Bulletin’s painful duty to
point out that the excess in their incomes
must be taxed 50 per cent, as war profits.
The other day a good up-South citizeness
gave a very fine colored print of a Velasquez
to be raffled for one of the local war
funds. The proprietor of a big central
establishment was asked if he would display
the picture in his window in furtherance of
the good cause. He consented ; then, after
looking the print over very critically, he
pointed to the signature and said: “But
you’ll have to scratch that out. I’m not
going to give that beggar a free advertise-
ment.”
A Ballarat criminal the other day re-
ceived his sentence yawning copiously.
“I’m glad it’s over,” he said ; “you’re d—d
dull company.”
* * * *
“Second Star”
The Governor of S. Aus. held forth at Adelaide
last week as follows: “Colonel Winston Churchill
stated that ‘there were 200,000 officers in the Brit-
ish Army with 200,000 servants.’ What the public
ought to know is that every servant at the Front is
as much a fighting man as any other man. Whether
intentionally or not, Colonel Churchill led the public
to believe that these 200,000 were lost to the fight-
ing line, and gave a wrong impression.” During
our training in Egypt the officers’ servants turned
up at the first parade. They stayed long enough
to answer to their names, and on the Sergeant-
Major, or whoever called the roll, giving the order
“Fall out the batmen,” they proceeded to their
respective masters’ tents and there toiled till break-
fast-time at bed-making, boot-cleaning and the like.
(In many units, I believe, the batmen are not
obliged to even show up at this parade.) It was
the same at the subsequent parades. The batmen
always seemed to have lots to do of a domestic
nature while their comrades were acquiring the
arts of war. In the upshot these men naturally
learned little or nothing of drill, horsemanship or
the use of the rifle. In the trenches the average
batman is not merely useless; he is a danger to
his comrades—an inevitable result of his lack of
opportunity to train. He is used, accordingly, to
get food, drink and articles of clothing for his
officer, to run messages, sew, wash, cook, build fires
and shelters and so forth. In brief, he remains a
batman, as distinguished from a fighting man. Kit-
chener, who knew, was much less definite than the
S. Aus. Governor: he qualified his contradiction of
Churchill’s assertion by saying that officers’ servants
are fighting men “according to the regulations.’’
Which didn’t mean that Churchill, who is a soldier
with about 18 years’ experience in the Regular
Army and the Yeomanry, was talking through his
hat, but simply that he had made a disclosure
which was distasteful to the War Office. Whether
officers could perform their jobs efficiently without
servants it is impossible to say, but this is cer-
tain: Under the existing system no soldier servant
who lacks previous military training can be of any
fighting value when he first reaches the firing-line,
or, unless he is a genius, for many months after his
arrival there.
"The Oldest Inhabitant” : The last bits of
the old Annandale earth, the George John-
ston grant of 120 years ago, were sold at
auction in Sydney the other day. Business
sites on Parramatta-road went as high as
£l6 10s. per foot. The historic house, to
which Governor King rode at midnight in
March, 1804, to enlist Johnston’s services in
suppressing the “Irish rebellion” at Castle
Hill, lias long disappeared. To the same cot-
HIS CONSOLATION.
“I suppose your wife always has the last
word?”
“Not always—only the last one that’s
spoken aloud.”
tage Governor Bligh sent a messenger com-
manding Colonel Johnston to come to Sydney
to “consult in the Macarthur insubordina-
tion.” Johnston said that he had met with
an accident and could not come. But he was
active enough when it was the mere convict
who was insubordinate. And it paid. For
“suppressing” the starved-convict outbreak
Johnston got a “king’s grant” of 2000 acres
between Parramatta and Prospect, and most
of it is still in the Johnston family.
WOODROWS PART.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Washington advises that President Wilson has
announced that he hopes to effect mediation with a
view to ending the war. —Cable spasm.
When Freedom shrieked I never stirred, when trum-
pets blew 1 snored ;
When Kultur’s wings above me whirred, I counted
up my hoard ;
I never heard a canr.on roar or shuddered at mad
mirth,
I surely am the deafest man that ever lived on
earth.
Although Man’s thunder rolled to God and trum-
pets woke the dead,
1 sat aloof, stone-deaf to all, and never turned mv
head.
The iron clamor of the guns grows louder day by
day
As demons beat on Freedom’s gates—but I smile
far away.
With hand at ear I sit and smile as deaf men
always do,
Waiting between a crash and yell to hear the first
faint coo ;
Because I am too proud to fight, because of mv
great love,
I'm waiting like a post to hear the waking of the
Dove.
x.s.w.
UNCLE SHAM.
CUPID AND MARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is being noted that practically throughout the
world there is an extraordinary eagerness for
marriage.
Mad War screamed through the shrinking world,
And trailed her skirt of fire,
And man’s most sacred treasures hurled
Upon the reeking pyre,
And where the joyous roses curled
Skulls peeked from out the mire.
Ran Cupid, too, with bended bow—
No pity in his heart—
O’er battered wall, through furnace glow,
By field and ruined mart,
At busy, grey-faced men to throw
His own explosive dart.
Then came where Mars stood ’mid the dead.
All grimed with strife was he,
And huge and grim. “Ha,” Cupid said,
“Great sport I have, for, see,
You’ve made so terrible a dread
Men lose their fear of me!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE PATRIOTIC CADGER.
Mr B. R. Wise (N.S.W. Agent-General) read a paper on “N. S. Wales and the War.” Even in wartime, he argued, the expenditure of English loan money in Australia
ought not to be restricted. — Cable.
“Yowai, we gibbit last plurry man, last plumy tehillin’. You lendit trippence?”


Unexpected results have attended the
total prohibition of vodka in Russia.
The majority of the peasants are at a
loss how to spend their time and
superfluous cash, and there have been
cases of suicide owing to what they
regard as an empty and Lustreless life.
fyjSbian Coroner: 1 Jlild
-Hiat -Me deceased committed
Suicide- cvh'ile ojj- onsound
iTUrid “to Cold
lAjgrter on ihe
■sfimnnick."
A message from 'New York states
that Mr. Theodore Roosevelt's nomina-
tion for the Presidency has been
definitely announced, in response to an
invitation from SO Republican States.
TWg 'Rat'’* •
tue-s , pu&s , cot-we. and
'tak'e'tlitb 'nasty
I. '*
The life of Prime Minister Hughes
has just been published, with the title
of ‘‘From Boundary-rider to Prime
Minister.”
X\XY\e. rtia.y shortly be
a. “Second Volume
entitled "from frime
Munster -to boundary'
” xT
Mels. John:
Its -4mn divjvits
au daylcughT
robbers agin.
Didn't" - _
•Hrc clofes aft me back i«7 JjronT avj life tovwrr
Kali 4> fWvosT cud Oi do uxd ttieir cars att all 1“
t'ood-mnstication drill is the lutest
German “weapon” against England’s
starvation plan.
#/ /JfJO)
"Wi#
Couple A (“t"o&vms^)
V\lcll done. .iprotWer! 1
see you hev\J<2 oor c "
' c a USe WTT
4i«Tclta.ftc<r )for a
| t v/e Amurkart +each Amorkas
.
Amsterdam reports that the com-
mune of Griednau, near Berlin, has
decided to issue numbered meat tickets,
to check the rioting outside shops.
IhECoo^''
FROM PETROGRAD TO MELBOURNE VIA N’YORK.


VHAVING
ni)TICK
Xl£V6R><
n i
1 I b
\ 1 f r \
y
i *S
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
For an
Ideal Shave
n
&M 4
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthj and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
lo JY^~^ er Hwitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
a of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, tiie tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOCRIfT BURBAV, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
2J9 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSOX, Director.
Bt
x-x-;
1
• xx:^
A
/
•XyX
©
:x : : : :-;
w
The H
‘‘Buxton
If you would have the light
quality, shape, weight, and
price, wear \V OODROW’S
famous hat always.
Lbuu.aUe ail Leackig Stores.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died a few days ago at Randwick (Syd-
ney), John Booth, who. after being wrecked
when bringing machinery out for the Mos-
giel woollen mills in Maoriland, settled in
Sydney and gave the city —not so old then as
it is now —its first complete Turkish baths.
QUITE A PLEASANT SENSATION.
SOLDIER: “And yet, after all, what can he
grander, or more noble, than to die
for one's country?”
NERVOUS PARSON: “Oh! Y’y'yu'yess! Ah!
Hum! That is to say — er—it would —
er—he VERY NICE!”
“Latterly. however.” Chief Justice
Madden remarked at a Rechabite concert
the other evening. “I find my chief enjoy-
ment in a glass of milk.”
Charles Stead, who died last week, was
one of five Methody pai*sons who came to
Australia as shipmates in 1864. The others
were Richard Sellers. J. N. Manning, F. T.
Brentnall and W. E. Bourne. Manning
joined the Anglicans and died late in 1914.
Brentnall left the Church and became a
newspaper proprietor and M.L.C. in Bris-
bane. Stead has now gone; Dr. Selloi - s
and W. E. Bourne remain in the Church, the
former 81, the latter 83. Brentnall will be
S 2 this month. To celebrate their golden
jubilee of Australian life a river picnic was,
a couple of yeai - s ago, given them. Fom-
ent of the five attended, Manning being the
absentee.
From the estate of his late dad, the
Markiss of Abergavenny, Lord Dicky Nevill.
now in Canada as Gentleman Help to the
Duke of Connaught, gets £lO.OOO down and
£6OO a year.
Passed out at Pictou (N.S.W.), Dr. F.
G. Dalton, who was a naval surgeon in
the Crimean war. He was on board H.M.S.
Hawke at the bombardment of Sebastopol,
and also took a hand in operations in the
Baltic during the same trouble. Later, he
went through the Maori war, and then left
the sea to settle down as a country doctor
in Australia. He had practised at Pihton
since 1880.
Among Those Present at the disturbance
on the Eureka in 1834 was Henry
Sutherland, who has just died at 84. Born
in Scotland, Sutherland went to sea at 14,
reached Melbourne in ’53, joined the rush
to Forest Creek (Castlemaine), and went
thence to Bakery Hill (Ballarat), where
he was working mate with Duncan Gillies
and Peter Lalor, both of them subsequently
Speakers of Vic. Leg. Assembly.
Sutherland settled at Yarraville in 1857
and remained there until a paralytic stroke
drove him to Fitzroy, where a daughter
nursed him.
Hugh Connell, who defeated Alf Edden
for the Kahibah (N.S.W.) Labor selection,
is. or was in times of peace, a school-
master. He is now abroad with the Aus-
tralian Forces in the rank of captain. While
teaching at Broken Hill some years back,
before full civil rights were conceded to
public servants, he and another school-
master got mixed up in politics and were
moved on. The other was W. F. Dunn,
M.L.A. for Mudgee, and now also in the
Forces as lieutenant.
Killed in action with Pa Time, .Tas. M.
Griffin, 75. Born at Evandale (Tas.) in
1840, he marched to the Deloraine district
five years latex - , and there dug himself in
for life. When the Giblin Government tried
to levy the detested railway rate in 1873.
Griffin was one of the passive registers, and
the authorities seized a horse. So popular
was the owner in the district that no one
could be got to bid for it, so it was sent to
Launceston and offered for sale at Bell’s
ruai’t. But when the auctioneer was ready
to put the horse up a coffin was carried in
and placed in a conspicuous position. There
were no bids, and the horse was returned
to the owner. Griffin’s Horse still plods
through the fireside narrations in Tassy,
and some fiery ballad-maker will yet harness
the old ghost to a barrow-load of rhymes.
J. A. Huxtable, who died at Dunedin
(M.L.) the other day, after 89 years of
strenuous battling, made several fortunes
and did not keep them. When the Victorian
diggings were booming in the ’fifties he
bought a steamer and put her on the Hobart-
Melbourne run. She paid for herself in two
trips, and then burst her windbag or some-
thing. and was laid off. Later he had a
flutter at Ballarat, introduced aerated bread
in Sydney and took a hand in introducing
rice-cleaning machinery to India. He was
one of the pioneers of the meat-export ttade
in the troublous times before refrigerating
chambers came in. and was in London for
some years as the agent of the Australian
Tinned Meat Co.
The late Jack Murray was curiously free
from embarrassment when speaking about
his fox-mer inebriate habits. The son of a
rich squatter, he had as a youth unlimited
liberty and pocket-money, and soon drifted
into the habit of drinking late and often.
Gradually he became an apparently hopeless
inebriate. At one stage of his Parliamentary
life he never permitted himself to become
really sober. Fellow-members sorrowed for
him. remembering that his early speeches
had a fine flavor. At last, just to please
a devoted sister, for whom he had a beautiful
affection, the good fellow who was going
downhill consented to enter a home. He
came out cured of the craving—but that was
all. He was warned that he must never
taste it again and he heeded the warning
splendidly—all the more splendidly because
the world is full of idiots who want to
“shout.” “Did you hear that fool offer
me a drink?” he once hissed to a fellow
coffee-drinker in a railway refreshment bar.
From “Rosna” in London :
The death of Guy Hardy, of Adelaide, ought to
make somebody squirm, but probably won't. He
is one of hundreds of young men who have come to
London from Australia and elsewhere at their own
expense, under a delusion that Britain wanted men,
only to be snubbed by the War Office and told they
had better go home again. Young Hardy was an
engineer and skilled motor-driver and mechanic,
and he wanted to join the Mechanical Transport
A.S.C., where he could have been most useful. He
was curtly refused. Finally he was thrust into the
R.N. air-service as a warrant-officer, and given
work he knew nothing about, and for which he felt
he wasn’t fitted. After protesting and vainly apply-
ing for his discharge, he went to the Piccadilly
Hotel and blew his brains out. The youngster had
a good hank balance, and the usual old lying ver-
dict of insanity was brought in. It was much more
like murder.
H. P. Gill has gone at last. He was S.
Australia’s art expert for 30 years, and had
the chief hand in buying, under the Elder
bequest, the £lO.OOO-worth of pictures which
at the eud of the century about doubled the
Art Gallery of Adelaide in size and value.
He was a fairly good painter himself and a
first-rate teacher, who left his mark on the
S.A. School of Design. Two or three years
ago his health broke down, and now news
comes of his death in the Mediterranean
while on a voyage to England.
STATE SPITES.
MELBURNE MAN: “At any rate, the air is
clean here.”
SYDNEY MAN: “Well, if it isn't, it's not for
the leant of trashing .”
The two pilots coming out from England
to the recently-established aviation school at
Richmond (N.S.W.) are Australians, one
being Lieutefiant W. Stutt. a Victorian, and
a son of an early member of the Legislative
Assembly. Stutt went to Fogland some
three years ago to learn flying, after serving
his time at engineering in Melbourne. When
he received his appointment to the Austra-
lian Aviation School he was Test Pilot at
the Royal Aircraft Factory at Farnborough.
He has several times made trips to France
and winged over the firing-lines. The other
pilot is Flight Commander Andrew Lang, a
son of Dr. Lang, the Y.R.C. handicapper.
Lang was bom at Corowa (N.S.W.), and
spent his early days with a leading motor
house.
THE RIVAL TIMES.
Lieut. C. G. Chapman, the fine. 6ft. 3in.
Australian whose death on the Tigris was
recently mentioned, was the first surveyor
in the Northern Territory to stay out and
carry on the work during the wet season.
He was only a boy of 21 when he theodlit
the Daly River blocks. With two black
boys he set out a new track beyond Brock’s
Creek and found a shorter route which
saved 60 miles by road and rail.
Chief Justice Stout, of Maoriland eot
a military testimonial in Foxton ' 1 I
w«k A beery trooper a«S *
and tried him for a bob. but it
instead one of Stout’s bench addresses on
the merits of buttermilk and no tobaei
The soldier listened, blinked, and said "T
don’t know who you are, but you've got i
honest-lookin' dial.” No further mention of
the bob was made on either side.
Among those now on their way to the
Front is young Alec Parker, the articled
clerk -who last year
galloped away with
the Labor nomination
for the Prahran seat
in the Leg. Assembly.
The selection was
afterwards upset by a
clique, on the ground
that Parker had ob-
tained a list jta
Prahran members
from a certain union
and offered to pay for
the bit of work in-
volved. As the seat
is now only held by
ex-Attorney-G e n e ral
Maekinnon with a
gradually diminishing
majority, the untidv
suburb looks like a
good thing for Labor
next time. There is
to be another selec
tion ballot shortly;
and Parker has left
his signed nomination-
paper behind him. In
view of the alleged in-
tention of the P.L.C.
to permit no candi-
date to go to the poll
who approves of con-
scription. it will be
interesting to learn
what will be done to
keep the movement
pure if Parker, win-
ning the second ballot,
should be in France
when the anti-con
seription pledges are
sent around for sig-
nature. If Parker
can't sign it looks like
a tine chance to give
him the go-by in favor
of a really reliable.
stav-at-hoifie Laborite.
Maoriland’s Police Commissioner Cullen
is due to retire at the end of the year after
-40 years’ service. He was originally an
Irish constabulary man, and on landing in
M.L. got into the uniform of the local
Armed Constabulary. He reached the Com-
missioner’s chair in 1912. When lie leaves
it few will be surprised if it is filled by
Superintendent O’Donovan, of Wellington,
who started on his climb as an orderly in
the local police court. He has been an in-
defatigable student of everything likely to
help him upward, and is gifted with the tern
perament that Commissioners of Police need
and rarely have.
The retreat from the ice-shattered Endur-
ance to the Norwegian whaling station at
South Georgia seems to have been one of
the greatest things ever done in an open
boat. Few sailors are boatmen, but there
was one on that trip—Fred Worsley,
master of the broken vessel. Worsley was
at one time mate, with Bollons, on the
Maoriland Government steamer llinemoa.
and outside of a whaling crew there are no
more expert boatmen than the men on that
ship. Most of their work consists of pro-
visioning lighthouses and patrolling the far
southern food depots. Worsley hails from
Banks Peninsula, and served his apprentice-
ship in sail around the Horn and back
around the Leeuwin with the New Zealand
Shipping Co. He left the Hinemoa to take
command of the schooner Countess of Han-
furly, built by the Government to trade
between Auckland and Niue —Beatrice
Grimshaw went with him on her first visit
to that part of the Pacific —and after hav-
ing had charge of the training ship Amo-
kura for a while he slipped away to Fog-
land and joined the navy. Worsley is a
stocky little man with a red face, an iron
constitution, the digestion of an ostrich, and
a habit of laughing with great joviality ITo
times a day. If he hadn't knocked on
getting any older at 20 he would have been
about 40.
IV THE ONLY HOME OF PF.ACE.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
Shac-kleton safe... .Relief expedition to fit out
f<»- party at Elephant Island. —Xens item.
Down here in the dim Antarctic when the day
draws to its close
And white bergs change by magic to violet, yellow
and rose,
The loose snow falls from the icefield and drifts on
the glassy sea.
While a cold wind like a kitten comes stealing to
play with me.
I'm a lone and lost explorer; so in blood-soaked
haunts of men
They prattle and write of “rescue” to bring me
safe home again—
Rome to the hate and the envy, home to the reeking
gun;,
The battlefields of pain and shame where the Hell-
made thunder runs.
And as I’m poor and human, with a human appe-
tite.
I sit alone in realms of Peace and long for the red
firelight.
I sigh—l ache for the battle. I long for kisses and
din,
With a well-served, flow'r-decked dinner of food that
never saw tin.
I /.noi," I’m mad as a hatter (all men are wrong in
the head),
But War belongs to the living; this Peace belongs
to the dead.
X.B.W.
WINTER QUARTERS.


OVERCOAT STYLE BOOK
A BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET of “ Austral ’’ Overcoat
Styles, one page of which is shown here, is just off the press and ready for
issue. To any address we will send it post free on request.
Throughout the booklet the Overcoat Styles are faithful pictures of the actual
goods, which are also fully described, the object being to enable a customer living
at a distance to exercise his choice and make a purchase with as nearly as possible
the same advantage as the customer who buys in the store.
Carriage is paid on all orders, and, as a final safeguard against the possibility
of dissatisfaction, we are ready at all times to exchange unsuitable goods ; and further,
in the event of being unable to please a customer fully, to return if desired the
amount paid for the purchase in full.
'
MW
W
it mm
«;>*
B
Hj
»•«
o-
-M
S 3
or
5
i
/
II: >’Nr
IS-iliv
/
1
‘AUSTRAL” STYLE, No. 124.
THIS Single-breasW Chester Overcoat Style, although quite conven-
tional, is distinctive for its smartness, and the same graceful cut
will be seen in the whole wide range of fittings at any and every pi ice.
DETAILS: Sipg'le-breaSled Chester, Conventional step collar, broad
lapels, button through front, patch pockets with flap, Gauntlet cuffs,
double-sditched welted seams and coat edges. Back view shows
medium length and fullness of Skirt with centre seam and deep vent,
which buttons.
WITH minor variations
in sTyle, Model Xo. 124
is stocked in a great
variety of fabrics and colorings,
and the wide range of qualities
makes the selection of a Coat
more a matter of choice than of
price.
ORDER No. X 513.
At Thirty Five Shillings the style is
exactly as illustrated and described. The
materials comprise warm tones of Brown
English Tweeds —Heavy Frieze Cloths
in medium Grey shades, and plain dark
Grey Covert Coatings.
Three medium weight
O vercoats, wholly lined
35 1-
Almost similar in style die the following lines at the same
price.
ORDER NO. X. 515.
As Style 124, but with Fly Buttoning Front (see style
3 9), unlined. Medium, Fawn, and Brown Shades or /
of English Tweeds OD/-
OK3EB NO. X. 516.
As Style 1*24, but with Fly Buttoning Front (see style
39), lined throughout. Dark Grey, Melton Fin- or/
ished Tweeds 00/~
Other better qualities are available as quoted below, the
styles of which vary only as stated.
ORDER NO. X. 517.
As Style 124, but with Fly Buttoning Front (see style
39), Cuffs are plain, unlined. Smart Diagonal a o
Tweeds, Mid Brown Shades
ORDER NO. X. 518.
As Style 124, but with Fly Buttoning Front (see style
39), Cuffs are plain, strapped, or with gauntlet Soft
finished overcoatings in Light Fawn, Dark Green and
Grey Colorings, also Medium Brown Shades of rn i
Cheviot Tweeds t)U/~
Other lines not uoted in this list —3o/-. 40/- 45'-
55/-, 63/-, 70/-, 80/-, 84/-. ’ ' '
“AUSTRAL” STYLE No. 124
(Back View).
Gowing' Bros. Ltd.
484 to 490 George Street & 3 to 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
New Branch Shop—3o4 George St. (near Hunter st ). Sydney.


NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Before Making Your Will, or Settling Your Property,
WRITE TO, OR CALL ON,
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
Lowest Charges. No Profits. State Guarantee.
Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Provided Added
for to In-
Ex- Depreci- surance
Income. Claims, penses. ation. Fund.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1902 .. 429,263 226,512 81,002 121,749
1903 .. 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904 .. 454,758 248,313 95,175 111,270
1905 .. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906 . . 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,816
1907 .. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908 .. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
1909 . . 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Life business secured.
1910 .. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1911 .. 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912 .. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913 .. 627,143 284,568 158,571 10,143 173,861
1914 .. 628,243 327,210 125,362 11,182 164,489
191 C . . 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
This office, which got foul through lying
almost motionless in the stream for so long,
has had most of the weeds and some of the
barnacles scraped off; and you can almost
see it moving now. The chief trouble was
the horrible expensiveness of every scrap
of the business that these nice old people
did. Apparently they wouldn’t have got any
business at all if they hadn’t been nice old
people, or if there hadn’t been a lot of men
who have the vague idea that one insurance
office is the same as another. It is a dan-
gerous thing for an office to get hold of a
policy-holder like that, especially an office
like the Colonial Mutual. As soon as the
man who doesn’t know one office from
another is persuaded into taking a policy,
the agents of other offices are down on him ;
and then the process of twisting begins. The
chances are that the man gets some sound
and startling figures from somebody. The
dishonest office meets them in its own way.
It lies, and it produces in support of its
own lies the lies which it has hired other
people to tell. Some of these other people
run newspapers and so-called financial
journals, and are prepared to print any-
thing they are paid for. So the dishonest
office is likely to bluff its new policy-
holder into paying a few more premiums;
and then he goes on wearily backing up his
mistake instead of forfeiting. An honest
old office, like the Colonial Mutual, simply
loses much of its new business by refusing
to lie. It isn’t any use being simply honest
and respectable in business —insurance busi-
ness especially.
But things changed. A new organisation
got to work. An Industrial department was
started —very late in the day; still not
too late. It answered a special pur-
pose in this office: it gave the man-
agement a chance to bring in some new
business-getters, who could do a bit for the
Ordinary department too. The result was
hair-raising at first. By the end of 1911-
three years after the start —the Industrial
department was £49,178 in debt to the
Ordinary department; and, besides, it had
only a few thousands in hand to meet all
its policy liabilities. Then matters began
to improve. Not only did the Industrial
figures look up, but the Ordinary business
started to get the benefit of the new spirit.
The Ordinary expense rate shows this best:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1904 .. £2O 18 7 p.c. 1910 .. £2O 16 4 p.c.
1905 .. 21 17 10 ~ 1911 .. 26 16 8 „
1906 .. 22 8 8 „ 1912 .. 29 14 5 „
1907 .. 22 3 2 „ 1913 .. 25 5 8 „
1908 .. 20 2 10 „ 1914 .. 19 19 3 „
1909 . . 18 0 7 „ 1915 .. 14 19 7 „
But that isn’t much of a standard. An
office could improve the figures arrived at
on this basis by simply going to sleep and
not trying to get new business. A better
plan is to charge 7 p.c. on renewal pre-
miums and regard the balance of the exes,
as the cost of getting the new business. On
that basis it cost the Colonial Mutual 172
p.c. of the first year’s premiums to get new
business in 1913. In 1914 the cost had
been brought down to 153 p.c. For the
past year it was 125 p.c. The cost is still
heavy; but the reduction during the past
three years is highly creditable. Of course
the foregoing is a purely arbitrary method
of arriving at the expense rate. It assumes,
in the first place, a fixed expense rate so
far as renewal business is concerned; but,
as a matter of fact, the office claims to
have made large economies. According to
the accounts the total expenses of the
renewal business have been as follows:
1912. £85.402; 1913, £80,409; 1914,
£71,345; 1915, £55,472.
But there was something else wrong with
the Colonial Mutual. The nice old gentle-
mem had made a bad mess of the invest-
ments. By nursing them and writing them
down the position has been gradually
strengthened; so the interest earnings on
average funds have moved up like this: —
1906 .. £3 18 1 p.c. 1911 . . £4 5 9 p.c.
1907 .. 3 16 9 „ 1912 .. 4 5 11
1908 .. 4.1 1 „ 1913 . . 4 8 0,
1909 .. 4 3 3 „ 1914 .. 4 9 10 ,
1910 . . 4 3 10 „ 1.915 . . 4 9 11
The last line calls for a word or two. From
the earnings for the year the income tax
has been deducted. This practice hadn’t
been followed previously; but as present
taxation is exceptional, it looks a fairer
thing to deduct the tax from the earnings
rather than bloat the expense rate by add-
ing war-times taxes over which the manage-
ment has no control. In view of the deduc-
tion, the earnings rate is now reasonable,
and suggests that the assets are a live lot.
They are certainly far better distributed
than they were 10 years ago:—
, 1905. , 1915. \
p.c. P-c.
Mortgages ..£1,349,326 45.5 £1,427,042 34.9
Public securities 328,498 10.9 1,093,693 26.8
Freeholds and leases 790,386 26.4 835,208 20.4
Cash and deposits 147,739 4.9 256,356 6.3
Other assets .. 378,718 12.3 474,862 11.6
There is still far too much in freeholds and
leaseholds. But the percentages are all
moving the right way.
Industrial Department.
Accumu-
lated
Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds.*
1909 .. £3,481 £39 £3,298 £144
Deficit.
Paid for Standard business, £22,000 21,856
Funds.
1910 .. 54,908 3,483 21,971 7,598
1911 . . 60,484 6,254 45,398 16,430
1912 . . 77,516 7,710 57,855 28,381
1913 . . 86,155 9,356 49,356 55,824
1914 . . 97,036 15,476 49,623 87,761
1915 . . 104,807 18,809 48,735 125,024
*Exclusive of extension of organisation account.
The expenses are, it must be noted, exclusive
of money spent on “extension of organisa-
tion” ; and that is money just as thoroughly
spent as any other of the coin. The real
position is this. According to the actuary
the net liability on December 31 was
£154,510. The assets were £8825 invested
by this department and £48.281 invested by
the Ordinary department; total, £57,106.
That leaves the department with £97,404
still to make good before tangible assets will
equal the policy liabilities. The amount is
still large, but is being gradually reduced.
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. plaims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6,460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 . . 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 .. 10,517 3103 4546 2868
1915 . . 12,250 3480 5978 2792
The Colonial Mutual offers bonuses in this
department. The surplus income over claims
and expenses for the past year was £2792.
The actuary calculates that the profit for the
year (after providing for all additional obli-
gations) was £2578, of which £2471 is
“apportioned to provide a uniform addition
of 2 p.c. to the benefits contained in the
policies of this branch in force at December
31.”
The Bank of New South Wales: —
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., ’oB.. 167,928 10 p.c.= 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar., ’09.. 176,426 10 „ „ 125,000 51,426 1,688,342
Sept., ’o9.. 182,362 10 „ ~125,000 57,362 1,745,704
Mar., ’lO.. 178,939 10 „ „ 125,000 53,939 1,799,643
Premiums on new shares .. 56,720 1,856,363
Sept., TO.. 184,689 10 p.c.= 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shares .. 46,735 1,954,078
Mar., ’ll.. 201,492 10 p.c.= 143,457 58,035 2,012,113
Premiums on new shares .. 21,545 2,033,658
Sept., ’ll.. 222,047 10 p.c.= 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar., T 2.. 215,115 10 „ ~150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept., T 2.. 214,023 10 „ ~150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., T 3.. 259,004 10 „ ~ 156,339 102,665 2,337,504
Sept., T 3.. 250,101 10 „ ~168,946 81,155 2,418,659
Mar., ’14.. 275,746 10 ~ ~ 175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept., T4.. 246,324 10 „ ~ 175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar., '15.. 239,407 10 „ „ 175,000 64,407 2,655,136
Sept., Ts.. 23D,929 10 ~ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
Mar., T 6.. 227,885 10 ~ „ 175,000 52,885 2,763,950
The profits are remarkably well maintained,
thanks to (1) high prices for wool and stock,
(2) a record wheat yield, and (3) the circu-
lation of an abnormal amount of money in
lavish war preparations. The important
point to consider is what the future effect of
No. 3 is going to be. These millions will have
to be gradually repaid, and until they are
repaid they will call for a high rate of in-
terest. Fortunately, however, Australia is
doing most of its borrowing from itself, so
that it will have the benefit of the interest
and later on of the repayments of principal.
This will be of vast consequence to
us, especially if in the future the
price of our staples should be low.
Maoriland, on the other hand, is bor-
rowing mostly from England, and in
the future will have to export great quan-
tities of produce to pay the bill. So far as
the country is concerned it will be just the
same as if its wool-clips and its harvests
and so on were reduced through drought by
the amount which will have to be sent away
to provide interest and sinking fund. So
long as Australia finances the war by loans
raised here, so long will the payment of in-
terest and repayment of principal be a
matter of collecting from Peter of George-
street to pay Paul of Pitt-street; and
Paul will no doubt at once send the
money back into local circulation. But
it is not to be thought that we are
not going to have a bad time. Deceived
by our bogus prosperity, and cursed
by two or three State Governments which are
busy corrupting the constituencies with loan
work, we are importing vast quantities of
stuff which we are not paying for, but which
we shall have to pay for by and bye. More-
over, a large number of our ordinary pro-
ducers are for the time being only con-
sumers ; and the nation is thereby the poorer.
Nevertheless, though we shall suffer, we shall
not suffer staggeringly so long as (1) we
finance the war so that we don’t
have to send away vast quantities
of our future production in order to
pay a foreign creditor, and (2) our
current production keeps somewhere about
normal, in spite of the quarter of a million
who have gone to the Front or are getting
ready to go there, or are getting others ready
to go there. It is tremendously important
to maintain production. That is one reason
why the Holman Government of N. S. Wales
is committing such a crime against the people
in holding labor away from immediately-
productive work.
On the whole, then, The Bulletin’s
view of the probable future of such con-
cerns as this bank is by no means as black
as night. Of course it is not assured. On
the contrary, the future is fearfully uncer-
tain, even assuming that we shall not lose
the war. Such a disaster as that is not think-
able ; we shall win in some way, even though
before it is over we may have to hang a few
people because they committed the crime of
deceiving the country. The uncertainty
lies rather in the doubt as to the conduct of
the markets for our products. On this will
depend, not only the exchange earnings of
the banks, but also whether they will have
to face badly depreciated securities. It; is
pretty plain that the Bank of N.S.W. is
making provision for a possible shaking-up
by strengthening all its reserves, internal as
well as visible. And it is very wisely doing
more than that. In view of the present
plethora of money it is making a new issue
of shares. Its present capital is £3,500,000
and it has £2,763,950 of visible reserves after
paying the current dividend; total share-
holders’ funds, £6,263,950. Its deposits
and all other liabilities total £53,736,740.
Something over a million of that is a special
entry made against the wheat overdraft.
But even so the proportion is now in the
neighborhood of 9 to 1, and it is not
advisable that shareholders’ funds should
take a greater risk than that. The issue
of the new capital is not only justified, then ;
it is provident. One new share is to be
issued for every seven old ones; this will
carry the capital to £4,000,000.
The 12 months’ movements have been
fairly heavy:—
Mar., ’l5. Mar., ’l6. Increase.
Notes .. .. £370,918 £458,197 £87,279
Bills, etc. . . 7,007,533 11,368,836 4,361,303
Deposits . . 38,778,055 41,909,707 3,131,652
Liquid assets .. 25,872,970 31,151,518 5,278,548
Advances .. 25,726,173 28,114,172 2,387,999
Premises . . 800,000 842,500 42,500
Deposits include £1,076,300 on wheat ac-
count ; on the other side there are advances
under the Government’s wheat-financing
scheme, £3,147,937 —the latter included with
the advances. Liquid assets represent very
nearly 60 p.c. of the total liabilities —an
exceptionally strong holding, though some-
what discounted by the fact that Common-
wealth Notes and Government securities
total nearly £12.500.000, or four millions
more than they did 12 months ago.
The Equitable Permanent Benefit
Building, Land and Savings Institution
(Sydney):—
Written Re-
March. Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1904 ..£8,966 9 p.c. =£6,338 £1053 £29,633
1905 .. 9,086 9 ~ „ 6,338 30 32,351
1906 . . 9,545 12 ~ „ 8,451 677 32,768
1907 . . 9,875 9 „ „ 6,338 36,305
1908 . . 10,102 9 „ „ 6,338 518 39,551
1909 . . 9,933 12 „ „ 8,451 455 40,578
1910 .. 10,741 9 „ ~ 6,338 760 44,221
1911 . . 11,835 9 „ „ 6,338 100 49,618
1912 .. 12,805 15 „ „ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on new shares, £1942 .. 53,438
1913 . . 12,365 9 p.c. = 7,204 88 58,511
1914 .. 18,890 9 ~ „ 8,40 l 80 68,920
1915 .. 15,408 15J ~ „ 14,395 25 69.608
1910 .. 15,187 10 ~ ~ 9,390 22 75,383
This co., having been 42 years in the busi-
ness. has no illusions about the present boom.
It knows that a is always
followed by a headache; and it probably sus-
pects that a war-loan drunk will be followed
by a worse headache than usual. Mostly
when ev.en Holman borrows money to sup-
port a “vigorous public works policy,” he
earns at least some of the interest that has
to be paid. But the tens of millions which
are being splashed around by the Defence
Department won’t earn one single ha’penny
of the interest we shall have to pay. The
management of the old Equitable, knowing
what that means, has “preferred to see a re-
duction in the amount advanced, rather than
to push business, with the possibility of
incurring losses owing to a quiet market as
the result of prevailing conditions.” Hence,
though deposits have increased from
£220.077 to £222.312, advances (“mortgages
in liquidation”) have shrunk from £335,708
to £322,093. Loan payments were £112,278
during the year, and advances £71,907. The
surplus funds have been put into unspeci-
fied “temporary investments.” which now
amount to £30.000. Share capital is £93,900;
reserves, £75,383; total shareholders’ funds,
£169,283. There are no liabilities worth
mentioning besides the deposits before-
mentioned ; so the depositors’ security is Al.
Ihe total of advances made during each
recent year has been as follows:
1907 .. £52,514 1912 .. £115,455
1908 . . 51,245 1913 . . 116,687
1909 . . 64,004 1914 . . 104,825
1910 .. 76,622 1915- .. 82,093
1911 .. 89,643 1916 .. . 71,907
Fate has been extraordinarily kind to these
time-payment financiers. When the storm
burst in 1914 it looked as if property values
would be blown to cinders. People expected
that presently we should be looking on money
as some sort of curio. When some business
places opened after that holiday which was
fortunately set at the head of the war, they
found creditors waiting on the doormat.
That day and for several days afterwards
patriots furtively stowed away little bags of
sovereigns in the safe deposit. Practically
everybody was wrong. This is a war
of vast expenditure; and the expen-
diture is in the hands of men who,
as a rule, don’t seem to have any ideas about
economy. So tens of millions are being bor-
rowed and tens of millions are being spent,
and money is more plentiful than it has been
at almost any time before. It is the straight
tip to the concern with heavy debts on its
books to get them in, and to take all sorts
of care that only very sound marks get
credit now. This co. seems to be adopting
that policy.
Aerated Bread Co. (Kv<Wv\
b?g?o^wiU:— 7,965 ils ~f d
Profits. Dividends W nff ten n -
Apr., 1910.. iviuenas. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1910.*. £2347 6p C -£lO5O v^0* 17,965
Mar., 1911.. 3384 8 P ,f HI
Sept., 1911.. 3861 10 „ 1750 J 3,810
Mar., 1912.. 3461 10 4rq 3,782
Sept., 1912.. 3296 10 „ 1750 HI 2,5 1«
Mar., 1913.. 2444 8 hqo Sol J 4 ’ 192
Sept, 1913.. 2676 8 1400 19,37 «
Mar., 1914.. 1648 6 1050 ull 9,287
Sept., 1914.. 563 ” Nil 1 111 9 ’?76
Mar., 1915.. 195 Nil 9,497
Sept., 1915.. 189 Nil 107 9,489
Mar., 1916.. 838 Nil 424! o’^ 7
0f th ?^“°. unt written Off for the past half-
3-ear £lN< is in reduction of the book-value
of leaseholds and £1057 is struck offpl ant
Incidentally, the directors mention that ‘W
Income Tax Acts will not allow any denreoi
ation of leaseholds—a deduction which k
obviously as necessary as that of rental ” T n
effect, it is rental. A would-be tenant pur-
chases a lease at a price, part of
it paid in cash, part in instalments
called rent. There are only three
sane courses for an Income Tax De
partment to follow: (1) to allow the pur-
chaser to charge the amount paid in cash
as an outgoing for the year in which it is
actually paid l; (2) to allow the amount to
be deducted from revenue by instalments so
that the total amount may be deducted bv
the time the lease expires; (3) to allow a
deduction of the full amount when the lease
expires and is no longer an asset. The first
and third courses are unscientific, and the
law should not only allow but require the
second to be followed.
As to the amount written off against
depreciation of plant, it is not possible to
check whether it is too much or too little
The item stands in the books at £13,452, as
against £14,510 six months ago. Everything
depends on how the plant is being main-
tained. If breakages are made good, renewals
being charged to working account, then a
net reduction of £1057 in a plant of this
size looks very large for six months. It is
probable that the plant was over-valued at
the start—nearly everything else was—and
that an effort is now being made to bring it
down somewhere near its true value. If that
is so the position isn’t quite as bad as it
looks. But it is bad enough. The directors
blame the high cost of provisions and in-
creases in wmges. But those things don’t
prevent a competitor paying its 10 p.c.
steadily and putting bv another 10 p.c. or
thereabouts. There is something radically
wrong somewhere. Capital is £35,000; lia-
bilities (including £3500 raised by deben-
ture! amount to £14,110. The one satisfac-
torv feature is that the latter is £2345 less
than the figure of 18 months ago, thougn
against that there is the depreciation mean-
while of plant and lease.
* * * #
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney), which paid
£10.500 for the goodwill and fixings of a
Sydney eating-house as from March, 1911:
Deficit
Writ- (Exclusive
ten of
Profit. Dividends. Off. Goodwill).
Mar., 1912.. £195 71 p.c. = £975 Nil £7BO
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 475 Nil £2165 3420
Profit.
Mar., 1914.. 1121 Nil 4328 6627
Reserves.
Capital written off, £7OOO .. 373
Sept., 1914.. 3152 Nil 667 2858
Mar., 1915.. 1213 Nil 1194 2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.c. = 175 566 3208
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.c. = 350 300 2262
This being an Earle Hermann flotation there
was something wrong with it. An attempt
was made to right things by throwing over-
board half the capital, reducing it to £7OOO.
In other respects the proceedings have run
something like this :
(1) The co. paid £10,500 for the goodwill and
fixings of a restaurant. That is, it paid £lO,OOO
or so for the reputation of a chef. It didn't bind the
chef to stay.
(2) The chef left.
(3) In dismay the co. took over the lease, etc., of
an adjacent pub. It knew nothing about running
pubs.
(4) The restaurant business being apparently hope-
less, the co. sub-leased it to the old chef. So the chef
got the co.’s money and all that is left of what he
got the co.’s money for. Which proves that cooks
can sometimes make other things besides sauces.
Hitherto it has been possible to show what
assets the co. owns apart from intangible
goodwill and leases: the latter, so far from
being an asset, may as easily be a liability.
The form of the accounts is now altered, and
leasehold and plant are lumped together.
Apart from this leasehold and plant
(£10,036) the co.’s total possessions amount
to £3204. after providing for the current div.
The liabilities are £2B2S. It is quite pos-
sible there may be some profit in the pub-,
though it is an uncertain proposition; it is
equally sure that the security for the capital
is pretty rotten.
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ * &
Mar., ’09.. 9,510 10 p.c. = 7,500 2000 10 26,042
Sept., ’09.. 9,130 10 ~ „ 7,500 1630 26,d4'-
Mar., ’lO.. 33)73 Nil 23,469
Profits. _
Sept., '10..26,263 15 p.c. = 11,250 4000 11,013 34.48-
Mar., ’11..12,665 15 ~ „ 11,250 1,415 30,8^/
Sept., ’11..12,281 10 „ „ 7.500 4,781 40,6<»
Mar., '12.. 8,125 10 „ ~ 7,500 3500
Sept., '12..15.290 10 „ „ 7,500 3050 4,740 42,5«
Mar., ’13..17,664 10 „ „ 7,500 3205 6,959 49,50-
Sept., '13..18.084 10 „ „ 7,500 3303 7,281 56,783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 .. 38,m*
Mar., ’14..16,032 10 p.c. = 9,207 3500 3.320 41.358
Sept., ’14.. 6.400 5 „ „ 4,997 3500 39,281
Loss. , n , 9
Mar., ’15.. 713 Nil 3500 30,U4»
Profit. _ nfll
Sept., ’15..10.533 5 p.c. = 5,000 3500 2,033 3/,081
Mar., ’16.. 9,828 5 „ „ 5,000 3500 1,328 38,409
“The foreign trade of the port | Newcastle] has
almost ceased to exist owing to scarcity of ton-


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
May be appointed as
Executor and Trustee under
a Will;
Trustee under Marriage or
other Settlement;
Administrator in Intestacy;
Attorney under Power,
Agent, etc.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
53-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
is
V^ARtBORN
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine, Capital
Accident, Subscribed Capital
Live Stock. Paid-up
£250,000
194,235
82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
“There is a ‘but’ in everything’.” “Chromol”
Belting is unequalled for power transmission in the
mine—in durability, pliability and efficiency it will
stand the most severe test. “But” —you can only
prove it by a practical test on your mining plmt—
experience will prove far more convincing than marc
“say so.” “Chromol” Belting is mineral-tanned, and
is longer and stronger in fibre than ordinary belting.
Under all conditions in any climate it will prove
satisfactory—being heat- and moisture-proof it will
not readily deterioroate. Used on many of the most
important drives in the mines of the Commonwealth.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., “Pioneer Leather Works,”
117 York Street, Sydney (Opp. Q. V. Markets).
Inter-State Agents:-—Victoria: Geo. Russell Pty.
Limited, Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Aus-
tralia : J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth; Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co.,
Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster, Argent
Street.—A dvt.
Aladdin may have had a very wonderful lamp,
but we have our doubts. Anyhow if it was true,
then the lamp must have been a Mazda. There are
no doubts about a Mazda Lamp, and it is within
reach of all. Its light combines durability and
brilliancy, together with a caressing, soothing soft-
ness devoid of all glare, and clear as the light of
day.—Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
fgr precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.—Advt.
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particular^.—Advt. [3
Extract from The Citizen, London, 15th Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office. —In the
personal accident and sickness department also the
result of the operations for the year has been
entirely satisfactory, and bears indisputable evidence
that the Society’s method of dealing promptly and
generously with its just claims meets with increas-
ing support and appreciation. The profits enabled
the directors to declare a 2 per cent, bonus
addition to all the benefits covered. This addition
is permanent, and likely to be increased from year
to year.”—Advt. ' [5
“Pioneer” Wood Stave Pipe lasts indefinitely, and
the sole condition to ensure durability is that the
pipe shall be kept saturated. In addition Wood Pipe
is the most economical pressure pipe obtainable.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
57 York Street, Sydney. (Contractors to all State
Governments.) —Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. —Advt.
In addition to making Wrought Iren, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.—Advt.
The celebrated “Leplastrier” Road-Graders are
most suitable for Australian conditions. Prices
range from £25 upwards. Full particulars from
the Australian Machinery Co. Ltd. Charlotte Street,
Brisbane, or Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Sydney.
—Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign I‘ucents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. —Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. "
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row t Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
and to Government restrictions on that
which is available”; so the gross receipts
were down to £94,948 as against £125,295
in the half-year to the end of March, 1914.
The directors growl, too, about the scarcity
of labor, coal-mining not being a job which
sister Susie can tackle in the place of the
boys who have found a job abroad; and,
though there is fine pay when there is work
to do. it isn’t steady and sure enough to
attract many men from other jobs. Since
t h e half-year ended the co. has had a fur-
ther tribulation in the shape of a fall in
the workings—apparently rather serious,
though the precise nature of it isn’t yet
ascertainable.
Generally speaking, the visible financial
results have been disappointing; and there
is doubt whether the concern is handled to
the best advantage of the shareholders. The
accounts have exhibited these principal
changes in the past 10 years—
Mar.,’o6. Sept.,’ls. Mar.,'l6.
raD j ta l .. .. £150,000 £199,995 £200,000
Liabilities .. •• 7,320 72,640 71,026
\ssets other than mines,
rail and plant .. 20,620 57,341 59,490
Meantime the book-value of the property
has been increased by about £104,000. In
other words, while the co. owes £94,956
more to shareholders and public, mine and
railway property has been increased in book
value by about £104,000 and other assets
by £39,000; total £143,000. On the sur-
face, that means that about £50,000 of sur-
plus earnings have been accumulated in 10
years; but everything really depends upon
whether the mine property has been written
down sufficiently to compensate for the
rapid extraction of coal. In former years,
when the figures could be followed, the
writing-down was certainly very rapid. The
property (which includes the East Greta
railway) is an exceptionally fine one; and
considering its very moderate capitalisation
the dividend looks too small.
* * * *
From a man in the mining business who
reckons that the Labor Government is hatch-
ing out an octopus :
It is time that the public was made aware of
the movements of the local metal magnates to
replace a “made-in-Germany” combine by a home-
grown ring. The large Broken Hill group on the
one hand and the powerful English crowd of metal-
sellers on the other are fully alive to the benefits of
getting the business into their own control; and
whilst Australians must be fair to these people, they
must also consider the other producers of zinc ores
and concentrates, together with those who are embark-
ing on the mining of them, or may do so in the
future. The smaller fry surely have some rights.
The arrangement is that 60 p.c. of the produc-
tion shall go to England and 40 p.c. be retained for
Australia —this of a yearly production of 450,000
tons. The 40 p.c. is to be handled by two or at
most three companies in Australia by electrolytic
and distillation methods. It must mean years
before they can get going; and isn’t it certain
that even then they will handle the products of
their own mines before they turn their attention to
the wants of the small outsiders? Not until it is
“not possible” to handle the stuff in the combine’s
works, or until the output exceeds 450,000 tons, will
the small outsiders be allowed to seek markets else-
where among our Allies—Belgium, France and Japan
—or in America. At the present time the smaller
companies could find a market in Japan, and the
Japs want the stuff badly ; but the Federal Govern-
ment shut down on the export.
We must ' look after the smaller producer, who
is really a pioneer in his way, otherwise this con-
stant bar to progress, the non-competitive combine,
will hold up Australian technical skill; and Aus-
tralia can’t afford that. What if our farming or
our wool-growing industry were faced by a non-
competitive market? It’s the world-wide competi-
tion which makes for its success. Often whilst our
minds are busy getting rid of one devilish idea,
throwing it out of the back door, another wolf
which may prove quite as unwelcome sneaks in at
the unguarded front door. The Australian metal-
producing industry has had a set-back. Let us
look well, now that the house is being set in order,
that we keep the wolf out. Let us have some
chance of a competitive price, else why have a
Metal Exchange at all ? And if export must be
regulated, then let it not be regulated at the expense
of the small man—the very man our present Gov-
ernment was put into power to help.
• * » *
Not so dusty was the Edna May Central
clean-up over which the plungers have been
gambling heavily. 2881 tons yielded £4756.
Analysed, 1758 tons from the new reef
averaged 465. and 1123 tons of cement 12s.
Bd. The latter value appears to be stable
for the cement. On the other hand, there
has been nothing but variation in the stone
broken from the new formation. Thus, in
March 1119 tons averaged 545. 6d., in April
1600 tons went 395., now 1758 tons go 465.
Costs have jumped from 17s. to 20s. on
account of development work. The co.
should net about 14s. per ton on the total
May output, and have Bs. to play with when
the tailings can be treated later on. There
doesn’t look to be a constant Is. per month
in the yields until this Bs. is skimmed off
or until the co. can beat out more ore from
the new make. The latter should happen
soon.
~ iH 1 co^ s getting up, a lot depends at
tm Edna May (W.A.) on the new slimes
Plant. lhe knack of handling this hasn’t
been mastered yet. Still there is plenty of
time ahead and a dump of 30,000 tons to
practise on. Most of this dirt is choice
stun, but with the pumps having to drain
the district and a new lift to be sunk, a
lot of wealth needs to be unlocked to keep
the co. s path free of bumps. The quarter’s
returns to the end of April were:—
T , , Yield. Costs & Development. Surplus.
February .. £13,355 £4886 £8469
Mar ch . . 12,239 7369 4870
A P n l . . 11,136 5442 5694
As the full figures for May aren’t yet avail-
able they can stand over, but the hard fact
shown by those just quoted is that, as it
takes over £6400 to pay each month’s 3s.
div., the past average won’t do. For the
whole six months returns don’t work out
much higher. The divs. eat almost the
whole working profit, and there is adminis-
tration and depreciation to he provided for.
V hat with depth and water there isn’t
much chance of a cut in costs, either. If
driving south from the 300 ft. crosscut shows
a drop in gold contents in the hook of the
formation to the south-west, the recent
market uneasiness will be explained. If
the cause isn’t there, then the scuffling is
over the fear that ore reserves have had to
be drawn on too stiffly because of the water
hold-up at 300 ft. The bull card the co. can
play is the slimes dump, for if its resources
can be drawn on the bears can be as easily
dished as they were in the big boost of a
couple of years ago.
The Riverina South (W.A.) has proved
6000 tons of ore between the 300 ft. and 400 ft.
levels. The first battery run, of 633 tons,
cleaned up gold worth only £1025, so mana-
ger Dick was set to close sample the whole
block; and as he got 965. per ton a second
bulk sample of 710 tons was treated. This
time the average was 675. 6d., so the flush
of joy once more showed upon the cheek of
the office. This was not the only point that
led to the deal in the claim being clinched
by the Turner-Day-Dyason combination. A
drive pushed out north off the main shaft
at 300 ft. along a flat pegmatite dyke got
stone overhead beyond the accepted limit
of the stoped ground. More promising was
the striking in a short crosscut of the
parallel shoot, almost vertically under
where it shows at the surface. This is the
second string to play on at the south end
of the claim. Now the third point is whether
under the big length of stoped ground near
the old Riverina mine the so-called No. 2
North shoot can be picked up below the
level where the old miner gave up. After
settling up with the vendors the co. will
have a pretty solid outgo to face for plant
and prospecting, and possibly to fix up an
adequate water supply. But this won’t worry
the people behind the show, for they got on
the right side bulling Edna Mays and are
as full of optimism as an egg is of chicken.
Both Broad Arrow and Leonora (W.A.)
claim to have brightened considerably. On
the former field the gold yield is improving,
new finds are being reported, and the num-
ber of prospectors is increasing. Among
the old shows that are being worked is the
Hill End, which yielded over a quarter-
million sterling in the early days, and was
sold after it had done its dash to an Eng-
lish co. for £25,000. Leonora owes its
present leg-up to the recent sale of the
Gold Blocks, and a number of resurrections
have taken place as a result of the deal.
Good prospects are being met with at vari-
ous points, and in one place between Leonora
and Diorite King a small lOoz. crushing has
been obtained.
Ivalgoorlie and Boulder Miners’ Union has
decided to apply to the Federal Arbitration
Court for higher wages and better working
conditions. It also wants the Court to
endorse its determination not to work with
enemy aliens who were not naturalised
before February 1 last. Vigorous efforts are
being made to rope-in the 500 non-unionists
employed on the field, and committees have
been appointed in each mine to use moral
suasion on the outsiders. Then, after a
certain date, it is proposed to start a cam-
paign to exterminate the non-unionist.
The fact that £174,613 of Ivanhoe’s sur-
plus cash has been invested in almost all
parts of the world except Westralia makes a
lot of bad feeling over there. If Westralia
had nothing as jrood offering, the co.’s slight
on the State which provides the money would
not look so bad; but the accounts show that
only £5908, or less than per cent, of the
money invested, was earned in interest, and
all this and nearly as much besides was
swallowed up in depreciation.
“N.F.P.”: Sorry to contradict, but a
Bulletin par. re the Karridale (W.A.) is
wrong. Water did not beat the prospectors
at 80ft. The prospectors worked the Karri-
dale to 180 ft. Hard country and reef split
into threads with not much gold beat the
prospectors. I know —for the best of
reasons. As regards the Yilgarn Consols,
printed reports refer to an entirely different
mine, the Joffre, which has no connection
with the Karridale. Up to date there is
a very fishy smell about the whole business.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) made a profit of
£115,983 for 1915, and ■ four dividends ab-
sorbed £105,000, taxes £9750 and directors’
fees £1312. The year’s expenditure on plant,
equipment, etc., totalled £641, and on de-
velopment £29,339. Assets apart from mine
plant and ore reserves were : Stores, £31,825 ;
sundry -debtors, £932; investments, £174,614 ;
on loan, £20,375; bullion £28,320; cash,
£35,138 ; total, £291,204. Liabilities amounted
to £16,710. General-manager Nicolson re-
ports the mining position at depth unchanged,
the main lode being still in the clutches of
porphyry. There has been no material alter-
ation since Dr. Maclaren’s report in October,
1913, except that at 3563 ft. the lode has been
shown by a bore-hole to have dipped west to
within 12ft. of the western wall of the
porphyry, which has become almost vertical.
He proposes to sink the shaft and put down
another bore at 3620 ft. so as to obtain fur-
ther information as to the probable dip of
the porphyry bar and of the lode. The re-
sult of this bore is expected about the end
of September. Ore reserves are stated to.
have been increased by about 16,500 tons
since the last published figures, and show no
diminution in grade. . .
South Kalgurli (W.A.) estimates that at
March 31 last it had 157,617 tons of blocked-
out ore reserves assaying 6dwt. 3gr., and
89,095 tons of probable ore worth sdwt.
21gr. The corresponding figures for March,
1915, were: Blocked out, 165.146 tons assay-
ing 6dwt.; probable, 85,310 tons, value
54dwt. The mine has altered very little in
12 months.
Augusta’s plant (W.A.) was sold the
other day, and realised £914. Shareholders
are not likely to get anything.
Spring Creek (S.A.), recommended by
S.A. geologist Keith Ward, has received
Commonwealth permission to register, and
is formed into an Adelaide co. of 50,000
shares of £l, of which 15,000 are reserved.
The mine was opened in the ’6o’s, when the
matte had to face 130 miles of cartage, and
low metal prices put it out of action in
’74. A local syndicate with £6OO capital
took it on in 1906 and dropped it in 1907
because low metal prices couldn’t face
40 miles of road haulage. A rail-
way is now within three miles of
the mine. All ore above the tunnel
level has been beaten out, but 24ft.
low T er down winze drives show a shoot
50ft. long, said to be 21ft. wide in the south
face, worth 9 p.c., and 7ft. in the north face
bulking 8 pc. The co. while, unwatering
the shaft and opening out a lower level will
break ore from the winze drives and hand-
pick to 15 p.c.
Managers are out with pompoms in pur-
suit of the union leader who is sweeping up
men at the Victorian deep lead mines to
take on sewering jobs in Brisbane at £1 a
day. “Offer it first to your own State’s
miners,” Bill Toole and Bryant say. These
two skilfully got on to the “contract” game
a while ago, and looked like making a suc-
cess of it until these Northern people
offered their temptations to the, best men
in the mines. Plaintive wails are now
heard from the Ararat board-rooms, for
should the parties remaining at work fail
to earn a minimum wage Justice Powers
may have to settle whether a breach of his
award has taken place. The worst of all is
that, while this battle is on, the callpayer
is getting tired. Though he has put up the
best part of £lOO,OOO in the New Langi
and a big wad in the South Langi, he feels
like throwing up the sponge unless he can
get a run for his cash.
Tasmania is fairly well stocked with
minerals, but so far it hasn’t opened up much
in the way of steam coal. For years the
railways have been using a mixture of two-
thirds Mt. Nicholas and Cornwall (Tas.)
coal and one-third N.S.W. coal. This means
importing about 10,000 tons per year, and
as the local coal-mines are having a pretty
rocky time, it was decided a couple of
months ago to try to run the railways with
local coal only. The result was that the
trains went even slower (which seemed im-
possible), and there were loud yells about
late mails .and passengers stranded at
junctions and so on. Now the railways
have gone back to the old ration. ' The Speck
has what the- railway people have proved by
test to be a good steam coal at Preolenna,
but it’s off the line. The State is building
a tramway, in that direction, but .it stops
before it gets to the mine.
From a battler in the Territory :
Re Hatche’s Creek wolfram, of which I saw a
mention in a Bulletin last year. It has turned out
a tip-top little, gouger’s field —plenty of rich leaders
and some .very fair alluvial. All the claimholders
are doing well, in spite of the great distance from
market. However, none of us expect to be here
long, as there isn’t much indication of permanency.
The field is reminiscent of Winneke’s Dep6t—rich
surface leaders and an absence of defined lodes.
That was gold and this is wolfram, worse luck. Still
we have made a few hundreds and won a few tons of
stuff that the nation wants quite badly as it
does the yellow dross.
* <.J * * *
Copper having gone up, Westralian Mines
Department has agreed to increase its ad-
vances to producers of ore on a basis of 00
p.c. of assay value. The previous standard
was £56 per ton ; the new is £75. This con-
cession is designed to stimulate production,
as under the old rate some low-grade pro-
ducers found it hard to make ends meet.
* * * *
Meekatharra miners (W.A.) are dissatis-
fied with the award just given by the State
Arbitration Court. With the exception of
some trifling increases in wages they have
gained nothing. The Court refused the
Union’s request for a 44-hour week, on
the ground that this is no time to reduce
working hours for fear of curtailing produc-
tion, and it also decided against the Union
on the Sunday labor and overtime questions.
Westralia is the only State where miners get
no special pay for overtime, and as they
cannot get it from the State Court the
Meekatharra men are going to try their luck
in the Federal Court.
Hampton Uruguay has passed in its
checks. It was the second reconstruction
of the Hampton Plains Estate (W.A.), and
owned 189,000 acres of land with mineral
rights, and also the disappointing Lady
Miller mine at Norseman. As there are
92,800 4 p.c. and 6000 10 p.c. mortgage
debentures, and about £lO,OOO of debt
besides, shareholders needn’t expect any-
thing.


CIMRIIS
Vintage 1906
CMP/M
NE PLUS ULTRA
M
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble in
the following manner: Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used ; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet
know the secret. — Advt. [3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CQ, CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG » HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 5, 1916.
My Dear Arini,—
Did you notice the other day that, prior
to the fall of Kut el Ainara, an attempt had
been made to relieve the beleaguered city by
taking supplies to it in aeroplanes? And
there was something which never happened
before since the Earth was a bubble newly
blown into space—one of the men who were
trying to relieve Townshend dropped in one
evening, had a yarn over the bad look of
things, and then went back to his own job.
The Australian is in most places; and he was
ill this.
Very early in the Mesopotamia campaign
an Australian Flying Corps was formed, and
was lent to the Indian Government, which
had that business in hand. The little lot left
Melbourne in March, 1915, had a cruel time
at Busra, the headquarters, through heat,
flies, fever and mosquitoes, and when I heard
from them by the last mail they were looking
forward rather gloomily to another hot
season, and wondering when they would get
the relief they have an idea is just about “up
to them.” I send you two out of a handful
of interesting “snaps” they post me—one of
the old town of Busra; the other of the boat
used on the Tigris for bringing down sick
and wounded from the expedition which tried
to push through to General Townshend’s
relief.
A Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Tame Mice may be the outcome of New-
bury’s concert last week. Thirty or forty
persons in a possible Town Ilall audience ot
2000 make a demonstration. The pianist or
vocalist rushes back and 1900-odd yawns
await his final departure. There were two
genuine encores in all the weary repetitions
at the Newbury affair for the North Shore
Hospital. One burst was for Phil himself—
lie was in his best vocal form. The other
greeted Marguerite Edwards, whose brilliant
performance at the piano in Liszt’s “Fan-
tasie Hongroise” (Ernest Truman at the
organ) was unexpected manna in a wilder-
ness. Tenor Phil gave us “Maud” as one
encore, and hustled that young woman to the
garden gate in a few heavenly top notes.
The Governor’s eldest, Mary, with Help
d’Apice, sat to the bitter end of the snail-like
events.
The fragments of society that faced the
bleak outlook on Saturday took their longest
wraps to Randwiek. Fur coats over short
skirts, and pony-skin bulwarks against the
winter breeze, shrouded the occasional
“smart” outfit. Mrs. Tom Watson’s pony-
skin rug was one of the best-looking of its
kind. The Spencer Brunton lady was furred
almost to the hem of her corduroy silk gown.
A band of golden-brown pelt went round the
edge of this Esquimau drape. Daughter
Evelyn’s big coat was fashioned of some
exclusive little amber-colored beast that
goes about six to the square yard. Mrs.
Kenna, a handsome magpie, had a snug black
pelt round her shoulders. A Dangar or two
and the legal Allen family and a few
strangers meandered into the members’ en-
closure. But the day was, from a milliner’s
point of view, as bleak as the skies.
Premier Holman and his missus have been
visiting Broken Hill, which of course wel-
comed them with a strike. Their hotel’s hot-
water service had downed tools, and the
grimy party had to wait till it was argued
with and coaxed. It repented at leisure;
but it was at least hard luck for the Pre-
mier to strike trouble with the water supply
on which his Government had only just fin-
ished wasting a couple of hundred thousand
pounds.
Mention of Broken Ilill recalls that
General-manager Delprat’s big, burly son
Theo has been bustling about Sydney. Six
years ago he went to S’Africa to join the
service of the great De Beers mine, and is
still with that co.—on its explosive-making
side. He brings to Australia an energetic
little family and a beautiful collection of
his own snapshots.
Small, red-frocked infants sucked their
lingers under leafy trees and visitors tramped
the gravel path of the Ashfield Infants’
Home. The anuual meeting the other after-
noon served up the report -f an institution
which has an unblemished record for saving
infant life. Dr. Mills, the hon. medical
enthusiast who did so much for this home, is
at the Front, so Dr. Cosh sees that the
babies get physic when necessary. The
plump, rosy-cheeked urchins in the garden
don’t look as if the medicine-bottle came
round very often. Governor Strickland sat
behind the inkpot—it was only saved from
wreck by A.D.C. Firth at one crisis—and
Mr. Winchcombe handed a figurative posy
to the committee.
S. Australia’s Traffic-manager Jas.
McGuire has been showing mother around
Sydney before he takes his turn at being
the State’s Railway Commissioner next
month. They are staying at the Metropole.
Simultaneously our State’s Chief Railway-
man Harper, just retired, is up at Port
Macquarie fishing and trying to forget that
George Stephenson was ever born. He has
picked up a mate of long ago, Duncan
McLachlan, the just-retired Commonwealth
Public Service Commissioner, and the pair
are getting very friendly with the schnapper
of those parts.
The French concert gathered' a large audi-
ence under the Conservatorium roof the other
night. Allies’ Consuls in the swallowtails of
unofficial life got in early. The always-
punctual appearance of Consuls Watteeuw
and Chayet, by the way, might be copied by
those disturbers of the peace who regularly
trample on the early worm at these affairs.
Pianist Yvonne Charvin, with her French
skipper just in port, didn’t find the evening
too long. Yet an otherwise admirable per-
formance of Chausson’s Quartet which
opened the concert gobbled up an unfair
share of the limited time. Cyril Monk, chief
fiddler; Alfred Hill, with a viola in his
arms ; and Carl Gotsch behind a ’cello were
responsible. Iris Rego was an efficient sup-
port at the piano. The star turn was the
Belgian baritone’s song, “Vision Fugitive,”
from the now-comatose opera “Herodiade.”
On the Tigris, in Mesopotamia. —Steamer
and punts bringing down sick and
wounded under the protection of the
Australian Flying Corps.
Greatly daring, a Scandinavian singer, with
a wad of notices from the other side, came
this way a few weeks ago. She owns a
youthful and attractive appearance, and the
fiord-like name of Inga Orner. But, vocally,
she has thus far fallen short of schedule. x\n
indulgent audience in the Conservatorium
gave the stranger the benefit of the doubt.
’Flu’ and nervousness may be responsible for
the lady’s unavailing efforts to hit her top
notes in the right place. You never can tell.
The irrepressible Lindsay family (you
know the work of Norman and Ruby and
Lionel) has given two fighting men to the
great struggle. Dan, a typical Australian
bushman, can draw a horse as well as he can
sit one. He goes into the Wild Beasts’
den with the A.S.C. Brother Reg, formerly
in the Victorian Forestry Department, is
in France with the Artillery.
In a recent Cornhill there’s a pathetic
fragment by i.ady Poore. It is written
round her own grief—the only son who was
killed in France a while ago. Her first
desire to keep everything that belonged to
the dead idol was crushed. The pilgrimage
to a home for incapacitated soldiers and the
gift of his personal belongings to those who
needed them is told in a crisp monologue.
Molly, a daughter of the E. A. Gaden
family, was wed in some local splendor at
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, a week or so ago.
The invariable dawn-pink blush of silk
showed under the gossamer top-layer of
foamy lace. The ’groom—almost forgotten
in the trail of so much feminine finery, two
small bridesmaids being only second to bride
Molly in beauteous array—was Jack Kitchen.
He scattered diamonds as largesse to the
young ladtes-in-waiting.
So pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith-
now on the other side —is wed at last. The
lady hails from Jamaica and is said to be
rich.
The Belgian singer, Lillianne Lore, has
been wrestling under blankets with laryn-
gitis. The nuisance having abated, she goes
to Melbourne tins week. Later she hopes to
take a healed throat to Melba—if she can
persuade the Skylark to give her some les-
sons. The attractive Lillianne needs the
Melba fire to warm her pearly voice.
From one of the boys w T e said good-bye to
a year ago:—
The Law is driving another brilliant Australian
writer (in this case myself) to drink. We are on
the Araby side of the Canal, and water and feed
are scarce. So we (myself and the Gent. One)
journeyed to the French Club at Ismalia for a bath
and a square feed. Gent. One, like myself, knows
just enough French to make the average Frenchman
wonder what it’s all about. It worked moderately
well on a storekeeper who sold us mosquito net, so
he tried it on the waiter at the Club. Butter isn’t
on the Army ration, and we were out to do ourselves
well. So we called up the garoon. “Beurre,
please,” quoth Six and Eight. “Ess,” and away
sailed Garpon. We had visions of butter all over
our face and ears. Then Garmon blew in again
and dumped a bottle of beer in front of us and
said, “Five piastres, please.” I paid the five
piastres, but —well, it was a hot night, so we
called it square and rode back to camp in a gharry.
We’re learning Scotch now.
Sculptor Wright, the young Scotchman
who enlisted for service, is finishing his
training in the Dubbo district. In the inter-
vals he has secured Jean, eldest daughter
of the Bob Andersons, of Lindfield. The en-
gagement is just leaking out, though Mother
knew all about it a while ago. Father is
the strenuous Robert McCheyne Anderson —
nearly everybody will persist in miscalling
him McAnderson —who went to Egypt as
quartermaster and lately moved on with the
staff to London.
Harry Gullett goes for three weeks to the
Tivoli circuit to talk about Francois in his
great stand against the Hun. After that,
khaki.
That daintv old lady Mrs. James Gil-
hooley has left us after a severe bout of
pneumonia. The light flickered, burned
brightly for a day or two, then went out.
Widow of a former Sydney doctor, and
mother of several married sons and daugh-
ters, Mrs. Gilhooley’s death puts the
Hughes and the J. Lane Mullins families
into mourning. She had been educated in
Brussels, and had many endearing memories
of Belgium.
The National Council of Women sits in
conference at the Girls’ Exhibition in Sep-
tember. It’s to be a heavyweight affair —
“Women’s Work in War Time.”
The large and affable Mrs. Henry Dobson
is hobnobbing with our National Council
dames over the festive bun. The visitor pre-
sides over the feminine parliament in Tas-
mania, and took part in the last Inter-
national corrobiree in Europe. Unfortu-
nately, the International mischief-maker Wil-
helm got into business soon after the ladies
had decided to abolish war.
Incredible but apparently true. A Gram-
mar School master, C. H. Northcott, is
taking his wife on a three years’ tour of
Britain and the Continent. The trippers
leave here in August.
Good-looking Lieut. Nelson Baldry claims
a promise from Annie Mabel, the eldest
daughter of Kenneth Mackay, M.L.C., of
Wallandoon. The engagement is beset with
the usual war-time anxieties, as the soldier
will be kissing his nice girl “good-bye” very
soon.
The Soldiers’ Entertainment Committee
sat on the Queen Victoria Club settees the
other afternoon. Mrs. G. Earp, in the
chair, inquired the views of those prepared
to help the coming Cafe Chantant for the
Fund. Mrs. A. J. Brady, Mrs. Roth and
BUSR, HEADQUARTERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
FLYING CORPS, ON SERVICE IN MESO-
POTAMIA.
actor Bentley threw out feelers re hat-
trimming competitions. Julius Superbus is
expected to add to a reputation he has
already made for knitting socks by showing
Us how to toss sixpenn’orth of chiffon so
as to make it worth a guinea. Hon. Sec.
Derkenne took notes with unabated vigor.
Still the Anglo-Australian interchange of
hearts-. This time Major Jack Hamilton,
A.5.C.,. plucks an English rose. She is
Berkshire girl, Mabel Kinderslev of w.
ringdon. The Sydney Mn is 'a Vrf
Judge Hamilton, and went off i n Sfur?
ot the motor-transport section which S
wards got mislaid in England.
Surgeon-Captain Ratcliff, of the Am
lory, now in France, formerly of tW i 1"
let, has put the usual question (atteE
by a diamond ring) to a lass from Brim
sltton! S ' ) - H “ “ ame is °°«««
. A Strathfield girl, Iris Keep, was married
m Bombay a few weeks ago. The fin
was Roy Scott, a son of the late a®
Arthur Scott, Accountant-General at thl
India office. cne
Hon. Sec. Sara Nesbit, of the local Silk
Culture Society has gone where moths do
not corrupt. After a long illness the release
came as a mercy. Daughter of a forme?
parson who enlightened the heathen n
Pacific Isles Miss Nesbit, till she w
stricken with serious ill-health, was ardent
in her devotion to the repulsive little cate"
pillar. In 1914 she mothered a consignment
of cocoons which came through Trade f'Z
missioner Suttor from Japan. The W eatW
being hot, the little beasts were hatched be
fore their official birthday; and when the
astounded hon. sec. went into the Uhls’
Realm office to see the egg boxes, she was
met on the stairs by an innumerable nro
cession of worms. 1 ’
Capt. A. Lloyd, Assistant Embarkation
Officer, has given a favorable hearine to «
request for daughter Enid. Lieut Boll!
Williams 12th 1.. H only son of Mr?*
p • Oiecd, produced the engagement-rim-
forthwith He is one of the invalided
heroes who saw Gallipoli.
Two Russian musicians arrived last week
with more pomp than has been usual since
Europe caught fire. Wild rumors were
heard that they were attended by a retinue
of colored servants (whether brown min-
or biscuit-color, I don’t know) and ’a herd
of motors. The stories were probably exag-
gerated. Alfred Miroviteh (piano) and
Michael I lastro (violin) are the twain
1 hey ve been scooping up money in that
tropic belt vaguely described as “The East.”
The late Dr. Russell Nolan’s eldest son
ALorven, now wearing a lieutenant’s rig-out
recently married Doris, a daughter of the
Allan McGuires, of this city. The soldier
wears the name Kelynack next to Nolan as
a compliment to a grandpa, Dr. Kelvnack
the old-time Methody orator. The* cake
was cut at the Wentworth.
The new blouses, as you may have
noticed, are a cross between frilled dressing
jackets and old-fashioned sac-coaters. They
bulge at the waist and are caped like the
old Sam Weller Sunday top-coat. And the
cockade in this winter’s millinery helps the
four-in-hand effect.
The. concert auction is not defunct. It
lifted its head at a recent French effort, and
a cheque for £6O or so goes to wounded
Francois in consequence.
The A.S.C. ladies foregathered in their big
barn in Barrack-street to pour out tea for
returned men of their corps. The air was
thick with ’baccy smoke, mixed with inter-
mittent music from an orchestra in a
corner.. Captain Lloyd, who put on weight
after his Gallipoli damages, was surrounded
by younger warriors. He’s back after a
big tussle for health in an English hospital,
and the boys wanted to know all about it.
Amongst the Lady Helps were dark-eyed
Hilda Caro, Lottie Gilbert and Ailsa Craig.
The Domain Buffet for soldiers did not
open on Saturday afternoon. Its turnstile
was merely ajar for the committee dames
and subscribers. As the aforesaid had not
mentioned in clarion tones that the affair
was a muffled song of thanksgiving on its
own, a few 7 strays from the press wandered
in. They were pecked at for this presump-
tion by a feathered sentinel later on. Mean-
while the non-elect had a brief glimpse of
the premises. Electric bulbs garlanded a small
triangle of yellow' grass. Here an unlovely
w 7 ooden barn —an eyesore near the inner
Domain gates—is misnamed “a kiosk.” Why
something more in keeping w'ith the leafy
surroundings hasn’t been hatched after
months of incubation, who can say? No
lady help will be able to break a buffet by-
law' and leap the counter —it’s too high a
hurdle. Retiring from this sacred patch
oue saw' in the outer fortress the dull
notice : “Ladies not admitted.” It explained
everything.
The military nurse’s uniform has given
the cape a fresh impetus. It’s an unhandy
garment that flaps like sailcloth in windy
W'eather. The lining is, in consequence,
well advertised, and is usually check in
major or minor patterns. I saw 7 a girl in
a brow'n cloth cape costume the other day,
and it was so up-to-date that it looked like
the illustration of a Trollope story. Every-
thing that isn’t mid-Victorian just now is
supposed to be Arkaie.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


* CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.- : At the War.
* ■ d'\ |
*>?/> <£/ AW. /• JP /-.<•' 'rVj -• .'- AV . Vf
Mta ,-
.., ,- -
.vv ,/ > 4?A* <&?',•s/'>■
*uy /i"/.
m
//////
Wk
Xv
if S F
'.'Vwi
Slil?
■***s?-
¥
SL+?*K‘-
%3®g£W<-,
v^V
z/z
spt lfe %
\m
ifiv '-v«
; - ?
V>
l :•'.
: :,>C
•>,f i>
fyMi
dm
r-*v;
w , t M
w
>m
'pis. b%
LAiMfej
dA\.
.
wm
:-yr.¥iWi
Mki
,;?* -fV'r ■'•'*■•''
m.
&
,d§m
'* yf x ..*?
' V*'!’.• ’’7■ ‘,; __. Qft'tl Sl^^yppi
■—wy-.'asg; oi«f>i»sw^waa«gaiF~
- jP F '“v *S KwA \
, .f«5
\;->-v . ••; ■■ i
iVSi?SS:>
* <, ' >y ’ ■ (r
I »Nl £>3 >-
Cobra,” Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Round the Mediterranean
Blue,
Looks for stocks of
Hun benzine,
Waiting for some
Submarine.
You should hear
The smugglers shout
o o
When the “COBRA”
Crew pops out
It is now the
“COBRA” boast
“We are cleaning
o
Up the coast! ’


A “BURBERRY "LASTS WELL
THIS feature iu a Raincoat must be remembered
when purchasing, for our Australian Winter is full
of warmer days than the season implies. Hot
sunrays perish ordinary macintoshes, but the qualities
of Raincoats that we purchase from Burberry’s are
weather-resistant to the last degree.
The quality of this Overcoat at 90/- is superb. It is
light in weight, allows of healthy ventilation, is cut
distinctively, has full skirt, is thoroughly waterproofed in
both material and seaming, and with ordinary wear will
remain serviceable for years.
Price 90/-
Carriage Paid to any
Australian Address.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
Pitt, Market and
George Streets.
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, hooks and
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment is
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener,
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper's
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, ( AuBtr aiasia),
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
■
m
4
XL
DUNLOP
CYCLETVRES
as Have no Equal for
QUALITY and WEAR
Use “ Dunlops” and avoid trouble
Only Genuine when they
bear this Trade Mark W
OBTAINABLE ALL AGENTS
BUNLOP RUBBER CO. AU Sui*. ud Ni
€)<
Every Man will Appreciate
the comfort and wear that
is embodied in our special
DUNLOP
POLICE HEELS
They are extra thick and of
the finest quality Cost a tew
more pence, and are worth
it A trial will convince you
that they are unequalled for
service. They are branded
“Dunlop Police Heel.’’
ALL LEADING STORES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., flit STATES l H.Z.
mu
DUNLOP
MOTORCYCLE
-are easily the...
STRONGEST and
BEST WEARING
in Australasia.
/ STOCKED IN STUDDED,
/“HEAVY” STUDDED,
GROOVED & RIBBED Patterns
Obtainable all Agents.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
sjr
All the
leading Mines
and Workshops
In this Country use
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
GOODS -
Experience having proved that our Conveyor
Beits, Hoses, Packings, etc., have no
equal for Quality and Price.
Samples & Tenders Submitted.
Lists on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
Melbourne, Sydney.
Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane
Wellington. Christchurd^
DUNLOP KELLn
50LID RUBBER-
I© ••
/ . IMC
VEHICLE
TYRES
absorb all
noise and
vibration,
double the
life of your
vehicle, and
last for
years. Fit-
ted from
£5 and
upwards.
Pdcc List Posted
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All Stales
t)
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRE
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
satisfaction.
Obtainable all G “™f e ® , PS "
see you get “DUN LOPS.
DUNLOP RUBBER '
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 5, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Victoria League has engaged relays of
Governors for its show on Thursday and
Friday evenings at the Masonic Hall. The
Stanley pair will be present Friday night,
and the G.-G. and Lady Helen will sustain
it on Thursday. There will be patriotic
tableaux, soul-stirring music, and Florrie
Finn will stand in the spotlight and recite
real blood-boilers.
The new Dental Hospital was opened at
the Base on Thursday last by Mrs. Pearce.
Colonel Cuscaden, tall and fair, introduced
the little lady with some honeyed remarks
about the wav she had helped in hospital
matters. The doer of good deeds wore a
smile and a cute khaki coat and skirt, and
made a mild joke or two in reply. Major
“Bill” Aitken, commander of all the military
teeth in Victoria, was in attendance. He is
thankful for new accommodation at the Base,
for his Collins street rooms were getting too
small to hold the army. Major Hall, with
the red of the staff-officer on his collar, was
present with his wife. She looked the sweet-
est little dream in seal furs. (P.S. —Marry
a dentist if you like furs.) Becky Mac-
donald, a tireless patriot from Ballarat, came
to the subsequent tea-party. Matron Corn-
wall invited the tall poppies into the nurses’
sitting-room—presumably to get them away
from the beautiful but rather gruesome tooth
machinery. The Red Cross has just fitted
up a private sitting-room for the Base
nurses, who at first had to retire to bed to
escape from their workaday surroundings.
Now they have a snugly-furnished room with
windows hung with fisher-net curtains.
Squatter Percy Elwortliy, of Gordon’s
Valley, South Canterbury (M.L.), carted the
family nursery to London, where he got to be
a lieutenant in the Life Guards. With them
he went on to France, and is now in an
infantry regiment, as cavalry aren’t wanted
at present. Mrs. Percy was the youngest
Miss Julius, one of the Bishop’s many misses.
Another daughter, the only unmarried one,
Ada Julius, is a nurse, and does her bit, too,
at the far side. Bishop Julius used to belong
to Ballarat in his early church days, and he
still supports a motor-bike and temperance
ideas in Canterbury. The eldest Julius
daughter, Ethel, annexed Bishop Wilson, one
time of Melanesia, and two others married
Elwortliy brothers.
Floris Levy, who has a handsome record
as an entertainer of soldiers in camp, has
been given six months’ leave of absence from
her job in the Home Affairs Department,
without pay, to organise a little league for
providing home-photographs to send to sol-
diers and sailors abroad. The sailor-lad’s
missus who wants to post Jack a picture of
the new baby, born after Jack went to sea,
asks the League to send a snapshotter along.
The picture is taken and copies are given
to Mrs. Jack, who then spends a penny in
mailing ’em to dad. Amateur kodakers are
now at work in considerable numbers ; and
in some cases where a helper isn’t skilled
himself, he has told the League that he will
pay a professional to attend to his share
of the job. It is a kindly scheme, and the
fact that it is being pushed by the energetic
Floris Levy should guarantee its' success.
The Lesley Madden patriotic performance
of “Green Stockings” was such a financial
success that another performance is sig-
nalled for June 24. By that time the more
stage-frighted of the amateurs will have
learned to talk alone, without leaning on the
prompter.
Mrs. Alfred Deakin has a pitch just
inside the gates of the Base Hospital, where
she feeds hungry soldiers and listens to the
woes and worries of others who thirst only
for sympathy. Many energetic women
come to help her; but they find no com-
mittee, no board, no hon. sec., no minute
book —all the old familiar machinery that
provides the breakdowns and rows is absent.
The Merton Hall school friends of
daughter Vera Deakin also arrive in enthu-
siastic batches and cut sandwiches, serve
tea, or knit. Mrs. Norris is a constant help
and Mrs. Ambler steams into the battle
frequently. The quiet little widow of a
Judge is always working in a corner,
wrapped in a lovely white linen apron—
the kind with detachable cuff-sleeves, like
grandmother used to wear in the mornings.
There is a cosy little office in which one
can talk weightily, cupboards full of cigar-
ettes and stationery, and clothes-presses
crammed with thoroughly-renovated left-off
clothes sent in by men who own many gar-
ments. Some of the discharged soldiers
have very little to stand up in when the
khaki has gone. There is quite a fitting-
room where the ex-warrior tries on his
civilian garb and looks at himself in the
glass. The depot is solidly financial.
Generous folk who are not looking for pub-
licity send regular contributions and keep
the racks filled with the right things. Still
ir you’ve got some serviceable clothes your
husband or brother doesn’t want, I dare
say Mrs. Deakin can find a use for them.
The Queen Mary, which was concerned in
the sea battle last week, has or lately had
as commander Willie James, the original of
“Bubbles.” The model’s mother and artist
John Millais’s mother were sisters, and
squatter John Gray, of Kentucky, Corowa, is
their brother. Not so long ago James
annexed the affections of a daughter of
Admiral Duff. In the good-while-ago he was
a sub. on our naval station.
The Alliance Franqaise has raised steam
again, and there will be a party on Thurs-
day evening, with some Paths Frferes mov-
ing-pictures of the French battle-line. The
Alliance Franqaise is also backing up a
concert organised by Ethel Wigg for the
French Red Cross. This show will occur
in the Independent Hall on June 14. And,
hold on a minute! Your help is implored
for two efforts on June 9 and 15 for further
funds for the Red Cross. The secretary
will see you installed as one of a sub-
committee if you want to help. Lastly, the
literary public is delicately reminded
that for half a guinea a year it can
have the use of the whole French library
(a valuable collection), besides entree to
four or five soirSes of music, literature and
coffee. Remember Verdun and help.
The first performance given in the Reper-
tory Playhouse will aid the French Red
Cross. “Man and Superman” is the job, and
June 10 is the date. The vice-regals are
all interested, and if you take a dog and a
lantern you will probably find the Gaud
Mayor and his lady in the front seats. Melba
is helping enthusiastically, and Tommy
Cochran, the honorary secretary, is rush-
ing about wearing his most intense look and
a perfectly lovely winter hat. Gregan
McMahon, Syd Mannering, Norman Carter
and Isabel Hindley are stars in the cast, and
prices are five, four, three and two.
Eric Dalrymple, dabbler in black-and-
white before the war, has made a name for
himself in the air by bringing down a Fok-
ker in the British lines. His people grow
sheep over your side.
The Argus Spowers, of Toorak, are mod-
estly proud of only son Alan, who hurried
away from Geelong Grammar to the French
trenches late last year. Now he has been
recommended for the Military Cross.
“Babs” Eddington last week left Melbourne
by boat to get married. Naval Surgeon Carr
is the bridegroom in view. Miss Eddington
is under the wing of Mrs. Brunell, whose
hubby is brother practitioner with the bride-
groom-elect on the same thunder ship. A
medical Altmann daughter goes along for
bridesmaid purposes. When the grey boat
again gets up steam the bride will trek back
to the parental humpy at Toorak, there to
await the return of her husband. Gertrude
Rennie dealt out farewell tea and buns at
the Quamby Club on Sunday afternoon to the
prospective bride and a crowd of friends.
Tom, elder hope of the Western District
Millears and captain of Melbourne Gram-
mar, has waved farewell to his school
chums and put on a private’s uniform. He
is anxious only to do his bit and is not
worrying about stars. His pal, Fritz Gale,
who stroked the Melbourne Grammar crew
to victory, has also exchanged his oar for
a rifle. On Thursday last his father —
Assistant Clerk of Parliament —give a mid-
day feed to the victors and headmaster
Franklin, at Parliament House.
Pianist Rita Hope has a matrimonial
engagement with Percy Shier, son of the late
Patrick Shier, of Kew, and Mrs. Shier, of
the Sydney hill-suburb of Roseville.
Gerald E. Griffin, the Irish actor-vocalist,
intends taking an Australian wife away
with him. She is pretty Myra Tribolet, of
Newcastle, who had a short stage career
as Kathleen Burke.
Lately-wed Mrs. Clive Gaunt has for-
saken thfe highly-colored attractions of
goon—where her husband is practising law 1 "
with the assistance of English, Burmese
and pidgin—and is paying a visit to home
and mother at South Yarra.
The ,Ormond Club had its annual tea-and-
tattling at the John Gillespies, forsaking
the chilly chasteness of the Melba Hall. A
good many years ago the ladylike little con-
cern was founded by the students of the Uni.
Conservatorium (mostly women then, as
now), to provide for the entertainment of
notabilities from other parts, the pursuit of
simple, social delights and the installation of
facilities for boiling the midday sandwich ; so
now you know all about it. On Saturday
there was no music, of course—no one would
dare, with everybody in the room both a
critic and an exponent. The Con. was
represented by one male, Sutton Crow, who
watches the affairs of the music-school on
days when the Ormond Professor is wrest-
ling with his artistic soul. The Gillespie
girl was chosen during the afternoon to fill
the presidential chair for the year, and she
is plump enough to do it very nicely, thank
you.
Some days ago our Herald displayed on
its front page a real peach-crop. It was
a group of the medallion team of the Rich-
mond Girls’ Life Saving Club, and the fas-
cinating costume of the damsels, combined
with their exceptional peachiness, completely
won the susceptible heart of the public.
Ever since the girls have been receiving
heavy mails, containing love letters and pro-
posals of marriage. In few' cases are the
writers anonymous. Many of them are sol-
diers, their correspondence bearing the head-
ing of the Y.M.C.A. or the Methodist Sol-
diers’ Institute. There is methouism in
their madness, sure enciugh. One swam
offers to come from Fitzroy to Richmond,
and suggests a local butcher’s shop as a
convenient meeting-place. “I am clean-
shaved and wall smoke a cigar, so as you will
know me,” he says. The heart-breakers
meet on Tuesday evenings at their gym-
nasium, and each reads aloud her corres-
pondence of the week. There isn’t one of
’em who would change jobs at this moment
with the president of the Women’s National
League.
The Birthday meeting at Flemington on
Saturday was crowded. It is usually a
cheery event, and the faithful squattocrats
come down from their strongholds to make it
gayer with theatres, dinners, the best limou-
sine and a dozen pairs of new white shoulder-
length gloves for the wife and girls. This
winter the war has dulled the spree a little,
and on Saturday the first news of the big
naval battle made a lot of people want to
go home. Civilian racing men looked glum,
and the soldiers, who always swarm out to
a race meeting, went along solemnly. One
cheerful note in the crowd was I)r. Maloney,
wearing a bright blue tie, a broad smile and
a prominent waistcoat. He did the lawn
arm in arm with a crony, and his moustachios
were waxed out to needle-points. The vice-
regals resolutely stayed away and the pen
yawned like a mine-crater.
There was a bleak wind, and most of the
women wore red roses, though one sported
blue. Fur coats were everywhere. _ Mrs.
Reynolds’s real seal wobbled richly with the
weight of wide fox-skin trimmings. The
mere rabbit pelts looked at it with envy in
their eyes. Mrs. Manifold rose tall and
brisk out of a sable coat. Two white tails
perched aloft on her silk belltopper hat,
which is the latest fashion-madness. Mrs.
McEvoy’s silk-blocked hat was wide-brimmed
and buckled ; with it she wore an expensive
dressing-gown in pale putty cloth, with a
fur edge. Other matrons with less elegant
figures walked in the fashionable dressing
sacque anxiously and without success. The
McLaughlan girl sported a tartan hat that
almost called for the pipes. Some of
those who had motored down were
a bit battered. One traveller in ermine
had the heron-plume in her hat fall-
ing dejectedly over one ear. The bathing-
cap style of motor headgear was worn
frequently. One woman in a snuff-and-
white check suit had an oiled-silk cap that
matched her husband’s mack. Miss Austin
wore an ultra-fashionable hat of purple that
resembled a small mat. Mrs. Cabena sup-
ported one of the same shade ; it was like a
wave.
Melba appeared at Selinsky’s second con-
cert wearing black and looking about 30
years old. A party of seven women accom-
panied her and one lone man danced attend-
ance —the debonair Tommy Cochran. Selin-
sky played exquisitely and Melba lifted both
arms and applauded in the most public manner
possible. Selinsky nearly fainted with de-
light, and implored her over the edge of the
platform to name the encore. Miss Treweek
brightened the concert with song and a
startling cerise frock with some pale blue
fixings. Also, she daringly trilled the Jewel
Song from “Faust” to the lady who has
practically made it her dwn.
Amateur theatrical circles will be inter-
ested to hear that Florrie Matthews has
met her fate in England. Florrie was asso-
ciated with Mrs. Maurice Dudley and others
ih a' prize-winning performance of “Sun-
set,” which they played a hundred times in
one hall and another, town and country. A
bright and festive little amateur was the
Matthews girl in the days when she
dreamed of stage triumphs in Melbourne.
She came of an English theatrical family,
and at last she tripped off to London and
got “placed.” A while ago she arrived at the
position of lurid heroine in a blood-and-
thunder drama, and then came the cabled
word of her marriage to Fred Duprez, a
music-hall artist of some importance.
Dorothy Gard’ner, the youthful Maori-
lander who has been associated with the
Dandies (violet, green and other colors)
here and in Sydney, has joined the Fuller
circuit. She is putting on her own little
act at the music-halls, and will open in
it—“ The Merriuns”—at Wellington (M.L.)
this month. “A mosaic of mimicry, mirth
and music” is said to describe it. Miss
Kitty Cheakett and Cuthbert Ross are asso-
ciated with Miss Gard’ner in the playing
of her piece. Dorothy has already made
a little name as a pretty verse-writer, and
most of her Dandy-given solos were written
by herself. She scores as a comedienne f£
she can wink with her mouth, and one
eyebrow will say yes whilst the other u
saying no. 1S
The Victorian Artists are girding on tW
colored cardboard and kerosene-tin a rS
and preparing to do a pageant play mV] .
The spectacle is entitled “Advance Austm
lm,” and the artists are knocking at marT
gers’ doors to see which of the theatres has «
suitable date vacant. “Advance” was writ
ten for production in England, but the war
interfered. A mysterious-for-the-monient
Pnma donna is spoken about in whispers as
a probable starter. It puzzles me how
prima donna can bear to lose a whole week’s
advertising—but there it is. The executive
committee is an entire gallery of important
men Frank Clarke, A. F. Payne, Genera
Hughes, J. Henry Dang and Albert Austin
are just a few samples. The funds will be
divided among prominent patriotic moves
Hilda Grice and Helen Rennie are running hi
double harness as secretaries.
Governor Stanley has promised to pro
nounce the benediction at the show of war
cartoons by artists Dancey and Nuttall on
Friday, in the upper room of the Athenaeum.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born IS2O-
- going
strong.
(iH
JIM
i!
x - m
G
y
L
X
>VA
l
=SSA
rs
£
a
*N
)
%!
>IT
M
Xy
fe
Wv
/,.
N'
X
I
n
%
m
\
r.
r
1
>
/I
\\
i?
O
%
69
Q
'“TP*
H
0
s**
VO 1
tO
SCO
&u
A
AC | '
\
il
I ,|! (V
iiaiw
v \vt'
V v«/ (to Bookie'): “What price 'Johnnie Walker ?"
Bookie (looking wise): “Not laving it, Sik.”
B^J?" U ci it’s A houiile sere winner now they’ve let it in that kon-reeiixable
BOTTLE.”
For venerations "Johnnie Walter" Red Label has led the race, but now It is
lengths a head, and —still going strong.
Every drop in the non-refillable bottle is over to years old.
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD,
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch
Whisky Distillery, KILMARNOCN.


Catarrh
of Intestines
and
SR
1/3. 2/9, 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion reaches the lower
intestine without being altered by the acids
of the stomach. It exercises its soothing,
lubricating, anti-fermentative properties
throughout the entire digestive tract.
That is why it is so valuable in bowel
disorders. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, inflam-
mation, catarrh, ulceration. It restores
tone to all the digestive functions,
Angier s has proved its val e in manv
obscure digestive and bowel disorders'.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Angi ic>?l'fn 4 t' P ° Staee ' and mention this paper.
ANGIER chemical Co., Ltd., 7l Barrack Street, Sydney.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Part inson & Co. I.adies recommend them!
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
c°
•s
tfORRISs
IMPERIAL
°INTMEN*
CURES
Obtainable ’ll Chemicts and Stores
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
*
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PIERS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, RUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCURAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/(1 per box.
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand. London.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White
''Till's Opal Mfnes, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“11.W.5.”: When the Aurora Australis
looked on Tasmania for the second time this rear
on April 29, the wise men with the most whiskers
declared that when displays are so frequent good
rains and good crops are certain. There is also a local
superstition that on quiet nights you can hear a
very faint crackling or rustling from Aurora. But
perhaps it is the Flyspeck’s lOU moving in its
sleep.
“Moana”: In spite of the ink used by
“Montalex” (B. 25/11/’l5), “Bail Australian”
(B. 4/5/’l6), and many others, as to whether the
revolver •or the automatic pistol is the best pocket
weapon, the real point in favour of the latter has
been missed. This is that the automatic has more
shots in its locker. For getting in the first shot
first a self-cocking pistol is ahead of the Colt because
it has less mechanism. Then the modern weapon
scores in reloading. I have an eight-shot automatic
with three magazines. With one in the gun and
two filled in my pocket I have 24 shots on tap.
Changing an empty magazine for a full one can be
done so quickly that I’ll wager I can get off 24
aimed shots with my automatic while “Bad Aus-
tralian” is firing 12 from his pet Colt. That’s the
kind of thing that counts in a crowded disturbance
where the man with the last shot is the one that
remains alive to write a paragraph about it. In
the circumstances mentioned by “Bad Australian,”
if the whisky-poker were being played with guns
on the table alongside the cash, I would feel more
happy if my weapon were an automatic—with the
first cartridge in the barrel and the safety catch off.
In that condition the auto, shoots like a flash. The
probable result would be that “Bad Australian”
would wake up in Heaven full of lead.
* * * *
“Bill Bedsox”: “Bat” houses are fairly
cpmmon now in W.A., and many and varied are the
means adopted for weather-proofing them. About the
best method I have been introduced to is to face each
“bat” on one side with a quarter of an inch of
eeinent-and-sand concrete while they are in the
mould. Lay them with the cement facing outwards,
tuckpoint the joints, and the resulting wall is as
good as if built entirely of concrete.
**» ■ *
“Hay”: Knew a noted ox-conductor, who,
when he thought he had no other audience than his
bullocks, proceeded so quietly on his way that the
only sounds to be heard were the creaking of the
dray-wheels and the occasional cracking of his whip.
But when he approached any place where he might
expect appreciative listeners, then his eloquent adjura-
tions to his team brightened the hour even if there
had been a death in the family. But it wasn't always
the desire to show off and impress bystanders that
made the old-time bullock-driver get it off his chest.
When the overland telegraph-line was being hoisted
from Port Augusta to Port Darwin the pilots of the
teams hauling the poles had to urge' their animals over
long, dry stages, sometimes close on 90 miles from
water to water. Each load, taken such a distance
without water, meant three trips over the same
ground. One-third of the distance was covered with
a load on. Then the steers were driven back loose to
the point they started from for a drink; thence right-
about to pick up the load and on to the 60-mile point
where they were unyoked and driven on to the 90-mile
point for water ; then back for the load. Jobs of this
kind required some powerful stimulus to carry on,
and the resourceful Billjim of the time always had
the goods handy.
* * * *
“Montalex”: “Agricola’s” duck-shepherd-
ing hawk (B. 18/5/’l6) is a recognised shooter’s
friend in Vic. He is Falco melanogenys, and corres-
ponds precisely (bar color) with the peregrine of
the Northern Hemisphere. This falcon _ will not
strike at anything on the ground or on the water,
and the ducks know this, just as they know the
deadly certainty of his swipe at a bird on the wing.
Apparently very slow 7 of flight, as he sails in grace-
ful circles high in air, his dash at a quarry is
almost too swift for the eye to follqw, '"'and the
force of his stroke is astonishing. I onee picked up
a duck that had the head almost torn' from the
neck by the hind-talons that had first ripped tw r o
deep grooves along the back. About other haw 7 ks the
ducks don’t seem to trouble much.
FREE FROM RESPONSIBILITY.
BILL (returning thanks at the send-off
social) : “I Veil, ladies and gentlemen,
I’m not one of them that believes in
tear, but these Germans ’as gone and
started it going, so if they end up by
Stettin’ more’n they looked for, it won’t
be no good them blamin’ me.”
THE CROWNING MISERY.
KIND OLD GENT: “Well, my little man, what is the mattert”
SORROWING YOUTH: “ Boa —me farver's pinched fer killin’ a John — boo — an’ me muv-
ver’s (jot smallpox — ha-a — an’ I ain’t had no brekfus ’ — an’ — an”’
KIND OLD GENT: “Dear, dear, how dreadful!”
SORROWING YOUTH: “An’ I ain’t got no money to yo ter the pickshers.”
“Tiaki”: It was at an up-country foot-
ball match, and a stranger with the visiting team
was dark of skin and booted the ball with a 10-
horsepower punt. “Py korry,” said Huatahi, “he
te prurry Maori, t’at ferra, I pet te quit. Whuh-h-h!
T’at te ponser way te kick. Kia kaha, ehoa! You
te proke,” roared the admirer. After the match
Huatahi interviewed the wonder. “Ehoa! You te
Maori?” he inquired. “My mother was a Maori;
my father an Italian,” said the brunette bloke, who
was a Clerk in the city. Huatahi went back to a
group of pakehas. “I knew prurry well I right,”
he said. “His mutter he te Maori and his farder
te stallion. He te rangitira, right enuff.”
“Ch. V M.”: Re “Pick” on snake-bite (B.
11/5/’l6). It is certain that Fox and Morrissey
were immune to snakebite and became
so by gradual inoculation. Possibly
“Pick’' has overlooked the fact that Fox
died almost instantaneously of cobra-
bite in India. He (Fox) was immune
to the venom of Australian snakes only.
There is hardly any likelihood of suc-
cessful inoculation against all snake-
venom, as has been pointed out by
Prof. Martin, of the Lister Institute,
London, and Profs. Welsh and Chapman,
of Sydney. These men have given years
of patient research to the subject. The
venom of all species of snakes is essen-
tially different, and inoculation against
one species will not necessarily protect
against another. The enormous ob-
stacles in the way of a non-specific anti-
venom are therefore evident. Possibly
“Pick” has the supposed analogy of
anti-toxins in mind. But all true
diphtheria bacilli, say, are so much
alike that a standard anti-toxin is an
established fact. The trouble is we
can t all be Foxes or Morrisseys. Also
“Pick” is all at sea about Fox being
turned down by the medical profession.
He was a frequent, and welcome visitor
to the Pathological I)ept. of Sydney
Medical School when I was a student there. But
he had no practicable antidote. We were quite satis-
fied about that. He was simply immune—probably
without knowing-it.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: We will have to revise our
sentiments re the Australian half-castes. Many of
them have stepped up to the recruiting office intent
on landing the Hun one to go on with. From Con-
dah district (Vic.) I know six who have passed into
the lines and are now en route. Moreover, one of
them, an old Richmond footballer, is said to be the
best-proportioned man put through at the Hamilton
depot.
“Tropic”: Anybody got the strength of
the Sun Brotherhood on lvabakon Island, off New
Britain? The chief priest appears to be August
Engelhardt, a long-haired crank who has adopted
the lava-lava (waistcloth). With a partner be
owns a plantation on liabakon, which is one of the
Duke of -York group. He describes himself as an
author, and has invented a nut-eating cult. The
neophite who lives on cocoanut, said by Engelhardt
THE SHIRKER,
BENEDICT: “I hare never seen her without
her knitting since the war began. The
boys must be thankful for girls like
that.”
BACHELOR: “That’s what I thought—till I
found it was always the same sock.”
to be the divine fruit, for 12 months gets a bonus,
or a medal or some other reward. Last July the
prophet was among the Germans who were interned
at Rabaul, and was stuffed into a pair of trousersi
Though looked upon as a crank Engelhardt has the
reputation of being a shrewd man of business.
Probably he is, since* his hospitality runs to cham-
pagne. Incidentally, champagne does not go so well
with cocoa nut milk as cognac.
(Continued on page 24.)
MUSTERING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We saddled up at break of day
One dewy morn in spring,
Ere yet the drowsy birds began
To preen their plumes and sing;
How long ago it seems, old friend,
Since that glad mustering!
What hours of gold and hours of grey,
What days of grief and joy
Have dawned and died sincC we rode forth,
A bushman and a boy,
Across the ridge and down the track
That runs by Duckmaloi!
Across the creeks and tufted flats
We cantered knee to knee;
Though two we seemed, this much I know,
That we in truth were three;
For close beside with glowing face
llode one we did not see.
I mind the horse you rode that morn—-
His size and strength I mind —
For cunning, craft and cattle-work
His like ’twere hard to find.
I rode upon my iron-grey,
And Freedom on the wind.
We left the creeksides and the flats,
And as we, whistling, sped,
The pearly dawn was flushed, as when
A pallid cheek grows red
At some love-touch of burning lips,
Some word of wonder said.
Then gold—a river of new gold—•
Across the landscape ran ;
And down the dewy forest-aisles
The feathered choirs began
To sing their morning melodies
Beloved, of old, by Pan.
Then Silence fled the wakened world,
Her veil and garments rent,
And downcast, through the gladdened trees
A wounded queen she went;
While singing birds and laughing birds
Made golden merriment.
Then Jack the Jester spent himself
In jocund ecstasy,
And Meg the magpie, neat and trim,
Gave forth such melody,
Such liquid notes —they seemed to fall
Like dewdrops from the tree.
A breeze that had been gathering scents
Sprang up to greet the day ;
The dew had washed it clean and sweet
In gullies far away ;
Beneath its touch the sapling leaves
Broke into merry play.
The wild hops brushed against our knees,
The brown quail rose and whirred ;
Our. hoof strokes rang across the'morn
Till all the timber stirred
echoings that set at gaze
All feathered things and furred.
By ridge and creek, by slope and flat,
We cantered, stride for stride.
Beneath us lay the gleaming grass ;
About, the forest wide.
How could we be but merry folk
With Freedom at our side!
We chanced upon the cattle then,
A hundred head at feed ;
They heard our hoofs ; they tossed their horns,
For they were quick to heed.
We cracked our whips ; we shook our reins,
With Freedom in the lead. ~~
They galloped down the riverside;
We caught them at the bend ;
We headed them, and brought them round
Ere morn was at an end.
Ah, what a glorious day it was,
And what a ride, my friend!
At night, when all the town is still,
The narrow ways grow wide,
I dream of you and Duckmaloi,
And once again I ride,
A boy upon my iron-grey,
With Freedom at my side!
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


KEANS-i
ESSENCE
COUGH
MIXTURE
SAVES YOUR MONEY —DOES YOU GOOD.
The Great Money-
Saving Remedy for
Coughs, Colds eThroatT roubles
Costs 2/ —Makes 1 pint—equal to 12/-
worth of ordinary Cough Mixtures.
Nothing G/Ves Quicker Relief.
Mr. JOHN
Committee, and
W. DOYLE, Secretary of the Eight-hour and Labor Demonstration
President of the P.L.L. of N.S.W., writes: —
4^
HP
wSvraMla6o>:-: :
•S :
,1//?. JOZ/iV IV. DOYLE.
The Proprietor, HE AN’S ESSENCE.
Dear Sir, —It gives me much pleasure to
state that I have found your Essence an
exceptionally good remedy for colds.
Its moderate price and rapidity of action
should make a special appeal to workers
with families, who are frequently in doubt
as to the best and most reliable means of
curing coughs, colds and throat troubles.
In this respect it seems to me Head’s
Essence supplies a long-felt want in the
home.
Yours truly,
JOHN W. DOYLE.
From homes all over Australia, where colds,
whooping-cough and sore throats among the
children are constant sources of anxiety to
parents; from catarrh, asthma, and bronchitis
suffei'ers everywhere, and from public speakers
and singers whose talents have made their
names household words throughout the English-
speaking world, testimony is constantly being
received telling of the great good derived from
the use of the Cough Mixture, a pint of which is
so simply made by adding HEAN’S ESSENCE
to water and sweetening.
Users leave nothing more to be said about the medicinal value of HEAN’S
ESSENCE. Its money value is just as great. A pint is equal in volume to eight
eighteen-penny bottles of ordinary cough mixture. HEAN’S ESSENCE costs only
2/-, thus effecting a direct cash saving of 10/- on each bottle.
ANOTHER IMPORTANT MATTER, which every parent should note, is
the fact that HEAN’S ESSENCE contains no opium, laudanum (tincture of
opium), paregoric (camphorated tincture of opium), or other habit-forming drugs,
which do untold harm when used to any extent.
HEAN’S ESSENCE is obtainable from leading Chemists and Stores, or
direct by post from G. W. HEAN, Chemist (Wholesale Depot), 178
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, or Hean’s Pharmacy, Wanganui, N.Z.
SHEFFIELD TOOL
•••
FOR ALL - PURPOSES-
Engineers
Ultra Capital” and
Capital” High-speed
Twist Drills.
We
carry Large Stocks. In Sizes: “Ultra-Capital,”
Jin. to 2 7-1 Gin. ; “Capital,” £in. to 2m.
Contractors to the N.S.W. Govt.
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Circular Saws
Manufactured by Ilighly-skilled Workmen.
From Best Sheffield Crucible Cast-Steel
Plates,
Size 6in. dia. to 72in.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALTY.
,dA i i.f
6LOB£
rMOI X MjUU .5 TMOf % Nl*R*
£FFi
“ULTRA-CAPITAL” and
“NEW-CAPITAL” High-
Speed Steel.
NICKEL STEEL for Motor-
Car Work.
MINING STEEL, supplied
in Octagon, Heavy and
Cruciform Sections.
OCTAGON and HEXA-
GON HOLLOW DRILL
STEEL.
tfcADE MARK
SPECIALTIES:
“A \ E A GEE O N A
GLOBE” BRAND COAL
CUTTER STEEL.
II amme r s, Picks, Saws,
Files, etc.
CRUCIBLE CAST STEEL
for Tools of all descrip-
tions. . „ r __
bright drawn
STEEL, Round for Shaft-
ing, also Hexagon and
Square.
I
m
SH
—
Australian Officoit
CAWTAt,
373 Ksi't Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street Melbourne;
46 Boulder Boat KalgoorUe; CWI Street. FMNMhy
CAPITAL
LEVIATHAN
Riding Trousers
and Breeches —
You'll get more
comfort, wear and
general satisfaction
from these Ready-
to-wear Trousers
and Breeches than
any you’ve yet
worn.
ORDER BY POST.
Just state seat,
waist, and inside-
leg measurements.
WE PAY FREIGHT
to any part of
Australia.
Drill Riding
Trousers—
In Khaki or
Strongly made
Olive.
with
side straps
and loops
for belt ...
7/8
Leather Tweed
Riding Trousers
In Dark Greys; the
toughest of tough
materials. Made with
riveted buttons, Denim
pockets and
non-split seat
seam
10/6
mwmto
wmM §wmm
w/f/AA
u\UU 1
w »« n
m
\
v
WLM
\UL
g£-
wßm
*z
't
s
fU*4£|
, %T:
*«*.,- <K
Riding Breeches—
In Khaki Garbicord;
laced at knee and self
strapped. _
Best English IKih
make ,W,W
Riding Breeches-in Brown Cotton Saddle Twist.
Best English make, with deep self strappings. Buttoned or laced at knees; Fob
and Cross Pockets ; doubly stitched ; taped seams ; cut full for saddle comfort.
The material is hard-wearing and good for laundering. Sizes 3 to 7
13/6
Working Trousers—in Solid Worsted Effect Fabrics.
We recommend them to give long and satisfactory service
Also in a heavier weight and better quality
7/6 pair.
6/9
THE LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston 8 Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
10-inch
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
tc
A
*
10-inch
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
REGAL Monthly “No. 19” Supplement.
G7llB
J Casey on the ’Phone Talking by Michael Casey
I Casey’s Description of His Fight Talking by Michael Casey
07189
j The Swallows Edgar Donovan,
{ Florian’s Song Edgar Donovan,
Boy Soprano
Boy Soprano
G 7219
j I’m Glad My Boy Grew ijp to Be a Soldier .. Miss Dorothy Ward, Soprano
( Tommy’s Learning: French Miss Dorothy Ward, Soprano
G 7222
He’s a Credit to Ould Ireland Now
There Must Have Been a Woman There
Shaun Glenville, Comedian
Shaun Glenville, Comedian
G 7229
i Horae, Sweet Home Jessie Reev
I The Rosary Annie Re
es, Soprano
es, Soprano
G 7230
I Know of Two Bright Byes
I Hear You Calling Me
.. Sam Fitton, Tenor
.. Sam Fitton, Tenor
G 7231
William Thomas, Tenor
Stanley Kirkby, Baritone
| Mother Mine ...;
I When the (treat Day Comes
G 7232
j Some Day Your Voice Will Answer Thorpe Bates,
) Love Bells Thorpe Bates,
Baritone
Baritone
G 7233
Lead, Kindly Light (Sandon) Concertina Solo by Alexander
Abide With Me Concertina Solo by Alexander
Prince
Prince
wi
G 7235
( There’s a Syncopated .Man in the Moon (t. H. Elliott,The Chocolate-Colored Cooil
/ We’ll Have a Jubilee in My Old Kentucky Home ~ <» •» »
07243
j Light Cavalry Overture. Part 1 WjWitfate’s Temperance Prize Band
j Light Cavalry Overture. Part 2 Wingate’s Temperance Prize Band
G 7243
( Silver Cloud (An Indian Maiden's Song:) The Regal Orchestra
) L’Heure d’Amour Valse The Regal Orchestra
G 7244
) “Tina”
( “Tina”
Selection. Part 1 The Regal Orchestra
Selection. Part 2 The Regal Orchestra
Introducing-: Part I.—The Gondola and the Gal; Play to Me; I Come from Holland;
Billstickers’ Dance. Part 2.—1’1l Always Remember You ; Timbuctoo; Let Me Introduce
You to My Father; It’s Easy. .
G 7245
f A Battalion Church Parade on Active Service Descriptive
l The Bast Poqt—A Military Funeral .. Descriptive
G 7246
j The Boys of 6ood 01*1 London
( Comrades ’,..
Stanley Kirkby, Baritone
..Robin Janies, Baritone. and_ Chorus
G 7247
I’iney RUlge
Lovers’ Lane
Stanley Kirkby,
Stanley Kirkby,
Baritone
Baritone
G 7248
( Pack AIL Your Troubles in Your Old Kit Bag: Ramsey, Baritone!
) All the Boys in Khaki Get the Girls .......... V. w. Ramsey, Baritone
G 7249
There's a l&tg, Trail Duet by Herbert Stuart and
Just a Plain Silver Locket Stanley Kiri
Billy Burton
;by, Baritone
G 7255
\ Bad You Are, I Love You
j Dear Old Mother *
F. W. Ramsey, Baritone
F. W. Ramsey, Baritone
REGAL Special “JOY-LAND” Records
(Now on
Sale)
G 7250
C “Joyland” Selection
\ in 2 Parts ...
Regimental Band of II .M. Scots Guards
Introducing:
Song. Part
Part 1. —Our Own Dear Flag; Lantern Land; That Raggy Refrain; Tulip
2. —Swing Song; The Girl in Ninon; California; The Rig Brass Band.
CJ2SI
( The Tulip Song ..
{ The Swing Song .
~. Annie Kees, Soprano
William Thomas. Tenor
GT252
F. W. Ramsey. Baritone
... Annie Rees, Soprano
f When You Hear that Baggy Refrain
I California
G 7253
f Our Own Dear Flag
{ Lantern Land
Frederick Butler. Baritone
. Stanley Kirkby, Baritone
G 7254
f The Big Brass Band Stanley Kirkby, Baritone
{ i Love the Girl in Ninon I’\ W. Ramsey, Baritone
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Halting House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q.— King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. It. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street,
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Goi'ton, Ltd., 213 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


OIL MEAL
For Fattening Cows,
Calves and Steers.
Every farmer should increase the
milking capacity of his, herd and keep
his cattle in good condition by using
Meggitt Oil Meal.
Send for full particulars to
MEGGITT LTD., Oil Manufacturers,
PARRAMATTA, Sydney.
BISTO is a fine dry
powder which thickens,
colours and seasons
gravy, soups, stews,
meat puddings, etc. No
flour, salt or browning
is needed.
is
“ Everything
hut the meat.”
All Grocers. In Tins.
Made by CEREBOS, LTD.
A Wonderful
Offer—=
The boot here illustrated is one you know well by sight—the
boot worn by members of the Expeditionary Forces. We are mak-
ing them in thousands to the order of the Government, who have
an inspector to examine and pass every pair before delivery is taken.
Some pairs, when finished, fail to pass him—not for any fault that
really affects their wear or comfort, but for such minute defects as
one boot being as little as one-eighth of an inch higher at the back
than the other; one slug being out of place; or the heel not being
sufficiently even to pass the spirit-level test.
Nothing else is wrong with the rejects.
They’re SOLID LEATHER THROUGHOUT,
are built to withstand the toughest usage, to
give the MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF COM-
FORT TO THE WEARER, and are GUAR-
ANTEED to do so. '
WRITE NOW FOR A PAIR. They’re
ideal for country and other hard wear, and
for the money—l4/6, carriage paid—are
POSITIVELY THE GREATEST BOOT
VALUE EVER OFFERED.
Cd. Exchange must be added to Country
Cheques.
50 McKean Street, North Fitzroy, Victoria.
X
14(6
Carriage
Paid.
“Camp Horse”: Was somebody talking
about pubs? If he was let me squeeze in with a
record. In 78 Billy Richards built himself a wooden
pub on a bend of the Balonne (now Dirranbandi),
and has dealt out blue ruin without a break, transfer
or infringement of the law up to this year, although
population was scanty and the cheque man not too
numerous. Billy managed to rear a large family of
girls and two hoys (one in khaki), who are within
crow-call of the old spot. The railway lias made it
necessary to shift Hie license nearer in, hut the old
landmark on Iho river will he remembered by many
venerable whalers who are always sure of at least a
good feed and a pint of rum and absinthe.
“Trafalgar”: “Spraggs” (B. 27/4/TG)
reminds me that I once had a dad. He was a drover,
and often camped on the Haunted Hills (Vic.). He,
too, used to complain that the cattle invariably
broke at night, hut at no particular hour. “Blanky
wallabies and bleed in’ kangaroos,” he used to mur-
mur in his sleep. They were thick at that time
thereabouts.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Something was said‘once about
(lie place where the pelican breeds, lmt wherever it
is the experience down this way (Tas.) is that there
is something wrong with the breeding these days.
.Years ago you could see scores and hundreds of the
fowls any day at Blackman’s Bay and other places
on the East Coast. Now you can live there for
years and only see an odd bird.
* * i* *
“Werrimee”: A notorious egg-stealer is
kojurrie, the gohanna, or lace-lizard. He takes obser-
vations from a tall tree, and when no one is about he
sneaks into the fowlhouse and goes from box to box,
rising on his hind legs and peering into each. When
he finds some eggs he gets three parts into the box,
with a smile on his crocodile-like countenance, and
scoffs the lot, shells and all. When discovered he
scuttles at a good pace for the nearest tree, ascend-
ing quickly to a great height, and showing no little
cleverness in keeping out of view while doing so.
Bushmen shoot the kojurrie for its oil —a clear non-
sticky lubricant. The lizard is very tenacious of
life. The heart will heat for hours after the owner
has been handed the knock. It will even beat for
a considerable time after it has been taken out of
the body and cut in halves. At the beginning of
winter kojurrie buries himself deep in the ground
and remains there until the spring. The thick folds
of fat he retires with keep his strength up during
the period of hibernation. The female of the species
is a prolific egg-layer. She digs a small hole with
her strong claws in a sunny spot, and the eggs are
covered up and incubated by the warmth of the
ground.
FAVORITISM.
DAD “Oh. but you like Dr. Fames — he's such a kind man.”
PAT: “No, I don't like him a bit When mummy was sick he brought her a baby.
And he ain’t brought me nothin'.”
“E.11.H.”: Never mind “W.C.M.” (B.
27/4/’l6), who recommends Stockholm tar for
wounds in horses, but get the slack-lime and dust
it on fairly thick. I have used it and so have others,
with splendid results. Previous to receiving this
tip I applied Stockholm tar after speying or de-
horning cows, hut found it a blister.
“Eryander”: Tbe stopping-power of bul-
lets (“Condamine,” B. 18/5/’ 16) depends upon (1)
shape, (2) material, (3) velocity. The long, slender,
nickel-coated bullet of the -303, for instance, with
immense velocity and corresponding penetration, has
little stopping-power, because it does not give any-
thing approaching the general nerve-shock produced
by the large-calibre leaden bullet. The Martini bul-
let is a good stopper, because it is '450 calibre, is
not nickel-jacketed, and has a comparatively low
velocity. (Trajectory of the Martini at 1000-yards
range is 47 feet, as against the 22 of the Lee-Enfield.)
The leaden bullet, striking even a soft substance,
deforms and translates its forward energy into lateral
expansion, a similar effect being obtained with the
nickel-coated bullet only when the nose is either cut-
off or cupped. It is then, in fact, the dum-dum. It
is on account of its stopping-power that I have
always advocated the large-calibre revolver for house
defence, in preference to the automatic pistol. The
latter will send its bullet clean through a man’s body
without stopping his rush, whereas a ‘45 “bulldog,”
while possibly not inflicting a dangerous wound, will
almost certainly lay the assailant out. My further
contention that the automatic is dangerous in a house
was borne out the other day, when a Melbourne gun-
maker was killed by an automatic-fired bullet
deflected from a target in an upper part of the build-
ing. A revolver bullet would have lodged in the
intermediate floor.
“M. J.” : Tliis is what I call lamb-mark-
ing. One day in June, 1895, Ben Schutt, overseer
on Brookong, marked and tailed 9000-odd. He had the
help of one tailor, two ear-markers and 10 catchers.
Hazelwood, at Eurangeline station, under similar
conditions, got through 8000-odd. Another time
the latter performer worked off 5000-odd without
help at the rail. Hours about seven and lambs
drafted off. If you'll let me mention it I put
through at Mundiwa (1907) 1500-odd crossbred
lambs in 10 minutes under two hours. I marked
and tailed, and had nine catchers and two ear-
markers. The lambs were drafted off, too.
“F.N.T.”: When “Longy” found a
yabby in a lately-scooped tank (B. 18/5/’l6) and
wondered whence the beastie came, there being “no
other tank within a mile and the nearest creek
three miles away,” it doesn’t seem to have occurred
to him that the yabby simply walked there. A
yabby will sprint a mile in moist country for a
seat at a banquet; and there seems no reason
why he shouldn’t do the same thing for a change
of water. In the Dandenong Ranges I have seen
yabbies strolling across the road in a casual, easy
manner which suggested that they would find no
difficulty in doing five miles if it seemed good to
them.
“Pub”: Re pub names past and present.
Allow me to sort out the Dead Beat, the Last One
and the Happy Times. They blossom in Central
Queensland. The same district used to have the
Heaven’s Rest, which for good reasons was oftener
called the Devil’s Hurry-up. But what’s in a name?
The biggest take-down ever I met Outback was called
by one and all “the Saint.”
A PATRIOT.
PPOLITICIAN ( proudly addressing his constituents): "In all the thirty years of me
public life I 'are never taken a bribe that would in any way injure me country.”
(Cheers.)
“The Bush Parson”; There are some
queer homes in the bush, but the one that took the
cake was occupied years ago by a poor widow-
woman at Nugent (Tas.). After her husband died
she: lived and brought up her family in a hollow
log. There was no rent to pay, and no rates or
taxes; and, after all, there are worse places to
live in. Though the quarters were a bit cramped
they were dry and warm, and there weren’t any
draughts. Plenty of people have lived for awhile
some of them for years—in a hollow tree, but
as a rule they don’t try to make a family residence
of it. There’s this disadvantage that I think I
ought to mention to Tooralc and Darling Point: you
can’t have a fire in your bedroom.
“Growler”: As a many-years* resident of
the islands of Bass Strait, and as a student of the
habits of the sooty'petrel, commonly known as the
mutton bird, I utter an outcry against the remarks
of “Phillip” (B. 4/5/’10). Let me tell him that the
birds return each year to their own particular bur-
row, arriving on Sept. 20 in millions. Each couple
immediately commences housekeeping. After spend-
ing three weeks in setting the house in order they
leave, and do not return again until November 20,
on which date the one solitary egg is laid, not in
the burrow, as stated by “Phillip,” but on the sur-
face of the ground. It is dropped, in the “wee sma’
hours,” and rolled into the underground burrow be-
fore sunrise. The incubation takes exactly six weeks,
which period is divided into three shifts each of a
fortnight’s duration, the hen taking the first one,
hubby second and hen third. The mutton-bird industry
is controlled by Act of Parliament, and no one is per-
mitted to capture prior to March 20, the season ex-
tending from this date until May 20. As there is
not a solitary bird to be found on any of the rook-
eries on this latter date the season automatically
closes itself. From May 20 to Sept. 20 each year, no
one has ever been able to discover the residence of
the sooty petrel.
“North Q.”: “Barb” (B. 4/r>/\1(>) men-
tions that the Tassy bushmen spoke of “carfing” a
tree. I know that in many of the South Queensland
timber districts the word “carf” was invariably used
(not “scarf”), but the timber-getters did not employ
it in the way “Barb” docs. They never spoke of
“carting”, a tree when they meant chopping or saw-
ing it down. When referring to the cut made by
the axe or saw, they spoke of it as the “belly-cut”
or the “back-cut.” The opening or angle taken
out by the axe was the carf, but I never heard the
word used when referring to a saw cut. A greenhorn
axeman was usually advised to take more or a bigger
carf —that is, to open out his angle of cut. If an
axeman marked this angle on his tree before chop-
ping, as is ..usual at competitions, he would be
said to be carfing his tree.
“S.S. ’: The Maoriland Government,
having resolved to make a munificent weekly allow-
ance of 3s. 6d. to the little things that Billy Khaki
left behind him, Respectability is springing off its
tail and crying aloud about encouragement to im-
morality. I am reminded of a neighbor I once had.
He was a Presbyterian, too, and much better than
it is healthy for any mere human creature to be.
One day I heard unusual noises next door, and look-
ing through a crack in the fence discovered Mac
Burgoo sousing blind eatlets in a tub of water. As
he held the third under I heard him mutter: “I’ll
teach the creature to have kittens!”
* * * #
“D.F.”: Was that a tree at Forbes (B.
11/5/’l6) which split into 143 fence-posts or was
it merely a splinter off the vegetable? Over in
the Speck they seldom split really big trees for
posts, but I’ve known many a time more than 50
full-size (7ft. Gin.) posts to be knocked out of a
single round. How many you would get out of a
tree depended on the size of the splittable barrel,
but plenty of them would give you 10 rounds,
none much fewer than that, so that the posts
would run to about 500. As to sticks for wire-
fencing, you would get a whole lot more than that;
these were for post-and-rail or paling fences.
“Alopoke”: For years I have had black
■cockatoos under observation. They are numerous on
the red-gum flats adjoining the Sierra and Grampian
ranges in Victoria, where I have examined over 100
nests, and never have I known the two young chicks
to come to maturity. The birds choose high trees in
which to lay their brace of eggs, and when the
young are hatched both are fed until about half-
fledged ; then in every instance one dies. Anyhow,
that’s my experience during the past 20 years. The
principal food of the funereal cockatoo is a small
white grub found in certain decayed wood, and its
sense of hearing is so acute that it can locate the
provisions by listening for their boring operations
under the bark.
“Pick” : During last shearing the
Monaro (N.S.W.) sheepmen who had their barbcring
clone with the old-style blades struck a hitherto un-
known trouble, and are since clamoring for someone
to explain what it meant. Usually, among well-
conditioned flock's, from 5 to 10 per cent., after being
shorn, died from gangrene, arising, in the majority of
cases, from small shear-nicks not considered of suffi-
cient importance to require tarring. Similar cuts in
former seasons would heal in a couple of days, hut
this time they almost invariably resulted in abnormal
swelling, discoloration, a cheese-like consistency of
the flesh and subsequent death. Investigation makes
it appear that the mortality was, as a rule, traceable
to sheds wherein sheepskins or dead wool had been
stored.


•and now any woman can drive with
ease and comfort
style and safety
— l -^C)
Four Cylinder
Five Passenger
TOURING CAR
—She drives with EASE in this new
Studebaker * ? FOUR”, for at her very
finger tips is every lever of control. And
such CONTROL it is—flexibility of
power and quick acceleration that makes
her mistress of every situation, whether
speeding on open country roads or thread-
ing the way through crowded city traffic.
A car of beauty and style, too, is this
—trim of line—so graceful and hand-
some that men-folk fondly speak of it in
terms of the fairer sex. And of utmost
COMFORT, with cushions deep and soft,
and large resilient springs.
Numerous features make this the best car
for women drivers. The lengthened and
adjustable brake pedals give an increased
leverage suited to woman’s lighter weight
and lesser strength. The balance and
alignment are so perfect that two fingers
keep it to its path. The irreversible steer-
ing gear prevents the shock of ruts and
stones being felt by the driver.
This car’s lightness, compared with its
ample size, makes operation most ECO-
NOMICAL, at the same time increasing
ease, convenience and safety.
You can best appreciate this new STUDE-
BAKER by trying it yourself. A cordial in-
vitation is extended to inspect it, to test its
flexibility and control, to try its comfort.
V
v-
v
-
m
r
£
£
r/KT
W
j
«t < as /k
5R
<U
*
■is ; i
IP
0 9
V
pm
V^pJ
&
/^g
&
Hi
m
Iff
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
NEW SOUTH WALES (except Sydney)— CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD., Sydney.
VICTORIA -TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA-ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. d. RICHARDS &. SONS LIMITED, Adelaide.
TASMANIA-W. H. GAH AG AN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND -ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch.
General
Distributors -
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
177 Elizabeth St.
SYDNEY ,


HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
GOUGHS, GROUP AND COLDS.
THOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
“An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
f) /'>
ft
0
m
Ni
■
-.r
lit
isX IS
Kincsity ~ niTtt
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Brand! Offices at l
Sydney, n s.w.; Wellington, n.z.
Old Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis is still going
strong in England. During the winter
months she was touring with Courtneidge’s
“Light Blue” Co., and at Easter she was
doing her bit in the Shakspeare Festival per-
formances at Stratford-on-Avon. In Mel-
bourne for 25 years she ranked as a “has-
been,” a light of other days, a teacher who
was occasionally offered an engagement in a
J.C.W. production. Then she went to Lon-
don, resumed her original name of Rose
Edouin, and was hailed as an actress of
first-class style and quality in old-woman
parts. Which she cei'tainly is. ,
“8.J.”: Eleonora de Cisneros, the bulky
contralto who came here with Melba, was
lately in Chicago doing a vaudeville turn
which finished with Eleonora, dressed like
the lady on the Yankee dollar, waving the
neutral flag and singing “The Star-Spangled
Banner.” Everybody rose except General
Villa Stevens, critic of the Examiner, who
sat until the ditty was finished, and then
rushed off and wrote a furious notice in
which he observed that too many stage people
who have not got the real goods to deliver
“get there” by grabbing the banner and
singing the National Anthem. It sets the
crowd cheering, he wrote, and often hypno-
tises it into the belief that it is cheering the
performer. Eleonora is alleged to have
taken the rebuke to heart. She did not cut
out the offending part of her turn ; instead,
she prefaced the song with a speech in which
she mentioned that she was the daughter of
a soldier in the civil war and other details
likely to touch the great ’eart of the U.$.A.
“Up Stage” : They still cling to the bell-
ringer as the best medium of advertisement
in some country towns. While playing on
the fringe of the Castlereagh (N.S.W.) I
found the manager in forcible conversation
with some disarranged whiskers, who
claimed that he had been engaged to ring
the bell and impart the merits of our bush
drama up Main-street. Negotiations were
interrupted by some red hair and language
putting in a similar claim. “Ginger’s”
forensic talent was displayed to the best
advantage, so he got the job, Whiskers con-
tenting himself with spasmodic outbursts
as he followed the successful candidate
along the street. On a return visit Whis-
kers laconically explained Ginger’s absence.
“Oh, ’e’s joined the Salvation Army!”
“Doesn’t he follow his profession now?”
we asked. “Well, yer see, I’ve got him
bluffed. W’en ’e puts in for a job I’m after,
I tell ’im to get to or I’ll knock ’is
block orf. All ’e ses is, ‘Gawd bless
yer, brother!’.” He spat scornfully.
, a , re me da us,” he said, ‘“Gawd bless
yer sno good in business.”
U.K.”: How tame are the matinees of
bo Long, Letty,” compared with, say, an
afternoon at a Christmas panto! The
panto show is a hum of excited kiddies,
broken by shrieks of glee when somebody
tails down and pretends to get hurt. “Letty”
belongs to the order of things that should
never be approached in daylight. It is
an after-dinner entertainment. A mental
liqueur. Besides, the mutineers of nowa-
days in Melbourne are not initiated in the
art of Lettycism. They never warm to the
subject. Nothing gets an encore, conse-
quently the pink-and-gold ballet manoeuvres
that go with Connie Ediss’s song about the
Married Men are conspicuously missing. The
eight girls are the accompaniment to Con-
nie’s encore, and when there’s no encore
there’s no ballet.
I rivate Boxer” : Madden, C.J., voiced a
fairly-general sentiment the other day when,
apropos of the eternal Yankee picture-show
advertisement which had been handed up for
perusal in connection with a Bourke-street
trade squabble, he remarked that he won-
dered why, Australians having such a fine
language, there should be such a hunting-
up of Americanisms.
lie hoped that he was not too punctilious, but
why should fine English words be excluded to take
up American vulgarity?
There is talk about a picture censorship.
\\ hat aboilt. a Society for the Suppression of
Yankee \ ulgarity, not alone in connection
with film exhibition, but in every other
branch of Australian amusement?
“D.F.”: There still seems to be at least
the hope of money in the flicker business.
_E. J. Miller, who quit storekeeping to get
into the game, and went to U.S.A. to catch
the latest ideas, has just opened the Strand
Picture Theatre, which is bigger, if not
better, than any other in Ilobart. That
makes five houses regularly in the business,
while the Theatre Royal and the Temper-
ance Hall get the habit from time to time.
The Strand is just across the street from
His Majesty’s, Spencer’s show, so maybe
there won’t be much love lost between them.
The new place has also hit up the Empire,
another of its rivals, by coaxing away
Tommy Hopkins, who has run the orchestra
there for seven years, and various leading
local performers have moved with him.
“Ringmaster”: If horse-loving Australia
is short of a national sport-heroine, May
Martin Wirth is the girl for the pedestal—-
which should be the sleek grey horse she
travels on. A dress-circle view leaves me
almost as enthusiastic as the official pro-
gramme, which reads like a Wirth appre-
ciation of the pride of the family. When
May sits sideways in the limelight during
a restful interval, listening gravely to the
clowns’ patter and making sure her hair-
bow is secure, she looks the perfection of
athletic young womanhood. If small boys
still fall in love with circus queens as their
fathers and grandfathers did, I guess May
has done a lot of damage.
“F.N.” : By disinterested parties with the
correct shape of ear and soul, Emily Dyason
is believed to have the most masculine touch
of any woman-pianist now platforming in
Melbourne. As most of the truly great key-
pounders are men, this amounts to a
bouquet for the lady. A silver-spooned
daughter of the late mine-owning Dyason,
of Bendigo, she began burning the midnight
piano-candle in a really earnest manner
when a student at the Marshall Hall Con-
servatorium, in the old days when Melbourne
used to take its musical matters almost
seriously; and afterwards she lived the
ascetic, strenuous life during a “finishing”
period in Europe. These days her name is
Emily Dyason only on the concert pro-
gramme ; and the fact that she has another
name in the parlor and pantry partly
accounts for her failure to linger laurel-
gathering on the other side of the globe.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Isidore de Lara has
immortalised himself by organising 400 con-
certs for war funds. As one result of this
experience he says: “I find more originality
among the Colonial companies. They have
not been so influenced by the German school
as the British ones.” Apparently the most
striking “discovery” he made in the Four
Hundred was “at Lady Elliot’s the other
afternoon,” where he “heard a pretty Aus-
tralian girl, Sylvia de Gay, who plays the
violin with remarkable power and fresh-
ness.” Hereditary talent? I remember that
in Hudson’s “Surprise Party,” popular all
over Australia in the ’eighties, there was a
pair of charming ladies, Sylvia and Vera
de Gay; and Vera, I recall, played the
fiddle like an angel.
“Stargazer”: Nance O’Neil has returned
to Australia in picture form. She appears
in “The Kreutzer Sonata,” rather a more
coherent and certainly a more human play
than nine out of 10 fathered in Yankeeland.
Nance figures as an unfortunate Russian
girl whose husband goes gaily astray with
her sister, and who in film five is induced to
“do in” the pair of them with a gun. The
O’Neil comes right out of the picture in her
fine frenzy, and puts a stranglehold on your
emotions. I don’t remember anything quite
as live in the pictures. Nance herself looks
older and much thinner, but makes it evi-
dent she has lost none of her power to search
your depths when dealing with a meaty
theme.
“Hamer”: Gregan McMahon’s managerial
dodge of borrowing a ready-made mob from
the near-by Socialist Hall (B. 11/o/’IG)
when some rabble is wanted at his Reper-
tory Theatre looks perilous. It seems a
simple thing to send a score of men on to the
stage with a leader who knows the cues;
but they are likely to make a holy mess un-
less thev are rehearsed —and rehearsed well..
It is difficult to loiter naturally on the stage;
even the rehearsed super often looks more'
like a marionette than a live man. I re-
member one stage crowd that was hurriedly
assembled for the race scene in “The Flying-
Scud,” and was run on to represent race-
goers. It included genuine bookies, jockeys
and racing enthusiasts —sports the co. had
gathered round it. When time came the
leading characters were caught in a surging,
noisy crowd that was doing its —est to be
natural, and the villain had to shriek Ins
villainy from the backcloth because he
couldn’t get through the mob. And when
the jockey who had been hocussed by the
villain staggered on the stage the crowd in-
sisted on hoisting him shoulder-high as the
rider of the winner—and the race hadn t
been run yet! The curtain was dropped
amid the impromptu curses of the manage-
ment. They were much better curses than,
those written for the villain.
From London: —
Hall Caine’s latest is a one-acter called “The iron'.
Hand,” recently produced in London. The author
has taken “The Ballad of Splendid Silence,” boiled:
it into a play and moulded it on to the piesen
difficulty. The theme is the killing of the family
of a lieutenant before his eyes by a blood-slareriri,
Hun, to induce him to betray the hiding-place of
the Belgian King. Arthur Wontner, who was the
Duke of Winterset in Julius Knight’s first trip with
“Beaueaire,” fills the hero’s uniform. Fine old
actress Mary Rorke plays the hero’s mother, an is
among the slaughtered. Dion Boucicault was ie
sponsible for the production.
When “My Lady” was produced in Lon-
don the other night by Australia’s old hum ,
Bob Courtneidge, the fall of the curtain »
followed by a call for the author. Evideniti>
there was some reluctance to put the au <>
on public exhibition, but the yell became
imperative that the rag went up again, a
he was disclosed. In point of fact he nea .
filled the stage. There were two or t _
literary authors, the author of the lj _
the composers of the lyrics, the origw
musical author, the authors of several 3
not specified, and the author of the ; s -
For lack of room the authors of the wigs
and the silk tights were not included.
It’s a mad world, all right, when Charley
Chaplin can command an income of ili-J
a year. Chaplin, h.v the way, is a Britis i-
born subject of military age, but he has n
immediate intention of helping to squash t
Huns. lie started as a boy in the London
music-halls, one of the “Eight Lancas
Lads,” a smart clog-dancing combination.
Now he is making grimaces in the satetj <
the United States, but his “heart is with
dear old England,” and he is ‘ following the
war' with the keenest interest. To whicn.
in reply, “dear old England” might
Chaplin that hearts and interest, when tn
are laid on the altar of their country nom
the safe distance of U.S.A., don t cut < .
ice. What dear old England wants is men
who will keep their heart inside a kmisi
coat and follow the war with a gun.
“Oking” : I doubt whether Minnie Tittell
Brune appeared in the Canadian melo., -
Love Thief,” as stated in B. 27/4/ lb. i
saw the cast, and ’Tilda’s name was
there; but one G. Brune, described a •
Canadian actor,” was mentioned as playing ‘
part. Could it have been poor Clarence,
who trod the boards so fitfully while m -
tralia with his panting wife?
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Machete”: We are living just now by
the side of an Egyptian irrigation canal
which, tradition says, was digged by Joseph,
he of the coat of many colors. This canal
is crossed by a fei’ry, and when the ferry-
man discovered that military traffic was on
the nod he had a petition drawn up by a
graduate of Cairo University :—-
To His Excellency
Major Smith,
Of Ilassan Pasha.
Your obedient servant has the greatest to inform
you that I am the owner of the boat by which the
soldiers petrols cross the canal. Since the arrival
of the first camp I did not receive anything. The
boat is wearing off day by day and I do my best
to mend it in order that the soldiers may cross.
Your servant is very poor and this boat is the only
means to live. To-day the guiding rope was cut
of and I made my best working by the row that
the petrols might cross. I hope that you will be
so kind as to give orders and notice that I receive
mV wage.
Mohamed Khalileh
Hassan Pasha.
11 is Excellency the Major filled tbe hand of
the servant at his feet.
There was a land ballot at Napier (M.L.)
the other day and one of the applicants was
informed that as he was not a discharged
soldier h£ could not apply for a section.
Thereupon some of his cobbers got together
and received permission from a captain who
was visiting Napier to hold a sitting of the
Medical Board. The Board sat on the
warrior at 4.30 and certified that he was
not fit to resume dufs\ A discharge was
issued and the Gallipolean crawled out of
his uniform and presented the document to
the land-ballot bosses at 8 p.m. And now
the story ends properly. The man who had
done his hit won the section from 28
other applicants.
“F.N.T.”: Unless he pays a special rate,
the Victorian rabbit can’t travel as a pas-
senger—he must go by the slow and un-
certain “goods.” This partly accounts for the
fact that rabbit-meat is nowadays almost a
luxury in Melbourne. The bunny-crate,
closely-packed, is forwarded to the city in a
casual, deliberate manner at tbe buyer’s
risk, with the result that delayed consign-
ments are liable to come to hand with the
rabbits in a “sweaty”- condition, unfit for
fodder. One Melbourne buyer lately had a
ton of spoiled food carted out to the tip,
through this common happening. Some day
the Victorian Railway Department will
wake from its lethargy to discover that,
apart from its plain duty to do the best it
can for the community, it might cut some ot
its late revenue losses by providing up-to-
date refrigerating-cars and a proper goods
time-table. Private Enterprise in the U.S.A.
does this sort of thing and makes money by
it. There seems no reason why, with a de-
mand already existing for a modern “perish-
able” service, it shouldn’t also be payably
supplied by a railway-system with a State
Government behind it.
* * * *
Passed out lately in U.S.A., Harlow E.
Bundy, the inventor of the “clocks” which
bear his name, and which have done tiine-
keepei’s out of their jobs in most factories
and workshops through the world. The
introduction of “Bundies” was. at .first
fiei'cely resisted, and caused strikes innu-
merable ; but Harlow E. lived to see them in
practically universal use.
X * * *
“Counter Jumper”: O my countrymen,
your pockets are being picked! Before this
beautiful war, the good, church-going, motor-
owning country storekeeper was satisfied
with a respectable profit—say 3.3 to
50 per cent.; but the partial disloca-
tion of oversea trade has taught him
a new trick and he is playing it for all it is
worth. As we in Australia import so much
and are not familiar with a lot of the things
we do make here, the aproned Captain Kidd
boldly represents that everything comes
from foreign places at enormous expense
and claps on anything up to 500 per cent.
Lines that come from Paddington, Water-
loo, Footscray and Collingwood, but have
no “Made in Australia” on them for the
outsider’s guidance, are offered as foreign
stuff and sold at preposterous prices. Ned
Kelly wasn’t the most accomplished bush-
ranger Australia ever produced.
* * * *
The balance-sheet of the Vic. Women’s
Political Ass. Labor Bureau is a cheerful
document, which sets forth, among other
items, that, of its total receipts of £1550,
£915 came from the Government and £79
from sales of produce. On the other side,
wages came to £BIG and fares to £74. This
is the concern that runs the Mordialloc
farm, whence the supervisors lately brought
to notice an extra-fat pumpkin, a massive
marrow and a whale of a cucumber. The
fact that adjacent gardeners are at present
selling Turks and pumpkins at £1 per ton
possibly accounts for sales just about meet-
ing fai-es. These women gardeners have
still a bit to learn.
SMALL SINNERS ONLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The N.S.W. Railway Department has received 18
penny postage stamps, in lieu of railway fares not
paid for by “Scaler,” and 10 penny _ stamps for
fares not paid by “A Christian.” —Evening paper.
Only the small, cheap sinners
Can dream of Hell in the night,
After their small, cheap dinners —■
Dream and awake in a fright;
Vowing full restitution,
Regretting their small, mean tricks,
They forward a contribution
Of tenpence—or one-and-six.
Only the small, cheap sinners
Are conscious of God’s clear eye;
Of grace they are the winners—•
If tenpence God’s grace can buy.
Dives, hugging his money,
To Conscience yields not a cent;
It’s sad and true and funny
That only the poor repent.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
THE PLAGUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I took McDougal to the show —
He came from Scotland only lately.
We saw the comic-opera fay
Behaving in the usual way.
My friend McDougal liked it greatly,
And in the spell that split the show
We sat and watched the stalls below.
The long rows showed skulls white and red
Of portly gents, in evening habits,
And every head a bald, bald head.
Said Mac: “Eh, mon, I’ve often read
Aboot yer fearfu* plague of rabbits.
Yon mak’s it vena plain that ther.e’s
No great Australian plague of hairs!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


EFFICIENT!
BRILLIANT!
DURABLE!
British Made
in Rugby, England
DRAWN WIRE
Electriclamps
/
La
u
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—A gents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646, 2647; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch, full
jewelled movement, . compensation balance,
adjusted time spring, £2, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B, £lO. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Photo Ring,
sliowi ng cover
open, 25/*
Initials can. be
engraved on cover
when closed.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Solid
Gold Battalion
Color Ring,
any Battalion
color can be sup-
plied. Lady’s
size, 21 /-
Gent's size,
25/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and Plat-
inoid Brooch, set Diamonds and Olivine,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid 9ct. Gold Expanding Wrists
let Watch, full jewelled, Lever movement, £7/10/-,
15et. Gold, £l2/10/-. Similar styles, £3/10/-, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
Sydney’s Leading Jewelier.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Oval Cluster
Ring, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l2/107-
Set all Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set five
pure Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £5/10/
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Bracelet, set Pearls
and Amethyst, or red stones, 30/-
Send for Complete Illustrated Price List.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Brooch, set pure
double-cut Diamond, £5. Larger Diamond, £4 / ID/
£lO, £l5, £2O.
SAUNJOE
A
SYDNEY
w.
m
%
-
A. Saunders’ Wristlet Watch, with Military Regu-
lation Strap, Nickel or Gun-metal Case, full jewelled, Lever
movement, reliable timekeeper, 25/-. Superior grades,
30/- 35/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Gold filled,
£3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6, £O/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, sot three
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set five
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines, £2.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding Ring,
9ct., 10/-
15ct., 15/-
18ct. 20/-,
25/-, 30/-,
£2.
A. Saunders’ Gold
Anzac Brooch, set Pearls,
20/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding King,
9ct., 15/-
15ct., 25/-
18ct. £2,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
807-17 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid
Nickel Keyless Lever Watch,
full jewelled, with patent adjusted bal-
ance, non-magnetic time spring, dust- and
water-proof cases, 20/-. Higher grades,
25/-, 30/-. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Hand Clasp
Ring, 20/-,
25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
pure Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Oet. Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring, 15/-
15ct., 30/-
18ot. 35/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. «.*oid Wristlet Watch,
jewelled lever movement, reliable timekeeper, 20/-,
25/-, 30/-, £2, £2/10/-, £3. AH guaranteed.
(Opp. Railway Station.)
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
2216
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189-191 Qeorge Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietor*
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Mekrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
hook by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games', 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune -Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor. Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
M
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
Embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
Out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
!•“ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
Prof. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctois, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life;
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. iWF'Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CA>
BE GOT FROM THIS ADA T.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
remit in STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN p OST. NO DUW
any BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE S
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to «*»$;;
1/- posted. New Tricks " 1 ‘J 1 Car ’ ost pn.
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush bONG s, ,{.-actical illus-
Mii, ford's Midwife’s Handbook, p L a INl)s . u Gor-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. . ' palmistry,
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. PRA ®, T fi C Secret His-
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. feci
tory Court of England, ° 1/6> Mor-
Writer, 1/-. All About Incub -> „ p P grees,
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key Dictio xary.
New Edition, 1/3 posted Vest WobKS
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 pot. - Coa tes), l/ 6
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads po6 ted.
posted* Chevassf/s Advice to a y> '• ar-Boile rs
Bread and Biscuit Babbs ■mJ* "posted.
Assistant, 1/6. The Wipe s 1- 1 5/6 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works all at recita-
Fruits of Philosophy, is. post. 100JE AKD !
tions and Readings, 1/3. nervous , billdgE d
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster n, leather bound,
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 160 ’ n( j 4 guineas.),
my price 15/- post paid (why dynamos and
Bootmaking and l Universal Assist-
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moor nasres, cloth
ant ynd Complete Mechanic,
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secre r& ( words ‘ and music
l/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs ( Reason. W
PaTntposted'id. "wkltE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
g 69 Market Street, Sydney


George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—•
4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors ,have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per clay,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Some people brush their
teeth to keep them white,
some also to keep the mouth
clean, sweet and free from
destructive germs. To both
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
appeals as nothing else can. Just
as pure air is now found to be the
greatest of all restorers (it con-
tains Si per cent, oxygen), so
Calox releases oxygen when moist-
ened.
It penetrates the recesses, purifies
and sweetens where the brush can-
not go —but where decay plays
havoc.
Get Calox at
ALL CHEMISTS, DRAPERS, FANCY COODS STORES
AND TOBACCONISTS.
Wholesale
Distributors:
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S.urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
The Lake Breeze Motor
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
COMMONWEALTH
S2TRAUfI
OF AUSTRALIA.
4i per cent. WAR LOAN, 1925.
r PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
, x -., ' pt i , ,T° BE UTILISED FOR WAR PURPOSES ONLY, and will take the form of either
tL k CIV ° r trea SURY BONDS, at option of Subscriber.
. ab ° v ® Loan is issued under ACT OF PARLIAMENT of the Commonwealth of Australia,
,cu DnS the TREASURER to borrow £50,000 000, and both CAPITAL and INTEREST will be
° n the CONSOLIDATED REVENUE of the COMMONWEALTH.
FREE OF INCOMF A TAX ERS FREE ° f COMM ONWEALTH or STATE STAMP DUTY and INTEREST
W ' B accepted at PAR in pavment of Commonwealth PROBATE and
U mncO° N DUTY The Stock is an authorised TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
tkJS’ RY BONDS issued in denominations of £lO, £lOO, £5OO, and £lOOO, or STOCK
tJM&CRIBED in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO over £lOO.
TV REPAYABLE AT PAR ON 15th DECEMBER. 1925.
D, 1N m E n EEST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY. A FULL HALF YEAR’S INTEREST WILL BE
PAYABLE on 15th DECEMBER. 1916.
a INSTALMENTS payable as follows : — £lo per cent, on application. £l5 per cent, on 15th
aoJ’ US '"’ P er cent, on 15t.h September, 1916. £25 per cent, on 16th October, 1916.
£3O per cent, on 15th November, 1916.
ANY OR ALL OF THE INSTALMENTS MAY BE PREPAID.
APPLICATIONS must be accompanied bv a DEPOSIT OF £lO PER CENT., and will be received
at any Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, including Rabaul, New Britain, or
may be forwarded through Head Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, STATE SAVINGS BANK, or
any Member of a recognised STOCK EXCHANGE, or any POST OFFICE where Money Order Business
is conducted. INSTALMENTS payable through the same sources.
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM ANY BANK, STATE
SAVINGS BANK, OR POST OFFICE AS ABOVE. SUBSCRIPTION LIST CLOSES Ist AUGUST, 1916.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Ist June. 1916
Ra ise lever, immerse nib,
lower lever and liio
pen is filled. A
1
m
%
II
wm.
m
'T'HIS is the simplest, safest,
quickest and best self-filling
device in fountain pens. And
it is to be had only in Water-
man’s Ideal, the World’s
Best Fountain Pen.
Get this pen and no
other if you want
a self-filler.
Other types
“ Regular ”
and
“ Safety.”
f The
Tever Pocket
t rTW Self-Filling
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Fouri tainPen
—the pen you will
eventually buy.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, UyffkxL Corner, Poland.
Australia : Hakold D. Dixox, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
15s
tT»
18
-v
‘
Loaded in London
with the popular
English powders
The lightning
speed of the game
bird is easily matched
by the even pellet distribution, velocity
and penetration of Remington -UMC
REMINGTON
Cartridges
Made in 12, 16, 20, 24,
28, 32 (14 m/m) and 36
(410 or 12 m/m) gauge
TRY
THEM
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere catalogue post-
free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg., New York City
St, Stephens House
Westminster,
S.W.,
London
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne,
THE
BIG
X
EXCELSIOR AUTO-CYCLES
The Auto-Cycle built especially for Australian and New Zealand road
that holds all roa d a nd track records.
C ARTERTON. January 13: Open Handicap, 15 miles in 14 minutes
20 4-sth seconds.
PALMERSTON NORTH. —February 2: Open Handicap, 8 laps in
7 minutes 44 seconds. j _ '
a orppRTON March 2 : 18| Mile Handicap, 1 1 minutes lo seconds.
An Australasian record. . o .
CARTERTON.— March 4: 15 Mile Handicap, 13 minutes o 3 l-sth
seconds.
March 29: 10 Mile Open Handicap, from scratch,
9 minutes 15 seconds. ,
AUTHORISED AGENTS:
SYDNEY
PARRAMATTA -
ADELAIDE -
WILLIAMS BROS.,
Pitt Street
. SAUNDERS BROS.
W.CORNELL & SONS
Av 1
. -.V
WHEN
YOU
BUY
ABBEY SHOES
you get style, comfort, perfect fit
and the very best workmanship.
In addition to this, their long-
wearing qualities reduce their cost
to that of ordinary footwear.
We illustrate one of our latest
models—A TAN WILLOW CALF
BAL., LEAT II E R-L INED,
STOUT SOLES, WIDE WELTS.
PRICE 30/-
Also in Black BOX CALF.
PRICE 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between 0.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
FOB
QUICK RESULTS
USE
dPILLfIRINE
CAPILLARINE is a pure hair-
grower and never fails to produce
a strong growth of hair on the
upper lip. Hundreds have proved
its efficacy. Why not send for a
jar to-day?
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 5 Y c D e^ e stl
Established over SO years.
AVON
TRADE MARK
THe TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
DAIMLER
\iis*
sotor Carriages «~
Commercial Vehicles ~
Agricultural Tractors
>«• DAIMLER COMPANY ra
COVENTRY, ENG l AND,
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AHABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


ll&nlwcnM 'Xotel
SyDN ELY. IN.S W.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons. Dinners, Afternoon Teas. Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLI’RCAX, Manageress.
CASTOR OIL, SALTS* DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Calitig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of f>? s
“Oalifig”—as a physic. Don’t think
are drugging yourself or your children, t
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause miju . •
Even a delicate child can take it as sa .
as a robust man. It is the most. harm *> •
effective stomach, liver and bowel regu a
and tonic ever devised. ~f i •>
Ask your chemist for a bottle of Can g
—California Syrup of Figs, which has
directions for babies, children of all ages
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bo -
Get the genuine, made by California jj
Syrup Company. Refuse any other '
with contempt. “Califig”— California
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hughes the other day said something
about a special hell arranged for people who
“hang back.” Now there is something about
shirkers being “lepers and pariahs.” This
is all very well regarded as noise, but who
is the excited little man talking about?
Surely Hughes is not going to say that an
Australian who exercises his right to decide
against enlisting is a leper 1 The volun-
taryism that Hughes upheld while he was
in Australia, and has inferentially supported
by his talkative absence, is based on free-
dom of choice. Therefore it is not from his
mouth that there should be heard condem-
nation of men for not enlisting. Neither
he nor his Ministers who oppose conscrip-
tion can legitimately say to Australians:
"We are voluntarists. If you do not
volunteer you are a leper.” That is not
voluntaryism. It is something not identifi-
able.
NOT MISSING ANY CHANCES.
"Why can’t you fellows keep off fighting till
you get to the Front?”
"Yes. and a bloke might go and get sick and
be kept back in hospital half the time.”
Bluff old Alf Eddeu, formerly deputy-
leader of the X. S. Wales Laborites and
Minister for Mines, is the first sitting mem-
ber of the party to be turned down in a
selection ballot. That's in 25 yea re.
The new version: T-s-s-sh! Who said
Catts? Ifush-sh-sh!
One of the curiosities of the Pensions Act
provides that an incapacitated soldier who
marries will get an allowance for his wife
and more allowance for every child the pair
produce. A man who comes back minus
(say) an arm may get (say) £1 2s. 6d.
weekly. Should he acquire a wife later on
there will be 11s. 3d. coming in for her. If
they perpetrate a family there will be 7s. 6d.
a week for the first, ss. 7d. for the second,
and so on. The couple having two children
may get £2 6s. Iod. a week. A woman who
has lost her husband in the war qnd is left
with two children will draw £1 17s. 6d. Of
course, a man deserves his pension, and
should not be hampered through injury from
marrying, but —well, if a soldier’s widow
with two children has a keen eye for busi-
ness, her best investment would seem to be
a veteran and a couple more youngsters.
NO VOLUNTEERS.
THE SPRUIKER: “Wot.’ Won't none o’ yer
’arc a friendly spar with the Pride o’
Potts Point ’ere? Well, serve yer
bloomin’ well right if they brings
in conscription. That’s all I says.”
A country which funks the issue of
National Service is pledged to a policy of
Jingoism, flag-flapping and false heroics to
get the man it wants to do its fighting for
it. ' Having got him to swallow the gilded
pill, it must pamper him to keep him quiet,
and when, stall-fed. he begins to kick against
the pricks it has to rush him aboard to
expend his energies in aggressions on peace-
ful neighbors. A country which gets its
fighting done for it by a voluntary few will
shout hilariously for war, especially when it
can pass the bill on to its remote descendants.
The country whose entire manhood must
hurry into the firing-line will think twice
before it takes that step.
The old yarn about competition being
necessarily an ‘‘advantage to the consumer"
has been torpedoed many times, and when the
Inter-State Commission had finished with the
foreign piano it couldn’t find any yarn left.
In a report just issued on the instrument of
torture the Commission observes that the
greater the competition the harder the public
gets hit. Some of the figures are staggering.
The contraption the German put on to steam-
ers for £l5 is vended to the Australian house-
hold for £5O; the £25 affair is peddled at
£7O. It costs several times more to sell a piano
than to make one. The explanation is that
a multitude of people are selling pianos, and
the more fiercely they battle the higher are
the expenses of marketing. In this there is
something for people who are yelling about
the price of food to catch hold of. In a
country where there are only a few indivi-
duals growing (say) potatoes and hundreds
selling the vegetables to thousands who want
to eat them, spuds are dear, because the man
who grows them and the family who consume
them have to carry the other multitude on
their back. Some day marketing will be
reduced to a science and conducted in the
public interest. Just now everything, from
pianos and medicines to onions and beer, is
just flung round any old way, and the more
hands there are in the game the closer the
common herd of producers and consumers are
shorn.
“Copabella”: Many people seem to think
the retailer inquires the origin of his goods
when he buys them. He doesn’t. He in-
quires the price. Then he compares the
quality. He knows what factors will go to
the selling of his wares. If he is out of
“Made-in-Australia” goods, it is not because
he is too tired to re-buy : it is because so few
of his customers ask for "Made-in-Australia”
stuff that it doesn’t really matter, from a
sales point of view, whether the stuff he sells
is marked “Made-in-Australia,” “Made-in-
Tehuantepec.” or “Made-in-Heaven.” The
first principle of retailing is to sell the public
what it wants. When the Australian manu-
facturer has educated the public to make its
first shopping question: “Have you those
good Canberra stockings?” instead of the
usual: “I want a pair of one-and-eleven-
pennies,” then the duchess behind the counter
will stock the Australian, or lose her coronet.
“Murrabit”: It’s a
humorous thing. this
economy campaign. The
mailbags are tied with
string, heavily knotted
and waxed over. The
order has been trumpeted
that this string, hitherto
thrown out, must be de-
posited in baskets. So,
at Melbourne G.r.0., ten
men (minimum wage 10s.
a day) sit at a table
sorting the fragments.
Perhaps the stuff thus
saved in one day might
be valued at £l. Which
puts the country £4 to
the bad. But bless you!
Don’t ten men get a job
at doing nothing that
matters; so why make a
noise ?
C. J. Joyce, of the
Hobart Daily Post, who
wants to be a Labor
standard-bearer in the
Speck at the next Senate
election, got home on an
interjector the other day.
Said Joyce: “Australia
should be a free Australia,
self-contained and self-
reliant.” Whereupon a
patriot in the crowd
shouted excitedly:
“What! Cut the painter?
Have we not all de-
scended from British
stock?” “Well,” said
Joyce, “I think it should
be our ambition to ascend.” after which the
first volley of applause was superseded by
thoughtful silence.
The last mail brought a New York paper
bearing this headline: “America’s Grip on
Rubber.” That explains the elastic
conscience of the country.
Though the recent pair of by-elections
meant the return of two new members to the
Yic. House of Fat. to replace the late Wil-
liam Fielding (Labor) and the retired AYillis
Little (Liberal), there was a profound lack
of public interest in the double event. Little's
scat was filled without opposition by Kendell,
a Geelong farmer who sat in the last Federal
Parliament as Liberal rep. for Gorio: while
James Disney, a South Melbourne furniture-
dealer with some experience as a Labor
municipal-councillor, took the other seat
without a Libera] coming forward to say him
nay. In the usual triennial elections, which
followed, only five seats were contested out
of 17. Considering the frequency with which
the House of Fat throws out Liberal
measures, it is hard to understand why a
self-respecting Liberal party should stand
aloof —unless it really likes to have its
measures thrown out.
A country that is self-contained can keep
its local finance going as easily as the local
agriculturist can grow spuds, it is merely a
question of deciding upon a medium of ex-
change. and the issue of paper money is an
easy solution of the problem. This is what
Germany is doing. On the desk this is
written upon are two notes bearing the
Imperial seal —for a mark and two marks,
respectively ; and here is a translation
Loan Bank Note.
Berlin August 12, 1911.
Imperial Loan Management.
One Mark.
He who Imitates or alters these notes and he who
acquires imitated or altered notes and brings same
into circulation will be subject to a penalty of two
years’ hard labor.
The numbers on these notes are a long way
up in the millions. Observe that there is no
promise of redemption. If Germany were to
win the war redemption would have to be
provided for. If she lost, the holders of these
notes would find themselves with something
of less use than empty beer bottles. Until
the war is over she can, so long as she is
self-contained, carry on as well with scraps
of paper as she could with chunks of gold.
Afterwards, unless the Kaiser holds a win-
ning hand, a sackful of his mark notes
wouldn’t buy the Crown Prince a sausage.
The “two great parties” are welding them
selves together feverishly in N S Wri
in anticipation of the coming dog-fight
the steak of office. A prime reason B for the
sudden entente between the Wade
and the Beebyites is the threatened inc,
sion of the Military Candidate, who dreamt
in his innocence that he will be elected m,
the strength of his services to the nation
Of course he won’t. By polling-day if
sooner, the party mud-slingers will w
done their accustomed work, and the
astounded patriot will have learned that he
is a fool and a wife-beater; an emissary
of Rome or an Orangeman (according to
locality) ; a poltroon who fled from the foe
leaving his comrades to the butcher; and a
few other things of the sort. Having paid
his electioneering bill, he will then have the
opportunity to sit quietly down, side by side
with his devastated reputation, and ponder
upon the beneficent workings of our Party
machines.
Now that the N.S.W. general election is
looming up, the Holman Government finds
the time ripe to restore the privileges docked
some time ago from the public service.
Knockiug-off time is to be once more 4.3(j
instead of 5 p.m.; holidays are to fie on
the old pre-war scale; increments are to
be allowed, and certain promotions made.
The Holman crowd looked as though it was
going to lose the support of a lot of the -
public servants, and that danger outweighed
the argument that the public service owes
it to the taxpayer to make sacrifices during
the crisis. Except long usage there is no
reason why the public servant should escape
from toil at half-past four, giving him a
six-hour day; but the half-year before an
election is not the time for a limpet like
Holman to argue the point
The proposal to pull our owu leg, wink at
ourselves, and put the clock on a couple of
hours has been adopted in England; and it
will come this way presently. There is really
nothing w rong with the clock. The trouble
is with our own habits. But if we can get
those habits down and walk on them by a
little tinkering with the hands of the time-
piece, all right. It is a waste of bed-clothes
to sleep through the bright first hours of the
summer morniug and then pay a gas-bill
because the day isn’t long enough at the
other end. To one person, however, the day-
light-saving proposition is a blank horror.
Bung, faced with six-o’clock closing, knows
that it may mean four; and even the fact
that pubs may open at four in the morning
doesn’t seem to take any of the edge off his
bad dream.
CONFESSION.
THE LADY : "I believe you know that per-
son?”
LOTHARIO: “Not since her husband re-
turned.”
The importance of the jaw was never
shown more strikingly than in the case of
Hughes. The day before he reached Lon-
don the Daily Chronicle thought him of
sufficient importance to herald his arrival
by two lines announcing that “Mr. M ilham
Morris,” Prime Minister of Australia,
“better knowu to his constituents as Billy.
was due next day. A week later it was
starring him as the Savior of the Empire,
the White Hope of the World, and divers
other things. And in the interval he had
done nothing except make a couple or
speeches, mostly froth and bubble, a™
imagery taken from Dante’s Inferno. It > s
enough to make every aspiring word-
spinner gather his belongings together and
set out for London.
THE CRACKED REFORMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cracked Reformer roams at large,
llis is a busy life;
His neighbor is his special charge,
Also, his neighbor’s wife.
And nought will ease his shallow head
Till both of them are good and dead.
When God had closed his handicraft
In Eden’s ecstasy,
The Cracked Reformer went to graft.
Said he, “No good to me I
Joy has no right on earth below.”
Wherefore he busted up the show.
From that far day this creeping mite
Has fastened to the cheese.
AVhere’er its savor there he’ll bite,
And spread his dank disease.
From day to day, from hour to hour,
He’s active turning sweetness sour.
He moves in endless ways and shapes
His blunders to perform,
And Freedom in his leading tapes
Droops ’neath its cruciform,
llis vacant laugh, his puerile joke
Add to the galling of the yoke.
If there were compromise in him
The future still might be
A reasonable synonym
For Life's felicity—
-1 only see him daft and gaunt,
And hear his parrot cry, “Avaunt!”
Man wants but little here below,
Nor wants that little long;
But when the Cracked Reformers blow
That he is always wrong,
It makes him feel inclined to say:
“Lord, Jet me quit the plot to-day.”
N.S.W'.
THE SNAKE.


DOLTOLE
ABJ)UCOON
' n.rv
BLCX)t
Fireside Fiction.
A Selection of the
SPLENDID SHILLING NOVELS
in the
Bookstall Series of Australian Books
lj- each.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers,
or direct from Publishers
11 posted.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
“CHANDLER OF CORRALINGA,”
By R. J. Cassidy.
An exceptionally good bush yarn. Jack
Chandler is a dare-devil, hard-worker, expert
shearer, reckless gambler, habitual Lothario,
sheep-stealer, cattle-thief, Bohemian and general
ne’er-do-well, and he is the central figure in a
great variety of interesting situations.
“SCOTTY MAC, SHEARER,”
By R. S. Tait.
A series of rollicking sketches concerning a
bush nomad.
“THE TRADER,”
By C. Ross-Johnson.
A thrilling story of adventure in Papua. The
author, who knows the country intimately, tells
convincingly of a young trader’s foolish attempt
to establish a plantation in a district where the
natives were known to be most treacherous. Many
interesting glimpses of Australia’s northern pos-
session.
“THE HAUNTED SHANTY,”
By Thos, E. Spencer.
A series of fifteen delightful camp-fire
stories.
Latest Additions to the Series
“SKEETER FARM,”
By Sumner Locke.
“UNDER l
CLOUD,”
By Arthur Wright.
To be Published Shortly
“GRANDPA’S SELECTION,”
By Steele Rudd.
“THE BELLE OF THE BUSH,”
By George Darrell.
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO.”
A mining story of unusual interest. Apart
from the fact that this is a novel of exceptional
literary quality, the author also performs the
good service of explaining the methods of the
market-rigger and mine-saiter. A story brimful
of dramatic and thrilling situations.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE .MOTOR-
LAUNCH,”
By Arthur H. Adams.
The amusing story of a young man who seeks
adventure on Sydney Harbor, and who is over-
come with all manner of strange situations.
“THE PYJAMA MAX.”
A capital romance that originates in the surf,
adjourns for a spell to the glamor of London
theatrical life, and eventually terminates in
unconventional circumstances on a station on the
Monaro. One of those rare books that has not a
single dull page.
“SODGER SANDY’S BAIRN,”
By A. Bathgate.
A novel dealing with life in Otago (New
Zealand) fifty years ago. It bristles with excit-
ing episodes at the early gold rushes.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Electric Motors
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse—motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
rstinohougr
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules, Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
William Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
27-31. Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
Works—Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
Wf***-
Yielding lain diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds. , -
7^l//
V wr'
:■»
11
1 ■
11
§
o
NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS,
COG WHEELS, etc.
THE DAY OF THE EXPERT. To-day is the day.of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
—who is thorough, efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
be conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
THE ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxv-Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to the charge of incompetence.
Throughout the world to-day the Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest scientific addition to every engineering
workshop, which, fitted with this process, has an advantage over the opposition impossible to estimate. It is simple,
yet wonderfully effective; its price is trifling, and the plant is portable. Whether the broken parts require to be cut
or welded at the bench or by the roadside is of no consequence.
Any work of Iron or Steel welding or cutting can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
y the Engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and made new
r again. This, too. in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetvlene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process w ill make new again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Cran k or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes,
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn Key ways in Shafts:
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be .welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., whieh cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published by Charles Griffin & Co., London, states:
“Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” Those workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.,
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Airents— MELBOURNE: Fyvle & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street,
* BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
s ~>
wmSmSmmM
m
-
r
:*
Fraotured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetylene Works, Flinders Btreet,
Adelaide.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Pt-rr-al
attention to all consignments
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The finest, keenest blades ever
made for shaving harder
blades with smoother and
more lasting edges—are those
now being sold for the
tmasm
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Take a packet home with
you to-night.
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
Tnf
WBAtd OVI*
STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its Growth.
To a half-pint of water add: —
hay Rum
Orlex Compound sma “ ■?
Glycerine ?
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little co »
and mix them yourself. Apply to the sc p
once a day for two weeks, then once ev i
other week, until all the mixture is used. *
half-pint should be enough to rid the hea 1
dandruff and kill the dandruff
stops the hair from falling out, and re
itching and scalp diseases. ,
Although it is not a dye. it acts upon tu
hair roots and will darken streaked,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promo
growth of the hair and makes karsii
soft and glossy.
Anything made of
brass, silver, gold,
copper, zinc.alnm-
inum takes on a
new life when rub-
bed with this
wonderful polish.
EAST TO TSK.
orICK TO ACT,
convenient i»
form. Sold by a l *
Grocery. Hardware
and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Drapery, j^ zaar
conists, Stationery. Jewellery. Id., 3d. ana • g ainp ] e
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, etc. l0?ue)
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide
“Success in Business,” Sd.
H. Michaels & Son.
14-15 Cromwell House. High Hoi
London, W.C., England.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The. winter meeting of the A.J.C. should
be a very different thing. Jumping horses get the
poorest encouragement in N. S. Wales. The argu-
ment is that there are but few in training, and
tfiat a genuine steeplechase meeting would attract
only limited fields of poor quality. The answer is
that such conditions can only be altered by making
things as attractive to jumpers as to squibs
whose limit of endurance is six furlongs. This
latter class of animal is catered for with a splendid
liberality all over the State. A hurdler or ’chaser
gets few opportunities. At last week’s meeting there
were four jumping races in two days, not a single
flat race for jumpers and only one race run under
welter conditions. Over in Maorilapd there are half
a dozen relatively tinpot clubs which do a long way
better than this', and there, in spite of Antarctic
weather, the steeplechase meetings are among the
most popular of the year. A race over fences is,
anywhere, incomparably more attractive to watch
than a scramble half round the course, and the prac-
tice of' racing two-year-olds all the year through is
one which might advantageously be sat upon in
favor of giving the older beasts an annual outing.
Once each day the favorite won—in the first
steeple and second hurdles. The rest of the pro-
ceedings consisted of a pilgrimage to the yawning
bags of Ikey. Madden, who won the first steeple-
chase, started in that event at 3’s. On the second
day he went out at 2’s, a lunatic price to take about
anything in a jumping race. With an additional
half-mile to go and 121 b. more in the lead bag,
Wadden showed he was a long way from being a
champion. He tired away to nothing, and as Busra
turned a seven at the final obstacle the struggle for
possession of the cash rested between old Briar-
berry (list. 101 b.), who had run second in the first
steeple, and Glenquinn (9st. 31b.), who had in that
event broken his rider’s leg. Glenquinn, a big,
raking thoroughbred, trained by P. Nolan, had all
the best of it, winning by four lengths. The rest
of the starters were a poor lot.
At Moorefield a few weeks back Hopfield, a well-
grown, long-striding son of Malster, swooped down
on Three and acquired the cash. He did the same
thing at Randwiek on Saturday, the six furlongs
being run in “145,” and the unlucky Three, who had
put up a gallant struggle with the crusher of 9st.
131 b. on board, was given the privilege of once more
just missing. In seven starts, within a week or
two, Three has run one first, three seconds, two
thirds, and once unplaced. On Monday Hopfield,
without offering the slightest apology, snuffed out
Boureoug in the Flying, doing the journey this time
in “135.” He was ridden on each occasion by
Crockett, a 15-year-old apprentice in the service of
H. J. Robinson, the owner of Hopfield, and trainer
of Canzone, Merrimee and Coy. The youngster rode
with excellent judgment and great resolution, much
to the regret of the leading horsemen, who were on
the nags Hopfield cut out. He is a nephew of a
one-time prominent rider of ponies who flourished in
the days when the midgets were raced on Metro-
politan courses. Neither at Moorefield nor at Rand-
wick on Saturday was Hopfield given much of a
chance by the stable. He ran for the stake alone.
On Saturday he left the paddock with Israel bawling
its anxiety to lay him at 20’s. On Monday he was
at 12’s, with the public rushing Boureong and Three
at 4’s.
George Marlow also staged a double, his star
performer being the imported mare Trinobantes in
the Ellesmere and Exeter handicaps. On Saturday she
started at 12’s and was well supported by the
stable. On Monday the same goods were on offer
and George helped himself again; so the lady will
be able to munch her oats in peace and contentment
at not owing anything at the ticket office. Another
imported nag arrived with great suddenness and
capsized a hot-pot in Duke Alwyne, the Newcastle
Cup winner, in the Min ter Stakes —Busra, who had
been knocking at the door, occasionally putting in
a long, brilliant run at the end of a mile and
three furlongs, and showing the Christian Brother
his tail at the critical moment. Busra was well
backed at fives and helped expand the wad appro-
priated during the season by immigrant prads.
These animals look to be in danger of having
themselves penalised by Act of Parliament or some-
thing, unless the handicappers take notice. Since
last issue of The Bulletin the success of the imports
has been as marked as before. In addition to what
they did at Randwiek the Birthday Cup at Adelaide
was appropriated by Cyklon, and Canzone raked in
the 1000 attached" to' the Moreton Handicap at
Brisbane. No wonder the local yearling is not
being sold by the ounce.
* * * ♦
It is pretty near time the professional
tipster took a rest. The solemn parading in the news-
papers of certain fugitive “anticipations’’ for race
after race at meeting after meeting merely represents
a trap for the unwary, and ought to be stopped.
There is internal evidence in the great majority of
cases that the tipsier is merely “picking them on the
blind.” Some of the performances in connection
with the first day of the A.J.C. Winter meeting were
remarkable illustrations of what can be accomplished
by ignorance and fatuity. The dailies were, of course,
deadly. In the weeklies one reckless prophet named
18 horses in connection with the six races, and not
only failed to pick a winner but did not mention one
horse which got a place. In one race the nag he
tipped to win ran absolutely last. In another his
choice for first place fell down, his second nag
finished at the stern, ami the animal alleged to have
an intention of running third did not start. Most of
the other tipsters gate “Wadden a chance in the first
Steeple. Omitting that race, four of them named 60
horses for the five remaining events, two without any
success, the other two getting a winner each. This
is a pretty fair average of what these persons habitu-
ally perpetrate. Few punters do quite so badly.
* * * *
Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey Club had its
annual meeting the other day and produced a profit
for the season of £4285. This will go to one of
the war funds, with the £5658 already subscribed.
The receipts for* the year were £63,594, the prin-
cipal items being commission on tote investments
£37,691 and gate money £11,156. On the * .
ditnre side stakes took the biggest bite, £ <57,»4u,
and the Government received £16,392 m tne
shape of taxes. In the last five years the club has
presented the State with £51,629 most of it being
percentage on tote investments. This showsv,hatt
incorruptible machine can do in the way of help g
Joe Ward to settle with Cohen.
* * *
El Gallo’s success in both Great North-
ern Hurdle and Steeplechase at Auckland knocked
records to the winds. The speedy S P a^ en
horse won both events last year, and thereb
equalled the record of Liberator somewhere about 20
vears ago; now the double-double success puts up
something swift for prads of the tuture to chase.
El Gallo's steeplechase time (31 miles in Bmin. 3sec.)
also goes on the slate as a record.
“ J. Hop”: The yarn told by a witness
for the prosecution in a Sydney police court the
other dav about handing cash to a stranger to back
unspecified horses with, the said nags having hard
luck every time and finishing second, confirms the
gun's philosophy that a fresh sucker is born into
the world every minute. Heaven alone knows how
much the brotherhood of guessers get away witn
in the course of a year; it certainly isn t expressed
in few figures. But the snags that may be struck
bv anvone going into this business are many, tor
the competition is ruthless. I remember once see-
ing a hard-faced gun at a country meeting lumbering
a fiat who had arrived on the course with his w ad in
a satchel carried on his back. Of course the gun was
telling the wretched sucker the old tale about his
friend the trainer. They fpund the “trainer all
riffht, and he undertook as a special fa'or to P ut
five and twenty a-piece on for the two friends. Hard-
face started to produce something which looked like
cash, and the other chap commenced to undo his
satchel and deliver the goods. But the goods w eren t
there, and with a wild yell he grabbed the two
conspirators with large, toil-worn hands and howled
murder. The sergeant and the rest of us prized
them apart just in time to do the undertaker out
of a job and ran the pair in. though their screams
of innocence could be heard five miles away. They
got two years apiece, the looted chump identifying
some of the notes. But we didn't produce the bag
as an exhibit in court, mainly because it had a large,
gaping hole in the bottom. A quick-exchange artist
had in five seconds done with a razor what the
others hadn't done in an hour, and they didn t
tumble to it till long afterwards. It was the same
tradesman, by the w T av, who later on lifted a bag
of diamonds 'from a Jew in the Marseilles-to-Pans
mail train and sold them in London.
* * * *
At Rosebery course (Sydney) the other
dav John Bull’s' Home Rule, ridden by Kitchener,
captured the 14.2 sprint. The L.O.L. had no re-
marks to make.
* * * *
“Tibula” : F. J. Mitchell has started win-
ning races in Alburv now. If he takes a liking to
a course it’s bad luck for the other owners. They’ll
tell you that in Ballarat. At the last meeting
there, on the first day three of the winners ran in
Mitchell’s name, while next day he went one better,
and gave his friends four good things. Last year, at
a meeting on the same course, McXoses had to pay
out four times over the same owner's quadrupeds.
* * * *
“Huffin Guffin”: Don’t let the Sunday-
school read this. It is true. A young man, who
had fallen amongst bad companions and been given
a good thing for the first race, forged his father’s
cheque for £5O and went out. He put the un-
cashed cheque on a horse at 10’s— —the bookv know-
ing him w-ell enough to accept the cheque but not
well enough to refuse it. The immoral horse
which hadn't heard the story —won handsomely.
The young forger received £5OO and his cheque
back.* The cheque was promptly burnt, and the
villain is now married to the girl of his choice and
living in a comfortable little home. (P.S. —Better
keep it from the churchwardens too.)
* * * *
The Darcy-Buck Crouse conflict at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday was another sharp re-
minder to the public to be careful when the dope
about an American is being handed around. The
thing was a farce. The Yank made no fight of it. In
the first round he lurched on to Darcy and held
down the hostile gloves with deliberate intention to
avoid a disturbance, and after being knocked off his
feet and receiving several short jolts to the side of
the head he took a rest. In the second round he
lasted less than 20 seconds. Darcy caught him
heavily with the left flush on the throat, sent him
down for eight with a right on the jaw and dropped
him immediately after with a swing to the point.
Then the meat was carried to its corner for resuscita-
tion. One explanation of this deplorable exhibition
is that Crouse was suffering from nerves —was, like
his predecessor Costica. terrified out of his life.
Mavbe it was so. He shaped like a dub, anyhow,
and, nerves or not, is clearly no more than a third-
rater. To have chosen Darcy for this lemon’s first
Australian engagement was to repeat a mistake that
has been made very often lately. Crouse's next
unpleasantness is with Mick King at Melbourne.
Fancy importing a total stranger for the accommoda-
tion of Michael!
* * * *
In the matter of Fritz Holland and Fritz
Maki, at Melbourne, on Saturday night. A round
and a half settled it. Holland tackled the job by
holding aloof and inviting the arduous Maki to come
in and enjoy himself. Maki accepted with his
head down, and in the second round Holland
deposited three successive uppercuts where they were
wanted. When the fog lifted Maki was looking for
the top of his head among the sawdust.
* * *• * _
Heard the Final Gong the other day in
Kngland at the age of 74, George Holden, who
about 50 years back was one of the most celebrated
bantam-weights. He fought at Bst. His dad, who
was only 61b. heavier, was also famous, but the
chip of the old block was his superior. He was
only 20 when he outed the Yankee champiop,
Charley Lynch, in the Cold Country, in a scrap
lasting an hour and 54 minutes. Later he de-
feated Mick Moran, who attempted to tear the
championship from him, but ultimately had to
hand the bauble to that prince of bantams, Peter
Morris, after a disturbance of two hours and nine
minutes. Later on he fought a draw with Morris,
and this was one of the most remarkable scraps on
record. The promoters knew that the police would
probably interfere, so rings were prepared in three
different localities. When the Hops appeared near
Xo. 1 the fight stopped and the contestants and
crowd bolted off to No. 2. When the disturbance
there was interrupted by more policemen Holden
and Morris leaped to No. 3, where the third act
was staged. Seems like the story of a moving-
picture show! # *
“Mynn”: Just-deceased Jack Marsh was
not the only aborigine to take part in first-class
cricket in Australia. Away back in the (0s of
last century Twopenny played once for N. S. VV ales
against Victoria, scoring 8 and 0, and taking no
wickets for 56. Johnny Mullagh assisted \ ictoria
against Lord Harris’s English team, scoring 4 and
36 This feat so delighted White Brother that he
put his hand into his pocket and abstracted £oo,
with which he bought Johnny a gold watch. Pre-
sumably he thought that a gold Watch was what
an a bo. would be most likely to want. Twopenny
and Mullagh were members of the aboriginal team
that went to show Englishmen how to play the
game in ’6B. Twopenny was the crack bowler of
the side, and in one match took nine for nine, while
next to' Charlie Lawrence, the old English player,
who captained the team, Mullagh was the most
prolific gatherer of runs, and averaged 2d. Another
colored brother who plaved in first-class cricket in
Australia is Sam Morris, who did good work for
Victoria for several years. Sam is now spending
his days sightless in Melbourne, but still takes a
keen interest in the game. Marsh was one of the
fastest bowlers Australia has seen, but at the start
of his career he struck a snag. That was when
Clem Hill banged up his big score of 365. Still,
the blackfellow did not do badly, taking five wickets
for 181.
* * * *
“Spreader” : It was a game of three-handed
nap that gave Benson, the Jubilee Juggins, the only
decent punch he got from the rooks when spilling
some of his cash in
Australia about 25 years
back. The game was
played fair (not all in),
and the first card down
was trumps. A book-
maker, long since
snuffed out, dealt the
cards, and the dealer’s
clerk took the third
hand. Benson received
ace, king, queen, jack
of hearts and ace of
diamonds; the dealer
had five small hearts
(perhaps it was all in,
now I come to think of
it) ; the other sport,
just a chance hand.
When it was up to Ben-
son to talk he called
“nap r ” and set a few
heavy wagers round the
room that he’d catch it.
Whether he was primed
beforehand was never
disclosed; but he led
the ace of diamonds,
and the chance hand
held only the queen.
WALTER
LINDRUM.
Fred's 17-year-old
brother, who beat
Maconachy by bril-
liant losing hazard
play.
Walter Lindrum, the Australian red-ball
hazard juggler, is the 17-year-old member of a
family afflicted with a mania for billiards. Long
before he was tall enough to correctly sight the
balls on the table, young Lindrum was handling a
cue; but in later years the tuition of champion
brother Fred has improved him wonderfully. In
the recent match with Maconachv (also a red-ball
fanatic), at Melbourne, Walter provided an eye-
opener by defeating the Maorilander, with 5551
points to the good, in a game of 18,000 up. He
made 50 breaks over the century, the tallest being
786, 785, 766 and 704. Just now Walter Lindrum
is the most adept red-ball player in the Common-
wealth, and the return of George Gray should clinch
a match likely to whet the appetite of every saloon
loafer.
♦ * * »
The Victorian A.A.A.’s opening cross-
country run attracted only 114 men from 11 clubs.
Not since 1893 (102 starters) has the roll-up been
so small. The record opening was in 1912 (18 clubs,
501 starters). Compared with 1915 (16 clubs, 301
starters) this year’s drop is a big one. War, of
course.
* * * *
N.S.W. distance champion H. Hayden is
throwing the earth behind in rare style this season.
In three successive week-end events he has romped
off with the teapot. The success from scratch over
five miles of roadway at Botany on Saturday in
26min. 46sec. was an effort worth taking notice of.
Hayden’s form looks good enough to justify a prophecy
that he will not miss many of the championships
which were overtaken by his hurrying feet last
season.
*** * ~
“Tiaki”: He was a big-gun billiard rook’
looking for a Maori mug. In the first game he
ju-u-st beat Henare Kita. Henare ju-u-st beat him
in the second. He was angry at being beaten by
a Maori; would play Henare for a tenner “if he
liked himself so much.” Henare preferred himself
a tenner’s worth and went into the hairdressing
saloon, washed his face and hands, donned a clean
collar and lubricated his locks. The money was
up and the rook played all he knew. As he made
his shots Henare attended to the courtesies- _of the
game. Then the rook began to miss-cue at import-
ant places in his breaks. He utilised a lot of
anathema, sand-papered his tips and changed his
cues. Henare played calmly, and won by a bag-
full. The rook fled. “He t’ink he te prurry smart
proke cos he come to take te poor Maori town,
ain’t it?” chuckled Henare. “Put I s’ow him te
point. You know when I toin’ my hair I put te
hinu (hair-oil) on te ref (left) ban’, an’ ewerv
time I take his pall put-a te pocket I breeze him—
t’at te way he make ora prurry miss-cue. what
t’ink, eh?” ’ 1 JOU
* * * *
“L.E.”: To show their good feelings
towards their Allies two Japanese gentlemen in
Suva contributed a fencing item to a Red Cross
entertainment, and their skill satisfied me that the
Hun would have no chance against them with a
bayonet. Before they got to work they looked
like two old-fashioned housewives armed with broom
sticks. Coming on to the stage they bowed to the
audience, then squatted on the ground, crossed
swords and bowed to each other. Suddenly, a S if
electrified, one uttered a guttural word; "a’ replv
came from the other. Up they bounded and were
soon dexterously smiting at each other. Bang!
down through a guard went a sword. A marvellous
turn of the wrist and the point was at the
adversary’s throat. Then for the second time
they spoke. The audience didn’t catch the words
but it didn't need to, as the meaning was so
clear. One had said: “You’re a dead man.” The
other had approved. Then they started off again
with the same intensely polite prelude.
“A. 8.”: Have fished all the rivers that
matter in Australia for cod, and propose to deliver
judgment on bait. Have used snake, goarina, centipede,
cockatoo, rabbit, crow, mutton, beef, pork—-everything
that will stick on a hook. Once near the Scour, at
Brewarrina (N.S.W.), tried red flannel and caught
three fine cod; this after failing with grubs and
worms. Fresh-water mussels are fair; throw them
in a fire until they are hard enough to cling to a
hook. Once at the Bourke Weir a piece of orange
skin enticed a two-pounder. Garden worms, shrimps
and crays are very good bait. The usual way to get
shrimps and crays is to have a perforated kerosene-tin
primed with defunct meat, the more defunct the
better. A better plan is a roly-poly bush placed in 1
two or three feet of water. Give it a chance, and
then pull it out by the stalk. White tree 'grubs are
also O.K. bait. Chop them out of trees. But the
last word in bait is the ground grub. Get a square-
mouthed shovel and about three feet of steel wire with
a small crook on the end. Select your tree, and scoop
about an inch of the dirt away from underneath.
If you are lucky you will soon feel the grub with the
wire. A couple of turns and out comes the needful.
Once, on the Lachlan, I saw a chap pouring aniseed
on his bait. Everyone scoffed, but he was the only
one that caught fish that day.
The success of Boyd Edkins in the Bris-
bane hill-climb last week took the sting out of his
defeat by C. J. Munro in the same event a year
before. Edkins drove the 23.7-h.p. Yauxhall which
conveyed him in 16hr. 55min. from Melbourne to
Sydney. F. Eager’s 34.4-h.p. Overland rushed the
hill in 2min. 43 2-ssec., and won the fastest-time
honor.
* * * *
Billy Ripley’s defeat of Ben Thorough-
good in the N.S.W. heavv-boat championship at Ray-
mond Terrace on Saturdav. is a hint to the old ’un
to get into slippers. Ben has had a splendid record
in heavy-boats; but 48 years is a big handicap to
struggle against. Ripley's successes in the rough
water on May 6 and the last success in smooth water
stamDS him as a promising sculler. The Percy Marks
trophy went with the stakes and the championship.
> * * »
“Strike One” : There’s a fine, healthy row
brewing in the N.S.W. National Baseball League's
drawing-room. For many a day “rooters” and “fans”
have persisted in hurling colored epithets at the
umpire ; and this season the players have joined in
the gory howl at the wretched official. Of course,
this practice deserves the broadest axe, and unless the
Lea sue gets busy with the weapon, baseball is going
to finish in the mudheap. No umpire worth having
can be expected to tolerate abuse for ever. There is
yet time to clean things up, but none to waste on
thinking about it.
* * * »
Australia’s retired-champion chess-player,
Julius Leigh Jacobsen, has been mated by the defeater
of all champions. The final stages of the game were
played at the Prince Alfred Hospital, and his full
game was only 54 moves. Jacobsen, when only a
boy of 14, played amongst champions in England,
and Steinitz, then world’s champion, called him “the
bo.v prodigy.” He beat all the front-rank players in
Australia up to the time of his retirement; but with
the younger—and purely Australian —champions,
Spencer Crackenthorp and W. S. Yiner, he had not
tried championship conclusions. Yiner was his pupil.
There's no senior football in Hobart this
year, and to fiH the gap they are running a series of
cadet matches. The accepted theory in sporting
circles is that it’s an awful hardship for the public
not to have a football match to go to on Saturday
afternoons; but either the public does not care a red
cent about it or it doesn’t think cadet matches any
sort of a substitute. At the opening match there were
14 spectators to see the first quarter, and only two
or three more came in after that.
* * * *
“Mee-ow”: Owing to the war or some
other old thing, N. S. Wales coursing people are
finding it hard to obtain a supply of hares, and an
agonised official is advertising wildly for live ones at
£1 a pair. It seems to me that our Labor Ministry
should intervene. Could not Holman start a State
hare-breeding establishment for the benefit of
coursing clubs? As a side-line pigeons could be
raised ior the murderers of those birds. The State
raises trout for anglers to catch, so, if fish, why not
fur' and feather? Of course an establishment of
this sort would need a certificated man in, charge,
but the supply of certificated insolvents isn’t nearl)
exhausted.


Must You First Get a Beating
Before You Learn to Box?
vouLlf V? BOing ■ ° 150 a sensible thing? Be prepared to defend
yourself in a convincing way.
their nitur ii"°" b °" ma^e be most effective and scientific use of
their natural means of attack and defence. That is just one of the
an a, adl°nt.:l reaSOnS Why Y ° U Sh ° Uld be a Skilful Boxer and possess
K n ff ec a tt n ßox e er.° Ver 1 ~ ™ ke a Scientific and
I TEACH BOXING BY POST.
. So you’ve no excuse for remaining “crude” and
inexperienced—a good target for the first “bully” who
torments you.
lmvfr n ’?i, make , y° u . a cool, determined, scientific
boxer, with a substantial punch and effective guard—-
a manly man, well able to look after himself, and win
the respect of others.
And what a delightful pastime you’ll find my
tuition. And what a valuable exercise for body and
brain. Now that the Winter evenings have set in
what more fascinating and more useful sport is there
than Boxing?
lou don’t realise what you’re missing. If vou did
you d write for mv illustrated Booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” w'hich gives fuller particu-
cost of tuition, etc. Just write your name
and address across this advertisement, and post to me.
111 know what you mean. Send three penny stamps
for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
505 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
YOU’LL ENJOY MY
CIGARILLOS
I
JM
m
m
i
a,
A
i
s
•>iv,
f
Actual Size of Cigarillos
They are little cigars of
excellent quality. For a
short smoke —something be-
tween a cigar and a
cigarette—my cigar-
illos are just the
thing.
Mild and delightful
in flavor.
In three sizes but
ONE quality.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
2/6 2/5 2/-
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
5 6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No, No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100 —
(V.S.r. 6d.
Other States 80.
Write for a
Copy of my
Illustr a t e d
Catalog —-
Post Free.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Make Your Tour
a Success
By
Using
imnnniiif
Makes All Australia
Your Pleasure Ground
CATALoocre “o**
RHODES MOTOR CYCLE CO.Si
109-113 RUSSELL ST
MELBOURNE.
INSECTIBANE
BBSS
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
RIGNEY SHOES
are recognised as the very finest footwear
made, because of their beautiful lines and
high-grade, made-to-order qualities.
We illustrate a Patent Colt Oxford Shoe, a
very popular made-to-order style. The
brogue cap affords very reliable wear.
Price - 27|6
Also in Tan Velour Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“Yes, Sir!
HYPOL Means Health’
* -U ;; ' ■' • - - ■ : - h '• • i
f - * . ■cv : > , - ■ *
; ' •;
■ :
. V ' ' -
: <
■
■ n
* .<
:?4
:*
%
i »•'
it. ■
, .... . Jpp|||spß , f '. ;|| I ■
• .
■ . V■ X ■
»=;<‘ >.% V.'.' " •
% A $ ■' ’v» £. r v t i .
“HYPOL,” the Famous Emulsion for Chest Complaints
and Wasting Disorders. =— Price 2/6.
tfr
1
A
r d
26
aPFI
T
U%rJmk
■l*
r^*Cyw
m
'/%
m&
-
will keep you dry
in continuous rain.
The “Rubber-Duk” is absolutely waterproof. It
will keep you and your Saddle dust-dry even in the
fiercest tropical downpour. The “Rubber-Duk” has
been
SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR SADDLE-USE,
and this, combined with its rain-resisting capacity,
makes it an unbeatable Coat for Horsemen’s wear.
It is constructed in a Stout, Light-Brown Duck of
the Highest Grade Obtainable. The texture is
doubled throughout with a Sheet of Pure Rubber
inserted between the two thicknesses. An extra piece
extends over the chest, shoulders and bach. There
is a triple thickness where the Fronts meet when
they are buttoned, so no moisture can enter there.
The “Fan” protects the Saddle at back, and the Coat
buttons well over the Pommel in front. The Coat
is of ample length—is Australian made —and at the
price represents the limit of Value.
POST YOUR ORDER—WE PAY FREIGHT,
Lincoln,
Stuart & Go.
PTY. LTD
“ Specialists in
Outfitting by
Mail” *
Melbourne


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little ~
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.”. Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
CARTERS
SPITTLE
IVER
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
CHRISTIE^
SPrciALtse
TWO
L /TIES
Si# 5
FOR
CATALOGUE
/vN 0
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGE5 T SYDNEY
1C /iONTER 3 T NEWCASTLE
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILLS has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the world’s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Amongthese are
Bishop Taylor-Smith ( haplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, S J vat ion Army, etc.
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERS!L.L’S is rot to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any of
the coal-tar products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
Cor, of Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/-
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farrlngdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
CINCH
British
Made
Double-
Sided
RECORDS
A Sensation in
Price and Value
119 each
“What,” you will say, “Is. 9d. each for British Double-sided Records!”—
and at first you may think it impossible.
But when you hear your dealer play “CINCH” records it will be clear to
you that the seemingly-impossible has been achieved.
They’re superb—good titles and good artists! They’re durable—good
materials are used! They’re double-sided —don’t miss that fact! They’re
BRlTlSH—another important fact!
-—and the price is only Is. 9d. each. Think of the great saving you can
effect now.
The nearest talking-machine dealer should have “Cinch” records and record
lists. If he hasn’t he can quickly get them for you.
Write to us and we will tell you where they can be obtained.
“Cinch” Record Agency, 163 Pitt St., Sydney
Three Sizes—
IV2 H.p.
2 h.p.
H.p.
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
PropelLer is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDAIID, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions. 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks
Novelties. FREE™
i
1
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it a 8
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd »
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
FAMILY
CANTEENS
and Cabinets of Spoons and Forks and
the new rustless Knives we are showing
an immense stock of. Every combina-
tion of numbers one can think of is in
stock, and the quality is in every case
such as wear a lifetime. Spoons and
Forks we sold 40 years ago are still in
wear and perfectly good. The famous
“Fx. & R.” brand is the best known to
Science, and yet our prices are the lowest
in Australia for the highest quality.
Our blanks or bases, too, are made by
the latest process, which ensures uni-
formity and very special hardness.
FAIRFAXiROBERTS Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
lists
paipwi
; : ’ i 1 ’ 11 !
H|[|g||| 11)n ....
handsome Oak Canteen, containing 4
pieces, Very Heavily-plated on Hard ,
Metal Spoon* and Fork*, and Good,
termed Double Shear Steel Cutlery^
l/I*/-
£774/*
TjWs 80% diseouirt
SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring has come back to Europe once again
With daisies pied and skies of sunlit blue,
And sprouting shrubs and flowers of every hue,
White foam of hawthorn fringing every lane,
And young trees budding in the filmy rain.
But stay ! Is this the world the poets knew ?
This reeking trench? Those fiery shells that strew
Fragments of bodies o’er the shot-torn plain ?
Spring?
And yet the happy word will win its way,
For ere the long, long story has been told,
To lines of crouching men who wait the day,
Somewhere a sharp, commanding voice will say:
“The hour has struck ! Now for the strangle-hold !
Spring!”
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.
Adelaide Mail has been running a popu-
larity contest to decide the ten greatest
South Australians. The weak point about
these things is that there is no restriction
on plural voting, and that anybody can
be sent well up the list by a good-natured
friend who will spend a few pounds in buy-
ing the newspaper voting-coupons. Any-
way, for what it is worth, Edwin Smith,
municipal reformer of the past and philan-
thropist of the present, leads Chief Justice
Murray by 300 votes \ then come mon,
Glynn and Parsons, with Bonython dividing
them; Archbishop Spence, Premier Craw-
ford Vaughan, “Bill” Denny (the only
local Parliamentarian who has gone on
active service), and finally Professor Stirl-
ing, with 748 votes. Thus the ten consist
of a Judge and four other lawyers, a poli-
tician, a professor, a philanthropist, a news-
paper man and a priest.
Archbishop Riley, of Perth, passed his
62nd milestone the other day. Born at
Birmingham (Eng.) he had been a vicar
in Lancashire for some years before he was
imported in 1894 to wear the Anglican
gaiters at Perth. At that time, all W.A.
was in his diocese, but he organised and
cadged with sufficient persistence to split it
up into three other sees, all filled without
importation—Bunbury, under Bishop Gold-
smith, once Dean of Perth; North-west
Australia, under Bishop Trower, a one-
time Sydney rector; and Ivalgoorlie, under
Bishop Golding-Bird, from Newcastle
(N.S.W.). According to Anglican Church
law in Australia, W.A. became an ecclesias-
tical “province,” and Riley an archbishop,
when the fourth of these sees was formed in
1914. A son, who is a Rhodes scholar, went
from Cambridge to do his bit in Flanders,
but was captured and is how a prisoner of
war in Germany. Riley has bished longer
than any other Anglican prelate in the
Commonwealth; but he is younger than
Brothers Clarke, Pain, Stretch, Langley
and Cooper.
The Vic. State Governor has received a
testimonial from an unexpected quarter.
Speaking the other evening as the Labor
candidate for the Leg. Council vacancy
caused by the death of the late William
Fielding, James Disney, of South Mel-
bourne, said he advocated the abolition of
State Governors; but he added earnestly
that he had nothing whatever against the
present holder of the job, who had “proved
himself a time sport.” Thus Labor stubs its
toe on an old nail —so many incumbents of
our governing jobs are dashed good fellows,
wherefore the rotten old tooth is left in the
aching jaw for the sake of the fine gold that
crowns it.
The more the history of two years ago is
dug over the mote certain it looks that Ed-
ward Carson ought to stand alongside Roger
Casement. The fatuous lawyer who armed
the potential rebels of Ulster announced;
“When I go over to Ulster I intend to break
every law possible.... They may tell us if
they like that it is treason. It is not for
us to trouble about the cost.” It was the
Carsonite Morning Post that stated: “The
rule of Germany is to be preferred to that
of John Redmond.” Another of Carson’s
press barrackers, the Irish Churchman,
announced: “We have the offer of aid from
a constitutional monarch who, if Home
Rule is forced on the Protestants of Ire-
land, is prepared to send an army over to
attach Ireland to his dominions. Protest-
ants of Ireland will gladly welcome this
deliverer.” In 1913 the Belfast Evening
Telegraph, the leading Carsonite organ in
Ulster, mentioned proudly: “Sir Edward
Carson had the honor to receive an invita-
tion to lunch with the Kaiser last week at
Hamburg”; and in the same paper on
August 24, 1914, it was stated: “Sir Ed-
ward Carson has repeatedly said that if the
Government puts Home Rule on the statute-
book a Provisional Government will be set
ui). We look for the fulfilment of this pro-
mise.” This is the sort of sedition that was
talked and written for months by the Car-
son crowd. With what result? Carson
was given a seat in the British Cabinet!
“Walking Gentleman”: Has anyone kept
count of the archaic fancy dresses worn by
little Billy Hughes since he went to Eng-
land? Every time I pick up the paper I
see that he has been presented with the
freedom of the North Pole or the Atlantic
Ocean while wearing a fireman’s helmet
and a dressing-gown of brocaded silk with
a purple satin hood. When a professional
like myself is doing his darnedest to look like
a duke in chintz and cotton stockings in
legitimate drama, it is annoying to find that
a mere trifling amateur is being heaped with
splendid costumes. I’m hoping when Billy
comes back he will reorganise the Water-
side Union and dress it till it looks like the
Papal Guard. We could do with a bit more
color in Australia.
“Floater”: Bob Beaton, Scawtland’s
leading song-writer, was guilty of “The
Saftest o’ the Family,” probably the bright-
est thing in Harry Lauder’s repertoire. The
sight of a foolish youth being arrested in
Glasgie gave Beaton the inspiration for the
ditty, which he jotted down on a “dodger”
advertising someone’s margarine. Subse-
quently polished and set to music, it was
offered to Lauder for 7s. 6d. Harry said
he could only afford “seven shillin’s”; but
Beaton stuck out f<>r the extra saxpence.
Lauder eventually doled out the three half-
crowns, but was loud in his grief over his
fellow-countryman's “unnat’ral greed.”


A FEW POUNDS MORE
and what a wonderful difference in the result ! Some
people are so obsessed with the idea of paying the
smallest possible price for a piano that they forget that
high quality cannot be bought for low prices.
Have we not all heard the piano that is so starved and
tinny, that one has an instinctive feeling that the owner
is ashamed of it ? It stands there in the corner with
a neglected and rejected air.
It is a cheap instrument —it was cheap the day it was
bought, and it gets cheaper every day it lives —the owner
has lost interest in it, and won’t even have it tuned,
because it won’t stand in tune. A few more pounds
spent on, say
The BEALE PIANO
would have made all the difference. The tone, touch,
and quality would have been a delight, and the artistic
beautiful case would have been the centre of attraction
in the drawing-room.
We can make its purchase a very easy matter for you,
for we make a liberal allowance for the old instrument,
and give you what time you want for the payment
of the balance.
Call and let us show you the superb models of the Beale
Piano—they will bring an atmosphere of harmony into
your home that will make it a satisfaction and a soothing.
Mr OCTAVIUS C. BEALE, Founder and present Controlling Director
of this business, was born at Mt. Mellick, Queen’s County, Ireland,
of an old Irish family. The directors and managers throughout the
business are all descendants of British families for many generations.
There are no Germans employed in the business, and no supplies are
obtained from Germany.
BEALE & CO., Limited
HEAD OFFICE and FACTORIES:
41 - 47 TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Showrooms: 333 George St., Sydney. 232 King St., Newtown. And at Bathurst, Orange, Listnore. Newcastle,
C ulburn Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart;
Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide, QUEENSLAND: 90 92 Queen St., Brisbane; Kent St.,
Maryborough; Flinders St., Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydney St., Mackay; Cairns.


r
i m*
:-m
KEEPING
FIT
'Roman
Rings,
Dumbeils
and
Indian Clubs
will develop the
muscles and add to
the chest measurement
of the man who lives a
sedentary life and who
never takes exercise or
exerts himself physically,
but
f FISHERS
\
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
develops brain power, energy,
strengthens the nerves and
aids the digestion.
It also banishes Headache,
Backache, Malaria, Rheuma-
tism and Neuralgia, and
compensates the system for
the waste occasioned by too
violent exercise or prolonged
physical exertion.
STRONG IN DIGESTIVES
RICH IN PHOSPHATES
ALL CHEMISTS & STORES
•\J. per Bottle. Four times the quantity 2/6
Chemists,
337 CEORGE ST.. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
E155.P
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected Hew
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 OEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
+4.
\" .in
Df 3. Allens
VA;
Her
*. \
PACKET
\ -?
ifil
jivanajji
3m
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines manv nf
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles-X
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip o ur
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and. leather points
the long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
o anv port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct nmt
n the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
KING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet : in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers &. Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
Series
With
These
Bran<is
are HONEST SERGES- Pure
Wool, Fast Dye and Thoroughly
Shrunk. Such Serges, in Blue or
Black, never fail to give satisfactory
wear and to keep their appearance
GENUINE
FOX SERGES
have these brands stamped once in
every yard so that discriminating
buyers may recognise them at once
Made by Fox Bros, fit Co. Ltd., Somerset, Eng. II
you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally, write to the
agents: Stogdale fit Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest
storekeeper stocking it.
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of cases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, and similar complaints, the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating the delicate
and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must
be removed, and no treatment that does not
aim at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker 's Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing the cause, quickly affords relief, and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial: —
Capt. T. A, di Carteret, of the Victorian
Government Training Ship “Dart,” who suf-
fered severely from Rheumatism, writes
“Having used only three bottles of Dr. Parker’s
Rheumatic Remedy, I am pleased to say that it
has effected a complete cure, and I can thor-
oughly recommend it to anyone suffering from
Rheumatism.”
WRITE FOR PAMPHLET AND
TESTIMONIALS
(Post Free, 3d.),
OR SEND 5/6 TO-DAY,
and Medicine will be forwarded free to any
address.
F DARIfFR Daking House,
• rnnntllj R awson Place, Sydney
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
w
s'ign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/2CO Book, size 10t x
Bf, post free 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
(I
sgr
tf3>
Bovril makes other foods
nourish you. It has a
Body-building power proved
equal to from 10 to 20 times
the amount of Bovril taken.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heai a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect b tes or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F.C. CA LVERT & Co. , Manchester, Eh*
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home,
has incomparable qualities, an
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, i
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
horlicks
MALTED MILK
The ASTOUNDING POCKET.CAM**
With Materials tor Some Wonderful X-Ray
Th lS is one of the very *>>““»’[*” Pock et
every appearance of a bandsom &
Camera, with well-made extension bellows,
■ tba, you set up and adjust hke ‘be
apparatus. All your fnends w, 11
“ look pleasant ” while vou sn *f rings a
You open the shutter » n <*outJ \ scries
serpent. To a y PHOTOGRAPHS will
of undeveloped X-KAY
be sent with each Camera, so that, a er - their
friends, you can show them how ver Y , • no know-
skeletons are. Full instructions, anyone c com-
ledge of photography needed. Price TWO SHILLIW
plete and carriage paid to any address Melbourne,
T]ie UNION Company. 299 Ehzabeth_Stre£,—
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
2Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Fame and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contribytions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.A.R.: Don’t blame the Censorship for
that. The Censor doesn’t rob the post of Bulletins ;
he merely robs the proofs before the paper goes to
press J.J.: Sorry, but this paper doesn't give
advice on the question of buying or selling shares. ...
Legalised Robbery: What was the name of the
parson, his church, the amount of money ? Also, why
couldn’t a caveat be lodged? C.R.: Very well
written; regret to return....B. Sun: Not vigorous
enough.. ..N.M.: Not quite. A little thing like that
should be perfect in form... .L.D.: “Her Reward” is
a bit too thin and crude. ...F.T.8.: Nigger yarns too
small. Verse out of tune. —8. M.: Don’t like “Gal-
lipoleans” in either f0rm....8r0: Yarn doesn t raise
a smile H.L.D.: “L’Adieu” is poor, but the night
bee on the logan-berry seems fresh. .. .L.D.: Look at
the last five lines in print: —
The trenches run with blood. I see them in my
dreams,
And I also hear the drums and I also hear the
screams.
Poor Belgium is bleeding but Germany never
heeding,
Flings her shells into the night in France where they
fight,
Hurran for each Australian lad may he never come
to bad.
R.S.: You might do better T.V.8.: No
Tame Parson: Rotten verse....N.F.: “Pro Bono Pub-
lico” idea worked to death... .E.D.T.: “Attack of
desertitis” forgiven—it needed forgiveness Drink-
ing: Verse very middling... .Bill the Goose: But a
prophet should throw some light on dark things....
W.S.: You can’t rhyme “crawling” with “dawning”
nor “lecture” with “departure” in. this paper. You
can’t even rhyme Archdeacon Boyce and Stooke, the
liquor-trade man....Myah: Doesn’t strike u 5....
M.A.8.: Nothing in them R.E.8.: “The Haunters”
has a hint of merit. Set the brains to an Australian
tune and try again.. . .E.T.: Not suitable A.C.8.:
No g00d... .G.D.: Too anaemic. .. .Third Attempt:
Try to be more natural and less prosy... .A.P.F.:
Why set a sigh to a bumpy measure like that?....
A.E.P.: Too incoherent....M.W.K.V.: “Missing but
True” is very crude.. , .J.T.K.: Believe “eternity” is
used in your sense in Methodist revival meetings....
C.H.: Too long-drawn-0ut.... Stetson: Without a
glimmer.... V.F.: “Reverie” wail doesn’t move us.
. ...C.L.C.: Polish your verses. They bump like
new road-metal under a Chinaman’s dray.... Lila M.:
It misses... .R.C.S.: “Soldiers’ Day” hasn’t a point
in its favor.... Lek Devar: The debate of the cen-
turies is dull business.... AV.E.D.: You can do better
than that. Get your scansion right. .. .H.D.: “The
Moral Aftermath” is tedious... .A.G.M.: “Malta
Rainbows” of no interest. We don’t reprint....
J.R.C.: Clumsy work....Otia: Not quite... .Roto:
Avaunt!... JJeragoon: Sorry, not up.... D.A.M.:
Cast out with scorn.... Wm. Butters: No wonder you
have kings and queens falling over their feet to get
at you if you always write like this: —
Let the bushmen that round up the wild never never,
Shout the salvation chorus, and join in the sup ;
Show Australia a cub, that gnawing doth sever ;
Feed the dogs on the liver of Bill and His Pup.
. ...L.K.: You’ll grow up if you live long enough.
. ...A.E.C. : Thanks, but we don’t reprint....
J.H.C.S.: Meaningless prattle in prose and verse
about “Empire” leaves us frigid. ... N. MacD.: We
didn’t hesitate. The “firstling” is in the basket....
Robert Cluny: Verse not up. We can’t furnish you
with rules, but any bookseller can. Read good verse
models... .W.C.M.: It was threshed out once before.
Borax got the verdict... .F.8.N.: Bad verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.C.: Sorry unsuitable... .F.: Wooden and un-
original. .. .J. ILF.: Du 11.... H.R.: Factory-made art.
... .Newbegin: Very fair idea; thanks... .J.8.L.:
Old, with some feeble scratches... .R.E.G.W.: Take it
away.... A.Y.: About 20 years too late... .E.V.J.:
Where did you dig up that old gag ?. ... L.H.T.: The
miserable lady fails to hide her badly-drawn hands.
“Bill O’Costs’’ from the table:—
Which is the greater infliction, the loquacious
Judge or the silent one? Clients groaning in the
waste of time, witnesses cooling their heels in
waiting, the forlorn parties behind the spikes of the
criminal court —all these would welcome the auto-
matic, voiceless Judge. Counsel, on the other hand,
would vote heavily for the talker. He at least
lets them know what he thinks, and gives them
time now and then to fake up a new line of argu-
ment. Facile princeps among the garrulous ones was
Way, C.J., of S.A. The little man chattered inces-
santly upon points of law and etiquette and ancient
State history, rattled off personal reminiscences of
Great Persons and pedigrees, issued frequent direc-
tions to the associate and the tipstaff, and all the
while in some marvellous way kept a finger on the
question at issue. A corner of his mantle seems to
have dropped on Duffy, J., of the High Court, who
keeps up a good-natured fire of comment, question
and banter, accompanied by a broad Irish grin.
Yet when Duffy, J., was at the Bar the. tears he shed
over “the astounding loquacity of the Bench” were
salt as brine. Brother Isaacs does his bit, too ; but
his is always dead-serious, disputatious talk, begin-
ning: “Suppose, Mr. So-and-So,” and pushed home
with a monitory forefinger. He suggests a hawk
arguing the point with a rabbit. The belt for
capacity in saying nothing goes to Buchanan, the new
puisne Judge of S.A. “Buck” can sit dumb for
days, looking as impassive as a cheese, listening to
the argument, rhetoric and vain repetition of the
hired wind-merchants, without giving the least indi-
cation of how his mind is working. In the end he
is as likely as not to give judgment in favor of the
exhausted advocate who thought he had failed to
make an impression. Griffith, C.J., of the High
Court, suffers patiently as a rule, but has a way
of stroking Lis whiskers which the more intelligent
bores are quick to take notice of.
He was filled with the fire that charmed all the
ladies;
Quite heroic in style; and a champion to drag;
Proud recited the tale that quite suited the Saidies;
Sky pebble that glistened hot scone keen to brag.
“It is stated in error that largest battalions”
“Do carry the seal and the banner of God.”
“That isn’t correct, for all first prize medallions
“Adorn the small crowd, sad praying who nod.”
To Hell with tradition that makes of us dreamers ;
Let us spit on our hands, and bog in the job ;
’Tis the rattle machine painting red all the streamers,
That’ll put “hymns of hate” on their quite correct
hob.


mmmmm
A odzm-BrtvrcrySzrits -Aka
y
*
J
«+*
***
J
rc y
wm.
--
||gc7M|l|gPll
jwwSxssS-*
*rs?
3 ®
k, '
c
m
3
7TF
ff
E=
T 3
x\' 1 a
A-
\-\
_ - \
jj ] j -"-a
IAM
AT__
4
t=s
~X.7
. y
IE
1
-_irJ=y
■^vy
A
tE
->U‘W—ni BA
-» r i:-r
AAy
y
Kva.
fc.An
=SM?J a
■ 2 r_ &n; i,-:
: £ -_Jf. a
w
S£F
~ ?cfy||7'4^
uMi 354
r~=
,=vl
w M
ti-
&
)' '.vt?
t;
Ml
1
;
m
JL
E
- \|
-Jlpa>4
jWF
T>
M&U
«.-=
._
v 5
&5
- H
o
e
Sli'c'-l
&
o
o
o
$
-S'
5r
)
m
0
o
it,
P 3
•<
U)
\ m
+
K
&
A
<V
7
&ht
■ m
W
cJL
Jn
J
*^n
y
syy
ill
a
The Courtyard at the Kent
Brewery, showing some of the
many vehicles used in transporting
the Company’s products in the City
and Suburbs.
The Despatch Department also
controls a number of Motor
Trucks which are not shown in
the drawing.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hanking, I*u!>lic Compair.es. &c..
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1 /-
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3| per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are,
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
x h i:
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen V ictoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PATD-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George&King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS- —Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman:
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Ageneies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world: C. M. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Depos.it Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. j James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H, Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney' and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ~ 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Direr, lots:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ivater, M.L.C. • • Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses. M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C, T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dirrs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world,;
Bank of Oeui Z ea l an <L
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. 750,000
i Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . . . - . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
aL. Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins !)<• Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MOAN A, 22nd June. *MAITAI, 20th July.
Connecting Steamers leave Sydney 15th June, 13th July.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
The Paradise
of the Pacific. ”
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura. i
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
Winter T cufsto Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, applv,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME ♦
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAM OA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
JUNE 21, JULY 12, AUG 2, AUG 23.
AppIy:—OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
COLORED POST-GAUDS, bv Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of sis. posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ liimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN POUTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Aiui All Ports.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
WALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,500.000
£2,600.000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G..
M.L.C'., Pfesident.
Robert Lionel Faithfujl, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Ihe Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, i. .M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
„ Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.’; Alfred George Milson, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office 29 Threadneedle St . E C
044 Brandies and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and; Correspondents throughout the world. nuon -
Cable remittances made to,, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
T RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Bustralia
■
Open
for all
General Banking- Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
; Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1 -
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at 9 0/
per annum <5/ 0
up to £3OO
JAMES K EL!..
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
Ijeputy Governor. June, 191 n DENIS >N MILLER. Governor
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
express passenger service ,
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUS il
VICTORIAN anU QUEENSLAND
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT PIRIE
And GULF FORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, July i ail( j
July 29.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cair
ARA, June in
PARINGA, June 17
iIORIALTA, Jun e 17 24
Saloon P<isScig6 Tickets arp inf i
the first Port of call with other Inter Stalfr*" 6 aftcr
on all services subject to co n ,lition S S w£«S o,npani «
ascertained on application at the Co.npan y -s Offi" be
G. S. YI'ILL & CO., J/ri)
Agents - 6 I!l£ "JCh STliiilCT. SYDNEY,
Australian StcamshipsLine
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE
Sailings as follows (circumstances
permitting) ;
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma AVharf.)
MACIiAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this anrl other
Queensland ports).
mouth.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
J.i aves Sydney June 10.
BOM BALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 14
Leaves Sydney June 17,
C'AXBEBHA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 21
Leaves Sydney June 24."
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and VT.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tom)
Leavco Sydney June IT.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc. from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
Lnited Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPER lOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke-Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric' Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH.
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
I“HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lar] v to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BiiLLINGIiK,
NAMBUCC'A, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS: also to RYRON RAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumban,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
-ti-amer. CO B>. on.: second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel n.
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and coin-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. Atte
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets ar
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, as
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji xraae,
particulars on application. For dates of sailing
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Colonial mutual [lie
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Foa
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments aau
Annuities without Mutual Liability: alt
Accident. Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
41U & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOUR-
Accumulated Lunds, £3,445,000. ncnnnOOO.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed T n de'feas-
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable,
Premiums moderate and without restriction
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributee.
Chief Office fok New South " A ': E ., V
28 ELIZABETH STREET, S*D>E
Directors . ~ rhainn an *
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Ch
tie Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the cen"* 6
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES [wcaK QIRHT
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SWH
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road London, an
Insist on “ Sineleton s' -refuse all substitutes.


AH Tool and Machinery Problems Solved
at MS-Plierson^
Proprietary Ltd
M w T^ rac ! e 00^s ar| d Machinery for every conceivable use, from the most expensive
ac me 001 for the Modern Engineering Workshop down to the every=day Garden Trowel.
ur stock presents money=saving opportunities to Farmers, Graziers, Blacksmiths and Tool
sers in every trade, even to the household man raising a few vegetables for his own table. If you cannot
visi us, p ease give us an opportunity to make you acquainted with our price of any tools you require.
Will It Pay?
This is an age which, above all,
prides itself on being practical.
In the Engineering World, the lirst
instinctive question regarding the
increase of workshop plant is “Will
it Pay?” Everything must be
demonstrated in cold percentage of
profit on investment.
Profit on Machinery is determined
by your ability to turn out work.
Your ability to underbid on closely-
figured jobs depends on the capacity,
convenience and speed of your
machines.
Modern Machine
Tools Do Pay.
They are proved cost reducers,
despite the increase of capital cost,
power and wages; more satisfaction
is given by the machinist, too. It
will pay you to investigate our stock
of Modern Machine Tools. Start by
getting Catalogue “M 9” Gratis.
Engines
Lubricated
at Half Cost.
The illustration shows the “Detroit”
Single Connection Lubricator for
Traction and Portable Engines, etc.
We claim for the “Detroit” equal
service to that of lubricators costing
double the money elsewhere.
Size £pt. Jpt. ipt. Pt. Qt.
Brass
Finish 30/- 32/0 36/- 50/- 60/-
Pipe
Thread iin. Mn.
Whatever your requirements in
Lubricators, Packings, Steam Fit-
tings, Pulleys, Belting, or any
Engine Supplies, give us an oppor-
tunity to prove the efficiency of our
service. Catalogue Gratis.
Please Mention this advt. when writing.
This Bench soon
Saws a Big Stack
of Firewood.
For all-round work on Farm and Station, and for Firewood Merchants,
this Saw Bench has no equal.
It is an up-to-date Bench, and quite the best value on the market.
Travelling Table is made from angle and sheet iron. Cannot shrink.
Can neither tilt nor cant when placing heavy logs on the bench. The
trouble with ordinary benches—that of wood stays shrinking—has been
overcome by providing long wedges, which can be driven at any time, thus
preventing a rickety bench.
Special Iron Bow prevents accidents from saw dragging in block when
cutting short lengths. Complete with 30in. Saw. Price on Request.
1:1 J
Drill A
Post 8 Bench Drilling Machines
For Hand or Power.
Fortin.Straight Hand Drills.
POST DRILL—
“A”—DriIIs f-inch hole to centre of 12-inch circle.
Hand power, 35/-
“B” —Drills 4-inch hole to centre of 12-inch
circle; hand power, self feed, double geared, 45/-
“C”—Drills 1-inch hole to centre of 14-inch circle;
hand power, self feed, double geared, 52/6
“D” —Drills lj-inch hole to centre of 16-inch
circle; hand power, self feed, double geared, 70/-
“E”—Ball-bearing thrust; drills l|-inch hole to
centre of 15-inch circle; with fast and loose
pulleys; hand or power, self feed, 75/-
“H”—Ball-bearing thrust; drills li-inch hole to
centre of 18-inch circle; with fast and loose
pulleys; hand or power, self feed, 97/6
BENCH DRILL “G” —Drills hole to centre
of 15-inch circle; hand .power, self feed, 65/-
Tubes 8 Fittings
fcr Water, Gas 8 Steam. Large Stocks.
PUMPS FOR ALL SERVICES.
It doesn’t take much to install a water service for supplying kitchen,
bathroom and stock troughs—at least not at our prices. Sketch us a
rough plan where your water supply is, and where you want to pump it.
Send it along and we’ll send our Price.
Catch Winter Rain for Summer Use.
Use the Solid Steel
Earth Scoop. Cuts its
way quickly and is light
and strong. Fitted with
Steel Runners, Detach-
able Handles and Heavy
Ball. 3 cubic feet, 37/6;
5 cubic feet, 40/-; 7
cubic feet, 42/6.
□
f 1
&SON
Pruning Tools.
We stock Full Pruning Outfit.
Secateurs from 1/- each.
Pruning Knives, 1/6, 2/6, 3/3.
Branch Gutters, 3/3 to 8/3.
Saws from 2/- each.
Ask for “PRUNING POINTS,” a fine article by Government expert,
free; also shows our full range of Pruning Tools.
WON ACE
Too/s are Profitable
for Cultivation.
Horse Hoes, Harrows, Cultivators, for Market Gardeners,
General Farmers and Fruit Growers. We have 38 varieties. Ask for
“Iron Age” Booklet.
Woodworking and Garden Tools made by the World’s Leading Makers.
Write us for Any Tool ycu require.
Proprietary Limited
For Tools ©y All Trad
554-66 (&L 582-88 Collins St., Melbourne
r
Also
51-65 Bathurst St.,
Sydney.
We Stock the Full Line of
SAGAR Wood-
Working Machines
If you use, or intend using, Wood-working
Machinery, make it a point to see SAGAR
MACHINES under every-day working conditions.
See their capacity, and the quality of the work
they produce, get the opinion of the man who uses
them.
Sagar Wood-working Machines
are Built for Business.
In their construction nothing is skimped—nothing
half done in the endeavor to produce a “low-priced”
machine. From what we know, Sagar quality is
insurance against breakdown—the element that
turns many a machine into an unprofitable
investment. Investigate!
Catalogue “M 8” Gratis.
Do You Come to a Full
Stop for Days when a
Plough Part Snaps ?
Wise Farmers buy “STAR” Forges because,
when a bolt or some simple part snaps in a Reaper
and Binder, Harvester, Drill, Thresher or Plough,
the man without a forge is at once dependent on
the blacksmith —perhaps delayed for days. With
a forge handy, and an idea of the rudiments of
forge work, these stoppages (which are most
expensive in the busy season) can be avoided.
In addition, all kinds of repairs can be done to
harrows and small tools, as well as the making of
hinges, hooks and useful ironwork for scores of
jobs about the place.
Write for Particulars and Prices of our
“STAR” Forges.
Wise Farmers Clip Horses Too!
Horses need clipping just as they do shoeing—
the veterinary will tell you so.
Get a “Stewart” Clipping Outfit for 42/6,
and do the work yourself. It’s quite simple—all
the help needed is a “Coy to turn the handle.
Send for Illustrated Booklet.
We Manufacture
BOLTS and NUTS.


The spirit of patriotism shone in Mel-
bourne on King George's Day, golden and
l’esplendent like shining armor, especially
where assisted by that wise and patriotic
spirit. King George IV. topnotch Scotch.—
Advt.
IF FOOD DISAGREES, DRINK HOT
WATER.
When food lies like lead iu the stomach
and you have that uncomfortable, distended
feeling, it is because of insufficient blood
supply to the stomach, combined with acid
and food fermentation. In such cases try
the plan now followed in many hospitals
and advised by eminent specialists of taking
half a teaspoonful of ft is united magnesia
in half a glass of water as hot as you can
comfortably drink it. The hot water draws
the blood to the stomach, and the bis u rated
magnesia, as any physician or chemist can
tell you. instantly neutralises the acid and
stops the food fermentation. Try this
simple plan and you will he astonished at
the immediate feeling of relief and comfort
that always follows the restoration of the
normal process of digestion. Soldiers at
the Front and travellers who are frequently
obliged to take hasty meals poorly prepared
should always take two or three five-grain
tablets of ftisurated magnesia after meals
to it re vent fermentation and neutralise th>'
acid. —Amt.
Latest Novelty for a Present
The Steel Lined
Pocket Book **ith
Two Pockets for Papers
Strongly made. Tan teathei
Covers, Steel Plate in each-will
stop a bullet. Preserves docu-
ments. Ideal gift for soldiers
Price
12/6
Postage
6d.
Extra
Send for latest List of Gifts to select from.
ROTHWELL'S LTD.,
EDWARD STREET
BRISBANE
“Champion” Machinery
Has no Equal on the MarKet.
Steel Stone
Crushers. Steel
Wiard Road
Plows. Wheel and
Drag Scoops,
Road Rollers,
Road Graders,
Concrete Carts,
Concrete Mixers,
Steel Tubular
Barrows, etc.
Carotin Machinery Co.
STANLEY STREET, WEST MELBOURNE,
and
Angel Place, Sydney.
ADELAIDE & BRISBANE.
m
V
if
¥
Shun Unbranded Underwear
—look for the Brand that guarantees
British make and quality
99
44
L nderwear
I he Brand “Jason " on a garment
is a guarantee of unshrinkability, com-
fort, perfect fit, and unrivalled finish.
New •’Olympic’* Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower hues containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 69 <p
IN BANANA LAND
Toowoomba is wiping its eye over the
passing of its oldest inhabitant, Charles
Cocks, who had reached tbe 92 mark. lie
was English born, and first saw Australia in
'59. He established and successfully ran
saw-mills and flour-mills. Between whiles
he helped the Darling Downs municipally.
By the way, there’s a stripling in the Dun-
wich old-people’s asylum who took himself
and his 78 years into the Home Secretary's
office the other day seeking a railway pass,
lie wanted to go to Sydney to see bis
mother.
Three more long-distance men dropped
into Charters Towers recruiting office last
week. Alex. Nelson and Eric Armstrong
came from Boulia. 620 miles away: and
Arthur Preston lost two horses from thirst
on his long trek of 860 miles from Birds-
ville.
"Rosua’s” line from London :
The Vernon Redwoods have arrived in this isle
from Italy, with a grand-opera voice apiece, which
they have been polishing for a couple of years in
that critical country. He, tou remember, was once
in the Sugar State's Parliament, besides being Lord
Candlestick-in-Waiting to most enterprises in Too-
woomba. He had contested some 30 elections of
one sort and another in Australia before setting
off after a musical career. Who says we’re not an
enterprising people? Anyway, they're a fine-looking
pair, and as their fop notes have been raised in
leading operatic parts abroad you may expect to
hear more of them, in spite of the noise the war
makes.
“W.E.A.”: The Workers’ Educational
Association is to be domiciled in the old
fire-brigade station and not 'iu the Normal
School, as stated by “Ebb" (IS/5/T6i.
This is not the first attempt to establish a
branch of the Association. University heads
and the Education Department took up tbe
idea some years ago. but somehow the horny-
handed ones didn’t respond, only eight of 39-
odd unions affiliating. One class in eco-
nomics got under way. and is still struggling
with supply and demand. Recently Minister
Hardacre became interested, with the result
that there has been a wish to get into the
limelight. But those who originally took up
Mansbridge's idea and really kept it going
have been overlooked.
“Viking” : The Shire Council was heatedly
debating log versus concrete culverts. The
President favored the conservative, methods
of his forefathers, and produced some
alleged time tests. The tallness of the
story annoyed an excitable councillor, 'who
rapped out: "Mr. President. I think you're
a liar.” The President demanded a prompt
apology. The daring member rose. "Mr. Presi-
dent,” he said, "when you told this council
that log culverts lasted three times as long as
concrete culverts I called you a liar. I
reiterate that remark.” The President re-
sumed his feet. "Any man.” he remarked
affably, “might get excited and angry and
say somethin’ he oughtenter: but when,
’avin’ said somethin’, ’e says he wishes
to reiterate it. why, o’ course, I accept his
apology.”
The Moon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ob, the moon is a wonderful landscape
painter !
She smooths the creases from tumbled
hills,
Makes the scar on the brown cliff’s side
grow fainter,
And a tress of silver across it spills.
She dips her brush in the ocean's shimmer.
She draws it over the plough-scored field.
Till the spider webs with the dewdrops
glimmer,
And silver harvest the furrows yield.
Oh, the moon is a wonderful landscape
painter!
She tricks my eyes through the window
pane,
And the murk of tbe city roofs seems
fainter.
.Vs she takes and turns them and builds
again.
Factory chimneys and backyard fences
She shapes to castle and spire and dome:
For the moon has a thousand rare pretences
To give the soul of the artist home.
While the dreaming world for her canvas
poses,
To the heart's grey garden she comes at
night
And takes the petals of dry. dead roses.
And lures them back to their living white!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. June 3. 1916.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
This has been chiefly a week with the gee-
gees. On Wednesday the Queensland Cup
was run, and all Brisbane that could give
the boss the sack got into its best hat and
frock, snatched tin- little housekeeping
money the butcher’s bill had left, and pro-
ceeded to back also-rans with great enthusi-
asm. To-day the Moreton Handicap was
the big event, and, judging by the numerous
tickets that littered the township like six-
o’clock tracts, punters were undergoing tbe
usual slaughter.
His Ex. and Lady Goold-Adams bestowed
their usual patronage on the Cup. The
Governor whistled up a pack of brother
punters for luncheon, and in the afternoon
the hospitable I. J. Moore pair tea-ed a
large party of friends.
To-day the vice-regal pen was empty, but
mobs of the squattocracy rounded up each
other on the lawn, where numbers of
wounded soldiers were busy losing their hard-
earned back-pay. By the way. secretary
Morry Baldwin hands out passes to all appli-
cants with regimental colors stitched on their
sleeves.
On Tuesday night the Musical Union ren-
dered Rossini's "Stabat Mater”, to a packed
"BE MODERATE."
SHE: "Arc you married. Mr. Jones?"
HE: "Oh. — er—nothing to speak of!"
Exhibition Hall. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson
clothed her slim figure in emerald green and
gold, and Lena Hammond's rich contralto
was housed in a wonderful frock of sapphire-
blue velvet, with billows of sapphire-blue
ninon and flounces of silver lace.
Private Archie Morrison, of the Fighting
Ninth, who was injured in the spine by a
shell and has been convalescing slowly
at the Kangaroo Point Hospital, set out
under the escort of a couple of chums for
his home near Longreach on Thursday. He
is still a fighter: to regain his strength he
regularly practised dumb-bell exercises in
bed. and is now learning to walk with the
aid of two chairs.
Their Exes, attended a successful skating
carnival in aid of the War Nurses’ Fund on
Saturday night. The Mayors of Brisbane
and South Brisbane, Major Pendlebury and
pretty Mrs. Pendlebury sat in the seats of
the mighty. Mrs. Stodart (mother of
Lt.-C-01. "Bob" Stodart) and the returned
soldiej-s were responsible for the Carnival.
Blaine Love, of Glen Kedron. wears a
diamond on her shapely little hand. Twigg
Patterson, a Melbournite who is a captain
in the A.1.F., was glad to pay for it.
Another engagement is that of the hand-
some Miss Cecily Doneley, of Toowoomba,
and Andrew Scott, of Hornet Bank and
Gallipoli.
Mrs. de Little, president of tbe Wool
Spinning Guild and convener of the 25th
Battalion Comforts Fund, is working hard
to make a success of Golden Fleece Day,
which is to help both funds. The other
morning she sold miniature bales of wool
on Central Station. There was a touch of
irony in the fact that amongst the pur-
chasers were a number of woolbuyers who
were leaving by tin- Sydney express on
account of tbe Government embargo on
export.
The Red Cross Kitchen is now one of the
show places of Brisbane. A flushed little
lady mentioned casually the other day that
she had just baked 624 scones for the mili-
tary hospitals. Buckets full of custard and
jelly and other dainties are whizzed away
dailv on the big motor for the convalescing
Billjim.
The Soldiers’ Comforts Fund, which
never makes any fuss about its work, lias
just packed another 112 cases for men on
active service. Over .500 cases have been
sent away in the last few months.
The two popular Ilipwood girls were
at home on Thursday afternoon to about
two hundred friends, in honor of Vera's
approaching marriage to W. P. Watts. The
reception rooms were massed with pink and
white roses. Mrs. Mark Harris exercised
her soprano during the afternoon.
Donald Simpson, a popular station man-
ager who now wears a corporal’s stripes in
the 34th Battery, Aust. Field Artillery, has
hoisted an engaged signal on the finger of
Dora Connolly, a Gympie girl who now lives
in Sydney.
Died suddenly this week, at the Bellevue
Hotel, Brisbane, P. L. Cardew, a well-
known solicitor who had practised busily
in Inswich for over 35 years. Hewas. besides,
a director of numerous companies, and
in bygone days was a keen polo player. His
son is in France with the A.1.F.. and both
daughters are married, one to a son of
•fudge Real and tbe other to R. C. Unearth
of Toowoomba. •
Tim is the kind of thing that is always
liable to happen to people who live far from
the conveniences of civilisation. A nun in
a hard-working Island mission suffered badly
lrom toothache. .V lay brother managed t'n
extract the teeth, but all efforts to manufac-
ture an artificial set were of no avail \ t
last it was decided to send the sufferer this
way to a dentist. The mission being in pool-
circumstances it was difficult to find the cash
necessary for the long and expensive journey
but it was done, and the nun was made
happy and set out for her post. The steamer
landed her at the port nearest to the mission
station, and she made the rest of the journey
in a trading cutter. All went rvell till almost
within sight of home. Then, the sea rising
suddenly, the unfortunate sister became sea-
sick and in her hurry to lean over the side
forgot' all about the teeth which had been
obtained at so much trouble and expense
and away they went into 25 fathoms Of
water. They are still there.
Alma, one of the pretty Gerish girls of
Warwick, who has been on a visit to Bris
bane, has left her heart here. Alec, soldier son
of the late 11. E. Maxwell-Whyte, Lieut-
Col. in the Black Watch —he died in South
Africa —is the lucky man. Dad was a giant
popular in society years ago, and son Alee
follows well in his footsteps. - lie can tack
B.A. on to his name, when lie feels in-
clined, and is always to be found where the
clans gather and the bagpipes skirl. Then-
will be a Highland wedding in a couple of
months.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The Bash still breeds them. W. H. Bart-
lett. of Blackall, was a victim of the drought
of 1.1 years ago, and had to seek refuge in
bankruptcy. Last week he dropped into
Rockhampton to inform the Court that lie
had now saved enough money to pay all his
old creditors in full, and he wanted the
Court to help him unload the burden.
Squatter Canny, of Biltominnie, who
has the back yards of three States in his
•Kin sq. miles, drifted into Rockhampton the
other day-. He started work in the bac-kblocks
of South Aus. at eight, and, having since
put in another 59 years in the silent West,
decided to celebrate bis jubilee by a trip to
"Rocky." But lie soon felt lonely, and
bought 70<l bullocks to go with him on the
long track home.
"Bill”: The politicians’ habit of appoint-
ing Royal Commissions may be a mighty
dangerous infringement of the liberty of
tbe subject. Common law accepts the prin-
ciple that "no man shall be vexed twice in
the same matter."’ Brisbane Daily Mail
published certain charges against the admin-
istration of Hoodna Asylum under Dr. holler-
ton. A Royal Commission cleared the
medico. He then sued Wren, as owner of
the paper, for libel, and got damages to the
tune of £3500. not to speak of costs. It's
as sure as hens were chickens that any jury
that might try such a case would be influ-
enced by the findings of the Royal Commis-
sion.


X, x,.
■ >
m
ms
I
d
t
■v
>
i
o
As.
H
awa


Geo. E. Keith
“PARIS”
Model.
“One of the Best.”
A Distinctive Model by Geo. E. Keith.
An admirable style for dress wear.
Very fine finish. Light welted soles
and that smart, long shape desired by
the well-dressed. Quarter- and half-
sizes.
37/6.
We Pay Postage.
Write for Catalogue.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
*
,
The Secret
of Her
Beauty
and that of thousands of
the most admired women
all over the world
is that they always use
the famous British-made
Iciima Cream. Just a
little every day rubbed
on face, hands, neck and
arms makes the skin
delightfully soft and
smooth, protects it from
weather effects, and gives
it that natural bloom and
transparency which every
woman longs to p ssess.
It also gives relief irom
insect bites and stings.
Iciima Cream is differ-
ent from any other cream,
because it (and it alone)
contains the wonderful
Iciima Natural Water.
This stimulates the skin
to natural beauty, and
makes the little oil cells
supply just the right
amount of natural oil to
keep it smooth and sup-
ple. Fragrant and non-
greasv. Use it daily and
look your best.
Cream
(Guaranteed not to grow hair).
Price 1 6 per pot.
Of Chemises, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Siima.
J. C. Gamb'es A Co., Sole Australian
Agents. 11 Commerce House.
Melbourne
Ti" any illustration appearing in The
Hvixetin takes jour fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
wo HD
5o 3)o
I f|
IHINfrJ
TaiCe
th&m
Afternoon tea means afternoon chat,
The subjects are varied — they’ll see to
that.
The last new book—the latest plays
break dances and the ragtime craze,
The subject of ‘Jelloids of course, Is
raised.
And though h e say it—they’re always
praised.
After taking IRON ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed, Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Miss H. Foley, Brixton, writes. —“Iron ‘Jelloids’ are indeed a splendid
“tonic and very pleasant to take. I shall always recommend them to
“anyone who is run-down.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children. No. 1.- Sold in England at 1/lJ and 2/9 per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence d Market Sts., Sydney.
How to Treat Your Hair aad Complexion.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well. I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that, you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
m
XSWK-
Photo: Wrather S Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with, bet
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it?—stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum : dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy .Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It fs very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist's, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But. on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To kill Roots of .Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how-
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so tna
the growth will not return. About an ounc
of pheminol. obtainable from the chemis,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People,
omething New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: ■•‘The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
elyuol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise. swearing baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendencv.
which is usually constitutional, to cie _‘
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever j
caused by .their action: in fact, excep
the loss of superfluous far and the tee
of "tituess” so created, you would n 0 .
aware that these little berries were a »
their work. .
I.ocal inquiry shows that clynol
not very well known in this couutiy
the demand is increasing daily, and
chemist can quickly procure them if S P L
requested to do so.
If any illustration appearing in
Brums takes your fancy, write to 1
Manager, who w ill quote you price for it.
Balfour, in a recent speech, informed
All Whom It May Concern that such pre-
cautions had at length been taken as would
make attempts to raid the English east
coast “extremely dangerous.” It is now,
therefore, to be understood that any Ger-
man cruisers attempting such attacks will
do so entirely at their own risk.
“Dumper”: The English Government's
recent order prohibiting the export of cine-
matograph films is said to have a pretty
story behind it. The authorities found bits
of a film which had formed part of an
incendiary bomb that had been dropped from
a Zeppelin. Examination of the fragments
proved it to have been exported from Eng-
land since the beginning of the war. So
now nobody can export the inflammable
stuff without a special license, which requires
renewal every three months.
Dropped the reins the other day, Frank
Webster, who had spent 41 years out of
his total of G 2 in driving coaches on the
llobart-Huon road, and in that time had
met a hundred thousand tourists. He had
the name of being the best five-horse team
driver in the State and he needed it all
sometimes —especially once when his team
shied at a motor-car and started down a
precipice with 25 passengers on board. He
kept the coach right side up and brought
it out more or less together and with the
passengers all alive.
“Machete” begins to think better of his
old friend, the Papuan nigger:—
Egypt harbors more deadly and ghastly diseases
than any other country I’ve even read of. Putting
on one side ophthalmia and the venereal diseases, all
of a particularly virulent type, you can choose from
plague, smallpox, typhus, enteric, malaria, Nile
fever, baharzia and leprosy. Plague (the very fatal
pneumonic variety, too) is endemic in the district I
inhabit at present, 36 cases having been reported
last week. Typhus, a disease of filth and rare in
civilised communities, is very common in the welter-
ing country hovels, and Mohammedan and Copt alike
cheerfully encourage the breediug of the scourge's
chief disseminator, the louse. In sanitation and
bodily cleanliness the average Papuan cannibal can
lose this crowd. Leprosy is not isolated, and the
affliction is a recognised source of livelihood. Mal-
aria and Nile fever are closely akin, while baharzia
is a disease of the kidneys caused by a minute
water flea which penetrates the skin of bathers in
the river and its canals. The disease is practically
incurable, the sufferer gradually wasting away. Yet
some people visit Egypt for health!
“D.F.”: The old gaol and police build-
ings at Sorell (Tas.) were pulled down
lately; and that was a pity, because they
harbored the best joke of the bad old days.
When the place was young, in 1825, a
gang of escaped convicts from Macquarie
Harbor, led by the engaging ruffian Mat-
hew Brady, were making things particu-
larly warm for the upholders of law and
order about Sorell. A party of soldiers, de-
tached to round up the evildoers, scoured
the country without getting any further
ahead, and began to think Brady and the
rest of them had moved off. But one even-
ing. when the soldiers were busy at the bar-
racks cleaning their muskets. Brady and
his men fell on them unawares and made
them all prisoners. After that the bush-
rangers opened the gaol, let out all the in-
mates and replaced them with the soldiers,
the police, the magistrates and any other
citizens who might be suspected of a dispo-
sition to interfere. Then they commandeered
the liquor, painted the village with jimjams,
and departed next day with sore heads and
the honors of war. A little later this same
Brady attempted to capture Launceston by
assault, but the enemy was too strong for
him. and he came to the usual rope’s end.
“Paddymelon”: Paper bark for packing
eggs is not new. Some 20 years ago the late
J. D. Campbell. M.L.A. for Moreton —
the man who brought some of our splendid
timbers to the front—took out or applied
for a patent for chaffing it to pack fruit.
The scheme failed only because the cost of
stripping and chaffing was too high. Inci-
dentally. mangrove bark for tanning is a
success, but the cost of procuring it is a
facer. This might be overcome if the
swampy ground where the mangrove
flourishes was planted with eocoanuts at
the time the bark was collected. The cocoa-
nut tree will grow with its roots in salt
water.
“Leo Lear” for the defence:—
All Australia is in need of conscription, but in
singling out the Western district of Victoria as
being in extra need thereof, “Mil” (B. 18 5 'l6) ha 3
spilt his ink on the wrong spot. Taken as a mass
the locality, especially the squatter portion that
“Mil ' orates upon, has rolled up handsomely. Any
old gibe is good enough to hurl at the fat Western
landholder, of course, but in regard to recruiting the
evidence for the West is down in black and white. I
don t pretend to know one half of the stations that
have representatives at the Front, but I can guarantee
that the following squattages have one or more of
the family somewhere: ArmUage, Mackinnon, Russell,
Currie, Stewart, Bctterill, Henty, Smith, Phillip,
Robertson, Manifold, Ross, Shaw, Austin, Bell,
Bridges, Thomey, Ritchie, Hope, Cooke, Cumming,
Learmonth, Lindsay, Armstrong, McArthur. Mclntosh.
Reid. Moffat, Urquhart. McLeod, Murray, Whitehead,
Xickleson —oh, dammit, procure a directory of the
Western district and see how many holdings vou
can tick off that are unrepresented in khaki or that
have not had men rejected for ingrowing teeth or
something. ‘ Mil” mentions Hamilton as “having
done little at enlistment.” Well, the authorities lately-
closed every country recruiting depot in Vic. except
Hamilton; they kept that open because the enlist-
ments there were so satisfactory. I admit many
more can go yet, as they can from other places;
but when conscription arrives, Western Vic. won’t
be unduly shaken up.
“F.X.T.”: The day-baking trouble in Mel-
bourne has thrown some light into the dark
places of the sausage. It appears that the
price the butcher pays for stale bread, to be
used in sausage-making, is one farthing per
pound. As the bread takes up an amount of
water at least equal to its owu weight when
put through the usual process of sausage-
manufacture. it will be seen that, at 6d. a
pound for the completed mystery, there is a
considerable profit on tbo deal for the com-
piler of this immoral breakfast-food. The
revelation also helps to account for the fact
that it is a rare thing for a butcher to
appear in the Court of Insolvency, despite
the high prices ruling for carcase meat.


Take pictures of your Soldier friend
with the Vest Pocket Kodak
Before your Soldier friend leaves for the Front secure
an abundance of good pictures of him—taken by your-
self, and possessing that vital personal element which
means so much to mothers, sisters, wives and friends.
And when lie has gone from Australia, remember lie will be yearning
for pictures of h.s home life-pictures so readily made and so handy to
slip in a letter-as are poss.b e with the Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak.
You can make splendid snapshots with the Vest Pocket Auto-
graphic Kodak-the Soldier’s Kodak. It is very easy to operate;
always ready * needs no focussing - .
Light in weight; takes up little
room ; is exceedingly strong and
durable, and very handy to carry.
Takes clear pictures -2\ in. xlf in.—
which are easily enlarged. Price 30/=.
Other Kodaks up to JG I S/2/=
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak
is, too, the ideal gift for a soldier,
and enables him to bring back a price-
less record of his share in the war.
Inspect it if possible, or ask for
illustrated, descriptive folder.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
Showing the Vest Pocket
Kodak in comparison with
a man’s hand.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd. ~
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; 37
Flinders St., Townsville; Denham
N.Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland, TN’.Z.;
Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven
St.. Rockhampton; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon
and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
St., Toowoomba;
St., Wellington,
1
'saumeMtii
VC
m
»■ V.. A*'
3
LLLULLLULu^I
This is the right way to clean a window
Are you still using ordinary soap
and water on your windows and
then trying to rub away the smears
and blurs?
Try the American way with Bon
Ami. This unique material is
made of a very soft, crumbly, non-
scratching white mineral. Yourub
* "V”
§ For all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
the cake of Bon Ami with a wet
cloth and get a creamy lather,
which you apply to the glass.
Let it dry on the glass for a min-
ute and the Bon Ami becomes a
dry, soft, white powder. Wipe
this off with a soft, dry cloth and
presto! your window is cleaner
than you ever saw it before!
Itis alldoneina couple of minutes.
In the United States almost every-
body cleans their windows this
way.
At your grocers, 6d.
“There is nothing else like it.”
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
=Cle an, Reliable
Heating' System
A 'v
m
Enjoy the snug hug of cheerful warmth
without smoke, dust or soot. These
tarnish the beauty of furniture and
tapestries, make plaster or paint dingy
and unsightly, and necessitate much
needless drudgery in keeping the home
thoroughly clean.
Ideal Boilers
and Radiators
make every nook and corner of the home
genially cosy and require no more care-
taking than to run a stove for one room.
They are equally suitable for any build-
ing, old or new, cottage or mansion.
Make your home a haven of comfort
before the drear, draughty days again
show how cheerless and costly your
present heating method is. You will
not then be at the mercy of chill, ex-
posed rooms, nor will half the heat of
your coal go up the chimney.
The Radiators come in many handsome designs, and are
greatly admired. They are fed from pipes connecting
with an Ideal Boiler, and can be placed in cold, draughty
places. The heat can be regulated as required.
Come in and investigate the sterling merits
and genuine economy of this depend attic,
v'-to-datc Heating System, or icrite to-
day for free hook, which is full of big
facts you ought to know.
Otherwise
John banks
& Son Propy.
Ltd.
The House for Heat and Light,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney


Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
“J-IYOU THEATRE. MELIIOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
THE ONLY HORACE GOLDIN,
The Royal Illusionist.
Also, THREE KUNDLES, JACK BORNHOLD,
BLANCHE COLVIN, BILL PRUITT, ROSE BERRY
and GOSWARD.
Plan at Glen's.
M A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y I) N E Y.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MOTHER GOOSE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 10.
WELCOME HOME TO “THE ROYAL COMICS.”
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. will begin a series of
Musical Reproductions. First Attraction,
GIPSY LOVE.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce a Season of
Merriment. Roi Cooper Megrue’s Soap Comedy,
IT PAYS TO ADVKRTISE.
Presenting a great Company of Comedians headed
by HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL.
Plans at
P
ALAC
Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
E T H*E ATK E. SYDN IS Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J&N.TAITS NEWENCLISH C?
PEG,
ACOMEDY OF YOUTH
by MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OFSUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
TO W N HAL L, SYDN E Y.
Direction . . . . ROLAND STAVELY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE FRENCH FIGHTING FRONT.
FRENCH GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL WAR FILMS.
TOURING THE CAPITALS.
Popular Prices: 2/- and 1/-.
Reserves at Paling's, 2 ; 6.
WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME,
11AYMARKET.
Proprietors . ... . Messrs. WIRTH BROS. LTD.
Mr. Leonard F. Durell's
GIGANTIC MILITARY AQUA DRAMA OF THE
WAR.
KU L IT 11.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
A PERFECT PRODUCTION.
WONDERFUL EFFECTS.
ABSORBING PLOT.
COLOSSAL COMPANY.
200,000 GALLONS OF WATER USED AT EACH
PERFORMANCE.
Precoiled by
Jack Waller’s Variety Company,
THE IDEALS OF 1916.'’
THE FROVEANIES,
Wonderful Trick Cyclists.
MAXIMO,
The Cuban Slack Wire Wonder.
PRICES: Arena Stalls and Dress Circle, 5-;
stalls, 4/-; Back Stalls. 3!-; and Family Circle 2
t'hildren in arms not admitted.
BOOK NOW. BOOK NOW.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
▼▼
TKI ANGLE plays ax
1 THE LYCEUM.
PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m..
4.15 p.in. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2'6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: Sd. to I'-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Mii.i.kk. General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LONG, LETTY.
A WHIRLWIND OF GAIETY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- anti 1/-.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
J. C. WILLI \MSON LTD. present
O Is TRIAL.
The Most Successful Drama in 25 Years.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2’-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors GEO. MARLOW LTD.
LAST NIGHTS
of
Geo. Marlow’s Brilliant Dramatic Combination
in
UNDER TWO ELAGS.
Popular Prices: 432/-, !/•
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOBR NE.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
JUST A GIRL.
A Dramatisation of Charles Garvice’s Novel.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
UOD THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
Two Big Features —•
WISH WYNNE and DAISY JEROME.
Also FRED COYNE’S REVUE, “Something
Doing,’’ THE FLEMINGS, CUMBY and BROWN,
and GERALD E. GRIFFEN.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
MELBOURNE.
EEAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
O V T’i PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
B
IRC
H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Plavino- Pictures and Vaudeville in all tlie princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba tr
Charters Towers. . , ...
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Iheaties of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General l Um
Heap‘office ROTH WELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
ADVERTISER, who controls Commonwealth and
New Zealand Rights of real good canvasser's
selling line among farmers, would be pleased to
give territory to responsible agent who could recipro-
cate by giving in return an equally good New
Zealand \gencv. Correspondence invited.
BOYD’S AGENCY, DUNEDIN, N Z.
IMPROVING THE COMPLEXION.
Constipation disfigures the complexion
with pimples and blotches. Poisonous matter
which should have been expelled from the
system is retained and gives rise to impuri-
ties in the blood. Cosmetics and ointments
arc more likely than not to aggra\ ate the
trouble by blocking the pores of the skin.
Regularity must be established to remove
the trouble. .
Pinkettes, the dainty new laxative, quickly
clear away all offending matter without the
least griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear the
complexion, and are recommended for. torpid
liver, biliousness, headaches, constipation
and whenever a gentle laxative is required.
Write to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney, for a free' trial sample, mentioning
The Bulletin. Pinkettes are Is. a bottle
at all medicine dealers. —Advt.
RAZORS COME AND RAZORS GO
but “THE PLUM” endures the test of time and long experience
You can trust
THE. "PLUM”
the whole year through, for the blade is of unmatched keenness, and
is tempered in such a scientific mariner that it requires but little
stropping.
PRICE 10/6—POST F REE.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case. 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
\-
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges. £5/16/-. This Drice is onlv for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
‘ 'I
l
A tin of my very own
—and it’s that lovely
A Watch Bracelet
Will Please Her —
ISSSS'Sf
IF YOU BUY IT AT
STEWART DAWSON’S
Thi* High-grade KEYLESS LEVER
WATCH is a wonderfully accurate little
timekeeper, with fully-jewelled movement.
Mounted on Patent Expanding Bracelet.
Price in 9ct. Gold £6/10/-
Also in 15ct. Gold £9/10/-
Others at £5/10/-, £7'7/-,
£lO/10/-. £l4/10/-
EVERY PRESENT SEEKER
should possess a copy
of our COMPLETE
CATALOGUE of Jewel-
lery, Watches and Rings.
Post free to all who write.
BATTALION COLORS RINGS, showing the colors of vour Soldier
Friend's Battalion. All Battalion Colors kept in stock. These
charming Memento Rings are in great favor.
Ladies’ sizes, in 9ct. Gold 21 /-
Gent’s sizes, in 9ct» Gold 20/-
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney
(■overnment Notices.
OF
COMMONWEALTH OF
Department of the Navy
Melbourne, 25th May, 19 1 G
Tenders for the Supply of Oil Fuel tl,
Pumps to the Flinders Naval B ase k
T™ ERS * je rece ived, subject t
X the conditions of tendering
OQ 4-U T
twelve noon on Wednesday, 28th June fi
for the supply of Oil Fuel Tank
delivery at Flinders Naval Base! VictoriT
Purther particulars mav he
the Director of Navy Contracts.
Melbourne; or from the Disr. i.V v '
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff Vdnl?
•T- A. JENSEN, °
Minister of State for the Navy.
COM MONMT^XTraoFl^i^Tr-
Department of the Navy
Melbourne, 25th May lffm
Tenders for the Supply of Timber to the
Commonwealth Naval Dockyard
f 11ENDERS are invited, subiect t,
X the conditions of tendering nn J
twelve noon on Monday. 12th June loicT
the supply of Timber to the cSSS
Naval Dockyard, for the period Ist T,,V
3916, to the 30th June, 1917. July
Further particulars may be obtained fron
the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy ofs
Melbourne; or from the General Manage
a«n“r , SyC. NTaVal D ° Cky " r,J - “**«
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navv.
Missing Friendg.
T NFORMATION is sought as to the
X whereabouts of GEORGE WILLIAM
LINCOLN MACKAY, who left New Zea-
land some live years ago for Australia. He
is reported to have died in Western Aus-
tralia. When in New Zealand he followed
the occupation of auctioneer and estate
agent. Will anyone knowing anything of
the person enquired for please communicate
with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
WELLINGTON.
LILAS expects letter at once, care C. .]
McFARLANE, 420 Little Collin
Street, Melbourne. . Very important.
Absent beneficiaries. -r (
HENRY FINBAR FINUCANE, De-
ceased. —The present addresses of Mrs.
DELIA FINUCANE Dice SKENE) and
Mrs. NOR AH GERTRUDE SMITH inn
SKENE I, who resided in Charters Towers
about twelve years ago. are required bv the
LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR.
Townsville.
\\ T ILL WALTER TULLOCII, late of
▼ ▼ Carnoustie, Scotland, please communi-
cate with JAMES WATSON & CO.. Ltd..
453 Latrobe Street. Melbourne?
Business Notices.
PATENTS. —A useful feature embodied in
atent Law enables an inventor at comparatively
nail tost (with simple inventions £4 4?.), even
efore he has been to the expense of working out his
lvention in practice, to procure “Provisional Protec-
on,” and thus save the priority of a term to receivi
ill Patent rights in the Commonwealth of Australia,
ud in any or all of those 26 countries having
atent Laws, and which are parties with tin'
ommonwealth to the International Convention,
luring this term, which is nine months in the
ommonwealth of Australia and 12 months in tin
ireigri countries, the inventor lias ample opportunity
> test the full question of value, to work out hi-
ivention and demonstrate its practicability. If the
rinciples or his invention are seen to promise a
lcce— he can proceed to take out full Patents; i
at, he need go to no further expense. During w
eriod of provisional protection the invention nw.
e made, used and sold without prejudicing the rip
f the inventor to obtain valid Letters Patent, r
normal ion on Patents turnishecl free on application
a A. J. CALLIXAX, Registered Patent
tfieial Examination. 1906), 281 Collins •
[elbotirne —'Phone 5199; or 14 Castlereagh ■
vdney—'Phone 8336. Direct and most reliable agen
i all countries granting Patent-. — Advt.
Used the
World Over
53
m
MOTOR
...CARS
BEST - ALWAYS.
n. : .
n / 7j m
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company
Wf SrppLT— Har d=
| ARRAU and Tasmanian
i wood Piles. Beams. Sl«l*
J Paving Blocks. 6“^^
Scantling, reasoned Hoorn*
Weatherboards, Etc. v
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, -
LORD STREET, PERTH. W-&.
QUEEN S BRIDGE. MELBOIR- >
6SI PITT STREET, SYDNEY, -
BranchesinaUparUofth^orT^^^,


Spread All Around Mouth. Very
Itchy. Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. No Signs of Trouble.
T. 0., Rosewood, ViaWagga, N. S, W.—•
“My little sister got a small red spot on her
left cheek and as a few days went by this
red spot gradually grew larger and spread
all round her mouth. It was very itchy and
at times, especially when my sister went
near the fire, it was painful. The itchiness
caused her to scratch it and so caused sores
and the skin round them to become in-
flamed. We are quite convinced that it
was eczema. I saw an advertisement for
the Cuticura Remedies and at once pro-
cured some Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Within two days the red patch had disap-
peared and there are no signs whatever
left.” (Signed) Miss Hilda M. Harvey,
April 23, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W r .
Sold throughout the world.
All is Food in
Food
When you prepare Bender’s
Food with fresh new milk, it
forms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
milk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
in illness, when other food
\vy \
Lla
178 A
causes pain
and distress.
Benger's Booklet-A little
work of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids, and tne Aged, Will
be sent post free on appli-
cation to
BENGER’3 FOOD, Ltd.
MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branch Offices —
New York (u.s.a.)
92, William Street.
SYDNEY (N.S.W.),
117, Pitt Street*
Canadian Agents —
National Drug and
Chemical Co Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street,
Montroal,and branches
throughout Canada.
Benge f*s Food is sold
by Druggists, etc,,
>^v
‘'IV iTI
from the Ross .280 j
using the Special Sporting Am-
munition with its copper tube
expanding bullet fells the largest
game if a fair hit is registered.
You increase your chances of
success by carrying this rifle which
.not only hits but anchors the
J game.
Expert guides and hunters all
over the world recommend it.
Sold by best dealers.
Illustrated Catalogue free on
request.
V ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec,
\ 1215 Ctn.d*^.
Information and Prices can be obtained from
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
i’.O. Rox 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
finnigan;
Proprietress.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OEEICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Directors-—Hon. A. W. Meek®, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; lion. 1. •
Black, MLC. ; Hon. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adr.an Knox, Esq., K.C..
Samuel Hordern, Esq. Q .
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. A 1 I bit BY, seeieraiy.
Accumulated Funds, £555,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,00-.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay. - -■
§§
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
- beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than th» picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
Q9BOO
/ML
P
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produce*
U, HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS.
LADIES! DON’T SUFFER
WITH SORE FEET!
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet, Coins,
Chilblains, cured without delay. New
Foot Medicine Quickly Banishes
all Foot Ailments.
An Urgent
Case
for “Biff”
A
T
%
%
To those who are troubled with sore, tender ach-
ing, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant swelling feet,
clilblains, bunions, corns or hard skin, Bibb will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfort. By
using “BIFF” once a week you will insure your feet
against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a scientific com-
pound which draws out all poisonous matter from the
feet, which clog and choke pores of the skin One app-
lication of this unique compound will render the feet
sweet and antiseptic. Experience only makes credible
Mrs. Skinner Writes To say that lam delighted
with “Biff" is to put it mildly. I never knew what
it was to spend a day shopping without being com-
pletely done up, but i hanks to "Biff" I never get that
tired hot feeling in the feet.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores, from the wholesale houses, or post free direct
from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, large
size (three times the quantity) 4s.
The "Biff" Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt St., Sydney
MONtserrAT
SAUCE
««i a
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
r 4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
Jack Macgregor is the new editor .of
Brisbane Courier, J. J. Knight goes into
the managing-director’s chair, vacated by
E. J. Stevens, M.L.C. Macgregor started
at the “case,” climbed through the Sydney
Daily Telegraph office, was appointed
associate on the Courier, and now gets the
mantle.* The “case,” now a dead school, has
given more top-notch men to the Australian
newspaper world than the University.
* * * *
Corporal Harry Moorhead, the plucky
Melbourne pressman who returned from
Gallipoli minus his right arm and right leg,
has taught his left hand the use of the pen
and is running the motor pages of Mel-
bourne Herald. He talks of driving a
motor-car later on, and taking up golf.
* * * *
G. Rossi Ashton, who did The Bulletin’s
Melbourne page in the long ago, and then
entertained Mr. and Mrs. J. Bull as a light-
ning sketcher, is nowadays doing theatrical
caricatures for London Era.
* * * *
The Christchurch Journalists’ Union,
which has the rank and file of Canterbury
(M.L.) newspaper men as members, the
other day overhauled its records, and found
that up to March 31 17 inklings had donned
khaki out of GO on the roll. Three of them,
C. C. Yorke, A. R. McLaughlin and Arthur
Wagstaff, had been killed, and two, Ser-
geants R. G. Ritchie and W. L. Paterson,
had returned from Gallipoli and been dis-
charged unfit for further service. In addi-
tion, 11 ex-members are in the war-rig and
seven local inky-wayfarers who don’t belong
to the union are under arms.
* * * *
“Coot”: I see the A.N.A. is going to hold
an exhibition of Australian manufactures
and primary products in the Melbourne
Exhibition building in January, 1917. Very
good; I concur. But why doesn’t the A.N.A.
do something to foster Australian litera-
ture? Every year here in Melbourne it
holds musical and elocutionary competitions,
but never does it give literary aspirants
any show by including a section for short
stories, essays, etc. Surely it could spare
£lOO out of the £5OO which is to be divided
among the brass bands, and thus, maybe,
bring to light some new Sentimental Bloke.
* * * *
After a highly respectable career of 171
years, Keene’s Bath Journal, one of the
oldest weekly papers in England, sent the
last forme to press at the end of March, and
the Inky Way will know it no more.
Founded in 1742 by John Boddeley, under
the title of the Bath Journal, it passed
some years later into the hands of John
Keene through his marriage with Boddeley’s
daughter. It remained in the hands of the
Keene family to the end, and took on the
family name. One of the many Keenes
who edited it was James, a dignified and
courtly clergyman, who preached with his
pen on week days and with his collection-
box on Sundays.
* * *
“II.”: How beautifully Henry Lucy
basks! Consider this extract from a recent
London letter to the S. M. Herald:
Glancing round the circle of guests, the Prince of
Wales happened to catch sight of me, with constitu-
tional modesty withdrawn to the outer ring ot trie
group. Royalty desiring to converse with anyone
in company has the honored individual conducted to
his presence. His Royal Highness having some-
thing to sav, walked across the room and entered
into friendly conversation, unavailingly interrupted
bv intimation from one of his suite that it was tune
to put in an appearance at the Foreign Office. I
was much struck by his intimate knowledge of me
and things in the House of Commons, and his shrewd
appreciation of character.
I read it whilst coming into town in a
crowded tram and was so moved that 1 had
to throw down my paper and applaud
vigorously. f ,
“Thesaurus”: Whatever other effects the
war may have, it has at least enriched the
English language. The verbs to strate
and “to submarine” are cases in point. YY e
shall yet have the verb “to birrell, describ-
ing the action of one who cannot find the
fiddle by whose strains he would charm him-
self and the world away from thoughts of
a realm about to burn. Then there is the
very abstract noun “asquism, typifying
that state of mind which realises no present
and postulates the sempiternal unripeness of
time. # *
One of the most gradual publications on
earth is the Egyptian Times, of Cairo. For
many days it starred the approach ot
“the' grand match between Eng and and
Egypt” which wound up the local football
season. The match was played on April 8
a -Saturday. On the following Tuesday
the Times mentioned that England had won
bv three goals to nil. It proceeded: “There
was a large crowd present and the details
of the game will appear in due course.
THE PORK POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ’. Hagelthorn, Minister of Agriculture, grows
almost poetic in his earnest advocacy of pigs.
—Melbourne paper.
A cheer for honest Hagelthorn,
Long-haired and hollow-eyed;
Yea, verily, a poet born t
See, as he plucks a side
Of bacon for a harp, he will
Turn with the bhrd’s consummate skill
A most impressive dithyramb
About a ham !
Well-larded is the poet’s hair,
He Wears a chain of chops,
And from his brow all fat and fair
The sausage-garland drops ;
While fast the perfumed moment wings
He poetises pork, and sings
How may our land outrun its woes
On pettitoes.
We’ve many poets of the horse—
Some of them fairly big—
Behold, then, as a thing of course
The man who pens the pig !
This optimistic minstrel jogs
Our all-too-timid faith in hogs.
See, splendidly he mounts for us
His pigasus 1
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Guaranteed
Ail British.
Guaranteed
All British.
Mife*,
SAFETY-RAZOR BLADES.
Hade of FINEST QUALITY, PERFECTLY TEMPERED, SELECTED SHEFFIELD
STEEL in the largest blade factory in the world. “Kanok” Blades last
CONSIDERABLY LONGER than any other make—this is a provable fact.
STYLE A. —For Gillette and
similar types of Razors,
2/9
per doz.
Post Free.
wmmm
STYLE B.—For Clemak
Ever Ready, Gem Junior,etc
31-
per doz.
Post Free.
STYLE C—For Auto-Strop,
3j3
per doz.
Post Free.
Sole Agents for
New South Wales
and Queensland
mm
HAYMAPKET
•SYDNEY*
Australia’s Greatest
Sports Outfitters
and Tobacconists
Branches—ClTY and SUBURBS; also at Hunter St., Newcastle; and Edward St.
Brisbane
Clean those
hard-to -get -at places
—under the beds, the tops of doors
and high furniture, everywhere
with
asm
[Registered in principal countries)
4 T ,
S 5
A.
HTfJIP
/
Note the O-Cedar
“Handy Handle Hinge”
All O-Cedar Polish-Mops are now
fitted %vith this convenient labour-
saving feature. It makes the mop
Perfectly Adjustable
so that it goes flat under beds, tables,
etc., and reaches every hard-to-get-at
place, every corner,nook and cranny.
No Dust Can Escape
h
K
nn
The O-Cedar Polish - Mop puts an end to
back-breaking bending and stooping and getting
down on your hands and knees to dust, clean
and polish hardwood floors, etc. No hard rub-
bing or doing the same work twice.
It dusts, cleans and polishes all at one time. It
gathers all the dust and dirt and gives a high,
hard, durable lustre and polish.
Sold by all Leading Dealers
You try the O-Cedar Polish-Mop at our risk.
We fully guarantee it to satisfy you. Price
complete 6 9 and 49. If you have any difficulty
in securing write to our local distributors. They
will send it post free upon receipt of price.
“Cleans as it Polishes”
0-Cedar Polish
Simply add a few drops of O-Cedar Polish
to a cloth dampened with water. Go over
any piece of furniture or woodwork, and
polish with a dry cloth. See how O-Cedar
cleans, dusts, polishes and really beauti-
fies all at one time.
O-Cedar produces a hard, dry, gloss-like
lustre or polish that is lasting. This lustre
is retained if you put a few drops of
O-Cedar on your dust-cloth as you use it.
O^ljJar
Catalogues and Dealer Samples and prices can also be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sole Australian Agents. "
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO. Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires Cable Address ; ' Ocedar•
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
NyaPs
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2 6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
ESTABLISHED 1874.
fcolZs\
Abridges
UjUngTonie,
icoZsJ
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE»LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
tx-wum
CURES
eczema
Writing from Cobargo, in January
Mr. J. McCleary says: —‘‘I did ? ot £ t j, e
there was such a wonderful l}Q ul d w j, a t
tat could do wwj
r me. IJ
everything that I saw advertised, one
the slightest improvement; but w j
face of the planet that could do
Exzerma has done for me. I baa t
advertised, v
bottle of Exzerma I
this after two years’ sufferin
was almost cured
I was straw
to mix with people and got as far in lo e
bush as I could. Now I can once
mix with the bunch.” All Chemists
Druggists, or from . 9 £
S. FIELDER, Rnndwick, Sydney. 5 I; 4°


Returned from the Firing Line
He Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Private Harley Cohen, No. 37,
A Company, 4th Batt., A.1.F., was
one of the first Australians to en-
list. He was in the famous land-
ing at Gallipoli, and went right
through the campaign until
wounded early in the Lone Pine
charge. To while away anxious
hours in the fighting line he
wrote some verses: “They Were
There, There, There!” On his re-
turn to Australia these words were
set to music by Mr. Bert Rache,
and the song has been played by
over thirty bands and sung by
many well-known people, including
Mr. reter Dawson, who has secured
the Gramophone rights. Mr.
Cohen wrote to us on his return: —■
I would like to say that Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery has
been better to me even than my
luck. I escaped the severe
colds some of my comrades had
because of my habit of taking a
sip of New Discovery every
day. It seems to have made
my throat and lungs cold resist-
ant. I am glad to be able to
add my testimony to the many
pals who have found New Dis-
covery their Mascot.
PTE. HARLEY COHEN,
No. 37, A Company,
4th Batt., A.I.F.
V
-■j
m
V
Private
HARLEY COHEN
(from a photo.).
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the most famous modern remedy for Coughs and
Colds. A dose taken at the first sign of a cold will ward off danger and prevent
further trouble. New Discovery is as good for the folk at home as for our
soldiers at the Front. Buy a bottle to-day and reap the benefit of a winter
free from Coughs and Colds. 1/6 and 3/-
D? Sheldon’s
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
If you must rear
baby by hand
Then there’s
his Bottle
Mellin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
simple Feeder.
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s Milk; its success is evidenced by
world-wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious cooking —it is alike a boon to the
nursing mother and satisfying to the child.
Mellin’s
Food
Write NOW for sample of Mellin's Food and useful Handbook
for Mothers —“ The Care of Infants in Australia”—post free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting- Ropes and other parts
f or Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
WILLIAM MITCHELL (PENS) LTP
6°
B
O
X
E
S
POINTS IN
a
DEGREES
EX-FINE
FINE
MEDIU/A
BROAD
[ORIGINAL POINT.)
EX-SROAD
PENMAKERS TO H.M. THE KING.
•BY APPOINTMENT.
ORIGINAL MAKERS OP THE
b f*s 5f po x f^ W
MADE iN
s
COLORS
BLACK
BLUE
GILT
GALVANIZED
WHITE
(MCTAt-i COATSOI
PENS TO SUIT ALL WRITERS
ASSORTED SAMPLE BOXES of 24 PATTERNS from ALL STATIONERY STORES.
The Greater Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONCE upon a time,
Little Golden-Head,
Steeples used to chime,
And their chiming said:
“Peace is on the land —-
Joy on every hand.”
Glowing youths and men
Rose and went their ways,
Some to hill and glen,
Some to shining bays.
And they left behind
Ills of heart and mind.
Oh, but it was sweet
Underneath the trees,
Bare of throat and feet,
Bathed in golden ease,
Two and two to lie
While the hours went by !
Sweet indeed it was
Thus to lie and laze,
Couched upon the grass
Through the shining days—-
Sweet to breathe the air,
Free of toil and care !
On the beaches then,
Sporting with the sea.
Gathered brown-limbed men
Graced like statuary
Chiselled by some bold
Master hand of old.
All were guests of Joy;
All his sportive clan-
Here a shouting boy,
There a jesting man,
While the breakers hymned,
Braving them, stout-limbed. .
Listen, Golden-Ilead !
Came a Wondrous One
Unto each, and said:
“Look on me, my son!
Am I not above
All things else you love?”
Then that love began
Which is more than life —-
More than love of man,
Love of maid or wife ;
Love of queen or king,
Aught or anything.
Little Golden-Head,
Is it well to tell
How they wrought and bled, '
llow they fought and fell
In their glowing prime,
Once upon a time?
Nay, but it is writ
That such things must be ;
Oh the shame of it,
Oh the tragedy !
Oh the days of rue,
Oh the glory too!
Little Golden-Ilead,
By the skies above,
By our honored dead,
You shall know that love —
Know, and hold the time
When ’twas born sublime !
N.s.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Personal Equation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
«TT is a fine zingk-leadt mine,” said
1 Bergheim, the managing director 'of
the Metallic Segregation Co., manu-
facturers of machinery on the patents of an
Australian chemist whose name was almost
forgotten by the people he had enriched. “It
is of der lartch lodes ; the tailinks shall be
tzehn per cent, of leadt, noin per cent, of
zingk widt aclitzehn onzes of silfer. Ye
shall tenter for der plant. . . .Now, to show
you all der gonfidence ve in der mine haf,
the lartch segkrekation blandt vill cost tirty
sossand poundts ; ve vill take half der money
in shairce at par.”
He spoke with such enthusiasm and
finality that Willie Bardene, the Director of
the Yancowinna Silver Mining Co., almost
believed that Bergheim’s tender had been
accepted even before it was entered; and
Bardene withdrew with the information for
his co-directors and the determination to buy
Yancowinnas as soon as ever Bergheim’s ten-
der was accepted.
There was much market belief in the new
process of the Metallic Segregation Co.; the
long series of experiments on Yancowinna
ore with a trial plant big enough for all the
purposes of commercial demonstration had
attracted much inside attention, and this in
turn had slipped over to the general public;
so Yancowinnas were whispered everywhere
and the market only waited for the Metallic
Segregation Co. to clinch its belief in its
own process by building a guaranteed plant.
That done, whispering would become talk-
ing, and any commodity much talked of
becomes desirable and valuable—be it dia-
monds or sheep dung. So Bardene, satisfied
in the first place of Bergheim’s belief in the
efficiency of the plant, determined to buy
Yancowinnas; and to buy doubly now that
he knew Bergheim would take half the cost
of the plant in shares at par. That belief
must lift the stock as far over par as now
it was under; must cause that Big Noise
in the market place, quite appropriately
known as a big boom.
Elder, the English of Bergheim
in the Mineral Segregation Co., was silent
for a few minutes after Bardene’s depar-
ture ; his ferret eyes were going over and
over Bergheim’s figures, boring into the inner
parts of the numerals as a greased gimlet
into pine, impaling figures with his eyes
v liich he used, so to speak, as files. Then
said he :
But if the plant doesn’t work at a profit
you re landed with 15.000 shares that will
be unsaleable, Bergy.”
The gross good-humored face of Bergheim
smiled in pity of such half-knowledge; the
tat forefinger of Bergheim waggled in depre-
cation.
“Of der blant should not gif brofits,” he
said, “ve still make der money. For vy? I)o
ve holdt dose sliairce till der mill is vorking
at a brofit? No ! ve sell zem—also ve sell
tirty sossand more.”
“A bear! It’s too risky, Bergy. Good
zinc and lead prices and unlimited stuff to
cut at —no fear.”
“Yes! mein frendt—a guaranteet bear.”
Who guarantees it?”
“Der fifteen sossand shairce ve are to get
at par.”
“Yes—but if the new separation plant is
a big profit maker.”
“It will not be a brofit magker—it shall
be a loss.”
'A\ by, how? It worked out a profit in the
small machine.”
“So it will in the lartch. .. .exgscept”
“Except—what?”
Bergheim turned over one of the cost
sheets; and unerringly, as if he could have
found it in the dark, his fat forefinger was
laid upon an item which Elder assimilated.
He nodded in recognition thereof. With a
larger smile than usual Bergheim turned to
the Yancowinna Company’s estimation of
cost and specification of plant. He ran the
fat forefinger down the items; Elder’s eyes
following the finger. Elder nodded as he
saw that the particular item on Bergheim’s
test plant cost sheet was not duplicated in
the cost sheet accompanying the Yancowinna
Company’s specifications.
“Why didn’t you tell them, Bergy?”
Bergheim chuckled. “Mein dear freundt!
It is nodt my busyness. They delifered to
us, for purboses of der tesdt machines, ore
grush-ed to a bardicular fineness; and that
gost is nodt in our returns and is not
allowed for. I do not tell zem begos I haf
to quote a low working gost or lose der
busyness, andt der margin is so schmall
that it gannodt bay ; but ve gannodt lose.”
“Why?”
“Ve sell der blandt; a goodt sale. . . .Then
we bull der margedt. The shairce vill rise
... .Ye sell! Then ve bear... .the blandt is
a failure.... the shairce go to nodting....
In the endt ve haf the mine for der brice
of a piggled gugumber. Andt ve get der
blandt and machineries bagk too.”
“But you say the plant is no good.”,
“Not now, mein frendt! but a few drifting
aldteradtions; und zen—you shall see.”
And the fat forefinger described an
ascending spiral past Bergheim’s ear to
above his head and then a descending spiral
towards his boots. E’der’s ferret eyes glowed
with the cruel anticipation of it—he smiled
at Bergheim, a smile of admiration and
affection of any man who proposes to make
for any of us money for nothing; or at the
peppercorn cost of honesty and the prin-
ciples of ethics.
“I tell you,” said the roguish Bergheim.
“ven it is all ofer you shall tell me that I
magke for you the fine killingk.”
* * * *
The huge sheds on the ironstone hill of
the Yancowinna Silver Mining Co.’s ground
grew into glistening, crackling galvanised-
iron monstrosities among the mulga. Stacks
rose for the furnaces of the Metallic Segre-
gation Co.; engines were bedded down and
fitted; and the market was so confident in
this plant—which was being partly paid for
in reserved shares in preference to real
money—that it lifted the shares from well
under par to thirty shillings over it. Partly
the activity of building accounted for that
market hopefulness, but principally that in-
fection of hope which makes new worlds, and
new religions, and causes us to believe again
in human nature after making the discovery
that there’s roguery in all things. Every
degspike in the new railway tracks, every
nail driven in the building constructions,
every barrel of cement broken, sent their
sounds down to the market place ; there to
give the whisperers and the talkers-up new
puff’s of hot air to balloon the market.
And then the mill started, and Bergheim
and Elder, who had sold their holding and
more, now started in on the beginning of the
big killing, Bergheim having figured that
the Yancowinna Company would take twelve
menths to die ; so tenacious is hope on the
loser, so difficult is it for youth and confi-
dence to cut a loss. The market shuddered
at that first onslaught of the bear, took the
shares and recovered. In a week it had
forgotten the assault. Then the attacks
became steady and persistent, separated only
by three or four days of interval; yet out-
side belief in the new plant was so strong
that the fall was only by sixpences a day—
a retreat decided, but orderly.
Willie Bardene believed in the mine, as a
devout churchman believes in the Gospel;
the fact that as a director he had inside
information proved his delusion and his
snare. He was too close up to the same
to see it; too satisfied that he had all the
points at his fingertips to doubt the value
of one of them or suspect the existence of
one not disclosed. Still the gradual fall
bothered him, for he had gone the whole
hog on Y r ancowinnas, and when he met Berg-
heim he asked that financial pessimist (dis-
guised as an industrial optimist) if Berg-
heim knew the selling force in the market.
To which Bergheim, with a preparedness
which might have seemed suspicious to a
more suspecting man than Bardene, dis-
played a bought note for 500 Yancowunnas
at 345. 6d. But he did not show the sheaf
of sold notes in his name of Yancowiunas;
the bought note being merely that exception
which proved the rule.
The interview satisfied everybody, sending
Bardene home cheerfully to count profits,
and Bergheim back to his English partner
Elder —both to take credit and pleasure
from their great killing of Bardene the Aus-
tralian.
The mill started and the market fell;
realising that axiom of financial operations
in mining, “Sell before the stampers speak.”
The Metallic Segregation Co. which supplied
- the plant, was still in charge of it; and
now, while they drew out the period of their
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASE:
Why is it so Serious? Poisonous Waste is
Left in the Blood when the Kidneys are 111.
E v r ery Picture
Te/fs A Story'
Kidney disease is serious because it is so little understood, "Many men
and women do not know what the kidneys are, where they are, or wliftt they
do. Consequently, when any ign of kidney disease appears (stick as
backache, urinary troubles, puffy swellings, irregular heart, etc.) it is often
mistaken for some other trouble, and the kidney complaint grows, unnoticed,
into Bright's disease, diabetes, rheumatism or dropsy
The least sign of kidney disorder, therefore, however trifling it may
seem to you, is a serious sign, for it shows that the kidneys are not keeping
your blood pure. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for the kidneys and
bladder only. They drive out clogging impurities, ease the tired
membranes, and build up the kidneys" strength. Men and women of all
ages can place faith in this great kidney medicine. Safeguard your blood-
filtering organs, and begin with the genuine Doan's Backache Kidney Pills
when there is any such serious sign as ui inary trouble, backache, dropsical
swellings, dizzy spells, rheumatic pains, sciatica, nervousness, sleeplessness,
feebleness, or languor.
Cured to Stay Cured.
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mi - . M . J. Frappell, who has been in
the employ of Messrs. Wright, Heaton
and Co. for over twenty-five years, says :
“It gives me pleasure to testify to the
curative value of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. I had been suffering with
an aching back for a number of years,
and at times it was very severe. After
trying many remedies without getting
any ease whatever, I was advised to use
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I did
so, and from the first dose got relief, and
after using three bottles I was entirely
free of the backache. I am thoroughlv
cured, and hope this statement will meet
the eye of other sufferers, and be the
means of them getting relief through the
use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Mr. Frappell confirms the above
fourteen years later: “My cure by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills has proved
permanent. I have been perfectlv free
of backache for the last fourteen years ”
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. Chas. Reynolds, 21 Wyndkam
Street, Alexandria. Sydney, says: “My
hack troubled me for a long time, the
sharp, shooting pains making my life a
misery. I could not stoop, and suffered great
pain trying to get about to do my work.
Even when lying in bed at night I got no
ease. I could not get anything to give
me relief, though I used a great many
remedies. However, I at last got a
thoroughly good remedy in Doan's Back-
ache Kidney Pills. These wonderful pills
stopped th(> pain like magic, and I have
been quite free of it for two years now.
Xo one need endure the agony of back-
ache. for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pilß
will certainly cure this ailment.”
Mrs. Reynolds confirms the above seven
years later: “I can now add the import-
ant fact that 1 have been free of backache
ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney rills
cured me seven years ago.”
Cj r n
Doan's Backache Kidney Bills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
' tv*l i’f 1 or wiU be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan bo.,
i itt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
ECZEMA
A Lasting Cure by
DOAN'S OINTMENT.
Mr. H. Matson, sen., 200 Australia Street. Camperdown, Sydney, says: A
couple of years ago I had Eczema bleak out badly on my chest. ' It was shortly
after I returned from a trip to India, where I had'gone with horses. I had feW
very badly in India, and the Eczema seemed to be the result of this sickness. It
very severe, and spread rapidly until I was in such a state that the pain aIMI
irritation nearly drove me mad. When I went to bed at night my sufferings were
worse, and it was nearly morning before I could get to sleep. A man I know ad'iseh
me to get Doan’s Ointment, saying that he heard of excellent results from the use ot
this preparation. I thought it a good idea, and obtained a pot. The first applicat lo ®
was cooling, and the second soothed the itch, and after that I got along splendid!?-
Every time 1 applied the Ointment there was a marked improvement until I wa
quite cured. Within a month from the first time I applied the Ointment not one trace
of the ailment remained. Doan's Ointment Ip a .splendid preparation for Eczema,
skin irritation, to take inflammation from the skin, and to heal.’’
Ten years later Mr. Watson confirms the above: Sflt is now ten years since
Doan’s Ointment cured me of Eczema, and I am pleased to say that the cure has stood
the test of time. I am still quite free of this dreadful complaint.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, ° r
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
killing, they postponed the statement of
output and cleaning up—-exhausting all the
pretexts and evasions before giving away the
information.
And then suddenly Bergheim announced to
Elder that the time had come to let the pub-
lic know that it had shadow instead of sub-
stance. The hour had struck, not for the
killing, because in its important particulars
that was already done, but to break gently
to the corpse the fact that it was dead.
Bad news cannot be broken gently. The
Yancowinna Company’s bad news that,
although the plant was all right, the omis-
sion of a few costs meant a loss, came to the
market like a blow from a 14-pound hammer
on the heart. Publication of tlie fact that
careless operation and avoidable changes at
the plant would alter the loss considerably
had no effect; Yancowiimas fell away quickly
to under the ten-shilling mark, and there-
after they rotted day by day to a shilling or
‘hereabouts.
Willie Bardene, quite broken —-for lie had
bought more than lie bad money for —and
bad purchased heavily forward on a falling
market, interviewed Bergheim and told him
his true and liighly-insnlting opinion of both
him and Elder.
But Bergheim had been rehearsing bis
behavior in such ail interview for months
before; and lie was Sorry, and deprecatory,
and hurt and jolly all at the one time.
Finally, being too deeply insulted to pre-
tend that lie did not understand, he replied
with a smile full of menace that lie supposed
his firm would have to take over the Yanco-
winna as “der Osdralian manatchment seemt
so ingabable.” Whereat Willie Bardene
cursed him in the vivid language of the Gulf
of Carpentaria, and left him. He left also
the market and the haunts of crazy finance,
forced by the necessities of tlie moment to
seek work more or less lionesf. It was not
conspicuous in honesty, this particular job
at. the beginning, but lie made it so. Influ-
ence found him a mining billet; merit
brought him promotion.
* * * *
Bergheim and Elder got control suffici-
ently of Yancowinna shares to push
out the Australian directorate and ap-
point themselves; but they were many
obstinate people who refused to sell, and as
Bergheim and Elder wanted all the mine they
could get. and not merely a controlling
interest in it, they began a policy of doing
nothing, and opened a great campaign of
silence in tlie mine and rust in the machin-
ery. Gradually they wore down the smaller
holders, buying pounds' worth for pence;
little by little they cut the hearts out of the
bigger and more obstinate men, who recog-
nised at last that Bergheim and Elder held
all the cards. Then Bergheim and Elder
went to the silverfield. engaged a hundred
men or more, and awakened the long silent
millsheds and engines. He left Elder in
charge and went further north to run
the rule over some old copper-mines by
Freeling Heights, alleged to be as great as
the English company that fell down ou it
had considered it valueless. It was a hill,
almost a mountain —a stickwork of bornite
and copper sulphide, and the sharp Teutonic
nose of Bergheim. trained to run down
profits as a shooting-dog is trained to dis-
cover game, was pointed at the story of
millions of tons of ore —-low grade, truly,
but promising profits to a man who had a
knowledge of, and contempt for, the slip-
shod and extravagant ways of English man-
agement. He went down to Quorn, glad
with the anticipation of profit, the getting
for nothing something apparently certain to
be of value, and a thorough belief in him-
self; but before he left lie had an unpleasing
encounter with Willie Bardene —then on liis
way south and east, after a fruitless trip
to yet another “great” gold-mine which
sampling proved to be worth but a smell of
tin* metal to the acre.
Bergheim. being the winner, was kindly
disposed, and greeted Bardene as if he were
a valued friend. But the Australian felt
sore, and scorned diplomacy in the hiding of
his feelings.
"I don't want to know you. Bergheim,”
he said. "You iviped my eye all right; and
you got away with tlie swindle”
"SchwindleV”
“But, although 1 can't put you into the
logs for it. I needn’t know you, and 1
won’t.”
Bergheim had discovered his good humor
in a moment. He laughed as if full of
benevolence, and said as one might depre-
cate the ill temper of a naughty boy—“ Yell!
Yell! You know mines. Mister Pardene,
budt you dond’t know der bersonal equa-
tions of men.”
"It will be a bad time for your personal
equation if ever I'm able to get iu front of
one of your deals. Bergheim—remember
Shat.”
Bergheim laughed as at a good joke, waved
a fat forefinger at Willie Bardene. And went
bis way. From Quorn the once-a-week
train took him to Lyndhurst. and a buggy
and four horses took him 200 miles east,
delivered him to Breakneck Hills and the con-
dition of being forgotten by men for six
weeks.
A week after lie left the railway Europe
was ir. flames and Germany had begun to
menace Belgium: aud a week thereafter
Britain had declared war. Captain Willie
Bardene was called up for home service,
and luck assigned to him a job dealing with
aliens, their control and internment.
Curiously enough they sent him to Berg-
heim's office before he was a fortnight in
harness, and there he found proofs of the
foreign ownership of Berglieim’s syndicate
and all that Bergheim and Elder had. includ-
ing the Yancowinna mine and the mill that
failed. Because of his mining experience
they gave him the job of seizing the mine
property, and with a lively sense of the
justice of seizing the property which had
been taken from him by a trick, lie went back
to the field that represented so much dead
hope and futile effort.
The German-owned mine had still an
Australian name, and in Berglieim’s absence
Elder had continued the work of rehabilita-
tion. The hammers of tlie smiths' shops
reverberated under the galvanised-iron.
startling the wallaby in their leaping? down
the iron-slugged red soil and through the
rnulga ; the dense masses of the scrub held
the mill and the winding-engine house and
poppet heads like an ugly print in a black-
green frame; the exhausts of the engines
puffed into the still air thick as wool. .Bar-
dene seized the plant, stopped the work, and
then, having failed to get information from
Elder, whose name was oyster, sat down to
think a way to catch Bergheim. \\ hile he
stayed in the bush only was Bergheim safe;
at any port or railhead he stood a fine
chance of being arrested on sight. The
trouble was that all bank inquiries failed
to discover the place of Bergheim s money.
And then Elder disappeared; an amazing
fact, though not being an alien he was not
arrestable at that stage of the war. at any
rate. But there was no doubt that he
wag out to warn Bergheim, and Bardene used
all his ingenuity to prevent that meeting —
which would of course have money for its
object. And there intruded the personal
equation of Elder.
That worthy gentleman, thinking of him-
self only, after the fashion of human
nature, made for the bush as quickly
as he could go, and on the first day
out of Lyndhurst mot Bergheim return-
ing with 3cwt. of samples for assay
and a slightly chastened hope of
profits. Bergheim was told the news and
turned pale; then, being a man of action,
be jettisoned the 3cwt. of samples,
made camp, and with a neat little safety-
razor and a pocket scissors rid himself
of his tooth-brush moustache and thick grey
whiskers, thus discovering to the world the
presence of three chins, hitherto but slightly
suspected. lie did not like to trust Elder
wholly; but he had to trust somebody. lie
gave Elder the keys of his safe-deposit boxes
in Melbourne and Sydney, and instructed
him to turn the securities —mostly liquid
bonds—into cash, buy drafts ou New York,
and meet Bergheim in Sydney in 10 days,
ready to leave by the San Francisco mail,
Elder to go by rail through to Adelaide:
Bergheim to go to Sydney by the hack-
blocks route —by Wilcannia and Bourke.
Elder did his duty ; went to Sydney, con-
verted the bonds, bought the drafts —by
some strange accident in his own name —
and waited honestly enough for Bergheim.
Bergheim from Silverton went east through
Purnamoota and Poolamacca down to Mount
Gipps, avoiding Broken Hill by a mile or
two, and so on to the Wilcannia-road. He
felt safe; when, owing to a little dispute
over the coach fare to Bourke, a policeman
full of zeal at German catching, took note of
and detained him, pending the decision of
the nearest military authority, who hap-
pened to be Willie Bardene.
Captain Bardene knew he had Bergheim
when he read the telegram, for the police-
man had the Australian’s eye and ear for
essentials, and he had described a clean-
shaven Bergheim to the last chin and the
ultimate wag of the fat forefinger. So.
while Captain Bardene drove to the place of
Berglieim's detention, an equally-zealous local
reporter telegraphed the news of a tliree-
t linned, clean-shaven German's arrest to Syd-
ney. and Elder heard of the arrest two days
before the departure of the San Francisco
mail. Being of a retiring nature, and also
of an ardent patriotism certain to blush at
connection with a German, Elder, having
appropriated the New York drafts and the
cabin de hure and the petty cash, waited two
days in fear and trembling, and then went
over the horizon in the Sonoma, bound for
California.
lie excused himself easily for removing
the little profits of Bergheim. “What in
hell’s the use of money to Bergy in a con-
centration camp?” he asked himself; and.
being a man of humor, answered himself
with a grin.
Bergheim took his arrest philosophically;
A illie Bardene almost liked him when lie
saw that the German still had a grin left,
and still wagged the fat forefinger.
“I mide haf abbreeiated more your per-
sonal eqvation, Mister Bardene,”’ he said.
“Now I haf a fafer to ask of you.”
“Anything inside the duty, Mr. Bergheim.”
"I sendt Mister Eldter to Sitney to sell
my bondts und segurities in der safe de-
posits and buy drafts on Neue York.. . .Tell
somebody in Sitney to gedt der money and
leaf it mit der Government.”
“Consider it done,” said Willie Bardene
and wired —one day late. Then they
searched for Elder, and at long last
discovered nearly three weeks later that a
gentleman shipping from Sydney to Hono-
lulu in the name of Goswell had then re-
shipped to Yokohama and was not easilv
traceable.
Bergheim’s rage was tremendous. The
fat finger waggled still, but with anger; the
three chins were violently agitated.
“Der damn schvindler!” said Bergheim.
“Yy didn’t I tink of his bersonal eqvation
too ?”
But. ho had really begun to rob himself
->n the day he showed to Elder the secret
and intentional error in the estimate of
costs of the new Yaneowiuna mill; and his
own personal equation defeated him.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Nocturne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HYSSOP anil vine, red roses dear to
Love,
And Pain's imperial purple—hush,
oh hush!
Xor stir with speech their sails of gossamer
A ho bear such sweetness forth !
Life sits, hands folden, for a little hour
W here the mad viols sobbed, and pleasure
swoons
For anguish of delight:
In such an hour, when ebbs reluctant day
On shores of afternoon, and from the West
Fades out her rose and gold.
I watch till one lone lanin of evening shines
And Night.
A caravan of great black camels, creeps
With soundless feet across the Plain of Stars
Low-laden with the merchandise of dreams.
In such an hour, when triumphs of the day
Fall like a ragged garment to the floor.
I dream a dream
Of lighted candles, and a warm hearth-stone,
And curtained casements barred against the
night.
And all the hohts of Gldbtn—-
And wake
To hollow clangor of a dosing door,
Receding footsteps down an empty street I
i icioria.
Marie E. J. Pitt.


We are Confident that
THE WESTINGHOUSE-MORSE SILENT
m
m
1
! ''K -C;>
I
;■£
* *'■]
ii
5
K 1
S
m
ROCKER-
JOINT
CHAIN
will appeal to you as
an important factor
in the problem of
Costs reduction*
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8M.310 to—
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Na j Zealand Orrico. 93-107jFeatherston St , Wellington.
Concord West, N.5.W.
3*
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Loekyer's gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Kng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
safeguard your health
QTJ.CoIIis Browse's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOE
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3f-, .5/~.
Made in England.
FREE!
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents; SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
V
DINNEFORD's'I
Magnesia J
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Doy
Then fly to the nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
A Dominant Position
among proprietary medicines is held to-day by Beecham’s Pills after being
before the public for the lengthy period of seventy years. This fact alone,
furnishes overwhelming proof of the splendid value of this preparation.
It shows very clearly that Beecham’s Pills have fully justified their claim
upon the public confidence. The unrivalled success of Beecham’s Pills
supplies the best guarantee that those who have not yet tried them will
derive benefit if they will but put this excellent medicine to the test.
Beecham’s Pills contain in their composition nothing but the most health-
giving ingredients of the finest quality obtainable. Beecham’s Pills do not
claim to be a ** cure-all” but they may be relied upon to improve the
digestive powers, strengthen the stomach, correct and stimulate the liver
and generally promote a condition of sound health and abundant bodily
vigour. Their undoubted success in these directions is the explanation
of the dominant position held to-day by
Beedtam’s Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled, price Io£d. (36 pills) 1/4 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Little Lectures
by Nurse 'Wincarnis.*
(Lecture No i.)
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease.
In Anaemia—or bloodless-
ness —the red corpuscles are
more or less deficient. Thus
the blood cannot provide
sufficient nourishment for
the body. Therefore the
face becomes white and
“pasty”— the eyes become
dull and “ heavy ” —and a
feeling of intense weariness 1
pervades the whole system, i
To overcome Anaemia, the
blood supply needs re-
charging with red corpuscles.
And it is here that
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood-maker, ‘ Wincarnis ’
creates a wealth of new, rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes
—and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
RAMEY’S MED/CATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat*
ment, only 10/-, post free.
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how Ions: standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
TALKS ON BICYCLE BUYING-
No. 3.
_J.
special advantage of
a bicycle built through-
out of B.S.A. Fittings is the
interchangeability of each
part. Should you lose or
damage any part any agent
can supply you with an exact
duplicate from stock, and it
is certain to fit because every
B.S.A. part is guaranteed to
one thousandth part of an
inch. Interchangeability is
an exclusive feature never
associated with a so-called
cheap " pattern ” machine.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
••THOROUGHLY BRITISH.”
B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Anthony Horderns’
Universal Bicycle.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with
EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling
and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS
BIRTLES. £l2/10/-. Write for
Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons
Only Universal Providers, Ltd.
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tlie
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


The All-Australian
Power/Transmitter,
LEATHER
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
It’s the
Original
Look for
the Name
Hardie’s Genuine
c£
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
lor Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane ;& Melbourne
A
C 5
There
is only
ONE
0
4
iS'
SCHNAPP
Munro Single Screw Bagger
mm Chafi'cutter.
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
“Olavton” Portable Steam Engine.
Complete Chaffcutting Plants
We have an excellent Chaffcutter in the
“MUNRO” Single-Screw Bagger, a machine
having a capacity of 30 to 40 cwt. per hour;
also a nice range of other types, comprising
Cutters fitted with Handy Baggers, Elevators,
etc.
Motive Power for Above.
We can offer our High-class and Reliable
“TANGYE" Lampless Oil Engine, either in
Stationary or Portable form, or the popular
“CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH” Portable
Steam Engine.
Satisfaction Guaranteed to Every Purchaser.
Other Agencies comprise:
Gane Milking Machines.
Wolseley Sheep-shearing Machines and
Separators.
Nicholson and Morrow Farm Implements.
Clayton and Shuttleworth Tractors and Steam
Waggons.
Tangye Suction Gas Plants, Pumps, etc.
Dalgety & Go. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Illustrated Catalogues of above posted gratis.
THE
v
UJ
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
Repairs to Handpieces
The Wolseley Workshops are always busy—but; two or
three months before the wool-sheds commence harvesting
the year’s growth they are taxed to their utmost limits.
Therefore it is easily realised how wise it is to send
your repair orders early.
Write for an interesting and fully descriptive leaflet on
the subject. It will be mailed you post free.
Sale Agents: DALGETY & CO. LTD., Miller's Point, Sydney.
They operate direct from any lamp socket —
CINCINNATI PORTABLE ELECTRIC
Hand and Breast Drills Tool Post Grinders
Heavy Duty Drills Bench Grinders
Heavy Duty Radials.
In every busy Engineer’s Shop you may see these tools in successful operation. THERE IS NO
INSTALLATION EXPENSE NSCESSARY —they can be used in any part of the worKshop where
there is eledlric wiring, and any lamp socKet is a source of power EITHER DIRECT OR ALTERNATING.
Allow us to demonstrate them on your own work, and learn for yourself of their advantages «
Sole
Agents:
Parke &
■
,- w ■■■
-
o.
■J
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Fastest Rock Drill in the World is the
HYDROMAX !
This sounds a large order, but read the following Test
EASTPOOL ROCK DRILL CONTEST, December 7, 8 and 10, 1914.
Total boring time for the three si
Total depth for the three shifts
Average boring time per shift
Average depth per shift
“Hydromax.’
13| hours.
220 ft. 4in.
4if hours.
73ft. Sin.
Next Best Drill.
13j hours.
118 ft Sin.
4i hours.
39ft. 6in.
The advantage in favor of the “HTDROMAX” Hammer Drill is therefore 85*6%
ENQUIRE INTO THIS AT ONCE FROM
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Bunding, SYDNEY.
