

JOI -V - 1 '‘W jBl. lR y £5 The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. G-. WATKINS «&S CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sy c3.lX€sy*»
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
nSSffSrwrww
ĥ
On all Classes of Security
BIJLdU® X>ISCOU3N['rBr>
Easylerms &Lowest Interest
NSWMSNT DE HETED-&IC1P
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
180 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215*217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
ħ
Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
► Made in Australia bi/ \
Frederick Steasns^C?
SYDNEY.
h
Take it back.
I must have-
ĥ
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
ħ
h
Fa, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
AMIWUD
Wallboard
afiOtfiey!
Samples and Booklets from The Paraffine Paint Company,
CHallis House, Sydney. (D. S. Evans. Australasian Manager^
MALTHOID
Roofing
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. Be AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
ROAD METAL. 6c FARM WAGGONS' IRON 6c MALLEABLE CASTINGS. *
GRANVILLE,
. N.S.W, .
ĥ
MINING
MACHINERY
J. Qa WALLIS & COa
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. [3
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
ħ
lavender
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y©]. 37. —N0. 1924.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
[Thursday, December 28, 1916.


COLE’S BOOK ARCAD
Books answering
SEX PROBLEMS,
PERSONAL HYGIENE FOR GIRLS, by Mary Humphries. £/-, .posted 2/3.
PLAIN PACTS ON SEX HYGIENE, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted 3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH GIRLS, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted 3/8.
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH BOYS, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6 posted 3/8.
BREATHE AND BE WELL, by W. Lee Howard. 3/6, posted 3/8.
HERSELF. Talks with Women Concerning Themselves. 6/6, posted 6/9.
TRUTHS Talks with a Bov Concerning Himself, by Lowry. 3/6, posted 3/8.
FAISE MODESTY, by Dr. E. B. Lowry. 3/6, posted 3/8. . -
CONFIDENCES. Talks with a Young Girl, by Dr. E. B. Lowry. 3/6, posted 3 ' B -
- FOR NERVOUS WOMEN, by J. K. Mitchell. 3/6, posted 3/9.
rftNFIDFNTIAL TALKS WITH YOUNG WOMEN, by L. B. Sperry. 4/-, posted 4/3.
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS WITH HUSBAND AND WIFE, by L. B. Sperry. 3/6, posted 3/9.
CONFIDENTIAL TALKS WITH YOUNG MEN, by L B. Sperry. 4/- posted 4/3.
WHAT A YOUNG BOY OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, posted 5/2.
WHAT A YOUNG MAN OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, posted 5/2.
WHAT A YOUNG HUSBAND OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, posted 5/2.
what A MAN OF 45 OUGHT TO KNOW, by S. Stall. 5/-, posted 5/2.
HEALTH AND HAPPINESS. A Message to Girls, by E. M. Mosher. 3/6, posted 3/9.
Tokology
A BOOK
FOR EVERY
WOMAN,
by
A. B.STOCKHAM
7/6, posted 7/9
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, 346 George St., Sydney ; and at Bourke St„ Melbourne.
“The Round Table”
For SEPTEMBER.
A REVIEW of British and Dominion Politics.
Includes noteworthy articles on Reconstruction
after the War and on France. Articles on Ireland,
Mr. Hughes in England, Split in Australian Labor
Movement.
2/6 per copy; 10/- per annum.
At MACMILLAN & CO., Melbourne. All booksellers.
m t\
)Z
l£
V
O
w W
Aft*
KILLS FLIES
The Red Page
Here’s to Australia!
This page has been almost swamped by
the toasts showered upon it in what
has been easily the most popular competition
held in recent years. Nearly 200 entries
were rejected before serious judgment could
begin. Incidentally, this competition brought
to light some interesting facts. Les H.
Pritchard writes: —
On Christmas Eve, 1914, in Cairo, I and
about 50 other Australians and M.L. boys
(“Anzae” was not coined then) were in
the Egyptian Cafe with a goodly number of
English soldiers, then doing garrison duty,
and French civilians. About midnight things
got rather lively, assisted by a fine orchestra-
A Frenchman asked'for “The Marseillaise,”
which was sung and toasted by the French-
men. “Rule Britannia” was then demanded,
toasted and sung, and then cheered by the
Tommies, the A. and M.L. boys assisting;
but as there was that outsider feeling to us,
my pal (who is still annoying the Huns in
France) knocked me in the ribs and said,
“Go on! toast Australia.” I had never
made a toast in my life, so I just
raised my glass and blurted out: “Aus-
tralians—Australia !” and shook hands
with those nearest me. We had no song to
follow up with,- for not even “Australia Will
be There” was known then. Well, if those
two words and the hand-shake did not imply
the real dinkum feeling and thoughts to each
one, I don’t know my pals. I do not claim
this is the first or only instance that those
two words were so reverently honored, but
I do claim all fancy phrases will never
. appeal to the Australians of Australia as
these.
And “16th Q.M.S.” writes: I don’t claim
to chip in with anything original, but the
Anzacs have to my mind a very pretty toast
much in use in London, viz., “Here’s how,
Jim, I love Australia.” Sounds tame; but
spend six months in the trenches, and a few
more in hospital, then go to Blighty on your
last furlough, booked for more strafe with
the next batch, holding no illusions about
the firing-line, ready to admit you were
crimson lucky to get off so light when that
shell burst, and you will know what it is
to hear a dinkum Billzac say,. “Here’s how
I love Australia.” Anyhow, it is Sasanof
to an issue of tinned dog you will buy him
another beer. You can’t imagine Bill say-
ing “Here’s to the dear ones at Home,” or
“The girl I left behind me,” but “Here’s
how I love Australia.” I have seen it scores
of times standing shoulder to shoulder in a
cosmopolitan crowd, that defiant. “How I
love Australia,” a toast and a challenge, and
then a pause, and that thoughtful, far-away
stare that looks clean across the seas, that
takes in, in silence, sweethearts, mothers,
wives and homes, and just a pause, and “Fill
’em up again, Mister. I guess it’s my turn.”
A “Bulletin Fiend,” whose only address
is “Yes” State, objects to any frill: To ask
for a toast in words or prose is an insult.
Words are a superfluity, and no journalist
can paint the lily. It needs but one word
shouted, when every Australian within
Marconi will upend his carcase, and dip
his beak until the glass is as dry as last
week’s sermon. For one word Billjim will
commit murder, arson or suicide. I supply
my toast free —if you doubt it send the
Religious Editor to any pubbery before
wowser-time (6 p.m..), let him walk boldly
to the counter and say:
“Gentlemen—AUSTRALIA!”
A number of competitors made the mis-
take of “saying a few kind words about
Australia.” giving us the proposer’s speech,
and not his tag. Excellent speeches were
made by “Simon,” R.G.F.. George R.
Hambidge and Bob Dexter. But what was
wanted was a toast, not a speech. The most
common error in the entries was the assump-
tion that the Anzae is solely Australian.
The Maorilander owns two letters of that
name to Australia’s one. (Incidentally jit
seems a pity that the name was not origin-
ally spelt A.M.L.A.0.) Thus a great num-
ber of toasts, in which Anzae formed part,
such as Katherine Greene’s “Australia —
Anzac’s mother,” had to be discarded, since
they would have applied equally to M.L.
Australia has no right to filch from her
brothers-in-arms, a proprietary interest in
their common title of honor. Some of the
other toasts were mere catalogues of wheat,
. wine, coal and the other goods in the Com-
monwealth’s shop-window. Many were
merely vague generalities that would have
applied to any country in the world. And
other fine toasts were too long. The toast
we want for Australia must be short enough
to be easily memorised, and one that will
apply for all time.
J*
Here is a first assortment-: —
Australia, loanly, but never sad. (“Paddymelon.”)
Australia, the land of the sunshine, the gums and
the plains,
Dry days and starry nights;
The land of bonnie bairns, brave men and land
women; ■
The land bright and big enough for all to find
hapoiness ;
The land where all know what, a drought is, and the
proper way to deal with it. (S. Longman.)
Australia, your country! my country. A country
as wide as our outlook should bo, as bright as tho
opinion we hold of her, and as full of sunshine as
our heai-ts are for the privilege of belonging to her.
(L. M. Sea.)
To the blue eyes within,
To the blue skies above,
To the blue seas surrounding,
And the land that we love,
Australia ! (Syd. J. Harris.)
Australia! May she always avoid Cape Danger,
and be on the Look Out against Cape Flattery. May
every woman be the Darling of some man, and none
the Hunter; so shall this be a Queensland among
the nations. May she make Hay while the sun
shines, and Grafton all the glories of a Sydney, a
Wellington and a Melbourne. May her Billjims in
France take a Great Australian Bight from the Ger*
mans. (Stella I. Strachan.)
! j___ drink
! ! all day!
Here’s to us both! We’re never loth, my oath !
Hip, hip, hoor ray ! (“Homo.”)
That the oppressors of our country, Australia, may
never enjoy the fruits of her soil nor the smiles of
her daughters. (“Australian.”)
Good ’ealth, ’Orstralia, you, ’oo’s creed is White,
’Go’s sunny land is free ’s ’eaven’s light;
Where ev’ry dinkum cove’s a eharnee fer wealth.
I loves yell, ’cause yer mine—’n’ ’crs —good ’ealth!
(“Danstewer.”)
When God knocked off one night, swore He:
“Me world’s a rotten failure!”
Gorblime, though, He’d let ’em see:
Next day He made Australyer 1
’N’ when yer reach the Golden Gate
No gag’ll much avail yer,
Unless yer records indicate
Fair dinkum to Australyer. (“Homo.”)
Australia! May the Cross never come down and
straddle her! (Julian MitchelL)
To the land we live in,
AVith its Anzacs and its Antis,
Its beaches, bays and bookies,
Its droughts, debts and Darling,
Its prickly-pear and politicians,
Its races and its rabbits,. • • .
.Its sunshine and its sti’ikes,
Its wool, wheat, wine, wattle and wowsers—
Australia ! (A. R. D.)
Feller countrymen, here’s fer Australia,
Be y’ dinkum blokes, rotters or frauds:
Wot’ll here or hereafter avail y’
But her ’onner ’n’ glory—’n’ Gawd’s?
(“Homo.”)
She valued Honor and Renown much more than gold,
And down the yeai's this shall in epics grand be told:
“When flew the Union Jack from ramparts stern
unfurled,
The white-starred flag flew with it against a warring
world.” (Fred C. Maynard.)
Australia, golden child of an iron era, white heir
of England’s darkest ages. Australia, whose sons
from the embers of the., centuries plucked the torch
of Anzae Day ! (G. Innes.)
Blokes, Australia fair! May our draught never
be a black one! (Alf T, Mangan.)
The Queen 'of the South!
The laurel-wreathed wattle
Her golden regalia 1
The trials of drouth
Or tempests of battle
More bright show Australia!
(L. J. V.)
Here’s to Little Boy Manly in his long trousers!
May he wear them well, and grow up to have always
a strong right hand for his friends and a dirty left
for his enemies. (J. D. 0.)
Here’s to the birthplace and home of the lanky,
Brave Anzae —his kind ’tis we need in a row.
Here’s to the land of the good gory blanky,
Here’s to the land of her Highness, the Cow —
Here’s to Australia ! (“Mick.”)
Here’s to the land of don’t-care-a-curse!
Whose emblem is gold—too rich for a purse!
Like its pure southern sea
Are its girls fair and free,
And its boys would take hell on —for better or worse,
(L. J. V.)
Australia—the baby of the nations—that irrespon-
sible, joyous and lusty kid, who when danger
menaced it threw away the rattle and picked up a
gun, and to the amazement of the world fought the
fiercest, grimest and bravest fight in the bloodiest
war in history. (Thos. Neville.)
Blokes! AVhen God made the earth, He forgot to
finish Australia. He scribbled a rough outline on
the map, but was too tired to fill it.in. Australians,
it’s up to us! (“Rab Cilbup.”)
She epurns to be spad—
She speeds ;
She’s loth to be led—•
She leads;
Where brave men have bled
She bleeds ;
Best Britain e’er bred,
She breeds;
Australia’s score read
Who reads
Of the fame of men dead
And their deeds ! (“Aflctor Pax.”)
Australia, the land God made before He left
gambling, the land of Gold and Desert, Drought to-
day and drown to-mori’ow, a Heaven with just
enough Hell in it to keep- us lively, the land of gin
and gum, ’roo and rum, the skiter and the skeeter,
the land of the future, whose present value to us is
to stop a fine thirst. So here’s Au-blanky-stralia!
(S. Longman.)
Australia!
Nona braver !
God save her! (C. H. Souter.)
Come off the kidding! It’s enough to make
White Australia change her color. Hear
what the other blokes think of their country :
To Australia —with all its cankers removed —poli-
ticians, antis, Iwontworks, strikers, wowsers, smelly
dramas and films, the public to whom they cater,
cheap American fashions and pugilists—in fact, to
the unknown quantity—a White Australia! Here’s
looking for it! (G. L. Findlay.)
Australia, stepmother of fighters and mother, of
skiters; better served by soldiers than statesmen;
immortal by the sword, immoral by the ballot-box;
a fortress in a foreig'n land, and a house of misrule
at home. (Q- Innes.)
Australia, gentlemen —the soul of quit.
(“A. Badloser.”)
Australia, the lone, loan land; the land of the
sheep, the ox and the paradox; the incontinent con-
tinent ; the land with six swelled heads and a
starving body: too ignorant and arrogant to irri-
gate ; the land where every man is at least three
times as good as every other man, and the women are
better still; the land where all the most illiberal
men are Liberals, and those who like least to Loot
support the Labor party; the land which teed the
Anzacs; the land which deserted them. (S. L.)
God’s own country—mortgaged to the Devil.
(Norman Picot.)
Some echoes of the Referendum:
' Australia —too Loud to Fight. (Norman Picot.)
Australia, the Ark—and the Nark —of Democracy.
(“Rab Cilbup.”)
Men of Australia! Wake up from your doss;
Raise the Red Banner! To hell with the boss!
(“The Left-handed Plumber.’ )
Australia, the latest, if not the greatest, of all the
Yes-No nations of the world. (“George Ginger.’ )
Here’s to Australia. What’s left of it. Drink to
her only sons, the heroes of Gallipoli, the brave
warriors on the battlefields of France. May they
never x-ealise the craven treachery of their brethren.
May their vision be blinded to the apostasy of innu-
merable national bastards. May they never see the
dimmed glory of the Southern Cross, the eternal
judgment of a nation’s shame. (J* E. H.)
Australia, the land of warm weather and cold feet.
(“Paddymelon.”)
Australia, may all your future Prime Ministers be
native-born Australians. (L. Clarke.)
J*
Of those left in for final decision, Bartlett
Adamson’s toast is a poem to be printed,
not a toast'to be spoken:—
This great Australia that our fathers won
In proud defiance of a thousand fates J
This ocean-garden sacred to the sun!
This land of home! O land where men
are mates!
Drink to your native ranges and your plains,
Men with the sunlight singing in your veins!
“Australia, the land of Sunshine and
Freedom. May there always be freedom in
her sunshine, and sunshine in her freedom,”
by “South Australian,” is a pretty play on
words, but almost tautological.
Sidney Finney’s:
To the women and men of you!
To the gold in the heart of you!
To the flag waving over you!
To the heroes who died for you!'
Sunny Australia!
might apply equally to other countries.
“Australia, whose sapphire girdle may no
ravishing foe ever break,” by “Number One,”
is too literary.
“The toast is Billjim—the soul of Aus-
tralia,” by “Two Blues,” is a toast for Aus-
tralasia.
Toasts like this one are easily memorised,
universal in application, but are not char--
acteristieally and solely Australian:
Here’s to the men who have proved them-
selves Men,
Who’re wearing • war’s blood-stained
regalia;
Here's to the mothers who sent them; and
then,
Here’s to their homeland, Australia!
(Hunt Coleman.)
The ugly use of galore, with an unneces-
sary, hut allowable, in before it, spoils
“Royal Orange’s”:
Scarlet sunsets, sunny skies,
Bomer tarts with bosker eyes,
Everything worth fighting for,
Blokes to do it in galore —
Australia!
L.lv.’s toast happily expresses the abund-
ance of our land, but is rather naive:
Then here’s to Australia, our self-contained
, land,
The home of Jim and Bill.
There’s damper in the humpy, boys,
And jumbucks on the hill!
The winner has to be selected from these:
“We drink to the Bush, to Sunshine, to
Sport, to Opportunity—our Motherland,
Australia!”
(“Two Blues.”)
“Australia, that dinkum mother who gives
her children an equal kick-off with a fiver
and a hearty, ‘Good luck, climb up; I’ve
room and plenty for you all.’ ”
(“Sarto.”)
I drink to Australia, this country of mates.
From Anzae to Glory keep open the gates!
(E. A. C. Springsure.)
“To the land of the golden fleece, golden
grain and golden opportunity—Australia.”
(Gus Logue.)
Good times to Australia! Kind, warm and
expansive Australia! May her midwives be
always busy! - (L. K.) ,
Happy-go-lucky Australyer,
May Billzac never fail yer!
(“Royal Orange.”)
“To Australia, with the Southern Cross
above it, but may its breed never he crossed.”
(Anon.)
“Australia, the land of strikes, loose
politicians and spare Parliaments, but, thank
God, the home of Beer and Billzac !”
(“Two Blues.”)
“Australia, the good-looking filly, out of
the British Isles, by Sunlight:
She’s a winner all right, but a wee bit cocky,
And all she wants is a capable jockey .”
(O. P. K.)
“Here’* to Australia! May she always
keep her complexion white without the aid
of powder I”
(J. D. Corbett.)
The fault of O.P.K.’s toast is that some
day Australia will have a capable jockey.
L.K.’s midwifery might not be approved
by a mixed assembly. Gus, Logue is
neat but not memorable. “Royal Orange”
and "Sarto” are strong competitors; but
the prize is awarded to J. D. Cor-
bett (E.T.0., Melbourne) for the neat
turn he gives to the White Australia policy.
But, gentlemen, if you don’t like this
toast the chairman will allow you to propose
any of the others.
WHAT BILLZAG REAUS.
“Inchiquin”: The Lord forbid that I
should say one word at all derogatory to
the Y.M.C.A. As a soldier I am full of
appreciation for the work they are doing
and the great convenience they are to us'.
But the other night I blew in to the one
attached to our camp, settled myself com-
fortably down at .the reading-table and
looked through the collection for something
to read. These are what I found: The
Welcome Visitor (a book containing
religious fables suitable for a kindergarten
Sunday-school class), The Bible (interest-
ing but too disjointed), London Punch of
July, 1912 (apparently in English eyes L.P.
no matter how old never fails to amuse),
The Sphere (a paper for ladies with some
interesting fashion pictures) and The
Sunday at Home.
“Sparrow”: Humorous poems and short
sketches are what our boys at the Front seem
to crave. “Garry” Roberts, a sort of godfather
to the “Sentimental Bloke,” showed me a
letter he had recently received from a cap-
tain, describing the return from a charge of
Anzacs on the German trenches. The boys
were breathing hard, but trying to look as
if this sort of thing was only part of the
day’s routine. The captain thought some-
thing was needed to take their minds off it,
anyhow, so he read out “Den’s” account of
the Sentimental Bloke’s visit to “Romeo and
Juliet” with Doreen. The effect was some-
thing to remember. Whether the boys were
worked up to a semi-hysterical pitch by
what they had just been through, or
whether they really had an extraordinarily
keen relish for Dennis’s-humor is not quite
clear; but they received the reading with
such uproarious delight that the captain
had to bring discipline to bear in order to
“moderate their exuberance,” as he put it.
-——— •
Art in Australia (edited and published
by Sydney Ure Smith, Bertram Stevens and
C. L. Jones, 55.; per Tyrrell’s, Ltd., Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, distributing agents),
looks like becoming a permanent possession,
the representative art journal of the Com-
monwealth. The aim of this magazine, which
if it goes on as well as it has begun, should'
eventually become a monthly, is to make the
work of Australian artists better known to
the Australian public. (And ultimately, why
not to the world?) And the editors, with a
crafty blend of art enthusiasm and commer-
cial acumen, have modestly refrained from
being heavy or technical. Each of the ad-
mirable color reproductions of our artists’
work (most of which are suitable for, and
deserve, -framing) has attached to it a brief
personal and critical note of the artist and
his method. That these criticisms are appre-
ciative does not detract from their truth,
since Australians are too much given to a
depreciation of their culture, and our art
stands comparison fairly with the work of
the younger artists of any other nation. The
other articles, which include a delightful
essay by Norman Lindsay, are commendably
brief and to the point. A feature of the
publication is a number of reproductions of
charming etchings and pen-drawings; and
another feature—equally valuable in the
cause of art —is the high quality of design
and spacing of the advertisements.
The Australian Soldiers’ Gift Booh, pub-
lished by the Voluntary Workers’ Associa-
tion in aid of the fund for building homes
for N. S. Wales soldiers, Sydney, and
edited by Ethel punter and Bertram Stevens,
is excellent value for the cash and the
cause. For some amazing reason it is dedi-
cated not to the returned soldiers but to the
temporary Governor of N. S. Wales
and his wife, on the ground that these visi-
tors to Australia “have taken an active in-
terest in the Association.” A good many of
us have done that. The writers and artists
appealed to (chiefly belonging to No South
Wales) have given generously of their
talents; and the volume forms a characteris-
tically Australian gift-book that will be wel-
comed as much here as it will be when sent
to the trenches.


Jk
w a
Anthony Horderns’for Toilet Requisites
8X45. 8X29.
No. BX4s. —Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Wreath design, 13/6 each.
No. BX29.—Clothes Whisk. Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Engraved Wreath design, 10in., 9/6 each.
No. 1.
No. 4
No. 2.
No. 3.
No. 5.
No. 7.
No. 8.
No. 6
Vanity Mirrors for Chatelaine or Purse, Electro-
plated on Special Metal, assorted designs.
Nos. 1 to 8, 5/6 each.
8X37. 8X39
No. BX37.—Clothes Whisk, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Ribbon design. Length lOin. 9/6 each.
No. BXB9. —Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Engraved Wreath design, 13/6 each.
No. BX4o:—Hair Brush, Electro-plated
on Special Metal, Engraved Wreath design,
11/6 each.
I HI
m
ml
8X49.
8X36
No. BX36.—Clothes Whisk, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Oxidised design. Length, LOin.
9/6 each.
No. BX49.—Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Oxidised design, 13/6 each.
8X47. 8X44.
No. BX47.—Hand Mirror, Electro-plated
Special Metal, Ribbon design, 13/6 each.
No. BX44,—Hair Brush, Electro-plated
Special Metal, Engraved design, 11/6 each.
Other designs illustrated in our Price List of
Presents. Write for a copy, post free on
Popular
request.
m :
■ ■Mnii
i. y
m
m
■■:■: -i
llllllllilllllllllllll
as
ML»T(lTil|)l||L.lg
I
tail
!l!!l;l'.';!l!!!!!l!l!!!!!l. l !l!l!!!ll. t !!!. l !!!l'!l.^ini4^1^l!^l??)mltjrl!nllni!T!itf!m!jj!jj!!!:!!. t !l!,'!”. , l!!!i,‘!!!l”,lj^!i!
No. 27BX.—Brush Set, Electro-plated on Special Metal, in
Satin-lined Case, containing Brush, Mirror and Comb, 42/- each.
;-v-
-i O
f. *
Ms
m
ElO.
BX2B.
BX4B.
No. ElO.—Lady’s Hair Brush, Ebony Back, with Silver
Shield, Best Bristles, 7/6, 10/6 to 16/- each.
No. BX2B.—Clothes Whisk, Electro-plated on Special
Metal, Engraved design; length, 10in., 9/6 each.
No. BX4B.—Hair Brush, Electro-plated on Special
Metal, Ribbon design, 11/6 each.
No. BXSO. —Hair Brush, Hlectro-plated
on Special Metal, Oxidised design, 11/6 each.
im
■
*
liil
I M ift I l
BX3B.
BX4I.
No. BX4l. —Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Fleur.de lis design, 13/6 each.
No. BX3B. —Clothes Whisk, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Finer delis design. Length 10in.
A 9/6 each.
8X46. 8X43.
No. 8X46. —Hair Brush, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Wreath design, 1 1/6 each.
No. BX43.—Hand Mirror, Electro-plated on
Special Metal, Engraved design, 13/6 each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


h
wv
I
m
mmSk
7/A
m
///
mi l
4>
•Ji
m
£
d&m
n
HAMMERLESS SHOTGUNS
MODEL 1912
Extra. Light Weight
Mad© fn 12,16 and 20 Gauges
There’s no need of carrying a
heavy gun. The use of Nickel
Steel makes it possible to get ex-
treme light weight with great
strength. But it costs more, and
so is not generally used. Win-
chester Model 1912 shot-
guns are constructed en-
tirely of nickel steel, which
makes it the lightest and
strongest gun on the
market. It is very hand-
some besides, and a relia-
ble, fine-shooting gun. Be
sure to see one before buy-
ing. Sold by all dealers.
THE REPEATER PAR EXCELLENCE 1
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual: Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
rmnidny
noi 3MV
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER AUL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WIN SLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them ‘‘Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house. '
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
\e
If any illustration appearing v in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Look For This
Signature
on every box of tooth powder or
tube of dental cream that you buy.
It is your guide to the stand-
ard dentifrice created by a doctor
of dental surgery and endorsed
most highly by the dental profes-
sion. You can depend on thesafety,
efficiency and high quality of either.
/;
/'% WiM
% I
KVf
El
IP o
Dr.LyDn's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
Dental Cream
Now you can gratify your preference for a dentifrice in
either powder or cream form by getting Dr. Lyon’s Perfect
Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder, known and endorsed the world
over for half a century, is a sutler • cleanser whose occasional use at
least is a duty you owe your teeth.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
& Beautify srs
HETffiHl
mt> wmrm
the tmmmjSi
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
ĥ
Seven
Pi*i*e Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
.TRADE MARK
Christinas 8 New Year Gifts!
FURTHER
REDUCTIONS.
6 ONLY D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, choke bore, walnut stock, pistol grip,
fitted with W. W. Greener patent wedge-fast crossholt.
Usual Price, £5/15/-. SALE PRICE, £3/1 5 /.
i ONLY CHAMPION HAMMERLESS D.8.8.L. GUNS, top action, walnut stock,
pistol grip, steel barrel. Usual Price, £lO. SALE PRICE, £6/6/-
6 ONLY 5.8.8. L. DUCK GUNS, long distance, top action, kill at over 100
Yards. Usual Price, £5. SALE PRICE, £3/10/-
FARMERS’ D.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 50/-. SALE PRICE, 27/6
FARMERS’ S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, SO/-. SALE PRICE, 20/-
Colt’s Lightning REPEATING RIFLES, to hold 12 shots.
S.B. BABBIT RIFLES, kill at 100 yards. “ UraS Price/ 17/6. S SALE* PRICE? 12/6
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on AppKcation to
SMALL ARMS CO.. 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
MR. GEORGE GOODMAN.
The following testimony is from Mr.
George Goodman, better known as
“Goody” in the profession, and one of
the most widely and professionally
known of a band of brilliant theatrical
managers who form an artistic link
between the theatrical past and
present.
Mr. Goodman has been associated with
the present firm of J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., for a long number of years, ex-
tending back to its inception, when
as “Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove,” it occupied, as it does to-day,
the foremost position in the theatrical
world of Australia, and was respon-
sible for the finest imported produc-
tions of Grand Opera and versatile
drama and comedy.
Mr. Goodman’s experience with these"
productions and association with the
many “stars” imported under the Wil-
liamson management, is proverbial,
and the following letter will be of
considerable interest to the many
members of the theatrical profession
throughout the Commonwealth, who,
physically exhausted by the exacting
nature of their many r6les, will find
in the medicine Mr. Goodman advo-
cates a nerve rejuvenator and health
restorer of remarkable power and cer-
tainty. Mr. Goodman writes from his_
Sydney residence thus :
BEVERLY, BAYSWATER ROAD,
DARLINGHURST, 20/9/’l6.
CEEMENTS TONIC Etd.
I know the horrors of insomnia or lack of refreshing sleep as well as any
who have suffered acutely from it.
I have endured it often, combined with an irritable, excited and weakene'h
nerve condition that almost ruined my health. lam not wrong in stating that
this condition at times almost incapacitated me from my managerial duties.
But I experienced a pleasing and grateful change after taking the medicine
I was advised to use —Clements Tonic. After taking it, that change may be
summarised thus:—
1. Sweet, refreshing sleep EVERY NIGHT.
2. Real healthy appetite.
3. True enjoyment of life through being absolutely well, which I
attribute to no other source than this remarkable medicine to which
I testify.
I am, Sirs,
(Signed) G. E. GOODMAN.
All Chemists sell CLEMENTS TONIC within the Commonwealth.
the very best remedy for “professional” weak nerves.
Clements Tonic,, Ltd., Jlozelle, N.S.W.
It is


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
Mdney&Bladder Pills
| These Pills also act on the liver, m
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE
i&e-.J Cs v^'H^Ts
J
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidney# Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
Est. 25 yrs.\
MEAD
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All*
Steel Mead Modele Superbe
* COVENTRY FLYER >
Rode 34*366 Miles in 366 Bays
(officially authenticated'. Beat over 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Latest
Models
£ 3-10 to £3
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carnage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free trial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue*
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL,
STOP
SMOKING!
M OST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It ’ takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, arid Stomach,
Liver or -Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE,, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences."
Mr. Frank Ford (lilackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 60 years,
but after taking your treatment for 1) days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.’ >
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2-
THE
DEAF
HEAS
i]
DEAFNESS OVERCOME
by wearing: WILSON’S COMMON-
I SENSE EAR-DRUMS.
Assist the Deaf when all
other devices fail, and where
medical, skill has given no
relief. They are soft, com-
fortable and durable.
STAR NOVELTY CO., Box 466,
498 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of sis, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
ħ
A Cooling Lotion to prevent
Scorching and Burning of the
San for Bathers, Motorists.
Tourists, etc.
ALL CHEMISTS
I/O BOTTLE
OR POST FREE
BonninoToiw
*7O HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
MOSOWTOBAWE
A few drops applied to tde
Bands and Face faeep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONIMINGTON & CO.. LTD.
179 Harris Street. SYDNEV
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
If you must rear
baby by hand
Then there***
his Bottle
Mellin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
simple Feeder.
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s. Milk; its success is evidenced by
world-wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious cooking —it is alike a boon to the
nursing mother and satisfving to the child.
Mellin's
Food
Write NOW for sample of Mellin’s Food and useful Handbook
for Mothers —“The Care of Infants in Australia”—post free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
*2?
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
ĥ
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,6B Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Challenge.
She raced and frolicked with a merry crew
And dared the devil, as some women do.
She cried, “Who catches me, and holds me
tight
Against you all, shall be my love to-night!”
Then, as she ran, her laughter down the
wind
Sobbed challenges to the mad rout behind ;
Till at her shoulder came a panting
breath....
She turned, and fell into the arms of Death.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Dawn of Love.
Since that we met I can but dream my
dreams;
My hands fall idle from my weaving task;
For my heart’s flame my body serves as
mask,
As the dull scabbard hides the sword’s white
gleams.
And this, I muse, he looked, or this he said,
Or herent was his swift lips pressed my hair,
Leaving the strands caressed more golden
fair.
His finger-tips have rouged my cheeks rose-
red.
The day is radiant as a skylark’s flight,
The sea a jewel flung in golden space,
Pulsing to where the moon’s white shoulder
gleams
Half slipping through her robe of velvet
night,
My laughing fingers flush and inter-lace.
Since that we met I can but dream my
dreams.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
The Dying Tree.
The yellow'leaves are falling,
And sere the branches wave;
Ah, Grace and Joy and Beauty
Are withering for the grave.
A lingering sunbeam’s gilding
The crest of yonder tree,
Oh, may it not the farewell kiss
Of fading Summer be?
I feel as if the teardrops
Must fall like wintry rain;
This scene hath brought before me
Our parting hour again.
O love, ’twas mine to leave thee,
Thy early doom foresee;
I was the parting summer—
And thou the dying tree.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B
Cui Bono?
Out of the sunset splendor, that turned the
sky to flame,
To me in the dingy city the voice of the sea-
wind came—
Caine with a mystical message that only my
heart could hear,
Of the marvellous City of Amber, on her
mountain ridge throned clear
A thousand feet from the plains that drowse
below in the heat.
Where the bullocks grunt from the mudpools,
and the scream of a parrakeet
Shatters the noonday silence where the
peepul branches twine,
Shedding a solemn shadow about the white-
walled shrine.
Once, when the world was younger, or ere
men’s hearts grew old,
We watched from the walls of Amber the
banners of dawn unrolled,
Pomp of purple and azure, splendor of scarlet
and gold.
Does no dim memory waken of the wonder-
ful nights we knew,
When the hot white stars above us burned
deep in the boundless blue?
And your star-eyes mocked me and mad-
dened, till my passionate lips were
pressed
To the blood-red bloom of your mouth and
the wildflowers twain of your breast?
I was a slave in Amber, and you from a
monarch sprung,
But you swore that you loved me once in
days when love and the world were
young!
Over the walls of Amber the wild vine trails
and twines /
Her desolate wanton blossoms; the prowling
jackal whines
In the Hall of a Hundred Columns, where
king spoke once with king,
While the people trembled and waited the
word that the day might bring.
Never a voice in the stillness, never a step to
wake
The age-old sleep of the city that never again
shall wake.
Only the grey ape chatters amid the deodars ;
Only the crumbling ruins lie naked beneath
the stars.
Cone is the greatness of Amber ! The beauty,
the strength and the pride.
They are gone, they are lost, they are scat-
tered, as the foam of a fallen tide.
As the flush that fades with the sunset, as
the flame that dies with the dew,
They are utterly fled and forgotten—and you
have forgotten, too.
Forgotten!—but I remember the nights that
we two have known
In the perfumed hush of your chamber, when
you swore you were mine alone.
It was false as Hell, and I knew it well; but
I knew it in vain, for how
Could I cease to love you because you lied?
—as I know you lie to me now!
N.S.'W.
F. S. BIRNELL.


PERDRIAU
GARDEN
HOSE
Made in Australia
and
Obtainable from All Stores
Look for the registered brand,
moulded on every coil.
PERDRIAU RUBBER GO. LTD.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
“WATERSHED”
Regd. Brand.
A very high-grade RED RUBBER Hose, light ana
flexible, but strong enough to stand the highest water
pressure. Specially made to resist our climatic con-
ditions.
“PROSPECT”
Itegd. Brand'.
The best low-priced Black Rubber Hose on the market.
RELIEF for RUPTUR
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
D ENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
2SI George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
<? vU, V>
13
Plume
Benzine
Vf
She cranks easily, Madam,
with Plume Benzine!
They were inspecting a new car with a
view to purchase. Visions.of frantically
cranking the engine amid a. gaping crowd
of onlookers arose in the lady’s mind, for
she intended to drive the car occasionally.
But the salesman explained that easy start-
ing depended largely on the motor spirit
used.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
“Plume” is famous for easy starting, be-
sides giving more mileage and ensuring a
clean cylinder. The ready response of
Plume Motor Spirit at all times wins the
confidence of Lady Motorists.
Correct Lubrication
To keep your car new you must lubricate
correctly. Gargoyle Mobiloils furnish the
correct lubrication. “A grade for each type
of Motor.” Our Recommendation Chart —
mailed free upon request—will show you
the grade to use in your car. For sale at
all dealers and garages.
Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Pb 3
/
ħ
h
m
F
m
F
**i
Ei
m
X
r .JF* f jK*
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
miVAI &CO 13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
uurni. MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1924.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1916.
Price 6d.
BILLJIM TAKES AUSTRALIA’S SALUTE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
•Tinted and published by William ' Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
rUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Jnsufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin- will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., JjJ/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago ,
U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.— Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Mono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Bapua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord llowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z..
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; 81oz. to 10oz., 2id. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsetvhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
'ffiuT&i tHeZz/n.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1916.
CURVES AND ANGLES: A NEW YEAR
SERMON.
The theory that the world moves on a zig-
zag' course, and that its zigs and its zags
occur at stated intervals, clearly defined and
properly marked on the calendar, has as
many holes in it as a fowl-run of wife-net-
ting. The circular sweep of the solar system
seems to have caught up everything in its
train. The wind goes in circles; tree-bole
and flower and grass-stem all aim at the
rounded shape; Sissy is only beautiful in
as far as she curves; and if human events
and man’s mind and the general set of the
communal and individual soul move to com-
pleteness in a circle, they are evidently fol-
lowing some sort of law which insists on the
universe and all that it contains chasing its
tail with the enthusiasm of a sportive kitten
and the despair of a religious zealot who
ea n’t get rid of his fondness for beer. Still, the
idea is firmly planted in the universal mind
that there are turning-points of a sharp and
definite kind along every track, and that by
pausing on one of these, holding on to your
boots and saying your prayers, a lot of fine
resolutions may be made which can alter
the whole shape of the future. The choice
and particular time for these efforts after
righteousness is supposed to be the New
Year, and the effect is such that for quite
one-thirtieth of January people feel a new
cleanliness of purpose under their waistcoats
which suggests a genuine reduction in the
moral laundry bill. Of course, the year
isn’t any newer on January 1 than it is
on August 16, but that doesn’t matter to
the person bent on reform. . The calendar
says there is a break there, and a new num-
ber goes at the top of the letters we write,
so the alleged kink in time is sufficiently
obvious for practical purposes. That the
next New Year may hear the same resolu-
tions made with the same penitence for the
past and zeal for the future is nothing. A
new leaf is to be turned and a lily-white
desire breathes on its first flutter.
* *
The real crisis of the world may be con-
nected Avith astrology and assisted by a mil-
lennial conference of stars, but the astrono-
mer can’t connect up Avith them in his
grouping of weeks and months around the
acrobatics of the moon and sun. They come
noiselessly; they go without blast of trum-
pet ; and they may or may not be of import-
ance in the sum of things. Lincoln’s
proclamation which flung down the challenge
to the nigger-exploiting States was a large
and far-reaching noise; but the real crisis
which made it inevitable that South Caro-
lina should grip New Hampshire by the
throat was probably the almost-unnoticed
execution of John Brown. The Battle of
Hastings made a wild uproar in England,
but the fact that Robert the Devil fell in
love with a washerwoman was the real cause
of the Norman Conquest. The murder of
an Archduke in Bosnia and the subsequent
shriek of the German as he inserted his claws
in Belgium had something to do with the
present war; but an impoverished Prussian
family or. two with-notions of fighting out
an inheritance for some utterly useless
younger sons was probably responsible for a
lot more. In fact, Longfellow was pulling
his own leg when lie deprecated the tendency
to declare that “things are not what they
seem |; for lie was old enough in rhyme and
experience to know well that the out-
side look of the world is as tricky and decep-
tive. as the froth on ginger-beer and as little
to be trusted as the bartow-man who sells
Lb bananas for sixpence. If the world could
catch a real crisis, nail it down with dog-
spikes or something and make a lot of good
resolutions there and then, it might be worth
while ; but the trouble about all the alleged
'turning-points is that the more you look at
them the gentler curves they seem to assume.
Ancient Rome got a fresh start when
Brennus had retired with his plunder, and
every historian still points to that event as a
crisis in the history of man. But stand off
and look at the distant happening in the light
of other occurrences only a little less ancient.
What did Brennus and the whole Gallic in-
vasion amount to by the time Nero had
kissed the Vestal Virgins and lighted up
his pleasure-grounds with a few rows of
burning Christians? What did Rome matter,
anyhow, or Christopher Columbus or the
Athanasian Creed or the Bill of Rights or
the fall of Constantinople? Somebody else
was always doing something else at the time
that other people were doing a lot of different
things; and the general result was that the
world swept round the curve and didn’t turn
at any sharp angle from the path of its
alleged progress. It is, of course, a damnable
and dangerous doctrine that “nothing mat-
ters”; but it is a damnably difficult thing to
prove that anything in particular ever did
matter. Yet the great and abiding hope of
mankind is that something might matter and
could be made to matter; and in that hope
men reach out after the future with a
fistful of resolutions and an ecstatic look in
their eyes. It is that look which causes them
to be classed as men and grouped into sep-
arate pens from the unimaginative but
entirely well-meaning sheep and cows who
take the solar curve with a steady simplicity
of beef and mutton and never know that the
New Year has arrived.
* * * *
The charge was once solemnly laid
against the Early Christians that they had
■turned the world upside down. It seems to
have been just about the best thing that
eyer was said of them, though subsequent
events didn’t entirely bear out the charge.
To get a real heave on and turn the whole
concern entirely ovfer looks like an under-
taking that would be' in every way profit-
able and to jbe desired. That Australia fahes
the New Year wrong side up appears to
admit of no doubt. There are elements in
the make-up of this country and its people
that are.worth swelling epics and morning
hymns and evening prayers and more solid
cash than the whole world has to its
credit; and there are things foisted upon
us and tangled up with our lives that are
so base and futile and every way lamentable
that the wonder is how the national decency
we possess can exist under them. For the
unpleasant fact stands that the things we
ought to have no use for are on top of us
and that the real Australia —the Australia
that ought to be arising and shining and
awaking and getting a move on —is buried
underneath them. Clearly, the one burning
and desperate need of Australia is to be
turned upside down—to be set right end up.
The New Year, like every New Year that
went before it or like any other old time,
is full of opportunity; and it is not merely
up to somebody to do something but for
everybody to do a lot. If the new season
now supposed to open, as the skirts of a
more or less merry Christmas trail away,
can’t be fixed upon as the one special and
overshadowing crisis in our national his-
tory, at least it is evident to all who have
eyes to see that the times are critical
enough. Our machinery of government
weakens and goes to pieces ; our ideals are
mixed and uncertain ; the easy confidence in
our destiny and the future which marked
the years of piping peace is rudely shaken.
Small matters of self-interest are allowed
to outweigh the big national purposes which
we once saw forming; and the dangers
which beset us spring from smaller and
ever smaller causes. The war, which was
expected to weld us into one people united
in hope, sorrow and achievement, has only
tended to intensify our weaknesses. A riot
of mad finance passes for political effort;
a miserable clinging to office represents all
we have of statesmanship. We have left
undone the things that we ought to have
done and done a lot of things that must
be undone with loss and suffering; but
even now it cannot be fairly said that
there is no health in us. Australia is sound
enough at heart. What we want is revolu-
tion —not a revolution of blood and folly
with trimmings of plunder and tears, but
a complete upturning that will bring all
that is best to the top. The patience of the
Commonwealth is amazing; but it is not
to be counted to us for virtue. We want
the divine impatience that is- intolerant of
sham and fraud and firmly resolved to end
them. The situation is plain enough. If
we don’t end the shams and frauds, they
will end ns. The best New Year’s gift that
any Australian can offer to his country is an
honest and critical examination of its affairs.
Once that examination is made the rest
should come easy. Australia’s boot is big
enough once there is a firm resolve in the
brain behind it,
LABOR, THE I.W.W. AMD PALSIED
Parliaments.
Having passed for the period of the war and
six months afterwards a measure to sup-
press the 1.W.W., the Federal Government
can be relied upon to pose as the authors of
an Act by which the community will be
rescued from a sort of Red Terror. The
public can also be depended upon to discover
that for the uurposes the Ministry has in
view, or for any other serious purpose, this
Act is going to be as futile as a penn’orth
of peanuts. What it will succeed in doing
is to check in some measure a handful of
feather-headed individuals from the open
advocacy of crime—from yelling in public
places that the blood of the plutocrat should
be sprinkled over the landscape and the
abode of Fat reduced to ashes. What it
will not do is to interrupt even for a day
the spread of the particular doctrines and
industrial practices which the I.W.W. has
been in the habit of recommending. So far
as the criminal activities of individuals con-
nected with the I.W.W. are concerned, these
can be easily dealt with. But the Govern-
ment can by legislation of this kind no more
stop the adoption of the “go slow” policy or
the advocacy of the general strike than it can
change the direction of the wind. And it is
well within the bounds of truth to say that
the I.W.W. ideas on these subjects are enter-
tained more than favorably by a very large
number of Australian trades unionists. The
attempt that has been made to identify the
Labor movement throughout the Common-
wealth with the criminalities of the I.W.W.
is foolish. Murder and arson appeal to only a
handful of reckless individuals on about the
same level of intelligence as the inflamed citi-
zen who in times of industrial disturbance
can be heard recommending the execution of
trade-union secretaries. But the call to
“the class war,” to the universal slow-down
and the perpetration of industrial chaos is a
different proposition altogether. What are the
Australian Governments going to do about
that? Rant about “criminals” is in this
connection worthless. The spirit of revolt is
spreading fast. But the leading propagan-
dists have not been a few poor fools wno saw
blood and fire; they have been the political
tricksters and adventurers who for a score of
years have been leading the mass of the
peonle into a bog and have now nothing to
offer them except assurances that they want
to go on being the people’s leaders.
Labor has been fooled. Its platform is
ant-eaten from top to bottom. It started out
as an agency to secure legal, administrative
and economic reform. In a few directions it
succeeded —superficially, as a rule. But, as a
general thing, it has failed to do more than
create a mass of opportunity for fresh efforts
at reform —‘to make greater difficulties
for itself. Every Labor man knows it.
Every citiKen knows it. And ffs the
people did not know where the dopers
and juntas were steering, so many of them
are unable to see to-day the deeper pit
towards which they are being driven by the
sinister delusion that the way to salvation
is along the path of civic and industrial
anarchy. It is as useless to expect that
these conditions are even touched by upend-
ing the I.W.W. organisation as to imagine
that that upending will produce a period of
peace and goodwill and all the rest of it..
The truth about Australia is that as a
nation we are plunged in a welter of confused
policies, uncertain and timid, with the whole
superstructure of our legislation and the
entire fabric of our economic condition rest-
ing upon the perilous foundation of debt.
The party joss has been worshipped as if it
were divine. And now when the brute’s
hoofs cast a shadow over all our institu-
tions and the consequences of a prolonged
squalid scramble are being felt, and Parlia-
ments are mostly engaged in showing their
impotence, this paper at any rate is not sur-
prised that a fresh sort of folly should be
growing into a popular pastime. The
Bulletin long ago and many times ex-
plained what was coming. But it has no
sort of doubt that squashing the I.W.W.
represents little more as a measure of states-
manship than chasing a fly out of a butcher’s
shop. "It will no neither good nor harm ”
said Macdougall in the Senate, and that is
about the beginning and the end of it.
* * * *
Meanwhile, through Labor’s own inepti-
tude and the trifling of Parliaments, men
and women are being taught by the State
more than one of the lessons promulgated
by the I.W.W. It would be merely fatuous
for anyone to argue that during the past
couple of years Australian Governments
have not directly encouraged organised labor
to make war on the rest of the community
and incidentally upon itself. All through the
piece the attitude of the State has been that
of a bewildered onlooker miserably wringing
its hands, vainly trying to hold back the
rising tide by the desperate expedient of
handing out doles from a cashbox stuffed
with loan money—struggling by waste and
muddle to perpetuate a bogus prosperity
which was passed off as a substitute for the
outcome of those real nation-building reforms
that must yet come in Australia. The pro-
testations heard from many Labor platforms
repudiating the I.W.W. are genuine enough.
The Australian Labor movement has had no
place for the rabble which gravitated to an
organisation bringing to Australia the gospel
of violence engendered by deep social wrongs
and miseries in other countries. In its
genesis that movement was a repudiat'on of
nearly everything the I.W.W. stands for. It
still is. But it is impossible for Australians
not to observe that the identification of the
Labor movement with the hold-up and the
theory of industrial bash is becoming very
intimate. This is a position full of danger to
Labor as a political force ; and it is up to
Labor to realise that there are powerful
political influences at work which, rather
than ddter trades-unionists from abandon-
ing policies of sanity, would encourage
them to rush to destruction. If Labor
insists on giving the population addi-
tional daily evidence that in the indus-
trial arena it wants to stand for
frightfulnesss, and in the political field for
borrowing and loafing and bloating, then
there is going to be another earthquake and
quite a lot of the national crockery will be
broken. But the theories which thus threaten
the Labor party (and incidentally the C om-
mon wealth ) are not going to evaporate just
because the I.W.W. is ceasing to collect sub-
scriptions and hold seances for the study of
spontaneous combustion. It is the causes
which provoke men to listen to these theories
that have to be grappled with.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Repatriation by Talk.
Once again The Bulletin asks whether
there is anyone in the Commonwealth able
to explain h'ow much longef it will be before
this repatriation business consists of any-
thing bnt words. A fund has been created,
a committee appointed, a scheme put for-
ward for getting more funds, frequent con-
ferences held, a vast amount of printed
matter issued, and it all boils down to —
nothing ! Everyone appears to be in deadly
earnest and giving the matter close atten-
tion ; but anyone who wants to see the
machinery for the repatriation of the Aus-
tralian armies finds only a gust of wind.
While a number of people are talking about
the subject thousands of men are coming
back from the Front. Do these men come
within the ambit of any repatriation scheme
or do they not? If they do, why can they
not expeditiously know all about it? All
they can get is vague prattle about mil-
lions. The Federal Government was talk-
ing a few months ago about £10,000,000.
Now Hughes says this will probably be
inadequate. .Toe Cook’s view is that
£30,000,000 will be insufficient. But exactly
what they are all aiming at is concealed in
gloom. This is not good enough. A soldier
coming from the wars wants to know (1)
1916.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the Limbo of the Past,
Where the years beyond recall
Lounge in stupor, came at last
This the bloodiest year of alb
Neko’s year from off his throne
Scuffled down to give him room ;
Tears the Goths had made their own
Veiled their brows in midnight doom.
Hun- and Spaniard-ridden years
Mouthing maledictions stood.
For his cloak was drenched with tears,
And his feet were trailing blood.
In his hands he held a screed
Telling of his ruthless sway :
Writ in red for Time to read
Ran the record of each day.
Here were sinking ships set down,
Here was told of greed and lust,
Here of ravaged farm and town
Wrecked and tumbled in the dust.
There it spoke of grim assault,
Winter-frost and famine-blight;
There of Heaven’s azure vault
Raining death throughout the night.
Here it told of blasted hope,
Ruined hearths and mercy fled ;
There of grassy hill and -slope
Pavemented with pallid dead.
Never yet, since Time began,
Had the monstrous choul of Fate
So be-mocked and humbled man,
So enthroned the fiend of Hate.
All the war-years, reading, cheered,
Circling in a scowling ring;
And with cries and gestures weird
Crowned the red newcomer king.
Down the limbo of the Past,
Through the long, grey ages mute.
Rang the news that man at last
Had out-bruted beast and brute.
Then arose the gracious years,
They that filled the golden age,
And their eyes were filled with tears.
And theii- heai-ts with noble rage.
“Shame,” they shouted, “deathless shame,
Shall be h i the ages down,
Whom exultantly ye name
King by right of red renown !
■“Trailing blood and drenched with tears,
Ye have named him front and first;
Reddest of the red war-years,
He shall stand a thing accursed !
“Nurselings in the dark shall tell
Of the woes his coming brought;
Men shall link his name with Hell,
■ Shuddering at the wrongs he wrought!”
Then the throned newcomer rose,
Anger dead, and in his eyes
Such a light as sometimes glows
After storm in sunset skies.
“Here and there,” he said, “behold”—
And his voice grew woman-soft —
“Certain lines are writ in gold,”
And he held his scroll aloft.
Then they thronged about his throne,
And they read with bated breath
Epic lines, wherein was shown
Liberty defying Death.
Never yet recording page
Showed such noble sacrifice ;
And they saw, and all their rage
Thinned and thawed away like ice.
There they read of heroes brave
Yielding fireside love and ease,
Life itself, that Man should have
Sweet redemption and release.
All the Golden Years grew glad,
Ranging in a glowing ring •
And, their hearts no longer sad,
Owned the great newcomer king.
Down the Limbo of the Past.
Lit by weird ana ancient lights,
Rang the news that man at last
Had attained to godly heights.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


what is on tap and (2) where he can get
it without employing a corps of black-
trackers, detectives and confidential inquiry
agents and making the acquaintance of
Costs. For him to learn only that the
whole subject is being kept steadily in
view is useless. Whether there ought to
be a general repatriation scheme is another
matter. This paper believes that if the
politicians did their duty there would be
ample opportunity for every man willing
and able to work. It is to the men who
come back maimed or stricken by illness
that the Government owes its first duty-
to the widows and orphans and impover-
ished relatives of the fallen. For them the
country cannot do too much j and the plans
hatched fOr meeting these obligations ought
to be bn a more permanent basis than they
are. Blit if there is to be a gehe.tai repatria-
tion st'bemej Covering the whole personnel
of the army, it is. an indecency that the
thing should still be a nebulosity though
large drafts of men have long since returned.
+
The Wasteful Use of Roosters’ Tails.
The accusation made against itself by the
N. S. Wales Government the other day of
an intention to lay violent hands on the
office of State Governor fell' as flat as the
beer that was spilled yesterday. No “Work-
ing Man” wrote to the Daily Telegraph
protesting against the severance of the bonds,
and not a single “Liberal Elector” bom-
barded the Herald with demands to know
whether the I.W.W. was in office. Nobody,
in short, troubled, because nobody believed
that the Ministry was in earnest over this
business. Yet the subject is one the com-
munity has a right to expect the numerous
Parliaments of Australia to approach with
sincerity. The country is _ simply infested
with Cocked Hats. There is no exctfse for
this. They are not wanted. They do nothing
that could not be done by some undecorated
person as a side-line. They are not taken
seriously, even by themselves. They live In
idleness. The yarn about their being con-
stitutional buffers or something is mostly
myth. They contribute nothing to the
national Wealth Or to the public Safety, And
they are horribly expensive. Heaveh knows
what they cost altogether, but the direct
mofietary charge for salaries ftnd repairs,
etc., ambuhts tb £71,000, of Which about
£lO,OOO is for etc. if the value of the
premises and offices occupied by these people
were taken into account and their free rail-
way transport brought into the sum, the
cost would probablv run, out at £BO,OOO, and
that is £l6OO a week, which is a lot of money
for Cocked Hats. When provided by
5,000,000 people it looks like evidence of
lunacy. No country on earth with a popula-
tion such as this ever paid anything within
coo-ee of what Australia gets rid of every
year for the support of Governors, Parlia-
ments, Speakers, Ushers of the Black Rod,
Lord Mayors and similar institutions. No
country could afford it. With a horribly
expensive war to pay for, Australia certainly
cannot.
The Alien Mob as a Pillar of War.
The ease with which the large paper army
of Roumania was pushed aside by the Ger-
man's seems to indicate that mere numerical
strength is not an important - factor even
in modern war. Roumanian soldiers,
hardened, by the shifts and chances of the
retreat, may come back and find their
punch, or the fighting Russian at their side
may stiffen them into something stronger
and more determined; but the fact that
their initial successes were so soon followed
by disaster, and that they could not even
maintain themselves in the strong places of
their own mountains, seems to indicate that
armies are what they prove themselves to
be and nothing more. Austrian armies,
first and last, appear to be poor business.
Backed by Germans, and with Germans to
take the brhnt of every attack, they may
just hold their oWh; but alone and unaided
they were no sort of match foi’ either Rus-
sians or Servians and, on equal terms, the
Italians can walk over them. The deduc-
tions to be made from such cases as those
of Austria and Roumania heap scorn on the
idea that one nation can arm another of
vast numerical strength but little resolution
to fight in its wars of aggression. Even
England, after centuries of rule in India,
could not arm the millions of that big, hot
dependency to fight in her quarrel. Certain
races of India can no doubt be .armed in
their thousands to do good service any-
where ; but not the teeming brown person of
that land as a whole. Where there is no
stomach for fight it would take a vast amount
of training and organisation to produce even
second-rate soldiers. Looking at the legions
in the field to day, the success of those that
have fought well can be traced directly to
one of two causes. Either they are in the
controversy with a keen desire to gain some
personal advantage, or there is a fine sense
of nationalism in the ranks. The common
soldier of most of the Austrian Empire has
nothing to gain by winning battles and noth-
ing serious to lose by defeat. Roumania’s
peasantry appear to be as yet unawakened.
On the other hand, Germany, with all its
crimes, is united and looks at things nation-
ally ; Russia, with her religion and patriot-
ism blended, moves and acts like one great
armed crusading church; and Bulgaria,
grown into a nation through the pains and
fears of the years of her Turkish bondage,
seems a very solid little proposition from
the military standpoint. More than that,
the Bulgar, like the Turk, has brigandage
in his blood and is as eager to gain some
soil in Macedonia as the Prussian was to
inherit the earth before the German Chan-
cellor flew his olive-tailed kite of loving
kindness. England and France are, of course,
urged mostly by a keen patriotism in which
self-preservation in the best sense counts a
lot. To talk, however, as some in London
did a few' months ago, of raising a force of
two million African niggers to settle the
German, is obviously absurd, just as it is
absurd to imagine somebody arming fifty
millions or so of unwilling Chinamen to con-
quer Australia or the United States or man-
kind. The dearest sort of soldier is the
one w r ho looks cheapest.
Red Tape at the Wicket.
The best excuse that Hughes could make
last week for levying income tax on a basis
which could qot be criticised because nobody
in the Federal Parliament understood it, was
that the method of calculation was “scientific,
mathematical, infinitesimal and equitable.”
He might just as well have said that it was
poetical, practical, incomprehensible and
simple. As the thing stands a citizen who
wants to know what his income tax is going
to be is faced with a big necessity for retir-
ing into a remote cellar with his arithmetic
and elaborate diagrams and a supply of
curves, squares, rhomboids and isosceles
triangles, and there in a vast silence proceed
to wrestle with multitudinous divisions and
multiplications and subtractions, keeping
throughout an eye on the decimal point,
because if he gets that in the wrong place
the whole thing will become a joke. This
paper has often wondered how the Roman
tradesman kept his books, but beyond sus-
pecting that a paddock was indispensable for
multiplying CCXIX by XXXVIII, has given
the subject no as a bad job. It has now
arrived at the conclusion that, by the time
the citizens of Australia have finished mak-
ing preliminary investigations into their lia-
bility for income tax, the yell to know why
paper is not manufactured on the premises
will be loud in the land. The whole business
has been absurdly complicated, and, so far as
The Bulletin is able to see, the only pos-
sible justification for the confused figuring
is that a host of clerks will have something
to do. The theory of graduation, which is
at the bottom of the system devised for cal-
culating the tax, is sound enough. In prac-
tice it is being carried to a point that makes
it merely a fetich of Red Tape. And the
consequence to the public is that not 1 per
cent, of the people or even a fractional num-
ber of members of Parliament could make
any rational explanation of the system fol-
lowed.
Ireland and the National Crisis.
From an Australian politician in khaki in
England:—
The attitude of Ireland is giving' good Liberal
opinion in the United Kingdom serious concern,
though it is difficult yet to say to what extent it is
going to affect Nationalist aspirations. That injury
has been, and is being, done by the insanity of the
extreme faction is" beyond doubt. The rebellion was
bad enough in all conscience. The heart-wrenching
cry it brought from John Redmond at a dinner
tendered to the Queensland Premier at Westminster
was sufficient evidence of that. Its evil results might,
however, have been lived down; for the best ele-
ments of Irish Nationalism repudiated it.' But now
the hemlock Is on the board again. Sir William
Robertson, Chief of the Imperial General Staff, is
demanding more men for the Front, and the question
of extending conscription to Ireland again conics
up. The problem of the great exempt area of Ireland
is serious, and its difficulties admittedly are great.
But in it lies Ireland’s opportunity. There is an
elemental injustice in the Irish people not bearing
their full share of the common burden —those who
have voluntarily taken it up have discharged their
obligations gloriously—and John Redmond’s pro-
nouncement at Waterford on October 6 did not dissi-
pate this contention. Home Rule, he declared in
effect, was safe if Ireland remained sane. But is
she remaining sane? I have long been a supporter
of Home Rule, have subscribed to its funds, have
spoken for Ireland on the platform, have Irish blood
in my veins. But lam doubtful of Ireland’s sanity
in her present attitude —doubtful and disappointed.
By taking up at the present juncture her full share
of the present heavy burden, legitimate Irish aspira-
tions might have been consolidated, friendships
strengthened, and the evil results of the -rebellion
largely scotched. In repudiating her obligations
in respect of national service she is not only robbing
herself of the full fruits of final victory, but is
alienating a fine body of Liberal support in the
United Kingdom that she can ill afford to lose.
I had opportunity the other day of talking with
men who have lent a steady support to Liberalism
and Home Rule since the days of - the advent of
CamPbEll-Bannehman. Frankly they were disap-
pointed, and they recognised that a substantial sec-
tion of English, Scotch and Welsh Liberalism will ■
withdraw its support from the Home Rule cause if
Ireland proves recreant to her obvious duty now.
The estimate of males in Ireland available for mili-
tary service varies from 570,000 to 600,000, and of
this total 105,000 have been contributed since
mobilisation: Ulster, 54,000; Leinster, 12,000 ; Con-
naught, 4000 ; Munster, 16,000; and Dublin, 19,000.
Figured on a population basis the percentages work
out thus: Ulster, 31.8; Leinster (including Dublin),
17.7; Munster, 11.7 ; Connaught, 4.9. It looks as if,
with tragic perverseness, Ireland is going to create
in the current crisis another Calvary for her dearest
aspiration.
William O’Brien, casting about with a vigorous
shillelagh, says: “The disaster is mainly due to
Mr. Redmond’s own failure to secure the Home Rule
settlement by consent, which he might easily have
had as the accompaniment of a united and victorious
recruiting campaign; to the miserable self-contradic-
tions in the attitude of Mr. Dillon and himself in
the first weeks after the rising; and above all, to
their attempts to thrust down the throat of the
country partition-proposals more hateful to all un-
bought Irish sentiment than Castlereagh’s Act of
Union, which, at least, left us a country.” If the
intricacies of the Irish situation continue to tangle
themselves so enthusisastically it will bring to
naught the wit, cunning and statecraft of the chosen ■
leaders, and it will need some power far better fitted,
both by temperament and inclination, for the con-
tinued management of the campaign for Home Rule,
and the unravelling of its complexities, than Liberal-
ism in the United Kingdom. And where, in British
polities to-day, is Home Rule likely to find a better
friend? Liberal adherence to Home Rule has not
in all cases been an uncomplaining devotion; it has
not always been beyond the impertinence of praise or
criticism; but it has been the most vital agency
in advancing the ideals of Nationalist Ireland to
within an ace of realisation.
“Witera” ; This is apropos the remark
made by Defence Minister Pearce some
time ago that “all things being equal, re-
turned soldiers should have preference” in
respect of jobs that might be going in the
Civil Service. After being discharged in
Australia, medically unfit, owing to getting
a bullet in the base of my spine, I travelled
to England with the intention of trying for
something in connection with the Forces —
something that would keep me near to where
things were happening. Being so obviously
a cripple, I found that the doors were shut
when applying at the Anzac Administrative
Headquarters, Horseferry-road; so I wan-
dered around to interview the High Commis-
sioner. After a wait of four weeks I was
given a job in the Pensions Department,
where I found six others employed. With
the exception of one, all were of military
age; and although doing the same work as
myself, i.e., examining pension applications,
all were paid more than I, the one returned
soldier among them. After grafting away
for a couple of months I pointed out that it
was scarcely just that I should be paid so
much less than the others. The answer was:
“The others have been employed by the
Military Authorities as clerks, and came
here from Horseferry-road when the
Egyptian Staff arrived.” I endeavored to
make a point of the fact that I, too, had
been employed by the Military Authorities,
from August, 1914, until February, 1916,
and had been smashed in the service; but
of course that didn’t matter. It was and
still is plainly a disqualification to have
been in the Army. As I am not a near
connection of Tyson’s, I had to dry up
my wail and wait. Next came word of the
Referendum on conscription, and though I
could do no'thing else than vote “Yes,” I
could not help thinking there was a. screw
loose somewhere. Australian money is being
paid out in hundreds here every week to a
large body of young exempted slackers.
There are scores of permanently disabled
Australians who are competent and willing
1 1 do the work in all of the Australian
Departments on this side, and their chance
of doing it Is —Buckley’s.
The poisonous plan adopted for the '‘settle-
ment” of the recent coal strike is having
immediate, effect. All over the country,
agreement or no agreement, workmen are
coming at their employers with demands for
higher wages or fewer hours. The formula
is the same in almost every case: “We. do
not want to injure you. If your costs in-
crease pass it on !” But it all comes in the
end to one man who can’t pass it on—the
producer who has to depend on the world’s
market for his living. The wheat farmer
in Australia has to compete with the wheat-
farmer in Russia; wherefore he can’t get a
farthing a bushel more than the competitive
price even though his own costs have been
forced up sixpence. All over Australia
farmers'are going out of wheat-cultivation;
and the movement will continue, in spite of
all the efforts to put returned soldiers on
the land. Hughes and Judge Edmunds sent
five thousand men back to the mines. At
the same time they drove another nail into
the coffin of five thousand men on the land.
Another beautiful result of our tangled
political system has just been exhibited in
Tasmania. A vessel trading along the coast,
where the- State law applies, ran on the
rocks in broad daylight in calm weather;
and a shipper of sheep, who had been re-
fused permission to get his cargo off the
vessel, claimed damages for its total loss.
Said his Honor Ewing :
I am not so sure that you have a claim for neg-
ligence. If the company had been carrying goods
to the, mainland and issued such a bill of lading it
would have been fined £lOO. Unfortunately the
legislation of Tasmania does not see fit to protect
shippers, and through wilful negligence on the part
of those concerned the company could drown every-
body on board and destroy all cargo, and there is
no remedy. There is a clause here that the com-
pany is not liable for any claim for negligence on
the part of the master. I do not see how, in the
face of this, you can sustain your contention.
Counsel for the gplaintiff arose hurriedly.
“I have gone through the bill of lading
very carefully, and must say that it is
one of the most shocking documents which
has ever come under my notice.” So,
because the Commonwealth law does not
apply, the shipper was not only nonsuited,
but had to pay all costs. That ought to.
mean one more vote for unification, anyway.
♦
Manchester has decided to plant potatoes
in its public parks. As the spuds can’t go
into the ground until next March or April
and won’t be ripe until the late summer of
1917, this can hardly .be taken to signify
any current hunger. What the move, coupled
with some others which have been fore-
shadowed, does appear to mean is that Eng-
land is at last taking as few chances as pos-
sible. If al‘l goes well at the Front, the
potatoes will have a market value, and if all
goes wrong and the German develops new
attacks under sea, there will still be some-
thing to eat. The potato has been filling a
large place in the present war. Germany
appears to live mostly on the skins and
make synthetic rubber or some other explo-
sive out of the pulp ; and references to the
use of the tuber in England have grown
more frequent. It was the spud that for two
and a half centuries enabled Ireland to keep
her landlord fat without completely starving
her own family; and now it looks as if the
humble vegetable might prove the saviour
of Britain. At any rate, the planting of
parks with potatoes makes Britain more self-
contained, which not only helps the war to
a finish but lightens the national problems
that will come with the great silence after
the cannonade. If England had enough
potatoes to go round, she might possibly find
enough chemicals and manufactured articles
also, and the ashleaf kidney growing on the
grave of Cobden might stand for the best
thing left by the war.
In 1915 Sydney pastrycooks got an Arbitra-
tion award fixing wages as low as £2 Bs. per
week for male assistants. Snorting at this
injustice, they went on strike; but the
absence of meat-pies and sundries did not
hit the public hard enough, and the Union
caved in, entering into an agreement to
accept the award and pledging itself not to
make any application for a variation during
its currency. The Union really had some-
thing to complain about, because the lowest
rate was 4s. 6d. under the accepted standard
living wage. £2 12s. 6d., which has since been
raised to £2 14s. This increase of the stan-
dard was lately made the excuse for an appli-
cation to the Court that muffin-men’s wages
should be raised to that pinnacle; but as
there was nothing to be feared from such a
small union, the Court implacably reminded
it of its agreement, and said firmly that its
cake was dough. This sort of thing may he
all very right, but it would look a lot better
if it was not practised merely on the
small union with a genuine grievance, but
was equally applied to the strong organisa-
tions. On the experience of the past three
years our Industrial law isn’t the protection
of the weak, as it ought to be. It is, instead,
a huge bully, which is very stern indeed to
the small concern but a mere sycophant to
the powerful. And one can’t say much
worse about the administration of any law.
*
“5.0.5.” : Of Victoria’s men for the Front
approximately one soldier in five goes through
the V.D. camp at Langwarrin before depart-
ure. These are figures which reflect small
credit on the authorities who might control
the virus-distribution. To take a single
fact, one lady belonging to Mrs. Warren’s
profession has been responsible so far for no
less than S 2 cases at the V.D. camp; and
she is still pursuing her soldier with una-
bated zeal. Particulars like these are care-
fully elicited from the patients by the
military authorities, and records kept; yet it
would almost seem to be a waste of time,
since the State, which controls the source of
infection, seems to be too deeply concerned
about other things to bother about doing this
one. Yet, allowing six weeks at least, under
present treatment, before a recruit is fit to
return to the ranks, it will be seen how enor-
mous is the State’s responsibility in the
matter of retarding reinforcements.
The Two Machines.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Randolph Bedford makes ail end-of-the-
year audit—
This is an attempt to regard the warring political
parties dispassionately and as if the writer had no
politics; to look at parties as a geologist might
look at rocks for their differentiation. ,
The Liberal machine, provided with ample money
and almost destitute of enthusiasm, is like a steam-
less engine—a machine without drawing force. It
believes in abstracts, but without emotion; and in
concrete matters it begins well but fails to last the
distance.
Years ago as a Labor candidate for the House of
Representatives I found the power behind the Labor
machine —the thousands of nameless devotees who
worked for nothing, paid but by their own enthusi-
asm ; believing- in the ideals of Labor as a Turk
believes in Islam or an Early Christian believed in
the imminence of the Second Advent. It was the
spirit that made the Crusades, discovered continents
that were before but the wild surmises of a maniac ;
the spirit that made Revolutionary France, menaced
by the coalesced kings of Europe and the dynasties
of the woi'ld, repel musketeers with pikes, and march
to victory without boots, bloody-footed in their frail
coverings of straw. It was the soul in the machine
that made the machine; that, despite all the little
tyrannies of Jacks-in-office and the crudities of many
a leader, still keeps it in working order and inde-
pendent of any individual who dies or recants or
chooses to fall helpless by tine way.
On my. committee were all sorts —clerks, timber-
rtien, slaughtermen, grocers, small tradesmen of
thriving businesses. They had that talent for organ-
ising the best in every man which now we reluc-
tantly seek for in time of war. The man who could
paint signs bought his own paint and calico as often
as not and produced streamers of “Vote for Labor” at
his own cost; a tinsmith cut a stencil with a similar
legend, and after his own work of the day stayed up
half the night making the street-asphalt vocal with
his own hopes. Women workers left the children of
many families with one neighbor, cut the electorate
into sections of 50 houses, and worked each her
section to a standstill. And there was an old man
who could do nothing but ring a bell to advertise
meetings, and did so ring it that it became a habit
not easily suspended. I was defeated; but the man
who came three years later polled 17,000 votes at a
personal expenditure of £13. And he did it without
a newspaper to help ; all the journalism was on the
other side. Labor won because of efficient organisa-
tion, motored by a spirit that money cannot buy.
What man can imagine the Labor party making
tlie grossly ridiculous error of , the Liberals who
coalesced with the wreckage of the Holmanites
merely to gain another year of dishonorable life?
The Liberals had their enemies separated ; they had
as big-gun ammunition for an election all the
muddling of the Holman Government — the crazy
finance ; the criminal lunacy of the Norton
Griffiths agreement ; the wild extravagance of the
Holman borrowings ; the day-labor system made im-
possible by the forcing of supervisors and gangers
inside the unions ; the imbecile purchases of wheat,
oak, butter and chaff by Mr. Hall, and the losses
on the re-sale thereof. Here was sufficient to damn
any party, and even the Liberals saw it, fought with
it, made charges which gave work to a Royal Com-
mission and a Supreme Court; stated daily at the
top of its voice its disgust and contempt for the
men and the methods ; thanked God devoutly that it
was not as other men; coalesced with a Progressive
party which was to bring back" honest finance, honor-
able economy and pure government to the State.
The Liberal offsider, the Progressive party, too,
stumped the country in a campaign for its jdeals,
which were all that the Holman Government’s prac-
tice was not. And then at the first breath of a
danger that was probably non-existent, the very men
who had denounced the shocking Holman Government
joined them to the end of making such queer bed-
fellows as Hall and Fitzpatrick, Holman and
Fuller, Graham and James —Liberalism’s ammuni-
tion fired off before the battle, leaving them for
action but mere empty abuse of the -official Labor
party which will not cause the Labor machine to lose
one revolution or slip a cog.
For Liberalism to think that abuse can win a vote
is as ridiculous as applying for divorce after the con-
donation of adultery. And Liberalism has condoned
all—-waste, ruinous expenditure on public works, the
farces of the wheat, oats, chaff and butter deals, the
JfoifToN GUifpiths scandal, and the departmental
slackness that made the petrol charges possible. Per-
haps tlie Liberals signed away their future in pity for
theit stricken opponents; On the French principle
that to understand all is to forgive all. In this
case the Liberals understood their desire for office so
well that they were ready to forgive everything.
There is nothing Machiavellian about the Labor
machine; it is helped so much by the mistakes of
Liberalism that Liberalism defeats itself. In this
case it would appear that Liberalism has by its own
stupidity again been outwitted, outfought and out-
sailed. Anew party will grow, but it will take 15
years to organise to efficiency, and its efficiency de-
pends mostly on enthusiasm and belief.


Solving the Problem of Insurance.
, , . i. 4.1, £ Vi, n incnrinv pvods He knows from bitter experience the disastrous effects of fire and hail on
SsTear’s°labo e r. Vnl? th"e improvident gambler and the hopelessly ignorant trust to luck nowadays. A more, difficult matter until recently, however, has
Best Insurance Co. for the Farmer to Place His Insurances?
Which is the
That problem was solved for the Farmer with the foundation of
Warmers & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A u i!l?ii a
THE FARMERS’ INSURANCE CO.
A co-operative company owned by the farmer
and controlled entirely in his interests.
CO-OPERATE AND BECOME A SHAREHOLDER. Over a thousand Farmers have already taken shares.
INSURE IN YOUR OWN COMPANY, and participate in the profits your business creates.
On the first year’s operations a dividend of SIX PER CENT was paid to Shaiehol
Fullest particulars gladly
sullied on application.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Branches in Queensland, Victoria 8 Siuth Australia.
The Year of War Ends in Words.
It was mostly a war of language last week,
and when Woodrow Wilson joined in there
was more noise than if all the munitions in
Europe had expired in one loud, simultaneous
bang. And as Wilson had to start explain-
ing himself, and his explanations made
everybody concerned more irascible than he
was previously, war began to look a
fairly placid thing by comparison with
peace. Why there should be all this heat
about another Note from Wilson is not ex-
plained by the adjectives that have been
thrown at the document. After all, it merely
illustrated what was perfectly well known
already—that he is a well-meaning peda-
gogue "with about as much tact as a stranded
whale. Meanwhile, the first phase of the peace
negotiations has been ended by Lloyd
George. Stripped of what was inevitable,
his speech in reply to the German Chancel-
lor amounts to a repudiation of the pro-
posal to discuss terms of peace which have
not been formulated, and an invitation to
the German to come down to bedrock and
say exactly what he wants to talk about.
How badly the German wants to knock off is
a mystery, but we can be certain that in this
conflict the discussion of peace will not be
postponed by the German or anyone else
until the moment of the last gasp. The
acceptance of definite terms insisted on by
the other side may be, but there is yet. no
evidence that either party is ready to swal-
low any leeks. Instead, the only olive
branches that are hanging round look like
clubs. And it is very likely that a smash
from one of them would so far do the Hun
more good than having a yarn with him
about knocking off. But of the deeper cur-
rents that are at work in this business, the
outside world knows little more than it did
about those which plunged the world into all
this trouble.
According to Millen,' talking in the
Senate, a worker at the Lithgow Small Arms
factory was recently twice assaulted by
fellow-employees because he would not “go
slow.” The offenders were each time fined
at the local police court, but they were still
retained at the factory. In reply Pearce
said that if the manager had dismissed them
the Government would have supported him.
Probably ; but the inference is that as they
weren’t dismissed none of the parties, ex-
cept the man who was assaulted, regard the
go-slow policy as of enough consequence to
make a fuss about.
Quiet little Brighton, where the long
Adelaide sea-beach merges into cliff, has had
two mysterious drowning cases in quick
succession. First, J. H. Luxmoore’s body
was found in the sea; he had lost his wife
•just before, and is supposed not to have
cared to survive her. The latest case is
that of John Boneh, sharebroker, whose
clothes were found on the beach one hot
day last week, and his body in the water
next morning. Aged 60, Itoach was one of
the senior members of the Stock Exchange
of Adelaide and a noted after-dinner
speaker.
Col. Price Weir gets the new post of
Public Service Commissioner for S. Aus.
He has come back after two years of war,
having commanded the 10th in Gallipoli,
and worked his way on as far as Pozierts.
The new Act begins with the new year, and
the new post has control of promotions in
the Civil Service, very much on Common-
wealth lines. In fact. S. Aus. claims to
have taken advantage of later experience to
improve slightly on the Commonwealth sys-
tem. But the Commissioner gets only £BOO
a year. Weir is 50, and has been in the
Land and Survey Department of his State
since he was 14.
Peace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
‘Teace, peace,” in dulcet tones he cries,
Who launched the bolts of wrath.
And was it peace the Belgian knew
Who dared to cross his path?
Were slaughtered babes and ravished maids,
And honest burghers’ gore
The symbols of the peace he wants
That leaves him as before—
To build his ships and cast his guns
And set his plans of hate
Until his mad ambition dooms
More millions to their fate?
By ruined town and trampled field,
By blood of millions slain,
We swear no more the world shall feel
That blood-stained hand again!
Fight on, O Hohenzollern, fight,
You and your cursed tribe,
Till caught and caged like beast of prey,
You pay for those who died ;
The men you’ve slain, the homes you’ve
wrecked,
The lands you’ve soaked with gore—
To you the only peace we’ll grant
Is peace for evermore !
N.S.W.
QUIDAM.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cinema Star’’
Criterion “The House of Glass’’'
Royal “Just a Girl”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli Mel ntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Dandies
White City Various Shows
Wirths’ Hippodrome .... “A Daughter of the Gods’
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING W’EEK.
Her Majesty’s “The House that Jack Built’
Royal “Damaged Goods”
King’s “the W’hite Slave Traffic”
Princess’s “Richard III.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Auditorium “Where Are My Children?’
-%•
“The Bunyip”-—the all-Australian panto.
-—duly aros'e at the Opera House, Sydney,
and looked its fairy godfathers, the Fullers,
squarely in the eye. The “hook” doesn’t
get the help it needs from the principals,
and the principals have fair ground for a
counter-claim against the book, which is
by Ella Airlie in collaboration with Nat
Phillips. As Phillips is also the producer
and Miss Airlie the musical directress of the
mostly-feminine orchestra, it is fair to
assume that the script got considerate treat-
ment when being cut to requirements. There
is a novelty in a female dame, but it doesn’t
work out well in this instance. The conso-
lation about the usual male “dame” is that
no woman could ever be like him. There
is an' agreeable" mellowness in the bonnet-
string humor of the best specialists in this
curious line that no born woman can hope
to equal—certainly no actress with a shrill
scolding voice. Daisy Merritt adds to that
handicap madly exaggerated costunjes that
amaze more than they amuse. Pearl Ladd,
as Fairy Princess Wattle Blossom, tempo-
rarily turned into a froglike Bunyip by the
evil enchantment of the Chief Gnome —a
Will-o’-the-Wisp-like character —has a good
deal of gracious wand-waving to do, and
round her surge various young women in
tights, very stagey station people, _ a pig-
tailed Chinaman who sings that he is going
back to his “honey” and a comic Jew all
the way from New York. Then there is a
pretty female swaggie in brown velveteen
breeches, and a savage, clay-daubed abori-
ginal who wails about his “Nulla-Nulla,”
seems greatly troubled about his color-color,
and makes some regretful reference in rag-
time to “another lovesick black.” The
spirit of Yankee ragtime seems to have
“THE CINEMA STAR,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Leslie Holland “directing ” a film, and Clyde
Cook as “The Rolling Stone.”
waved its paws over a lot of the, music, but
one little lilt called “Bunyip (well sung
bv Belle Pollard) should cling to the ear
of the crowd. The Le Grohs and the Man-
churians provide a couple of first-rate speci-
als turns, and the ballets arranged by Dot
O’Dea and Rosie Bowen are cheerful breaks.
The most Australian thing in the show is
Bellora’s imitations of Australian birds and
animals in front of an Australian cloth.
In the second act there is an expensive bush-
fire effect that would please the 1.W.W.,
and the wattle-blossom finale of the first act
is well contrived.
* * * *
With luck “The Cinema Star” shouldn’t'
wane at Svdney Majesty’s until the Raster
Cow and the J.C.W. Principal Boy arrive
together. It is well mounted, rarely runs
to talk, and the chorus people have so many
clothes to wear that they are kept busy
changing all the evening. The plot could be
imagined by any small boy and the dialogue
written by a junior flapper; but there is
the gratifying feeling that no expense has
been spared and that everyone concerned is
working overtime for the fun of the thing.
The second act flowers twice —first in
a quaint and striking black-and-white
Pierrette number, and secondly in a__ Hono-
lulu duet and chorus. There are 2o items
on the songandance list, and though none
of them are as remembersome as half a
dozen on the “Sp Long, Letty” programme
they go with a swing—all bar one. Minnie
Love with “A Broken Doll” has the record
slow sob-song, and with the help of a
chorus wrings the last tear out of a sac-
“JUST A GIRL,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Ned Duggan as Miner Sandy, and Fred
Macdonald as Taffy of Lambing Flat.
charine factory-made melody. The most
interesting item is the duet-dance episode
“Stop Thief” in the third act. That is by
May Baird and Leslie Holland; composer,
Andrew MacCunn.
* * * *
Florence Young, as Louise (“The Film
Princess”), chirps as clearly and confidently
as ever and looks as bright as her own dia-
monds. Some 18-carat frocks help the well-
established illusion that she is only making
her debut. Ethel Cadman wears her dresses
without distinction and sings correctly in
the disinterested manner of the concert
vocalist. Nellie Payne smiles and looks
decorative, and Mrs. George Lauri is admir-
able in a humorous flower-seller study in
the last act. Phil Smith, as the elderly
moralist who is decoyed into a sensational
film, is most successful when he is being
thrown about like a straw man by Holland,
the stuttering and infuriated stage manager.
Clyde Cook as the porter is a good dancing
comedian who can do amusing comedy falls;
his droopv, ’ drinky moustache makes the
third of that'brand seen on comedians in
Sydney within the last few months. Reg
Roberts is again a languid, singing, musical-
comedy lover threatened with middle-age.
** * *
“Peg o’ the Curls” is back once more at
Sydney Palace. One weakness of the cast
has been partially improved by A. L.
Pearce, who plays Christian Brent rather
better than his predecessor —which was
easy. Beatrice Yaldwin, as icy and mono-
syllabic as ever, is now a rather plumper
and more pleasing icicle. Cecil Brooking s
impersonation of the delightfully-idiotic bro-
ther is just the same bit of clever character-
isation ; and Gerald Henson makes an excel-
lent hero. The two thunderstorms are still
in good working order, though J. Hartley
Manners is either a poor dramatist to re-
quire two thunderstorms for one play or he
has got a political pull with the meteorologi-
cal department, and can have as many as he
likes. Peg’s infectious Irish laugh and her
quotations from her father will be on the
market till further notice.
** * *
When The Bulletin met “Just a Girl”
at Melbourne King’s last June, it diagnosed
it as a humorous bit of Family ’Erald
literature. The show, with none of its
brands altered, is now at Sydney Royal
demonstrating to the country holiday-makers
how any bush girl can get into the best
English society if she has only £2,000,000 in
her stocking besides a good climbing leg.
Esmeralda is the name of the girl with the
loaded hosiery, and when she goes to London
a lord who is much more presentable than
his cheques falls in love with her golden calf.
She flies back to Westralia on her wedding
morning when she finds out that she is not
loved for herself alone. But she generously
leaves behind her a marriage settlement of
£1,000,000, and all is over until the next
act, when the busted lord tells her that he
has sold all his estates in order to pay back
the £1,000,000 —or words to that effect.
Bert Bailey’s co. of honest Selectors do
their best with the quaintly absurd thing,
and the pintpot of melody is filled to the
brim.
Frank Harvey will give tlc,^fc r .
wife-scaring demonstrations at Sydney C
tcrion on Friday night, when The Land ol
Promise” will be blotted off the map.
House of Glass” goes up on Saturday,
seems a bad time to build it with the Hud
in charge of Belgium and exports forbidden;
Sydney Tivoli, where "The Passing
Show” passes, has acquired Belle Oliver a
contralto who is worth listening to. (Jh
praise is louder than it looks in these days
when almost every performer puts up a bluff
that he or she can sing. A system f licens
ing will have to be adopted if the fraud
grows more popular.) Otherwise Sydney
James and his Strollers are offering an in-
teresting programme, and some of the
recruits ore worth their limelight.
The new Williamson annual loses no time
in stating a reason why it is called Ihe
House that Jack Built.” A brigade of pe-
cocious nippers and joyous young girleons
sit on forms confronting a flat and flinty
domicile and sing of the various animals and
persons associated with Jacks House m nai
serv rhyme. Meanwhile pictures of those
fabulous objects, drawn by Hop's hnaci-
studv 11., drop into view on flap-doors and the
Prologue ends in a further burst of melody.
As a key to subsequent proceedings it hardly
counts, though it serves to introduce an
alleged Cow with a Crumpled Horn, and the
youngsters mostly reappear m various out-
fits in a series of revue numbers, lhe snow
has a picturesque rivulet of poetic senti-
mentalism running through a meadow ol
revue. A Princess in disguise (Gretchen
Yates) comes along and engages herself as
lady-help on a farm, which is in a hopeless
state of insolvency until the Fairy Queen
takes the principal boy farm-hand (Hilda
Quiver) under her protection. During We
first act the she-boy hero is thwarted by a
malignant Prince Kegent lady and a Demon
who is clothed in motley and billed as the
Lord of Misrule. Under their direction the
Demon of Despair (Charles Albert) dan■•e»
attendance on Fairy Sunbeam (Maggie
Dickinson) and things are mixed with sad-
ness. Then the gallant she-boy discovers a
magic casket in the woodland haunt of the
ballet and becomes informally betrothed to
the royal dairymaid who takes over the cares
of government from the euchred Regent. The
rest is revue and frank irrelevancy. Gener-
ally speaking the Williamsonian annual is a
success in both of its moods. Compared with
last year’s production it was brilliantly
entertaining-even at the first performance,
and gave promise of growing more humorous
as the weeks roll on to Easter.
* * * *
Some of the scenic effects by Coleman
notably the Tulip Farm and the following
backgrounds for the ballet—arequite charm-
ing. Also the dresses are lavishy laid on,
and the girls and kiddies inside them reflect
credit on the land that gave them birth. Aiiy
young members of the chorus who have a
solo verse to sing—and none of the prin-
cipals save Amy Murphy as Fairy Queen
are entirely unsupported in their warble—‘do
it very well. This half-bred panto, is per-
haps stronger in massed talent than any of
its predecessors. Moreover, it has a full
allowance of genuine comedy and very little
of mere knockabout business. W. Fullbrook,
who plays a policeman and various other
people,, is a distinctly clever character actor.
In the item “Building a Chicken House he
makes a convincing old idiot. Harry Kox-
bury, as Sammy, is droll in a different style;
Langford, another newcomer, has at least an
elongated figure to recommend him; and
Stigant, the Dame of two years ago, conies
to light again as good as new or better.
Too many of the annual “dames” are cast
in the pessimistic mould, but Stigant’s cari-
cature of woman at her worst is. a light-
hearted extravagance. Miss Guiver, the
Principal Boy, has every qualification except
an incisive tone, and that is not badly missed
at a time when none of the latest panto, dit-
ties have much snap in them. Her mellow
voice doesn’t carry well enough to be called
fetching. Neither is Miss Yates, as the
principal girl, a very forcible songstress. Her
strong points are a slim and graceful, figure,
a dimpled smile with other facial fittings in
sw r eet accord, and a sense of humor. There
is a long time ahead for passing remarks on
“The House that Jack Built.” This notice
has already emphasised the fact that tne
result is something more than satisfactory,
and better than good enough.
The Christmas production at. Melbourne
Princess’s is “Richard III.” and its message
of war on earth, likewise illwill toward men.
is received with warm approval. There are
various reasons why Allan Wilkie’s picture
of Dick should be. the most popular in his
series of classic identities. -One of them
is that the character strikes everybody on
the same mental spot. It has the modern
Hun quality of thoroughness. The public
loves the good, earnest, pushful villain; he
excites open execration for his sins,
together with secret admiration- for his
moral audacity. Next to the Mephisto of


h
HENKES’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonio.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
ĥ
w
cblf
ms
;• : fa
&
429,120,000 Acres in Queensland
AND ONLY 1,060,000 ACRES UNDER CULTIVATION.
Fill in this Coupon below stating the Class of Land in which you
are interested and full particulars will come to yon by return Mail.
NAME ADDRESS
CLASS OF LAND -
To Director, Intelligence a Tourist Bureau, Brisbane, Q.
PEAPES &C? LT?
An Improved White Canvas Shoe
For general wear, yachting - and beach use the tennis
shoe without heels is not quite comfortable. This
new style with full rubber heel is much better for
walking. The heel is solid white rubber and will
wear well. The rubber soles have a deep corrugation
and will take a good “grip” on grass, etc.
It is a superior make throughout—a typical Peapes’
model.
We pay postaye.
Please
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, Sydney.
r
full
'rubber
heel
“Faust” the famous Duke of Gloucester is
the most majestic evil-doer in poetic litera-
ture. Pie is a King of Crime; he wears a
jewelled crown of iniquity and a shining
breastplate of frightfulness, and Ins frown
spells sudden death. Wilkie produces the
version of “Richard III.” that Colley Cibbei
adapted- from Shakspeare and furnished
with a few ideas of his own. Starting with
a bit from the tail end of “Henry A 1.,
Cibber’s version makes the name-part easier
for the actor than even Shakspeare s did. it
rubs Richard’s wickedness in, so to -speak.
Which really means that this play is a trifle
more melodramatic than the Bard s undoc-
tored work; therefore managers naturally
prefer it. G. C. Miln of yore, the brainy but
barnstormy ex-parson from America, played
the Cibberised Gloucester, on the ground
that it shows him as an actual assassin, and
that when an audience is out for blood the
want should be supplied. The name-part and
the spectacular effects represent a full two-
thirds of the entertainment, whichever ver-
sion is produced ; so it may be said at once
that Wilkie’s cute and artistic staging of the
play is everything that was expected, and
more besides.
* * * *
The actor for his part is mostly as admir-
able as his make-up. He has one or two
tired moments when he seems to be repeat-
ing his lines from memory instead of utter-
ing them from a creative brain; but at his
best he is convincing, strong, magnetic. The
impersonation has a bite in it. It was born
“THE PASSING SHOW,” AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Ballet of old gentlemen games, Desmond,
Le Brun and Graystone.
with teeth. Pictorially, Wilkie is quite as
effective as the oft-talked-of Barry Sullivan.
Personally he gives a more refined treatment
of the subject. He presents a happy medium
between the courtly, nervous Richard of
Henry Irving and the rough, declamatory
yulgarian of Sullivan, as this writer remem-
bers them. Like Irving, he is specially artis--
tic in his scene with Lady Anne, and his
manner of kissing the widow’s finger-tips
over the coffin of the late King Henry is a
fine climax to an amazing mash. With the
unobtrusive assistance of the lady he real-
ises the bare possibility of such a wooing.
Another fine piece of acting is his way of
turning dog on Buckingham; which suggests
that the natural brutality of the man has
overmastered the hypocrite in him. In the
first flush of monarchical power he is suffer-
ing from swelled head. Vivian Edwards
would be a likeable Buckingham if he put
more ducal dignity into his deportment and
speech; and Miss Hunter Watts as Anne
would do well to talk in subdued accents all
the time. Hers is a weak and worn voice
that needs tender usage. Fred Kehoe, on
the other hand, should put more hysterical
force into his railing at Richard. His bloodless
performance of Henry VI. is notable only
for its waste of opportunities. Miss Lorna
Forbes scores a valuable success as the tear-
ful Elizabeth, and Miss Leigh is passable as
the old Duchess. Whilst both the young
Princes speak their lines feelingly, one of
them, Dorothy Seacombe, is conspicuously
clever. All the same, their infantile distress
has no boyish character in it. They are just
girls dressed as brothers. Walter Hunt
makes a brisk, outspoken Richmond and a
respectable combatant in the last scene. Cos
grove is a slow, colorless Lord Stanley ; and
Dore Patey, Varna, Landor, Plinge and
Bellbridge speak up when required.
At Melbourne King’s the artless simplicity
of “The White Slave Traffic” is appealing to
all earnest followers of droll bellowdrama.
The Black Prince, who prowls around Manly
looking for victims,-, is still coming to a
violent end at the hands of Jim the Detec-
tive, whilst the other rescuer disposes of the
man with ice in his veins. Miss Kate
Howarde’s home-made play is often as good
as a pantomime in one sense of the word,
so the Christmas season should at least
carry it into a third week. Many a less
absurd piece of goods has been more tire-
some to the present writer.
“Damaged Goods” is expected to run until
January 5 at Melbourne Royal. Apparently
the city’s thirst for knowledge cannot be
satisfied before that date. Meantime the
audiences continue to have a large sprinkling
of lads and flappers who mostly listen to Dr.
Scanlan’s discourse with approving solemnity.
Some, however, venture a giggle here and
there, as if Brieux were guilty of attempting
a bit of comic relief.
A burlesque entitled “On Tour” was the
main suit of the St. Kilda (Vic.) Dandies
when The Bulletin last looked in on
their show. The piece, which pretended to
depict the trials of travelling theatricals,
brought out the finer side of J. Brennan’s
humor, and gave Messrs. Agnew, Campbell
and de Robeck a better opportunity to throw
themselves about. Marshall Lawrence, Ford
Waltham and the ladies made noises,
musical or the reverse as the situation de-
manded, whilst the band under the command
of maestro Speirs supplied the usual unob-
trusive support. In the first part the cus-
tomary concert was indulged in, and it only
needed a finale of tea and trifle to make this
bit of the entertainment feel like a polite
social evening at Geelong.
“Where Are My Children?” at -Melbourne
Auditorium, continues to enlighten tne igno-
rant on the source of some fashionable doc-
tors’ incomes. Dr. Malfit, the wittily-named
medico in the picture, evidently has a con-
siderable practice, and collects a heap of
dallahs from the creme de la creme of Noo
Yark sassiety. Apparently, howevpr, his
long record of successes makes him care-
less, for when he attends to a comparatively
humble patient he makes a mess of things
and celebrates the tragedy with 15 years’
hard labor. It is a terrible finish for the
eminent Malfit, and suggests once more that
even Daniel might have met with a nasty
accident if he had made a habit of having
breakfast in the lions’ den.
The headliner on Hoyt’s Christmas pro-
gramme in Melbourne is “The Lure of
Heart’s Desire,” a Metro film founded on
“The Spell of the Yukon.” written by the
Canadian poet Robert W. Service. Edmund
Breeze is the handsome apology for the out-
back tornado who is supposed to figure as
hero in this production. Another of Hoyt's
Christmas offerings is “The Forbidden Ad-
venture,” starring the much-advertised
Louise Glaum. Louise is known far and
wide as a vampire specialist, but she is also
a daring and original frocker who dresses
like the season after next.
The Follies continue their mild and aim-
less riot at Melbourne Tivoli. The well-
dressed show has been improved in tone
since this paper last saw it, but several
items are still wanting in finish, and much
of the business is too foolish for words. The
greatest shortcomings are found among the
comedians who do the old familiar fallabout
stunts, but, with the exception of Weems,
seem incapable of higher flights of humor.
Cannot scores best as a serious singer; as a
comic prattler he can be rarely forgiven.
His masterpiece of drollery is a long and
confused statement in stage Scotch, which
is one of the most trying features of a
rather dull programme.
With the Royal clinging persistently to
pictures, the Tivoli to Andersonian melo-
drama, and the Majestic to variety, there is
a gap in Adelaide for the dramatic
show; and the little King’s—empty for
several months —is having a dash at filling
that gap. Carroll and Beaumont Smith have
jumped in with two good Australian shows
—“Seven Little Australians,” not previ-
ously seen in Adelaide, every afternoon, and
Lawson’s billy-boiling every evening. Even
the Dandies at Austral Gardens now give
(their idea of' Bush life. Anderson, at the
Tivoli, has revived the good old “Power and
Glory” for Christmas. Pictures are chiefly
remarkable at the Royal for strength, at
West’s for fun, at Wondergraph, Pav. and
Empire for sentiment. Every one of the
houses already named, with the Central
aaued, joins in the daily “Important” adver-
tisement calling on the public to take no
notice of any unauthorised advt. The new
Grand picture theatre, however, seems to
have started to break dov.m the boycott of
the Advertiser, and publishes its attrac-
tions in that widely-read paper.
Died, aged 70, Dr. Dunne, first R.C.
Bishop of Wilcannia. But he had scarcely
unpacked his mitre and his cope before the
rabbits ate the bottom out of Wilcannia, and
then he moved on to Broken Hill, where the
cathedral has camped for nearly 30 years.
Dr. Dunne, who had previously been admin-
istrator of the Goulburn diocese, was a
kindly old gentleman: he had broad sympa-
thies. and to the end of his days regretted
that he saw a joke only with great difficulty.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Toe Twiddler”: “Glen H.” (B. 7/12/’l6)
is the usual supercilious theatre critic. I
am no theorist or idealist, but merely one
with practical experience. In vaudeville it
is the piffle that interests. The direct act
(acrobatics especially) belongs to the circus
tent in the. estimation of most patrons; but
combine it with patter or piffle and they’ll
applaud it as a great vaudeville turn. In
the early ’9o’s, under Rickards’s manage-
ment, my brother and I were billed in “a
startling bicycle aerial trapeze act.” It
must have been a • startler, for at the end
of the first week newspaper critics, whilst
lauding the turns, implored the City Coun-
cil to compel us to use a net for the protec-
tion of ourselves and the stallites below,
who, at each performance, huddled to either
side. We were compelled to order a net,
and had to postpone the act until it was
made—at a cost to us of £35. Whilst wait-
ing we induced Rickards to let us
introduce our No. 2 turn under another
name. We thus became knockabout danc-
ing comedians. I had been an expert
from childhood, and my brother rapidly
learnt the tricks. We knew that it
would do no good showing direct as
dancers, so we clothed it with the piffle that
“Glen H.” objects to. It “went” and paid so
well that we cancelled our trapeze contract
and never used that act again. I’ve seen
hundreds of turns since,, and all have to
resort to the same trick. It’s a pity, I know,
but it’s the pay that talks loudest and the
disapproval of all the “Glen H.’s” won’t
reform the business.
“Dry Shave” : How the mob does flock to
the film with the suggestive title! ' The Un-
born”—ruled out in Sydney—is drawing six
full houses a day in Brisbane. “The Un-
born” is mostly seduction, abortion and
murder. Sobs are called for, but giggles
from flappers are all that happen. The
movie showmen who haven’t got it are on
tenterhooks lest Brother Stiggins should
wake up and demand a censor who has the
use of his eyes.
“Ho”: What sort of a mole is “Mid-
channel,” who informs us (B. 7/12/T6)
that so far as Australian drama is con-
cerned “we haven’t had a single scene laid
in Sydney or Melbourne or their surround-
ings”? Australian plays, the principal scenes
of which are laid in one of the cities, include
Temple Harrison’s “The Winning Ticket,”
Dyson’s “Fact’ry ’Ands,” Mularkey’s “For
Homestead and Honor,” Esson’s “The Time
Is Not Yet Ripe,” “The Sacred Place” and
“The Woman Tamer,” May Wilkinson’s
“THE WHITE SLAVE TRAFFIC” AT
MELBOURNE.
KING’S.
Elton Black as
Billy Briar.
Altross, the man
with ice in his veins.
“Whither?” Buchanan’s “The Image
Breaker” and “The Sacred Flame,” “Billy”
Moore’s “The- Tea-room Girl,” Oliphant’s
“The Superior Race,” and Arthur Adams's
“Mrs. Pretty and the Premier.” Also about
half the happenings in “The Waybacks,”
which was seen in Sydney and Melbourne
only a few months ago, were laid in Sydney.
And there are others.
Claude Grahame-White, the English avia-
tor, who has done some startling things, was
married in London the other day to Ethel
Levey, the Amurkan revue actress who has
some personal distinction, but has had more
thrust upon her by the large salarv she re-
ceives as a ragtime and tango specialist.
One can hardly picture Madge Titheradge
as principal boy in this year’s Drury Lane
panto. Nothing that she did in Australia
suggested that she w r ould shine as the in-
credible son of a spurious dame, or even
as a prince in scant clothing. But se’em-
ingly Madge has been engaged for the job
that Nellie Stewart undertook in the* dear,
dead days of not so long ago.
In the latest Beecham performance of
“Samson and Delilah” the name parts are
taken by Fred Blarney, who sang here in
“Butterfly” with Bel Sorel and Amy
Castles, and Edna Thornton, longtime of
the Quinlan Co. Blarney is certainly of
Samsonic stature in comparison with little
Edna, but he will never present an ideal
strong man. His embonpoint is apt to
wobble when he walks rapidly. If he were
to fall violently on the Philistines he would
bounce.
“0.K.”: Seeing that the late Marshall
Hall was a notoriously pro-German influ-
ence in Melbourne in days when he shouted
the philosophy of Nietzsche over restaurant
tables and scoffed at every product of
Britain, from its music to its muffins, com-
mon-sense suggests that the Conservatorium
teachers who are following in his tracks
should go a little out of their way to seem
as non-Germanised as possible. There are
other schools of music than the Teutonic, but
the followers of Marshall Hall are reluctant
to admit it. When Fritz Hart, director of
the Albert-street Conservatorium, wanted to
show off his star pupils in an unfamiliar
opera, he selected “Iphigenia in Aulis,” by
the late lamented Gliick, of Germany. Why
go to Germany for an obsolete old thing
when he might have revived, say, a charming
French work like “The Hermit’s Bell”?
“H. 0.”: It is always very beautiful to
note the forgiveness extended in melodrama
to a sinner who repenteth. In “The White
Slave Traffic,” now been carried on at Mel-
bourne King’s, the nice young man in the
last act marries a professional procuress who
only a few weeks previously had decoyed his
sister to the seraglio of a nigger potentate.
Of course the lady had repented of her evil
ways, but the young man’s good-nature seems
a trifle overdone.
“Private Boxer”: I did not assume, as
“Stargazer” (B. 7/12/’IG) appears to
imagine, that those who have adapted Aus-
tralian stories for the stage are pastmasters
in stage-craft. My suggestion was—and is
—that the original authors could make a
better job of it if they paid more attention
to technique. But the very word is anathema
to the despondent “Stargazer” and his bat-
racker “R. 8.” The former sniffs and men-
tions “cant”; the latter’s opinion is that
“stage technique should be classed with the
exploded superstitions.” Yet both seemingly
agree that the position of the Australian
playwright is hopeless. I prefer to think
that the native writer is clever enough to
overcome obstacles if he will but take more
time and trouble over his work.
“Ibsenshaw”: The British dramatists’
knowledge of Australia is not so extensive
as peculiar. A “psychical melodrama” in
one act by Zangwill was recently topping
the bill at the London Palladium. Title:
“The Moment Before.” A grey-haired duch-
ess noted for good deeds is stricken with
death while conversing with a bishop. In
the moment before dissolution the black epi-
sode in the lady’s past is lived over again
and shown on the stage. The scene is a
“gold-seeker’s” hut in North Queensland.
The boss’s name is plain John. John’s
missus is looking after the house, John being
away “seeking,” assisted by Ooralee, an abo.
Presently Harold, a stockman of the Never
Never Land, turns up and proceeds to make
passionate love to Mrs. John. The scene
is interrupted by John, who has rushed back
home to tell his missus that he has “struck
it rich.” The two men arrange to fight a
revolver duel, and while it is in progress the
lady takes a hand and shoots her John
dead. Her lover thereupon shoots the wit-
ness Ooralee. and the pair fly to England,
where Harold inherits a dukedom. Zangwill
says he will write some more Of these triie-
to-life one-acters if the first is successful. It
sounds almost like a blackmailing threat.
{Continued on page 26.)
The dispute as to whether the pleasantry
known as “crucifixion” or “spreadeagling”
is still known to the British Army was
cleared up last week. The subject somehow
got into the House of Commons just as
The Bulletin’s “Old Soldier” and various
newer ones were telling each other that
they didn’t know what they were talking
about. every General, it was
explained, had reported against the abolition
of this method of. converting a man to
rectitude by tricing him up to a gun-waggon
wheel in the shape of a letter X. But you
shouldn’t call it “crucifixion,” it was added.
Call it “No. 1 field punishment” and it
won’t smell as rank. But call it what you
will, if it is like every other sort of cor-
poral punishment it is bad because it is a
class punishment. There are rich rogues
and blackguards; but if ever a rich rogue
and blackguard was flogged by the Law
The Bulletin hasn’t heard of it.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
IF FOOD DISAGREES DRINK HOT
WATER.
When food lies like lead in the stomach,
and you have that uncomfortable, distended
feeling, it is because of insufficient blood
supply to the stomach, combined with acid
and food fermentation. In such cases try
the plan now followed in many hospitals
and advised by eminent specialists of taking
half a teaspoonful of bisurated. magnesia in
half a glass of water as hot as you can
comfortably drink it. The hot water draws
the blood to the stomach, and the bisurated
magnesia, as any physician or chemist can
tell you, instantly neutralises the acid and
stops the food fermentation. Try this
simple plan and you will be astonished at
the immediate feeling of relief and com-
fort that always follows the restoration
of the normal process of digestion. But be
sure you ask the chemist very distinctly for
bisurated magnesia, thus avoiding confusion
with the sulphates, oxides and citrates or
bismuth and magnesia mixtures which are
often unsuitable. Soldiers at the front and
travellers who are frequently obliged to take
hasty meals poorly prepared should always
take two or three five-grain tablets of
bisurated magnesia after meals to prevent
fermentation and neutralise the acid. — Advt.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon 2/6
a la carte luncheon, from 1/6
Table d’hote dinner . 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6.
Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
BAD BUSINESS.
CUPIN: “Hang the war! Another shaft
wasted! Every second chap I hit is
some fellow just off to'the Front.”
Billjim was a bit “squiffy” and when his
blanket roll fell over his head as he stooped
to pick up his hat, he got wild. “Aw.
the ——- blankets,” he said; “this is the
last war I’ll go to!”
Nothing can disturb Staff Headquarters.
It knows its job, and doesn’t allow a small
thing like a battle to interfere. Hence, while
an Australian Light Horse lot were chasing
Abdul over the desert, and were so buried
in transport and other troubles that all their
papers and records had been left far behind
at Base, these commands fell in upon them:
i.
Please state how many chaplains .you have in your
Brigade, stating Denominations and Seniority.
n.
Reference seco % .id-hand shirts issued to your
Brigade after the operations of 4th to 12th August,
please state if any vermin were found in them.
111.
Please state the names of any enemy dead buried
by your Brigade, and show how their effects were
disposed of.
!V.
Please inform me if any units of your Brigade
possess Regimental bands in Egypt, and if they have
their instruments wP 'hem or elsewhere, or what
has become of them if they ever had any.
Although the chase after the enemy was
stopped on receipt of each of these telegrams
and the whole force searched, nobody had
the information concealed about him. Nobody
seemed to be even hiding a trombone.
“Chevron”: .Of the many stories of
Trooper Tommy Anzac, whom I love, I think
this best illustrates his humorous irreverence,
his willingness to help a man out of a hole,
and his instinctive impulse to be a sport. A
fine, fruity cleric, rising to his peroration
like a Murray cod to a grasshopper, observed
to his congregation of soldiers. “And what
did Moses say?” There was no reply from
his left- front, to which the question was
first addressed. To his direct front he
trumpeted once more, “And what did Moses
say?” Again no reply testified no business.
A' third time came the rhetorical query.
Dead silence. Then a taciturn Australian
galoot upheaved on the right front. “Oh,
well,” he drawled, while a slow grin spread
over his leathern dial, “I’ll be the blanky
mug. Wot did ’e say?”
* * * *
“Billiam” : It was at Gallipoli and I was
gathering up the wounded when I came
upon a badly-injured captain singing “Lead,
Kindly Light.” It brought back to me in a
rush my early religious education, and a
hymn I used to hear. I tell you you can
feel pretty serious on a battlefield. To the
next wounded man I came to, I said, as I
was about to pick him up, “Come along, old
chap, Jesus knows all about our troubles.”
He looked at me, groaned, and answered:
“Well, He must have been workin’ overtime
lately.”
* * * »
“R.N.L.”: The * Australian soldier in
France is not making much progress with
the language of the country. “Bon,” “no
bon” and “compree” make up the average
vocabulary. Being in urgent need of a
haircut I walked from the trenches one day
to the nearest town and discovered a barber
still plying his trade, although the Huns had
Commenced their “morning hate,” and the
civilians who “were seeing it through” were
fleeing wildly in all directions. I induced
Henri Gustave to make a start, and he was
getting along in a nervous fashion when a
Billjim ambled in and demanded coffee.
Henri looked desolate as I interpreted in
bad French. He waved hands and shrugged
shoulders and said “Non, non /” so I asked
Billjim' why he had come to, this particular
joint. “Well,” he said, “the bloke has a
sign up outside.” We trooped out to inves-
tigate, and Billjim solemnly pointed to a
board oh which was inscribed “Coiffeur.”
“Chevron”: It will be balm to the trucu-
lent soul of the writer of the Plain English
par. (B. 14/12/’l6) about Defence Minis-
ter Pearce’s confessed ignorance of the circs,
in which Australian soldiers travel in the
nigger compartments of Egyptian trains, to
know that Pearce is not going to be rude
about it. If it was expected that this inept
protector of the rights of Billjim was going
to make harsh remarks, that hope is per-
manently casualtied. Far from complaining,
the Minister praises and thanks them that
do despitefully use us. Haying learned that
the Egyptian railways carried free the gifts
of the Australian Comforts Fund, whatever
it did to the Australian soldier, he exudes
melted butter as follows: —
The distribution of gifts. .. .has been greatly facili-
tated by the liberal and courteous assistance
afforded by your department.... I desire to convey
to you [the secretary of the Egyptian State Rail-
ways] and to the responsible officers of your depart-
ment the thanks of the Commonwealth Government
for your helpful and public-spirited action in the
interests of the Australian soldiers.
No one will object to credit going where it
is due; but there is precious little due
to any administration which carries Bill-
jim’s “comforts” free but refuses to sell
Billjim himself a ticket to ride in anything
but an insanitary third- or nigger-class dog-
box.
QUITE A MISTAKE.
FLAPPER (gushingly): “Oh, how lovely! And you really lost your leg fighting at the
war”
RETURNED HERO (cheerfully): “Oh, no, Miss! They copped it when I wasn't lookin"
Something new in land-sale advts., found
in the Paris edition of the New York
Herald :—-
Battlefield for Sale.—For sale, piece of land of 10
hectares, furrowed with German and British trenches,
right on the Somme battle centre, north of the Bois
de Foureaux and south-east of Martinpuich.—Garob,
11 Rue Saint Louis, Amiens.
Evidently the owner is confident that the
Huns are on the road home and that he’ll
be able to deliver a cemetery full of their
bones.
* * * *
“Tiaki” : In the S.M.’s Court, Wellington
(M.L.), recently the Yankee skipper of
the Florence Luckenbaek haled one of his
hands before the beak to see if he couldn’t
get some legal hazing dealt out. It
appears that the man, a quarter-master, had
allowed the stearing-gear to break while he
was at the wheel, and was disrated to the
fo’castle. From there he was spokesman for
the seamen, who wanted something eatable,
and, in answer, he was put in irons. At
court he was charged with disobeying lawful
commands, but a lawyer proved “no juris-
diction,” the alleged offence having been
committed outside the three-mile limit.
When the skipper found that there was no
gaoling to be done and the court was
cleared, he bawled to an officer, “Bring the
cuffs down, Mac, and I’ll have the
alongside in •no time. I’ll drag the
aboard by the neck. You’re my
mahn now, O’Brien. I’ll hev you in
irons an’- thur yew’ll stop till I get yew ta
New Yurk, you ” I never saw a man
look so much the picture of despair as did
that poor son of the sea. I rounded up the
orderly and several clerks, and we explained
that dragging a handcuffed man through
the streets was not looked upon with favor
in M.L. Then the lawyer appeared and
took the sailor to the station to get his
belongings. The rest of us made a tar-
paulin muster and quietly bolted O’Brien
aboard an upcountry train while a Yankee
skipper waited in vain for his “meat.” If
it had been put aboard we didn’t like its
chance of reaching Noo Yark alive.
• * * *
“Castor” : Coming down the east coast a few
days ago, the collier Junee ran into a violent
thunderstorm, and immediately after one peal
of thunder something very large and mighty
hot lobbed_ into the sea about 40 yards dis-
tant with a roar like a six-inch gun hurling
destruction at the Ilunemy. The heat of
the missile must have been terrific, for a
cloud of steam (not spray) rose quite 30ft.
The second cook ventured the opinion that
it was a thunderbolt, and so far no one has
contradicted him.
“Yamba”: “Timi Piripi” (B. 14/12/’l6)
says “John Dunn has of course been modern-
ised into ‘John.’ ” I don't, agree with Timi.
I track our present word “John” —as indicat-
ing a bobby, peeler or a cop—in quite a
different direction. The old and fairly well-
known thieves’ rhyming-slang, of Cockney
London, is responsible. For instance, in
that lingo, “cop,” meaning a policeman, be
comes “John Hop.” A process of attrition,
due to sheer laziness, eliminates the “Hop”
part, and the policeman becomes just a
“John.” Many instances of similar muta-
tion may be found, e.g., the slang “On my
THE REASON.
SHE: “Why did Charlie fall out with you
after his wedding?”
HE: “It was I who advised him to get
married.”
own,” which became “On my. Pat Malone.”
is now rendered “On me Pat.” Similarly,
“Old Cheese and Kisses,” which indicated a
Cockney’s missus, became “Old Dutch
Cheese,” and finally, “Old Dutch,” concern-
ing whom Albert Chevalier has had a lot to
say. The Cockney who announced that he
had “nixey in his sky” was merely intimat-
ing that his sky-rocket, otherwise his pocket,
was empty.
ON DOGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The British Board of Trade is considering how to
deal with useless, superfluous dogs because of the
waste of food in maintaining them.— Cable.
There may be a plague of hunger on the land
(Bring out your dogs!) ;
There are corn ships sinking to the slime and sand
(Bring out your dogs!);
All the pampered curs of Mayfair and Park Lane,
The Pekingese that wears a golden chain,
\nd the Pomeranian, and the Borzoi strain —-
Bring out your dogs!
The footman no more takes them for a walk ;
Bring out your dogs!
They shall hear no more the lazy ladies talk ;
Bring out your dogs!
No more card-case, nor a quilted coat of silk,
Nor lace handkerchiefs to wipe his mouth of milk ;
Nor the perfume sprayed upon his carcase whilk —
(Bring out your dogs!)—
“Whilk,” as I said, is doomed (“whilk” meaning
“which”)
(Bring out your l dogs!)—-
The flat-faced Japs, the pug, the Russian bitch;
Bring out your dogs !
No more the stately footman to Hyde Park
Shall lead out Fido when the night is dark ;
Nor hear that fatted cur attempt to bark.
Bring out your dogs!
No more debauched on beef-tea and champagne;
Bring out your dogs!
No more silk-coated from the winter’s rain ;
Bring out your dogs!
Dachshunds, no more beneath a London sky,
Looking like six dogs long, half a dog high,
Know Freetrade masters who love Germany.
Bring out your dogs!
At last the children come into their own—
Bring out your dogs!
Perverted love for curs that gnaw the bone.
Bring out your dogs !
Now dogs .must go ; the little London kids,
riendless and hungry, may make bolder bids,
Grateful that war them of their rival rids.
Bring out your dogs!
No more shall countesses achieve the mumps
(Bring out your dogs!)
By kissing Fido, Ponto, Tige or Dumps;
Bring out your dogs !
And the Dogs’ Cemetgry shall be lone,
Since duchesses shall raise no new headstone;
For defunct Fido hear Belgravia moan.
(Bring out your dogs !)
N'.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


nvasas
■ :
. ' f
- • - ■- :
1
Lake Manapoun. New Zealand.
NEW ZEALAND
/Why not visit NEW
ZEALAND, the Wonderland
of the World, and enjoy
AReal Good Holiday
Special Tourist Excursion
Tickets on Railways.
Pamphlets and full informa-
tion supplied /ree at
New Zealand Government Offices,
SYDNEY: 14 MOORE STREET.
MELBOURNE : 59 WILLIAM ST.
The Ideal Summer Drink—
SCHWEPPES
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice.
This Lime Juice comes from the Island of
Montserrat. It is the standard for and
superior to all other Lime Juice.
Obtainable at all Leading
Storekeepers.
See that you get Schweppes and refuse
CHEAP IMITATIONS.
m
h
“Tiaki”: I think Annie Latham is the
most casual lady that Maoriland has met. In
1908 she married one llollier, a gun-barrel
grinder, at Birmingham (Eng.). After a
few years she tired of him and walked Fred-
erick Bradley to church. llollier presently
interviewed the new husband and explained
the position. It staggered Bradley. He
thought a. stretch of gaol might he hanging
out for him for bigamy, so, in his ignorance,
he paid a 10-pound note for the woman and
for her original owner’s silence. Then he lit
out with her for M.L. After a spell she jot
tired some more, and took one Templeton to
the altar. But the habit of change was upon
her, and she soon left him for another —one
Lyle. Templeton thereupon strode forth in
search of divorce, only to ascertain that
Bradley was ahead of him. Lyle now defies
Templeton to make him a co-re., arguing
that Annie is not his (Templeton’s) wife at
all. lie claims that if llollier is dead, Brad-
ley is the only one who could cite him as a
co-re. Bradley meanwhile has secured annul-
ment, and the only placid narty in the
general turbulence is the cause of it all.
“Jobber”: A Brlljim was sitting outside
the post office at Ismailia (Egypt) one after-
noon when a Tommy officah rode up and dis-
mounted. “Heah, my man, hold my horse.”
Bill coolly looked him up and down, and
asked, “Is ’e a quiet ’orseV” “Oh, yes, per-
fectly quiet.” “Can one man '’old ’im?”
“Of course,” replied the Honorable Fitz-
Stars. “Well,” drawled Bill, “ ’old ’im
yerself!”
* * * *
“Bad Australian” from Buenos Aires :
Away back in the bad old times when I put in some
of the. best days of my life in a protracted but
steadily-losing fight against the “weird melancholy,”
Brer rabbit and a mortgage, I regarded the gum-
tree and its suckers as curses to be burned or blasted
off my bit of landscape with the least possible delay.
But I find that the poor benighted brown
denizen of J 3. America regards it as one of God's
best gifts to man. He plants it and nurtures it
with a great care, and he carefully collects such
leaves as it sheds from time to time. These, slowly
consumed in the embers of his brazier, he regards as
an infallible preventive of all kinds of disease except
poverty, and he goes so far as to assert that the
eucalyptified incense tends to soothe even that
scourge. In Argentina he uses an infusion of its
leaves in his camomile tea and mixes them with his
mustard-plaster. He sews them into his somewhat
insanitary chest-protector, and he regards the gom
mixed with a little oil or grease as a sure dividend-
payer in cases of sores or abrasions, and a sovereign
remedy for most stomach troubles. lie is only a
poor ignorant half-breed mostly, but his faith in the
eucalypt seems to be borne out by results. And
when his tree or . shrub strikes adversity and goes
out of business, he steps around to the nearest herb-
alist and is “soaked” at the rate of 4d. per pound
for a fresh supply of Iris universal panacea.
WHAT THE DEVIL MADE IT FOR.
BILLJIM: “And to think if it ’ain't been for
this war we might never have met!
Seems to me the bloomin' thing just
had to happen.”
Henry Holder, of Broken Hill, committed
suicide shortly after his wife’s body had been
found in a shaft at Stephens ureek. At
the inquest the wife of a soldier on active
service said she met Holder at a picnic,
when he represented himself as a single man.
She had gone for a drive with him, and at
other times she had been in his company in
the parks. “If she had known he was mar-
ried she would not have gone with him.”
Thank Heaven, there is at least one right-
thinking person in the community!
A FRESH START.
CHRONIC DEAD-BROKE: “Well, I’m on me
feet a pen at last."
BILL THE SHEARER: “Hom'd you manage
that?”
CHRONIC DEAD-BROKE: “Lost me ’orse.”
“Carfax” : The refusal of Justice Hodges
to grant leave to a woman to proceed upon
a writ issued against W. M. Hughes, claim-
ing £lOOO on a Melbourne property deal,
because defendant was “engaged upon
important public business” reminds me.
Over in Maoriland members of the Legisla-
ture cannot be sued for debt while Parlia-
ment is in session. The law was arranged
that way in the long ago to suit a big man
who owed cash to everybody. But it was
mighty convenient to others later on, includ-
ing one chronically impecunious Parliamen-
tarian who has since paid the last great
debt of all. When Parliament was in
recess his movements were wondrously
erratic; his whereabouts at any given
moment as uncertain as the weather. The
measures he took to throw the summons-
server off the trail while he negotiated a
journey to the barber’s or a pub or some-
where brought confusion to the constituents
who wanted to interview him about amend-
ing clause 4a, But when Parliament met,
lo ! that monumental form emerged into the
full glare of publicity, emancipated and
unafraid of the threatening butcher and the
emissary from a stricken baker. Decorated
with a silk hat it stalked majestically abroad,
while baffled creditors furiously gnashed any
teeth they happened to have. On the
last day of the session the air of independ-
ence and self-reliance fled. He began to look
furtively round corners and contemplate
short cuts. The flight from security on the
last night was generally a masterpiece of
strategy. He was a splendid ower and
used to declare that the law which every
year gave him a few months’ spell from sur-
prise parties was the finest piece < f demo-
cratic legislation ever placed upon the
statute book of any country on earth.
“F. Seedy”: When I read that General
Maxwell had been relieved of the Irish com-
mand, I knew that the British -Government
had no use for a man of tact. Maxwell is
a U tact. So is his wife. When they were
in Egypt Mrs. Max. told the Australian
officers that she and her husband would like
to come more into touch with the rank and
file generally. The r. and f. having no objec-
tion, the Maxwells ordered a spread in Cairo
for 8000 men in a large hall. When we
boys arrived we found trestle tables arrayed,
a go-as-you-please concert in full swing, and
the host and hostess “mixing” for all they
were worth. Then came the spread. Each
man had placed in front of him two most
appetising slices of bread and ’ jam and a
beautiful large mug of tea. And lest we
might swallow the mugs and thus do an
injury to ourselves, they were fastened to
the table.
“Carfax”: The gaoling ,of 40 stewards
who struck on the Canberra at Brisbane,
the sailing of the steamer without them, and
the great success with which the passengers
made their own beds, acquired food and
carried their handbags ashore may be tin l
dawn of a new day. Who desires 40
stewards? What most people who go on
hoard steamers want is to be discharged at
the other end, and they would be more
satisfied if they were left alone in the meari-
time. The system
ought to he altered
from top to bottom.
When a citizen pur-
chaseg a steamer
ticket inter - State,
anyway—he should be
handed a metal disc
entitling him to take
possession of a bunk.
If he wanted a sar-
dine for dinner he
could have one of his
own. That’s how
things are done on a
train. The business
could be. simplified by
the shipping com-
panies down to a
point that would cut
the price of transport
in halves. And the
price prevailing sim-
ply shrieks for treat-
ment with edged tools.
There are so many
stewards on steamers
now that by the time
a passenger has dis-.
covered one who will
get him a cup of tea
the voyage is over,
and all the others
have surrounded him
demanding to know
where his overcoat is
in order that they
may earn the price of six coats by lifting,it
on to the wharf and losing it in the wrong
cab.
* * * *
“Billy T.” meets his Christmas drunk: —
Collins-street was choked with Christmas buyers,
when a motor-car came humming along, with a short,
podgy, brown-clad man hanging on behind, strain-
ing his brief legs to keep up. Noticing the crowd’s
excited interest the chauffeur pulled up at Swanston-
street. The man in brown leaned on the back of
the car. “There,” he said, “I won’t push the damn
thing a foot farther!”
BARE FACTS.
“Do you like it?”
“I don’t know. But after this, when you
tell me you haven’t got a rag to your
hack, I’ll know what you mean.”
“Die Mihi” r Well done, Donald Charleson,
of Mooroorook (Vic.), “who disclaimed any
connection with Eureka”! As a perfervid
Australian, knowing my country’s history, I
think we ought to try to forget the Eureka
rebellion, which was a sordid and squalid
resistance to authority from pure love of
defiance of Government. Admitting that
Bentley the publican may have killed Scobie
the digger with a shovel for insolently de-
mantling drink at midnight, and even grant-
ing that Fletcher, Mclntyre and Weatherly
were therefore entitled to burn down
Bentley’s house, did that justify the insur-
gent diggers in arming against the authori-
ties? Gold by the law of Britain was of
old a “royal” metal; even upon sold land
it Wift claimable by the State. llow much
more, then, on the State’s own unalienated
territory! The gold did not belong to the
diggers. It was the property of the State
then as now. The State asked £1 10s. a
month, or £lB a year, for a license to pick
this gold up in slugs on the surface and
down to 12ft. by digging. The gold was
accessible and available to all, in immense
quantities, and surely 80s. a month was not
much to pay for the privilege of gathering
it in chunks and hunks. Besides, it was
a legitimate fee to form part of the Govern-
ment revenue, which was spent in protecting
the diggers and providing police and soldiers
to keep law and order. Contemporary infor-
mation indicates that the. diggers exaggerated
their grievance and were misled by agitators
of the type of Vern, the German commander-
in-chief at Eureka, and Peter Lalor, the
man who brought his grievance agin’ the
Government from distressful Ireland.
Hotham, the Governor, had proved himself a
remarkably brave and able naval commander,
and he commenced his career in Victoria by
a public profession of the. most ultra-demo-
cratic principles. When he reached Mel-
bourne lie found the Treasury empty and
that the public officials had been peculating
to the extent of several hundred thousand
pounds. Therefore revenue was needed. And,
on the whole, it was a pretty mean thing of
the diggers to refuse to. contribute when they
were on such a good wicket. So the Eureka
stockade riot stands on the same plane as
the refusal of the Boston Yankees to pay
taxes to the Home Government to be spent
in protecting them by police in their towns
and by soldiers on their frontiers. The far-
seeing American colonists saw a chance of
getting a lot of valuable land for nothing
by rebelling, and tliev rebelled. The diggers
saw a chance of getting a lot of gold for
nothiand they rebelled, too.
“Minute Gun”: The
piling up of the
packet Belmore on the
Macleay bar, N.S.W.
North Coast, recalls
another catastrophe.
A schooner beating up
to the entrance missed
stays and sagged in-
shore. At nightfall
her anchors carried
away and the heavy
. seas drove the frail
craft to her doom.
She crashed on the
sand with a jolt that
shook the very teeth
of her _ white-lipped
crew. Dimly the shore
could be seen under,
the lee, but nb assist-
ance was forthcoming,
so all hands took to
the rigging and clung
on for dear life. Some
prayed; all shouted
hoarsely . for help.
Heavy rain set in, and
it was icy cold, but
with the spirit of their
race these brave Brit-
ish seamen (mostly
called Johansen)
clung on. Just as the
first faint flush of
dawn spread the be-
numbed mate cried,
“What the ’ell’s that?
Joost listen.” Then a
gruff voice was heard
saying, “Why don’t
you Blokes come
ashore ?” The schooner
had been driven right
across the Spit, and
the beach was within easy wading distance.
It was a great procession.
* * * *
“Y.Z.” : Re William Grant’s escapade in
walking out of Melbourne Gaol, the authori-
ties should by this time be impressed with the
futility of spiked-topped walls as a means of
preventing the man inside from getting out.
In at least half a dozen instances I can recall
the spikes have assisted prisoners. They are
a standing invitation to any criminal who
can get anything in the shape of a rope to
try his luck. Not very long ago one boy of
half a dozen who were playing cricket near
Pentridge went over the supposed impassable
stockade and recovered the ball.
AS IN THE DAYS OF OLD!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You take her pearl and amethyst,
And softly supplicate;
And I’ll take her a clenched fist—
I know with whom she’ll mate.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


1917.


ris h's
|0 ir/aVea dip
t&ro/er/
oq
lorrjafic d
'jjtuatiorv
Ld* William note with Sorrow)
WVien "the leaues "to Tati
The prodigals lomnorrowj
"the. shadow orAVie wall ..
PrACE ..
fakth
let meW &
-is make a gailanT spw
Amo vwrtH
TAKE' IM HANE>
Cj.f. Pearte
And all be ■hmcMvoA V) Him lurking’,
We Trust -tile ■ That pull The sfnrj
Will keeb^^KHe
-fba you; , oua S>v^Ey,
Oua Al-evo yv» im T^aot«»
A> 'wvcru. i&fef
a -eotfa d/ps ;
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS.


ZANETIG entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
CHRISTIE^
£P£CIAUS£
TWO
L/NES
kirt 5
S
#
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
f.f'o
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
Hie STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
zc /IQNTER §' NEWCASTLE
11
m
■
s
m
ft*
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&WhITTY
<0
fawiOt
ME
1%)•
yfe&UfVt"
OlimME& SYDNEY
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY CSIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERTONAL
ITEMS
JOYFUL JACOB STUMM, M.H.R. (Q.).
The unfortunate Chidley, who has been
confined in Callan Park Asylum for some
weeks past, died unexpectedly last week. While
walking along the verandah he suddenly
threw up his hands and fell, death being
instantaneous. Probably the cause was an
undiscovered injury sustained when he threw
himself down a flight of stone stairs at the
reception house. The cult he fought to
establish is not to be allowed to die.
Chidley had many enthusiastic followers, and
one of them, at least, will put on the gar-
ments of a simple life and endeavor to
preach the glad doctrine of nudity. That
one is Shirlow, his chief supporter, who, by
the way, has a remarkable resemblance to
the founder. Shirlow also intends to
publish a book of Chidley memoirs.
Hughes’s new team ought to be called
the Sweet William Cabinet. Hughes,
Webster, Archibald, Bamford, Spence and
Laird Smith all bear the same name as the
male goat and the head of the Hohenzollern
tribe.
BILLJIM’S LITTLE JOKE.
When Victoria’s first gold (or thereabouts)
was discovered at Anderson’s Creek in 1851,
the then very-youthful Argus sent John de
Boos to write something about it. John saw
enough to make him throw up reporting and
go digging. In 1853 he thought he saw
something still better: pitching his tent at
Euroa he started a store to keep the Ovens
River diggers going. He has passed on. but
his widow still lives at Euroa and had her
99th birthday the other day.
Of the I.W.W. men who were sentenced
in Sydney lately to long terms of imprison-
ment Teen is married and has two children,
one of them only three months old. Glynn,
who was once a sergeant of police, but re-
cently editor of Direct Action, the I.W.W.
paper, and Larkin —a brother of “Jim,” of
Dublin" strike reputation—are also married,
and each has one child. Most of the men
were unskilled laborers, the majority of them
wharfies; but Larkin had worked as a sea-
man and docker, Grant as a ship painter
and docker, Besant as .an engineer, King
as printer and publisher of Direct Action,
and Hamilton as a miner. Fagin came from
Russia by way of the U.S.A., and brought
with him the latest stock of revolutionary
ideas. With a hard experience of Russia
and the industrial conditions of America,
he was the most bitter of all.
“Vulpes” concerning another White
Hope:—
Donald Mackinnon, who has taken on the job of
Chief Recruiter, made his early reputation as junior
to Higgins in the famous Federal Bank case. Higgins
in that dreary drama of Melbourne land boom spoke
for over 70 days from notes devilled by his plodding
assistant, and when the trial ended no eulogy was
more deserved than the compliment old Holroyd paid
to the mole-like industry and inexhaustible patience
that had built up such a wonderful fabric of figure
and fact. If he had continued in active practice
Mackinnon, with his talent for taking pains, might
have raised himself to High Court eminence. But he
lacked spur, and the Federal Bank affair was almost
his last appearance on the legal stage. In politics
he has been a pathetic disappointment. Not without
ideas and the gift of expression, he could never give
action to his carefully-nurtured thought. ' I remember
going to hear him speak at Prahran Town Hall during
a crisis in Cabbage Garden politics. He was then
the coming man. His reception was so enthusiastic
that Donald was flabbergasted by its fervor. Yet
before his two hours of philosophic platitudes had
ended every pub in Chapel-street was being over-
worked. AVhen Syme was fighting Tom Bent he
sent for Mackinnon to see if he had the makings of a
leader. Shrewd, keen-eyed David had the measure of
the eager candidate for the Premiership in five
minutes, and the job, too big for him, went to
Murray and Watt.
John Henry Cann, who, having to be
provided for when the coalition was formed
in N. S. Wales, has been pitchforked into
a Railway Gommissionership at £l2OO a
year, hasn’t had a day’s training for the
job. In the North of England he was a
coalminer, and, coming to Australia, fol-
lowed that calling in N. S. Wales until he
went to Broken Hill and got a place under-
ground there. He happened to be in office
in the -Miners’ Assoc, when the IS9I election
arrived, and was given the seat. He has
held it ever since, not because he has ever
done anything worth mentioning for the
miners, but because he is a pleasant chap
who knows how to avoid making enemies.
No man in the House is more suave; yet,
curiously, no member of the crude old Labor
party has taken less pains to educate him-
self, and his composition and his spelling
are still weird and wonderful.
Dead recently, Edward Pearson Ramsay,
LL.D., formerly curator of the Australian
Museum, Sydney, where he succeeded Gerard
Krefft. Ramsay was son of Dr. David Ram-
say, an old colonist, his mother being a
daughter of Simeon Lord, of Macquarie
Place, one of Sydney’s earliest and wealthiest
merchants. The elder Ramsay died in 1866,
the wife in 1889. Both' lie in a vault in a
private cemetery adjoining the Presbyterian
Church of St. David, Haberfield, the founda-
tion-stone of which was laid by the Duke of
Edinburgh. The suburb now known as
Haberfield Avas originally called Dob-
ro.vd. Away back in the dawn of last
cehtury Ensign Nicholas Bayley obtained a
grant of 480 acres, the Haberfield of modern
days. This passed to Simeon Lord, who
gavn it as a dowry to his daughter, Sarah
Ann, on her marriage in 1825 to Dr. Ramsay,
the father of the man who has just had a
funeral.
Cann’s removal to the N.S.W. Railway
office as a Commissioner leaves McGowen
the one member of the N. S. Wales Labor
party who has stuck to it throughout its
life. But there are several others of those
“ninety-oners” who have dropped out to
either come in again or join the Opposition
crowd: “Jupp” Gardiner, Joe Cook, J. B.
Nicholson, Arthur Rae (temporarily out
altogether), Edden, George Black and J. D.
Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald and McGowen were
members of the first committee of manage-
ment, which ran the party before it had
found its leader.
Lance Stirling, who has been President
of the S. Aus. Leg. Council for 15 years, has
not missed a sitting since he has held the
chair.
The Luke who happens to be Mayor of
Wellington is one of the few men in Maori-
land who are always spoken of in the
Yankee fashion: he is referred to by his
first Christian name and the initial of the
second. This precaution separates John P.
from about 125 other Lukes, cousin Jacks
to a man, and especially from his brother,
Charles M., a former Mayor and the pro-
prietor of a foundry and copious whiskers.
John P. is also in the foundry, but keeps
his foliage fairly well harvested. _ He has
been a strenuous battler in public affairs
for many years,
and at one time
was a Ward Lib-
eral in the House
of Reps. Being an
earnest Baptist
John P. is also
inclined to a
gentle, unostentati-
ous wowserism. He
was one of the first
engineers employed
in the Government
railway workshops
at Petone, is about
60 and has the
.honor of being hus-
band of a lady who
toils as hard for the
lads in khaki as
any of her sex this
side the river
Jordan.
J. P. LUKE,
Mayor of Welling-
ton ( M.L.).
Henare has been holding the largest tangi
that ever rippled along the Wanganui as a
send-off to Wikahi Tairapanga, of the
Ngatipamona tribe, the last of the big
chiefs on the river. Wikahi fought through
all the early Maori disturbances, and served
under Major Kemp in the historic brushes
at Moutoa and Waitotara. He also fought
with the pakeha against. Te Kooti, the
notorious rebel, whom many thought was
destined to rid Maoriland of the white man.
The old chief was 78 when he faded out of
the picture.
Paul Hunt, a tough proposition accused
of inflicting serious bodily harm on on
John Perrit in Collingwood, expressed dis-
gust when a witness described how be
struck complainant with a lemonade bottle.
“Now, I ask you,” cut in defendant indig-
nantly, “what’d I be doin’ with a lemonade
bottle ?”
Of tlie last S. Aus. Ministry in office at the
time of "Federation only two of the six
R. W. Foster, of the Rens., and Larry
O’Louglilin, of the State House of Assembly—
are now in politics. Holder, who was Pre-
mier, and Ted Batchelor, Minister of Educa-
tion, are dead. Attorney-General Gordon
has long been a Judge, and J. Greeley Jen-
kins, the Chief Sec., is guinea-pigging in
London.
BEYOND FORGIVENESS.
“What, you killed three Germans and cap-
tured two —all by yourself! Why
didn't you kill the lot while you was
about it?”
“Gripes , I wish I had! One of the cows
went and pinched ' me last bloomin'
cigarette.”
J. D. Andrews, captain of the P. and O. liner
Morea, who died the other day, was the son
of an Anglican canon in Adelaide. Andrew’s
was dodging his way to Australia in his ship
w’hen a weak heart put in a claim, and
he was buried at sea, off Gibraltar. He was
only 53.
Clifford Evershed, of the A.1.F., killed in
France, was the second son of Dr. Montague
F. Evershed, who has been Government
medical-officer at Bega (N.S.W.) for the
past 40 vears. Young Evershed, who was 84,
was in the Commercial Bank at Albury when
he enlisted last year. He was an old boy of
the King’s School, Parramatta, where he
learnt enough cricket and football to make
him one of the best all-round athletes in the
southern districts of the Ma State.
Captain W. E. Giblin, of the Army Medi-
cal Corps, who has won the Military Cross
as regimental surgeon of the Loyal North
Lancashires in France, is the 30-year-old son
of now-deceased N. F. Giblin, who managed
the Sydney office of the Bank of N. Z., and
was subsequently one of the Ma State’s
official assignees in bankruptcy. Young
Giblin was schooled at the C.E.G.S., North
Sydney, and took his medical degree at
Sydney Uni. a few years ago.
The first marriage celebrated by an R.C.
priest in Australasia was on April 30, 1803,
when Father Dixon, one of the Irish exiled
priests, united Henry Simpson, a shipwright,
to Catherine Rourke, of The Rocks, widow’.
“But the boys will be wanting something
to eat when they get to Gallipoli,” said Le
Joune, regimental cook of the 4th Light
Horse, to the pleading of certain officers
that he should remain with them in Egypt.
So he went away w'ith the horsemen that
were horsemen no longer, and was one of
that army of ready-made infantry which
won fame. Le Jeune, wdio was one of the
first to volunteer in Melbourne, was a chef
whose skill had been recognised at Parlia-
ment House. Under him the officers’ mess
of the 4th Light Horse became the Paris
House of Broadmeadow’S Camp, and in
Egypt those who had to stay behind could
hardly bear to let him go. But he jumped
from the frying-pan into the firing-line—or
as close to it as the field-kitchen could
come, and in Gallipoli a tent-fly would cover
both. On good days and bad days he was
as a tower of strength and an enduring
hash-mosque to the lads in the trenches —
until, on August 7, 1915, he was sitting
with five comrades, drinking tea, a Turk-
ish shell burst among them. Four were
wounded and two killed, Le Jeune being
struck in the legs and back. So ended his
service with the boys who “would be want-
ing something to eat.”
“W’EN ARE YER GOIN’ AWAY?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ’adn’t ten minutes enlisted,
W’en I bumps an old pot that I know,
An’ ’e collars me ’and,
An’ ’e ses: “Lad, it’s grand
F’r ter see all you young fellers go!
I’m too old f’r th’ fi’tin’,” ’e yabbers,
“Or I’d off to the trenches t’dav!”
Then ’e sighed, shook ’is head,
But bucked up an’ sed:
“An’ w’en are yer goin’ away?”
“W’en are yer goin’ away?”
It’s all that th’ civvies can say 4
W’ile they’re warmin’ their feet,
They’ll all smooge an’ repeat:
“Ow, w’en are yer goin’ away ?”
I went inter camp on the Monday,
An’ me name wasn’t dry on the book,
An’ me noo dungarees
Was still chafin’ me knees,'
W’en a pass on the Friday I took;
An’ I goes inter town in a moter—
I’d a feelin’ I wants to go gay—
An’ I meets an old cobber
’Oo screws at me clobber
With, “W’en are yer goin’ away ?”
“W’en are yer goin’ away?”
I knoo wot the blighter ’d say !
Me just ’nockulated,
An’ not vaccernated,
An’, “W’en are yer goin’ away?”
An' all through th’ weeks uv me trainin’,
Me musketry, drillin’, an’ that,
If I’d mooch up th’ street,
Ev’rv bloke that I’d meet
Would ’and me th’ same silly chat;
I’d buy ’em a pot or a shandy
(An’ they’d always allow me to pay),
An’ they'd sling me: “’Ere’s ’owl
Give ’im nothin’, the cow —
An’ w’en are yer goin’ away?”
“W’en are yer goin’ away?”
They’d kid to yer day aft&r day !
Fr'm th’ time I enlisted
The blokes still persisted
With, “W’en are yer goin’ away?”
Well, I lef’ all the cocktails be’ind me,
An’ 1 goes to me place in th’ scrap.
An’ I’m doin’ me bit,
W’en ole Fritz scores a ’it,
An’ I’m blanky near wiped off th’ map ;
An’ I’m back ’ere again convalescent,
An’ I waltz down the street th’ first day,
W’en up ’ops a bloke,
An’ th’ first words ’e spoke
Was: “W’en are yer goin’ away?”
Oh! “W’en are yer goin’ away?”
It’s all the tame maggies can say!
Though you’re chockful of lead,
An’ you’re damn nearly dead,
It’s, “W’en are yer goin’ away?”
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


CHAMPION
I Soil your own Cigarette
f from
Champion Fine Cut
Rich & Full Flavoured
A€r t/cat
L Tuyct tc Mnjcr/votitf
* &tK£oy/ dtlLs
7huU<LiynJV
f from & j
Champion Fine Cut
in 2 oz. Tins.
TOBACCO


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS —Deep and Shallow
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for non-flowing bores and where the water has receded.
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney. Adopted by the Government
for increasing supply at Pcra Bore, Bourke. [2
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street. ;
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ADAMAX ROOFING RESISTS THE ELEMENTS
No matter which side of your building catches the South Wind—the sun or the rain
' —the roof gets them all.
Therefore use ADAMAX ROOFING—not only because it costs less to buy.and less for freight than
galvanised iron, but because it does not rot, rust or pinhole ; because it is easier handled; can be
laid with much less pitch than galvanised iron, thereby saving timber; it is not affected by climatic
changes, by gases, chemicals, etc.
Adamax Roofing is made from Long Fibred Felt thoroughly impregnated with pure
hydro-carbon. It is free from fish oil, resin or tar —has no odor, and does not affect
water. Get full particulars and prices now.
WII.D&M ADAMS & CO. LTD., Svdnev. Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY 'LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONY A L LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:—
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :—•
Ex- Writ- Added
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
1904.. £717,062 £328,920 £129,591 - £258,551
1905.. 762,906 361,053 138,370 £963 262,520
1906.. 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907.. 898,253 374,809 157,512 1993 363,939
1908.. 970,611 407.168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909.. 1,043,801 449,957 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 411,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176,344 4744 502,464
1912.. 1,284,364 520,249 174,664 2016 587,435
1913.. 1,395,866 511,045 175,031 709,790
1914.. 1,479,109 591,062 177,491 710,556
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173- 165,655 • 692,440
1916.. 1,663,128 763,001 168,805 731,322
It takes a lot of pushing to get an insur-
ance office on the move; but when it does
start it takes a lot to stop it. It is so diffi-
cult to show respectable figures for the*first
few years, especially if you are troubled with
a conscience; afterwards it is not exactly
difficult perhaps to show bad figures, but
with favorable conditions you can then easily
show attractive ones if you exercise reason-
able care and know something about organ-
isation. Yet, throwing in the undoubted
fact that Australia has been enjoying un-
usual prosperity (that it is largely of the
bogus variety which proceeds from whole-
sale borrowing doesn’t matter), this office’s
achievement is something it has good reason
to be proud of. And all the better reason
because, if we rule out the no-medical-exam-
ination policies, the society in getting busi-
ness has done nothing to which the most
respectable old insurance man can object.
As to the policies that are issued without
examination, the society seems as weii
pleased with them as with any. After 12
years’ experience the actuary reported that
“the ratio of actual to expected claims under
proposals so accepted has throughout not
exceeded the ratio of the total business.”
The immediate effect on the other side has
been to greatly reduce the proportion of
medical exes, to total outgoings. Here are
the figures :■ —-
Proportion of Medical Exes, to New Premiums.
New Medical
Premiums. Exes.
1903 .. £68,456 £7503 10.9 p.c.
1912 . . 120,518 7265 6.0 „
1913 . . 122,897 6737 5.4 „
1914 .. 121,015 6241 5.1 „
1915 . . 118,357 5091 4.3 „
1916 . . 126,850 5463 4.3 „
It looks as though careful inquiry as to the
history and habits of a “case” can very
satisfactorily displace the ordinary medical
examination of which so many people have
a curious dread. It is quite likely that the
provision for doing without this examina-
tion brings an appreciable amount of
thoroughly good business to the office.
Though the National Mutual has always
been a strenuous business-getter, it has man-
aged to show a fine reduction in its expense
rate :—-
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £lB 2 9 p.c. j 1912.. £l3 11 11 p.c.
1908.. 16 14 6 „ | 1913.. 12 10 9 „
1909.. 15 1 1 „ 1914.. 12 0 0 „
1910.. 15 0 3 „ 1915. . 10 13 0 „
1911.. 14 14 4 „ I 1916.. 10 3 0 „
Of course this has been easier than it looks.
In the first place the interest earnings, which
now constitute very nearly a third of the
total income, have grown with the accumula-
tion of funds; and interest doesn’t cost
much to collect. But apart from that the
results are all right. Assuming that through-
out the old or renewal business cost 7 p.c. of
the premiums and the single-premium
(annuity) business cost 3 p.c., then the new
business has been got with the following-
outlay : —-
Exes. New
Chargeable Business
New to New Expense
Sept., Business. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 .. 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1914 .. 121.015 112,577 93.2 „
1915 .. 118,357 97,229 82.1 „
1946 .. 126,850 96,229 75.8,,
There are offices which show a lower figure
than 75.8 p.c.; but it is a good one, never-
theless. And it would probably be better
had the National Mutual not missed the
chance some years ago of establishing an
Industrial branch to feed the Ordinary busi-
ness. How much better this expense rate
will grow depends very largely upon circum-
stances beyond the society’s control. Dur-
ing the past 10 years Australia has spent
something like £130.000,000 of borrowed
money, apai-t from what the war has been
costing the Commonwealth; and a small
community like ours can’t do that without
feeling that it can well afford to take a
few pounds more of life-insurance. Unless
most of the prophets are all wrong there will
not be any £180,000,000 of money for the
States to borrow in the next 30 years. On
the contrary, there will be a huge interest
bill to be paid out of taxation ; and that is
going to have.a serious effect, not only on
the available amount of new business, but
on renewals as well. Incidentally, bonuses
will be affected bv the large payments which
this in common with other offices must, make
to meet claims in respect of soldiers’ lives.
While the total income for the past year
was only 19 p.c. greater than for 1913, the
claims were no less than 49 p.c. greater.
On the other hand, while the war has
largely increased the claims, it has slightly
improved the interest earnings
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £4 13 2 p.c. I 1915 .. £4 17 2 p.e.
1910 .: 412 3 „ | 1916 .. 41? 8 „
1914 .. 416 8 „ I
The total funds as at Sept. 30 were
£10,127,573, plus an investment fluctuation
reserve of £76,724; and ss. p.c. improvement
on that lot means about £25,500 a year—an
improvement which is going to last when the
death claims through the war have become
infinitesimal. Still, that is not going to
be anything like a complete set-off, because
with the extra earnings there will be
extra taxation. In 1914 the society paid
£18,024 in taxes. Last year the total was
and we have not reached the maxi-
mum yet by any means. Some relief will
no doubt be got through the investment of
most of the new money in Commonwealth
loans which are practically free from taxes.
But that relief only throws a larger propor-
tionate burden upon the other investments.
The assets are distributed as follows :■ —•
1900. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Public securities 3.4 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 8.9 p.c. 12.5 p.c..
Mortgages .. 50.5 „ 5511 „ 58.7 „ 56.9 „
Foreclosures . . 4.4 ~ 1.3 ~ 0.5 ~ 0.5 ~
Freeholds . . 12.7 „ 12.8 „ 9.2 „ 8.7 „
Loans on policies 14.3 ~ 9.8 ~ 9.4 ~ 9.3 ~
Other assets .. 14.7 „ 15.9 ~ 13.3 ~ 12.1 ~
The movement, generally, has been towards
greater security for the policy-holders. The
investment in mortgages is, however, still
very heavy; and how they are going to pan
out depends mostly upon the skill and care
with which the money has been placed. 8o
far as probing here and there enables one to
say, the loans have beeli made always or
almost always on properties which are
assuredly productive. They may shrink in
capital value; but in that connection an
insurance office such as this is excellently
placed inasmuch as it can afford to wait for
the recovery which on past Australian
experience is inevitable.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1906. . £8,952 124 p.c. = £4,742 £4,210 £40,832
1907.. 9,249 10 ~ ~ 4,126 5,123 45,955
1908.. 9,535 121 „ ~ 5,659 3,876 49,831
1909.. 12,018 121 „ „ 5,836 6,182 56,013
1910.. 13,691 10 „ „ 5,190 8,501. 64,514
Transferred to capita], £ 5807 .. 58,707
1911. . 24,624 10 p.c. = 6,301 18,323 77,030
Transferred to capital, £9670 . . 67,360
1912.. 33,737 16 p.c. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 . . 79,029
1913.. 35,351 121 p.c. = 11,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capita], £39,774 . . 63,397
Cash bonus distributed, £145 , . " 63,252
1914. . 30,263 8 p.c. = 10.482' 19,781 83,033
1915.. 30,556 9 „ ~ 11,790 18,766 101,799
Transferred to capital, £ 26,057 .. 75,742
Cash bonus distributed, £147 .. 75,595
1916.. 34,789 9 p.c. = 14,136 20,653 96,248
This paper doesn’t know how the Inter-
colonial did it in the past year. All the light
the directors throw upon the matter is this:
“The conservative policy of the co. in past
years is now standing it in good stead, and,
though sales are not as active as formerly,
the income from other sources has been main-
tained.” The co., though it has been man-
aged with quite unusual skill, couldn’t have
done so remarkably well if ciremnstaffees had
not favored it. Increasing taxation on land
values made the holders of suburban estates
anxious to sell at reasonable prices. The
graduated tax made the impost on a big pad-
dock a serious matter; and the price was
affected in consequence. But the small allot-
ment, held by a man who had no other land
to speak of, escaped taxation altogether; and
so its price was not affected. Thus the
graduated taxation played into the hands of
the subdivisionist. And, of course, the bor-
rowing boom, which has for some years past
created artificial values, played still more.
Hence we find that while the average profits
of this co. for the three years to 1906 were
under £BOOO,. for the past three years they
have averaged nearly £32,000.
The co., while making these glittering-
profits, adopted a policy which, as it very
rightly says, is calculated to help it now.
Instead of paying out large cash bonuses it
kept the bulk of the money in the business
by issuing bonus shares. Therefore it has
never had to do much borrowing. To-day it
owes only £38.995, while its assets consist
of freeholds £56,141, borrowers’ and pur-
chasers’ balances (after deducting suspense
accounts) £225.629, cash and Commonwealth
war loan £18,503, and a few sundries, mak-
ing up a total of £300,756. The freeholds
include fine city office property; so either
the co. has precious few subdivision remnants
on hand, or they have been written down to
next to nothing. Probably some of these
severely-written-down remnants are being got
rid of, and that is where part of the profit
is now coming from. But the profit from
rhe old uncompleted business must tail off;
and the prospect of much new business is
sick. The reserves are, however, so substan-
tial that, assuming that there will be no
losses of principal to speak of (which seems
a very fair assumption), the co. need only
earn 5 p.c. net on its funds to show an 8 p.c.
dividend on its capital.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of counter-sales books and
other commercial stationery :
Towards
Oct,., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.*
1909.. r £7446
1910.. £3380 8 p.c. =£2410 £970 6476
£l2OO transferred to capital .. 7676
1911.. 4448 S p.c. = 2410 2038 5638
1912.. 4640 8 „ „ 2410 2230 3408
1913.. 4202 8 „„ 2410 1792 1616
£6O net added to goodwill items 1676
1914.. 3467 8 p.c. = 2822 645 1031
Added to goodwill items, £l5 . . 1046
1915.. 2750 64 p.c. = 2418 332 714
Added to goodwill items, £l5 . . 729
1916.. 3638 8 p.c. = 2976 662 67
*Goodwill ( £9500) and other “paper” not counted
as assets.
It used to be a proprietary co.; and pref.
shares were issued to get in some capital.
In those days part of the goodwill was
represented by ordinaries —£6000 worth.
The pref. shares stopped at 8 p.c. Then
the ordinaries agreed to let all rank alike
for dividend in return for 1200 more £1
shares. That is the £l2OO which appears
. high up in the table. It was at the same
time stipulated that the ordinary or as it
was then called deferred capital should
cease to be “deferred” when £6OOO stood
to thq credit of the reserve fund; and as
this amount has arrived, all shares now
rank alike in all respects.
The co. started in Melbourne, but pre-
sently found that it had better put up a
plant and keep a stock in Sydney as well.
Hence considerable changes in the assets: —
1910, 1914. 1915. 1916.
Premises .. £4,604 £11,184 £11,252 £11,645
Plant.. .. 10,244 14,193 13,498 13,369
Stock.. .. 6,833 11,166 10,756 20,381
Book debts . . 6,029 8,056 7,694 9,151
Let’s put it this way. In the six years tfie
co. has increased its solid assets (that is,
assets apart from goodwill) by £25,844; and
of that £8270 is represented by new capital
and £10,657 by new debt, making a total
of £19,127. That leaves £6917 to represent
the improvement in the co.’s position in
six years—profit, that is to say, made and
not divided. But that proposition depends
upon the valuation of the stock, machinery
and other assets. If they have been taken
at cost (or under where they couldn’t be
realised at cost) the position is as stated.
On that record the little co. looks very good.
It will have its set-backs, no doubt; and
probably one isn’t far off. Its sales depend
largely oh the volume of the general retail
business of the country; and there is going
to be a serious drop there before long.
The Bellambi sCoal Co. (N.S.W.) —the
last fpw years of a remarkably prosperous
concern: —
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1907.. 174 p.c. = £30,625 £77,351
£25,000 transferred to capital . . 52,351
1908. . £61,936 174 p.c. = 35,000 £26,936 79,287
1909.. 53,879 15 „„ 36,250- 17,629 96,916
1910.. 57,345 124 „ ~ 31,250 26,095 123,011
1911.. 73,961 174 „„ 43,750 30,211 153.222
1912.. 61,028 174 „„ 43,750 17,278 170,500
£150,000 transferred to capital . . 20,500
1913.. 48,770 10 p.c. = 40,000 8,770 29,270
1914.. 53,180 10 ~ ~ 40,000 13,180 42,450
1915.. 37,268 5 ~ ~ 20,000 17,268 59,718
1916.. 33,910 5 ~,, 20,000 13,910 73,628
This co. has a fine bunkering connection and
is the most prosperous of the N. S. Wales
South Coast coal propositions. Besides
having the coal and a very large area to
draw it. from, it has the right people behind
it. No doubt because of these things itffiad
. a great vogue in the share market. People
saw that very, sweet share bonuses had been
distributed, and, as in the case of Sydney
Ferries and Sydney Daily Telegraph, some
of them expected that sort of thing to go
on for ever. What these people didn’t
notice was that exes, were increasing tre-
mendously, and that with every bonus addi-
tion to the capital the usual dividend called
foi; more money. Had the old 12| p.c.
been paid in the last couple of years,
there would have been practically nothing
for formal reserves. These reserves, by the
way, include insurance funds.
Still, in spite of much higher costs, Bel-
lambi continues a very profitable concern.
True, what the actual profits of a coal-
mining co. are it is very hard to say. Most
of such cos. put by little or nothing to P lo '
vide for return of capital represented by
their wasting assets, and usually the divi-
dend isn’t a true dividend at all. In this
case, though, there is a nice bit over and
above the dividend. Look at this :?=-
1905. 1910. 1915. 1916 ‘
Liabilities . . . . £39,445 £12,017 £30,947 £31,32-
Assets—*
Mines, plant, „„„
steamers . . 209,345 265,069 289,177 -86,234
Stores and stock 4,591 7,334 12,809 11,140
Liquid assets .. 55,183 131,375 198,680 217,5/7
In the six years since 1910 the liquid assets
have increased by £86,202 and the liabilities
by £19,305, making the growth of liquid
assets £66,897. In addition a lot of money
—this paper can’t even guess how much*— *
has been spent on plant, etc. For the past
two years there has been a net improvement
of very nearly £35,000, although the sale of
one of the co.’s colliers may be responsible
for some of that. After making every reason-
able deduction it is doubtful whether any
other Australian coal co. can show better
figures. The net liquid assets now repre-
sent just upon half the capital (£400.000) ;
they consist almost entirely of high-class
public securities, mostly Commonwealth and
State bonds.
The Fourth Victoria Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne)
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1905.. £7,640 6p.c.= £4,542 £2OB £2,890 £27,473
1906.. 8,768 6 „„ 4,549 1061 3,158 30,631
1907.. 9,496 7 „„ 5,289 838 3,369 34,000
1908.. 10,711 7 „„ 5,332 5095 284 34,284
1909.. 11,566 7 „„ 5,392“ 3767 2,407 36,691
1910.. 11,988 8 „„ 6,241 3824 1,923 38,614
1911.. 11,026 8 „„ 6,330 1724 2,972 41,586
1912.. 27,886 8 „„ 6,705 1000 20,181 61,767
1913.. 20,206 8 „ „ 9,912 1757 8,537 70,304
1914.. 20,550 8 „ „ 10,006 2034 8,510 78,814
1915.. 21,034 8 ~„ 9,747 3248 8,039 86,853
1916.. 18,298 8 „ „ .9,359 1809 7,130 93,983
This co., besides carrying on its ordinary
business, has been a sort of old bone mer-
chant. As derelicts of the Melbourne land
boom have got tired of winding themselves
up, this co. has bought what remained of
them and in some cases issued capital to
do it with. Hence the rapid growth of
figures in this table :
1900. 1914. 1915. 1910.
Permanent capital £72,741. £115,046 1115,046 £115,046
Investing capital 28,003 10,344 1,989 1.548
Deposits, etc. . . 74,334 -435,809 380,546 346,207
Advances, etc. . . 89,345 542,427 493,585 458,523
Foreclosed proper-
ties . . . . 49,935 1,358 1,684 863
Other freeholds . . 44,478 103,666 97,190 .103,923
The co. has strong people behind it, including
the National Mutual Life office, which is the
biggest shareholder and is well represented
on the Board ; so it has no difficulty in get-
ting what money it wants. It is still open to
do ordinary building society business, of
course, and no doubt its connection with the
National Mutual is a big help to it in that
connection ; but the disposal of the old bones
has been a very important part of its opera-
tions so far. The heavy State borrowing of
the last few years has largely increased
property values, and the co. has seized the
opportunity to get rid of practically all its
old foreclosures. Meantime, while no doubt
it has been making some new advances, it has
in two years got in nearly £100,000: and that
ought to put it in an excellent position to
meet the slump in values which will probably
come presently. The big trouble that struck
the Melbourne building societies in the
’nineties was that they had so many new
advances, on which very few repayments had
been made. It won’t be so this time.
As to the future, there doesn’t appear to be
any prospect of big building-society profits,
because State banks, etc., keep rates of inter-
est down on advances for house-purchase pur-
poses. But the co. has a big reserve; and,
assuming that this won’t be badly cut into to
make losses of principal good, it ought to
make a reasonable dividend of 7 or 8 p.c.
easy. Capital and reserves combined have
to earn only 4A p.c. to yield enough to pay
an 8 p.c. div. ; and considering the size of
the business the management charges are
extremely modest, which, of course, is another
great help in poor times.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
* Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1910.. £648 9 p.c. = £478 £l7O £7,725
Sept., 1910.. 968 9 „„ 472 496 8,221
Mar., 1911.. 950 9 „,, 472 478 8,699
Sept., 1911.. 1009 9 ~,, 472 537 9,236
Mar., 1912.. 1071 9 „„ 472 599 9,835
Sept., 1912.. 1014 10 „„ 501 453 10,288
Mar., 1913.. 996 10 „ „ 550 446 10,734
, Ql o f 902 10 „ „ 545 357 11,091
sept., iji/3. . j Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,591
Mar., 1914. . 1015 10 p.e. = 551 464 11,055
Sent 1914 f 927 10 » » 550 377 n -432
sept., iyi4. . j Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Mar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
Sent 1915 l 891 15 ” ” 868 23 n ' l72
sept., iyio. . | Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Sept., 1916.. 882 15 „„ 850 32 10,855
The dividend nowadays includes income tax
—the successor to the old Tasmanian divi-


The British Westinghouse Electric 8i Mfg. Co., Ltd.
W estinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
ĥ
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 10,000 Kilowatts.
ħ
ll)0U$f
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
The Australian General Electric Co., corner Went-
worth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney; corner
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, place
their services at the -disposal of all those requiring'
information which will enable them to readily select
the most advantageous material used in the construc-
tion of overhead-trolley systems, and track return,
for electric haulage in mining plants. We here men-
tion a few of the devices in which the above company
specialise. Rail bonds, trolley-wire supports, sus-
pensions, clamping ears, mechanical splicing sleeves,
strain insulators, turnbuckles, trolley frogs, drills,
etc. All of this apparatus has been especially de-
signed and manufactured to meet every possible
condition of mining service. Write for particu-
lars.— Advt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced . men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
"the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. id.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
* * * *
When considering the economy, there can be no
satisfactory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe.
The ideal pressure pipe, manufactured in all sizes
from 3in. to 14ft. diameter. Send for illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company
Limited (head office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. Factories: Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.; Port Adelaide, S.A. —-
Advt.
* * * *
Melbourne Accountant, lately returned from Cali-
fornia, will undertake personally negotiate industrial
or mining - business in United States early in 1917.
Address “Negotiator,” care Bulletin, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* “ * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
* * » *
- IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. — Advt.
/£ are Born to
tall* BCHEfUS.
Fire, Matine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tlie 1.0. A.
T ie INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Gross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 (t
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 <f
£783,611 0 6
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
dend tax. When the disbursements are made
all that is left to lay by is £32 for the six
months, or £lB3 for the year. But the
reserves were already very substantial in
proportion to the capital of £lO,OOO. And
the risks are small, assuming that £8993 lent
on mortgage is well secured. The other
assets are unexceptionable. The progress of
Tasmania is very slow ; but that of this co.
should be a bit faster, because there must
still be a lot of work done by the untrained,
unsecured private trustee which the profes-
sional trustee could do better. And evi-
dently the co. is gradually getting this busi-
ness. Two years ago, when the figures were
first available, the estates in hand were
valued at £757,104. To-day the co. is hand-
ling £932,382.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1906.. £950 8 p.c.=£sl6 £434 £4693
Apl., 1907.. 1014 10 „ „ 645 369 5062
Oct., 1907.. 655 10 „ „ 646 9 5071
Apl., 1908.. 664 10 „ „ 646 18 5089
Oct., 1908.. 757 10 ~ „ 646 111 5200
Apl., 1909.. 696 10 „ „ 646 50 5250
Loss.
Oct., 1909.. 276 8„ „ 516 —445 S
Profit.
Apl., 1910.. 647 8„ „ 516 131 4589
Oct., 1910.. 614 8.,, „ 516 98 4687
Apl., 1911.. 1003 10 „ „ 646 357 5044
Oct., 1911.. 935 10 „ „ 646 289 5333
Oct., 1912.. 1333 10 „ „ 1292 41 5374
Oct., 1913.. 1698 10 „ „ 1292 406 5780
Oct., 1914.. 2199 10 „ „ 1292 907 6687
Oct., 1915.. 2067 10 ~ „ 1292 775 7462
Oct., 1916.. 2276 10 „ „ 1292 984 8446
Let’s see how a Mont de Piete feels after
over two years of war
0ct.,’13. 0ct.,’16.
Liabilities (Deposits, etc.). £19,349 £20,635
Advances and stock . . 33,107 35,889
Other property . . . . 6,020 7,238
The gross interest earnings and profit on
sales have gone up from £10,793 to £12,163
—that is, from 32 p.c.. to 34 p.c. per annum
calculated on the value of advances and stock
alone —but interest paid and exes, have
gone from £7747 to £9073, which means a
rise from 23 to 25 p.c., calculated also on
the value of the advances and stock alone.
So it doesn’t look as though uncle —this sort
of uncle, anyway—is making very much out
of the war. It is costing him 2 p.c. more,
calculated on his outstanding loans and
pledges, to run his business; and on the
same basis he is getting 2 p.c. more. But
as his turnover is a bit better, he can, while
cutting the same crust for himself, put a
rather bigger slice away for the rats.
N. S. Wales Mines Department has been
inquiring into a recent report that an old
bore in the Grafton district showed indica-
tions of mineral oil. The bore was put
down to 3698 ft. under Government autho-
rity, and abandoned 14 years ago. An
inspector recently visited it and took
samples of gas, water and sediment from it.
“These,” says the Under-Sec., “were ex-
haustively tested by the Departmental anal-
yst, who reports absolutely no trace of oil
in them. The gas was found on analysis to
consist of methane, or marsh gas, which,
while it forms the principal constituent of
natural gas, is also freely discharged from
coal and coaly strata where no oil exists.
Apropos methane, Government Geologist
Game says :—-
It mig-ht be pointed out that whilst natural gas
and oil are intimately associated in oil-fields, there
are innumerable occurrences of natural gas without
such an association. The gas discharged from coal
and coaly strata is formed of a considerable propor-
tion of the same hydrocarbon-methane or marsh gas
—constituting the greater proportion of natural gas.
It is, moreover, a common product of decomposition
of vegetation buried under mud and water —especi-
ally in stagnant pools.
This emphatic declaration with regard to
methane is of importance because it has
been represented that the alleged presence
of this gas at Robe (S.A.) is a sure indica-
tion that there is mineral oil in the neigh-
borhood.
* * * *
“W.A.M.” : Some .time ago when I wrote
to The Bulletin and complained that
because a dead friend had taken £lOO of in-
scribed Stock, instead of bonds, in the War
Loan, his executor would have to pay £lB
legal expenses to obtain it, “Six-and-Eight”
suggested that someone had pulled my leg.
Although my lawyer’s anticipations were not
realised, the bill was fairly heavy. The
letters of administration have now been
granted by Mr. Justice Chubb, in Chambers,
and here are particulars of costs: —
Advertisements . . ..£22 6
Certificate of death .. .. 2 0
Our costs . . . . ..550
Brisbane agent’s costs . . 7 15 6
£l5 5 0
It is up to the Federal Treasurer to see that
in the next War Loan Act provision is
made, as in the Savings Banks, for small
amounts to be obtainable by an executor
making a statutory declaration.
* * * *
The Wild Cat sees one of its friends off:
Died on Christmas morn John W. Tilley, one
of the most thorough among the younger generation
of Australian mining engineers. After getting through
hig course at Sydney Uni. he had practical experi-
ence at Charters Towers, Mt. Morgan, Broken Hill
and Cobar, and he did also much mine-valuing-.
The Bulletin had the utmost confidence in his
judgment —his uprightness and honesty were unim-
peachable—and it was he who put and kept this
paper on the right track with regard to the Ardlethan
tin field and the Bullfinch group. Having specialised
in tin, Jack Tilley was sent by an English co. to
an Upper Nigerian tin proposition. There he con-
tracted malaria, and was in London recuperating
when the war broke out. Finding it impossible to
return to the mines, he later on came back to Aus-
tralia, where he put up a splendid fight against the
disease. But it beat him in the end. He was
married, and the son of William Tilley, of the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia’s efforts to find a new
mine in Westralia have so far been unsuc-
cessful. For months past a number of pros-
pectors have been fossicking on its behalf
in the vicinity of Mount Lucky, near Laver-
ton. but as results have fallen far short; of
local prophecies, preparations are being-
made to go elsewhere.
Lancefield (W.A.) is at last paying good
dividends. For years money was poured
into its plant and workings, and sharehold-
ers were assured at every annual meeting by
Govett, Hoover and others that everything
was going to be all right. But everything
continued to turn out all wrong, and after
several reconstructions the bailiff took pos-
session. One of the biggest creditors, a local
wood-fuel co., bought it, and finding that the
mining and treatment of refractory ore was
not in its line sold to a small syndicate of
mining men headed by Frank Moss and
George Ridgway. Profits were earned
almost from the jump, and now amount to a
few thousands a month.
* * * *
Westralian tributors are clamoring for a
law to protect them from owners. At pre-
sent as much as 40 p.c. of the gross yield
is being exacted, and where there are no
agreements the owners, principally cos., are
said to be always lying in wait for the
tributor to strike something good and then
push him out and work it themselves. In
many cases tribute parties have to fork out
Is. 6d. per week per man in advance for
insurance and 3s. per week per man to be
hauled up and down the shaft, and if they
get any gold at all the royalty is figured out
on its gross value irrespective of whether
wages have been made or not. Another
grievance put forward by the Kalgoorlie tri-
butors is that only an 85 per extraction is
paid fpr. Yet how many metallurgists would
keep their jobs if they could not show a
better gold recovery than that? A further
complaint is that only £4 per oz. is paid the
tributor for fine gold, and he wants to know
what better right has the co. to the balance
than he has.
After a 10 years’ struggle Ingliston Ex-
tended. on the Paddy’s Flat line of reef,
Meekatharra (W.A.), has, for a time at
least, given it up. Many thousands of
ounces of gold were extracted, but the co.
was never able to give shareholders any-
thing. Pending negotiations for a third re-
construction the mine has been let on
tribute.
* * * *
The mining crowd in Alec Peacock’s office
have again got nervy, or they wouldn’t
squeak as they do whenever a bit of a yarn
goes round about Edna Deeps. They lost
sleep over the story that prehistoric gnomes
had rolled slabs of granite into the shoot
of gold-stone. They worrited over the
report that the shaft didn’t hit a full face
of stone when it ought to. They had hardly
begun to dream that Nature had kicked the
shoot back south-west under the shaft when
a Mrs. Gamp gave them nightmare by say-
ing that water was creeping into the shaft.
So long as Bill Stuckey could cement it
out, that yarn needn't have caused anyone
to go and have two quick drinks; but it
did evoke another denial, notwithstanding a
solemn declaration that no more petty cash
was to be spent in contradicting bear yarns.
And now, at the very latest, some more
money has had to be taken out of the till
to find out from manager Stuckey if the
gossip that surveyor Macartney had re-
ported adversely to the mine was another
piece of bear exaggeration. No one seems
to have known that Macartney was in the
workings, but Stuckey tacked another lie
to the office counter by wiring a stout nega-
tive.
* * * *
From E. C. Dyason :—-
Re the proposed amalgamation of Bendigo Mines
and the par. (B. 14/12/’l6) questioning the right
of the promoters to one seat on the Arbitration
Board which is to give findings as to the interests of
the various cos. in the proposed scheme. My
recommendations are tentative only; yet I did not
make them without reasons. I had the choice of
suggesting:—
(1) An entirely independent body ; ,
(2) One consisting entirely of those interested; or
(3) A mixed Board consisting of interested and
disinterested parties.
I rejected No. 1 because such a Board, lacking
perhaps, in spite of evidence before it, a sufficient
knowledge of local intricacies, might fail to carry
weight with the. cos. to which its decisions must be
referred, and because of difficulties in getting a
suitable personnel. There is scarcely anyone with
knowledge who is not interested. No. 2 appeared to
me unsuitable because of a lack of sufficient disin-
terested weighting. I therefore suggested a mixed
Board with two members nominated by the Govern-
ment, one nominated by the local Chamber of Mines
to represent the owners, and one by the promoters
whose job it is to find the necessary capital and
who will have to see that prospective new share-
holders get a fair share of the profits. They also,
as projectors of the movement, have responsibilities
to the Federal Treasurer in regard to the respective
allotments. The last member suggested—a nominee
of the Bendigo Stock Exchange—-would be represen-
tative of both present and prospective shareholders.
The point isn’t really of great importance.
The big thing is how to constitute the Board
so that its recommendations will be most
likely to be accepted by the cos. The
Bulletin certainly shouldn’t regard
Dyason’s proposal as seriously damaging to
the scheme, even if it were 50 times more
offensive.
The financial proposals of the Bendigo
mining scheme have been published. The
co. at first proposed to register under the
limited liability Act, and this frightened
shareholders. It is since announced that
the co. will be registered as a no-liability
concern with a capital in 2,000,000 shares
of ss. One million shares fully paid to ss.
will be given to shareholders in the present
cos., their allocation to be settled by arbi-
trators. These shares will be freely sale-
able and transferable. Of this million the
promoters will get a good parcel in exchange
for the shares recently bought by them. The
second million shares will be divided by
issuing 400,000 at ss. to the public, reserv-
ing 400,000 and giving the promoters
200,000 fully paid. The promoters have
had the 400,000 shares to the public under-
written and also guaranteed up to ss. This
is something quite new in no liability co.
finance, for it means that if any shares
afre forfeited by the public the guarantors
must pay the calls so that the co. will not
suffer by having forfeited shares thrown
on its hands. Ultimately the 400,000 shares
will yield £lOO,OOO cash capital to start the
new concern going. The promoters take no
cash and have invested a good deal of their
own money in the purchase of forfeited
shares in existing cos. in order to obtain
control. How much it is not possible to
say. Bendigo shareholders through the
local Stock Exchange .express themselves
satisfied with the terms. But £lOO,OOO will
not go very far in modernising the mines;
it may be taken for granted the reserved
400,000 shares will be sold before the few
mines which the new proprietary proposes
to work are properly equipped.
* * * *
The Read and Rosebery Mining Co. has
got its special leases through the Speck’s
Parliament and has asked the State Govern-
ment to provide 25,000 hydro-electric horse-
power. The Government hopes to be able
to get it from the King and Franklin rivers
and is now trying to find out what the
scheme would cost. It is also negotiating
to buy out its co-mortgagee in the Zeehan
Smelters, the Deutsche Bank; but so far
its partner opens his mouth too wide. If
they come to an agreement the. State will
probably pass the smelters on to the Read-
Rosebery Co.
* * * *
From August, 1912, to the present time, a
little over four years, the Hampden has pro-
duced in round figures 27,000 tons of blister
copper. In 1912 reserves were computed at
24,880 tons dopper; in 1916 they contain
approximately 22,000 tons, or only 2880
tons less. But reserves now include a fairly
large quantity of concentrating ore, so the
trial run of 'the mill in March will be in-
teresting. The Hampden Co. is still a buyer
of stray copper leases. The Magnet and the
Una, acquired from the Leichhardt Co., are
the latest purchases. The Hampden was
very lucky in its early purchase of the
Duchess, and the Trikelano also looks like a
good bargain.
* * * *
Williams Fancy, Berringa (Vic.), earned
£6596 from its last six months’ work and
spent £7009 to get it. The nest-egg put by
when divs. were rolling in is paying differ-
ences just now. Stone runs a shade _ over
the sdwt. mark and would have paid if
Hansen hadn’t carried out heavy develop-
ment. His scheme is to prospect the old
Kangaroo reef from No. 4 level, and the
market is on the qui vive for a decent
strike on that line. The boss has had one
go from No. 7 level at the Surprise reef,
but only got poor spurs and veins. Still
he intends to use up more cash here by
pushing out north on the reef to see if the
shoots overhead live down in that direction.
On the Fancy lode he has to get away
from a break, but he wants something bet-
ter than the 3dwt. stone he has been driving
on. At Berringa every mine has petered out
below 1000 ft., so Hansen has more chance
of a strike in the higher formations than he
has at depth.
*** N _ *
The Junction gold-dredging show at
Bright (Vic.) has outlived most of its neigh-
bors. The astute William Quick collared
a big block of land long before the dredging
value of the Ovens Valley had become estab-
lished. Even now he has 3J years’ work in
sight, and with Tewksbury blown out of
competition by sludge boards, he expects to
be able to get hold of some more blocks and
rake in further profits. These profits don’t
run into big money, but with only 10:000
shares to pay on a profit of £lBO5 for the
last half-year with cash in hand enabled 3s.
per share to be pouched for the term. That
return came from 1.47 gr. ground: it took
296,000 cub. yds. to yield gold worth £3600.
Expenses aren’t covered nowadays by £6O
per week, for wear and tear on elderly plant
gobbles a lot of cash.
To date, Ruby Tin (Tas.) has put
£18,277 into the pockets of Andrew Sten-
house and his pals. But the sixpences don’t
come with the same speed as of old, though
lib. dirt still goes into the sluice-boxes. The
eastern side of the flat having been cleaned
out, the nozzle is now at work on the west-
ern ground, where it can go straight ahead
for several years. Broken ground has still
to be handled, but with the face ahead of a
big lode formation values ought to go above
the lib. margin. If so, New Ruby will pay
as of old, provided there’s the water-supply.
Perth Stock Exchange, which meets every
week-day but has not recorded more than
half a dozen sales within the recollection of
the oldest inhabitant, held its annual meet- 5
ing on December 7. A braw Scot, Donald
Carmichael, was re-elected president, and
the other half-dozen members present elected
themselves to the other positions.
* * * *
Old Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.), which
for years stood at 30s. in the market, has
this year paid 15s. a share; and that brings
the total in the last 10 years to £3 ss. 6d.
But it is an uneven business, with no divi-
dends at all in 1910 and only Is. in 1911.


Heelings
Est !8!8.
Co
en
en
OHEERIKGV
eherStbSuiw
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
UMP
Agents:
Bennett § Barkell
Ltd.,
124-132 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
y The Trusty Triumph is
f a mount for all occasions.
It is absolutely reliable as
proved by its unparalleled
success in the Great
European War.
Triumph Cycle Co., Ltd.,
Coventry, England.
h
ĥ
MAKE YOUR OWN COUGH MIXTURE.
A pint of the finest quality remedy for
coughs, colds and throat troubles —equal to
12s. worth of ordinary fnixtures —may be
made in a few minutes by adding 2s. worth
of Hean’s Essence to water and sweetening.
Sir Rider Haggard, the famous novelist, who
recently visited Australia, wrote, on the eve
of his departure: “You will be interested to
know that I am taking a supply of Hean's
Essence away with me. Upon my return to
England I shall be pleased to bring its merits
under the notice of my friends.” Hean's
Essence is obtainable from all leading chem-
ists and stores. — Advt.
PAULINE et CIE
announce Special Great Reductions in
all their MODEL MILLINERY, etc.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
SINCE
1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney. December 26, 1916.
Mr Dear Artni, —
The almost-extinct garden party was re-
vived for the benefit of the State-school
teachers, fresh from their annual c-orroboree.
His Ex. came to town with Lady Edeline
and two or three daughters to give the glad
hand to the pedagogues. On a gorgeous
summer afternoon, even without a band to
cheer the spirits, a garden party is not alto-
gether futile. The company straggled out
on to the flowered lawns in front of Govern-
ment House, and when hard-pressed filled in
time by scattering compliments on Sydney’s
big blue pond.
The eldest daughter floated like a slim
grey cloud in misty pearl grey. The Sam
Griffith dame and the Charles Mackellar lady
were amongst the Chosen at Lady Edeline’s
tea-table. The Andy Stuart dame, in cool
summer drapery, and the Peter Board house-
hold were close to the official throng. Two
men who can keep on smiling—Cann,
M.L.A., the new amateur Railway Commis-
sioner, and Judge Backhouse—hobnobbed
with their pals on the tennis lawn. Justice
Street’s impressive presence decorated the
State tea-table. Dr. Cecil Purser —on the
Senate and therefore somewhere in the
Education orbit —brought his wife and pretty
daughter from Wahroonga. Premier Holman
came in later. Under the brim of a straw
hat he looked like the young man who might
have come to stir things up with a sonata
of his own composition, or a lightning-sketch
artist wlio’d forgotten his portfolio. Miss
Annie Parkes, daughter of the old political
lion, and Mrs. McGowen strolled together
amongst the scarlet salvia. General Finn,
on crutches, had to keep his damaged foot
up. Aide d’Apice and Secretary Budge
’passed round the cake.
Mrs. Black, the kindly missus of the lately-
retired Chief Secretary, came back the other
day, after a health-trip to Europe. The
usual clatter of tea-cups welcomed her at
the Australia, with Mrs. Holman to ask if
it was quite all right.
Do you remember, in the old happy-go-
lucky days, when naval officers had chiefly
rlance-engagements to think about, popular
Captain Dick Purefoy Fitzgerald? He had
to drop the Fitzgerald when the family
timber and shooting came his way. But
it’s the same breezy sailor who is now the
Admiral Purefoy recently appointed to the
British Legation at the Hague—the place
of kite-flying.
The handsome Joseph Ward lady (M.L.)
was amongst the confetti a few weeks ago
when a Christchurch girl, Marjorie Phillips,
walked away with Lieut. K. S. Williams.
The groom was shadowed by his mates of
the Canterbury infantry when he led his
girl out of Christ Church, near Hyde Park,
London. Her frock, by the way, of silk
brocade (same,as grandma liked in the long
ago), had the last moment’s modern touch —
one immense true-lover’s knot with a gar-
land of orange blossoms as a climax.
Governor Strickland had to say most of
the nice things at the opening of the Edith
Cavell rest-home for nurses. This is the
roomy mansion at Summer Hill given by the
W. E. Shaws. The Shaws, like Tom Dibbs
and his wife, have surrendered a home in
which they lived for 30 years—a harder thing
to part with than a new stucco villa. Sur-
geon-Colonel Stokes, P.M.0., totted up the
number of Australian army nurses who will,
after the war, be glad to put their feet up
and rest a bit at the Cavell home. Unless a
big percentage are snapped up by admiring
soldiers on the other side, the nest will have
about 300 on its books.
- Edith Gore Holdship, a relative of the lady
who used to be. Mrs. Willie Mitchell, was
married in England the other week. The
man was Arthur A. Brown —a Billjim, of
course.
From recent opera scenes and from Mrs.
Boult’s drama, “The Buckle o’ His Shoe,”
one gathers a few sartorial hints. Very
high leather boots were worn by the buck
of the 18th century on nearly every occasion
except his funeral. Boots that engulfed the
legs and wobbled like a blue-jacket’s bell
trousers —only the wobble was at the thighs.
Thus Monty Stephen, rather dry and legal
as the hero, the Earl of Chesney, was almost
hidden in his own top-boots while he defended
his home preserves against the bad Spanish
Admiral Gajiado. The latter was also booted
nearly to the waist.
Mrs. Boult, a slender streak of tireless
energy, writes plays while other women are
trying on new hats or wondering if the
washing’s coming home before Christmas.
In the latest effort —of course to help our
soldiers’ orphans when the stockings are
baited for Santa Claus —the Sydney woman
has produced a play that is playable. “The
Buckle o’ His Shoe,” which turns on the
siege of Gibraltar, only wants to be stroked
by a stage manager and played by a pro-
fessional cast to make interesting drama.
Queenie Boult took the heroine’s part in
the recent amateur performance at the
Theatre Royal. The vital spark of the
show was a clever youngster, Cecil Haines,
in the child’s part. The kiddy comes from
Maoriland. Colin Crane’s fine voice did its
best with some incidental songs written by
May Summerbelle. A crowded house made
a good cheque.
The new Baronet Leonard Lucas Tooth
has a new girl. Oh, no, not that sort! Later on
she will call him daddy. He is a ma'jor in the
British Army, and the younger brother of the
soldier who was killed at Ypres. The new
Tooth makes a great-aunt of Mrs. Cecil
Stephen, of Sydney, who is a sister of the
late Lucas.
Poor old Billjim nowadays has little
chance of being returned to Australia unless
he has his head knocked off. Even a patched-
up Billjim is so valuable, in the absence of
proper reinforcements, that, battered though
he may be, he is kept on the other side to
convalesce. Hence there is nothing for manv
of the Australian convalescent homes to do.
That large, luxurious nest, the Octagon, out
Darling Point way, lent by the Holts, is
therefore now sheltering its owners again.
Thev came back to their own hearthstone
simply because the Red Cross said : “Thank
you kindly, but we have no further use for
it.” Ardenbraught, handed over by Mrs.
Cecil Stephen, also rolls down its blinds and
gets out of business as a cobbler’s paradise
wliere worn Billjim could be half-soled and
wholly healed.
The teachers’ pow-wow over, and the in-
fants’ classes kissed good-bye, Miss M. M.
Simpson went off to Tasmania last week. If
you look at her pleasant face in this photo.
y OU will guess that sue carries the teacher’s
trade as easily as a pack of feathers. There
are school-marms who can smile at the end
of a hard year’s graft—and here is the Mark
Tapley of the Blackfriars Teachers’ College,
Some time ago this lover of children was
sent to Italy by the Department to inquire
into the Montessori method and see its fount,
Dr. Maria, pour her lessons-made-easy into
the infant minds. Miss Simpson has grafted
all that is best in the new system on to the
Froebel stock—the original Kindergarten
training which is a mid-Victorian relative of
the more modern scheme. And she is still
receptive. As principal of the Montessori
Practice School (Blackfriars) and lecturer
on education, she was one of the first to
grasp the merits of the Lilian Ellis 1915
phonetic system. So there’s reading without
tears in the Montessori child-garden,
What becomes of the V.a.D.’s? Thrown
out of work? Not they—bless ’em! They’re
trotting round with suit-cases and clean
aprons to help in Red Cross kitchens or keep
the home-fires burning in jam and pickle
depots.
Mrs. Bob Anderson Is to join her strenu-
ous Brigadier-General in London shortly,
He is the commercial man who went from
Sydney to give a hand with the business
affairs of our army on the other side, and
the authorities decorated him with the impos-
ing label to go on with. Months and months
ago Mrs. Anderson had got ready to go to
Egypt; then the blow fell—no ladies
admitted !
Even the usually dreamy girl art-students
noticed that there was a good deal of rain
falling during the early part of December,
So Dattilo Rubbo’s pupils conspired together
to give him a new umbrella. The great
surprise was preceded by lunch in the Rowe-
street studio. In the interval between soft
drinks, Lister Lister, on behalf of the dam-
sels present, handed over the gold-topped
brolly. For the first time on record words
failed the ebullient Rubbo.
They’re all doing it! Miss Fraser —daugh-
ter of School Inspector Donald —got up a
moonlight dance for the 34th Battalion the
other night at Sandringham. There were
more than fairies present, and £32 10s. fell
into the comforts’ fund. The girl’s uncle,
Malcolm Lamb, is O.C. of the 34th, so I
fancy he’ll send her a kiss by post for the
Christmas party.
As usual. Mrs. Harry Rickards sent out
1000 invitations for a Christmas dinner in
the Town Hall basement. The guests are
supposed to present one word of introduc-
tion—Poverty.
It’s quite 10 weeks ago since Frank
Bladen’s widow married Captain Harcourt
Douglas Brown in London, but I don’t
think the news is generally known here-
abouts.
The Soldiers’ Club, with Dr. Mary Booth
in charge, had a Christmas tree for lonely
Kangaroos. Mabel Grant Cooper was Mrs.
Santa for the occasion, and her lady helps
committed the usual piracy for weeks, raid-
ing every male relative for his last ounce of
baccy and a new pipe.
It is a poor mission that does no one any
good. A mountain village recently came
through much soul-searching, during the visit
of Parson Crotty, a John Storm orator who
explored the local conscience for about a
week and audited the debit and credit
account. When the hamlet settled down
again it called a meeting and presented its
own homely cleric with a new cassock. The
soul-searching had unearthed, amongst other
minor sins, the fact that there was a large
patch on the shabby old gown of the good
man who carried beef-tea and very gentle
admonition round from January to December.
Majorie Quinn, journalist Pat’s only
daughter, sends a line from N’York : —-
Eva Mylott’s concert last week in the iEolian Hall
was a big success. Needless to say, Australians were
there to swell the encores. Mrs. Hugh Ward and
Amy Castles; Frank Coffee (who bought his ticket at
the door and wandered in like a casual Australian) ;
Kathleen and Rita Narelle, daughters of songstress
Marie; and Hilda Aitken, who used to accompany
singers in her Sydney days—these were in the crowd.
Eva’s bronze hair was coiled in shining bands around
her head, and glinted in harmony with a mermaidy
sea-green velvet gown. “Gee,” said a ’Murkan lady,
“she’s a stunner!” Amy Castles is staying with sisters
Dolly and Eileen. With Percy Grainger’s golden
locks at the piano in the same city and Frances Alda
warbling in Caruso’s ear at the Metropolitian Opera
House, Australians are making themselves heard in
New York.
When the arguments are over as to who
owns which and what is to he done about it.
Miss Evans will take over the Domain Anzae
Buffet. She is the capable Mosman Y.A.D.
who mothered the first such crib for soldiers
in this city l —in the cave under the old Edu-
cation Building that was lately carted away
in brick and mortar remnants to the dust-
heap.
Titian-haired Mrs. Scot-Skirving, hand-
some wife of the Sydney surgeon, is still in
England. They lost a son in France early
in the year.
Young Fitzpatrick, son of the talkative
member who is a Minister at ’last, is back
from the Sand Heap, on sick-leave. He is
wearing the pale blue, and white badge of
that Light Horse lot which helped to aston-
ish the Turks in the desert.
Saw the other day the kind of mountain
home that a tired lawyer longs to retire
to sometimes —the big. brown bungalow just
built at Leura by Chief Justice Cullen. It
hangs on the green eyebrows of a lovely
gorge—the Valley of the Waters, away from
the track of the holiday tripper, with blue
hills and infinity for its front view. The
Cullens are passionate lovers of Australian
bushland —witness the carefully-preserved
native trees and flowers in their Mosman
garden. Before the blinds are up in the
mountain eyrie, tall waratahs, red-canped
sentinels, stand at attention in the grounds
that are still wild as the birds in the adja-
cent gully.
Over in Sydney for a few weeks to see her
husband in “The Land of Promise” is Mrs.
Arthur Styan. She used to be Clarice
Masters, a handsome Melbourne • girl who
had a taste of the footlights a few years
back.
Sister Elsa Kaye was married in London
this month to a Sydney man, Harold Jacobs.
Old soldier Wallack, who is probably
being retired from the Permanent Artillery,
is, so it’s said, taking up the simple life as
an extra A.D.C. to his Ex. If the old Artil-
leryman is driven to thus earn a crust as
a Gentleman Help at this time of day, it’s
no credit to the Defence Department.
Hitherto Permanent soldiers have not been
even turned out to grass when the chopper
fell. They have just been turned out —to
starve, unless some friend could offer them
a picking.
A man's view
Amazing - the way the feminine conventions change.
Not so long ago girls put on the warpaint seeretb
in their bedrooms; next they retired moaestlv to
corners to daub and powder ; now every one of them
carries a complete kit of nose- and lip-paint, and
fills in the conversational pauses bj' “making- up
publicly. I wish I had the courage to shave on the
morning boat! Some of them tittivatc so often
throughout the day that they are practically buried
alive in toilet rubbish by lights-out. Last night I
went home on a late ferry full of yawning citizens,
and one indefatigable mass of fashion who was within
15 minutes of her couch was still smearing it on in
front of the tiny mirror in her vanity ease. The
youth for whose benefit it was being done looked
or. dully. What’s the remedy for dyehards of this
sort ?
December has resounded with the wail of
fiddles and the vocalists’ search for Lost
Chords at Soldiers’ Entertainments. The
committee begs, borrows or merely pays
the exes. During the year that is almost
dust £620 has been handed over as out-of-
pocket exes, to the music-makers. Mrs.
George Earp arranges the items and steers
the committee as president.
Sydney contralto Eileen Boyd, widowed
by the war, meant to come hack this New
Year to her native State. But a rush of
concert engagements in England—where
they keep up the spirits of the wounded sol-
diers in weary days of convalescence —makes
her revoke.
Word comes that Mrs. Martin Donohoe,
who has been keeping as near her war cor-
respondent as the times allow, has gone to
Florence.
lion. sec. H. W. Edney, of the Aus-
tralian War Contingent, London, sends a
ream of information. Its hospitality card
invites Australian Billjim when he’s in
England on furlough to send his address
to the secretary, 59 Palace-street, London.
After doing that he can decide-which offer
of private British hospitality he’ll accept.
Another clever fledgling, Eadith Sullivan,
has had a good-bye concert in the Conserva-
torium. She’s the youthful pianist, a pupil
of Gordon Lavers, who won the Emmeline
Woolley scholarship, which gives the girleen
three years at the Royal Academy in Lon-
don.
Now that Mrs. Lyster Ormesby is away—
hubby is in khaki—her place as missus of
the Girls’ Guild Jumble Depot (Surry Hills)
is filled by sister Louie. Meanwhile Mrs.
Ormesby is hewing the Sunshine camp
scheme out of the rough. This means a cot
by the sea and a daily dip in the blue Pacific
for some of the children of mean streets
during the sweltering days of January.
It works -out at about ss. a week to keep
each youngster. They take no baggage. Ynys
just picks them up as they are—mostly in
two garments with lots of fresh air blowing
through. If you want to help the Sunshine
camp, ring up Edgecliff 1515, and say so.
One of Sydney’s persistent socks-for-sojer
girls, Constance Carson, is now in London.
After leaving Sydney she spent some months
in Pharaoh’s land helping Mrs. Willie Chis-
holm at Heliopolis.
George Castles, of the Bendigo aviary,
writes from Salisbury, where he drills to
meet the enemy and in his spare time sings
in adjacent villages. George is with the
A.S.C. “Beg Wykeham is quartermaster
and I am train storeman,” he says. “Reg
looks to the tucker and clothing; I give out
the shovels, brooms, soap, and so on. Later,
Reg will have charge of the rum —I’m going
to stick to* him like glue!”
Amongst the officers at Jervis Bay to take
part in the hand-shake with the G.-G. the
other morning was old acquaintance Lieut.-
Commander Seton. He used to be Flag-
Lieut. in the days of the progressive King-
Hall —first British Admiral on the Austra-
lian station to barrack for the Australian
navy as a necessity for our national life.
Go to buy the white buckskin shoes you
growled at paying 18s. 6d. for early in 1915.
and the bootman asks you 275. 6d.! By the
time it costs another 20 per cent, to shoe
us all, we’ll give it up and try home-made
sandals of brown paper.
Still they come! The 4th D.A.C. Com-
forts Fund hangs out a sign at 28 Moore-
street.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LID:
JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS.
Plain Silver Oval Inkstand, with
.Groove in Front for Holding Pen.
Size, 44 inches long.
£1 10 O
HANDSOME PRESENTS
FOR THE
WRITING TABLE.
Silver Calendar Frame, with Fancy Shaped Corners.
Size, 6x4 inches.
£lB 0
Leather Writing Pad, with Four Solid Silver Corners. Size, 17J x lljin.
£1 14 0
There is
Exhibited at the
Company’s
Showrooms an
Almost Infinite
Variety of Articles
Suitable for Gifts.
DAINTY
SILVERWARE
JEWELLERY
LEATHER.
An Invitation to
Inspect the
Showrooms is
Cordially
Extended. Failing
this, Write for
New Illustrated
Catalogue. Posted
Free.
FIVE PER CENT.
CASH DISCOUNT.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
Start the New Year with
a Harrington Camera.
Think of all the beautiful scenes you have seen in past years. Think of your
holiday trips and week-end excursions. Many of them are but faded memories;
whereas, if you had a camera and took photos of the different views and
episodes, you would be able to live your holidays over again and again.
Don’t let another year slip by without possessing one. Call to-day and
let us show you our fine range of dependable, British-made Cameras.
ħ
The British-made Regular Ensign Model,
3*4 A, is a favorite Camera, on account of its
handy size, compact shape and splendid value.
It x?an be used with Plates or Films, the latter
being loaded and unloaded in daylight, and takes
postcard size pictures.
It has a seasoned wood body, with Aluminium
Baseboard, covered Real Morocco Leather,
Leather Bellows, Nickelled and Enamelled
Fittings, the famous Stirrup Front, Brilliant
View-finder, Flexible Wire and Trigger Release.
The Lens is an Ensign Anastigmat F 7.7, with
Ensign Simplex Shutter.... Price, £550
Do., with Cooke Luxor Anastigmat Lens and
Ensign Sector Shutter £8 2 6
A Large Stock of other Cameras, from 5/-
each.
Send for Catalogue if you cannot call.
Send Your Residues and Assays
to HARRINGTONS’.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis,
and Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers can depend
upon having their Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products expediti-
ously and scientifically treated, if they are entrusted to us. Give us a ring
and our Traveller will call on you.
TV e buy any material containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply
them and their alloys in plate or wire.
I™
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists and Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREETSYDNEY.
Arad at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories and Laboratories, Sydney.
“This Little Device Draws
Hidden Beauties From The
Record.”
3^
8*
1
It
r
r
THE GRADUOLA which is an exclusive
feature of the
Aeolian-V ocalion
adds immensely to the expressive
resources of sound reproduction.
By a touch you can emphasize those delicate
tonal qualities that are lost in ordinary repro-
ductions ; you can reduce harshness of tone or
other faults in a record to a minimum, and you can
impart a light and shade to'the music that the re-
cord alone could never give. This variation of tone
is effected by mechanism as natural and simple as
that of the human larynx. The tone is not stifled
or muffled after production but before the sound
is actually amplified ; therefore the purity of the
tone is absolutely unaffected.
The Aeolian-Vocalion will play any disc records.
Call and hear the Aeolian -
Vocalion in our showrooms.
YOUR PRESENT INSTRUMENT TAKEN IN PART PAYMENT.
Prices: £l2 10 oto £75
IN A LARGE RANGE OF HANDSOME MODELS.
FULL STOCKS OF DISC RECORDS.
The Pianola Company
PTY. LTD.,
384 George Street, Sydney
Post Us This To-day.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
384 George Street , Sydney.
Please send me Catalogs and Price List of the
Vocation as advertised in “ The Bulletin
Name
Address ..


Farmer’s Scottish Novelties
FOR THE NEW YEAR CELEBRATIONS.
h
FARMER’S is the only Australian House that
specialises extensively in Scottish Goods. ,
Our Scottish Novelty Stock is indeed a happy
ore for all patriotic Scotsmen to inspect; the
truly national character of the Goods and
t’.e widely diversified assortment offer a wealth
of suggestions for gift givers.
Lochaber Axe Brooches, similar to illustra-
tion, make charming presents. Made in 9ct.
Gold, set with Scotch Pebbles.
PRICE 19/6 each.
We Pay Carriage.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS
Clan Munro
The Official Clan
Tartan for 1917
We have stocks of this
Tartan Ribbon in fin.
Price, 1/3; lin., 1/6,
and lijin., 1/11 per yd.
We also stock all Clan
Tartan Ribbons in widths
from fto 2 inches. Prices,
2 %d. to 1/4% yd.
Public Notices.
TONGKAH HARBOR TIN DREDGING CO. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend, the
23rd, of five per cent., or one shilling per
share, amounting to £7500, lias been declared, pay-
able on 22nd January, 1917, and for this purpose
the SHARE REGISTER will be CLOSED from the
15th to the 22nd January inclusive. Bv order of the
Board, H. J. WISE, Manager.
Dated at Hobart this 15th day of December, 1916.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Limited.
N otice is hereby given that an
Extraordinary General Meeting of
The Royal Bank of Queensland Limited will
be held at the registered office of;, the Com-
pany, 180 Queen Street, Brisbane, on
Tuesday, the 9th day of January, 1917, at
12 noon, when the subjoined Resolutions will
be proposed as Extraordinary Resolutions: —
1. That it is expedient to effect an amalgamation
of this Company with The Bank of North Queensland
Limited.
2. That, with a view to the amalgamation of this
Company with The Bank of North Queensland Limi-
ted, this Company be wound up voluntarily.
3. That Edward Denny Day and Edmund Harry
Matthews, both of Brisbane," be and' they are hereby
appointed liquidators for the purpose of such winding-
up, and that all the powers of the said liquidators
may be exercised by either of them.
4. For the purposes of facilitating the carrying
out of such amalgamation the Directors of this Com-
pany or a majority of them may and they are hereby
authorised if necessary to consent to the registration
of a new Company to be named “The Bank of
Queensland Limited,” with a Memorandum and
Articles of Association which have already been
prepared with the privity and approval of the Direc-
tors of this Company.
5. That the draft agreement expressed to be made
between this Company and the liquidators thereof
of the first part, The Bank of North Queensland
Limited and the liquidators thereof of the second
part, and The Bank of Queensland Limited of the
third part, submitted to this meeting be and the
same is hereby approved, and that the liquidators of
this Company as aforesaid be and they are hereby
authorised pursuant to Section 151 of “The Com-
panies Act 1863,” to enter into an agreement on
behalf of this Company in terms of the said draft
(which contains inter alia a provision for paying
under the circumstances mentioned therein the sums
and allowances for life specified therein to the pre-
sent General Manager of The Royal Bank of Queens-
land Limited and to the present General Manager of
The Bank of North Queensland Limited) with such
(if any) modifications as the said liquidators may
think expedient and to carry the same into effect.
Should the. Resolutions be passed by the
required majority they will be submitted for
confirmation its Special Resolutions to a
second Extraordinary Meeting, which will be
subsequently convened.
Dated the twenty-first day of December,
1916. By Order of the Board,
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager,
ISO Queen Street, Brisbane.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, December 26, 1916.
• My Dear Yarrie, —
Alan, son of the Argus Spowers, is
amassing decorations at top speed. Firstly
he managed to pick up a Military Cross and
a few wounds, which sent him back home
for repairs. During his second smack at
the enemy in the young man
has earned the D.S.O.
The sole surviving daughter of the late
school-inspector Rix has been hard hit by
the war. She and her mother and younger
sister, all three being artists, were studying
painting abroad when the first guns sent
them hurrying back to England. As a re-
sult of the terrible journey the mother and
sister died within a few weeks of each other.
The grief-stricken sister, after a brief flash
of happiness as the bride of Major Nicholson,
D. 5.0., is now a widow. The Major, who
left a State-school teacher’s billet to take
on a fighting job, came from the Western
District.
Nigel Prichard, who had some nasty war-
experiences as a medical officer in Servia, and
has since been acting as resident-surgeon at
the Geelong Hospital, is once more on the
wing. This time he is making a flight to a
newly-bought practice at Pyramid Hill, on
the northern rim of the dry-farming belt,
where the mosquitoes come up from the
Murray country every night, and are very
thirsty when they get there.
Capt. Jack Locke, one of the Duntroon
collegiates who burned to get away with
the first Australian Expeditionary Force
and wasn’t allowed to, has fully made up
for lost time. Jack, who is Staff-Captain
of the 4th Infantry Brigade, achieved the
Military Cross some six months ago. Writ-
ing to his mother in Melbourne he guesses
that he got the Cross—which, by the way,
is a silver decoration —for leading a
night march against the Turks at Gallipoli
in August last year. Since that bauble was
bestowed on him he has been officially con-
gratulated on his doings in France. Official
congrats., it seems, are issued on type-,
written postcards. One of these, signed by
Major-General Cox, refers to “good work”
accomplished in two specified lots of opera-
tions “near Pozieres” during August, 1916.
Few of our kliaki-clads. who climb into
the trenches have brought back such a varied
assortment of first-hand experiences as Dr.
McAdam’s boy Cecil. Soon after clutcn-
ing his degree, Cecil joined a British army
corps with 99 other medical fledglings. He
was able to send along a column of Dublin
riot matter from the spot to the Argus,
which —in gratitude perhaps—later on pub-
lished a good deal about young Cecil’s lecture
on army hospital work. Next, there’s a
quarter-column in the Argus about Greeks
the same young man has known. The
articles are headlined : “By a British Army
Officer,” the name of the medico being in
smaller type. There’s nothing like hiding
your light under a bushel if you want to
escape notice.
From “Rosna,” in London: —
Don’t tell me millinery doesn’t count in war.
The turned-up hat of Tommy Kangaroo has been one
of the biggest assets of that engaging gentleman or
bloque, partly because in a world bespread with
khaki it immediately marked him as different from
every other warrior. Canada has acknowledged this
late in the day by inventing a distinctive headgear
for her army, too. It is a tam-o’-shanter with tails
behind and a stiff cock’s feather standing perkily up
in front. It gives the wearer a startled air, and
cannot touch the Australian hat. And neither can
Canada, poor thing, produce the grin that goes
under the hat of an Anzac ; and grins are nearly as
important as millinery.
That spry young veteran Reggie Bright,
whom the war marooned in England, writes
to say he is still going strong, but is disap-
pointed that no war work can be found for
eager gentlemen of 83.
Sam McCulloch’s American wife, with a
small son and his smaller sister in tow, has
been enjoying a spell of city life in a South
Yarra hash-palace. Her fellow-boarders are
struck dumb by the head coverings she
comes down to breakfast in. One little
extinguisher hides all her hair but a lock.
F. W. Wheatley, the science man from
the Naval College, trekked dver from Jervis
Bay to spend Christmas. After putting in
a fortnight seeing Melbourne he goes down
to the seaside to fit himself for next teaching
year.
Mrs. Arthur Woolcott, the Button-day
specialist, has received doctor’s orders to
drop the patriotic badge business and retire
into a private hospital for a rest. The poor
lady overdid it like all enthusiasts, and at
last started to hear collection-boxes in her
reams.
Mrs. Ben Nathan, of Ripponlea, has been
overcome by her efforts to rule a
domain, so the place will be shut up while
she takes a rest. For some time past the
portly dame has been fattening the patriotic
funds by charging people for the privilege
of viewing the lake, lawn, fernery and what
not which she and her intellectual hubby re-
gard as home. Apparently the good lady’s
pastime was too great a success.
Unable to return to W.A., owing to the lack
of steamers, the John Forrests have been
given shelter by the George Fairbairns at
Mt. Martha. Bigjohn and his lady, fol-
lowed by Miss North and a wake of luggage,
arrived at the Fairbairn seat last week.
Bigjohn, by the way, wants to sell his Perth
mansion and lay the foundations of another
a bit farther out.
Ballarat is to get its new imported bishop
early next month. The expensive shepherd
will be consecrated by Archbish. Clarke in
Melbourne on January 6 and inspected by
his flock on the following day. The
stranger’s name, I hope you haven’t for-
gotten, is Maxwell Homfray Maxwell-
Gumbleton. Gummy for short.
The handsome Roy Greene pair have
moved themselves and their most valued
chattels from South Yarra to the late Moles-
worth Greene’s Greystones property at
Bacchus Marsh. The fine old estate has
been left to this son, together with a pile of
dollars. Roy, who is probably the most-
carefully-groomed male in the city, onfce
decorated the local Garrison Artillery, but
faded back to civil life after the Govern-
ment had allowed him six months’ experi-
ence with British gunners in the Strand
somewhere in the latter ’Bo’s. Mrs. Roy is
a daughter of retired Justice Hartley Wil-
liams, who spends his pension in the Fog.
TOMMY COCHRANE, the Good Fairy of
the Repertory At Homes.
Tommy Cochrane is all in all at the Re-
pertory social junkets. Tommy can man-
age in his spare time to appear on the stage,
act as secretary for the more serious business
of the Reps., and turn up in the latest
smart-set duds and act as the beneficent fairy
at Rep. parties. At these last the old ladies
and the nearly-on-the-shelf dames can be sure
of attention from Tommy: he juggles extra
chairs from the air and dispenses smiles and
goodwill all round.
The garden fete at the Oreswicks’ Mal-
vern castle, Yarrien, was not stamped flat;
nevertheless a few hundred-odd of the charit-
ably inclined drifted in to give a financial
boost to the Berry-street Training Home
for Girls, which can hardly be described as
a really indispensable institution. It took
me some time to discover one person who
admits having obtained a domestic help from
it. The Como Armytage spinster was prime
mover in the Yarrien revel. The stormy
Stonington show 7 has rather scared the
people who wear fine chiffons at such func-
tions. Hundreds of pounds’ worth of. dresses
w r ere ruined by the weather that time, and
the experience shook .every best dresser’s
nerve. The doctors have _ gained many
guineas prescribing for chills caught by
some of the soaked unfortunates who that
day beat on the vice-regal doors. There was
no getting into the Stanley domicile to ruin
the carpets. The one creditable thing about
the fiasco was the large-hearted hospitality
of the Bowes Kellys; every door in their
place was thrown open to the cowering re-
fugees.
The Leslie Stuarts are moving into Logan
House, the Fred Fairbairns’ roomy castle
in the Toorak-road. The Fairbairns, after
building the white mansion and filling it
with costly furniture, suddenly decided to
become Anglo-Australians, and have been
passionately seeking a tenant who didn’t
w 7 ant to keep boarders as paying pets.
D. Y. Syme, jun., has dropped into the
w r ell-padded chair of the Steamship Owners’
Federation, vacated by W. T. Appleton.
The new young chairman came from the
managerial desk in the Melbourne Steam-
ship Co.’s Westralian office. Dad Syme,
by the way, looks a sad man since the loss
of the genial w 7 ife who made him brother-in-
law to George Reid.
Adelaide’s communique : —-
The new premises of the Returned Soldiers Asso-
ciation were formally announced by the Premier to
be habitable. The rooms are in Netter’s Buildings,
and the first' six months’ rent has been paid by the
proprietor.
The Trench Comforts Fund will benefit by a
f6te that was held in F. C. Howard's garden at
Mount Lofty on Saturday. It deserves it.
The Board of governors of the Art Gallery has
purchased from George Brookman a tapestry, “The
Adoration of the Magi,” designed by Burne-Jones
and worked by Morris and Co., the firm of which
the late William Morris was the head. The Diana
vase, said to be one of the best samples of art that
the late Seabridge Wilson handed to the Doulton
people, and loaned to the Gallery since 1909, has
now been given to it by Mr. Brookman.
Having grumbled thoroughly at the unceasing rain
and unjoyous winter, we are now doing it all over
again owing to a sudden onset of summer. At the
end of last week the thermometer clambered into the
nineties and mounted cheerfully till it touched
nearly 105 deg. on Tuesday. The only applause for
this performance came from the farmer and the
draper—the former looking to save his crops and
the latter anxious to sell some hitherto unwanted
summer clothing.
The Emergency Corps Committee of the League of
Loyal Women, with the help of the Regimental
Clubs, upended 14 Christmas trees at the Oval on
Tuesday for the pleasure of soldiers’ children and
their mothers. Over 2200 youngster* were stuffed
with good things and loaded with toys, which were
mostly home-made. Extraordinarily well-made they
were. It’s safe to prophesy that next year home-
made toys will be the thing in the way of Christmas
presents.
A Flower Day, arranged by the schools, added
more money to the Repatriation Fund on Wednes-
day. In the past fortnight teachers and scholars
have added almost £3OOO to the account.
Mareeba, the Red Cross Hospital at Woodville that
has just been closed, is to become a Babies’ Hospi-
tal, under State control, early in the year. The
Government intends to ask the help of the present.
Babies’ Hospital management committee in starting
its new work.
The Sturt statue was unveiled by the Governor on
Thursday. It stands at the north-western corner of
Victoria Square, close to the statues of Light and
Stuart. Over 10 years ago the committee of the
Colonel Light Statue Fund handed the balance of
its cash to the Mayor with a recommendation that
it be used as the nucleus of a monument to Sturt;
the Price Government agreed to give pound-for-
pound subsidy ; and the City Council presented the
site. The total cost was about £l6OO, of which a
little over £l4OO has come to hand. Adrian Jones
was the sculptor, and the explorer’s daughter says he
has achieved an excellent likeness.
There being no Savage Club rule which
prohibits, the marriage of the secretary,
“Bill” Tanish did it on Wednesday, his co-
adventurer being Mina Moore, our best-
known woman photographer. The wedding
was a quiet one, but the evening before the
Savages drank William’s health and pre-
sented him with furniture, silverware, advice
and encouragement.
Pretty Meryl Waxman, daughter of lawyer
Louis, said she would to young Dr. Lister
at Holy Trinity last week. Only a few
near relations were present, as the bride’s
father is a very sick man nowadays.
Hal Gye, questioned at the point of a pen,
has divulged particulars of his recent dash
into matrimony. They have been married
three months, and have been living quietly
at Ascot Yale in furtive enjoyment of their
lovely secret. Mrs. Gye was a Miss Alice
Gifford, and the artist embezzled her from a
Williamson pantomime co. Evidently she is
the pride of his life, for he speaks of her in
a low, intense manner which suggests that he
will soon be dropping caricature for lyric
poetry. ,
Miss H. Romanis, who pushes a secre-
tarial pen for the P’ran Red Cross, was mar-
ried to Corporal H. Grayndler last week.
The bride is the sister of the immaculate
personage who has town-clerked for some
years for the bargain suburb.
Mere words cannot paint barrister Whit-
ing’s expression at the present time. He
has a new grand-daughter, and daughter
Eileen is its mother. Eileen’s husband, Cap-
tain Geoffrey Walker, 31st Punjaubis, is too
far away to signify his approval, so grandpa
Whiting beams for the lot.
One of the recent golden weddings in Mel-
bourne was nothing of an advt. for early
marriages. Mr. and Mrs. George Buzzard,
of St. Kilda, who have run togther for half
a century, were 37 and 31 respectively when
they put the double harness on. George
Buzzard put in 50 years of active life in
Vic. as an insurance man in the service of
the Liverpool, London and Globe.
The late Laurie Abrahams, whose South
Yarra home was a Sunday-night rendezvous
for artists in his days of health, had been
bedridden for nearly four years before he
died. He took a trip to Europe in company
with Louis Hattenbach, the ’cellist, and re-
turned to the wharf at Port Melbourne on a
stretcher. It was bad enough for the good
old Australian Hebrew, but he might have
come to a worse end. Had he taken the
same trip 18 months later he would probably
have died in a German prison camp. One
of the Abrahams boys, by the way, lately
went off to join the Anzacs at the Front.
The industrious sculptress, Margaret Bas-
kerville, is preparing to drop a block of
marble on the coffin of Edith Cavell. The
stone is to bear a bronze head of the
deceased nurse attached tb a symbolic
arrangement which will try to reveal the
soul emerging bashfully from the body. At
time of writing, the soul is only in an
embyro state, but there is enough of it visible
to show that Margaret must have viewed the
object at close quarters.
There was only one surprise at the Uni.
Conservatorium’s annual parade of voices and
fingers. This was contralto Mary Mack, in
“Ships that Pass in the Night,” lifting up
large volumes of sweet sound from the bot-
tom of her soul and pouring them over the
audience. Louise Pinschof, in a
pink frock and a better platform-man i (
than most of the others, sang ‘''hat »o.
the Gentle Lark!” The old Pinschojt
couple, very bowed down beneath their D
den of war-worries, sat tiredly near at ha ,
only brightening up when their girl ca ™
forward. There was too much concei
during the evening—five pianoforte-lots alto
gether of Chopin, Beethoven and Liszt.
Prof. Laver conducted the orchestra, Joe
North led it, and there was a big muster
of girleens with fiddles. All the brasses and
woodwinds were tootled by men, howevei ,
and Louis Hattenbach (Mr., please) crouched
beside his ’cello, an aged and shrunken old
fellow. August di Gilio was the chief fiddle-
soloist. During his performance ■of a
Paganini-Wilhelmj concerto old-man Pocco
di Gilio, deeply concerned for the prestige
of the family, kept bobbing up and down in
the balcony like a Cheshire cat on a hot
shovel. The fad of the evening was for
each girl-singer to hold a little inch-and-a-
half posy in front of her diaphragm.
Of course it’s a spiteful man who writes
this
I was privileged to be in a city hairdressery the
other day when our most-talked-of tenor was having
his beautiful moustache curled. It was wonderfully
impressive. Singer and barber —each an artist
exchanged bows, as though about <to begin a
minuet, and after a few graceful gestures and some
well-chosen remarks in Italian —the: harshness of
his native Saxon would have spoilt everything—the
tenor sank into a chair and tossed tack his head.
When the operator seized the heated tongs a hush
fell upon the chatterers who waited their turn. The
silence lasted until the rite was completed, when
both artists heaved deep sighs. The tenor went to
the mirror and gazed ecstatically; he touched the
adornment reverently, as though doubting that so
beautiful a thing could be real. After languorously
rolling his expressive eyes at his own reflection he
sighed, and with a gesture of hopeless wonderment
reluctantly turned away. Capturing his halo, he
presented the barber with a speech of thanks in
Italian and a sweeping bow in 18th century French,
bent his head to the waiting patients, and —well,
then we resumed our discussion of the war.
Ruby Gray, the musical member of the
Collins-street clan, went to Honolulu this
week to stay with Melba. She won’t get
there in time for Christmas, but she’ll hear
Peggy Centre at her "return home” concert.
At Her Majesty’s on Saturday opera-
glasses were concentrated on the new prin-
cipal boy, Hilda Guiver. She is a mixture
of blonde and brunette and has enough good
looks to make the compromise attractive.
Her starring partner, Gretchen Yates, is of
more modest dimensions, but she has one
of those passionate heads of hair that set
one hunting for euphemisms to describe its
coloring. It would be untruthful to liken
her tresses to certain humble vegetables.
Still it is wonderful how she manages to
keep cool under such a conflagration. She
explains, by the way, that Gretchen is not
of Hun origin, but was merely adopted as a
suitable companion for Yates. Another
interesting lady in the panto, is Mrs. Ritchie,
who directs the break-neck biking troupe.
She brought the team from the Fog, and on
the voyage out a torpedo nearly dropped in
for breakfast. Mrs. Ritchie, like the others,
grabbed her lifebelt, and for the remainder
of the journey was practically married to
the thing.
Phil Finkelstein, the classic-featured Wil-
liamson press-agent, who has been laid up
for some time with nerve trouble, is back at
work helping to keep the pot boiling.
Queenscliff is threatened with an invasion
of war-time economy women. They promise to
begin operations in the bathing-suit depart-
ment, and say that no one will have cause
to complain that any material has been
wasted in the making of their gowns.
Length is to be abolished, and width con-
fined chiefly to stripes, some of which are
said to be loud enough to waken the dead.
But. as usual, the censor won’t let me give
you fuller details.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


m
a
*5
<
i
9
%
I
s
g
r«
»»
s
>.
.3
s
\
t
g
3
fc
v
%
§
Y
i
%
I
&
i
►
\
/
K
2
\i
/
§
A
1
V 5
\
*£*
/S
&
-w;
A
Nsyg
*
S£


Choose a “Swan.”
ĥ
The
Soldiers’
Pen
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“SWAN SAFETY
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MA6IE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J, A. BURKE 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a Qeorge St., Sydney.
A Signal Success
ħ
h
King George lV
M wimnmY
XheTOP’NOTClTScotck
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“1.V.D.” ; Things once seen never for-
gotten. A pair of wedge-tailed eagles, a party of
brolgas or a-small lot of pelicans, soaring in a clear
sky. A mob of galahs—about four or five thousand
strong—taking their afternoon flight, moving with
the precision of cavalry, obeying some law or leader,
and in their flight showing their rose and lavender
plumage against the low sun. A mob of emus
making in to water. A flock of ibis flying to their
roost on the edge of the timber across a plain, the
different formations of front, probably to meet air
currents, conceived and acted on instantly. The
incomparable dance of the brolgas. The antics of
the lyre-bird and his glorious notes of the most
perfect mimicry while doing his turn on the mound.
The strategic movements of wild ducks in hiding
themselves and their young. The mother duck,
gammoning winged, will often lead a new-chum a
mile away from her brood. The flight of budgeri-
gars (many thousands) at sunrise, or the same
flock feeding on button-grass. A flight of green
parrakeets when the eucalypt is in flower and full
of honey. A flock of pigeons when migrating.
You’ve got to go a good step out now to see this.
Pelicans fishing, silent, methodical, deadly. A
mother emu piloting her chicks through a bit of
enemy country, evading gohannas, carpet snakes,
eagles and hawks and dingoes, and (incidentally)
man. The swoop of a full-grown eagle on to a
plain turkey, lamb or wallaby, or his chase after a
duqk. I have seen the top of a wallaby’s head
lifted clean off and the brain exposed by one stroke
of the hind claw of this great bird. The swoop and
crash of a falcon into a flock of small birds, killing
perhaps four or five and retrieving most of them
before they hit the ground. The cruel little black
falcon hunting bats in the dark or late dusk.
Friend kookaburra handling a snake. The fish-hawk
dipping for a yellow-belly. The cuckoo laying her
egg (on the ground) and then putting it in, say, a
A MATTER OF THE SPIRIT.
MACWOWSER: “Edward Biggs, why do you say That alcohol is good for your soul?”
EDWARD BIGGS: “Well, m’ wife (hic) said nexsh time I came home screwed she’d (hic)
knock seven devils out o’ me.”
AT OUR BOARDING-HOUSE.
LANDLADY: “A little more spring lamb, Mr. Backroom?”
MR. BACKBROOM: “ Spring lamb, d’you call it? Why, it’s that tough that to-morrow what’s
left of it will be mutton.”
LANDLADY (promptly): "No, sir — stool”
robin’s nest while Robbo is away looking for grubs
for'the increasing family. The wily old crow drop-
ping dead sticks out of the upper limbs of a tree
on to what lie thinks may be a corpse below, to find
out if it is really dead. Your first sight \>f a snake
with about two feet of another one swallowed. Your
first hurry-skurry over a six-rail yard fence from an
old piker or a sliprail-horned bullock. (I don’t
know whether you will see much of this act, but I’ll
take a shade of odds you’ll remember it.)
“Eddyson”: Godfrey had had words with
Embling, as a consequence of the latter’s persistence
in paying attention to Miss Olive Godfrey. He had
gone to Embling as one gentleman to another, and
had called Embling a crimson-dipped, misbegotten
son of an unmentionable person, averring that he
would bat the young fellow’s detestably cow-face in
with a blood-spattered spade if he did not desist
from thrusting his loathsome company on the young
lady in question. Embling had nierely shifted his
weight from one leg to the other and grumbled
inarticulately. “Mind,” said Godfrey, “if these ’ere
goin’s on goes on I’ll be sayin’ somethin’ you won’t
like.” Then when the Godfrey arose one morning
and discovered that Olive was absent from her bed
and missing from her home, leaving a note, which
read: “Full up of Bedrock, full up of cows, full up
of YOU. Off! —Your ever-loving daughter, Olive,”
the distracted father wasted no moments weighing-
matters, but dashed straight over the hill to
Embling’s selection. He found Embling dismember-
iug' a sheep he had recently killed. Godfrey weighed
15st., Embling something under 9st., and the latter,
with the former on top, had no show on earth.
Godfrey hammered the hapless young man into
insensibility. A subsequent search failed to bring
to light any vestige of the missing maiden. Next
day Embling was able to sit out and take the air; a
week later he was in a position to call upon Godfrey
with a view to settling the case out of court. It
was now known that Miss Godfrey had gone to Mel-
bourne with a railway ganger named Evans. Embling
gave a list of his physical injuries, he enlarged upon
his moral wrongs, and dilated on a shock to the
system. Then suddenly Godfrey fell into a 11117.
“Bring yer action !” he howled. “Show yer bruises,
’n’ breaks, ’n’ cuts, and let the Court see all the
trouble I’ve had for nothin’.”
**. < * *
“A. J. Grey” : Allow me to introduce the
champion teetotaller of Australia. He is a wedge-
tailed eagle who for the last four years has been
chained to a perch outside the Australian Hotel at
Murgon (Q.). When first captured water was* put for
him to drink, • but he never touched it, so the tin
was taken away and he has done without it ever
since. Year after year he has sat and watched the
thirsty visit the bar, but, rising superior to his
environment, he has defied the hottest and driest
weather to make him take a drink. It may be
his abstinence that makes his eye so clear and his
mien so unhappy, and this may also account for
his docility, for though his beak and talons are
fully developed and look highly dangerous, he has
never hurt anyone, and a child can stroke his head.
His food is raw meat, which evidently contains suffi-
cient moisture for his needs. But can anyone tell
me is that the case with all meat-eating birds? I
have wondered, too, where the gulls in mid-ocean
drink. Some say they get moisture from the clouds,
but with our friend as an example of how water
may be done without, is it not more probable that
they do not drink at all?
(Continued on page 24 .)
WAGGONING HYMN, 1917.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the water-waggon
Shun the driver’s seat —•
In the lonely boneyard
Soon or late we’ll meet —
Sit upon the tailboard,
Smiling as she goes,
A sly flask in your pocket
For to warm your ruddy nose.
Old Argent-street was dust and heat in golden eighty-
eight ;
And men were men, and money dross, and naught
could youth abate;
And, for that strength was such, at length they paid
excess a fee,
To so discount their youth that they might rest more
peacefully.
Whiskjr in the pannikin,
Golden as the sun ;
Smelting in the cannikin
Youth and years foredone.
Underneath its oily wave
Hid were old age and the grave.
Whisky in the pannikin,
Golden as the sun.
On the button-grass the big men pass in the biting,
endless rain,
To dig galena by Zeehan Creek and to spend it fast
again.
To dare the sea by Reminie and - the rocks of
Royenrine,
And to conquer rain with a heavier wet when the
West Coast winds blow keen.
Brandy in the Jack Shea,
Three-star in the can;
Leeches where the tracks lay
Waiting for a man ;
Wet sky, mourning as with crape—
’Needs the sunlight for the grape.
Brandy in the Jack Shea,
Three-star in the can.
The sunlight on the salt lakes makes mirage—the
devil’s sea—
And men swamped up to Hannan’s, broke, but
grinning cheerfully—•
Salt white as wool, condensers full, with drought the
* land accurst;
And he was slain who’d try in vain, to baulk dry
blowers’ thirst.
Shypoo in the billycan,
Old rye in the glass—
’ Dust and willy-willy can
None but wowsers pass.
Shall a ’Venturer of Chance
Find “in tea his Lost Romance?
Shypoo in the billycan,
Old rye in the glass.
By the rocks of lime, a-many a time, on the plains
of Chillagoe,
Where the bower-birds play by Cathedral Rock and
the scented gales do blow;
By the spinifex and the flies that vex from the
Leichhardt to the Wills,
Where a man has life (if he has no wife), there’s
a quick demand for stills.
Whisky in the pannikin,
Old rye in the glass;
Golden is the cannikin
As the sunbeams pass.
Lemonade and gingerbeer
Never made our country here.
Sparkling is the pannikin
As the sunbeams pass.
In Tuscan fields the thin'soil yields its sour and
feeble wine;
London its dockyard glass of port and Paris absinthe
fine;
And New York sells in brilliant hells its cocktails
complicate;
Nor boozer may by ’Frisco Bay be long without a
mate.
Vinegar in flagons,
Absinthe in a cup;
Both these carry dragons
To double sinners up ;
To the Queensland scrubs I come
For the sugar-cane and rum.
Vinegar in flagons
Doubles sinners up.
By Botany Bay as bright as day the moon comes
from the sea,
Half-masted in the Norfolk pines; and, on the bal-
cony,
Sit. Jack and me the while the sea lisps flatt’ry to the
sand,
And drink the health of Captain Cook, & tankard in
each hand;
Tanglefoot in tankard
Foaming to the brim ;
Captain Cook we drank hard,
And the mates of him—
Drank his health till ours was lost.
Damn the future and the cost —-
Captain Cook we drank hard .
And the mates of him.
A sickled reach by Aola beach up in the Solomons,
And a nigger to each white man carrying gin to
toast the Dons ;
Two nigger boys to bring the joys of the eocoanut
milk when green;
In the boat a case of the good square face to broach
where the palm-trees lean.
Squareface in the eocoanut
Swizzled with the milk—
Every nobbier broke a nut —
Mixture soft as silk.
Swizzled gin is just the thing
For the kidneys of a king.
Squareface in the eocoanut.
Mixture soft as silk.
On the water-waggon
Beating six o’clock !
All the talk of Gothenberg
Does the waggon mock.
Virtue’s road is dreary
And soon we will be dead —
Wine is for the weary —
Let the waggon plod ahead.
BOTANY BAY.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


COMFORT SUITS
FOR HOLIDAYS
MURDOCH’S
Ready - to - slip - on
Summer Suits.
Here are the Suits you need—ready for immediate
wear—smart, shapely, serviceable —absolute com-
fort Suits that will prove attractive to men who
want full enjoyment in holiday attire..
Unsurpassed for value—they represent practical
savings for the wearer.
STEP IN AND LET US
FIT YOU TO-DAY.
Palm Beach Sports Suits
in plain Biscuit Shade, made with yoke and half
belt at back. Trousers turn-up bottoms 39/6
Palm Beach Sports Suits in hair-line chocolate
stripe, also black and White stripe—made as
above 457-
Men’s Two-Piece Lounge Suits, Grey-Striped
Tweeds, soft flannel finish—Very comfortable,
and will wear well 30/-
MS t
%
I
“ js.
We are ready to fill your holiday needs now —call and prove it. If unable to call, send
height, chest, waist, sleeve and inside-leg measurements to Desk R.
OPEN TILL 9.30 ON FRIDA Y NIGHTS.
MURDOCHS
in Park St. Ltd.
SYDNEY
“ Where the GOOD Hats are
“Soda Fountains”
Something GOOD 8 CHEAP for the Economical Buyers
'em
VYe quote this Handsome, Silver-plated Standard, with two double-stream
Draft Arms, Art Glass Shade with beaded fringe, electric light fittings ready to
place on the counter, £l5/10/-
Automatic Pumps, which measure the right quantity of Syrup for each glass,
from £2/5/- each.
We supply everything for the Soda Fountain trade.
CARBONATORS: —-We have all kinds. Rocking Cylinders, Hand Pump Car-
bonators, electric automatic Machines, Water-power automatic Carbonators.
We can fit you up quickly and thoroughly at the lowest prices in Australia.
We are manufacturers with 25 years’ experience
in the line, and know what you require .
SUPPJjlES: —Essences, Fruit Juices, Spoons, Straws, Ice Cream Servers,
Soda Fountain glassware at lower prices than any other house in Australia.
Be SURE to get our quotation before placing business elsewhere, and save
money.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE : F. H. Mogg, Preston House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
PERTH: A. B. Hadden, 99 William Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets, Wellington.
X IS II a H 3 »IW P UI3 aun*-x«piion
. ’ vmiiw sWM3j(j*SwW&Ss!ws '•
if IS
• " •••'■ r
,!
*. ' "* 4?y* «*** "■. / "'* I
*«**■ 61T *f|K§®s- *
N*''
:
m
(M
f l£
■*»»*» v : ..;.
%.*■■■ -
*»»
I si
s&*■
'w*
'kX
, - . \
IsL Jmki
*• •
*»
W
*
% ’*s - N
Your holidays will take on a new measure
of delight—you will be able to travel freely,,
easily, wherever your choice directs—to the
picturesque, rugged mountains, to the quiet
bush, to the ocean-swept coast, to the surfing-
beaches that call to you invitingly —when you
become the possessor of a Mitchell Six.
You will admire the surpassing beauty of
the Mitchell. You will be charmed by the
unequalled smoothness in riding brought
about by its Bate 50-inch cantilever rear
springs.
You will be more than pleased with the
remarkable efficiency of its silent, vibration-
less six-cylinder engine, which will take you
thousands of miles without requiring an
adjustment or causing you a moment’s
trouble. The engine is of the high-speed type;
it has and 5-inch stroke. It is fitted
with Simms unfailing magneto ignition.
You will enjoy the comfort and roominess
given the Mitchell’s long 120-inch wheel-base.
You will appreciate its many conveniences,
including self-starter, electric lighting,
engine-driven tyre-pump, and twenty-six
valuable extra features which other cars omit.
The Mitchell has, too, wonderful strength
and endurance.
You will find the fuel consumption to be
pleasingly low. The Mitchell averages twenty-
five miles and more to the gallon of benzine.
You will be gratified by the light wear on
tyres.
Let the Mitchell help you make every holi-
day perfect.
Five=passenger, £435
Single=seater £415.
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland: F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Agents for Victoria and
Tasmania: JAS. A MUNRO & CO., 493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD RALPH & CO.,
Victoria Street, Adelaide. Agents for West Australia: BRADLEY & WILLIAMS, 853-857 Hay Street, Perth. Agents for New
Zealand: North Island—lNGLlS BROS., Wellington; South Island —HAMLET & TENCH, 166 Tuam Street, Christchurch.


Martin's Pills are -sold by W. H. Soul,
Patlinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist, Southampton.*
GREAT DANGER OF INSECT BITES.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by Using NEV-A-BITE.
A Preparation of Proved Effectiveness.
“There is no question,” says a leading specialist,
“that insect bites may lead to great danger to
health, and have been known to end fatally.”
m
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect bite
might set up such
serious inflamma-
Lion as to cause blood-poisoning, and —as every-
one well knows—blood-poisoning may lead to
even the amputation of a limb.
The best form of treatment of mosquito
bites is prophylactic or preventive. The appli-
cation of a little of the NEV-A-BITE
lotion,reduces the probability of mosquito bites
to a minimum.
NEV-A-BITE is a perfectly harmless
preparation, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
if NEV-A-BITE is unobtainable from
your local supplier, send 1/2 in stamps to one
of the following, viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [2
“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who thinks he knows.” Try Martell's
and you’ll become a connoisseur; you will know then
what the best is; and will know you know. When
it comes to ordering brandy again, you will specify
MARTELL’S. BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic, that Martell’s ensures. Never travel
without some Martell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNBEATEN QUALITY. [2
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small box of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does not
rub off. It will make a grey-haired person
look 10 to 20 years younger.”— Advt. [3
Dustless
Dusting
Use
a.
-in-One
Oil J
f
'
Moisten woollen rag
or cheese-cloth with
this wonderful
Oil. ' Wipe
Piano, Chair,
Table, Man-y
tel any-
polished
surface.
Dust and
germs stick to the cloth!
No grease or acid in “Three-in-
One"- iust water-white, sweet-
smelling Oil that makes
Wood, Metal and Glass
clean and bright.
Send for FREE Sample Bottle.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
HARRIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
pn*"*
I u«icini
5333}
«ALNES?II.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE. •
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Leo Lear”: Did you ever hear of a gate
getting fixed on a man's mind? Some years ago
riding into Morven station (now closer-settled) in
Western Vic. I overtook an old man walking on the road
and bound for the same place. We went in through
a gate which he opened and shut, and when half-way
across the paddock he stopped short and went through
the dumb show of lifting the wire coupling of another
gate, pushing it open, going through, and shutting
and fastening it behind him. I mentioned the
matter at the station, and was informed that a fence
and g'ate once crossed the track at the exact spot at
which the man stopped. He seemed rational enough
on other subjects, but never passed the locality
without opening and shutting the imaginary giate.
Seems to me some of our jockeys see similar obstacles
in the straight.
* * * *
'Hay”: One of the things which always
appeared unaccountable to me in my early days out
in the Sunset was the way in which wild cats had
distributed themselves many hundreds of miles from
any human habitation. The ordinary imported tabby
and tortoiseshell were to be met with even in almost
waterless tracts of country. Evidently the life suited
them, for they were always in good condition and
must have subsisted on birds, lizards and such small
game. Binghi viewed them with a kind of super-
stitious dread and would not even allow his dogs
to molest them if he could prevent it. He called
the cat “teen.va teeehera,” which means mystery, or
fog, or anything that creeps silently. Fog or mist
is rare in the Outback regions, and like the coming
of the soft-footed cat seemed to be too much of a
puzzle for Binghi’s comprehension. At any rate
he thought it best to treat pussy respectfully, and
when told that the white man made it comfortable
in his house and let it live with him Binghi was
scornfully incredulous. The manner in which so
many of our so-called tame cats have answered the
call of the wild makes me think that my sphinx-like
purring machine on the softest cushion is only
acting a part, and that in her heart of hearts she
would far rather be rearing a brood of scratching,
spitting wild devils in a hollow log at the back of
Beyond.
“Te; Babarantiko”: People are killed by
falling cocoanuts, ’spite of what “Te Pana” says (B.
16/11/T6). I know cases. Close shaves are innu-
merable. I once sat for an hour or so under a young-
tree some 20ft. high, loaded with bunches of three-
quarter-grown nuts, the stage at which they practi-
cally never fall unless disease is present. When I
arose and took a couple of steps to remove the
kinks from my back —-plop! a nut weighing, several
pounds fell in the exact spot where I had been sit-
ting, and it remained standing on end, being driven
into the soft ground. Another time, when gathering
nuts with the aid of a wheelbarrow, I passed under a
tree some 60ft. high, and a ripe nut fell in front of
me between the shafts of the barrow and bounced
out again, almost touching my nose. On another
occasion a nut fell from a full-grown tree
close behind me. Startled, I turned quickly, and
another nut dropped right before me so near that.l
felt the air of its passage on my face. When
brown relative walks the palm-overhung road his
eyes are always-aloft on the watch for trouble.
HIS LETTER.
JIM : “Oh, it’s Toosday, is it? Toosday the
what, Bill?”
BILL : “The twenty-fifth."
JIM: “Toosday the twenty-fifth — er —what
of, Bill?"
BILL : “June.”
J IM: “Toosday the twenty-fifth of June —er
—1915 or 1916, Bill?”
UNREASONABLE.
MRS. NOBBLER (2 a.m.): "This is indeed a nice hour to come home!"
MR. NOBBLER : “Have sensh, woman! D’ speck a man to stop out all night on the
misherable sum of four an' tuppence?"
“Karauria”: Why should “Perewiki”
grumble (B. 7/12/'l6) because the Maori uses what
he calls “Anglicised words”? Henare could no more
get along nowadays with his own lingo than Horace
could with his if he turned up on the Appian Way.
If the Maori wants the long beer, or the cigar, or
the cow, or the pair of pants, or the box of pills he
has to use one or other of those words because he
had none of his. own. If he wants to send a tele-
gram, or ride in a motor, or discuss the relative
advantages of sowing cocksfoot or alsike on certain
soil, or hold a debate on the influence of Christianity
or Judaism, he-is at once involved in subjects which
bankrupt the tongue that-was good enough for the
crew of the Arawa. The fact is that the Maori
is ceasing to speak real Maori because to do so
would be useless, and because he has necessarily
ceased to think like his forefathers. There is
nothing very wonderful about that. But the yarn
about a golden-haired waihine is a bit over the odds.
The only color that beats the black is red, and even
then the rusty carrot wins -through very seldom —
never on the first cross. And what does “Perewiki”
know about the “peculiar vices” of the original
article? Bah! He te tangata korero. 1 know no
man with the blood of the Ngapuhi or Waikatos in
Him whom even a Cockney strain has made vicious
enough to slander the women of the pakeha nor
shallow enough to make cheap ridicule of the Eng-
lishman because his language is chock full of Teuton
words. If I did, I would call him kuri.
“D.F.” : The kelp-beds mentioned (B.
30/11/’l6) by “N. or M.” have another use besides
sheltering the fish. A's fishermen know well,
they make a splendid harbor in rough weather.
When a sea gets up the boats run in
among the kelp, which breaks the force
of the waves and turns them into a mere swell. A
boat can ride safely in a big kelp-bed when it would
stand a very poor chance outside, and it can be
rough round this coast. When the kelp comes ashore,
as it does in millions of tons sometimes after a
storm, it’s a rattling good manure. In fact, it
used to be said of the people at Orford, small
farmers and fruitgrowers, that they lived on kelp
and seaweed.
“Chevron”: Close calls? Here's an early
start. While a small boy was sitting in a jinker
drawn up at the roadside in Prahran (Vic.) an elec-
tric tram, whose brakes had failed to act, crashed
into the back of a stationary motor-car. The car
was hurled 40 feet forward against the jinker. The
jinker in turn was flung against a verandah-post, and
the verandah-post snapping, the upper part fell
between the boy’s knees and pierced the floor of the
vehicle. The kid was . unhurt; but he doesn’t want
ever again to be the penultimate link in such a
chain of colliding circumstances.
“Two Seas” : Re jibbing horses. Often a
good hard-working moke gets a bad name from a
new owner simply because he to pull when
harnessed in an unaccustomed position. There is no
animal so obstinately conservative, and none with
such a marvellous memory.- He is in the Upper
House of the animal kingdom, so to speak, and hates
change. One instance out of many. A neighbor of
mine bought a horsb at a sale that on bis looks
was equal to shifting two tons on a level road. A
fortnight later the buyer brought him In me and
offered to swap him for a-pair of fowls. He told me
quite frankly that lie had spent a week trying to
make the animal shift an empty dray, and certainly
the obstinate moke looked as if someone had been
busy upon him. His rump was covered with the
rogue’s brand, put on with a spreader, and his hair
looked as if the owner's persuasive language had
fired the grass under him. After the deal was made
I tried the animal in a team, and he pulled like 40
devils. It didn’t matter to him if the leader wasn't
pulling an ounce. So long as there was anything in
the shape of a horse in front of him my singed
“jib” was quite content to do all the work. Ho had
always been used to working behind a mate, and
refused to work on his lonesome. By the way, can
any Abo. horse-master mention a sure cure for a
mare that has a habit of going up on her hind legs and
pawing the atmosphere whenever she feels annoyed?
I have tried most things short of dropping a bomb
on her. head, but the bill for new shafts still appears
regularly.
“Barcoo”: Next to using the lariat,
throwing and tying down a beast is the most intei
esting and spectacular performance on the Noi em
Queensland cattle camps. It becomes of giea ei
interest on account of the danger that attaches to
keeping the beast on the ground, although the
dinkum stockman, such as you’ll find in the Gu
country, has little difficulty in doing this. One
man who is right up to his business can manage
by himself, but the ordinary hand usually has an
assistant. One operator races his horse up
beside an animal, makes it put on pace, reaches
over to grasp the horny’s tail firmly in one hand,
and gives it a couple of sharp swings towards his
mount, which causes the proprietor to cross its
hind legs. Immediately this happens over goes
the show, both men are off their horses in a flash,
and the horny is kept on its back by one grasping
the horn and muzzle, holding the former down and
the latter up, while the other man passes the tail
round between the hind legs, -at the same time
grabbing the hind leg nearest him. The rest is easy.
Where scrub cattle have to be captured dogs trained
to the purpose are usually employed, the breed gener-
ally having a splash of bulldog blood. When the
Mickey is sighted the dogs set sail, one makes a
grab and hooks on to the flying beast’s lip, while
the other grabs the tail. The captive soon comes
down and the musterer does the. rest.
“O. Kow”: Has the Gippsland farmer
tried this waj' of clearing his land of bracken fern?
Cut and burn, and as soon as it starts to shoot
again put on as many sheep as you can (say, five to
the acre). I worked for Jack Webb, at Te Horo
(M.L.), and that was the way he cleared his land
of fern.' As the job knocked Sheol out of his own
sheep owing to the young fern scouring them he
bought a mob of old ewes at a bob a head for the
work. Ground with bracken Bft. high has been
cleared by this treatment. After the first time you
can crush fern every spring with your own stock.
* * * *
“Askeaton” : Allow me to introduce “Glen-
dower” (B. 30/11/’l6) to the rest of the Kelly
family while he is touring North Queensland with
his banjo: Crosscut Kelly, Black Kelly, Kelly the
Fool, Blackguard Kelly, Dreadnought Kelly, Spider
Kelly, Wild Kelly, Gridiron Kelly and Whalebone
Kelly. Then there was Broken-nosed Kelly, who sold
his wife for 18d. and a pound of steak.
“Papilio”: Victoria’s recent record rains,
which have caused such a growth of grass that big
bushfires will be a feature of the summer, have
had the interim result of promoting the growth of
the caper plant. This in turn has led te a vast
increase in the clouds of caper butterflies which visit
the State annually. Coming on the wings of the
north wind, these insects, whose half-mourning cos-
tume of pearl-white with black trimmings seems to
indicate that Nature is showing her sympathy for
the long casualty-lists, have in many cases overshot
the mark, and millions, falling into the sea, have
been washed ashore on the coasts of Port Phillip
SWARPIN’ COMPLIMENTS.
GINGER: “Gam, yer father couldn't pass the
doctor!"
PUNDIN: "Burr! Yarns can't pass a pub."
“O’Phiim'i-t.v”: A Bulletin par. men-
tioned that Kelly, the first circumnavigator of Tas-
mania, said the natives were of gigantic stature.
Curious that Tasman made a similar statement in his
journal for 1643, the year of his visit to the island.
He inferred from steps cut so far apart in trees
that the natives must have very long legs. This Was
their method of climbing. A loop of grass rope
with three or four feet of slack was placed round
the trunk of a tree. The climber, generally a
woman, according to the letters of our oldest in-
habitants, got inside this, and gathered the slack
under her arms. A small hole was made in the
trunk about three and a half feet from the ground.
Lifting her leg the athletic lady placed her big toe
in this, and gradually worked the loop up the trunk,
alternately leaning her weight against the rope and
jerking it upwards, until her body was raised right
above the flirt step. Another hole was then cut, the
toe of the other foot inserted, and upward progress
continued in similar manner. In this way the
loftiest trees were scaled, the steps being never less
than three feet apart. While not in use the flint
for making the holes was balanced on the head.


NDABLE DUNLOPS
iif
:
■
$
:
m
■
A
wm
I
; : ;
■sSai
11
:
Sectional view
depicts actual
thickness of
880 x 120 in m
Dunlop Three
Ribbed Cover,
Varied Conditions
of Motoring :: ::
call for different types of
covers. The range illus-
trated suits all requirements.
A glance at the sections
shows great thickness of the
highest grade materials, and
tells why these White Tread
Australian - made Dunlops ■
give such exceptional wear.
Our Price List reveals the
fact that these big mileage
covers cost less than im-
ported covers. Thousands
of Motorists are using Dun-
lops and getting splendid
service—at a low cost. ARE
YOU ONE OF THEM? IF
NOT—WHY ?
Dunlop Rubber Co., all States & N.Z.
STANDARD
GROOVED
RUBBER ::
NON-SKID—
THE MOST
EFFICIENT
MADE.
Sectional
View -
, Thickness
of Tread
of Standard i
880 x 120 J
***/#$
View
of Tread
igk lover.


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE’S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, as it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST —a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
.4^‘h
,7^o-
-
57
i
■<HMCStE.y-^*i»TM;t,
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
Price 2/S and Ar/S (double size
Front all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to —
W. 0. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
CEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices—
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
14,
“J.F.H.”: “The Best of Luck,” Drury
Lane’s latest spectacular melodrama, con-
tains a couple of thrills. Madge Titheradge
is the central figure of one of them. She has
to chase an express train on a motor-cycle,
and in doing so rides over a plank stretched
across what looks like an abyss of tremen-
dous depth. It is doubtless not quite so
dangerous as it looks, but it provides a
genuine thrill when viewed from the front,
all right. The management wanted 'a trick
cyclist to do this feat, but Madge insisted on
playing the whole of the. part herself.
“E.T.”: Australian-born composer Clut-
sam is responsible for half the score of
Robert Courtneidge’s new musical produc-
tion, which will soon be in the bills of Daly’s,
London. The other half is the work of that
Britisher, Bath, who was conducting grand
opera in Australia a few years ago. The
librettist is old-hand Captain Basil Hood;
the title, “Young England”; the central
figure, Drake.
By way of showing to the world that
Shakspeare belongs exclusively to them, the
Huns publish their theatrical statistics for
the past season, claiming 675 performances
of the Bard’s plays in 94 theatres. “The
Merchant of Venice” is top-scorer with 98
performances; “Hamlet” a good second with
97. Only two of the English historical plays
were presented—“ Henry the, Fourth” and
“Richard the Third.”
From London :—•
Elocutionist Alex. Watson, who starts in February
for another Australian tour, has just got back after
three months spent in entertaining the boys on the
Western Front. Altogether he gave 75 recitals, some
to the accompaniment of fire and shell. Big
crowds rolled up everywhere. Both comic and
serious selections were given; but Billjim preferred
the latter, and especially Masefield’s fine “Ever-
Jasting Mercy.”
“B.B.” t Mention of picture censors re-
minds me that Maoriland’s recently-
appointed in the first seven weeks of his
dreadful job examined 640,000 ft. of film.
Out of 260 pictures four were fired out, and
minor alterations were made in 35. The
taste of picture audiences can be gauged by
the fact that there was not a single “indus-
trial” film in the bunch and only four of
scenery, • And practically all Yank! I
wouldn’t be a film censor for a stall seat on
Judgment Day.
From London :—-
Old Melbourne man Oswald Stoll must be feeling
sorry he parted with £55,000 for the Opera House,
the big palace built and abandoned by New York
Jew Hammerstein. The Alhambra and the Coliseum
under Stoll’s direction are constantly crowded, but
no matter how he tries he cannot persuade the
public to patronise the other. He has tried the ex-
periment of transferring for a week the whole of a
highly-successful Coliseum programme to the L.0.H.,
but it didn’t work. The artists who performed to
crowded houses twice a day at the Col. faced dreary
wastes at the Op. By the way, Stoll has just had
trouble with his musicians. They demanded a big
rise in wages to meet increased cost of living. Stoll
said he couldn’t, so they struck, and now their places
in his half-dozen London Variety houses are occupied
by women, of whom no less than 2000 applied. The
drummer at the Coliseum .gets £7 10s. a week —
twice the screw of the first fiddler. He didn’t strike.
He was the only one at the Col. who didn’t.
Vachell, author of “Quinney’s,” continues
to work overtime. Recently two more dramas
dropped off the end of his pen, making half
a dozen for about a year’s work. One of
the new nieces, bearing the odd title of “Mr.
Jubilee Drax,” was expected at the London
Haymarket last month. The other, “Mrs.
Pomeroy’s Reputation,” is Violet Vanbrugh’s
principal excuse for a tour of the “provinces.’'
“Melb” : I don’t know what Allen Doone
chops out of Mack’s “Tom Moore,” written
by Sayre, an American, but certain it is
that, as acted by Mack in Australia, the
play could not be staged in London now.
George IV. appeared in it, as Prince of
Wales, with his wife, Mrs. Fitzherbert.
Directly George V. came to the throne, a
ukase went forth that there was td be no
mention of George IV. on the English stage.
There had been an enormous amount of
George matter thrust upon managers and
publishers. In particular the Americans
shot in three comedies which had long been
acted and approved in the United States.
One was “Tom Moore,” another “The Fourth
George,” and the third the well-constructed
“Beau Brummell,” by Fitch, I think. Mase-
field protested against the Chamberlain veto-
ing a play he submitted, with only an
oblique and highly complimentary reference
to George. “Never mind,” said the careful
official, “there is not to be any reference at
all.”
I DO NOT ASK FOR MISTLETOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the delightful old customs associatwl w'tli
Christmas such as the kissing beneath the mist e
toe, seem to be forgotten in Australia. •.
—Complaint of a woman writer.
A splendid ev’ning gilded by the moon ;
A beat of music pulsing in the air ;
Life in a tender passion half a-swoon
Where waters of an endless longing croon ,
And you yourself the ecstasy to shaie,
While hours in spendthrift beauty come and go
I do not ask, dear heart, for mistletoe !
Or any other staging of our play
Will do, perchance. ’Twill not be drab, I know,
While love-lights in your eyes can make it gay,
And the soft wings of joyance brush away
All mundane thoughts, and bid all troubles go,
Taking the joys life offers as they flow ;
I do not ask, dear heart, for mistletoe.
To old delightful customs still I cling ;
They make life sweet; but when our high-keyed
hearts
Are tuned in Love’s sweet carnival to sing,
And all the dross of life' aside we fling,
We need no paltry cue to act our parts;
While lips to lips in happy passion go,
What is the need, dear heart, for mistletoe? •
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Australia has at least one sovereign that
hasn’t been borrowed. The unique coin was
dug up in a garden at Mudgee (N.S.W.)
lately and bears date 1782. It looks quite
young after its long rest —-and just as well,
for there’s plenty of work waiting for it.
When the Scaddan Government went fish-
ing off the Westralian coast it probably
reckoned on losing a sinker or two and a
couple of hooks; but Colebatcli (Colonial
Secretary) has discovered that it lost all
its tackle and its basket and then fell over-
board and was drowned. All the capital
invested (£6000) was provided without
Parliamentary authority by the issue of 4
p.c. Treasury bills, redeemable in two years
—and the time is up in six months. To
meet them there is a deficit of £7OOO, and
an Inspector of Fisheries who reports
gravely that “there is no prospect of im-
provement.” The little steamers that were
bought to bring the fish from Shark’s Bay
on ice were quite unsuitable, but the main
cause of the insolvency was that “fish can-
not be trusted to bite, within the regular
hours allotted to State employees.” A sort
of conspiracy, no doubt, to down the Labor
Government.
* ' * * *
“Webfoot”: Various Melbourne and sub-
urban Bungs have suffered by this lurk.
Shortly after five Q’clock, on Saturday for
choice, a shrewdie buys four bottles of ale of
a specified brand. A few minutes before 6
p.m., in the thick of the closing-time rush,
he hurries back with three bottles, explains
that the contents of the ‘fourth have been
drunk, and asks that the three be changed
for a trio of another brand. Bung accedes,
and later finds that the bottles for which the
new brand has been exchanged contain
water. Shrewdie has decanted them, re-
placed the capsules with skill, and trusted
to the rush to escape. Now that the gaff
has been blown the trick will lose its vogue,
but pubs in other places might keep their
eyes skinned.
Art is at a low ebb in Melbourne, and ser-
mons in stones are a drug in the market. A
Richmond constable found Horace Pearson
sitting on the pavement beside three pictures
upon which lay a meagre dole of pence. The
pictures, which were those of the usual pave-
ment artist, represented King George, Billy
Hughes, Andy Fisher and a fat mine-owner,
behind whom was a collier with a pick. Iu
reply to the Law, Horace said that he
couldn’t go to the war himself, so he had
drawn the pictures to induce others to go.
Apparently the Richmond lads showed no
disposition to exchange one form of fright-
fulness for the other, for on seeing Horace's
art they simply grinned and bore it. Being
doubtful whether a charge of being a recruit-
ing-sergeant without a license would lie,
John proceeded against Horace for having-
used the footpath for purposes of Art con-
trary to the local by-law, and it cost ss.
“Jobber” : Some hardcase Billjims hated to
spend real money when travelling through
Egypt. One of the best bluffers I met rushed
on the train, with a cobber who had a ticket,
at the last moment. When the collector
came through he produced a field-service post-
card, and the nigger examined it very closely.
When Bill thought his game was suspected
he grabbed the card and “roared the nigger
up,” threatening to report the matter to the
General. He dined on the train, on the
strength of an order on the G.O.C. for 30
“disasters.” Coming back an old typed leave-
pass put him right with the ticket-examiner,
but, unfortunately, he struck the same waiter
in the dining-car, and as he hadn’t any more
wastepaper with him he had to surrender.
Bill could cross Asia with a whisky label
and four cigarette cards.
*■/*■**
“Y.Z.”: People rarely think of picture-
buying as a good spec. Yet I know of one or
two private collections in Melbourne which
have trebled their value in a few years. I
saw a small lot of little Hilder pieces for the
first time the other day. The prices indi-
cated leaps and bounds from the modest
values the artist put on his stuff when alive ;
but even at the present rates one could buy
Hilders with the absolute certainty of the
lovely little paintings doubling and redoub-
ling their value in 10 years. Lindsay’s
water-color experiments with the human
figure soaked in sunshine are so individual
and so clever that —assuming Australia is to
be spared to the unfettered pursuit of her
art—they represent a better investment for a
rainy day than gold or precious stones. As
a mere man of business, I am thinking of
forming a syndicate to buy up all the N.L.
water-colors, and then commission a cheap
assassin to knock the artist admiringly on
the head. There is money in Australian art
tempered "with assassination.
* * * *
The fine distinction between a false state-
ment and a false promise was nicely drawn
in Sydney latelv. A man, using another
name, sent a telegram to himself, and on the
strength of the news it purported to contain
induced a Sydney publican to accept a post-
dated cheque for'£l2, and give him £3 4s. 6d.
change. When the cheque was presented on
the due date it was found to be an interest-
ing but valueless scrap of paper. Without
troubling the jury his Honor pointed out
that the intimation that the money would be
at the bank at a future date was not a false
statement, but a false promise, and there-
fore —being about something in the future —•
could not be a false pretence. Naturally the
publican was delighted. It was worth
£3 4s. 6d. of anybody’s money to see a Judge
do juggling tricks like that.
* * * *
“Nulla” : Glenbrook tunnel, on the West-
ern Line (N.S.W.), which has been scratched
off the railway map as a result of recent
deviations, hasn’t ceased to be a permanent
and reproductive work. A Japanese firm has
leased the hole in the Blue Mountains, and
will presently instal machinery for regulating
the temperature. Then the job of. mush-
room-culture will be started scientifically.
Writer has paid 4s. a pound for the fungus in
Sydney, and there should be money in the
business.
“O. K.” : Daylesford (Vic.), the once vol-
canic district which abounds in mineral
water and subterranean gases, is again dis-
cussing the question of the Hepburn' Spring
and the exploitation thereof by a much-mis-
trusted company. The spring that lost its
bearings some five years ago and was
thought to be gone forever is now a sud-
denly-returned wanderer, flowing through the
old original hidden waterway and gushing
from its rocky outlet at the rate of 300 gal-
lons an hour or more. Now, as heretofore,
the trouble is that the Hepburn Spring
doesn’t come directly into the Pavilion where
the public gets its free drinks, but is inter-
cepted by the precious co. which has a
bottling shanty at the back of the Pavilion,
and pays a paltry £BO a year rent to Dayles-
ford Town Council for the right of doing
what it pleases in the way of sinking wells
and laying traps to catch the natural gas
from the spring ere it reaches the public
outlets. Hepburn folk, and visitors who
flock to the Pavilion, get the water in fact
not by the grace of God, but by grace of a
mysterious band of exploiters. And the
Daylesford district naturally objects to get-
ting its gift from God after a gang of mostly-
politicians have sweated a dividend out of it.
“McNorth”: A Queensland regulation
says a selector may not take up a sea-
frontage exceeding in length two-thirds of
the depth of his lease. I said this was a
handicap to cocoa nut-growing '; whereat
“D.C.8.” scoffed (B. 19/10/T6), pointing
out that as the palms flourish a hundred
miles from the coast in Ceylon and other
places, proximity to the sea is not an im-
portant matter. I don’t deny that cocoa-
nuts will flourish inland. In fact, I believe
that the importance attached to the saline
air is much over-rated. But that’s not the
point. A feature of the littoral of Northern
Australia is a belt of fertile scrub-land
facing the ocean, with a heap of useless
country behind. This back country is gener-
ally. swampy and sour, and would certainly
not grow cocoanuts. That being so, it is
ok/ious that a regulation compelling the
would-be planter to take up a lot of land
utterly useless for his purpose is a serious
drag to an industry that people are just
beginning to inquire about. The pioneer
planters don’t want to select away inland
when suitable soil can be obtained near the
beach. With a wise land policy a great
future lies before the copra industry in the
Far North, I am sure. The trees bear
better, and often sooner, than in any other
part of the world. I am in the business, and
I know.
* * * *
“F.W.W.’V The time-payment system for
agricultural machinery ought to be objection-
able but it has its advantages. “Well, my
boy,” says old Harrow, “it’s this way. If I
pay cash, the bloomin’ agent don’t know me
again till he thinks it’s near wore out, and if
it goes wrong I can yell as hard as I like for
an expert without gettin’ him. But, if I
pay a deposit an’ the thing breaks or jibs, I
just go to the agent an’ tell him that if an
expert ain’t along quick an’ lively I’ll drag
his bloomin’ old rattletrap back into the
yard an’ get a new one somewhere else. If
you can talk like that, there’ll be an expert
going out every time with you. The bit
extra you pay for terms is a good insurance.”
# * * *
John Higgins, the Melbourne auditor who
holds the scales between the Government
and the Prahran city council, discovered this
item while making his annual tour of in-
spection : “Motor-vehicles for funeral,
£6 10s.” In the same stack of vouch-
ers was another interesting record:
“Addresses to ex-councillors, £21.” Both
impudent claims on the ratepayers’ purses
were promptly thrown out; so the
kindly Victorian councillor-soul who wants
to mourn with those that mourn, either by
going to the funeral in a motor-car or by
presenting an address over a glass of hiccup,
will in future have to be a kindly soul on a
smaller scale.
* * * *
A POET’S FRIGHTFULNESS.
[For The Bulletin.]
Full often in the past the wolf
Had howled outside my door—
A thing that it is wont to do
To rhyming wights and others, Who
Both lowly are and poor.
Upon reprisals I resolved,
And got a notion cute.
Its visits now are rare indeed,
For when it comes I promptly read -
Some verses to the brute.
Victoria. HARRISON O.
THE VOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ever he passes my door;
Ever in pain he goes' by—
Passes and sobs, and no more.
Oh, but I shrink from that cry 1
Fainter and fainter it grows;
Wailing he goes on his way —-
Wails that now beat me like blows.
Ne’er at my door does he stay.
What are the words he repeats,
Sung like a dirge to the dead,
Echoing down the long streets,
Throbbing like pain through my head?
What is the boon that they crave—•
Always those words, and no more;
Hollow, like sounds from the grave;
Echoing in at my door?
Must he go on with his rote?
Plaintively moan till Death stops,
Choking the cry in his throat,
With a last gurgling: “Props ! Clothes
Props !”
N.S.W.
INVER G.


V
/
%
(F.
JUST
AG
GOOD
Ijlf]
|iM II
'! I!
WSS
A
U-.
wow
■':! i-A I 'l Ilf II HI
“NEW LAMPS FOR OLD!”
Aladdin Series
No. 9.
The Disguised Bad Uncle prevails upon Aladdin’s Mother to exchange her B.T.H. MAZDA Lamp
for an inferior imitation.
m
0
m
“Mazda House,’' Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
ciT T v3M» H ( T,f™„, Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Etd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Clias. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents —
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Cnbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie. Street, Hobart.


■BKras
m
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shoe Hook, Lift and
Glove Hook, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,. 8/6.
With Shoe Lift and Button Hook only, 7/6.
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure Silver-plated, u
quality, hand engraved, “Ribbon” design, with lock and key, Silk
lined, £3/10/-
Glove Box, to match, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Perfume
Bottle, plain,
Solid Silver Mount,
. Crystal Cut Glass
Bottle, 8/6.
Eagsssa^TSEiS
\
asSS
a
1
in
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Photo Frame, hand burnished,
plain design, Imperial size,
£2/10/-
Cabinet size, 25/-
NEW YEAR’S GIFTS
I
m
DH -
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, 5 pieces,
hand burnished, plain design, 45/-
Other styles, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
2%
is
L
as
W*
LLnwciplg:
%
A. Saunders’ _ Solid Silver Toilet Set, comprising
Lady’s Brush, Mirror and Comb, plain design, in Silk-lined
Case, £3/3/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney,
opp. Railway
Station.
A. Saunders’ Silver-plated Purse, beautifully bur-
nished. “Ribbon” design, with chain handle, inner frame
nicely lined, 21/ : ; pJ a in, 15/6.
Solid Silver, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-, up to £5.
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, hand engraved.
Pure Silver-plated Lid. Crystal fluted Glass Jar,
5/6.
Others, 7/6, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, “Ribbon”
design, with lock and key, silk lined, 35/.
Other styles, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
txjfVuna
Cures Eczema.
Frederick Street, Camperdown. Mr. S. Fielder,
-Randwick. Dear Sir, —I have received great benefit
from your Skin Cure “Exzerma,” for Prickly Heat
and Chafe, and I will be pleased to recommend it to
anybody I see suffering from the same distressing
trouble. — Ernest Bird.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick. g|_ 2j(j
SE
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing,
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRA T is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/2
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET EL
HERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
• MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Mkrrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana/ 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, V- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Beli/s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 8(1., AND ALL TIIE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of tiie Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
■
l
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
' EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about W'hich they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived;
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
|W BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.
Prof. Fowier ? s Human Science,. 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/-. posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working' for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-.' How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wanxan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWF-Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS,, MONEY ORDER, Oj
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine,' 1/3. Old Bush Songs. 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. Ti-ie Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


'£sSS&?i
m
«•
fe'A
: ;
a
SZ 0
0
filwi&ftlL
■
«
raw
Within the Law
All traffic laws, rules and regulations are becoming
more rigid every day.
This is as it should be. Safety first.
All the more reason for having the best speedometer
on your car - the Stewart Speedometer.
Without one you unconsciously break the law,
because no motorist can possibly estimate the speed of his
car without a speedometer.
Unless you do drive at a speed within the law, you
are liable to the embarrassment of arrest, the humiliation
of a trial and the possibility of a heavy fine.
Do not smile. It might happen to you any day, as
it has to thousands of others.
This magnetic speedometer is especially built for
Ford and other small-type cars.
Price only £3/10/- complete.
Priced low on account of our great production.
Why not get one and keep within the law?
Stewart products on a car are your safest
guide as to the quality of a car as a whole.
Most cars are so equipped . in selecting your
next car try to have it equipped with a Stewart
Tyre Pump, Stewart Warning Signals, Stewart
Vacuum System and Stewart Speedometer,
it will cost you nothing more.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Garages, or write
Bennett Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W.
“No car is better than its accessories.”
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd,
Governing Director HUGH 1). McINTOSH.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATT NEKS WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
TIVOLI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Grand Reappearance of
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK CANNOT, GEORGE
WELCH, WALTER WEEMS, THELMA RAYE,
DAISY and SYDNEY YATES, LADY-SEN-MEI,
BILLY REGO, and others.
Plan at Glen’s.
UER MAJE ST Y ’ S, S Y I) N E Y.
• 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Return of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
including FLORENCE YOUNG, with
THIS CINEMA STAR.
Most Resplendent of the Theatrical Firmament.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
/CRITERION TIIEA T R E, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, DEC. 30.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce FLORENCE
ROCKWELL, FRANK HARVEY; and an able Com-
pany of Dramatic Associates, in
TJJE HOUSE OE GLASS.
By MAX MARCIN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
THE A T R.E ROYAL, SYI)N E Y.
1 Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
RETURN OF THE POPULAR BERT BAILEY CO.
A GREAT CHRISTMAS PRODUCTION.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY.
The Absorbing Anglo-Australian Comedy-Drama,
JUST A GIRL.
By CHARLES GARVICE.
p.ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Holiday Matinees as Usual.
Return of J. & N. TAIT’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY -
in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
The most popular of all plays. Plans at Nicholson’s.
W lIIT E CI T Y
TO-NIGHT.
7.30 to 11.
Garden theatre,
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction DANDIES, Ltd.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
ĥ
T HIANGLE PLAYS AT
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.in.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session : !
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J.
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Mir,mat, Managini
West's Ltd.,
D. Williams
Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
M'he F’inest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
\V. Harrington Miller, Managing Director.
EK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and II-
Tll EAT R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous
Propagandist Play,
DAMAGED GOODS.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
Amusements.
pitINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE,
* Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
First Appearance of the ALLAN WILKIE CO. in
1110 HA It D TIL
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
INC.’S THEATRE. MELBOURN E.
Lessees... .Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Miss KATE HOWARDE presents an absorbing New
and Original 4-act Drama,
THE WHITE SLAVE TRAFFIC.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
ARCADIA, ST. KLLDA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
THE PINK DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen’s
and Habers’.
*y HE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
FOUR SESSIONS DAILY,
2, 3.30, 7.30 and 9.
E. J. CARROLL presents
WHERE ARE MY CHILDREN?
A forceful sermon in Moving Picture form.
Prices 6d. and 1/- during afternoon.
6d., 1/- and 2/- at night.
DIRCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
(TULLE R’S HOTEL. MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
NEXT-OF-KIN WANTED.
"THE Local Deputy Public Trustee, Dunedin, New
\ Zealand, requires information regarding
PATRICK LENNON, a son of Phillip Lennon, who
died at Dunedin on the 10th February, 1915. Any-
one having information regarding the missing
beneficiary is invited to supply particulars to -the
undermentioned, k. n . h. BROWNE,
Local Deputy Public Trustee,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
Business Notices,
q
THE FAMOUS
AMERICA'S STANDARD FOUR-CYCLE ENGINE
Marine Engine.
4 cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
Made by Kermath Mfg-. Co., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Simplest, Strongest,
Most Durable, Most Economical.
See one of these engines working.
It will convince you; it is the simplest in
design, the easiest to operate, the sweetest-
running, and, because of these qualities, it
costs you the least to keep up.
It is built with absolute precision, so that
repair parts (of which large supplies are kept
constantly in stock) fit with the utmost
accuracy.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OR CALL AT
Motor Showrooms: 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
TWICE
DAILY
2p.m.,8p.m.
WIRTHS* NEW
HIPPODROME
HAY MARKET
NOW
SHOWING
WILLIAM FOX PRESENTS AUSTRALIA’S PERFECT WOMAN,
ANNETTE KELL E 11 M ANN
in Ms Million Dollar Spectacle,
A DAUGHTER 01? THE GODS.
THE MASTER PANTOMIME OF ALL TIME.
Unequalled for gorgeous magnificence.
20,000 Gnomes, Fames, Battling Warriors and Beauties.
Transformations beggaring description.
Grown-ups will revel in its splendors—Children will find a realisation of their dreams of
Fairyland.
FULL OPERATIC ORCHESTRA UNDER THE BATON OF GUSTAV SLAPOFFSKI.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY. 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.
POPULAR PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Palings.
Note—“A Daughter of the Gods” will positively not be shown in the suburbs for at least six
months.
KELLER MAN IN SEASON


Hons Pictures
GEORCE3t
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
JBourke $t
Sydney <? Melbourne
The Picture ElocK
The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don’t. Men who drink
Thorne’s Whisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet —you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet'.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[2
BROOKS
have provided perfect and lasting
Saddle comfort for every cyclist
and motor cyclist—'whatever
his weight or build, what-
ever machine he rides.
OF ALL
DEALERS.
rs
POLITICAL
POINTS
One of the first things done by the
“National” Government of N. S. Wales —
the Government which says that this is no
time for party warfare and that the win-
ning of the war must be put first—was to
decide to compete in the market against the
war loans. The other States have left
their borrowings in the hands of the Com-
monwealth. The “National” Government of
the Nark State refused to do anything of
the sort on the ground that if it goes on its
own it will probably be able to grab a mil-
lion or two which might otherwise be sub-
scribed for war purposes. There is “patri-
otism” for you !
Hughes talks rubbish when he rails at the
Senate for dislocating the fiscal arrange-
ments of the Government and causing the
country to lose £50,000 in revenue—“and
this in war time.” What the Senate did was
to squelch an artful device by which the
Government was putting practically the
whole weight of the increase in income-tax
on to the smaller incomes, increasing the tax
on the £4OO man by 100 per cent., while an
income of £2OOO would pay only 25 per cent,
more. In preventing this inequity the
Senate was as much within its rights as
Hughes was in employing the majority which
follows him in the Reps, to perpetrate it.
And if the Senate by preventing a Govern-
ment from looting the less-affluent' taxpayer
catises it to lose £50,000, the answer is that
the tragedy is of Ministers’ own making.
THE SILVER BULLET.
SMITH (talking about the war): “Oh, well,
you'll find it's money makes the mare to
go!"
ROBINSON (who has just scored a had loss) :
“Not when your last few bob are on her,
old boy."
George Reid solemnly drowned the last
hair of the dry-dog the other day in London.
The Freetraders, he admitted, had no longer
even the dry bones of an argument to feed
the beast on.
Three or four months ago the talk in a
Maorilander’s dug-out turned on the chances
of getting a bit of land in Australia “after-
wards” ; and a letter was sent to The
Bulletin asking whether Billjim of Maori-
land would come in level with Billjim of
Australia iii any allotment of Australian
land. The Bulletin -didn’t know ; neither
did anybody else at the time. But the
Repatriation Committee got to work to find
out what the various Cabinets thought about
it, and now desires to inform this paper
“that the Governments of Vic., Queensland
and Westralia are prepared to offer to dis-
charged soldiers of other dominions the privi-
leges which will be extended to their own
men in regard to land settlement.” Which
seems to mean that the Government of the
old nark State of N. S. Wales is not pre-
pared to do anything of the kind.
DURING THE RAINS.
FIRST COVE : “Floods do any damage to
your place?"
SECOND COVE: “ Dunno! Ain't found it
yet.”
Once more. Is the Repatriation Fund
which the politicians talk of every now
and again mere bait on their hook? If it
isn’t, how comes it that the Returned Sol-
diers’ Association of N. S. Wales finds it
necessary to make statements like this:—
It is hard to realise that there are hundreds of
returned soldiers, many of whom saw last Christmas
in the trenches, who this year will find it hard to
secure a Christmas dinner. Yet such is the case....
We can vouch for the fact that there are hundreds
of our members out of work through no fault of
their own who have neither money nor credit. These
are genuine cases.
If the Repatriation Fund is the mere bait
of the politician, what has the Australia
Day Fund got to say for itself? Until this
matter has been gone into and satisfactorily
disposed the recruiting-committee might
just as well shut its doors. There is going
to be no recruiting worth tuppence so long
as it . is. possible for a Returned Soldiers’
Association, under the hand of the Dean
of Sydney/ to declare that hundreds of its
members, out of work, out of money, out'of
credit, didn’t lfnow where to turn for a
Christmas dinner.
The intensely patriotic N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment regards it as a mere idle rumor that
wool is grown in Australia and blankets are
made here. Hence early visitors to the new
and elaborate accommodation-house at Jenolan
Caves were not surprised to find themselves
under blankets bearing the legend: “Wool
and cotton —made in Japan.” Incidentally
the Government is wondering what is to
become of the 1200 men who have just been
sacked from unfinished N. S. Wales railway
works because there is no more loan money
to pay them with.
It is now suggested that a Commission be
appointed to inquire into the Northern Terri-
tory. Certainly! In fact, whenever a man
is appointed to a Government job a Commis-
sion should be also appointed to start out on
his trail 10 minutes after he has got off the
mark. Two men, in short, for each job: one
to do It, and the other to tell why it hasn’t
been done.
J. H. Cann, Minister for Works in the
Holman Government before the Grab, and
a miner before that, fell out of the Leg.
Assembly last week into the job of drawing
£l2OO a year as a N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioner. It is one of the worst scandals ever
perpetrated in Australia. Sydney Telegraph
sorrowfully remarks that the “experiment
has to justify itself by results.” There are
no results that can justify so flagrant an
outrage, upon every principle which should
govern public appointments.
Lloyd George to the House of Commons:
The cost of the war is increasing. We must be
careful of every pound.
Of course, lie means every pound that is left
after Australia has had' what it wants tor
building ornamental lakes at Canberra and
monkey-cages and merry-go-rounds at the new
Sydney Zoo.
Amongst the delegates to the Inter-State
Labor Conference which met the other day to
__ .. L.. tliA nlof-
make repairs to the plat-
form that’ the dingoes
had bitten there was
only one politician (Sen-
ator Jupp Gardiner)
from N. S. -Wales and
none from Victoria.
Queensland sent two
legislators amongst its
bunch, South Aus. and
Westralia three each,
and Tasmania five. In
the biggest States Labor
has revolted against the
domination of the poli-
tician. and now insists
on keeping him merely
as a machine to register
the views of the move-
ment in Parliament. But
a more direct and less
degrading method would
be to make a far wider
use of the initiative and
referendum, leaving the
politician—much reduced
in numbers not a
machine to register
views, but an expert to
settle details.
The leader of Vic-
toria’s new Economy
Party is the quaintly-
named Bowser, represen-
tative of Wangaratta.
Bowser’s ideas on re-
trenchment can be gauged
by his Parliamentary
statement that the coun-
try gets a fair return
from the money spent on
the Government Printing
Office—the institution which sends out tons
of never-read papers every year. Not that
that is all the fault of the Printing Office.
The twaddling inefficients who control the
Departments are almost wholly responsible
for that.
N.S.W. Billions Club, in anticipation of the
nation being someday plunged into peace, is
bombarding Hughes with exhortations “to
give the question of immigration his earnest
attention.” But there are at least two other
questions which come first. Talk about
immigration can be nothing but blither until
the conditions are such that when the immi-
grant arrives he can either get (1) a job or
(2) easy access to land at a price within
the reach of the kind of man who immigrates.
As Australia says it has to borrow cash in
order to give the father of the local kid a
job, while it is hopelessly fumbling with the
problem of settling a few thousands of its
own soldiers on the land, nothing is solved
by merely chattering about immigration.
Amongst other things lost sight of in the
war turmoil may be included the Inter-State
Commission. The entrance to its magnilo-
quently styled “Court” in Albert-street, East
Melbourne, is festooned with cobwebs. There
is the usual staff of clerks and messen-
gers on full salaries, but it is comatose, dor-
mant, doped. Mr. Commissioner Piddington
has spent much time writing to the papers
giving advice about peace terms; Mr. Com-
missioner Lockyer has melted into thin air ;
Mr. Commissioner Swinburne helps the
Federal Treasurer to discriminate between
industrial good things and mining wild
cats. Meantime the country spends many
thousands a year on itj and the best proof
that the money is utterly wasted is that,
after the Commission has been in existence
nearly four years, Australia now spends
more money on foreign goods than ever it
did.
At last week’s meeting of Melbourne
Working Men’s College it was asserted that
some of the boys at the Junior 'lechnica
School cannot afford to pay for their books.
The question is: Can they get them without
paying? Surely no aspiring work-boy is
allowed to miss any of the technical educa-
tion he is seeking for want of the price ot
school-books!
Cabled from Berlin last week that the
Socialist organ Y'orwaerts violently attacks
Premier Massey, of Maoriland, for prolong-
ing the war. Poor, inoffensive old Bill, who
never in his life said anything more truculent
than that the Empire would stand shoulder
to shoulder, and John Bull could have all
the cheese he wanted from the Taranaki
cockies at BM. a pound!
How curiously alike, in some respects,
present conditions are to those of 25 years
ago. Then, as now, the disappointed under-
dog, who had been previously told that there
was not going to be any under-dog, rebelled
against his political bosses. Then it was
the Labor party that was created to dis-
place the old Radicals'; to-day it is the
Labor party which, having been corrupted,
has to go through the fire. Further, there
was then a small crowd which could see no
hope in old methods, just as there is the
I.W.W. to-day. After all, it isn’t fair to
assume from the existence of the I.W.W.
that the working-man is getting more des-
perately wicked. Apparently, judging by
the semi-hysterical measures of men who
were Labor leaders till the other day, these
people think there never was such an out-
burst before. But there was. In 1892
this proclamation was pretty widely circu-
lated among the dockers and others of Lon-
don :—•
To carry out our aims brutal force is absolutely in-
dispensable. It is absolutely necessary to burn the
churches, palaces, convents, barracks and prisons and
to destroy without mercy all who are opposed to us.
Let us occupy ourselves with chemistry. Let us
manufacture bombs, dynamite and other high explo-
sives, which are more efficacious than guns, to bring
about, the destruction of our enemies and spare the
blood of our comrades. Call us criminals, vermin,
call us what you will, shower your hard names upon
us, but do not be surprised if your houses are shat-
tered with dynamite, and then when we strike at you-
without ruth and without mercy do not whine for
pity, for it will be useless.
Then the Labor party arrived to give the
under-dogs new hope; and the doctrine of
despair went to sleep for another 20 years
or so.
THE OBJECT PURSUED.
JIM : “I could see 'e wuz after something.
Bill, hut I thought it wuz rahhits .”
RESURRECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
In perfect order still they come,
With, play of fife and roll of drum,
Like irises their flags abound ;
Fresh leaping from the bloody ground,
The stern-eyed soldiers, cold and mute,
Come on, so young, so resolute.
And ever as the front ranks fade
New armies from the vapor made
Rise up behind, as shadows may,
Grow straight and solid for the fray.
Where innocents were slain in flight
Battalions ripen in the night.
The Kaiser turned. Again he saw
The victims of his bestial law,
The red blood of his sacrifice,
The thrice-stabbed sire, the trampled wife;
And whispei'ing, “Mein Gott,” he said,
“See how prolific are the dead!”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
THE GREAT GOD RENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The garden paths around the city rise,
The asters bloom on many an ordered lawn
Beneath the cobalt blue of generous skies,
And warmed by sunbeams from the gates of dawn;
Wide orchards yield a fruitage rich and rare,
And fairest gifts by Nature’s skill are sent....
And haggard women gaunt and worn are there,
Wan sacrifices to the great god Rent.
The snow-winged yachts in conscious swiftness steer
Along the silver of the moving tide;
Plumed with grey smoke, the ferry-boats appear,
Crossing with tireless keels the waters wide ;
Fair are the white-bayed shores and coves as though
The spirit of beauty dwelt there, well content....
And here are lanes of hovels, drab and low,
The sordid altars of the great god Rent.
In all the .world there is no fairer place
Than this broad city by the harbor deep,
Where Nature clothes her in her rarest grace
And Beauty loves her festal days to keep!
Sure in the world there is no fairer place! ■
But here, aye even here, Hell finds a vent
And lowers and scowls on many a sullen face
Where helpless bond-slaves feed the great god Rent.
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMERTY.


/»
m
%
as
h
Library Grand.
CABINET: Mahogany ;
brass gilt fittings; in-
ternal horn of special
metal which enhances
the tone; wooden
grille and needle bowl.
Under the horn is a
chamber for storing-
-72 records.
MECHANISM: Double-
spring spiral-drive
motor; 12in. turn-
table ; new automatic
brake and speed indi-
cator ; “His Master’s
Voice” tapering tone-
arm with patent.
“Gooseneck”; “Exhi-
bition” soundbox.
Satin Finish Mahogany,
£4O.
Smaller Model, similar to above, in Oak, Type
G.8.A.0.
Price - - £35.
Paling's*.
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
Gramophones.
Hornless
Austral
No. 3
Improved
1916 Model.
£ll.
ĥ
Come to PALING’S for GRAMOPHONES.
We stock the latest type of machines—Jable
Grands, Cabinet and Hornless styles to choose
from. For home, camp,yacht or open=air use. No
matter what kind of music you require, we have
THOUSANDS of RECORDS to CHOOSE FROM.
Table
Grand—
Zealand
No. 3
Improved
1916 Model.
£l4/5/-
:
ħ
Table Grand
The Tasman
No. 2
Improved
1916 Model.
£l6/10/-
h
£7/15/
Hornless
Excello
No. 3
Improved
1916 Model.
£7/15/-
ir-
Please send
for Record
Lists, Price
Lists and
Catalogues.
Post Free.
PALING’S,
338 Georg'e St., Sydney.
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba and Lismore.
Sole Agents for CHAPPELL, SAMES, ESTEY & VICTOR PIANOS.
n
id
*4l
m
y?
I'' j
1
-a.
✓
«<
PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS an i WORKMANSHIP
ĥ
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
B
5 :
THE “ SKANDIA ” IN WEST AUSTRALIA
PEARLING SCHOONER—3O=h.p. “SKANDIA.”
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street!
SYDNEY.
A Gift Worth Having.
You cannot imagine a more acceptable Gift for the man
who shaves than
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
It keeps a keen edge longer than any other, and you
can rely on it year in, year out.
PRICE 10/6— post tree.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcan :e Handle, 10/6.
Pair in jJouble Case, 217-
Single Ra:or, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Doublo Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
The “Plum” Razor.
An Old and Trusted Friend
with Hundreds of Shavers.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
It is literally true that petrol,
oil and tyres are practically the
only expense.
This is not merely an advertising
expression. It is a fact. The
parts rarely have to be- renewed.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers, Detroit
Messrs. 'Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Cheney Motor Company Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Co-operative Motors, Ltd.,
Hobart.
Messrs. Magnus, Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington.
Mr. George Henning,
Auckland.
Mr. Newton . King.
New Plymouth.
Messrs. Hawkes. Ltd.,
Christchurch
Messrs. Cossens & Black Ltd.,
Dunedin
Mr. P. H. Vickery,
Invercargill.


1917 dawns bright with the hope of the
final overthrow of Hun devilism. That this
may be early realised is the bright hope
inspired by that wise spirit King George IY.
topnotch Scotch. —advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Vilest Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARPIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Why Look Old?
You need not use hair dye to conceal grey hair.
Grey hair adds years to anyone’s appear-
ance. The objections to dyeing the hair are
too numerous and too obvious to mention.
Few people are aware that a simple, old-
fashioned recipe, that can be made up at
home, will quickly turn grey hair back to a
natural color without injuring the hair in
any way. One has only to get two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite from the chemist
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
With a small sponge apply the lotion to the
hair for a few nights and the desired change
will have been neatly accomplished. This
simple formula has given great satisfac-
tion for generations to those in possession of
it. —Advt. [°
ħ
TRY IT lIM YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
H-M.
TO
THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chernists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
h
SPOSRTING
NOTIONS
Results of the New Year’s meeting at
Flemington next Monday are not unlikely to include
some striking reversals of the form at Caulfield on
Boxing Day. The whole lot of entrants for the Ilope-
toun Cup at the V.A.T.C. meeting are available for
the Bagot Handicap at the V.R.O. fixture. And most
of the starters for the Standish Handicap flutter will
have been seen out on Boxing Day. It is safer to
expect reversals rather than endorsements of Christ-
mas-holiday form, but there is no fixed rule on the
subject.
* * * *
It’s good to huve a few bob on a nag
when it wins as Balarang did the A.J.C. Highweight
Handicap on Saturday. He started favorite, and all
the afternoon was touted a good tiling provided he
condescended to leave the barrier smartly. It came
off right enough. Balarang- hopped out, and before
a furlong had gone was sailing along in front. The
further the others went the further Balarang left
them behind. He won pulling up by eight lengins,
having carved out the six furlongs in lmin. 12.[sec.
—good going with Bst. 111 b. in the saddle. This
was the nag’s first win since a Ilawkesbury meeting
nearly 12 months ago, and the manner in which
he galloped on Saturday suggested that he might
secure anything he happened to be turned loose after.
* * * *
The Robinson stable at Randwick seems
to always have a horse capable of winning a race.
Tony, winner of the A.J.C. Trial Handicap, owned and
trained by Robinson, was not fancied much and
started at 10 to 1. Incidentally he downed Sam
Hordern’s Sir Paddington by a head. Tony won
at Moorefield a few weeks back, so that by this
time he has partly made up for previous failures
when solidly backed. This particular race was a
sad sight for punters. Black Nutjla red-hot favorite,
was left standing at the post apd''beat only a couple
home. '** '
* « * *
A fortnight ago this page advised punters
not to forget that Wedding Day was as compact a.
little hit of horse as had been seen lately in these
parts. On Saturday at Randwick the lady appro-
priated A.J.O. Viliiers Stakes from a fair field.
After going a furlgng she was second last, and was
not sighted at the, bottom of the straight. But from
there on she commenced putting in tremendously long
strides and hit the front 50 yards from home. Had
Royal Laddie, who ended up secdlid, won, Ike would
have hurled his liat over the grandstand in delight,
for the Laddie’s noinina.l price vvas 100 to 1 and
no takers. The winder was at 15’s. Most of the
cash went on Carine, who got a bad passage and
finished fifth. 7
* * * *
After many days and many tries last
year’s three-year-old boom, Wallace Isinglass, came
ito light in the Grandstand Stakes on Saturday, and
3 to 1 was the best the crowd could get on the
animal on whom they had lost, money' consistently.
Wallace carried 9st. 51b. and had a rather ordinary
field to beat. He had to be ridden right but to get
ahead of- The Fortune Hunter, and that is an animal
which up to the present no one has won a fortune
with. The Stakes running brought Wallace Isinglass
into much demand for the Summer Clip, a race
in which the public frequently stumbles over its
feet during the rush to Israel. And this time Wal-
lace didn't win again. The Hunter arrived first.
* - * * *
Some of the horses had none of the luck
(ill the first day of the A.J.C. meeting. In the
Nursery Handicap the Fortafix filly Fortuna was
backed down to 2 to 1 in a field of 22, and the
public stood ready to sprint towards Ikey and collect.
But they didn’t do it. Rounding the turn Fortuna
came down and gave light-weight Dempsey a had
shaking. The filly was so much damaged that she
will never race again. In the Trial Handicap the
Denison-owned mare Australienne, winner of a race
at Warwick Farm a. week before, turned a seven
and had to be shot. Queerly enough both animals
suffered the same injury—a smash of the near knee.
It is an unusual kind of accident at any time; a
double on the same afternoon is uncanny.
* _ * •'* *
A casual inquiry as to the biggest weight
ever carried on a racecourse has. set the London sport-
ing papers digging up records. All recent figures
were soon overshadowed, and it becomes a question
of sheer cruelty to animals, perpetrated by 19th
century “sports.” Owners up, catch-weights, over a
course —sometimes with fences —was the usual form
of the outrage. For a time, Sir John Astley's 16st.
61b. seemed to hold top place. His horse, Drumhead,
was never any good again, says one writer. Quite
wrong, says another ; it did some good racing after
that, but broke down during another “match” with
16st. 101 b. up. And now someone has discovered
that, about 1860, an 18st. owner named Malcolmsoh
was taken on by Captain Macliell and another, who,
to make a match against his 18st., agreed both to
ride on one horse. They scaled together 22st. 51b.,
put an unhappy horse over a two-mile course under
that cruel burden, and won (of course) a “substantial
sum.”
* * * *
Has anyone heard a proprietary racing-
club or Ikey or anyone like that moaning because
daylight saving will root them out of bed an hour
earlier? Under this scheme it will be light in the
vicinity of midsummer until nearly nine o’clock o’
nights, and if that doesn’t result in the breeding
of mokes being given greater encouragement by
tacking a race or two on to present programmes —•
well it ought to. There would seem now to be
nothino- to prevent tlje pony crowd having .25 races
per day and running little evening scrambles from
5 to 8 30 —say a dozen events —in between times.
**..**
“Mujik”: It is the silliest thing in the
world to imagine that the punter is going to find the
winner any more frequently when he drops the elu-
sive quid on the tote that when he handed it to
Ike. The best he can look for is that when he does
discover the animal the cash return will be gieatei
than it would be if he made a successful bet with
Israel. When he locates a loser the quid is gone m
either case. Among Maoriland punters the most
agonising moments of life are when they drop coin
on Hardpull while the machine shows about 10 to 1,
and after about 10 minutes ecstasy discover that
the multitude is on the same lurk and the wretched
animal is being reduced to 6 to 4 on, or something-.
Then are they terrified lest the owner may repent of
his determination to have & cut; wherefore they
dash in to save the situation by backing Scooter,
and when Hardpull lands the bacon and they collect
a divvy of £1 ss. and balance the debit and
credit, their moaning is like the dirge of many
ravens.
* » * *
“Trot”; Yes, a book can keep on layin’
’em at tote odds till the cows come home, but only
on condition that he sees the machine. Otherwise
he must put a limit on the price or get blown sky-
high. In s.p. transactions depending on the tote
the backer’s object in life is to deter anyone from
putting a bean on his nag in the machine, for every
one that goes on reduces his prospective win from
the bookmaker by lessening the div. But Ike’s
. interests are in another direction altogether. He
wants to see as many quids as the machine will hold
dumped on to the animal he has a bet against.
Therefore when the owner of Blue Murder distributes
a couple of hundred among the obliging Ikes under
this system, he goes about miserably shaking his
head and remarking that his nag is suffering- from
blind staggers or something. Ike, however, circu-
lates the glad tidings far and wide that Blue Murder
is out for keeps, and the mqre ears which hearken
the- narrower the odds become and the safer the
bookie’s risk. Working inside 10 to 1 it is a nice
comfortable sort of business, like holding shares in
a brewery.
But conducting- operations on the full-dividend
scale is as dangerous as looking down a volcano.
The machine has a mean habit of occasionally
announcing that £ll7 is payable on something, and
• any prad that MaeShortodds lay 116 to 1
against would have to be acccgnpauie'd; by the sworn
declaration of a vet. that get out of a
walk; also it would have to he ridden by Ike’s
brother-in-law while Ike minded his purse. Now,
given a smart horse, a sufficiently lugubrious owner,
a remote meeting with the s.p. books a long- way
off and all the money which knew anything diverted
from the machine to Ike, a div. of £ll7 is an easy
thing to manufacture. But if Ike stood for ramps
like that he would discover before a week was over
that someone had torn the best end of half a million
from him and - That the Promised Land was b.eing
devoured by caterpillars.
* * * *
Westralian Turf Club’s enterprise in in-
stalling a Breeders’ Plate for Westralian-bred horses
received so much support that a whole three nags
were saddled for the cash. Green Lord (Green
Mountain —Lady Agnes) hadn’t much difficulty m
landing it. P. A. Connolly, who bred both Green
Mountain and Post Laddie (second), was the most
satisfied person on the course.
* * *■
“Nomad” : In 1878 I rode a liorse bred by
Halls, of Dartbrook, near Aberdeen (N.S.W.), from
Tamworth to Barraba and hack to Attunga station,
in 14 hours, including one hour’s rest at Barraba.
I left Tamworth at 6 a.m. and arrived at Attunga
at 8 p.m. -the same evening'. Total distance, 108
miles. Tijiie vehicle was purely grass-fed.
* 'I- * * *
'Jacli Juuesse parted with the bantam
championship on Saturday, and the decoration is
now worn by Vince Blackburn, of Balmain (Syd-
ney). The Victorian wandered north to interview
Blackburn on the subject a fortnight ago, and at
the end of a Monday-night disturbance the Stadium
referee gave judgment for usthe defendant. But _it
was such a close thing: arid the biff so scientific
that the pair were matched again for the end of
last weisk. They provided one -. of the best battles
ever seen at the Stadium —fast, hard and clean.
The Sydney boy changed his tactics this time and
carried - war to the enemy trenches from the start.
Janesse met the assault with a pair of beautifully-
educated gloves and nimble feet. He is a rare good
boxer and a fine strategist, but Blackburn carried
t6o much ginger and punched his way to victor,'.
Compared with some of the displays given by
lumbering individuals of greater tonnage the en-
counter between this pair of game-cocks was the
champagne of stoush.
'** * »
Mexican Benny Palmer started a revolu-
tion at Brisbane on Saturday with Ferdinand Quen-
dreaux as the opposition party. The Frenchman kept
something in reserve till the thirteenth clash ; then
he emerged with heavy artillery. Palmer kept plod-
ding away with straight lefts and, with 48sec. _to
go to knoeking-off time, collided with something-
leaden. That was the end of the revolution, and
mighty hard luck for Palmer, who had had the best
of every round.
’*-***
Darcy reached New York last week and it
is cabled that the vessel he travelled on was met
by six tugs in the vicinity of the Statue of Liberty,
and that six pug managers megaphoned their yells
about contracts. If Darcy didn’t forget to take
his grin with him he probably put it on when all
this noise smote the atmosphere. As it is stated
that he “went to Tex Rickard’s” headquarters there
’ seems reason to suppose that Tex had the loudest
yell. Anyhow, Rickard has been working up fights
for a long time and is probably able to offer most
money for a scrap.
* * * *
So when* Darcy fell into New York lie
was “reticent about his method of leaving Aus-
tralia.” In the name of Heaven, why ? Everyone in
the game knows how he got away, and what it cost ;
also, they can all tell the story of the honest indivi-
dual who pushed into the proceedings at the last
minute and earned a bit by threatening to give the
game away and yell for the Hops. How Darcy got
away over the back fence is of less importance than
why he chose that method of making a scoot.
* * * *
“J.J.C.” : Talking of walks, Jacky Ireland,
now town-crier of Gympie (Q.), strolled from
Cympie to Maryborough, about 67 miles, in one day,
and returned a day later. He did not consider the
matter of much moment. I met Malachi Ryan out-
side Camooweal en route for Pine Greek. He had
been for a jaunt to see his brother in Rockhampton,
and had done the round trip per hobnail express and
caught a lot of his tucker en route. Six hundred
miles or more, I should say. Next best was the
unknown Labor chap in Far West N. S. Wales who
some years ago walked from down near Menindie to
Bourke “to vote for Hughie Langwell.” Three hun-
dred miles or thereabouts that was.
* * * *
The hungry Australian bike-pushers are
still cleaning up the slate in Yankeeland, the more
recent success being in the American all-round cham-
pionship, in which R. J. McNamara (N.S.W.), Alf
Goullet (Vic.) and A. Grenda (Tas.) filled the places.
This wound up the Newark racing season. Con-
tinental and American riders scarcely picked up a
crust.
* * * *
The Bourke Cup, a race instituted by the
Tamar Rowing Club in ’B7, and carrying the Schools’
Championship of Tasmania, was won this year by
the Launceston State School No. 1 crew. Devon-
port High School was second. This was the first
year of the race in which no private schools com-
peted. The State High Schools (established by the
late. Premier Solomon) entered the race only four
years ago, and probably no one would have objected
to them rowing while they continued to tail the
other crews home. But the Launceston High School
crew had the cheek to win last year and add insult
to injury by going to Hobart and winning the
Clarke Challenge Cup. This is more than self-
respecting private schools could stand, and, as the
Tamar Rowing Club refused to bar the State schools,
Private Enterprise got the spike, instituted a race on
its own and hung out the imported title “Head of
the River” as a prize.
* * * *
Hooray! A beak at Wellington (M.L.)
has refused to fine anyone for playing golf on a
municipal reserve on Sunday. The view he took
was that the by-law framed by Bumble to restrain
the local citizen advancing to the tee with his kit
of ironmongery on the Sabbath morn was an unreas-
onable interference with the right of private judge-
ment. Meanwhile Stiggins is talking about taking
up a collection for an appeal to the Privy Council
and praying hard that the sinner may be bunkered
and the caddie vanish with the implements of
wrath.
.** * *
Cricket is dying rapidly in Westralia, but
a competition drags painfully onward and occa-
sionally'something happens. On the first two Satur-
days in December North Perth made 179, and dis-
missed Midland Swan for 74. In the follow-on
sundries made 11 of the 32 placed in the scorebook.
The machine-gunner of the attack was Hughes, who
took 6 for 28 and 5 for 10, clean-bowling all his
victims. Christian, who was prominent in Victorian
cricket 20 years ago, fathers North Perth. He
dashed up 76 (helped to put up 100 in 37 minutes
at one stage) and took 4 for 35 and 3 for 11. Le
Couteur, the Victorian Rhodes scholar, who did
things for Oxford and the Gents of England, bats
and bowls for the local University eleven.
* * * *
R. L. Park, the youthful Melb. ’Varsity
all-rounder, was one of
Victoria’s most promis-
ing cricketers until the
1-lun rubbed the edge
off the pastime. Park
found his first-class
punch in 1913-14 Shef-
field Shield, and it put
him into fourth place
(among 18 players)
with an average of
34.50 for eight in-
nings. Next year he
jumped still higher
with an average ot
55.4. Thrs season,
while his batting has
gone down, Park is
making the wickets
rattle. Against Prah-
ran he recently raked
in five wickets for 27 ;
but Melbourne batsmen
gave him something to
think over last week
by knocking up 75
while he was gathering
one wicket. Park is
very serious over
cricket —the right
brand of trier to make
good if there is any
more cricket on earth.
R. L. PARK,
(Vic.).
The brightest fish story of the season
comes from down south. Three Port Melbourne
anglers had their lines out from a 20ft. yacht
three miles off Point Cook. One of the party was
in the act of hauling in something big, when a shark-
made a dash for it. Probably annoyed at missing
the fish the shark struck the yacht with such force
that its snout made a hole in both the outer and
inside lining of the boat and then swam awav
to nurse its bruised proboscis. The hole was
plugged with a bag and the craft was taken to
Point Cook and run ashore. If anybody doubts the
yarn there’s the hole in the boat to prove it.
* * * *
Blown across the desert, a scrap of paper
fluttered into the tent of Captain John Kendall, of the
Australian Army Veterinary Corps, attached to the
Anzac Mounted Division (Chauvel’s crowd) in Egypt.
On that paper was Defence-Minister Pearce’s praise
of Australian horses —and for once Pearce was record-
ing the opinions of. somebody who knew what he was
talking about. The come-b.v-chance text has inspired
Kendail to write home a fine sermon. “For sheer
grit and endurance,” he says, “and for. quick recovery
after long marches, the Australian horse is far
superior to the British or Canadian. I have to super-
vise 11,0'CK) horses and mules and about 4000 camels.
One of our good, tough,’ bony-looking old nags is
ecii.al to any two of tne others. We were at times
36 hours without water, and then had only one drink,
very salty, and another long stretch. After these
trips one would see the horses of a complete unit
looking like hunted devils —completely exhausted. Yet
softer a good drink and feed they not only recovered
but brought, the men home. Our men are not light
fellows, and I fully anticipated that 3 per cent, of
the horses would have to be destroyed, that 10 per
cent, would die, and that 30 per cent, would have to
be sent to hospital, but I could find only about
eight horses per battery and 20 per regiment which
required attention. With all the system and particu-
lar mating of mares with sires which prevail in Eng-
land, our draughts, light draughts and gun horses are
admired by everybody, and have held their condition
the best. Of course’, the thoroughbred is needed in
the troop-horse, but the stout, rough cob is the lad to
fatten up quicklv again. With very little choosing of
matqs we can produce in Australia any kind of army
horse in larger numbers and cheaper than most coun-
tries. Mules, after this war, must come to stay in
Australia, for we have plenty of mares which will
breed good mules : and the mule can lick the horse
out of sight for everything except gun work. In guns
he is not so easily handled in teams when turning.
But mules are the’best packs in the world.”
“Murkah”: “Hay’s’’ fence-smashing ’roo
yarn (B. 30/11/T6) reminds me. It was at a
ing match. A hare got up at 1.45 and WSJ usual
customary hundred yards grace Ihi was f]
hare with ginger. She set off at top&n«s
the paddock. This course com-
and found to be U mile. The-fust lap was
pleted in lmin. 15sec., the dogs pitki | P J rcuit
yards. Then the speed warmed up, the m
occupying lmin. 9sec. (N° te ■ lo „. g we re
hare’s; deduct ,003 sec. for the dogs.) The dogs
now 90yds. in arrears, and it was expected if pus®
kept up y her clip, that the first turn would be taken
about 2.5 p.m. But the dogs eased a trifle,
the three succeeding laps (Imm 9sec., lm . Bsec.,
lmin lOsec respectively), the hare held hei o
Bets ‘were now being made that the ham would not
be turned before three o’clock, the speed during rxit
next four laps showed a slight reduction as Biegmng.
narticularly at the corners, was becoming somewnat
cut up. From here onwards the dogs which had been
galloping abreast, took turn about at leading. Thus
the following dog, avoiding the wind-pressure had a
comparative spell, and the speed increased. At 256
the excitement was intense. The dogs were practi-
cally in the vacuum left by the streaking hare, which
was now wearing* a strained appeal ance. lhe *
turn was expected any minute. Then the unexpected
happened. A terrific burst of hurriedness at one of
the corners carried the hare straight onward—smash
into a straining-post, 4ft. in the ground. With a
rending crash the strainer and about a chain of fenc-
ing on either side came out, postholes and all com-
plete. The impact revived the hare, which started
straight across country, with the dogs astern. the
chase must have bent around, as 25 minutes iatei a
dejected-lookine- hare and a couple of despondent hogs
were seen coming towards the spectators, the naie
galloped up to the strainer, which was hollow, and
clambered in; the dogs lay down at each end of the
log’; the sports reckoned the animals had earned a
vest, .settled their bets, and went home. It was a
great day’s sport. # *
“Bad Australian”: Another unusual
shooting experience. I was hunting for beef for a
crowd of “hoysenas,” as the poisoner called them, and
any of you who have lived for a solid month on
wallaby-tail stew ' with spuds and wonga, black
cockatoo and lyre-bird will understand the applica-
tion of the title. Presently I saw a couple of old
bulls and a mixed mob of 20 cows and young
cattle about half a mile away. They were as wild
as hawks, and after losing them twice I came across
them jogging down a long ridge about 600 yards
away. As they were making for the hop scrub and
brush on the creek bottom, and remembering the
state of mind of the “hoysenas,” I chanced the long
shot at a young cow. The only apparent effect
was an immediate stampede of the whole
outfit; but after going about 200 yards the cow-
stopped and began to turn slowly round and round,
and then sat down on her haunches, exactly as a
dog does, and started walking around herself with her
forelegs, using the butt of her tail as a pivot. When
I had administered the knock-out I found that my
first bullet had just chipped the top of the backbone
about six inches forward of the coupling, leaving the
spinal cord exposed. An inch higher, and it would
have been a miss.
On another occasion I was out with a double gun
—one barrel shot, the other ball-cartridge—when a
full-grown kangaroo hopped out of the bracken and
squatted on a ridge 80 or 90 yards off. I
snapped from the shoulder, and the Too leaped
sft. into the air, landed on his ear or thereabouts,
rebounded like a punchball, and set off as if he just
hated to be there at all. I picked up his tracks, and
found that he had been hit pretty severely. He left
gouts of blood on the dry fern, sticks and gum-leaves
at every jump. To my amazement I found several
small spots of brain or spinal matter mixed with the
gouts of blood. I followed the tracks until the blood-
spots cut out, and then went home to think it out.
That incident occurred about 20 years ago, and I
have tackled the problem at intervals since. Every
pal I have told the tale to has intimated that I am
a record liar. But the other day I caught a new-
chum English Johnnie, and after the tale had soaked
in he said: “Haw, jusso. But I weally see nothin
extwaovdinawy in that, y’ know, old chappie. Those
bally mawsupials of youahs cawwy theah young in
a pouch or something, don’t y’ know. It must have
been the bwain of the pwogeny which led y’ astway,
deah chappie. The mothah pwobably suffahed little
injury. What!” He had hit it in one.
I was out once with a new .450 sporting Martini,
and saw a fine “old man” on a ridge about 120
yards away. I dropped down and took a lean over a
big log, aimed and pulled. Nothing happened. Then
I suddenly remembered the safety-catch, which was
a new contraption to me. I lifted my eye off the
sights and tipped the safety-catch with my thumb.
I was using a very light pull, almost “hair-trigger,
and the jar of the sudden release of the safetv-catch
loosed her off as if I had pulled the trigger. Incredi-
ble as it would appear if anyone else was telling the
yarn, the ball struck the “old man” in the pelvis,
arid the subsequent etcetera interested him no more.
After that experience I cut the hair-trigger out for
good. _____
The Tasmanian House of Dodery treated
McDonald’s Referendum Bill as a lamb led,
in for slaughter: sixteen to one was the
vote. In fact, on calling for a division.
McDonald had to be his own teller. About the
only argument employed against the Bill was
that the first use the people would make of
the Referendum would be to abolish the
Upper House, and what would the Empire
do without its Dodery?


L
p
■
■i :
■
Do You Wish to Enjoy
Perfect Health?
Nature intended you to be strong, vigorous and healthy.
The various organs of your body have certain functions to
perform. It is your duty to see that these organs are not
over-taxed or run down, which will prevent them from
properly fulfilling their respective functions. For instance,
constipation, indigestion and other disorders of the system
are the direct result of your internal muscles being much
below normal —failing in their duty.
In order to enjoy perfect health it is only necessary for you
to build up your internal muscles, strengthen your lungs,
digestive organs, etc.
My Postal Course of Health 8 Strength Exercises
will make you fit, and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that drive
a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the system
—-nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling waste
tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part of your
body.
The Baker Exercises consist entirely of good exercises based
on these lines, and have been- tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copy of my Booklet, “HEALTH AND
SiRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE." It tells all about my
health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
penny stamps for postage. Just write your name and address
across ti'.is advertisement. 111 know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
565 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Reciprocate—Give
a New ...
Year’s Gift
You will doubtless
want to give a New
Year’s gift to the
friends wlio remem-
bered you at Xmas.
Why not let it be
something in the smok-
in g line ? —there’s
nothing a man appreci-
ates more.
A box of
Club Royal
“Cabinets”
would make a most
acceptable gift.
They are made from
selected Havana Leaf,
and are fine-flavored
and mild, with a de-
lightful aroma.
I can highly recom-
mend them.
In Handsome Cedar
Cabinets of 50, 20/-
Postage on 50:
N.S.W., 9d.
Inter-State, 1/2.
Sample Packet of 5,
Post Free. . 2/6
Write for My Illus-
trated Catalog.
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
‘‘CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SHELt
BENZINE
iHELL'—
•NZINE
ĥ
ħ
h
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 3'ears.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
To Assist Inventors.
Patentslnvestigation Board
Established by the Government of New South YVales.
PROSPECTUS on application to the Sec-
retary, Patents Investigation Board, 16
Carrington St., Sydney. Telephone 1989 City.
Answer the Call of the Great
Outdoors —Go Holidaying on
Sndurn
Solo or Side-Car, the Machine Ideal for Australian Roads.
Catalogue “D” with pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd .
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets,
ADELAIDE :
Eyes & Crowle Ltd..
75-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON :
John King &Sons Ltd.,
Charles Street.
PERTH :
Armstrong Cycle and
Motor Agency, Hay St.
Vv'
PATON
7989
G-.'
''
Wiite for Particulars and Quotations ,
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES
If you wish your appearance to be all it
should be, wear RIGNEY SHOES. As far
as footwear is concerned at least, it will
leave nothing to be desired.
We illustrate a choice All Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.”
The famous Paris Last. Patents or Tans.
Price - 37|6
Postage 9d. extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
tl*
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—-
4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guesjts. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place "of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
0^
CT'
DO
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
VThe Name /s\X
[the Guamfee\
\ of the L
ON THOSE
SULTRY DAYS
when every remedy for
discomfort seems but to
increase discomfort
YARDIJEY’S
EAU-DE-COLOGNE
is a revelation of delight.
The evaporating spirit
wafts a note of refreshing
flower - scented Spring
breezes to the jaded
nerves.
, Done in London
\ since 1770.
8 Mew Bond 57,
London
b-f
finp
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Noveltv
Catalog—lT’S FREE
ĥ
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 Qeorge Street, Haymarket, Sydney.


►Vo,
A “ nib ” in
every style
“ Whatever your style of
handwriting, you will find
that l can supply you with
the very nib that suits you
best. Ask /or me personally
at the shop to-day.
The Onoto fills itself with
ink easily and quickly
from any ink supply. It
is the one pen that you
can rely upon to fill itself
properly. It can’t leak.
If you buy the wrong kind
of pen to-day you will
probably wish for an
Onoto to-morrow —so be
sure to get an
Onoto
The pen to possess
14/0 and upwards of all
Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free
on appl cation to Thos. de la
Rue & Co., Ltd., 104 Bunhill
Row, London, E. C., or the Aus-
tralasian Representatives, Nor-
man Baker and Longhurst, 50
Vork Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
—Best for all pens-
A
Successful
GOITRE
Treatment
Known throughout the length and breadth of
New Zealand as the most successful Goitre
remedy, Doig’s Goitre Treatment has
over 3000 successes to its credit, including many
Australian cases. It rarely fails to reduce the
neck to its normal graceful proportions. Does
not upset the system. Perceptible results are
usually seen in the first two or three weeks-
complete success seldom fails to be attained
in a few months. Has succeeded in man v ob-
stinate cases, both in adults and children.
Full information Post Free on application to
A. DOIG (Australia) LTD.. Manufacturing Chemists
197 p Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Bankers: Bank of N.Z. 11
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Kites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
HOTEL
STEWART
SAN FRANCISCO
Geary Street, Just off Union Square
A high class hotel very favorably
known to travelers from Australia,
New Zealand and the Orient. Head-
quarters for Britishers in San Fran-
cisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. 350 rooms. 250 connecting
bathrooms. Homelike comfort rather
than unnecessarily expensive luxury.
Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping,
theatre and cafe districts. On street
car lines to all parts of city. Our om-
nibuses with uniformed attendants meet
all steamers. Cable address “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals 15 s. a day and up
Rooms without Meals 7 s. a day and up
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
PROPRIETORS
THOS. COOK & SONS, Representatives
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE!.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
Miss Gladys Cooper Explains
Some Beauty Secrets.
The Popular London Star Favors Simple Methods.
I have been asked to give a few simple recipes that I know, eithei the
use or by observation, to be valuable to the toilet, and which are wi expensive
average woman. In these days of £lOO facial treatments and elaoo ' are
beautifying processes my suggestions may read like lessons in econo y, e ‘ vno te
not especiallv so intended. They are merely practical suggestions, m w already
is “effectiveness.” All the materials or ingredients which I mention aie either a a y
at hand in the home or may be readily procured from the chemist. E ortunately lao
suffer from the. ailments or troubles enumerated below, but some people wh
fortunate have told me their experiences, and with your permission I will se
remedies which they have found to be efficacious.
Home-made Hair Tonic.
My acquaintances say that a good stimulant
to the natural growth of the hair is boranium.
A very simple, effective and safe stimulating
lotion made up by mixing one ounce of bora-
nium with \ pint- of bay rum. This may be
applied to the hajr roots occasionally with the
finger-tips with good results.
Complexion Renewals.
Complexion experts advise me that a normal,
healthy complexidn is constantly renewing it-
self by dropping off tiny flakes of worn-out
tissue, thus revealing the fresh young skin
underneath. They say that when this process
is checked by age, expo-
sure or some oi many
causes, the complexion
becomes dull and ugly.
The rational treatment
recommended is to help
the skin perform the
natural functions of
“shedding” worn-out tis-
sue. For this purpose, I
am informed, there is
nothing so good as pure
mercolized wax, used for
a few nights, just as you
would use a face cream.
It is claimed that it pos-
sesses a special affinity
for the effete scarf-skin,
which it uuickly removes
by absorbing it. The face.
I am assured, will soon
look much younger and
preuier under this treat-
ment.
The Curling Iron.
Don’t use a hot iron to
curl your hair. Some of
my friends make the cun-
ningest sort of curls
wherever they want
them simply by damp-
ing the hair with liquid
siimerine before retiring
at night. When the hair is dry in the morn-
ing it will be softly curly just where you
want it to he. This method is perfectly harm-
less, even beneficial to the hair, and the curls
last a long time. The liquid is quite pleasant
and neither sticky nor greasy.
How to Shampoo.
Most women, I am informed, do not know
how to use stallax properly when shampooing
with it. Unless the hair is naturally very
oily, a stallax shampoo may sometimes leave
it rather dry. But I am told if you will apply
olive oil freely to your 1. nr and scalp just
before shampooing with stallax, the result is
most delightful. The hair will be left clean,
soft, bright and wavy, the olive oil having
properly balanced the action of this wonderful
hair cleanser..
Is Powder Necessary?
A great many women object to using pow-
der, for various reasons. The following
formula is a good one: Dissolve an ounce of
MISS GLADYS COOPER.
Photo Wrather <Ss Buy.
eleminite in four tablespoonfuls of water, or
witch-hazel, and use it as a face lotion,
smoothing the skin with the fingers until it
is drv. This method is perfectly harmless.
I am "told that a really beautiful, natural vel-
vety bloom results and remains for many hours
quite unaffected by the most trying conditions
out of doors or in the ballroom or theatre,
and that it gives a much more natural appear-
ance to some SKins than does ordinary powder.
Grey Hair.
I have observed many attempts of many
people to conceal grey hair. Some of these
experiments were amusing, some disastrous,
and some were success-
ful. Personally I believe
I shall let my hair turn
when the appointed time
comes, but if I were
going to try to evade it,
I would give a trial to a
real old “grandmother”
formula that would prob-
ably do the work. This
formula, I am informed,
has been used with de-
grees of success for many
generations, and consists
merely of two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite
mixed with three ounces
of bay rum. It is ap-
plied to the grey hair
a few times with a small
sponge, and ladies tell
we it appears to darken
the hair to a natural
shade, not like a dye, but
gradually and naturally.
Miscellaneous Hints.
A few useful hints from
my friends on aids to
beauty, are as follows: —
Theeyebrowsand lashes
may be made to grow
stronger and darker by
applying mennaline, a
specially delicate pomade, with the finger-tips
at night.
Rouge is often obvious, and many women
therefore prefer to use powdered colliandum,
which gives a most natural tint.
The lips may be prevented from drying and
chapping by touching them with a stick
of prolactum, which also gives them a good
color.
Freckles are most effectively combated with
ammoniated mercury creams, of which jetta-
line is the best.
Note.—This interesting article on beauty
culture in general was written by Miss Gladys
Cooper at the request of the manufacturers of
Pilenta Soap—the best complexion soap in the
world. On sale by all chemists. [4
a 4
m
it *m
HE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing It. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting, and so easy, that they feel just like one’s best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well-made that they look and, after quite
a lot of wear, continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Bostock No.
P 6472
ħ
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
831
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
h
THE SIGN Of
AGOOD SHINE
ALWAYS SHINY and BRIGHT!
That’s so. Your boots will always be shiny and bright if you polish them with
ROSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSING.
It can be had in Paste or Cream, 6d. and 1/.. Sold Everywhere.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, and White.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD. SYDNEY.
The foolish ‘"farthing damages” verdict
has been thrown out on its ear by the S.
Aus. Supreme Court. A lower-court jury
gave that contemptuous award to a man
who complained of nuisance from a neighbor-
ing factor}'; but on reflection the lawyers
on both sides agreed that it was a case
for proving actual damage, and getting
actual damages, or nothing. So the Supreme
Court readily altered it to a verdict for
defendant without costs.
“Chevron”: Here are the whole facts
about Anzac, the soldier-dog (B. 14/12/T6).
He is the property of Driver Johnny Walker,
an artilleryman of the Ist (N. S. Wales)
Brigade, and he will be allowed to rejoin
his owner after spending a month in quaran-
tine at the Iloyal Park Zoo. When Anzac
embarked he was three weeks old. In the
long stay in Egypt he learned as many tricks
as a Copt money-lender. He was eight
months on Gallipoli, and was solemnly
treated for shell-shock in hospital at Mar-
seilles. Then he went into the firing-line
in Belgium and France, and, shell-shocked
once more, was admitted to the Voluntary
Aid Depot, Tunbridge Wells, Kent. In-
valided home, the pair left for Australia in
August 31, arriving on October 13. The
dog had been vaccinated, inoculated, taught
to smoke a pipe, and instructed in the ele-
ments of drill. At Harefield Hospital he
was given a rug by Queen Alexandra, and
800 of his photographs were sold for the Red
Cross. At Port Melbourne his boss was
taken off the boat on a stretcher, and was
told that Anzac could not be permitted to
land ; but other Ortherises of the brigade got
him off the vessel and placed him in safe
hands. Now Driver Walker is waiting for
the release of his pal in order to star him.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
This, incidentally, is the history of the origin of
the queer old town of Liverpool, where most of the
N. S. Wales troops have had their training. Three-
quarters of a century ago Thomas Moore died, leaving
to the Anglican Church property in the Sydney
Rocks area which on resumption was valued at
£20,000. He also gave 6395 acres of land, the
Moorebank estate, with a big frontage to George’s
River, to the Church for the augmentation of the
salaries of certain clergymen. Within the last years
the Federal Government resumed a part of the estate
for military-camp purposes, paying £40,000 for it.
The Moore gifts founded the Anglican Theological
College. The Church’s benefactor was born in 1762.
In 1796 he was ship’s carpenter of the Britannia,
which came to Sydney from England. Leaving the
ship he settled in N. S. Wales, and married. Just
prior to the ceremony he was appointed by Hunter
the Government’s Master Boat Builder, but becoming
a shipowner he gave up that job. In 1810 Mac-
quarie made him a magistrate, and stationed him at
George’s River. There late in the same year the
Governor visited him and fixed upon the site of the
town of Liverpool, which was named in honor of the
Prime Minister of the day. Moore’s name appears in
the original share-list of the Bank of N. S. Wales.
His executors included Bishop Broughton ; and there
being no family the Church got the whole estate. ■
The useful old citizen’s dust is in a vault at Liver-
pool.
“Hr.”: A war worker who has earned
some laurels is G. Hosking, of Manly, whose
gift is water-finding. When Sydney people
were putting the soldiers’ holdings at
French’s Forest into order the dryness of
the patches was an unpleasant discovery.
On his reputation, Hosking was called on
to the job, and under his directions a dozen
wells were sunk. Only one was a duffer.
The record of the old diviner (he is 73)
gives the willow-wand a big advertisement.
Black Brother is learning the refinements
of civilisation. In an Adelaide divorce-case
counsel mentioned with modest pride that the
parties and the witnesses were all half-
castes from Point Macleay Mission Station,
and that this was the station’s first divorce.
“0.A.5.,” from Somewhere : —-
It would be interesting to make some of our
“War Babies” over here produce their birtli certi-
ficates. There’s one familiar to the lads as “Dad,”
erstwhile well known at Mt. Morgan, who will
be 64 before this reaches you. He had a son aged
41 wounded in Part I. of this scrap. To-morrow
“Dad” goes on short leave to Blighty, from which
place he migrated 43 years ago. Don’t forget that
he did not enlist for any special “soft” job, and
he can do his bit along with the best of them.
“O’Phimerty”: “T.F.M.” wants to know
who discovered King Island (B. 30/11/’l6).
About 25 years ago a much-decayed human
skeleton was found on the western shore
with the rotten remains of a Spanish musket,
of the seventeenth-century type, beside it.
Probably the last poor relics of a white
sailor who reached the place long before
Baudin or Campbell were thought of. Don’t
ask me who he was or how he got there.
There is nothing in the movies that the
suburban police courts can’t eclipse. Here
is the story, unfolded at Port Melbourne, of
a young woman with the appropriate Chris-
tian name of Honor whose child was adopted
by her sister, recovered by means of a pri-
vate detective and a motor-car, and snatched
back again with the aid of another motor-
car. Its present whereabouts were not dis-
closed in court, but if early training goes
for anything it should live to be a cinema
star. According to the evidence, Hpnor was
the mother of a girl baby. This her married
sister, Katherine, adopted. “I lied to hide
my sister’s shame,”. she explained, and told
how, before the child was born, she gave out
that she herself would soon become a mother.
As soon as the child was born Katherine
took it, and endowed herself with what the
early-Victorian novels call “the sacred
attributes of motherhood” by the simple pro-
cess of publishing an advt. that Mary Mar-
garet had been born to herself and husband.
Some time afterwards the real mother got
married and thought she would like to have
Mary Margaret back, as her husband wanted
her to rear it. So she hired a private detec-
tive, who secured the child —according to its
foster-mother, by subterfuge. On the same
night, after the real mother, her husband
and the infant had retired, the foster-mother,
her husband and another man entered the
house, and after an encounter, of which par-
ticulars vary, spirited the child away in a
motor-car. As the result of all this, Honor,
the real mother, charged Katherine, the
foster-mother, with assault. But a puzzled
Bench gave it all up in despair. It was a
case that could onlv be settled adequately by
Solomon, and he isn’t on the Victorian roll.
At least, not the right Solomon.


4 CiiUNDER”
TAKES A TRIE HOME.
At the War.
r „ '-,V* " ", •
•' V -X"'
XT-
></
4-«-
wfffmm*
Mm if /'! vlp-f 7 : v?
m $ ■
\ L
\
II
I
Hi ?j ..
>r
s£Cr '/ L* f I OH'S
« S *?• V
H j
/
</ ; s
O
y
in
Rf* ,<7;
j 'if
11
U ci
If*' '. >5
sJXV
:<■&?■■■<
#?.Vt
rw <k\o c v
ms
m
xm.
m
•r
1
blue
PENCIL’
Hi's
»
v%
#
m
•M4^
£
m
mm
Is
MMm
/
SBB
X
.AW
\YZ
i£B£
m&m
* 1
*n~
Hilr
L>
:
✓V
7 /,.
mw
mm
</y
✓
■f
s,
t'" ..^’HV.4
Hi
Si
'
iiafcss
w?s>S<
S 3
n
*
Wim
*?
V'
m l l
5?
r ?r
Jv
v\-v
SKfjVr
r^'
X,
if- /
« .
piU
w
..if'S
■'X
i'/Sfjj
4 J \\
ssi
/!§§§«»«
aHMasttWHl
fcSS*2
r»
yfg :
IS©'--
w ..
\
n>
~.- J 1 p L / /
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chuncler Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Knows just what to
Scratch out, too.
Poor old Bear can’t
See why he
Should be censored
Horribly.
“ Look here, Chunder
He begins.
Chunder merely
Sits and grins.
Though it makes his
Comrade sob,
He must do his
‘‘COBRA’ job.


\:/
BEAUTY
ATTRACTS
ADMIRATION
A clear, spotless skin, bright eyes, and rosy
cheeks are the main points of an attractive
face. If your liver is out of order you
will not have these good points in your
complexion.
FI SHERS
BEAUTY PILLS
FOR THE LIVER
Make new blood and clear the complexion
of spots and blotches. One pill occasionally
means a healthy liver, a healthy liver
means a big asset to both men and women.
Always risk for Fisher’s Liver Pills.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES
per bottle
337' GEORGE STREET,'SYDNEY, N.B.W.
■dEEWnTial
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mpars Far Phono niany timea as efficie, 't
M celt a Dal I llUlie and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustir instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREEI,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
ĥ
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Riding Emperors.
AJXoi/en
Our Celebrated “IRON BARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, litted with the “A & S” special
ankle 'protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbarlt Brand” on loops.
Price
14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allan#Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
If//
MS'.
mm
sss\:
\\s\v M
i\W\V.
'//»
i \«
The Sun Never Sets On
Certain-teed Roofing
C*ERTAIN- TEED roofs the
world. But it is only one of
the products made by the world’s
largest manufacturers of roofing materials. Th e U j
line includes: Roofing—roll and, flat, Building and
Insulating Papers, Paints and Wall Boards, etc.
You must surelv investigate these remarkable products. Our local repre-
Native wS be S to show them and give you free samples and
literature. Write or call.
Mr. C. C. McCann. Perpetual Trustee Bid*., Sydney. N. S. W.. Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Company
MILLS IN US A • East St. Louis, Illinois; Marseilles, Illinois; York, Pennsylvania, San rancisco, norma
MILLS IN U . & L O N DON OFFICE; Imperial House. Kingsway, London, W.
Distributors; Jolm Dank* Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne; Jas. Campbell & Sons
Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co., Adelaide.
ħ
THE “SMITH”
AUTO
WHEEL
Turns your push-bike
into a motor-cycle. In-
stantly detachable.
You'll always want to be out in the open with the
“Smith” Auto Wheel on your bike. Bring your bike
to us. The “Smith” is easily adjusted.
Full particulars from us, the Sole Agents: -•
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
h
ĥ
METAL POLISH
Cleans more brass signs, zinc signs,
brass railings, door knobs and door
plates than all other polishes com-
bined, because, it is the quickest and
safest to use. Sold by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo on Can Cf
ħ
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewinfi Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne ; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
I ft <?
>
h
AFTER
FOB ”
QUICK RESULTS'
USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
A splendid growth of hair can be
produced on the upper lip by the
aid of CAPILLARINE. Make up
your mind to grow the mous-
tache during 1917, and start
using this wonderful moustache-
nrodt’cer straight away.
PRICE 10/6 JAR, POST FREE.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
654 Ceorsre St.
SYDNEY.
3
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AIIAUIS
Egyptian Henna before all others : it is the best and
cheapest I have ever ustJ.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale ox
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive, you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price II- and S/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
Music Through
Diamond
Mr. Edison’s
Secret
The wonderful Diamond Stylus Reproducer is the secret by which Mr. Edison
has made of the phonograph a real musical instrument.
It brings out all those overtones and fine shades of sound that give volume,
purity and richness to the tone ; it creates at last what all music-lovers
sought —a tone that can really be called true-to-life, human and natural.
The NEW EDISON
has no needles to change
When needles have to be changed it stands to reason that the latter part of
any record can never be played as well as the first —for the needle must be
half worn out when the record is only half played. Not so with J-he
NEW EDISON. Every re-creation is played through clearly and perfectly
—exactly as originally rendered.
-Commenting on one of the many, comparisons of the kind recently made, the
Cleveland Leader reports: “Christine Miller herself and Christine Millei
on The NEW EDISON sang side by side. The two voices were so identical
that when one or the other was stopped it was impossible to detect it in the
audience.... which was composed of the most cultured musicians.
Hundreds of similar reports have appeared in large, influential newspapers.
Write to-day for more details of this grand instrument and learn why it
should be iii your home.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently , stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Annex: Dunno what “Blighty” (Billjim
equivalent for England) means exactly ; but it’s sup-
posed to be a Hindustani word, introduced to the
Anzacs away back in the days when Bill and the
little Ghurkas first became acquainted.... L.D.: Aus-
tralia’s fifth million was expected in 1915, but owing
to the despatch of troops Statistician Knibbs had to
postpone the’ date C.L.G.: Can’t say, pars, go in
or go out on their merits. .. .Bellerive: Ah. always
seasonable: —-
....Damaged Goods: Cleverly handled; if the idea
had been a size larger it would have pushed through.
... .H.R.McD.: Polish “The Retainer”; it’s worth
while W.G.M.: Thanks. But it’s on the pro-
hibited list Broad Arrow: Out of our line. Write
A. C. Rowlandson, 470 George-street, Sydney. And
we wish you luck. .. . Yamba: But Hughes says (and
it’s no doubt true) that the soldiers’ vote was, by
1 a majority, Yes. .. . Wm. J.: \ erse has no force in
it. . . .E.A.S.F.: One held for inquest .. . .P. 1.0.:
Good phrasing, bumpy verse. .. .A.C.W.: The sonnet
says an old thing in an old way. .. . E.J.8.: N 0....
E.L.S.: We know the “smell of the wattle,” but what
the deuce is the “song of the throttle” that rhymes
with it? (P.S. Should it be the “bite of the
bottle” ?)... .C.C.D.: One might do, but the hoof-
beat verse wants improving. .. .E.S.: You should be
able to sell “Casual Cove” yarn somewhere else.
Not badly done, but not our style. .. .M.D.: “Color
Line” hardly makes a yarn. . . .D.S.: Doesn't quite
grip J.L.11.: Not point enough M.K.: “Keep-
sake” not up It.A.W.: It has the “tie” rhyme
badly... .F.8.Q.: Coal-mine yarn better for a daily
paper.... Pessimus: It slithered along in a common-
place fashion until it came to the last stanza, when
it struck trouble and began to buck wildly.... John
11.: You tell a yarn brightly, if only you would find
something to tell. .. . J.M.J.: “Fight On” doesn t
move us A.8.C.: Held for inquest and possible
resurrection.... Zendys: Prose and verse both too
thin. .. .S.D.: There’s some thrill in stuff like that:
. ...J.J.M.: Utter commonplace in verse, which is
clumsy and bumps. .. .X.Y.Z.: Can’t get any sense
out of it. . . .C.W.: “Prose epoch or poem” has no
j0y.... Melos: “Matter of Clothes” doesn’t score....
J.H.M. “Gamboge” not for u5....8.W.: Wild bit
of melodrama... .R.E.F.11.: Brightly told, but yarn
too slender L.T.: It doesn’t get the feeling, and
the manner is poor. . . .E.D.: Not enough in them
J.P.D.: No to both. ... Bijah: It’s stiff and rather
clumsy E.M.: Charmingly done, but you want, to
And the right market. It isn’t here J.R.: It
doesn’t amount to a story as it stands. . . .F.K.: Verse
won’t do. Conscription issue seems to have been
viewed in lots of different ways by the men in
khaki... .E.S.: Don’t like “Bunny.”.... Australia:
You seem to lack the verse sense. .. .J.E.N. : Not
good enough.... E. W.: Not bad for a first try, but
“was” •is singular and “were” plural. You can’t
go-far till you learn that. .. . G.D.M.: “Dead Cert”
doesn’t score.... U.Z.: Don’t get hysterical about it.
. ...S’.A.K.: “’Eat” is a possible. ... A. 11. P.: Vile
handwriting; dull inanity. .. .Watchman: An old idea
in very middling verse.... 11. M.: “Dream Children”
won’t quite do, but it holds a lot of promise. Keep
on. . . .C.F.N.: Too crude. .. .R.R.R.: “Rymbel ’ is
ingenious and some lines in the “Cloud” are good.
But they are uneven.... Soros: “Discontent” seems
a weak curse about nothing S.J.H.: Dreary verse
of the old sort. ...S.L.: The main thrill deserves a
place:—
“I’m too young to die,” he mournfully sighs ;
. Then he bogs into the fray, a glint in his eyes,
That makes Billzae stab quicker and best,
For neither is,,he ready for his last long rest.
Fritz puffs and blows, his fat face is red f
No doubt he'll change color, when the poor beggar’s
dead.
“M.y oath!” cries Bill, and with a terrible push
He punctures Fritz, with a peculiar sqush !
All flattened and pale he falls to the ground,
The wind rushes out with a horrible sound.
Bill says farewell and pursues his way,
And that’s how Billzae earns his pay.
... . J.T.11.: Savage verse rejected. ...R. Gill: “Play-
making,” by Wm. Archer (35.) and “Theory of the
Theatre,” by Clayton Hamilton (75.), any booksellers.
Vermis Mon: Complain to the editor of the maga-
zine; he’ll print it —perhaps. ... D.M.R.: No.
The Speck isn’t always at the tail of
the procession. It was the only State which
supplied its quota of recruits for September.
October and November. Its proportion
was 1 110. and it supplied 1851. Westralia
was next best with 2600 against a quota of
2601; Victoria was at the bottom with 5581
out of 10.912.
Norman Bayles, M.L.A. for the drawing-
rooms of Toorak. now spends laborious
nights building up similes and metaphors.
One of Peacock’s little financial efforts was
latelv described as “a kinetoscope Budget,
with’ masses of figures drawn on a black
background of debt.” The Licensing Bill
was “a barrage to avoid attack,” and there
was “trench work behind the barrage.” In
another case “the little busy bee had been
improving the shining votes.” As for the
ship of State, for two years it had been
“running astern to the extent of nearly
£1 500,000” ; and Aleck Peacock, “like Nero,
was a cheerv optimist and fiddled while the
finances drifted.” It won’t be Norman
Bayles’s fault if the rat which he smells
floating in the air isn’t submarined by the
• poisoned bait of the new Economy Party to
which Conservatism has lately lent its most
sensible ear.
New Year’s approaching—
Let us toast and sing
In loyalty, dear comrades,
To tile empire and king.
Chink glasses and drink
To Australia’s brave sons,
Whom with England and the allies
Are fighting the hull's.
New Year’s approaching—•
Let us toast and sing,
Success to the empire—
And God save our king.
The Recruiting Sergeant dreamt a dream
(I may say he’d over-eaten),
But it showed him very plainly
That Australians can’t be beaten.
He dreamt that in the place of men
To strike a blow for country’s cause,
The animals from far-out bush
Came trooping in orderly fours.
Kangaroos, wallabies, dingoes
And opossums and native bears,
Birds, kangaroo-rats and wombats,
Long-legged emus, walking in pairs.


A Happy New Year
is assured to all Painters using Meggitt’s
iLiMj.** Jit *,.,,.*»***'.
ĥ
r:^
A
>
I
PAINTERS, Help to make Australia prosperous by using Meggitt’s Linseed Oil,
made by good Australian Workmen at Parramatta,
For lull particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne;
Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers, Parramatta, n.s.w.


Shipping:.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
.Geared Turbine
, .Triple-Screw.
..Twin-Screw .
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12.130
12.129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin«s-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sidney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
MOUTH.
BURWAII (cargo only).
Leaves Sydney, Dee. 30.
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 3.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 6.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 10.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 13.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
only.
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 6.
Full Particulars ve Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon, Sir ROBERT PIITLP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
GENEnAi. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Jfustralian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND .. . . .. £85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedlqStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J, Sly, Esq., LL.D. ;. Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F, Jago Smith, M.L.C.'
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.,; James Love, Esq. ;
• Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
IIEAI) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, Limited,
Established 1834.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Coiien, Esq. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
General Manager: H. IT. Massie.
Head Office: 343 George St., SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, E.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queens-
land. Agencies throughout the W T orld.
Bank of |)bw Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,98S
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
grants drafts
on Australia, New Zea
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest, tor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
the .“ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t I win Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms. Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD HOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around ttye World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.). .
MAITAI, 4th January, 1917. MO ANA, Ist February, 1917.
steamers leave Sydney—2Bth December, 25th January, 1917.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer Immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in tlie Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and R.AI.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
h m
m m
'V ; V _V-»s£.■
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ħ
£3,705,320
£2,725.000
£3,705,320
i
£10.135.640
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.C
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Eso..
Richard Binnie, Esq.
M.L.C,
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
338 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
' Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign plages DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
h
JM ot 3nstralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open '
for a.!!
General Banking; Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
'Bndßj puis «!isj;sny u;
saoLjy.o )B<>d »b ssiouaSv OU9o
jo ao puE ‘soMOUEjg ire rv
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMLvS KELL, Deputy Gorernor.
June, 1916
DENISON MILLER. Gorernor
ADOPT THIS PLAN for 1917
and deposit systematically part of your
WEEKLY OR
MONTHLY INCOME.
After providing for
FOOD
CLOTHING
RENT
INSURANCE
TAXES
AMUSEMENT
INCIDENTALS
THE AMOUNT OVER ACTUAL EXPENSES
Deposited in this Bank will accrue with 3f% interest and be available
when you want it.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution—HEAD OFFICE, II MOORE STREET, SIDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
l'OJl MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE'
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Jan. 12 and Feb. 9.
BRISBANE I :
MACKAY - I
TOWNSVILLE |
And Ports North to Cairns. J ]
PA RING A. Dec. 30.
MORIALTA, Jan. 6.
RUPARA, Jan. 13.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which _pan be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YCILI, & CO., I/ri).,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY'.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
" Ulimaroa, ,r “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with YY'ireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services betweeii
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
IIOBAUT AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET; MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C A N A D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
DEC. 28, JAN. 17, FEB. 7, FEB. 28.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street) SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle: ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — »
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUeCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
sfatner. £ G Ss. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Bsdness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.


12911
in
■
-
iipiiip
■
■
li
m
l: r: :
-
HP
I>T ,
/
Supreme in Qualify
And Therefore in Economy
MICHELIN TYRES
Sfand Supreme.
MICHELIN has made great efforts to keep up
supplies since the outbreak of War.
Supplies are regular.
MICHELIN TYRES
(The famous tyres manufactured by the famous
French firm).
Quality means Mileage.
Mileage means Economy.
MICHELIN—THE BEST,
Therefore the most Economical,
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained
at all the leading garages.
10. A. 1617
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines,
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DU PONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A USTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
The Lake Breeze Motor
h
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street) SYDNEY.
LOOK
FOR
THIS:
ĥ
10-INCH,
213
12-INCH, 3/0.
c
o
©
o
c
V
CHPE!
**G>
Your collection cannot be complete unless
it contains a number of Zonophone
Records.
It's the mark of quality—the sign of BIG
VALUE!
Zonophone Records are the cheapest
GOOD Records made.
«
They outwear any others.
They have TWO selections —one on each
side.
They are kept right up to date —new lists
feature THE LATEST HITS regularly
every month.
THEY ARE ENTIRELY BRITISH.
They are sold in every town.
Complete lists from your dealer or from
The British Zonophone Co.
165 Pitt Street SYDNEY.
.
I? any illustration appearing in 'jIIIE
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager,' who will quote you price for it.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
'lhe prices advertised are those at 'which the
books : are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importina
bookseller.
POLITICAL FRONTIERS AND
BOUNDARY MAKING. By Col.
Sir . THOMAS H. HOLDICH,
K.C.M.G., K.C.1.E., C. 8., D.Sc.
10s. net.
THE EMPIRE AND THE FUTURE.
A Series of Imperial Studies Lectures
delivered in the University of Lon-
don, King’s College. 2s. not.
PROF. J. LAURENCE RENTOUL.”
AT VANCOUVER’S WELL, AND
OTHER POEMS OF SOUTH AND
NORTH. By J. LAURENCE REN-
TOI L. Author of “From Far Lands:
Poems of North and South.”
[lmmediately
SIR P.ABINI )RANATII TAGORE.
FRUIT-GATHERING. Poems by Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. ' (A
Sequel to Uitanjuli.) 4s. (Id. net.
HUNGRY STONES, AND OTHER
STORIES. By Sir RABINDRA-
NATH TAGORE. Translated from
the original Bengali by various
writers. ss. net.
GOLDEN TREASURY SEIIIES.^ -
NEW VOL.
SELECTED POEMS OF THOMAS
HARDY r . 2s. 6d. net.
W. B. YEATS?
RESPONSIBILITIES, AND OTHER
POEMS. By WILLIAM BUTLER
YEATS. 6s. net.
REVERIES OVER CHILDHOOD
AND YOUTH. By WILLIAM
BUTLER YEATS. With Illustra-
tions. 6s. net.
The other works of Mr. Yeats arc now pub-
lished by Messrs. Macmillan and Co.
REALMS OF MELODY. An
Anthology. Edited by GEOFFREY
CALLENDER. M.A. Bs. 6d. net.
The Woujjß : “This is an anthology of the
most representative and beautiful English
verse, divided under 14 headings or ‘realms,’
among which are ‘England,’ ‘Heroes and
Heroines,’ ‘The Sea,’ ‘Ships and Sailors,’
‘Battle,’ etc.
THE RUSSIAN STORY BOOK. Con
taining Tales from the Song-Cycles of
Kiev and Novgorod and Other Early
Sources. Retold by RICHARD
WILSON, D.Litt. With Sixteen
Colored Plates and also. Line Illustra-
tions from Drawings by Frank C.
Pape. 7s. 6d. net.
PILOT AND OTHER STORIES. By
HARRY PLUNKET GREENE.
'With illustrations in Color and Black
and White by 11. J. Ford. 6s. net.
“Pilot” is a cunning and attractive dog
whose adventures and devices as a poacher are
told with verve and humor. In the “other
ftories” the author’s Irish temperament finds
full play.
THE THREE PEARLS. Bv the Hon.
J. W. FORTESCUE, Author of “The
Story of a Red Deer,” “The Drum-
mer’s Chat,” etc. With Illustrations
by Alice B. Woodward. 6s. net.
EDMEE. A Tale of the French
Revolution. By Mrs. MOLES-
Demain Hammond. Crown Bvo.
Bs. 6d.
I SOMETIMES THINK. Essays for
the Young People. By STEPHEN
PAGET, Author of “I Wonder,”
“Essays for Boys and Girls,” etc. ss.
net.
THE PROBLEM OF PERSON-
ALITY. A Critical and Constructive
Study in the Light of Recent Thought.
By ERNEST NORTHCROFT MER-
RINGTON, M.A, (Sydney), Ph.D.,
Lecturer in Philosophy, University of
Sydney, 1907-9. ss.
NATURE AND ADVENTURE IN
.AUSTRALASIA. For Boys and
Girls. By JANE ADA FLETCHER,
Author of “Stories * from Nature.”
Illustrated. Is. 6d.
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
3s. 6d. per volume.
MAURICE lIEWLETT’S
NEW FULL-LENGTH NOVELS.
654. LOVE AND LUCY.
Daily Chronicle: “As a study in the femi-
,nin6 Mr. Hewlett’s story deserves warm praise.”
ALGERNON BI,ACKWOOD.
655. THE WAVE: An Egyptian
Aftermath.
The Daily Graphic: “Mr. Blackwood writes
with unfailing grace and ease, and has once
more made us his debtor for a novel which,
while of absorbing interest, is even more re-
markable for its inspiring quality.”
MRS. HUMPHRY WARD.
656. LADY CONNIE.
. The Daily Telegraph: “The mise-en-scene
is admirably done.... Her descriptions are
always graphic and picturesque, and she writes
with distinction. Lady Connie is\ a very dis-
tinctive piece of portraiture.”
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN § CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Mv,
FOUR BIG MAIL-ORDER SPECIALS from
FINNEY’S.
Sent right into
your home
CARRIAGE FREE.
This Blouse 8/11.
No. BUI. —Smart Handker-
chief Linene Blouses, front and
cuffs handsomely embroidered
and finished with hemstitching.
Exactly as pictured. Special
price 8/11.
This Skirt 6/11.
No. BU2. —Useful Skirt, in
White Pique, perfectly cut, and
good-fitting hips, trimmed
pointed pieces of same, all sizes.
Special price 6/11.
h
Your Order will be
Expertly and Intelli-
gently Executed.
This Blouse 4/11.
No. BU3. —Cool White Cot-
ton Voile Blouse, fashioned with
low Roll Collar and finished
with inlet narrow beading and
tucks. Special price 4/11.
This Skirt 9/11.
No. BU4. —Up-to-date White
Linene Skirt, well flared and
beautifully fitting, trimmed
pockets and flap, all sizes.
Special price 9/11.
m
r
The Big Block,
Brisbane.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. LTD.,
The Drapers
of Queensland.
IN BANANA LAND
The Ryan Government is creating a
“Commissioner of Trade.” Primarily, he
is to control the miscellaneous State enter-
prises which the Ryan administration has
established. But he is also to have almost
unlimited powers (nominally) with regard
to the fixation of prices, the regulation of
markets, the prevention of market rigging,
acquisition of land and the commandeering
of goods. His other functions include find-
ing markets overseas for the sale of Queens-
land products, arranging for their sale and
distribution without the services of agents
and the oversight of “trade, industries and
commerce.” He will draw about £l5OO a
year and will be responsible (nominally
again) only to Parliament. When he wants
to find out anything, the powers under the
Official Inquiries Act will be vested in him.
As soon as he is appointed he will he ex-
pected to take over the general-managership
of the State stations, butchers’ shops, coal
mines, sawmills and the fish industry. And
then a labor union with a punch and a pull
will tell him to go to Ilelenvale or further,
and what looks like a Cz-ir on paper will
either get out of the way or be found super-
fluous.
Dr. Lightoller, of Brisbane, on the spread
of syphilitic plague :
I have seen a primary sore on the lip of a girl 18
years old, contracted by putting a cigar between the
lips, the cigar having been previously smoked by an
infected person. I have seen mother, father and
children all infected from the one source. 1 saw a
boy aged seven infected with syphilis caught by
wearing trousers cut down to suit him, the oiiginal
owner having been infected.
And yet certain wowsers would persuade us
that "the contracting of this disease is all
the result of “sin.”
“Milo”: Our deepest bore is on Clarke
and Tait’s Bimerah station, near Stone-
henge, on the Thompson. This perforation
climbs down to 5025 ft. Bill Campbell, for
the Diamond Drill Borilig Co., the other-
day tapped for Terrick Terrick station,
near Blackall, a small flow at a depth of
5008 ft., this being the second-deepest bore
in the State. Bob Thorburn struck water
on Langlo Downs (Cobbold and O’Brien’s
station) at a depth of 4600 ft., but lie failed
to get a flow. Six years were spent sinking
this bore. Water was a while ago struck on
Harte’s Springfield station at about 4300 ft.,
but the supply was not satisfactory. Barney
Barnes, driller for the Barcoo Boring Co., is
busy just, now inviting this hole to_ have a
greater depth. The deepest bore in Aus-
tralia is, I believe, qn the road from Birds-
ville (Q.) to Hergotr Springs (S.A.). It
is said to be; about 6000 ft. towards
Gehenna ; but it’s a dry track, without a pub
y.t the terminus.
Passed out in his 61st year, Arthur
Morgan, President of the Queensland Legis-
lative Council and Lieut.-Governor of
the State. Morgan was Warwick born,
bred and educated, his schoolmaster (so
far as he had one) being doughty old J. S.
Kerr, who so long and vigorously ran the
Brisbane Normal School. His conversation
impressed you at once with the idea that he
was a man of considerable culture, although
schooling closed for him at his 11th year,
when he drifted into dad's newspaper office.
When James Morgan died Arthur took on
the Akgus and made it a power on the
Darling Downs. As Speaker of the Banana-
land Assembly he was conspicuous for his
dignified bearing and his intimate knowledge
of precedent and procedure ; and he had the
honor of being Premier of the only Queens-
land Government that was honest enough to
live without borrowing. A scrupulous care
in public finance was always plank No. 1
of his platform, and on more than one occa-
sion he stepped from his Presidential chair
to warn Parliament against the boom ten-
dencies of Kidston’s later career. Two of
his boys are at the Front and three hold
highly ’ responsible positions in big financial
institutions.
THE SEANCE.
ONE WOMAN : “It ought to he ready to tell us things now.”
ANTHER WOMAN: “Yes.”
THE THIRD WOMAN: “ Spirit of the Table, are you there? Knock once if you are there,
twice if you are not.”
“Zin'’ on the Queensland Police Commis-
sionership:—•,
Cahill’s strong stand over the Brisbane tram strike
in 1912 has been neither' forgotten nor forgiven by
the Trades Hall, and a continuous policy of interrup-
tion has been engineered since the Ryan Government
took over. The formation of the Police Union lately
was reckoned to be the card to turn the trick,
but the Majali stuck to his guns, until, after a
series of free conferences, he rttires this month-end
with fairly-decer.t terms. The job of appointing his
successor has been practically undertaken by the
Police Union, which hopes for better luck this time
than it had in March last, when the new man had
actually left his order with his tailor. All parties
seem agreed that the next man should be a policeman,
and the choice narrows to two men: O’Sullivan, aged
52, an Australian native* and O’Connor, aged 54, from
that nursery of policemen, the Ould Sod. O’Connor
joined in 1886, won his first braid in 1909, and
since 1912 has put up a record for advancement.
Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs. F. G. Fanning,
of Casino, over the border, are mourning
the death of their only son, Lieut. Fred
Fanning, of the Queensland Light Horse.
The young soldier was just 26, and second
cousin to General Birdwood, to whose staff
he was for some tiipe attached. Unselfish-
ness was really the cause of his death ; in-
stead of going into hospital in England and
giving himself a chance, he stay’ed on with
his lot in France.
Home Secretary Huxham has on the
stocks a Police Offences Bill which is to
amend the present Act. Its good points
include compulsory notification of venereal
diseases, free and compulsory treatment at
public hospitals,, the suppression of quack
practitioners by making it an offence tor any-
one not a qualified medical man to treat
venereal disease, the prevention of marriage
of diseased persons so far as is possible by
notifying the healthy' party_ of the state of
the other, and by making it an offence to
communicate the disease. “Soliciting is
forbidden, while it is an offence for a male
to live on the earnings of a prostitute or
to live in the same house as 1 lossie.
Other clauses seek to prevent the sale of, or
advertising for sale, preventives and medi-
cines to cure “female complaints.’ In Queens-
land at present preventives are sold openly
and advertised in papers which shudder at
the mention of syphilis. Most of the provi-
sions, for which no doubt Dr. Moore, (com-
missioner of Health, is responsible, aie ex-
cellent. But there are a few that are ques-
tionable. For instance, in Brisbane there
are a number of well-known brothels, whose
inmates have to report fortnightly for
examination; and soliciting on the streets
is at an absolute minimum. The proposed
bill, if introduced, will have the effect of
abolishing these haunts, whereupon' each
woman will set up for herself where she
will not be reached by the Health Depart-
ment ; and, in the absence of a definition of
“prostitute,” there will be tremendous diffi-
culty in proving her one.
There is always something better just
ahead. Mt. Molloy, the Northern copper
show which did very well for a .start, got
into the usual difficulties, but was going to
have a glorious time when it achieved a
railway. John Moffat and his friends at
last arranged the finances and the line was
built. Then it turned out that all the talk
about prosperity depending on a railway
was hot air, and practically the line was
never used. Now the Government has been
induced to buy the line (which cost about
£50,000) for £17,500, not that it is worth
anything as it stands, but because a few
miles further on it would come into country
which would bring the same old rush of
traffic.
What a simple matter elections were in
the early days of Queensland! A Courier
reprint of 50 years ago runs thus :
The nomination of candidates for the electorate
of Clermont took place on November 19. The candi-
dates were Messrs. John Douglas and G. E. Foibes.
The show of hands was in favor of the latter, he
having four and Mr. Douglas only two. As no poll
was demanded Mr. Forbes was declared duly elected.
The Toy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Said the man:
“A part of me is nothing but a boy;
Give me a toy!”
Life took him to the hilltop above the busy world,
Where from a hundred cities a million smoke-wreaths
curled.
Life said: “A crown of laurel? A knapsack filled
with gold ?
Wise books to teach you virtue when you are grow-
ing old ?
A jewel hoard ? A chariot ? An army or a fleet.
Homage of men ? Come, tell me, which you would
find most meet!”
But still the man went frowning, each triumph
seemed to cloy ;
And still he prayed and fretted for some new kind of
toy !
‘‘Houses and laurels, they can’t feel; books you can
throw aside ;
The men who give lip service behind my back deride ;
Of chariots I grow weary; and gold it does not care
If I should keep or squander—’tis welcome any-
where!
An army cries for battle, and fleets for seas afar
I want some toy all to myself, a thing to make or
mar.” '
Said Life:
“I have found a pretty thing
That you can fill with joy,
Or choke with shameful bitter tears,
Make quiver with a hundred fears,
And thrust your fingers in and out,
And curse or fondle, turn about.
And when you tire of this toy
Another I will bring.”
Life drew his knapsack strings apart
And gave the man a woman’s heart.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
~ Brisbane, December 23, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The evacuation of Brisbane fo ,j ie
* Yesterday, Geo. V.’s substitute distributed
at the Exhibition Hall f “
f d . h f y m J,st ne teH °y“ rto° D the tfddies of
soldiers Two of the juveniles toddled up
to her Ex. with a brace of bow-wows or
gnlly-wogs or something for “Master Die.
Marriage by proxy lias arpused the indig-
nation of the local husband-huntei. Cime
rightly she sees that motor rides, confetti
and rice, the honeyspoomng and all the
other incidentals will be missing under the
new idea and that’s no good to missy, in
S, apart from that section of it, marriage
is a mere matter of detail. . , .
Parliament has been really busy finishing
up for more holidays, and has
late and early hours in the desperate
attempt to be done with the inconvenience
of leaving the billiard-room whenthe;!! vi-
sion bell rings. The House of Dodder re
centlv upset the programme slightly, but
still ' whatever happens, nothing will be
allowed to get in the way of the prehistoiic
plumduff and the bloated goose.
The late Jas. Potter, who crossed the line
in London on December 12, was a hrothei o
Rev. Mother Mary Patrick, Sistei-supeiior
of All Hallows’ Convent, a dear old lady
who has kept watch and ward ovei the
cloisters for many years.
The Holy Children are on the rampage
again, this time against the Government for
permitting art unions and other gambles to
be carried on in aid of patriotic funds. Ti e
Government, has said nothing Publicly, but
privately it remarks Rabbits. Did you
ever hear a rabbit howl ?
The 8.0. P. meshed a profit of £l7l on
“La Mascotte” for the ’Patriationilund The
box-office takings totted to flf? 6, and the
total exes, came to £855. This is not a
record for local amateur theatricals, but it
is good business.
Eva Webber, who made such a saucy,
audacious drummer boy m iambour
Major” with the 8.0. P. amateurs, has joined
Branscombe. Applause, encores and bouquets
marked her somewhat shy debut with the
Dandies. .
Heavy casualty lists, Thargommdah. lie
Unborn” has been screened, and Twilight
Sleep” is due.
The Allies’ City is still going merrily at
the Gardens, and it will continue to cast its
net for more coin till over the New Year, so
that the Gumleaves family, who are ex-
pected to come to the city in the usual large
numbers, may help along the good cause.
Incidentally, Mother Grundy and Dame
Rumor are in consultation over White City.
It is said that a delightfully wicked showing
up is going to be made of somebody or some-
thing, and Society is awaiting exposuies
with the hope that springs eternal in
its breast.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Rangan” : There’s been some fun on the
beat here. The John Hops’ Union held a
special meeting, and as a report had got
about that there was going to be a row, a
strong body of police was detailed to keep
the other police in order. -Trouble started
early with a motion to exclude the press.
The bodyguard insisted on voting, though
the puzzled chairman ruled- them out of
order. They argued and finally carried their
point. So' the press (including Me) re-
mained. Then somebody spotted an inspec-
tor present, and the chairman, with “the
utmost respect,” asked him to get out. But
he was a financial member, and refused.
(Uproar.) The bodyguard soon restored
order, and the inspector remained. Then
the meeting got down to real business. One
member called the chairman names, and
charged him with squandering the hard-
earned subscriptions of the unionists. The
chairman left the platform to argue it out
at close range, and the meeting and the
bodyguard took sides. The fight was long
and' bitter. The inspector rang up the
Roma-street depot for reinforcements, and
was testilv told that they were all at the
meeting. Towards midnight the fury eased
off, and the casualties were sorted out. A
new chairman took the platform, and moved
that progress be reported and the business
continue next evening. The opposition, who
were on duty next night, swore to finish the
matter there and then, and were doiiw their
best as I torpedoed through the door. At
that stage the meeting was attempting to
arrest the boayguard, and the bodyguard
was trying to handcuff the meeting.


Model
84 R
K
'A
i
<oo^
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
ft
*
Europe’s Favourite Motor Car Engine
At a Price Within Your Reach
European manufacturers have spared no expense to determine what type
of engine will give the quietest, smoothest, longest and most constant service.
The leading European makers have selected the Knight type engine.
The Daimler, the Panhard, the Hinerva all have the Knight type engine
and all are very expensive.
The Willys=Overland Company are able, because of their immense pro=
duction, to put the Willys=Knight motor-car on the market at a price far
below any other Knight motored car .
Yet the engine is the same Knight design used in all the leading European
cars. It is just as sturdy, just as quiet, just as smooth=running, just as efficient.
And the price is easily within your reach .
Ride in one of these remarkable motor=cars. Call us to m day. We will
gladly arrange a demonstration and tell you of the many advantages of the
Knight engine—and the Willys-Knight motor=car.
Complete Catalogues on Reguest from—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEATH OR N & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
Cable Address —Overlandis, Toledo (A. B. C. sth: General, Western Union and Lieber Code.)


ĥ
A Boot for
General Wear.
Not expensive, but possesses quality
features now rare in a boot at its
price. Roomy, comfortable, semi-
freak toe. Derby lace style in Black
Box Calf .' :... 217-
In Tan Calf , 19/9
We] pay postage.
For Disiinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
Little Friends
" of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind : they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
ħ
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dose,
Small Price.
Carter’s!
h
lITTLE
WER
PILLS,
m
For Skin and
Complexion
To improve your skin
and complexion, use Icilma
Cream, the famous British
toilet cream. The Icilma
Natural I Water which it
contains will stimulate the
skin and regulate the flow
ot natural oils. In this
way it prevents early
wrinkles - and keeps the
skin in good condition.
Fragrant and non-greasy.
frpnm
(Guaranteed not to grow Hair).
Price T 76 rer pot.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
I ilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Agent?,
11, Commerce House, Melbourne.
LJ, A U JSTHALi AN fcs vismng Ltom.uu
should read the Bkitish Austral-
asian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ai.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Biutisu Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge,
ĥ
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
ħ
44
99
Underwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods.
New ‘•Olympic’* Brandi
Owifig to the high prices of the yarns freni which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily loWer lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers :
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 66 <!>
uncenua
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
'J'HE BLOOD is the encrgiser of the system. Upoi its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia—“girls, women and mefl
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
if you have any of these symptoms, or are run-dowh and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Aiise'mia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general ‘‘fitness” and well-being.
Dr. Andrew A'ilson wrote :—“ Imt/roverished blood can be made rich and good
by means 0/ Iron 'Jedo ds,' the most effective and desirable treatment ”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IKON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON -JELLOIDS’No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6 Large size 3r
Manufactured onl/ by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205. City Road. London, England.
f
§
V
(Pronounced Jell‘Uoyds)
h
ĥ
Horlick’s is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised.®
Horlick’s will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and wili assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle.
HORLIC K’S
MALTED MIL KH
* mm &
S*«w
Sample will be sent on receipt
of 2d. in stamps.—Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
i
, 'Try it at
the Soda fountain*
ACCEPTABLE GIFTS
At STEWART DAWSON'S
V 1
/
'S'
s
Stewart Dawson’s strong Oxidised
S'teel Case Lever, with crystal glass
front. It has a }-plate nickel move-
ment, with compensation balance.
Special Value, 15/6.
Selected from oar 1/atest Catalogue, and
representing a rare combination of
Quality, Economy and Variety.
9ct. Gold Battalion Color Wish-
bone Brooch, any Battalion color,
8/6.
Solid 9ct. Gold
Ring - , inset any
Battalion Colors.
Lady’s Ring, g l/ -
Gent’s Ring - , \ f/-
9ct. Gold Battalion Color Brooch,
Boomerang- design, inset any colors'
Price, 8/6.
Har.dscmo 2-slane
Diamond Ring,
Platinum and 18ct.
Geld, £6/10/-
Larger Stones,
£7/10/- and
£B/10/-
STEWART DAWSON’S,
The
Treasure
House,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street. SYDNEY.
“Boro-Belle”: If it is true that chemists
have discovered re-agents to eliminate red-
dishness from mangrove tannins (B.
7/12/’l6), then North Queensland will
share with Papua a harvest, for the supply
is almost unlimited, For a quarter of a
century the Maekay fishermen have used
the tan to darken their nets, and at one
time a small yard established on the edge
of a mangrove swamp successfully treated
hundreds of crocodile hides, as well as turn-
ing out ordinary leather for local use. About
seven years ago a German arrived, and the
abos. for miles around put in a lucrative
fortnight stripping the bark and bagging it.
However, after a couple of shipments had
gone south work was abandoned, owing, it
was said, to the tannin possessing bad quali-
ties which were too costly to eliminate.
What’s all this about lack of jobs for
returned soldiers? Here, get busy !
Wanted young man to drive cream van and milk.
Preference given to returned soldier. Wages 10s.
per week. Apply to A. Hughes, Broken Head.
Broken Head is up the North Cowst of N.
S. Wales, and the advt. appeared in the
I.ismore Star, so there’ll be no excuse for
saying you didn’t know the address.
A hearse conveying a coffin bolted in
George-street. Sydney, a few days ago. The
quick and the dead !
Walpeup (Vie.) has let woman into a
new job. It wanted a shire we:ghbridge-
keeper, so it gave the billet to a girl with its
blessing, £lO a year and half the fees.
The barque Pharos, 1227 tons, built by
the British firm of Saville in 1891, was sold
before the war to a Norwegian buyer for
£3500. Her last recorded sale price is
£38,750. So, at 25 years old, she is worth
over £3O a ton. The P. and O. Co. prior To
the war valued its fleet in the balance-sheets
at £9 a ton all round, floating palaces and
all.
“Circular Quay” : Now that Kink O’Mal-
ley is no longer Minister for Gold Passes,
will some plain bloke get a hammer and take
down the hoarding that says the Yank is
reconstructing Sydney Custom House? The
immense advertisement is a superfluous vul-
garity now. If the Kink is reconstructing
anything at present it is the fortunes of
O’Malley.
“0.A.5.”: Heroes are made easily on this
job. Recently a shell burst adjacent to our
advanced billets, leaving a crater from five to
seven feet deep. Our champion souvenir-
hunter (an officer, by the way) dived head-
long into the hole in quest of the nose-cap,
but emerged a second later and gave a clever
imitation of a shot rabbit. He had got a
noseful of the shell-fumes which always
accompany the bursting of a high explosive.
The patient was promptly picked up and
steered to the l nearest field hospital, from
which he was discharged for duty next day.
But as he had been reported “wounded in
action,” he is now entitled to wear the gold
stripe. Poor old Private Billjim-—if he had
poked his greedy nose in and been disabled
in the same way, he would have been clinked
and had his clean sheet smudged.
“Eddyson”: Tom Donald was home from
the wars: For the twentieth time in three
days he had limped on his new, mechanical
leg to the log fence at a point where the
sweet briar was thickest, under cover of
which he could sit and watch Benson’s
house. Only portion of the roof, the chim-
neys and one window of Benson’s were vis-
ible from here; and the single discernible
window was not Jean’s. To get a sight of
Jean’s window he must go up the creek, arid
round the hill by Scofield’s, and he was not
yet sufficiently master of the automatic leg
to take that on. Tommy had been con-
spicuously in love with Jean before the Hun
got at him and played this detestable trick
on him. Now he looked down at his pneu-
matic calf and sighed, and he looked at
Benson’s chimneys and groaned. lie con-
tinued. to look at the chimneys while a tear
ran down his cheek. A sob shook him, and
all the horrors of war and the. agonies, of
the hospital had not made him submit to a
sob. But Jean Benson ! —and Tommy was
calling to mind the brown of her eyes, the
goidy-brown curls about the nape of her
round, brown neck on warm days. This was
a warm day. “Gord, I wisht it had been me
head !” he said. “I wisht to Gord it had
been me head !” Ilis eyes were on the fac-
tory-made leg again. He looked round upon
the fair land and the glowing day, and
thought of their beauty and sweetness, but
always in relation to the beauty and sweet-
ness of Jean Benson. Somehow of late all
beautiful and pleasing things were linked
up with Jean Benson. If only he could
stand firmly on his own legs, hand in hand
with Jean Benson for the full enjoyment of
them! His own sufferings, sympathy with
the sufferings of others, and the terribly illu-
minating blaze of war had made something
of a poet of Tom. His eyes went back to
Benson’s house, he extended his arms to-
wards the shingled roof in an agony of
yearning; then knuckling the tears from his
eyes like a whipped schoolboy, he realised
himself with a spasm of shame. “It’s mak-
in’. a kid of me,” he said. His mind was
whipped away with startling suddenness; he
was conscious of acute pain and of her.
She stood before him, bareheaded, her fingers
clasping and unclasping, an expression of
anger softening to tears on her face. “Jean !”
he whispered. “You bin back three days,”
she said accusingly. He nodded. “Yes,”
he said ;“I came back Friday.” “You never
came across to see any of ns!” There was
bitterness in the tone. “No,” he answered
humbly. “You see I —l only got one leg.”
“After all that happened, you didn’t want to
see me?” “I got an autymatic leg, Jean.”
“You said you loved me, didn’t you?” “Yes.
I did; but —but I got an autymatic leg.”
“I know,” she said fiercely. “I heard. But
—but”—(a sudden storm of tears) —“I
didn’ think you’d be so stuck up about it !”


With old age comes inactive bowel
movement and sluggish liver. Through
weakness, nature is unable to perform
her proper functions, and requires assist-
ance ; without it there is constant suffer-
ing from constipation and its attendant
evils. Old folks should never use physics
that are harsh and irritating. With our
experience of the good results that have
been obtained by the use of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets we can unhesitatingly
recommend their use in preference to any
other medicine for aged people. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are gentle and soothing
in their action, cannot possibly produce
a disagreeable effect, and are in every
way reliable and beneficial to the whole
system.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are the ideal
medicine for children. No more nasty
medicines that you have to coax the child
to take. After they have once taken
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and realise how
easy they are to take, they will be ready
for them again. They are perfectly safe
for the youngest child and their use will
not result in constipation.
When the quantity of food taken is too
large, or the quality too rich, sour stomach
is likely to follow, and especially so if the
digestion has been weakened by constipa-
tion. .Eat slowly and not too freely of
easily-digested food. Masticate the food
thoroughly. Let five hours elapse between
meals, and when you feel a fullness and
weight in the region of the stomach after
eating, take Chamberlain’s Tablets and
the sour stomach may be avoided.
“That tired feeling” is not always
Caused by the weather, as some people
would have you believe. The fault
lies in some derangement of your diges-
tive organs. Your stomach is out of
order, as your liver has become sluggish
and refuses to perform its functions. All
you need is a dose, or two of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets, and that feeling of weari-
ness will disappear.
Constipation brings many ailments in
its train and is the primary cause of
much sickness. Keep your bowels regu-
lar by taking Chamberlain’s Tablets,
and you will escape many’ ailments
which make life a misery. Constipa-
tion is a simple thing, but like many
simple things it may lead to serious con-
sequences. Nature often needs a little
assistance, and when Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets are taken at the first symptom of any
irregularity much suffering and distress
may be avoided.
DON’T blame your boy if he is at all
stupid and always at the foot of his class.
You are the stupid one, because you never
thought of his liver; that is where the
trouble lies. A sluggish liver makes a
sluggish mind. Chamberlain’s Tablets
act directly upon the liver and make you
feel bright and active,
Irritability, like headache, is evidence
of some disorder of the body, generally
either indigestion or constipation, and the
cause must be removed. To relieve the
indigestion and stimulate the bowels to a
regular natural habit take a course of
Chamberlain’s Tablets. They have a
marvellous effect on the stomach, liver
and bowels, and relieve all disorders of
these organs.
It is anything but pleasant to awake
with a bad taste in the mouth. This
always arises from a disordered stomach
and may be corrected by taking a dose of
Chamberlain’s Tablets immediately before
retiring. They cleanse and invigorate
the stomach, improve the digestion and
give one a relish for his food. They are
easy to take and pleasant in effect.
MILLIONS rush in mad chase of
health from one extreme of faddism to
another, when, if they would only eat
good food and keep their bowels regulated
with Chamberlain’s Tablets their trouble
would at once pass away.
$
%
L W//
a
w
ft
s/
&
■ ■
L 0
ra v:-
w*
©
3©
Ksf
S 3»
i o
&V 2
f. J /
svi
Pictures
by-
OIAMPE??Lk!NS
Tadlets -
Beware of those dizzy spells that so often affect
you - “ Vertigo ” is what the doctors call it.
It is often accompanied by that tired
feeling, absence of appetite and extreme
nervousness. It is your liver that is
wrong; you are bilious —this means a
poor circulation, a congested brain, a
disordered stomach, constipated bowels.
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach
and liver are what you need —they act
directly on the liver. You need only
one each night for a few nights and you
will soon be right again.
Those affected with dizzy spells
should be most particular about their
bowels. If they do not move during
the day do not wait until another day
but take one of Chamberlain’s Tablets
that very night.
You may think this a very trifling
matter, yet the more you study this
question the more you will be convinced
of the great importance of having these
daily movements of the bowels.
For biliousness, constipation, belching,
gas on the stomach, foul breath, head-
ache, bloating, etc., there is nothing
to equal
01AMKBUIN5TABLE15
J&r ~THE. Stomach o Livep.
The fact that indigestion and constipa-
tion are fruitful causes’of organic diseases
cannot be widely known, or these only-
too-cominon complaints would not be neg-
lected, as they frequently are. “It is
only indigestion” is a common remark,
and few realise that indigestion may be
termed “starvation of the body,” for food
that is not digested is not assimilated by
the blood and the body is not properly
nourished. Chamberlain’s Tablets will
relieve the most obstinate case of indi-
gestion. Many a long sufferer owes hi's
present good health to a course of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets.
Constipation resembles nothing so
much as the stopping of the sewerage
system of a city, and you know the out-
break of disease that would result if
this should happen. Then try to realise
the danger to yourself if you allow
your bowels to become clogged. The
poisonous matter which should pass off is
absorbed into the blood, which is the
cause of numerous diseases. When you
are troubled this way there is just one
thing to do—get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They cleanse and invigorate
the stomach and bowels, and clear the
system of all foul accumulations and re-
store it to a normal condition.
Indigestion and dyspepsia wear out
body and brain, for owing to imperfect
assimilatipn of food they do not receive
the required nourishment. Constipation
ensues and the victim becomes weak and
haggard. Chamberlain’s Tablets stimu-
late the digestive organs to perfect action,
compelling complete digestion and assimi-
lation of food, and strengthen the bowels
so that they act naturally and regularly.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
0? J.CoWis Brownes
CWorodvwe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Coush of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effeeti .lly
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/8, 8/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
HA
Incubato
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
I'he “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Tlie Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
SBilii,
i sed since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES. WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England*
Insist on “Singleton’s"—refuse all substitutes.
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
ħ
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —-you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Farts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
•Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
jin.
fi,
> (h. ‘ \SB
For Any Kind of Game
there is a REMINGTON-
UMC Cartridge that will
give the surest results.
And this regardless of the
make of your favourite arm.
Secure a new General Catalogue
from your dealer, or, if he can’t
supply you, write us direct for a
free copy. Post free.
The Remington Arms
Union Metallic Cartridge
Company |
Wool worth Building
[ New York, U. S. A.
h
D. D. BRYANT, Manager for Australia, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne,


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
ĥ
Gentlemen
Who Demand
style, fit, quality and comfort in
their footwear will find their needs
fully satisfied if they wear
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a Special high-grade
Patent Bah, with Perforated
Golosh and Grey Suede Legs.
37/6 and 45/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings:
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOE OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
s
H
wmmjn
m
<
•n
%
%
*s
n
ħ
Ja Cuerre
jC’industrie.
War .
. Commerce
GRANTING that proven efficiency in military work argues
peculiar fitness for private or industrial service, the war
achievements of British Avon Tyres are of vital interest to users
of motor transport in these difficult times, q Avon endurance is
the one economical factor left in motoring to-day. Is it operating
in your garage ?
m
jn
m
as
mt
3SSS
Hah
sland :
N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence St., Sydney
H. C. PANNIFEX, 22 MarKet St., Melbourne
Agents for N.S.W. (EL Queen
Agents for Victoria:
5*5
%
The
American
Indian —
used to pull out the
hairs on his face to
prevent the growth
of a beard. Even such
torture is almost
preferable to the use
of some shaving
soaps of today.
If your face burns
after shaving—if the
lather dries before you are through, or if you have
to soften the beard by ‘‘rubbing in,” you are using
the wrong shaving preparation.
SHAVING CREAM
(IN A COLLAPSIBLE TUBE)
not only softens the beard, but leaves a cooling effect upon the skin'
makes a smooth, thick lather which does not dry.
Once used, always used — rf MENNEN’S ”
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS and STORES
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN.
h
This is the right way to clean a window
Are you still using ordinary soap
and water on your windows and
then trying to rub away the smears
and blurs?
Try the American way with Bon
Ami. This unique material is
made of a very soft, crumbly, non-
scratching white mineral. You rub
the cake of Bon Ami with a wet
cloth and get a creamy lather,
which you apply to the glass.
Let it dry on the glass for a min-
ute and the Bon Ami becomes a
dry, soft, white powder. Wipe
this oif with a soft, dry cloth and
presto! your window is cleaner
than you ever saw it before!
It is all done in a couple of minutes.
In the United States almost every-
body cleans their windows this
way.
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.”
o<s:?vvgv?
1=
ĥ
For all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning ||


RED FACES
RED HANDS
RED SCALP
II H M/|
mini
And other
distressing,
| disfiguring
skin troubles
cleared by-
baths with
Cuticura
Soap
followed by-
anointings
With Cutictira Ointment
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Boole. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
“Well gentlemen I take
off my hat to you,—
m
m
m
such a beautifully
made rifle and such
shooting I never
expected to see...
Up to 800 yards I
could hit anything
I shot at... I killed
a big bull, over 500
yards away, and did
it so easy... The
‘ Ross ’ is good
enough for me... It
has a nice balance,
is light and has a
nice feel to it. I
will say to anyone who is looking for the
best thing in Rifles get a ‘Ross’ .280,
and you will never be disappointed.”
JAS. L. McLAUGHLIN, Hunter and Guide,
Valley, Wyoming.
In his enthusiastic praise of the Ross .280
Rifle, Mr. McLaughlin echoes the apprecia-
tion of the most skilled of the big game
hunters all over the world. Using the .280
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper tube
expanding bullet ( patented) it is a wonderful
help towards a successful trip. Any game
fairly hit is anchored. 101 5
AT LEADING DEALERS
Illustrated catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec. Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
f@3
m
M
m
*3
||
o
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
ij oz. shot.
ELEY
'320 Revolver
ELEY
‘32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The Best Bonus-paying Life Office in the World,
UL mrS DISTKIB UTION Oi’ CASH SURPLUS as at 31st December, 1916.
C YSH IJOS rs”v-' C | le II f ffected befole that date will share in th e CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
“ONUS divided tor one year, 1913 .. ..o,„
TW-V'if Beveps , , ?“ a r y “Editions to policies of about ‘ ‘ '' "£] s<loOOO
Tola! Bonuses dUtrlbuled since-inception ot Society .. .'i .’i .‘i
The whole of V i lh 1 MITIAL NO SHAREHOLDERS.
Now is the time to orTfi ,ith participatin « Policyholders,
tins year’s Bonus. Al * e » 01 a * ul thei assurance, so as to reap the benefit ot
of the fUII particidars to the llead Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent
RICHARD r IKK< [., KI.A., h.F.-A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
The Toot al Guaranteed line of British - made Cotton Fabrics
TARANTULLE
fo r
-fs^y-V
,' h
sm
\.
fML-
-1
Dainty Home Sewn Lingerie
and Baby Wear
WHETHER for the
trousseau or for ordinary
renewals, you will find
Tarantulle is as exquisite as eco-
nomical. Pleasurable to sew,
delightful to wear, lastingly good
in the wash. Absolutely free
from dressing—ideal for Layettes.
40 inches wide in 3 weights:—
Standard . 1/1 per yard
Fine 1/6 „ , f
Superfine 1/9 (i
To be had from all Good Class Stores
'3'&BRALCCr>
tootal» cumuwiu it
The favourite
wash dress
Reg’d.
fabric at Home. Sound, service-
able, easily done up without starch.
Delightful variety of patterns and
indelible colors. Name on selvedge.
White, per yard. Colors
and Prints, 13id. per yard
Other Tootal Guaranteed Lines
TOOTAL PIQUE. Double width, soft and
supple. In white and colors.
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN. Ready to
wear, replaced free if they lose color.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for Ladies' and
Children's wear.—32 inches wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
LADIES. Self-while and indelible borders.
PYRAMID HANUKKRCHIEI'S FOR
MEN. Self-white and indelible borders.
TOOTAL CLOTH. The guaranteed velvet
fabric —more supple than silk velvet.
Tootal Broadhurst Lee Company, Ltd., Manchester, England
Australian Agents
STOGDALE & SONS PTY. Ltd, Finks Buildings,
MELBOURNE, and York Street. SYDNEY
.•<rV: *X/-• , :.^hss* s^
•‘*lv
I
&
viTJi&jZri
;■.: v
3
Sfe-s;
o:#*
✓
ħ
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘Phosfibrine
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
cxiraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and ingivingback the prematurely aged New Life a id Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes: —
“I have the_ utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.'
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton \& Parsons Ltd, of London, Would appreciate your courtesy! if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in Jits place, and the [cost of postage
i refunded to you. I |
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
25 O’Connell St<
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
The Inky Way.
“J.F.IL”: Our latest London journalistic
venture, the Sunday Evening Telegram,
is not likely to survive the war. The half-
dozen Sunday morning papers supply all
that is necessary on the Sabbath in normal
times. Some of these now issue special Sun-
day-evening editions when the war-news
received after morning cliurch-time looks
sensational enough to attract the coppers.
There is, by the way, an Evening Tele-
GitAPir, but nobody ever buys it. Lord
Burnham, of the Daily Telegraph, did not
like the idea of anybody else using the title,
so to prevent the issue of a real Evening
Telegraph he has for many years had a
dummy paper with that title struck off every
afternoon by his printers. Only six copies
come from the press, and they enable him to
hold the copyright.
* * * »
“Bunkie” : Though his skin and the price
thereof are frequent enough in the commer-
cial columns, the ’possum has only got into
the news section of Melbourne papers three
times in 10 years. The first occasion was
when a ringtail fired a building at Ballarat
by, climbing through the window of a lean-
to and upsetting a lamp under an incubator.
It was before the days of the 1.W.W., so
the Argus gave him three headings. When
Jack Davidson, now editor of the Herald,
was leading the Argus gallery staff, he gave
half a column to another ’possum which a
Parliamentary wag caught in the Exhibition
Gardens and let loose in the Assembly. The
latest instance should rouse our effete law-
givers to take steps against this ferocious
animal. When the Herald’s roundsman '
glanced at the hospital casualty book re-
cently he was confronted with the entry
‘‘ possum-bite.” It recalled Kipling’s babu
dispenser at a jungle hospital where the
prevalent complaints were logged as
“astliama,” “numonia,” “skindiseas,” “dab-
alaty” and “loin-bite.” Inquiry as to the
possum-bite showed that a Brunswick boy
had climbed a tree, and a ’possum, disputing
possession, had bitten him on the finger. One
would as soon expect a man to be chewed
by a sheep.
Grave warning from the leading columns
of Sydney D.T. (18/12/T6) : .
If it is to go on as it is going it will verv soon
have to cease.
Yes,_ or if it doesn’t it is quite obvious that
it will have to come to an end.
“A.M.”: Reading Sydney Sun I said
“Hear, hear !” to a wrathful attack on the
industrial unrest in N. S. Wales. The
paper demanded to know why we should
think of anything but the winning of the
war. I chirruped “Hear hear!” again and
dashed at the stop-press news to learn the
latest from the battlefields. There it was.
in letters of blood :
Kembla Grange Races. Results. Late Scratchings.
Then in meditation fancy free (or words to
that effect) I concluded my long sleever.
Another of the earlist Victorians has
“gone west”—the Richmond Australian,
first published in 1553. In the early days
before the local Guardian scooped the sub-
scribers, the Australian was the organ of
the bay-side from Melbourne to Sorrento.
George Whitehurst, the last proprietor, ran
it for the past 20 years more as a hobby than
as a money-maker.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: Hail a new adjective!
It is only in the journals of the men of the
Dominions that we are likely to happen on humor-
ous verse which has the <roo°lie flavor of the latest
Backblocks poet of the Sydney Bulletin.
It is a sentence from an essay on the jour-
nalism of the trenches which fills the front
page of the latest literary supplement of
the London Times. But what is a “googlie
flavor”? Something that gets there when
you least expect it? Incidentally, the Times
sees -the different mentality of the French
and the British reflected in the way their
trench journals regard the Hun. The Brit-
ish idea is: “Poor devil! He knows no
better! He is a savage brute and a dirty
fighter, _ but what’s the use of being angry
with him?” Traditional and racial influ-
ences make that tolerant, easy-going atti-
tude utterly unintelligible to the French.
The latter’s soldier-journals are on a much
higher literary and artistic level, Francois
having “an inborn sense of the dramatic.”
But, whatever they are, “these little trench
papers will teach future generations how
joyously a younger race of athletes, without
banners or music or gay uniforms, addressed
themselves to their tragic task. Time in its
passage will ennoble all these ephemeral
things.”
MY OLD TYPEWRITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Carry it out, for its work is done,
The strength has gone from the worn-out keys
That tried tp capture a shaft of sun,
Or click a rhyme of the morning breeze.
Dead are the elves who used to play
At hide-and-seek in the notes by night,
And the clang of the bell is no more gay,
And the small dead fairies look so white!
You have toiled in your time, my old machine,
Catching the Thought for the printer’s ink;
When the scrapheap gathers what once has been
'There is rosemary laid on your board, I thiifk ;
And old hates rise up in a flash of flame,
Old, angry words that you have clashed forth;
And old loves lie low with a cheek of shame
That we should have forgotten—both love and
wrath!
The tethered poem, the story-tale,
The pixie fancy, the frothy jest,
And the pleading word that could not avail,
It has gone to the scrapheap with the rest!
Did your weak wires lock? Were you in disgrace?
A feeble, doddering, spent machine?
Was it time that you hid your battered face
Where the grave of your youth is smooth ana
green ?
Typesetters over my manuscript
Will at least rejoice that you cease to be;
To hieroglyphics you often tripped,
And your aim was sometimes a mystery.
But only I know what you were to me,
And only I know (with a half-despair,
For empty moments which yet may be)
How many fairies lie buried there!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


GET A GUN
and Go Out for a Shoot.
RIFLES & RIFLE CARTRIDGES. As soon as the restriction on these goods
has been lifted we will notify the public through our advertisements.
We Repair GUNS,
RIFLES & REVOLVERS
h
817. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L. Pigeon
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels,
both choke, Greener cross-bolt, high file-cut rib, pistol-grip, chambered for
2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight. 71b. to Delivered
£7
We can supply the above gun in 16- gauge
Delivered, £7/10/-
Ski
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.1i. Gun, 12- or 10-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
barrels.
extension rib, rebounding- locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 71b.
Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
45-
h
Harrington anti
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action,
solid case-liardened lochs, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip
walnut stock; weight, about Gun can' be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
bi-Non-Ejector, 22/6 ; 82-Auto-Ejector, 25/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
Smoke SUNOL Tobacco.
HIGHEST GRADE VIRGINIAN.
Sample 2oz. Packet, 1 Id., Post Free.
ĥ
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-
steel barrels, 28in„ full choke, take-down system, chambered for
2Jin. shells. Magazine holds 5 cartridges,
rubber butt-plate. Weight. 7J11). Delivered .
£B/10/
838. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12-gauge, simiia
description to J 837 Delivered, £B/10/'
Send for our new edition
Firearms and Sporting
Catalogue. Post Free.
»s
SC
SSs
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable’’ D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel barrels,
Greener cross-bolt, both choke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
half-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from 711 b. to 7£lb. Delivered
£7/10
The restriction prohibiting the sale of Shotguns and Shotgun Cartridges having
been removed by the Military Authorities, we are now in a position to fulfil
any orders for these goods.
ħ
HAYMARKET
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBAN
n
LOCAL
ms
10
-AO-
R
~L
1
X
A
PATRIOTISM
_ Your
Aim? e
Then have
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'I
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager-, who will quote you pi’ice for it.
Is Your
Baby
Delicate?
Fed from birth on the ‘ Allenhurys’ Foods.
Mother and Child.
Baby 6y 2 months.
WHAT a marked difference there is
between the fretful, puny, ailing infant,
and the child whose face always bears
the smile and look of perfect health and con-
tentment. Mothers should early realize that much
depends on How Baby is Fed. The right food
given at the proper age means rest and comfort
for the mother and a sound healthy constitution
for her little one in after years. If, for any
reason, Baby cannot be given the natuial food,-
do not select a substitute merely because it is
cheap in price. Adopt what experience has
proved to be the Simplest and Most Successful
Method of Infant Feeding, i.e., The ‘Allenburys’
Foods. These Foods provide a Pure, Complete and
Progressive Dietary specially adapted to each
stage of a child’s development. They aie not
expensive to buy when judged by the uniform good
results which follow their use; this is the true
standard of comparison. The‘Allenburys’Foods are
used and recommended by members of the Medical
and Nursing Professions throughout the world.
The Foods that contain all the essential elements
to promote brain and body development.
i&llenbimjs’ Foods
mF* Write for free beak “Infant Management ,**
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
MILK FOOD No. 1. From Birth to
3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. From 3 to
7 months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3. From
7 months upwards.
RUSKS (Malted). From 10 months.
THE ‘ALLENBURYS’ FEEDER
Simplest, Safest, and Best.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
13, Market Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
1
I
I
m
*V, ..-bury 5'
“*janburus IM
t\\eP
J&9
Pill
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes fron*
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 09.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all I ar-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
o
mrirfl
T
Make Your
Own Cans.
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is 5000
or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your needs. Send us sapJ pies
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
Correspondence in all Languages.
Address Dept . C-#4.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Conn .
Agent: H. W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.


Another REXONA Beauty
Miss CECIL BRADLEY
mu
m
*jn
*V >■
mm
■- ippi
~;Sr
i!
ill
ml
IHr US
Miss CECIL BRADLEY (from a photo, by Monte Lube).
Beautiful CECIL BRADLEY is a
favorite with all Australian playgoers,
who look forward with interest to the
notable future so evidently before this
charming young Australian artiste. A
true Rexona girls is Miss Bradley. She
writes:—
I want you to add me to your
list of Rexona girls, for I truly
am one, and I want to add my
praise to Rexona and Rexona
Soap. What a healer Rexona is!
I always keep one of your dainty
little triangular pots of Rexona
on my dressing-table, and have
one of the little sample tins that
I fill from the larger pot, and
carry it in my purse wherever I
go-. I always use it after surfing
or being out in the sun, and once
when I jambed my finger I
found it most soothing and heal-
ing. In emergencies Rexona is
something that can always be
depended upon.
As for Rexona Soap, I think it
is truly delightful, it is so re-
freshing, and I find keeps my
complexion in the pink of condi-
tion. I used to use shampoo
powders for my hair; now I
never use' anything but Rexona
Soap. It makes a most beautiful
shampoo for the hair, and leaves
the hair so soft and lovely. No
wonder you see it everywhere,
for I am sure Rexona Soap is a
luxury that all girls must appre-
ciate.
I can assure you I will always
be a true Rexona girl.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) CECIL BRADLEY.
TRY THE REXONA REMEDIES
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona the Rapid Healer, and Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap, both universal favorites. The wonderful healing powers of Rexona have
made it a password in nearly every home irt Australia. Rexona Soap is the best
preservative for the Skin and Hair that is obtainable, and leaves the hair soft, fluffy
and luxuriant. Try the Rexona Remedies yourself and prove our words. Rexona,
1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
h
*
7T>!
“Oh, but Fishing does
Make One Hungry ”
When you pack the basket for the week-end nr
£??£ afternoon fishes' expedition, include a tin or
“REX”
CAMP PIE
&£«?•« =
Kitchens! It i? tLSftinJ’'Smi^!;SS tl ?° ,Pom the f,mous R «
spsssi« vet js nsr*^ 1 * S’®
Ask your Grocer for a tin also of—
ĥ
Rex Luncheon Cheese
The cheese that comes in solder-
less sanitary tins and opal porce-
lain jars. Piquant, appetizing,
easi y diges ed and economical.
Other "Rex'’ Goods are—
“ Rex" Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Bex” Pork Sausages, life. tins.
‘Rex” Pork and Beans, lilb. tins.
4*.1» ukaSE* *» »**"*■•
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
CUR RS OF “REX’’HAMS AND BACON
PACKERS OF “ REX ” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS
The Furrow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
SHUT your eyes, and be at peace.
Though the world be not for you ;
Though its song and splendor cease
In an hour, perchance, or two;
Though the silken breezes roam
And the velvet waters flow,
’Tis Home, Home, Home,
With a heart at ease you go.
Though your skies were brazen-arched,
And the lands about you bare,
And your life lame-footed marched
From high hope to grim despair;
Though the’ furrow that you ploughea
Was in starved and stony soil,
Spirit-bent and body-bowed,
Here's an end to all your toil.
Though there’s twilight in the skies.
And the grey trees shadowed bend,
Clear and deep your furrow lies,
True and straight from end to end ;
Though a curlew calls afar
Through the dewy evening air,
Under sun, and moon, and star
It will lie forever there.
Though ’tis little that you brought
To the world’s accomplishment,
Though in barren fields you wrought,
Body-bowed and spirit-bent,
When the ploughmen take their pay
And the final furrow’s turned,
’Twill be found upon that day
That your wage was truly earned.
In the rain-time, in the dew,
In the noontide’s heat and glare,
Came the ploughman Care to you,
And he drove his cruel'share
Through the nodding flowers of life,
Grimly pleased to see them fall.
Oh, the passion and the strife,
Oh, the heartache of it all!
Shut your eyes and be at rest,
Weary toiler, heavy-tasked ;
You have done your little best,
And no more than that was asked;
Though ’tis tired of foot we roam,
Far and near and high and low,
’Tis Home, Home, Home,
With a heart at eas.e you go.
n.s.aV.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Salters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
EVERYBODY admitted Dr. Gibson’s
skill in the practice of his profession
and almost everybody liked him per-
sonally. The exceptions consisted of a few
who wished to constitute themselves a special
class in the town and expected the medical
man to join them. But he received their
advances coldly: he preferred to take his
friends where he found them, irrespective of
any clique and without regard to whether
they wore dungarees or a. different sort of
clothes. Yet even these select ones could
not dispute his ability as a surgeon; they
only regretted that he was not also a gentle-
man. On the other hand, his best friends
spoke of him as simply a fool in mining
matters. Any old battler had merely to come
to him with a pocket full of gold-flecked
gravel and a tongue .in his head and
The doctor during his two and a half
years in Dingo Flat had spent much money
in his efforts to help the development of the
district, and, incidentally, his own bank
account, but so far had little to show bar-
ring sundry holes in the ground. By the
end of that time all his interests had been
dropped, one after another, until there was
left only Mt. Gibson. His ewe lamb, he
called it. The finders of this show, being
ardent admirers of the medical man, had
named it after him. Subsequently he had
bought them out one by one (there were
three of them) as they became discouraged
or got an attack "of the wandering sickness.
Now therefore he owned it all and was as
incurably sanguine about it as if he had
never had a rebuff.
Dr. Gibson had two men working this
claim for him—Bill and Jack Hamilton,
brothers, whom he had employed in many
other places and who were devoted to him.
They were his good friends, inasmuch as
they acted as a curb to his over-sanguine
temperament and on many occasions had
kept him from throwing good money after
bad. He realised this well and had the
greatest respect for their judgment and
honesty. Bill Hamilton was thirty-two,
short,, thick-set, red, somewhat irascible.
Jack, twenty-seven, was tall, lean, taciturn.
The district had become very unpopular
with investors. In eighteen months four
batteries had been erected within a radius
of ten miles of Dingo Flat, and in each case
the first crushing had been the last. The
Reward, which according to the manager
and sundry “mining experts,” was a two-
ounce show, went two pennyweights. The
Cliffs —ah, yes, the Cliffs. A whole moun-
tain here was to be passed through the bat-
tery for an average of ten ’weights. Then
the battery spoke and it said ten grains.
And so on. Naturally the locality was
banned. Investors or their representatives
still came through on their way to other
fields, but nothing would induce them to
look at anything in the neighborhood. It
had been that way many months. But
lately it had been whispered that a great
improvement had taken place in Mt. Gibson;
and it was understood (had, in fact,
appeared in black and white in the
Clarion) that special efforts on the part
of the owner were likely to result very soon
in a visit from a Kalgoorlie expert. “Now
they’ll see,” we said ; “and once these people
see for themselves what the district really
i 5”.... We were to be over-run with in-
vestors- tumbling over one another to get
into the good things.
At 4 o’clock of a warm Sunday afternoon
the Hamilton brothers sat in their camp
on the side of a hill, smoking. The camp
consisted of large bough shed, with two
sleeping tents in the corners at the rear
end, and a table, with fixed legs, in the
middle. They were evidently engaged dis-
cussing a difficult point.
“Well, we got to do it, an’ that’s all about
it.’’
“No,” said Jack; “we haven’t got to do
it.”
“What else can we do?”
“Nothing!”
“I ain’t goin’ to sit ’ere doin’ nothing
while a good man an’ a good friend to you
an’ me goes down. What’s the odds? These
people can afford it. A few thousand’s
nothing to them.”
“That isn’t the point.”
“It’s-the only point I can see. I tell you
the doctor’s pinched pretty bad. I can see
it. He’s a game ’un. He tries not to
show it. All the same, it’s there.”
“It’s crook work —you can’t get over that.
And we’ve always gone straight. It’s
breaking the law.”
“I’d break fifty flamin’ laws for the old
doctor. ’Tain’t as if we was doin’ it fer
ourselves. An’ don’t forget he saved your
life. You said so often yourself.”.
Jack got up and moved about uneasily.
The other watched him closely. He went
to the door and looked out along the track.
Then he came back and sat down.
“He’s coming,” he said. “All right. I’m
in.”
The other put out his hand and they
gripped silently.
“Good day, Doc.,” said Bill, the next
moment.
“Good day, Bill. Day, Jack. It’s good
to be with you out here in the bush. Don’t
know what I’d do if I hadn’t these trips
into the Mulga to look forward to. How are
you both?”
“I’m first rate, Doctor, but Jack looks a
bit liverish, or else it’s one of his dour days.
Our Scotch blood, ye know. Anyway, he
took one o’ your pills, to be on the safe
side.”
"Well,” said the doctor, smiling, as he
seated himself, “if it doesn’t do him any
good, at least it won’t hurt him. And how
is our little hole in the ground looking?”
“Better than ever. Something fresh here
to show you.”
He went into one of the tents, brought
out a calico bag and emptied the contents
on to the table. The doctor examined the
pieces of quartz, first with the naked eye,
then through a lens the miner handed him.
“What’ll this go? Five ounces?”
“Nearer ten.”
“Much of it?”
“Not all as good as that, of course. That’s
the best. But the reef’ll go over two
ounces where that comes from.”
“You think it’s all right, then?”
“I do, and so does Jack.”
The doctor looked inquiringly towards the
latter.
“Oh, yes! she’s all right. Only it’s not
what we think that counts. It’s got to
satisfy those Boulder fellows, and they want
a deuce of a lot these days.”
“Well, they’ll be in the Flat to-night and
here to-morrow.”
“Couldn’t be better,” said Bill. “We’ll
show ’em something’ll surprise even them.”
“And, mind, you boys have stuck to me
well and have, I know, saved me throwing
away many a pound ; and if this deal comes
off you won’t be forgotten. So long! See
you next Sunday.”
The medical man gone, the brothers set
about getting tea. They intended that it
should be a good solid meal, for they were
going to work a long shift after it. And
it teas solid. As they sat smoking after-
wards, the elder said:
“We must tie those tent doors tight before
going down.”
“Why? Think anyone’s likely to rob us
or^ that it would matter if they did?”
“No, I don’t. But if someone did come
and found the place all opefi, he’d think we
was somewhere about an’ go lookin’ for us.
But if he found it shut up he’d think we’d
gone somewheres an’ he’d go too.”
“Yes! I didn’t think of that.”
. “You wouldn’t think of anything if I
didn’t tell you. Buck up now, an’ don’t look
so miserable. There’s no danger.”
“I'll be all right. Don’t you worry.”
A little after eight that night two figures
were moving along the hillside. Presently
they disappeared and nothing more was to
be seen of them until just before dawn. Then
they reappeared and their faces looked pale
and haggard. Still, there was a look of
subdued triumph, as of something accom-
plished.
“That ought to about fix up ’Awkins,”
said the elder.
i “It would fix him,” said the younger, “if
ne was ten times as clever as they say he
is.”
“Conscience ain’t troublin’ you now?”
“Oh. to hell with my conscience! I knew
from the jump I was in it. anyway. That
was only my way of pretending to be better
than you. You’re worth a dozen of me.”
The other only shook his head and laughed
indulgently.
* * * *
At 10 o’clock “Boulder” Hawkins, as he
was called, and his assistant came on the
scene. They nearly took the brothers’breath
away by informing them that they had
started for the mine the previous night, but
had missed the track and found themselves
at Quartz Hill, whence they had driven
across. They went to business right away,
spending the remainder of that and two
more days breaking stone and dollying and
panning off and collecting samples and
bagging, sealing and labelling them. And
during that time not a word did they let
fall nor a sign did they give that would
hint the least indication of their opinion of
the show. It was only when they were hav-
ing a parting glass with the brothers that
Hawkins spoke.
“I like the look of it,” he said. “Of
course there’s no certainty until we’ve gone
through those”—pointing to the samples.
But it certainly looks promising. Wilkie
thinks so too—which is important. He’s
s<> much more difficult than I am.
(Wilkie smiled his quiet smile.) “Thanks'
boys,” he continued. “You’ve looked after
us well and made our trip very pleasant
whatever comes of it. And when next
you re m Kalgoorlie, if you’ll look ns up
(Continued on next page.)


KEEP HANDY
SORE, ACHING FEET
Mrs. M. Gunson, of
157 Hoddle Street,
West Richmond, Mel-
bourne, writes: —“l
am a canvasser, and
am, therefore, con-
stantly on my feet.
My insteps became
very tender and broke
out in sores, which
forced me to lay up
for several days. I
applied different lo-
tions, but they utterly
failed to give me re-
lief. Seeing Zam-Buk
advertised, I procured
a pot.' Before I had
used half of it the
sores were all healed,
and the burning, irri-
tating feeling had left
my feet.”
in the home, workshop or
factory a pot of Zam-Buk.
Directly Zam-Buk is applied
to a wound or sore it allevi-
ates the pain and inflamma-
tion, reduces swelling - , and
prevents the place “ taking-
bad ways," Not only is
Zam-Buk a reliable healing:
agfent, it also has splendid
antiseptic properties. lis
active constituents being: so
pure and wholesome
HEAT RASHES and
SWELLINGS.
Mrs. Julia A. Rich-
ardson, First Avenue,
St. Peters, Adelaide,
says: —“A rash, which
I think was prickly
heat, came out all
over me, and painful
hard lumps formed.
While this lasted 1
could get very little
rest, but on using
Zam-Buk my skin was
soothed and I was very
quickly eased of ail
irritability. Persisting
with Zam-Buk I soon
had the pleasure of see-
ing new skin form.
Zam-Buk completely
cured me.”
amßuk
INSECT BITES,
Mrs. M. Bridges, of
85 Keppell Street, Carl-
toil, Melbourne, says:
“Last summer an in-
sect bit me on the
right arm. My arm
swelled up to an enor-
mous size. I became
so alarmed that I con-
sulted a doctor. I
used the ointment he
prescribed, but my
arm became worse. My
grocer urged me to try
Zam-Buk. I was de-
lighted with the way
Zam-Buk reduced the
inflammation, drew out
all poisonous matter,
and restored my arm
to its former condi-
tion,”
is a perfect healing Balm f >r
every-day household use. In
a natural way Zam-Buk
stops the growth of harmful
microbes that account for the
festering of a neglected or
wrongly-treated sore, and
causes the tissues, which it has
first made clean in a medical
sense, to knit together once
more, until all trace of the sore
or injury has gone. Zam-Buk
therefore should be kept handy
Zam-Buk is un-
surpassed for cuts,
bruises, burns, abra-
sions, irritable skin,
bolls, sprains, itch,
stiffness, strained
muscles, sunburn,
sore feet, etc.
Zam-Buk is ob-
tainable from all
Chemists & Stores,
at 1/6 and 3/6, or
direct from C. E.
Fulford (Aus.), Ltd.,
39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
fooXMAS mishap
///////
BBS
A
® K ©
f 0
mx\ m
ħ
O Q
; f
Guard Against Substitution
The “ VALET ” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.
we’ll try to give you a little of your own
back —eh, Wilkie?”
They turned to wave just before disappear-
ing from view.
"Bit rough,” said Bill, scratching his
head, “that you can’t do a good turn to
one man without hurtin’ another.”
"It’s hell, isn’t it?” replied Jack, smiling
ruefully.
* ' * * *
It was again Sunday and the brothers
were sitting in their camp, expectant.
“He’s late,” said Bill. “Bad case most
likely.”
“Either that or the news is bad and he’s
in no hurry to bring it.”
“Oh, the news is all right. Only hope
he’s had the sense to stick out for a thump-
ing deposit. Here he is.”
The doctor looked up and waved a hand,
then bent down again over the handle bars.
“Good news,” said the eldeV, “or I’m no
judge.”
“Looks like it.’i
Presently they were shaking hands. The
doctor kept hold of them, one each, in his
strong grip and beamed.
“Everything’s right, Bill and Jack,” he
said. “Took a six months’ option. They
have to do the work now.”
“What terms?”
“I get 10,000 fully paid-up fl shares.”
“‘But the cash? Ain’t they givin’ you
any cash?”
“No cash, Bill. I take it all in shares.”
“But —don’t tell me there’s no deposit!”
“No ! there’s no deposit.”
“Good God!”
Jack could say nothing—only stared open-
mouthed.
“Why, what’s the matter? It’s only a
few months. Look at the Princess Ida.
Soon after the six months were up the
vendors were offered £3 a piece for their
shares.”
“The Ida people took good care to get a
£2500 deposit.”
“So much the worse. There would have
been 2500 more shares to sell at £3. Come,
don’t look so glum! Hawkins himself is
just as sanguine about it as you were.
Whatever’s changed you? Think I’m short
of ready cash? It’s not that bad yet. And
while they’re proving this you chaps can be
looking around for something else. We’re
partners still, aren’t we?”
“I should think so,” said Bill.
- “Just as long as you have any use for
us, Doc.,” said Jack.
“That’s all right, then. What about that
whisky you were going to ask me to have?”
As he was leaving the doctor handed an
envelope to each of the brothers. When they
opened them they found in each case a signed
transfer of UOO fully paid-up Mt. Gibson
shares. They looked at one another.
“Blanky hard work tryin’ to help a fool,
ain’t it?” said Bill.
Jack could say nothing. He turned to
make up the fire for tea.
LIZARD.
The Phonograph and the
Perfect Cooker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
AWHILE ago I owned a phonograph
which was cursed with a tempera-
ment. In its gentler moods it was
a thing of joy. Its rendering of “Love
Birds” and “Baby’s Shoes” would jday upon
our very heartstrings. Then there was its
version of-that uplifting thing, “The Kooka-
burras’ Chorus.” It was simply immense
with its performance of “The Mopoke’s
Lament,” and “Father’s Hair Is Thinning
Now” once drew tears from the eyes pf an
agent who was forcing a sale at our door-
stop.
But this phonograph, when in savage
mood, was a thing of jibbing, cantankerous
habit. It would stop en route to one of
Melba’s highest notes to sneeze and whine
like a jackal coughing in a cavern. A
drinking bout of the best oil or a rest cure
would sometimes appease it. There was
one occasion when, a possible, purchaser of
the accursed thing being present, it made
the singer of an aria from “Othello” begin
barking (unless the record lied)“ like a dog.
“Yap! G-r-r-r-YAP! G-r-r-YAP!” it
yelped. So realistic was the imitation that
the buffoon of my household, a person whose
sense of humor has long been my bane,
offered the thing a bone.
For the sake of a possible sale I had
turned the fiasco off as casually as might
be with vague references to defective
records. But the purchaser asked to hear
the aria again. Confound the fellow, he
had no tact! Half-way through the exqui-
site air the barking and snarling was re-
peated, several dogs, by that time, seeming
to have joined in the fight.
The purchaser, with an absent eye and
a jingling of coin in his pocket, said : -“How
much you arskin’ —fer th’ whole box o’
snakes?”
“Three pound ten,” I answered firmly,
“and a bargain too. Phonograph, tripod,
floral horn, two carrying”
“And the dog thrown in!” It was the
buffoon again, deliberately spoiling the deal.
Controlling my voice I continued, “
two carrying-cases and fifty” .
“Cut it,” said the dealer absently, scratch-
ing his ear with a toothpick : “I know all
the items be heart —I sell ’em. Three pun’
ten!” Here he yawned. “H’m, well? The
lies’ I can offer is the half gold-boy. Knock
off the quids.” He tendered the coin as
evidence of his intention to do business.
When pa returned from helping the dealer
off the premises with his boot the machine
was at its best again, bawling “It’s Never
Too Late to Mend.”
Yes, it was a variable instrument, subject
to strange lapses. Its “real” ruby was con-
tinually becoming dull and being replaced
by another —eigliteenpence each, or twelve
shillings the dozen. Its mechanism was ner-
vous too. The slightest movement in its
vicinity would cause it to retrace its notes
and repeat itself indefinitely, as in “Jock’s
Joke.” This was, properly speaking, not
so much a joke as an uncracked nut, owing
to this defect in our machine. The record
brazenly shouted until it reached the in-
quiry :
An’ whaur was Jock? Na, na, ye rogue,
Ye ken that Jock’s
Here the mechanism would interfere -and
rob us of the cream of the item, reiterating
only, ‘’Ye ken that Jock's .— ! Ye ken that
Jock's — !" We listened attentively in the
hope of finding out where he was, but never
could. And one day “Jock’s Joke” was
knocked on to the floor and broken, so now
we will never know.
When the neighbors dropped in o’ nights
for a little music it would take pa most
o? the evening adjusting the jibograph. Its
tripod had to be delicately yet firmly placed
or it would allow the tin horn to suddenly
swing off, leaving the record whispering
mysteriously like a conspirator in an assas-
sination. The slightest movement amongst
the company, too, gave it the shivers,
unpleasant vibrations and quiverings. For
instance, if Caruso was lacking in tremolo,
it more than supplied the want. Then it
would stop for winding or to have its horn
blown, or some other little attention, and pa,
wrestling carefully with the swaying, clank-
ing tinware, conscious that the embarrassed
guests were getting restive, would cuss under
his breath. And generally, by that time,
the “ruby” in the speaker had owned up to
being merely glass, and the machine become
inaudible in consequence. Dad had to put
his head right into the horn to find out
what it was singing about; and by the
time he had found out the guests were look-
ing round for their hats and talking time-
tables, and our musicale was at an end.
We wished to sell the thing; but candid
relations affirmed fhat the man fool enough
to give hard cash for such a fraud as ours
did not exist. So latterly the children made
home a Hades with it. Wrangling over its
adjustment, arguing over its fifty records—•
not one of which has not palled upon us—
the storm of their complaints reached our
ears: “Mum, I can’t get my turn ! They’re
putting ‘Kookaburra’ on again!” “Kooka-
burra” is snatched off before the first jackass
can regain his wind. Then—“ Mum, they’re
putting comics on again!” Next—“ Take
that rotter off, somebody!” Another voice:
“No, you don’t! Not that coon dance—it’s
stale!” And then a voice wailing up the
hall: “Mum ! They’re putting ‘Love Burls’
on again ! They know it makes me sicfc!”
As the complainant cries, the nauseatingly
familiar twitter of these sentimental fowls
is cut short. A ruthless hand interrupts
their wooing. It is pa’s. He is laying
around with a strap. The children, our love
birds, fly to cover. Then pa’s foot catches
in the tripod, the horn immediately swing-
ing off fells him, and he and the tinware
lie upon the floor amid the shouts of the
contending forces.
That day marked an epoch. The awful
thing had to go. Looking down the adver-
tising columns I found that though many
wished to sell talking-machines none wished
to buy. But there my eye caught—
Wanted to exchange a Perfect Cooker, nearly new,
perfect order, eats no wood, for a phonograph.
Apply, etc., etc.
I applied swdftly by post. Then he came,
the being simple enough to take to his bosom
a phonograph, sawny enough to part with
a stove so well trained, so intelligent as to
cook for six on “a handful of chips.” Such
a stove has been my unattainable ideal
through a life poisoned by cookers that ate
half a ton of coal and then blew a half-
incinerated chop into the next parish.
At sight of him —old, honest, guilelessly
telling me of the stove’s one defect (“A wee
sma’ crack in tli’ top-plate. I’ll no deceive
ye, Ma’am, but no detriment to the worrkin’
o’ it!”) —I almost wept. My family pro-
tested at my brutality in taking down the
innocent, but that phonograph had to go.
Our buffoon being absent, I turned it on.
It behaved unexpectedly well —on carefully-
selected records. He favored “comics” as a
relief to life in the Backblocks, whither he
was “just awa’ ” to live with his son. And.
being a Jingoistic old Scot, he uncovered
respectfully at “My King, My Flag,” an
item hitherto reserved for
tious.
Soon after I interviewed the Perfect
Cooker in the presence of its owners in
their poor but honest kitchen. Again he
dilated on the “wee sma’ crack” in the
top-plate. There the defect was—open and
aboveboard —faintly discernible by the dim
light of kerosene. The Innocent’s wife
descended upon rheumatic joints to open
the oven doors, showing smooth, immacu-
late shelves and shining knobs. From a
cupboard she produced a sugary confection
which almost flew away from sheer lightness.
She said it was a shortbread, baked in the
cooker, and gave convincing statistics as to
method, time required for its production, etc.
“Aye, th’ stove’s a good yan, an’ I wadna
pairt wi’ it, but we canna tak it wi’ us, ye
ken.”
The exchange was made.
(Here comes in a long pause for pro-
fanity.)
(Here comes in a terrace of curses.)
(Here yoir can happen on pa’s unbiassed
opinion of the entire human race.)
(Here you meet with Beelzebub.)
Rather more than “a handful of chips”
was needed. When all the kindling was
used pa came out and chopped up the logs.
The oven remained calm and cool. We
made excuses for it, though a sickly feeling
of disillusionment gripped our vitals. Pa
fed it again—wood, and more wood, coal,
coke! A horrid smell of singeing was the
only result, and smoke enough for the burn-
ing of Moscow crept through the “wee sma’
crack” in the top-plate.
Then pa, who has no patience, bellowed,
and with a lighted torch went head-first into
the oven—and unexpectedly through its bed-
plate.
“Damme! Damme!” he yelled, backing
out. “No wonder the stove won’t heat! The
thing has no hot tom, and the back’s burnt
through!”
It was too true. The man whom I had
“taken in,” and who was even then en route
to the fastnesses of Gippsland, had, in the
dim recesses of the Perfect Cooker, covered
up with care and cunning, with paint and
cardboard, the wear and tear of a lifetime.
WEEROONA.


W estingho vse (Cross) Oil Engines
CROSS |
OIL CNCINE j
CD
EL
10-h.p. Oil Engine driving Air Comprmor at 650 r.p.m.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
K Z Office— 93-107 Featherston Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simole in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Rubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
DiNNEFQRD'S
Magnesia
kli
isim
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In eonsequenoa
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S’
on every bottle
and
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
A
The Universal Remedy for Acidity'of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
Thirsty?
Don’t be! All you need is a
wax-wrapped packet of this
delicious chewing sweet
WRKSLEYS
TM
It’s refreshing, soothing and
cooling. When you’re dry
and hot it hits the spot. It
helps appetite and digestion.
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
j. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Ask for free copy of “ WRIGLEY’S MOTHER GOOSE ”
Book.
BE SURE IT’S
WRIGLEY’S!
h
%
&
s§
VK?
*
ĥ
ħ
Made in Australia
for Australians
by Australians
[i
Chew it after every meal [
In these days of trial
Two good things there be-
*s^
juc
tft/
4m;
.^rr,
=>^sr
jMkts for thej&oches,
BEECH AM'S PILLS for ME
SPEED
To make tube screwing faster, easier
and more accurate, use
h
OSTER Bulldog Die Stocks
the tools with five big features: (1) Self-locking, adjustable
dies, (2) self-centreing guides, (8) no running back over
newly-cut screws, (4) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes. Write
for catalog.
THE OSIER MFG. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Australasian Representative
CHAS. J. WRIGHT, Box 2SI G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
Oster Screwing
Tackle, Dies
and Extra Parts
are carried in .
stock by
Ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing
Supply Houses.
ĥ
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it,
WE CATER FOR THE WANTS OF
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
M
No matter what your requirements
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-CARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
we can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, RUBRICATORS, METAR-
RIC TUBES & SHEETS of ARR
description". PETROR COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOORS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents -for the FAMOUS
SCHEBL.ER CARBURETTER.


Tlie All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
ħ
TOSH
whioh ia used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
h
A “BUFFALO”
For every Service
on the STATION, FARM
and elsewhere-
Ball-bearing' Drills
The high quality which has made “Buffalo” Machines
standard the world over is fully maintained in these low-
priced Drills—just the tool for the workshop.
Send for our Catalogue and select the Drill best suited for
your requirement. A big range from 35/-
ParKe & Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DICK’S BA LATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
a S p gff 1 !'U he »«■«*»•
X.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD/E & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
TRAPS
ĥ
HAS ‘REWINDING VALVE,"
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd..
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work «
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ħ
BOUNDERS
No. 20 Planer
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Ball Bearings to all
-o Spindles.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustments to Side
Heads.
Delivery from
Sydney Stock.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Warburton, Franki, Limited
Electrical and Mechanical Engineers,
309 Kent St., Sydney; 380 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Stocks
Dynamos
Motors
Wires & Cables
Accumulators
Blackman Fans
Semi-Diesel Engines
Electrical Goods of All Description.
en
s
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with one long' Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
is
All British
made, and the
most up-to-date
machine.
m
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
Sole Agents
for Australia—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. Limited,
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
" ■■ SYDNEY•
Agents In alt
the States.
The Standard Concentrator of Australia is the “CARD.”
Merit raised it to the First Position and Merits Keeps it there.
It has Held the Leading Place amongst Concentrators for 12 Years.
INVESTIGATE BEFORE YOU DECIDE.
MADE FOR EITHER SAND or SLIME.
RIGHT OR LEFT HAND.
Features—Adjustable Deck.
Channels, not Riffles.
Perfect Differential Motion.
Substantial Construction.
*■"» **• ;
Our New Model D obviates Spring: Breakages*
Concentrating Adjuncts—
GYRAL SCREEN.
CARD-BQSCO SIZER.
ELHORE and FLOOD SAMPLERS.
We invite your Inquiries for all
Mining Machinery and -'Cp-s//.
N.GUTH RIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building,
Established for 30'Years.
350 George Street, Sydney
