

The Geniaf
R. C 3-. WATKINS & GO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street:, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
Oi» all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST,
N SW MONT DE PIETE D SI C? UP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAOH STREET, SYDNEY 74,
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
one: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
eCream
'"Used in plenty
Hakes forty look
like twenty
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
r Made in Australia h/
Fuhcksiuiins‘C9
SYDNEY.
V
*
r Take it back.
,1 must have-
HUTTON’S
finc-Applc Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB'S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
Hilling
BmffflSnfffffia •«« MirasMfffN
I Nt-W SPIITx
MS
LBkJC
fi.fi
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HAN S E NS
J
unket
Fo. INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPS/A
One of these specialty prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals..
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
GOLF
BALLS
“THE SILVER KING”
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLF
BALLS
“That beats the old-style wall—that’s
The finest material made for ceilings
and walls. Strong as you could wish.
Easily and quickly put on. Stays
put. Never gives trouble. Looks
fine. Let’s send Booklets and Samples.
AMIWUD
Wall-Board.”
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
Challis House, Sydney. D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
z
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL. 8c FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8e MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1888.]
[Thursday, April 20, 1916
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GREAT BOOR SALE
HUNDREDS OF GENUINE BARGAINS.
HISTORY.
POETRY.
EDUCATIONAL.
BIOGRAPHY.
POLITICAL economy.
AGRICULTURE.
GENERAL AND TECHNICAL LITERATURE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
MANUFACTURES.
v Thousands of Titles in First-class Fiction to choose from.
«t -crtfffE. ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Property Owner’*
A Journal that is “Something Different.'"
No special advocate of Pat or Labor Principles, but a
champion of the Taxpayer and helpmate of the man
who wants to own a bit of Australia.
Cartoons (in color), illustrations, plans of homes,
instructive comment on how to secure the site an
build. ~
Published weekly. Price 3d. Address: Building
Ltd., 17 Grosvenor Street, Sydney; Gordon ana
Gotch, and all Sydney bookstalls.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
O
.
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H.,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SAIINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
War
A Real Sherlock Hoi. ies,
Geoffrey l*yke is probably the only Eng-
lishman who has succeed.-d in going from
England, during the war, To Ruhleben and
Back l G onstabie, per Dymock’s Library).
Ruhlehen is the great camp ten miles from
Berlin, where the hulk of the British
civilians are interned. Though conditions
there were, at first, awful, this camp cannot
be compared with the “Black Hole” of Wit-
tenburg, where the British were lefh with a
callousness of which Calcutta was innocent,
to perish wholesale of typhus, while the
gentle Hun jeered and insulted the piles of
coffins within the barbed-wire entanglements.
Of course Pyke did not mean to go to
Ruhleben: he undertook, for the London
Daily Chronicle, to penetrate Germany in
quest of information, with the off-chance of
returning. The mad scheme was his own.
The information he acquired was scanty,
because he had been in Berlin only a few
days when he was arrested and cast into
gaol. He was never tried. He merely dis-
appeared into solitary confinement, being
shifted from one prison to another, always in
solitary confinement. A few months more of
this and he would have gone mad. But at
last he was forwarded to Ruhleben, where,
despite the utter lack of accommodation and
the hardships of the life —he nearly died of
pneumonia—he at least had someone to talk
to. And something to talk about—escape.
J*
The number of plans that he worked out
—and had to abandon! As all the nearer
frontiers would be closely watched he con-
ceived the scheme of escaping by the Aus-
trian frontier, and thence into either Swit-
zerland, Italy or Roumania, a thousand
miles away. Every detail of this scheme
was worked out —Pyke would have made a
much more marvellous Sherlock Holmes
than Conan Doyle ever conceived. But he
discovered that new movements of the troops
closed that avenue. Then lie met Falk, Dis-
trict Commissioner for Nigeria, captured
while on a holiday in Germany. They
became friends, but it took a month before
either dared to mention to the other his
desire to escape. And even then each did it
in an indirect method. Secrets such as theirs
might be incautiously given away by even
their friends. For in Ruhleben there was
nothing else to do but talk. They noted that
the escapq from the camp would be, with
luck, fairly easy—but what to do then? The
Dutch. Swiss and Schleswig frontiers were
impossible; but there remained the Baltic
shore. For two months they worked on a
plan to get to the Baltic and thence to the
Danish island of Falster. They were going
to walk the 140 miles to the coast, and then
swim out to any small boat anchored off the
shore, and arrive at Gjedser next morning.
Then they learnt that the Germans, in fear
of a Russian invasion, had demolished all
the bathing piers on the shore. Obviously,
then, all boats would be pulled up on the
shore —and there would be sentries. Well,
they would have to take their boat with
them 1 It was a lovely scheme. They got a
third man to join. On reaching Berlin they
were to purchase canoes: they would be
three German students belonging to a
singer’s union. “The Lusitania Verein was
a good suggestion, and the hymn of hate
could have formed our main support.” He
found in a yachting paper an advertisement
for portable canoes; but it Pyke two
weeks to convince Falk —and then they could
not find that advertisement 1 “As time wore on
and plan after plan broke down, I became
more firmly convinced than ever that some-
thing utterly and hopelessly mad and im-
possible was necessary. For all things sane
and possible the Prussians had taken pre-
cautions. Ergo, nothing was left but the
mad and the impossible.” Pyke was con-
vinced that Sherlock Holmes would have
miserably failed in Prussia. Ars&ne Lupin
was more helpful. “Without following any
specific adventure of Arsine’s, I tried to
change my mentality into his.”
So he evolved the boiler scheme. He ex-
plains in detail how he meant to get the
boiler in Berlin; how he would have the
tubes cut out from the inside, leaving the
ends, of course: how they would get them-
selves sealed up in it and forwarded to a
well known firm in Copenhagen. But luckily
he found an ancient copy of the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica in camp, and there
learnt that “tlie better type of boiler has
copper tubes.” And the export of copper
from Germany is, of course, forbidden. Also,
the boiler would have cost £4OO. That
delightful plan was off.
The next discovery they made was that
the escape from the camp, hitherto regarded
as quite possible, was blocked. In addi-
tion to the sentries and the barbed-wire
fences, there was a caretaker with a dog
who perambulated outside the camp every
night. “I had studied the sentries, and
made an absolute science Of sentry-going. I
could look at my watch at any moment and
know the exact spot where every sentry
ought to be. J had taken averages. I had
drawn graphs. I could have taken an exam-
ination in the subject and have come out
with a first-class. But the little man with
the dog upset all this, for he had no definite
beat.” Well, then, they must escape by
day.
How they ultimately escaped Pyke does
not make very clear; purposely, since others
in the camp might want to follow them.
“The plan was supremely obvious, and it
still remains for any one of the denizens of
Rnbleben whom it stares in the face, and
who cares to take the risk It is a ‘dead
ce'rt.’. Part of the scheme depended, how-
ever, on two especial methods of crawling,
which he had evolved during the final two
months. In one of these, Pyke could get
over the ground at express speed—evidently
something like the “crawl” stroke in swim-
ming. It depended on lifting the knee at
a certain point of the movement. “I had
practised these openly in sight of the whole
camp, and had said they were part of a
system for the curing of a weak heart of a
Dr. Sorgersund, a Dane, whom I invented.”
They carried their boots in their mouths, for
they had to arrive in Berlin clean. They
found some unexpected barbed-wire fences,
the last of which Pyke, whose strength had
been sapped by his illness, just managed to
surmount.
They reached Berlin safely, went boldly
Into a swagger restaurant, prepared with an
obvious excuse for their dishevelled appear-
ance, had a good meal, purchased all the
necessaries for a walking tour, and took the
train to the south. Then through the forest
they set out on their 80-mile walk to the
Dutch frontier. Their hardships, the ill-
ness that nearly killed Pyke, the dangers
into which they walked—and escaped, their
starvation, and their amazing adventures on
the frontier make an Odyssey of culmiriative
excitement. And it all leads up to a climax
that is too astonishing to have been invented.
No dramatist could have imagined that
denouement.
In a recent Blackwood’s Magazine,
Falk tells the story of this escape from his
point of view. It is just as thrilling.
Wipers.
“Sapper,” author of Sergeant Michael
Cassidy, R.E., writes graphically and realis-
tically, with a pleasant touch of humor, of
The Lieutenant and Others (Hodder and
Stoughton, Is.). His lieutenant is a typi-
cal product ofi the England that was: a use-
less young chap with more money than he
knew what to do with, a man who had never
done one single thing of the very slightest
use to himself or anybody else. But he
enlists. His uniform does not immediately
transform him into a hero. He gets one
terrible day in the trenches under shell-fire.
“His eyes were fixed stupidly on a man
kneeling down behind a traverse, who was
muttering foolishly to himself. He saw his
his lips moving, he cursed him foolishly,
childishly, when, with a roar that seemed
to split his whole head open, a high-explo-
sive shell burst on the traverse itself. The
man who had been muttering fell forward,
was hurled forward, and his head stuck out
of the earth which had fallen on him. Gerald
laughed. It was deuced funny; he started
to howl with mirth, when suddenly the head
rolled towards him. But he could not
stop laughing.” Gerald survives that, and
a more gruesome experience. He and his
men were bombing some Huns out of a
trench into which they had penetrated. At
last a voice behind a traverse shouted out,
“We surrender.” But Gerald did not know
enough to tell the Huns to come to him.
Instead, he and two of his men went to them.
They shot his sergeant. The Hun smilingly
remarked, “We really thought you would
not be such fools as to be taken in.”
‘“Extraordinary, wasn’t it?’ laughed
Gerald. Yes, the ass period had quite
passed. His laugh caused the smiling German
to stop smiling. ‘Ah, well,’ said the German,
‘We shall no doubt meet after the war and
laugh over the episode. All is fair in love
and’ ”
Gerald told his men to bring three hand-
grenades.
“‘Gott in HimmelF screamed the one who
had spoken, ‘you would not murder us after
we have surrendered?’ ”
“Gerald pointed to the dead sergeant lying
huddled in the corner. ‘You had surrendered
before vou murdered him,* he remarked
quietly.”
These, and other experiences, did not make
a hero of Gerald, but on his return home
wounded, his parents noted that his views
on life had changed.
It is in Ypres, called by every Tommy
“Wipers,” that most of the scenes in this
collection of stories are set; and the author
gives some awful descriptions, evidently
from first-hand observation, of the agony
suffered by victims of “gassing.” “There is
not a man who has seen its effects who
would not give every worldly possession he
has to be able to slowly dribble the con-
tents of a cylinder of the foulest and most
diabolical invention yet conceived into a
trench full of the originators of this device.”
A Despatch-Rider.
Captain W. H. L. Watson’s Adventures
of a Despatch Rider (Blackwood, per
Dymock’s Library) has the authentic per-
sonal touch that gives color to the drab war-
fare of the present. His adventures were
not) remarkably dramatic; but his narrative
gives the reader a vivid insight into the work
of one body of men of whom we have hitherto
heard little—the motor-cyclists who carry
messages for the staff. And the author was
In the war from the very first. He took
part in the advance to Mons and the retreat,
the battles of the Marne and the Aisne, and
the two battles of Ypres. His book con-
sists of amplified letters that he wrote to
his mother, and were originally published in
Blackwood’s Magazine. Hence he has
dwelt at length upon personal matters. “It
may not interest von to know when I had a
pork-chop—though, as you now realise, on
active service a pork-chop is extremely im-
portant—but it interested my mother.”
Vividly he depicts the staggering retreat
from Mons: “Every moment the news
grew worse and. worse, while the wounded
poured past us in a continuous stream....
A quarter of an hour before the brigade on
our right front had gone into action on the
crest of the hill. Now they streamed back at
the trot, all telling the tale—how, before v they
could even unlimber, shells had come crash-
ing into them. The column was a lingering
tragedv. There were teams with only a
limber" and without a gun. And you must
see it to know what a twistedly pathetic
thing a gun team and limber without a gun
is .The faces of the men were awful. I
smiled at one or two, but they shook their
heads and turned away 1 pushed through
the traffic a little and came upon a captain
and a subaltern making their way desper-
ately back. I heard a scrap of what they
said.
“ ‘We must get back for it,’ said the cap-
tain.
“ ‘We shall never return,’ replied the subal-
tern gravely.
“ ‘lt doesn’t matter,’ said the captain.
“ ‘lt doesn’t matter,’ echoed the subaltern.
“But I do not think the gun could have
been saved.”
One staff-officer murmured grimly to an-
other: “Magersfontein, Dour, and this —
you’ve had some successful battles.”
“Very bitter I felt, and when, nearing
Saint Quentin, some French soldiers got in
my way, I cursed them in French, then in
German, and finally in good round English
oaths for cowards, and I know not what.
They looked very startled and recoiled into
the ditch. I must have looked alarming—
a gaunt, dirty, unshaven figure towering
above my motor-cycle, without hat, bespat-
tered with mud, and eyes bright and weary
for want of sleep. How I hated the French!
I hated them because, as I then thought,
they had deserted us at Mons and again at
Le Gateau; I hated them because they had
the privilege of seeing the British army in
confused retreat; I hated them because their
roads were very nearly as bad as the roads of
the Belgians. So, wet, miserable and angry,
I came into Saint Quentin just as the sun
was beginning to shine a little.”
Remember, this was. written in the great
retreat, and the conviction of the British that
the French had left them in the lurch had not
been proved to be false. According to other
historians, it was the British reluctance to
conform to Joffre’s orders to retire that
brought them into this pass.
Jt
A delightful sidelight into a despatch-
rider’s duties is contained in this casual
paragraph :• “I was sent on a couple of mes-
sages that afternoon: one to trace a tele-
phone wire to a deserted station with nothing
in it but a sack of excellent potatoes, another
to an officer whom I could not find. I
waited under a tree eating somebody else’s
nears until I was told he had gone mad and
was wandering aimlessly about.”
And how soon in active service the indi-
vidual becomes a mere machine. “After all,
quite the most important things out here are
a fine meal and a good bath. If you consider
the vast area of the war, the facts that we
have lost two guns or advanced five miles are
of very little importance. War, making one
realise the hopeless insignificance of the in-
dividual, creates in one such an immense re-
gard for self that, so long as one does well,
it matters little if four officers have been
killed or some wounded have had to be left
under an abandoned gun all night. I started
with an immense interest in tactics. This
has nearly all left me, and I remain a more
or less efficient despatch-carrying animal —a
part of a machine realising the hopeless,
enormous size of the machine.”
“In modern war the infantryman hasn’r
much of a chance. Strategy nowadays con-
sists in arranging for the mutual slaughter
of infantry by the opposing guns, each gen-
eral trusting that his guns will do the
greater slaughter. And half gunnery is luck.
The day before yesterday we had a little
afternoon shoot at where we thought the
German trenches might be. The Germans
unaccountably retreated, and yesterday when
we advanced we found the trenches crammed
full of dead.”
And the nervous strain of the modern
battle! “They had been fighting and fight-
ing and fighting until their nerves were no-
thing but a jangling torture When the
car came along the road all the men jumped
like startled animals and a few turned to
take cover. Why, if a child had met one of
these men she would have taken him by the
hand instinctively and told him not to be
frightened, and defended him against any-
thing that came. Yet it is said there are
still those at home who will not stir to help.
I do not see how this can possibly be true.
It could not be true.”
The author has a pleasant theory about the
custom of the Huns of chalking the legend,
“Hier sind geutige leute” (Here are kindly
people), on houses that they spare. “We
despatch-riders had a theory that the inhabi-
tants of these marked houses, far from being
spies, were those against whom the Germans
had some particular grievance. Imagine the
wretched family doing everything in its
power to avoid the effusive affection of the
Teuton, breaking all its own crockery, and
stealing all its own silver, defiling its beds
and tearing its clothing. For the man whose
goods have been spared by the German
becomes an outcast. He lives in a state
worse than death. He is hounded from his
property, and driven across France with a
character attached to him like a kettle to a
cat’s tail. Genuine spies, on the other hand
—so we thought-—were worse treated than
any and secretly recompensed. Such a man
became a hero.”
Australian
Tbe great variety of our forest flora
grows increasingly evident as J. H
brings oat the successive parts of his gS
work, The Forest Flora of N.B.W Porta 7
and 8 of the sixth volume contain
fuH botanical details of various tS
of which the waratah is the onk
one that so far has crept into 0 „ r
literature Our poets have hitherto had no
use for the blue box, 1 or even the fuzzy hoV
or the sally, or Maiden’s wattle, or tU
prickly ash, though the red carabeen would
sound well in a sonnet. Part 7 also contains
a valuable and informative article uDon “Th!
Sand-Drift Problem in N.5.W.,” dealing with
both the coastal and the interior trouble The
author concludes that the problem is one for
the forestry department and not for the
engineer, the means ready to hand to stay
the drifts being marram-grass, properly
planted: photographs show the best method
to use. J. H. Maiden asserts that native
vegetation is more suitable for plantation
upon the reclaimed ground than imported
trees. In part Ban interesting article treats
fully of the various “Enemies of Trees,” in-
cluding everything from fumes from furnaces
to “strangling figtrees,” and from native
animals to white ants.
J*
Queenie Halloran forwards the first num-
ber of the Pacific City Times. Doubtless
many readers are unaware of the exist-
ence of a Pacific City in Australia; but the
embryo city at Jervis Bay is beginning well
with its quarterly magazine. The venture
deserves encouragement, since some day
Pacific City might even posses a Lord Mayor.
Anyhow, the editor gives full value in her
verse for the threepence. She reproduces two
maps, one of that portion of Sydney between
South Head and the northern shores of
Botany Bay and the other of the scant Fed-
eral Territory enclosed between Cape St.
George on the south entrance to Jervis Bay
and St. George’s Basin, further south. The
maps display a remarkable similarity in the
configuration of these respective areas. If
one were superimposed upon the other the
Royal Naval Collge at Jervis Bay would be
situated at Rose Bay, and Pacific City, upon
State territory, would occupy practically the
relative position of the City of Sydney, while
a line approximately north and south, from
Macquarie-street to Mascot, would form the
boundary between State and Federal terri-
tory. Woollahra, Waverley, Bondi, Rand-
wick and Botany would thus be included in
the little strip of Federal territory; and the
proposed railway from Canberra—its sole
precarious connection with the mainland—
would come past Circular Quay along the
shore to Rose Bay.
. ' J*
It is a remarkable, and to most of ns, an
utterly unfamiliar, world to which Con
Drew introduces us in his story of J inker,
the Grafter's Mate (Shipping Newspapers.
Bond-street, Sydney, Is.). These stories of
the underworld of the spieler are most real-
istically told, the effect of their truth being
enforced by the author’s quiet acceptance of
the spieler’s own code of morals. Jinker’s
system of morality has no relation to that
of The Respectable Citizen: it is as remote
from our official morality as that of The
Business Man. And there is an unobtrusive
literary art in the stories themselves. J inker
would form an admirable and comprehensive
text-book for any youthful poor but dis-
honest spieler who wishes to make a success
in his profession.
J*
Col. Ahearne, Y.D., reprints, for the Aus-
tralian Red Cross Fund, a number of his
Letters to the Westminster Gazette
written when in charge of a Red Cross Unit
in Servia. The author writes chattily, and
the book is illustrated with interesting snap-
shots. Published by Gordon and Gotch.
The civilian’s sudden interest in the soldier
and his usual ignorance of the composition
and management of the army, should secure
a ready’ sale for The Way They Have in the
Army, by Thomas O’Toole (Lane; Is.). It
is of the British Army that the author
speaks; but the differences between the new
Kitchener armies and ours are inessential.
Thomas O’Toole tells us of the treatment
meted out to the new recruit, the duties of
the sentry, the difference between a corporal
and a colonel, and other matters as impor-
tant. He also, on his knees, pays his tribute
to the majesty and importance of the
regimental sergeant-major, and informs us
what the letters C.B. mean when attached to
Private Atkins. He gives us a dictionary of
Tommy’s private language, explains the
badges of rank worn by officers and men.
prints a color-plate for the identification of
the ribbons worn by the lucky recipients. of
medals, etc., and prints in musical notation
many of the bugle calls.


Jk
a
G 4256
No. G42sC.—Black Tagel Hat,
6/11.
No. Fso7.—Black Velvet
Hat, 10/6.
BELGIAN ART
IN EXILE.
comprising: magnificent repro-
ductions of modern Belgian Art.
Total proceeds devoted to Belgian
Red Cross and other Belgian
Charities. 6/-. Cloth Bound,
8/6. By Post, extra.
<
:
/'. 4 (> v
No. F469.—Black Velvet Hat,
Violet, Brown, or Navy lined under Black,
6/11.
WORLD’S Standard
DICTIONARY.
Published in America, i»rofusely
illustrated. A special Austral-
asian Supplement is presented
free with each copy, containing
words, phrases and usages
peculiar to Australia. Bound
limp Morocco. Price 5/-. By
Post, 5/6.
No. 449.—Felt Hat, trimmed
two Bands and Rosettes of Ribbon,
15/6.
Inexpensive Winter Millinery
ft U ANTHONY HORDERNS’
* FAMOUS LOW PRICES
No. 257.—81ack Velvet
Hat, 10/6.
No. 100.—Tagel Sailor,
Brown, Navy or Black, 5/11.
Our Winter Fashion Portfolio is an authoritative guide to the prevailing modes. Write
for a copy, posted free on request; it illustrates all that is new and smart, and places
the immense resources of our Fashion Departments at the command of everyone.
POSTAGE
EXTRA.
m w
44<3 /
4
M
•ft*
1552
>
4 357
...-
No. 4357.—White
Felt Hat, trimmed
Band of Ribbon and
Buckle, 12/9.
POSTAGE
EXTRA.
No. 446.—Pelt
Ha t, rolled Brim,
trimmed Ribbon and
Cabochon, assorted
Colors, 12/6.
No. 4358.—White
Pelt Hat, trimmed
Band of Black Ribbon
and Steel Buckle,
12/9.
No. 4351.—White
Beaver Hat, lined
Black Velvet, trimmed
Black Ribbon and
Buckle, 22/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices are for both town and country. To
country customers ordering through the post the same prices are charged as to
people buying over the counter, and the same goods are sent, for if it be true
that the country helps the town, it is also true that Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Loav Prices help the country.
No. 4. —Matron’s Pedal
Straw Hat, 4/6.
No. 452.—81ack Velvet Hat,
15/6.
No. G4223.—81ack Tagal
Hat, 4/11.
■0~ : %,
. •*
•a&ssca
:v
a
520
No. 520.—Felt Hat, trimmed Band and
bow of Ribbon, 8/11.
No. 288.—Chip Sailor Hat,
Black, White or Colors, 2/11.
No. 288.— Also in Black
Tagel Sailor, 4/11.
Royal Enfield Two=
Stroke Motor Cycle.
The 23 Royal Enfield two-stroke
Motor-Cycle embraces all those
features of high efficiency found
in the Royal Enfield Motor-
Cycles. It is an Ideal Mount for
Town or Country. Price
£65/10/-
No. 18. —S tit c h e cl
Hat, with Shirred Crown,
Colorings, 10/6.
Poplin
various
The SILENT WHITE
SEWING MACHINE
Good Looks, Durable Construc-
tion, with all the latest improve-
ments, guaranteeing: more and
better sewing and long years of
most satisfactory service, all go
to make the WHITE a household
treasure and the very best
machine you can buy. Write for
Illustrated Price Eist.
No. 512. —Felt Hat, full Bind
Velvet, trimmed Band and ends of
Black Ribbon Velvet, 13/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Repeating Rifles
In choosing a rifle for any purpose,
its reliability and accuracy should be
carefully considered. Winchester
rifles enjoy the highest reputation the
world over for reliability, accuracy,
strong shooting qualities and finish.
They are made in all desirable cal-
ibers from .22 to .50, and in eleven
different models. From these a
Winchester can be selected that
will meet any shooting requirement
THE GRAND PRIX, the highest honor, was awarded Win-
chester Guns and Ammunition at the Panama Exposition.
J.si: for the W Brand
P| R FECTION ITSELF]
yr
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR.
m
r
See also Page J/.
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running-:
3d per hour.
2 % B.H.P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device.
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible.
High Tension (waterproof) Rever-
sible Magneto Ignition, of the very
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze;
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Sole
Australasian Agents,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
IS
LOCAL'
PATRIOTISM
_ Your
Aim? e
Then have a«IHOT
at smoking
1
_L
x
ffit^^rdleZzai.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, -write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Th e - Croaker
Am GAS SYSTEM
CHEAPER THAN
Llecfricily, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
•TSSmt
&
7*
sy
>3S
> ,*»
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son uJ;
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd.,
Melbourne
TttROUGHOUT
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize IVSedals.
ss&m.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works i Birmingham, England.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
GUN, W. W. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
<sJt>oke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. W. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GUN
- —-FARMER’S FRIEND—I2-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English w 7 alnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY. 12/6
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO.,
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
TO THE PUBLIC and
THOSE ENLISTING.
\
You are doing the right thing by joining
the great European battalions fighting for
the peace of the world.
***********
You have the chance now to write your
name in the great history of m )dern times —
to win the V.C., the D. 5.0., to be
mentioned in Despatches.
***** ******
In war, as in peace, it is the athlete, the
strong, sound man that counts. Keep
yourself strong by taking with you
CLEMENTS TONIC
It is the Medicine that means Health.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL IT.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color —a feature which dis-.
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —every
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. f)d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
DeWITTS
Kidneys Bladder Pills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial . Best British made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
Bis. A. I ree Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
Saddles, etc.
modes £3mlQ to £3
Tyres ami accessories at half usual pricey
Write at once, using sufficient postage, fo»
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
BE ADVISED!
DON’T RUN
RISKS!!
How many fail to regard
Colds seriously. It is one
of the commonest troubles
and at the same time most disastrous —because
most neglected.
The Safest, Surest, Speediest and
Pleasantest method of getting rid of Coughs
and colds are
Wilson s “Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
A pastille dissolved in the mouth will pro-
duce immediate relief. Obtain a tin at
once from your Chemist.
The cost is only 1/-
ALEX. WILSON g CO., 17 Pitt St.,Sydney
Calverts
ilefSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
BONN
JNNINGTON
CARRAOIw
XL
PSS
IRISH M
IITj&JGhS. COLDS
CEOR6C SO
For Baby
Every child is prone to ailments of the chest
and lungs, COUGHS, COLDS, WHOOPING
COUGH, etc. The wise mother will at once
fly to “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss,’’ the safest and
most RELIABLE household remedy. The
SAFEST for baby is—
SSi BONNINGTON’S
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
hut aftei taking your treatment for 1)) days /
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel sp.’ings and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.
Lumbago
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Imbros.
O misty isle of Imbros,
Encircled by blue seas,
Arched over by an azure sky,
On thee a weary man might lie,
O gentle isle of Imbros,
A man might take his ease!
O misty isle of Imbros,
We look across the blue,
Sick men who have not ease nor rest
Turn wearily towards the West,
O sunset isle of Imbros,
We turn and look to you!
O misty isle of Imbros,
We know that we must stay ;
For us, for us is no release
Save only death, or wounds, or peace ;
O phantom isle of Imbros,
A thousand miles away!
ANZAC.
A. TANSON.
Success.
Success has eyes of honey glow,
She has a mouth like wine,
And oh! her little bare breasts shine
Like apples, white as snow.
Pauper or king, her choice is free,
Mistress of knave or sage,
She cuddles in with Youth or Age
And winks at Destiny.
QUEENSLAND.
ZORA CROSS.
Storm Song.
The gale is striding up the coast, the tide is
at the flood ;
Here, upon the edge of things, tarry for a
space;
Can you feel the ocean love surging in your
blood ?
Put your shoulder to the wind, meet it with
your face!
Can you hear the merry note ringing from
the surf
When the waves like battering rams drive
and drive beneath?
Can you feel a little thrill waking in the
turf?
The ocean’s at the gallop with the bit be-
tween its teeth!
Do you love the arms of wind strong about
your waist? ■
Rain that beats upon the brow, making mock
of tears?
Mists that linger on the mouth, salty to the
taste,
And the singing, and the singing, and the
singing in your ears?
’Tis the Open singing! Hear the magic in
the cry!
Let it echo in the soul! You will surely find
Beauty streaming downwards from the por-
tals of the sky !
Healing for your sorrow in the curi’ent of
the wind!
We are in the outer world far from petty
things!
Never tear need well again, never heart need
ache;
We will drain the cup of Life that the
moment bi-ings;
We will gather of the, strength spilling for
our sake.
If you love this love o’ mine, if you love the
sea,
If you have an open heart, one that undei 1 -
stai ds,
We will love our love together, you are one
with me ;
Turn your pretty face to mine, give me both
your hands!
MAORIT.AND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Copybooks.
When I was young, and innocent
Of what the paths of virtue meant,
My patient elders gave me hooks
And loops to make in copybooks;
And, having taught me ev’ry letter.
They tried to make my morals better.
They strove to teach ’twixt morn and night
Not only writing but the Right;
Turning my element’ry hooks
To moral-precept copybooks.
I did not know who made the things
That were my daily torturings;
But pictured them as ancients grave,
Whose whiskers pleaded for a shave.
My nature’s built in such a way
I like an aphorism gay ;
Yet, so abhorred each solemn phrase,
I’ve loathed those precepts all my days,
And learned to read them all awry—
Those trite old saws and proverbs dry !
Continuing my heedless way
I render thus one thing they say:
“Our lightsome sins with mirth regard,
For Virtue is its own rewai-d.”
And twist some others here and there.
As; “Wine’s a mocker (of all care) !”
Yet men I meet in street and mart
Who take the stale old saws to heart—
Who, ev’ry day, while I am singing
Betray their copybook upbringing—
I sometimes face their moral frown
(Perhaps, to borrow half a crown)
And often get, quite free of price.
Full five pounds’ worth of Sound Advice.
It irks me that the pious fools
Should throw at me their golden rules,
And when their outraged frowns I see
I say, “No copybooks for me!”
I do not blame the straight-laced men,
The victims of the evil pen
Of those who, posing as great seers,
Have plagued our youths and all our years;
But I would hang on their own hooks
The men who wrote the copybooks.
n.s.w.
HAMER.


RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/0.
Double, 22/0.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
' TT>T A
JL X XL
[PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP!
See also Page 2.
Marine, Stationary and
Portable Engines
Unequalled in
SIMPLICITY, DURABILITY
ACCESSIBILITY, and
RELIABILITY, ECONOMY.
NO Water Drip.
NO Cams, Valves or Gears to
get out of order and to repair.
NO skilled labor necessary.
Automatic Ignition.
Runs on Crude Oil, at less than
6d. per gallon.
Running Expenses less half
of those of Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy higher than that
of any other Crude Oil Engine on the
market.
Designed for continuous hard
service.
More than 50 “Skandia” now running
in Australia and the Islands.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES and PRICES
TO-DAY!
(State Service and Ilorse-power Needed.)
We Always
Stock these
Engines
From 4 to
600 HP.
Stationary
Type.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Sole Agents for Australasia & South Sea Islands,
11-17 Loftus Street, Sydney
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin tikes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CAR COMPANY
THe New 1916 Model, 4-24.
AMERICA’S FINEST PRODUCTION
AT A POPULAR PRICE.
PERFECT SPECIF/CA HON.
enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets.
en bine,
OILING
-Unit in
special
magneto.
MOtOß—Four cylinder; enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets. Cylinders—Cast
bore 3f, stroke 4|. FRAME —Channel, pressed steel. HORSE POWER —224 R.A.C
SYSTEM—Force feed and splash system, with sight feed on dash. POWER PLANT—
construction. COOLING SYSTEM —Thermo syphon. RADIATOR —Honeycomb-
-Pullman type. CARBURETION—SchebIer Model R. IGNITION—High-tension
TKANSMiSSION—SeIective sliding type, ball bearing, three speeds forward, one reverse.
CLUICH—Single steel plate drive, having two wire-woven asbestos discs, between which the
steel driving plate is located. Clutch completely housed and runs in oil, and requires no adjust-
ment. AXLES—Front, solid drop-forged 1-beam; rear full-floating. BRAKES —Internal and
external, lOin. WHEELS —Wood ; demountable rims. SPRINGS —Front, semi-elliptic ; rear,
STEERING—I7in. wheel, worm and sector irreversible, special Pullman
BODY—Beautiful stream-line; five passenger; standard color, putty grey, nick
ings. DOORS—“U” type; concealed hinges. FENDERS—SpeciaI Pullma
full cantilever.
make and design, buui —Beautiful stream-line; five passenger; standard color, putty grey, nickel
radiator, nickel fittings. DOORS—“U” type; concealed hinges. FENDERS—SpeciaI Pullman
type; crowned. DRlVE—Right-hand centre control, emergency brake lever forward of centre and
out of way. WHEEL BASE —114 inches. LIGHTING —Electric, 12 volt., storage battery, Apple
V- 0 ' headlights, dimming attachment for street and city use, and electric tail
STARTING —Electric self-starter, Apple Co., most reliable and efficient. WIND
SHIELD—CIear and ram vision, ventilating, exclusive Pullman t.ype, conforming to and built
integral with curved cowl dash. HOOD —One-man khaki hood, easy-folding, quick-acting side
hood; hood fastens rigidly to wind shield. HORN—Electric Klaxon.
SPEEDOMETER—Stewart trip and, season mileage. GASOLINE TANK —Carried in cowl •
capacity, 10 gallons. INSTRUMENT BOARD—Electric light switch; ignition switch, speed-
°v T - gasoline filler and sight-feed oiler and light on dash. REGULAR EQUIPMENT —Wind
shield, one-man top, quick-acting curtains, speedometer, electric horn, pump, jack, tvre repair
outfit and tools, tyre irons, and extra rim in the rear; weight, fully equipped, 19Rcwt. ; 4in.
tyres, Batavia. Genuine full-leather upholstery.
A Complete Car can be supplied in
Roadster (Single-seater) Models.
PULLMAN.—Sight-hand Drive
French Grey -Khaki Top.
A
i
-
m
h.
Tear off slip on this page and mail to any of the firms
rill receive “Pullman” literature.
named below, and by return
PULLMAN CARS.
Without any obligation to me please forward copy of Illustrated Pullman Car Booklet.
Name .
Address
Bulletin.
Melbourne:
FINLAY BROS.,
675 Elizabeth Street.
Brisbane:
J. G. O’RYAN & Co.,
128 William Street.
Sydney:
HUGHES BROS.,
196 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH &
SON, Cashel St.,
Christchurch.
Tasmania:
DUNCAN LOANE,
The Esjjlanade,
West Devonport.
Adelaide:
VIVIAN LEWIS Ltd.,
Gawler Place.
Perth:
LLOYDS LTD.,
888 Hay Street,
Perth.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
'/I
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO 13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 475 Collins Street,
, _ . ' MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.-No. IK 8.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1916.
Price 6d.
| ThE
| A r? t . •> r •«
JO"'
rv\AO
O* O'SSIPAtION
BILLY BLUEGUM COMES TO TOWN.


The Bulletin
Ille National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
[Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
[Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
•year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
i all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
; publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
ipart of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
iticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
iPolitical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short 'lales
■or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
■and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. xvill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — ]V. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
'T^e'^'aUd^/n.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1916.
“LOST MONEY.”
The N. S. Wales Petrol Commission, which
for a week or so has been drowning the roar
of the cables from France and Flanders, sits
under the shadow of a black phrase. Ever
since the first bimetallists of Asia Minor
began to hammer out their rude counters of
electrum, the words “lost money” have
sent a chill down the human spine. It is
only in America and other advanced places
that the term has taken on some hint of
joy through the knowledge that the lost-to-
ll obinson is the found-to-TiiOMiPSON, and
that somewhere in the big swindle of life the
gold that means motor-cars for Evangeline
and diamonds for Flossie can be gathered
from a secret balance-sheet which shows
“lost money” where plain piracy would look
too crude and inartistic. But N. S. Wales
does not want to lose money ; and the sus-
picion that there may be holes in the public
pocket through which some of the precious
stuff runs away has been gaining ground
lately to an unpleasant extent. That the
money thus suspected of slipping away is
cash borrowed at interest from Cohen, for
which the baby and the newly-planted peach
tree have been pawned, does not make the
financial landscape any more cheerful. It
may be only suspicion, and the present Royal
Commission may reveal nothing but lily-
white purity on the part of all the politicians
concerned ; but it might be wise as a general
precaution to compel every person holding
public office to undergo an annual examina-
tion, such as bankrupts are forced to endure,
just to see if there is any “lost money” about
him which any disreputable agent or broker
has forced into his pocket without his know-
ledge. Ministers are, of course, supposed to
be above suspicion; but, as things stand,
they might be well advised to take means
of publicly proving it. In the time of
Julius C.esar one term of office as Gov-
ernor of a distant province made a man a
millionaire; but the “lost money” in that
case came out of the pockets of the alien.
The person who had dared to rob Romans
ia the same fashion would have been taken
bv the heels and shaken till the coin fell out
of him on the tesselated pavement. The
modern Minister should submit to such a
shaking with the open smile of conscious
honesty.
But the trouble is that Australia’s pockets
are full of holes', and that, even if it can be
shown that no Ministerial hand is grabbing
the leakage from any one of them, the cash
is running away all the time. “Lost money”
us the legend written over our whole national
enterprise; and the demand for needle and
thread to patch up the ragged openings
grows more insistent every day. There is,
for instance, the money lost through our
habit of running to Cohen for loans to carry
out public works. By sanely living within
our means and taxing ourselves to do these
necessary things we might have been much
further forward than we are; and we should
have avoided those riotous times of boom
which are the natural accompaniment to the
spending of unearned cash. The “lost
money” through inflation of land values is
one of the most serious items on the folly
side of the Australian balance-sheet; and as
long as the loan policy continues the cash
of the public will continue to glide away
into the pockets of the exploiters who sell
the choice suburban allotment for 29i times
its reasonable use value. It is, of course,
plain to anyone with a shred of understand-
ing that money which has not been earned
by the sweat of the nation’s brow and which
is left to the future to repay is likely to be
used with a reckless disregard for real heeds ;
but even if it were expended with the nicest
economy, it would still have a tendency to
throw the whole financial scheme out of
focus in such a way as to give the unscru-
pulous person his opportunity for robbery.
In any case, the interest bill remains a
perpetual drain upon the public purse, and
Australia is the loser to the full extent of
the money that goes out of the country to
keep Cohen from putting in the bailiff.
Without one public robber in sight and with-
out a suspicion of crooked dealing in the
whole transaction, every foreign loan stands
for “lost money” ; and the public is no better
off while the orgies of borrowing continue
than if its pocket were systematically picked
by the most expert thief in the world.
Again, there is the “lost money” to be
debited to our failure to work our big estate
to the greatest advantage. Whether the
chief clerk of a big , company steadily
embezzles the cash or the directors so •con-
duct their affairs that a loss is shown on the
balance-sheet does not greatly matter to the
shareholders. The result is that the dividend
doesn’t come along. The money lost through
the attempt to carry on the whole business
of a State by means of a single narrow door
is clear enough to everybody except those
who have the power £o alter things. Every
mile that goods dragged on the railways
away from the natural deep-water ports
at which they should be shipped represents
lost money. The saving which could be
effected in haulage alone, not to speak of
time and damage in transit, through an
honest policy of decentralisation would repre-
sent a lot of good money in the pockets of
the people. But even this is a smaller matter
than the money lost through our continued
neglect to open up the enormous riches of
the tropic North. The Commonwealth is
pledged to link us up with the Northern
Territory by a direct railway, which on all
the evidence would tap natural wealth greater
than that of any other part of the continent;
but our statesmen persistently side-step and
evade that pledge and seem determined that,
come what may, the Australian people shall
not have the advantage which the opening
up of this great, rich region would give
them. The sole explanation is the utterly
discreditable one that no politician sees any
way of gaining an immediate and mere-
tricious advantage for his party by con-
structing the railway. The money lost
through this failure of Commonwealth Min-
isters to carry out their pledges in regard
to the Northern Territory already stands
at an enormous sum, and is every day
growing greater; and it is open to question
whether direct robbery of the Treasury by
those in office would really be a more serious
matter than the perpetration of this tremen-
dous swindle of neglect. The man who
accepts a salary in return for work he does
not do is as dishonest as the other kind of
robber who boldly plunges his fingers into
somebody else’s purse ; and one of the things
Federal Ministers are paid to do is the
construction of the direct railway from
Oodnadatta to Pine Creek.
* * * *
Another big hole in Australia’s pocket
through which “lost money” continually ebbs
away is that which the tariff-sinkers have
so resolutely refused to mend. Australia
has a form of mock Protection in force which
practically protects nothing, but which regu-
larly and systematically allows the wages
which should go to Billjim and his mates
to be paid to cheap niggers and others out-
side the Commonwealth. This accounts for
a lot of “lost money” which Biixjim can ill
afford to lose. The tariff on its present
basis is merely a particularly mean form
of taxation, the incidence of which falling in
equal measure on rich and poor amounts to
a poll-tax of the very kind Wat Tyler got
up in arms to protest against five centuries
or so ago. Yet the Wat Tyler of the Mel-
bourne or Sydney Trades Hall calmly
accepts it, and, instead of taking up an axe
and going out to ask the Prime Minister
what he' means by it, wastes his time on
side issues and keeps on striking about noth-
ing in particular, apparently unaware that
the big “lost money” in the case has been
running directly out of his own pocket. A
protective tariff should return no revenue
worth speaking of. If it returns revenue it
clearly doesn’t protect and does hit Biixjim
in two places. Biixjim may like being hit
in two places or even in 17; but the time
is coming pretty rapidly when he will find
a use for the “lost money” out of which his
futile political leaders have defrauded him.
The receiver of stolen goods is, in law,
regarded as a pretty bad thief; but the per-
son who, having the job of looking after
things, stands by and allows others to steal,
or sees huge and alarming losses and makes
no attempt to mend things, is possibly in
plain equity worse than either. Futility is
often a bad form of dishonesty, and there
is a lot of futility cavorting round the field
of Australian politics. It is this that must
account for much of our “lost money” and
that will continue to keep the loss going
unless we do something about it. We have
a right to demand honesty from our states-
men —that downright,' positive honesty
which will regard shirking and neglect as
theft —but first of all we have a right to
demand honesty of ourselves. It can be
taken as an axiom that the politicians of a
country in the mass will be no worse than
the electors of the country allow them to be.
The futility of the statesman is to a large
extent a reflection of the futility of the
people. Yet we do not specially pride our-
selves upon being fools; and only fools
would consent willingly to the large and
extensive curse of “lost money” by which
Australia is impoverished. Let us realise
that this lost money is good solid cash of
the sort the banks pay out and Moses
Kelly gives if we pick the right horse, and
then go for it with enthusiasm, even if we
have to use a meat-chopper to get the notion
that we want it into some fast-shut political
into some fast-shut political skull that we
want it.
ON IMPORTING THE QUICK AND
THE DEAD.
The Australian soldier has done something
that the world is taking notice of —and he
did it mainly because he was an Aus-
tralian and knew his homeland was worth
fighting for. The man he left behind —a
considerable number of him, at any rate —has
also been doing something to attract atten-
tion, and has done it mostly because he is
not an Australian. He is an import. The
strikes that have taken place in this country
during the last year or so have been a dis-
grace to Australian citizenship. Whether
they are equivalent to attacks upon the
nation’s liberty is not, in the circumstances,
a question for argument. Australia is at
war; and strikes in the industries of a
country which is fighting for life are never
defensible. Nowhere on earth are they less so
than in Australia, because in not one instance
since we entered the war has the strikers’
protest been against immediate oppres-
sion. In 90 per cent, of them the Go Slow
doctrine has been the governing influence.
Of the other 10 per cent, the cowardice of
politicians has been the principal cause.
And in nearly every case the imported article
has been prominent in the show. There was
a strike the other day at an engineering
works near Sydney. Inquiry was made and
it was found that in the erection room alone
there were only four Australians among the
200 men employed. At the naval workshops
at Garden Island and Cockatoo striking is
almost continual. At both places the immi-
grant engineer and fitter is of greatest
frequency. At Eveleigh (Sydney) industrial
uproar has prevailed for months, and inquiry
shows that the same condition as to the pre-
dominance of immigrant labor prevails there.
And so it does nearly all over the Common-
wealth where strikes are most frequent. At
the State coal mine at Wonthaggi (Vic.)
about a dozen dialects are spoken, and the
disturbances are too numerous to mention.
On the other hand, at the big Austral Otis
engineering works in Melbourne the employees
are nearly all Australians, and there has not
been a strike to disturb the hive since ’9B,
and that one lasted only two days. At the
Vic. Government workshops at Newport the
workmen are not nearly all Australians, and
what the newspapers call “unrest” breaks out
there almost every morning.
* * * *
When the British workman is imported to
Australia something is acquired with him.
He brings the ideas burned into his mind at
the British workshop—the notion that if he
works hard he is doing another man out of a
job ; the conviction that his boss is making
a lot of money out of him, and that the
right thing to do is to see he doesn’t make
any more; the feeling of social and political
inferiority generated in an environment
where class distinctions are sharp and
calamitous; a profound belief that the
State is his enemy. He arrives with
these ideas in a country where a
nation is being slowly built on virgin
soil, and in which only by work can the job
be accomplished; where industry has not
emerged from infancy; where class bar-
riers of older lands are unknown ; where the
conception of the State’s relationship to men
and women is as different from his own as
the climate he meets is from the one he left.
As a rule he takes into the Australian mine
and workshop the frame of mind in which he
went to toil alongside the Tyne or at Glasgow
or in the Midlands. The less he could do
there for a day’s pay the better he was
pleased. The more he can avoid doing here
for a long way more money the more agree-
able the change seems; and the more he gets
the greater the inducement to knock off for
a while and hold things up. If he is holding
up a State undertaking so much the better,
for is the State not the institution which
treated him and his father and grandfather
with indifference from the time they went to
work at 10 years of age? He thinks in terms
of the slum instead of the spaces of an empty
continent—of the conditions where millions
live from year to year in a degraded penury
instead of those to which he has transferred
himself. It is not surprising, this. It
would be astonishing were it otherwise. Most
people who know anything of modern indus-
trial Britain foresaw the peril to Australia
of drafting into Australian industry any large
number of adult immigrants with the tradi-
tions of another country behind them. The
peril rested not in the mere influx of popula-
tion, but in the obvious fact that our insane
education system and wood-and-water joeyism
had created a position in which immigration
to any considerable extent would result in the
un-Australian element absorbing the Austra-
lian, instead of being absorbed by it. That
to a very large degree is what has happened.
Instead of the young Australian being trained
to handicrafts and trades, he has been in
the main converted into a cart driver and a
tram conductor and a clerk, a bushman, a
fencer and a drover. Australia has been busy
turning out the wood-and-water specialist and
sending away for what the foreign artisan
makes, and getting into debt on the deal. In
between times she has gone in for paying the
artisan’s fare out and getting him to do a
little on the spot. But until he mends his
ways a large part of him will be a very bad
bargain, and Australia will get into debt ™
that deal as well as the other.
Many of these immigrants were perhans
deceived before they came. It is not unlikelv ’
that they were exhorted by commission
agents to go to Australia because it was
place where people could “do as they liked”'
where Governments were borrowing to give
everyone a job ; where wages were fixed bv
Arbitration Courts and other tribunals
Quite likely they were told that all that it
was necessary to do to get better wages was
not to work for the old wages, and that
though there were Labor-made laws against,
strikes, they were kept in the refrigerator bv
Labor-made politicians. In view of the
probability of all this, Tiie Bulletin sug-
gests the expediency of Australian Govern-
ments —as there are seven of them the
number seems sufficient —getting to work
with the serious intention of undeceiving the
immigrant, and for a start making him
understand that if he doesn’t work there will
not be any pay for him at the end of the
week. At present, on Government works in
every State, he is not doinfe a fair thing,
lie is loafing with deliberate intention, and
the men who do work there and in other
places are carrying him on their backs.
Everyone with any knowledge of what is
going on in these establishments knows that
this is so. This isn’t Australian, nor any-
thing like the kind of thing that is any use
to Australia. And, as a further inducement
to the un-Australian to recognise the obliga-
tions of his citizenship, these Governments
might consider the advisableness of handling
strikes in Australia in a manner less sugges-
tive of a flustered old maid confronted by a
mouse. In addition, they might consider
whether these strikes are in any way assisted
by maniacal borrowing and wasting and
bloating, and, if so, whether it would not
now be a decent thing for Australia to start
living by what she can earn instead of by
what she can cadge. They can be sure of
one thing, anyhow—that if Australia did
have to live on her earnings, the British or
other immigrant would be a long way a more
desirable worker than he is now, and on a
fairer way to become a good Australian citi-
zen. Meantime, and above all, let us think
about training the Australian kid to be the
backbone of Australian industry.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Futility of Noise.
Tiieke was a dash of good, solid sense in
certain observations made the other day by
James Bryce in the British House of
Lords. Bryce's point was that no good pur-
pose could be served by interrupting con-
sideration of more important matters at
this stage to formulate trade policies based
upon the nation’s hypothetical attitude
towards Germany after the war. He was
right, so far as Australia is concerned, at any
rate. In this country yelps of “never again”
and yowls about German trade are heard
much more frequently than plans for the
preservation and extension of Australian
trade. Yet it is Australian trade that
matters, and the way to dig foreign
industry .out is to dig local industry in. It
is no use Australia bellowing at banquets
that no more German frying pans are to
be acquired for the purpose of sizzling the
local sausage and then getting the imple-
ments somewhere else. The only rational
course is to cut the bellow and make the
frying-pan. That settles the German in one
act. If we go on gathering our ironmongery
ready-made on the wharves —well, then, it
is 100 to 1 on Bltjdfurst and Sauerface
getting into quick touch with good Aus-
tralian traders like Stynkfeesh and Co.
with a job-lot of frying-pan made in Sicily
or somewhere. A great economic light burst
on John Bull when the I Inn started leap-
ing about and showed him that behind the
Rhine there were workshops and factories
and laboratories which should have been
alongside the Thames. Ilis job now is to
put them alongside that stream, and heated
talk about the edifices at Cologne and Stutt-
gart is not going to help do anything except
lose time and get things tangled up in argu-
ment. In the same way, pro- Australian
action is a long way more important than
anti-German yells or any other sort of wind.
-
Patriotism at Sea.
In the almost-forgotten days of peace when
State Chief Justices and other travelling
potentates took passages on the white-manner
German liner because “everybody” was so
attentive,” the British shipowner used biacs
or brown or spotted labor to its utmo
capacity. This unpatriotic paper used <
remark at intervals that, whether the nigg
was a British subject or not, he wasn
white, and the policy of discouraging in
white seaman because he was a little m
expensive was a dividend-grabbing P° .
that ought to be suppressed. The nava ‘
to which this paper habitually alluded is
all around us, and the Navy is depending
on the white-manned trawler to s i
the sea for mines dropped by
polite German steward of some two J ,
back. The Fleet —swollen as it is to se
times its normal size—includes all sor s •
sizes of seamen ; but the cheap brinel
son in the fluttering shirt who was the SP *
care and prop of the black-ship I ca P r
before the war, isn’t visible m tj l ® ™ *
area. A few of his breed are • s
German submarines in the reduced s ,
of the black-manned lines; but tne fa-
mine-sweeping job is being attended
the English and Scotch fishermen, w
survive at sea because they were on. tne
dend track of the nigger-driving ship . t .
This evil sea-power, whose lack of P
ism helped to thin out the white Bntisii *
men when there were no torpedoes J
wasn’t converted by the shock ot t()
war he merely saw a fresh opportu .
loot the public by shoving up freign .
as they would go. If in a time a j on g
scarcity, a neutral out for spoil con o id
and offers him £150,000 for‘a - A ( j 1( -
ship that had originally cost him to ’i,„a’old
sells without hesitation. As in tn * et j
past, no considerations of nation-


trouble his mind. And that isn’t the only
aspect of it. 11. G. Wells, in a recent war
article, says: “The blockade of Britain by
the British shipowners is scarcely less effec-
tive than the blockade of Germany by
Britain. With an urgent need of every
ship for the national supplies, British ships
are at present carrying cheap American
automobiles to Australia.” So, in the last
instance, it is the foolish and improvident
Australian who offers these particularly poor
patriots a premium to use their vessels to
(1) endanger England, (2) enrich our
greedy Uncle Samuel, and (3) further
impoverish Australia. In the past we have
made Peers and Legislative Councillors of
these people. In the future we shall perhaps
he wiser and hang them.
Defaming Billjim as an Excuse for a
Cadge.
We have it on the authority of Macaulay
that the seventeenth-century soldiers of the
Parliament made good as citizens when the
fighting was over. Wherever, throughout
England, you found a cobbler who could put
a better sole than another on a pair of boots,
or a blacksmith of more than ordinary repute,
you could set it down with confidence that
the superior tradesman was a veteran from
the armies of Cromwell. Similarly the
soldiers who fought under Washington in
the American struggle for liberty returned
with enthusiasm to their civilian jobs ; and
if you want to go back still farther you can
dig out the facts that Socrates lost nothing
as a philosophic teacher through carrying a
spear in Thrace, and that Sophocles kept
his end up as a great dramatic poet even
though he had been appointed a general in
the war against Samos. Yet J. C. Wat-
son thinks it must be otherwise with Bill-
JIM when he comes home from the present
big controversy. In addressing the Sydney
Labor Council last week he referred to the
•100,000 who before the finish of things will
have represented Australia in the cannon
smoke, and declared that “their life as
soldiers would probably unsettle them for the
ordinary employments of civil life.” Why?
War didn’t unsettle Obadiaii Fraise-tiie-
Lord or lliram Backwoods or Sophocles ;
and is there any special reason for supposing
that the Australian will stand the strain
worse? According to Watson’s theory the
leal war casualties from a national point of
view amount to the whole number of men
enlisted, and once a man joins the colors he
is to be counted out as a citizen. Nothing
much more mischievous in the way of a
theory could well be .advanced. There
may be something in the idea that a pro-
fessional soldier, of the sort Britain kept in
her small regular army, after ten or a dozen
years of drill and barracks, without even
the relief of a scrap to break the monotony,
may become a back-number at his old handi-
craft and sink into a mere odd-job man ;
but nothing of this kind should apply to the
citizen-soldier enlisted for a single great
campaign. One thing that is tolerably evi-
dent is that if J. C. Watson’s opinion is
correct, there is something very wrong either
with civil life or with the military system
that unfits men for it; and the ex-Prime
Minister would be better employed in try-
mg to find what that something is and
endeavoring to put it right than in cadging
tor the supposed wants of a body of men
who will make their own real wants suffici-
ently well-known without going cap-in-hand
to anybody. A few insignificant farmlets in
the neighborhood of congested cities may
have some value as providing a shelter for
those permanently incapacitated; but the
bigger and wider fields of peaceful adven-
ture, whose exploitation means so much to
Australia, are more likely to attract the
strong and vigorous spirits who led the
fight at Anzac and may soon be leading it
somewhere else. To grub the stumps out
ot a five-acre suburban selection may have
some place in the scheme of things; but
it is infinitely more important to smash
down the barriers which have hitherto pre-
vented the Australian from getting to his
own big heritage.
Government by Plunder.
. »
Rimu,” with his hoof on the Eighth Com-
mandment :
A brilliant French historian of the Norman Con-
quest makes the shrewd observation that in the days
of Richard I. the one thing regarded as desirable
in Europe was to live as far away as possible from
your king. Aquitaine loved England and hated
lianee for no better reason than that London was
farther away than Paris. Yet three and a half cen-
turies later we find Henry VIII. governing as an
autocrat by the sheer goodwill of the people of his
own country. Through all his troubles with his
wives, his statesmen, his churchmen and his numer-
ous big Continental enemies, he floated more or
less serenely because he had the solid backing of the
people. Now, Richard I. and Henry VIII. were both
kings who governed by plunder ; but the great differ-
ence between them lay in the way they did it. Richard
was a lumbering brigand whose notion was to batter
his way through to a subject’s strongroom with an
axe; Henry had made government by plunder a fine
art, and the people appreciated his methods. Judg-
ing by results, they saw that they worked out as well
as anything else that was just then in sight. View-
ing things in the mass, most of the old administra-
tions of the world were in the strictest sense associa-
tion of plunderers. Where they plundered wisely and 1
efficiently and with a delicate touch and open coun-
tenance they were acclaimed as good governments;
when they rushed things in a dull, unimaginative
fashion with noisy words and contracted eyebrows
they were cursed as bad. Democracy, which was
supposed to give every man the right to be his own
oppressor, claimed to have eliminated the plunder
element from national concerns; but, probably
because the world is round or the earth travels
with a circular motion, extremes have a fashion of
meeting, and things which are supposed to be entirely
unlike in their shape and make are often proved
by experience to be cuts from the same loaf. At
any rate, the plunder element seems in one way
and another to have a firm grip on the biggest and
most advanced democracies in the world to-day; and
instead of running away and committing suicide at
the sight of a ballot-box, it uses the shelter of that
democratic machine as a good cover from which to
make its stand-and-deliver assaults.
In the multitude of counsels with regard to the
organisation of States there is darned little wisdom.
Utopias can be neatly constructed on paper in any
number; but when the whole theory of government
is sifted to the -bottom, one sort of rule appears in
practice to differ little from another. A good
despotism is better than a slipshod democracy, and
even mob-rule may be a most beneficial thing if the
right kind of mob is to the fore. Recognising this,
there is no special need to denounce government by
plunder any more than there would be to curse
government by prayer, which also has had a success-
ful trial once or twice. The system of plunder
which appears to be one of the regular working fea-
tures of the United States is not barren of results;
for the plunderers get ahead and do things—some-
times do them so thoroughly and efficiently that their
robbery is a scarcely appreciable tax in the light of
the magnificent results achieved. The same was true
of the methods of the Roman Empire; and the
vigorous and impartial robbery by capable governors
of Indian provinces forms a stirring chapter in Brit-
ish history. There is no really good reason why
Australia should not go in for government by plunder
if the Australian people like the thing; but the great
essential in connection with the matter is that it
shall be government by artistic and scientific plunder,
not the crude, raw, unsatisfactory animal which is
now bitterly suspected of putting its paw in the
public pocket to gather beer-money and tram-fares.
Let us face this thing fairly and put the whole
scheme on a proper working basis. Rightly or
wrongly, a great number of Australian politicians
and officials are now credited with a fine enthusiasm
for robbery; but enthusiasm without an intimate
knowledge of the game is useless. What we need is
a well-equipped College of Graft, with full profes-
sorial staff and the right to grant a special diploma,
at which all men aspiring to a part in public life
must be trained. The mode of instruction should be
thorough, beginning with elementary classes in pick-
ing pockets and snatching handbags, ranging up
through the intermediate arts of embezzlement,
forgery and burglary, and finally concluded and topped
off with a thorough and exhaustive training in all
those nameless branches of the science of Graft
proper. Who can doubt that with our public men
holding certificates from such an institution the
whole political scheme of things would be vastly im-
proved ? Then the wheels would run smoothly and
noiselessly, and the nation’s coach would go
forward with lurch and jolt practically eliminated.
The inexpert person who attempts public theft
always fails to recognise the first great rule of the
game; and this, on which the whole principle of
artistic and scientific graft hangs, should be written
large over the main door of the college—THE
ADVANCEMENT OF PUBLIC GOOD COVERS A
MULTITUDE OF PRIVATE PECULATIONS. Any
kind of government that does things may be a good
government; and big theft properly handled has at
least as much chance of helping the country forward
as six o’clock closing or Hughes’s visit to England.
But theft on the part of officials and office-holders
whose policies are as narrow as their appetites for
plunder are large ought to be made a plain hanging
matter.
•
Straight Furrows in Mud.
People’s thought is liable to get into a
tangle for lack of the comb of that whole-
some optimism which comes from decent
fellowship with the man in the street and
pub; and occasionally some such person
rears himself up and draws a comparison
between the ribald present and the holy past.
Recently President Packer, of the N.S.W.
Baptist Union, got this over his chin
In these bustling, strenuous times we were
tempted to think lightly of our more easy-going,
deliberate fathers —the men who ploughed straight
furrows and never compromised with evil. They
were men of God, and the voice of their conscience
was the voice of God. The vox populi to-day was
not the voice of God, but the voice of the almighty
dollar. Our fathers feared God, but nobody else.
They lived for their principles. Their religion was
their life.
Exactly what the Baptist President means
by their religion being their life he might
find it hard to explain ; bttt oile thing that
is tolerably certain is that those same
fathers didn’t worry much about letting their
religion obtrude itself into the practical
affairs of the day! It was always pretty much
a business of the prayer-meeting and the
Sunday sermon, and didn’t exactly create
ethical revolutions in the shop and market
and village. For instance, those straight-
furrow fathers sat back and allowed the
development of the factory system in Eng-
land, under which little children of six years
old were sold into an awful slavery that
reduced the physique and stamina of English
men and women in the manufacturing dis-
tricts for three generations. Their religion
didn’t get to grips with the housemaid’s
habit of emptying the household refuse from
the top bedroom windows into the public
street, nor teach the virtues of soap and
water and the need of ventilation. Through-
out the seventeenth century and some of the
eighteenth the straight-furrow went right
over any poor old woman who happened to
be accused by her idiotic neighbors of witch-
craft ; and the man whose conscience was
the voice of God in the corner grocer’s shop
mixed sand freely with his sugar and sold
his tea short-weight until some bustling,
strenuous people passed laws to send him and
his conscience to gaol for doing it. Those
easy-going, deliberate fathers who never
compromised with evil contrived to keep
alive the sectarian dog-fight in practically
every street in England and sang their
hymns and prayed their prayers with the
earnest hope that those who did not worship
in their own particular Bethel might sizzle
in Hell to all eternity for their neglect,
And if in a sort of way some of them did
drive their furrows straight, what was the
width of the furrow, and how far did it go?
To revile the present —and inferentially Aus-
tralia, where some of the present now resides
—by a glorification of the indecent past is
one of the cheap tricks of the religious orator;
but it isn’t an honest thing to do, and it
has the effect of making the whole religious
propaganda look foolish and inane. Does
Packer seriously wish to bring back the
past and to shape modern life on the lines
that would have been approved by his Bap-
tist fathers? Of course he doesn’t; but his
insincere suggestion that he does is one of
those things that tend to make the man in the
street describe the churches as back num-
bers. While they yoke themselves in thought
with all that was dull, cruel and unclean in
the great days gone, how can they expect
people to accept them at their own valuation
as guides into a sweeter and cleaner future?
♦
“Vim” considers the beam in our own eye:—
I'm tired of reading of Cairo find its pitfalls for
the Australian soldier. I was lately a private in the
9th Battalion ; was at Mena, and put in two months
at No. 1 Gen. Aus. Hospital and Zeitoun camp after
being returned from Anzac wounded, and I know the
Wassa and the Bullring as well as the next man.
Many of the places in the Wassa are, of course, bad
for venereal disease, though the Arab places in the
Bullring are worse. Yet, taking all things into con-
sideration, the number of our chaps who fell in was
not so great as could have been expected. The worst
places of all were the grogshops before we knew
what hells they were. A man might have only
one drink, yet wake up to find himself in the vilest
surroundings. After an anxious few days his worst
fears would be realised. But there are places in
Cairo where men can go with almost perfect safety.
All the venereal cases returned from Egypt did
not contract their disease in Cairo. I was six weeks
at Ennoggera camp and eight weeks at Broad-
meadows. Brisbane is not so bad, as some attempt
is made there to deal with' the evil. Melbourne,
Sydney and Hobart are rotten. Before the writer left
Australia in 1914 Little Lonsdale-street was worse
than the Wassa, taking into consideration the num-
ber of women in the two places.
On my troopship there were 1200 men. The first
week at sea the usual inspection took place, and 67
cases of venereal disease were discovered. One day
in June last I was at the A.M.C. tent at Zeitoffn
camp. There were 24 men there, venereal cases,
about to be sent to the hospital at Abbessia. All
these had just been landed in Egypt, were from one
ship, and were merely the cases not cured during the
voyage.
Yet the same old thing goes on. No attempt is
made to improve matters in our own midst. Plenty
of howls about the condition of things in Cairo; but
if the two places were averaged Australia might
show a higher rate of venereal disease.
♦
Vic. Education Department has furnished the
State War Council with details of a scheme
for appointing returned soldiers of no previ-
ous experience to minor positions on the
State-schools staff. The Bulletin has no
complaint to make about that. On the
contrary, the Department is to be congratu-
lated on its willingness to do something for
those who have done their bit to save this
country from Germa-n conquest. But this
paper insists that the Department’s first
consideration should be for its own qualified
men who have done their bit; and these are
not getting the consideration they deserve.
Take the case of a married master at a
country school, who has made his home in
the district. When the good patriot goes
away, leaving his wife and family unhand-
somely provided for, the Dept, should at least
be able to guarantee his reappointment to
the same school when he returns from the
war. He has probably bought the house he
lived in; anyhow, he has furnished the home
and should be spared the expense of moving
his belongings elsewhere. Yet the Dept,
denies him the promise of complete reinstate-
ment. He must enlist on the understanding
that he will again be a State-school teacher
if he comes back mentally and physically fit
from - his perilous adventure. A bank-clerk
or shop-assistant may have his job kept
open for him during his absence on the
nation’s business. The school-teaching sol-
dier is merely guaranteed a job—somewhere
or other. This seems an unsympathetic way
of dealing with what are probably the best-
educated and most conscientious class of
volunteer soldiers whom Australia, or any
other country, has ever seen. Peacock
shouldn’t hesitate a moment about putting
the matter straight.
Rider Haggard is preaching from The
Bulletin’s text that the Australian
farmer’s life won’t be really worth living
until he gets the sense to co-operate. At
present he feeds on husks while the mostly-
city middleman takes the grain; and it’s
his own fault entirely. He could save
hundreds of thousands a year by co-operating
to buy sacks, twine and fertiliser, and more
hundreds of thousands by co-operating to
sell his products. Instead, he buys a hand-
ful of stuff from a city agent, and, besides
paying excessively for it because the deal
Was small, he pays through the nose for
freight because the parcel is small. Yet,
instead of Setting his mind to the thing that
matters, he chases after the party politician ;
and when he does start a little co-operative
concern he mostly allows his greed to cut
the infant’s throat before it gets on its feet.
Rider Haggard would do this country a
huge service by ramming these truths down
cocky’s throat. Until somebody does it
cocky’s life will be a dull, drab thing.
«
From a man who has been trying it: —
It is no secret that if German New Guinea comes
under the British flag it will not be administered
from Australia, for the errors committed in Papua
are too palpable. The Papuan Government might
succeed if left to itself, but the Federal influence has
clouded the advantages of the island and tightened
the purse-strings of would-be investors. Time after
time the people have cried out against the injustice
that is strangling their pioneering efforts, and time
after time the Federal Government has given hopes ;
but the latter have never been fulfilled. Looming
large are the increasing difficulties with native labor,
and this is entirely due to the unwanted interfer-
ence and mawkish sentimentality of the Common
wealth Government. The pampering of the natives
has become a fine art. Things have come to such a
pass that to look sideways at one of them is almost
an offence, and the white employer has to know the
ordinances very well indeed to keep out of quod.
The days of the exploitation of the natives are gone,
and gone forever, and no one wants them back ; but
what employers would like is some guarantee that
unskilled labor will one day become skilled and use-
ful, and be to a reasonable degree under con-
trol. At present it isn’t. Punishment of unruly
indentured natives is strictly forbidden. As soon as
British administration took over the affairs of German
New Guinea the flogging of natives was sternly pro-
hibited, and the prohibition was justifiable, for the
Germans were brutal in the extreme. But the
result was not quite what was expected. In a very
short time the natives got out of hand, and the using
of the labor .was becoming impossible. Recently,
therefore, switching (but not flogging) was made
permissible under safe conditions, and at present
there are signs that the native labor of this
part is going to be of great value. Under
progressive government Papua would in the
near future astonish Australia; but things are at the
moment in the balance. We here believe we know
what is wanted. We no more want to harm or be
unjust to the natives than the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment does. We believe, in fact, that we know
better than it what is good for them. Why not,
then, let us proceed with less dictation —which is
the dictation, at best, of the mere uninformed visitor ?
“J.G.” : It is not only at the camps in Egypt
that there has been blundering and muddling.
At Broadmeadows (Vic.) on any day. and
especially on Sundays, you can see wholesale
waste. Literally, tons of good food is carted
off to feed pigs. The other Sunday I saw
hundredweights of prime meat, potatoes and
other good tucker cooking in the dixies, as
if thousands of men had to be fed, though
there was only a sprinkling of men in the
camp, nearly all the ordinary population
being away on week-end leave. Everybody
knew that such would be the case, but it
was apparently nobody’s business to make
an alteration in the usual programme. I
was assured that this state of things has
been going on ever since the camp was
established, so the bill must be enormous.
The pretty general idea is that you shouldn’t
mention these leakages, because in some-
mysterious way the knowledge might help
the enemy. Don’t these ostriches see that
it is not the knowledge but the waste that is
helping the enemy?
♦
“The Old Soldier's” orders-of-the-day:—
Nowhere on the Continent of Europe has the sale
of liquor any relation to military discipline. Each
country has a very thorough military organisation,
with plenty of barracks for all its soldiers and abund-
ance of trained officers and N.C.O's to encourage them
in their drill and look after their general welfare.
When a man is called up to take his place the cap-
tain of his company is waiting, with the proper
number of lieutenants and “under-officers” to take
charge of him, and there is also a battalion com-
mander and a colonel in command of the regiment.
In Australia there are none of these things. The
recruit is forwarded to a camp, where he is given a
suit of dungarees and a pair of blankets and shown a
tent. He is turned out to be drilled by a strange
N.C.O. who does not appear to have any particular
interest in him. He sees commissioned officers going
about, but none of them seem to have any particular
interest in him. He hears about an olympian person
called “the Camp Commandant,” but rarely sees him.
Is it surprising that the recruit soon learns that the
happiest place is the pub, and the most unhappy
moment of the day the pub’s closing-time?
4
“Harrison O.” makes one or two remarks:
The Peacock Government made a big reduction in
Victorian racing a few months ago, and has now
decreed that the meetings that remain shall be fur-
ther reduced by more than half. The only effects
likely are that the revenue of the railways will be
curtailed ; the patriotic funds, to which practicallv
all the clubs give their net profits, will suffer ; the
incomes of a number of jockeys, who are mostly
under the military standard as regards height or
weight, and of trainers who are mostly over the
standard as regards weight or age, will slump badly ;
a number of mostly-elderlv gatekeepers, ticket-sellers
and others will lose their jobs; and a number of
doubtful “sports,” spielers and professional punters,
whose activities up to now have been voluntarily
restricted to racecourses, will seek fresh mugs. The
idea that racecourse undesirables are going to rush to
the recruiting depot because there is only one meet-
ing to attend where formerly there were two is
ridiculous. There is but one way of catching this
type, and that is by conscription. The chief objec-
tion to these half-hearted, alleged “war measures” is
that they lull the public into the belief that Things
Are Being Done. The worthy suburban fool when he
reads that the “wet” canteen is abolished imagines
that we are several miles nearer Berlin or Tipperary,
or somewhere (he isn’t sure of the geography) ; also
he takes it for granted on learning that racing is to
be interfered with that such action will make the
Kaiser mad with rage. The unthinking burgher
reckons, in a vague, illogical way, that such “re-
forms” approximate to the sinking of six German
Dreadnoughts, and the sense of security thus brought
about makes him less clamorous for the big reforms
that really count, and of which practically all poli-
ticians when in office are shy. Conscription is not
the only big thing that this war has made necessary.
The State Governments have their chance as well as
Our Country!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Above us flowered a sunset sky,
The plains about were wide ;
Said Cartwright: “Health and strength
have I,
And much (thank God!) beside.”
His eyes were stern, and grave, and cold,
That once so flashed with fun ;
Brown hands had he, hands strong to hold
The things that he had won.
A rose-cloud on the far verge lay,
And roseliglit flushed the plains;
One hand upon his saddle lay,
And one was on his reins.
No lines upon his brow were writ,
His eyes rayed truth and force;
He stood, bush-bred and proud of it,
A horseman by his horse.
Said Cartwright : “Other men may sleep,
And other hearts grow cold,
But what I loVe I mean to keep,
And what I have I hold.”
He said : “Though God has set a task
To try our utmost powers,
What land in all His world. I ask,
Is like this land of ours?”
The roseliglit paled, and overhead
There gleamed a single star.
“She gave us meat, she gave us bread ;
She made us what we are.
“She gave us Freedom —broke the chains
That cramped our fathers’ feet;
That Freedom, spacious as our plains—
Is it not dear and sweet?
“By foemen faced, and peril stirred,
New fears are in our blood ;
lT 7 e know the meaning of that word
Too long not understood.”
He paused ; the night was still as death ;
And then two words he said :
“Our Country !” and I heard his breath
Come quick, like one who sped.
“Our Country !” in the darkness thus
He breathed; nought else did stir.
“Since she has done so much for us,
What shall we do for her?
“ ’Fore God, we would be less than men
. If she should come to harm.
I’m one —who’s next?” said Cartwright
then,
“To help her, heart and arm.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONES
Famous all the World Over as “the Instruments that NEVER Break Down !
POPULAR SERIES.
10-inch, 3 - <N.z., 36>
12-inch, 5 - <"•* ■ w
DOUBLE-SIDED.
m
CELEBRITY SERIES
from
10-inch, 5 - (n.z., 56>
12-inch, 7 6 <n.z., s->
DOUBLE-SIDED.
COLUMBIA RECORDS They Wear TWICE as Long as Any Others!
0
XV
- .x
Q/AMj
*
Diana (Blanche Sweet) discovers she has been
betraved. — "The Secret Orchard.
CIIAXXIXG POLLOCK put a whole bunch
of punches into his >tage version of •
& Egerton Castles “THE SF.CRbI
ORCHARD,” and the good people got o«~.
talking about the effects the play might <
upon this earth's weak mortals. Jes'-e •
I.asky, the big American Film Man,
chance for a picture boom, and so pictui s
this much-talked-of play. Pennsylvanian
sors got busy and banner! the film- t .
enteFtni an appeal to the Courts, and the • l »;
decided the film was too good to be , a ‘
>o “The Secret Orchard” lived, and is sho
all this week at the Waddington
arrangement with Australian Feature Film ■
the Federal. Peacock, for instance, would do some-
thing enormously useful if, instead of tinkering with
the licensing laws and racing calendar, he were to
introduce something in the nature of a Contagious
Diseases Act. The holy doubts of the wowser may
deter a weak Government at ordinary times, but at a
time like the present —when thousands of men from
all parts of the State are herded in camps, and then
allowed loose in a city or town miles from their
wives and best girls— there can be no doubt whatever
about the need for such a measure.
- ♦ ■
The War that Persists in Going On.
Yarns about tlie Turk being once more in a
bad way are again frequent; but as lie has
been in that condition for quite a long time,
and has been putting up a liighly-respectable
tight, the probability is that he can stand
feeling bad a lot more without having to go
to bed. Anyhow, those of him in the
vicinity of Baghdad appear 1 1 be getting three
meals a day : and as these are tlie gentlemen
witli whom John Bull is most concerned
just at the moment, stories about the other
chaps are of no more use than they were
in the black days of Gallipoli. Apparently
the truth is that the Anglo-Indian forces
which first tackled the job are having an
unhappy time, and the army of reinforcement
is finding itself impeded by floods and a crowd
of obstreperous Moslems. How the Turk is
feeling over against Erzeroum since the
Grand Duke gave him one in the eye still
remains doubtful, but as in that locality
the scenery is mostly standing up on end,
the Russian's problem of transport calls for
prolonged cogitation. On the whole, there-
fore. it doesn’t look as if the war .south of
the Danube is going to be finished before tlie
hot cross bun arrives: and there is strong
evidence in support <>f the theory that on the
Russian and French fronts the bun will he
also consumed in tlie trenches. Around "\ er-
dun the battle still rages off and on. The
mailed accounts of the earlier fighting
in that particular part of hell give no
corroboration to the allegations cabled to
Australia about the German attack being
carried out by untrained weeds. The assault
was tremendous, and the German entered
upon it with great resolution. Failure was
due not to any lack of military material
but to the stubborn character of the defence
and the scientific use of artillery. It was
not the culls of the German army that were
offered up to the sacrifice at Verdun. Many of
the most famous regiments were there, and
the circumstance has a point of special sig-
nificance in the resumed discussion about
getting every available Britisher into the
fray. What has been happening opposite
Verdun for a couple of months is a powerful
argument for hurry-up.
For the last few weeks Westralia lias
been without a Premier, acting or otherwise.
Jack Scaddan is so worried, particularly
about the Nevanas contract for the con-
struction of the Nor’-West meatworks, that
he has goue into retirement to prepare him-
self for the arduous duties of the Agent-
Gen.’s office, and Collier. Acting Premier,
has knocked himself info a hospital while
doing two men's work and trying to defend
his weak-kneed, muddle-headed chief. Mean-
time labor unionists have been roaring for
information about Nevanas, who was
secretly given a gilt-edged contract. On one
occasion Premier Jack darted up to the
goldfields and shouted out that it was all
good business and he would do the same
again if be got the chance. But Kalgoorlie
laborites were not satisfied, and demand to
know for whom the business was good.
There’s too much vulgar inquisitiveness these
days about Govt, contracts.
“Anzac Day” (April 25) is, of course,
going to be celebrated in a fashion inap-
propriate to the occasion. In the principal
cities there is to be another public
street collection, and more or less disordered
feeding and oratory, and in Sydney there is
also to lie a big splash by night in the way
of illuminations. The idea that the public
should on that day shut its teeth together,
recognise that it is at war and decide to lynch
politicians who refuse to act accordingly,
has been ruled out as irrelevant. Two weeks
later in Sydney there is to be another hunt
in the streets for cash, this time on behalf
of the hospitals, and if the public fails to
fish out of its pockets as much as was con-
tributed on Hospital Saturday last year the
Gevernme.nt is going to make up tlie balance
by discounting a p.n. It is a beautiful
arrangement this —a tremendous rush and
scurry after pence for public purposes, and
an ill-conceived project for permanently
fixing the Gallipoli adventure in the
mind of the Australian citizen by getting a
girl to shake a money-box under liis nose.
Frankly, how many Australian men and
women really want to send off rockets over
what happened at Gallipoli? How many
believe that the needs of our soldiers and
hospitals should be met by running after
total strangers on tlie footpaths for
tuppence?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS 1011 COMING WEEK.
lleb Majesty’s • “Mother Goose.”
CRITERION “On Trial.
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Palace \“Peg o’ My Heart”
Garden The Dandies
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
The White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Mirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING MEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty ’
Royal “The Boomerang
King’s . “The Squaw Man”
Princess’s “Dick M hittington and His Cat.”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own ,V Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium The Ideals.
Glaciarium Ice Skating
Athenaeum Hall Frederic \ illiers
“Peg o’ My Heart,” the sweetly-simple
domestic drama with a brogue which opened
at Sydney Palace on Saturday, is just the
sort of play every actor-dramatist should
write for his wife. All the stage “fat” is
heaped admiringly on Peg’s plate, and the
rest of the characters are artistically butch-
ered to make an Irish holiday. The con-
struction of the play is conventional, and it
creaks loudly in all its joints. The butchered
characters also suffer from creakiness ; but
as they are only set up to be knocked down
again, perhaps it doesn’t matter. When the
stage has been warmed to the right tempera-
ture, the audience witnesses the entry into a
sort of English waxwork family of a fright-
ened, speechless little Irish-American girl
with a dog cuddled in her arms. She is the
dowdy, unknown niece of the fearfully-proud
widow-lady who dwells there, in a state of
Arctic grandeur and exclusiveness, with a
hee-hawing son who puts* in the long days
burning cigarettes and managing bis monocle,
and a starched Dana Gibson daughter who is
on the verge of an elopement with a married
cad. Poor Peg lias been torn from her devoted
but harrd-worrking Irish father in New York
by the executors of her rich uncle’s will, the
rich uncle having decided on bis deathbed
that he will try to have the only child of a
dead sister who married beneath her con-
verted into a waxwork lady. too. He proposes
to accomplish this by sending her along for a
term to the waxwork family aforementioned,
and allowing £lOOO a year for wear and tear
on that English household’s refined feelings.
Till her dilatory lawyer arrives and explains,
poor, speechless Peg is .sent to wait in the
srevants’ quarters by the frosty Gibson
cousin: and she would probably have stayed
there if her snobbish relatives' bank hadn’t
burst that very morning by order of the
dramatist. Under the awful circumstances,
they shudderingly agree to try to remake the
little girl who has been thrust upon them,
and they start on the job by taking away her
dog, putting her into expensive clothes and
making life a sort of frosted Hell. But with
tlie clear, stern outlook on life of a parish
priest and the smart tongue of an experi-
“HAMLET,” AT SYDNEY A DELPHI.
Hamlet (Allan Wilkie) and Uncle Cosgrove
(King of Denmark).
enced Irish matron, Peg manages to give her
humorless English oppressors a pretty bad
time, until she saves Hie frigid daughter from
an early-morning elopement with the cad and
encourages the weak-voiced young man
into a proposal. Then the weak-
voiced young man turns out to be
the senior trustee in charge of Peg the
heiress, and the £lOOO a year being in danger
of extinction by marriage, the family bank
obligingly discovers that it isn't burst, after
all. so that the audience may go home and
not be haunted by visions of a proud but
hungry family gnawing the bones of the dear
but useless old butler.
Sara Allgood, the one first-class player of
the little co., Pegs away in a curly wig for
all she is worth —which is DO per cent, of the
show. She has a way wid her, a very melo-
dious voice, pages of smart speeches to use it
on, and a quick, staccato laugh of five notes
that is highly infectious. During a little
Irish song at the piano to the dull young man
whom she is Busy charming, she might be
Nell Stewart in “Old Drury” liarpsichording
to the visiting Charles. Gerald Henson, as,
the slow fiance, just manages to make himself
heard and seen. Doris Gilliam, as Mrs.
Chichester, the wooden dowager, is a. likely-
enough mother of the useless son Alaric, who
is carefully represented as the usual stage
Englishman by Cecil Brooking. Beatrice
Yaldwyn. the frosted daughter, has enough
English beauty for two leading ladies, and
looks her part thoroughly, even if she can’t
act it.
“PEG O’ MY HEART.” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Alaric Chit-luster (Cecil Brooking ) and Peg
(Sara Allgood).
The Bulletin sampled Allan Wilkie’s
“Hamlet” at Melbourne King's and found it
good. And when the ramparts of Elsinore
had been transferred to Sydney and George
Marlow had without ostentation established
the Royal Family of Denmark at the Adel-
phi, a further sample of the melancholy
young man whose father was poisoned in
the ear showed that the goods had not
deteriorated in transit. Most of the Hamlets
this paper has encountered have been so
busy giving a psychological study of them-
selves —brooding in slack-jointed misery
about the premises and the slings and
arrows of outrageous fortune —that they
appeared to have forgotten that, while they
may have had traditional cause for doubting
whether the Dane was mad or only wearing
a worried look, a possible explanation of the
prince could be discovered by first admitting
lie was a man. The result of the freakish
conception of Hamlet has almost invariably
been that no one who visited the theatre
without having read the play with great
attention beforehand got away with any-
thing more than a hazy notion of what it
was all about. The psychological specialist
turned living flesh and blood into something
almost as shadowy as the vision encountered
by Horatio. Wilkie turns this upside down.
Instead of portraying an incomprehensible
individual in an inky suit, Wilkie presents
a Hamlet who is vital: instead of a stagey,
attitudinising abstraction, a man with
breath and blood in him. lie has a fine,
round voice, too. though it lacks somewhat
in flexibility—isn't there an occasional hint
of parriteh in it?—and an agreeable pre-
sence. The supporting company ranges
from fair to medium and awful; and the
production is on a scale of magnificence
equal to anything vet attempted at Wagga
W agga. Miss Hunter-Watts is an endearing
circumstance as Ophelia. Miss Valentine
Sydney might make the Queen more wooden
if she tried. Walter Hunt passes with credit
as Laertes and the First Player, Edward
Landor makes Polonius as platitudinous as
the case demands, and Robert Faulkner
might be Horatio if he wasn’t so colorless.
John Cosgrove was the king, which means
that the name of his Majesty was Jack I.
On the whole, a really good show. The
only rotten things in the State of Denmark
were Rosencrantz and Guilderstern. “Twelfth
Night” on Saturday.
This year's “Mother Goose.” just arrived
at Sydney Majesty’s, rashly challenges com-
parison with the classic panto, of seven or
eight years ago. and the people who carry
such things in their minds say (as they
always do) that it isn’t nearly so good. But
the legs are the same shape, and if there
aren’t enough topical gags and allusions for
the immature young man who needs such aids
to conversation, he can buv really beautiful
photographs of the limbs. The “book” of this
season's fowl can be measured up by the
fact that Maud Fane, who plays printing
girl, is buried alive in it. She certainly
sings a few songs; but a comedienne of her
quality should have larger opportunities
thrust upon her. Lilian de Venny, piiiu-inal
boy, is as tall as a tower, but leaves n„ tO YT
Prints on the sands of njgtime. n ar ’'
Farrow as Mother (loose doesn’t pay more
than 15s. in the £, despite the heroic efforts
of the Goose (Albert Felino) which pro
duces the golden eggs like a walking Mount
Morgan, and is eloquent with eyes, wings
and web-feet. Victor Kelly is an agile come-
dian without breadth in a small-boy part'
dainty Maggie Dickinson might easily have
more dancing to do; and Gladys Moncrieff
gets a fair chance whilst carrying the official
pole of the panto fairy. A good deal of
featherweight property is dropped on the
audience during the show, which is helped
out by a crowd of clever children and some
original scenes.
A new leading man made a triumphant
first appearance in Sydney last Thursday
at the Little Theatre. Ilis name is lan
Maclaren. Playgoers may remember him
in two American plays recently produced in
Sydney; but in that sort of melodrama he
showed no signs of remarkable ability. The
same man, in Stanley Houghton’s “Ilindlc
Wakes,” proved himself an actor hitherto
wasted. Ilis characterisation of Nathaniel
•Jeffcote, the Lancashire mill-owner, and the
noblest wowser of them all, is work artisti-
cally and dramatically satisfying. The
double attraction of a new leading man of
his ability and a play that is the real thing
in dramatic realism and convincing construc-
tion should be sufficient to make a success
of the season.
* * * *
The play cuts deep. Young Alan Jeff-
cote. the son of a Lancashire mill-owner,
takes Fanny Hawthorne, a factory-girl, for
a week-end. Ilis father, discovering the
fact, orders the boy to marry the girl, even
though he is engaged to a rich wench, and the
breaking of that match would mean the ruin
of all liis father’s ambitions. The boy.
who went off with the girl “for a lark.”
refuses to “make an honest woman” of her.
even though the father assures him that h<-
will disinherit him. But when the nice wench
to whom he is engaged refuses, for conscien-
tious reasons, to marry him. the lad agrees
to take the factory hand. His mother pleads
for him. but Nathaniel Jeffcote is a stern
man —and they make that kind pretty hard
in Lancashire. He beats down all opposition
until Nancy has her say. She promptly re-
fuses to marry Alan —he's not at all the sort
of man she wants. But the boy asks in amaze-
ment why she went off with him if she
didn’t love him? She replies that she did it
for a lark, and she had had a real good time.
She was his “fancy”: well, he was her
“fancy.” So the tragedy is averted, and the
play ends “happily.” It is a blunt piece
of realism : and the author has constructed
his play with a wonderful craft. There is
not a superfluous line in it: the play moves
from one tense scene to another —and every
character in it is a realistic character study.
For a modern audience “II indie Wakes” is
a much more interesting play than “Ham-
let” —just as, in all probability. “Hamlet”
was a much more interesting play than
“Ilindle Wakes” would have proved for
Shakspeare’s first-night audience at the
Globe.
* » * *
lan Maelaren’s make-up is a model for all
wowsers : there is not a wowser in Australia
who could look the part so wonderfully. He
actually arouses in the audience the admira-
tion that is usually reserved for the matinee
hero. .T. Plumpton Wilson, as the kindly,
meek father of the wilful Fanny, affords a
quietly artistic contrast. Frederick Ward
repeats his fine performance as the weak sou.
and Herbert J. Bentley satisfactorily tills
the part of the nice girl’s father, though his
accent gets no nearer to Lancashire than
Manly. But the correctness of the accent
really does not matter. The English speak
so many varieties of English that Austra-
lians. who speak only one, cannot be
expected to differentiate the innumerable
dialects of that country. All that we need
is an indication that they can’t speak correct
English. Pinero easily does it by making
his “upper class” drop their "g's,” and his
“lower class” their “h’s.” Tempo Figgott,
as the managing mother of Fanny, is satis-
factory, but makes the mistake of being
humorous instead of bitter. Eily Malyoii.
though physically hardly the factory-girl,
triumphs over that detail by her telling
characterisation. The only failure in the
cast is Esther Mitchell as the nice but
“goody” girl to whom the boy was engaged.
There is no life in her.
£ * ❖ *
It was a bright idea that occurred to the
unmentioned author of “On Trial,” success-
fully produced at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday: as so many well-known dramas
had been successful when filmed, whj
shouldn't he reverse the process and adapt
to the stage the special features that have


pvi
f / \\\W
H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland's best production-an absolutely Ideal tonic.
Awarded many gold medals tor purity.
JOKES, TRICKS, PUZZLES, NOVELTIES.
Write for our New
Novelty Catalog.
SENT FREE.
DEVIL'S PUZZLE MATCH BOX.
V/
SOV)°
DO
The Match Box which is different from all other puzzle-
boxes. You’ll never open it until you read the directions.
Made of Xickel-plate, beautifully finished. Without doubt
the most ingenious Puzzle Match Box that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instructions, %/-
SOMETHING SPECIAL.
Winter is coming, and you’ll want something to help to pass
the dreary nights away. We are offering a special box of
Jokes and Puzzles, suitable for young and old, which will
cause no end of fun and amusement. The box contains the
following:—
1 Box of Match Puzzles,
3 Different Wire Puzzles,
1 Fortune-telling Fish,
1 Five Wood Squares
Puzzle,
1 Changing Card Trick,
1 Joker’s Lighted Cigar-
ette,
1 Joker’s Box of Matches,
1 Dark Question Joke.
The Box of Jokes Sent Post Free for 2/6.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Ltd.,
New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 George St., Havmarket, Sydney
The Every-day Felt Hat.
4
A' distinctive shape and a
good, useful quality. A season-
able hat, suitable for these
days-when one is apt to be
caught out in showers.
Smooth-finished Felt, with
21-inch unbound brims. Bow
at side or back. Light Grey
or Light and Dark Slate, with
Black or Self-toned Bands.
An excellent hat for 12/0.
We Pay Postage. Special box
for packing, to ensure delivery
uncrushed, 9d. extra.
CLOSING AT fi p.m. TIIURS-
DA Y ; OPE N EAS T E U
SATURDAY TILL 1 p.m.
PEAPES (Si CO. LTD.,
xen’s Outfitters 309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
made the movies a success? He did not
take any well-known film play, but knitted
a drama on the film pattern, lie opens with
the call for silence in a court. The district '
attorney and the defendant’s counsel make
their addresses, and, though the defendant
protests against the farce of being tried for
a murder that he has admitted, the shooting
of a well-known business man, evidence is
proceeded with. This is where the play
steals the methods of the film. As the wit-
ness is beginning her story the scene fades
out, the curtain falls, and in a few moments
ii; rises again to show the principals acting
out the scene that she was about to describe.
This method is employed on two other occa-
sions. The chronological sequence of the
scenes runs backwards, the final scene taking
place 13 years before the first. Thus point
after point that crops up in the evidence is
explained in turn, the dramatist by this
method keeping up the tension of the audi-
ence while he unravels the mystery back-
wards. The changes of scene are managed
with remarkable celerity; but, after all, they
cannot compete in this regard with the film.
Then the jury is seen conferring; and though
many of the audience feared an anti-climax
when the court-room is shown again for the
delivery of the verdict, the American drama-
tist cleverly provides an original "curtain.”
The case is re-opened, and new evidence puts
a different complexion on the affair. The
original scheme of the play, with its tense
atmosphere preserved throughout, will inter-
est Australian audiences almost as much as
“Seven Keys to Baldpate,” though “On
Trial” cannot compare with that theatric
masterpiece of construction. But few per-
sons would care to see the thing once the
mystery has been solved.
The new leading lady, Dorothy Seacombe,
is the finest actress in her line seen in Aus-
tralia for many years. A child of 10 or
thereabouts, she has had given to her two
scenes. In one she has merely to be the
conventional stage child ; in the other she has
to portray emotion of the most harrowing
description. In both she easily held Ihe
audience, with a power rare at her age. The
other leading lady. Madge Fabian, has no
outstanding individuality; but her work
throughout is distinguished by sweet reason-
ableness and an ease that masks a sure com-
mand of technique. Frank Harvey has a
wide range of emotions to express, and his
work is, as usual, convincing. Sidney Stir-
ling. the murdered man, strolls through his
part without making any difference between
the two seifs that he presents —with an
interval of 13 years between them. In the
scene where he has trapped an innocent girl
into a false marriage with him. lie spoils the
playwright’s intention by his elaborate bore-
dom, raising a doubt in the audience’s mind
whether he had actually seduced the girl.
Gerald llarcourt, in a colorless part with
one big moment, manages, by his earlier
repression, to make that moment tell. Frank
Willoughby, another importation, with a fine
presence, has little to do but make speeches
to the jury. Any Sydney barrister could do
it almost as well. Lewis Willoughby has a
little more color in his part of the defendant’s
counsel. The rest of the long cast is satis-
factory.
Sydney Tivoli has put a head on its
Easter pot. All the noticeable artists who
were there last week remain; and practi-
cally another programme has been poured
on top of them. Away up amongst the
sparkling froth are Menetti and Sedelli, one
of whom wears the red wig that denotes
comedy. Their chief job is to build a tower
of tables and escape when it collapses with-
out breaking their necks. The Three
Kundles (wire-walkers) show young Billjim
what may be accomplished with practice on
the dear old wire-fences of home; Jack
Bornhold is a trifle long-winded whilst in
the company of the biograph machine; John
Cardo, a top-noting tenor, and his partner
Agnes Noll are cheerful in song ; and Gard-
ner and Reeve are moderately successful
with mimicry and rot.
The curriculum at the university where
seals take their degrees demands a special
course in which the student is expected to
attain proficiency in catching a ball on the
end of his nose; and as there are many
human M.A.’s and B.A.’s who fail when put
to this test, they have lately been attending
Wirths’ Sydney Hippodrome to complete
their education. The seals there never make
a mistake, and are now learning how to
write the Australian language with their
tails. Nor has May Wirth been detected
making any mistakes in her somersaults, nor
the Japs been found guilty of failing to do
all the press-agent promises. Matinees are
going to be frequent, including one on a big
scale on Anzac Day.
The picture shows in Sydney are booming,
*and the programmes this week have been
unusually attractive. The Triangle play at
the Lyceum, “Beggy,” gives the popular
Billie Burke a chance in Scotch comedy-
drama. The “Picture block” theatres con-
tinue to drag good sugar to the old address,
the chief haulage being to the Crystal, where
Glory Quayle is communicating to brother
John Storm the thrill of his life five times a
day. “The Birth of a Nation” has been the
magnet at the Royal, and it ought to finish
as strongly on Saturday as it started. Marie
Tempest is also starring on the screen at
the Williamson photo, theatre. Altogether
the local cinemagluttou can bog in and look
happy.
“Dick Whittington” at the Princess’s
(Molb.) claims to be a three-hour riot of
“DICK WHITTING-
TON AND HIS
CAT,” AT MELB.
PRINCESS’S.
Eddie McLean, the
whirlwind dancer.
mirth and song, and
is living up to the
advt. Several dozen
girls join in song
and tumult with-
out offering a
shadow of apology
for their intrusion
in most cases. They
just happen and go
off again. It is
always understood
that anything may
happen in a panto.
Even a suggestion
of plot. There cer-
tainly are moments
in “Dick” when
Carrie Moore might
as well be Sinbad
the Sailor or the
B y that took the
W rong Turning,
but sometimes she
can be identified by
a passing allusion
to the Cat. Then
the fact that she
will be thrice Gaud
Mayor of London is
brought home to
one’s bewildered
mind, and the
chorus bursts out
into more melody.
The panto. pro-
mises to ride the
crested wave of
popularity during
Easter week and until further notice.
“Twin Beds” continues to cater for curio-
sity at Melbourne Royal. It doesn’t supply
the demand for all the impropriety which
is expected of it, but the audiences that go
away suffering from blasted hopes show a
somewhat forgiving spirit as a rule. The
bedroom farce finishes on Thursday. “The
Boomerang” hits the bill on Saturday.
“So Long. Betty” comes to Melbourne and
Her Majesty’s on Saturday. Meanwhile the
Comic Opera Co. is putting in a final week
of one-night revivals, “Gipsy Love” closing
the season on Thursday.
Frederic Villiers, the artist who has been
attending wars for 40 years, on and off, will
give his first Melbourne lecture concerning
this war at the Athenaeum Hall next Satur-
day. Villiers has brought material for two
lectures. The first is “With Joffre and
French.” and both of them are illustrated
with films given to the lecturer by the
French Government and with sketches which
he made on the sanguinary spots he talks
about.
The fresh people at the Tivoli in Mel-
bourne this week are Jacques 801, the unex-
citing tenor of the Belgian Concert Barty,
and some re-arrivals —-Pearl Ladd. Villiers
Arnold, and Vaude and Verne. The two
costume and millinery ladies continue as
before ; so do Mildred Grover and the Follies.
But Easter week will be the last of the
Follies. Their dash is done and their nights
are numbered.
At Melbourne Auditorium a band of light
entertainers, described as The Ideals of
1016, began a season last Saturday. Their
motto is “Merry and Mixed,” and the chief
conspirator is Jack Waller. Four other
members of the disbanded Butterflies Co. are
Ideals of 1916; also Sydney Hollister,
Floekton Foster and Gregory Ivanoff, a
violinist who counts for much in this connec-
tion. The programme ends with a sketch,
of course, the final item for the present being
“The Music Hall,” which is an old sort of
burlesque played with a good deal of new
humor.
With the object of providing comforts for
sundry sailormen engaged on J. Bull’s work
in the North Sea, the Ancient Mariners made
a one-night appearance at Melbourne
Athenaeum last week. The proceedings
generally wore a nautical complexion, sev-
eral ancient salts warbling sea songs and
chanteys or groping strenuously in the cav-
erns of memory for yarns descriptive of life
afloat. One hoary seaman unloaded a heavy
cargo of odd stories and employed lantern
views to corroborate his remarkable asser-
tions. Another historian got adrift in the
Dardanelles and nearly lost his ticket for
careless navigation. Several others contri-
buted items as Fancy took them —and Fancy
often dragged them by the scruff of llie
neck into the fo’c’s’le of bygone days. Taken
altogether, the entertainment was quaint and
hearty, and when the crew was dismissed
at about live bells, the skipper, Cr. Frank
Davies, was able to announce an acceptable
quantity of coin in the hold.
Madge Maitland, the latest Amurkan
importation at Melbourne Bijou, is another
incisive comedienne of the type that believes
in giving a lavish exhibition of her dress-
maker’s genius. Marr and Evans, also from
the U.S., throw themselves about in an acro-
batic act, and Hick Watson specialises in
the banal pleasantries of the Yankee buster
kid. All this week the audience will also
b ‘ confronted with the Three Saxons, a fresh
trio of songandancers; Bollinger and Rey-
noldsp the slack-wire enthusiasts; and Ella
Airlift,- the smart and pungent pianologist.
Ella; whom The Bulletin regards with
rdpect, is a whole bookful of hints to toiling
amateurs in her charming art.
East week Hoyt’s (Melbourne) gossiped
at great length about Jane Shore, the lady
whose dalliance with Edward IY. is a classic
in the history of naughty love. Hoyt’s pic-
ture, hotvever, deals very modestly with
Jane’s indecorum, the intention being evi-
dently to star the hussy )ts a victim of the
unrighteous superstition prevailing in her
time. Anyhow. Jane’s alleged witchcraft is
mentioned with emphasis, and for her pun-
ishment she is sentenced to wander through
hundreds of yards of film, wearing the look
of a suffering martyr and holding a peni-
tential taper in her hand. This week Hoyt’s
are showering their superlatives on two new
Amurkan motion plays, “The House of
’Pears” and “The Flash of an Emerald.” In
the first named the Yankee actress, Emily
Stevens, gets the most space; in the other
the popular mummer. Robert Warwick,
appears for the first time as a devil of a
fellow.
At Melbourne King's the brown-grey
gentleman from Mars will visit Horace
Barker in his dreams for only three more
nights. “Marsy,” as George Bryant plays
him. is a bloke with more of earthly passion
in his nature than the cold, machine-made
Messengers of yore:
lie seems more,
anxious to work
ont his own re-
demption through
the regeneration of
Horace. Bryant
differs, too, from
his predecessors in
his manner of call-
s' g to see Horace.
He has n’t the
wings of a bat, but
lie just arrives like
a Mephistopheles
and goes away in a
pla i n, ordinary
hurry, instead of
being conveyed to
and fro by wire.
Heaven only knows
why he concen-
trates the whole of
the message f rom
< ttherdom on Bar-
ker. He might
well devote a few
words to Mrs.
Clarence, the piti-
less cat who gives a
party to the well
fed. but slams her
front door in tin'
face of a hungry
old acquaintance.
On Easter Satur-
day they will revive
“The Squaw Man”
at the King’s, with
“A MESSAGE
FROM WARS,”
AT MELB.
KING’S.
Ned Duggan as the
tramp.
Bryant and Florrie Gleeson in their original
parts.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, following its
usual policy of starting the season with
something popular, began this year with
Arnold Bennett’s “Great Adventure,” which
Henry Ainley found good enough for a
year’s run in London. It has the usual
defects of a drama made from a novel, being
in (practically) seven acts, with fresh
people introduced in each and then promptly
dropped. Moreover, at one point the action
is stopped to harvest a crop of Sliaw-like
epigrams. Still, it is a pleasant farce of
the quiet sort. Though over-deliberation
threatens to grow upon him Wilfrid Neill
was well suited in the long part of the shy
genius. Ivy Stacey gave an original and
capable rendering of the businesslike
heroine ; while Wadmore, Whittle, Ethelwyn
Robin and Muriel Craigie (in a part clean
outside her usual range) were brilliant in
smaller parts. It seemed strange to see a
Rep. performance without a Walsh in it ;
but Ray was content with “producing,” and
Douglas is away performing on a larger,
smokier stage.
The Gerald Griffin season of Irish plays
did not last long at Adelaide Tivoli, and
Brandon Cromer is coming in with melo-
drama. This is the co. which had a trial
season at that house last winter and stayed
on for months by order of General Desire.
The same warrior—of the Irish Brigade—
had the old wake scene cut out of “The
Shaughraun” when Griffin played it. At
the King’s, Edenbury, the balancer who can
box, is the brightest thing in sight. Tue
very popular Leonard Nelson is coming into
this bill. The Ideals have gone (the clever
Malini is staying on to do a short season at
the Queen’s Hall) ; and the Dandies now
have the open-air field to themselves. But
the nights are getting too wintry. Still,
there w r as a successful military “tattoo” on
the Jubilee Oval, where the realistic bomb-
ing gave unsuspecting Adelaide and the
nearer suburbs a succession of jumps.
Roderic Quinn’s “Piper of Peace” has
been given a musical setting by Brewster
•Tones, of Adelaide, and was successfully
sung in the Town Hall there by Vera
Thrush. It was the one outside feature of
an otherwise Russian Night—mostly
Tschaikowsky, Rubinstein and Dvorak.
Ivanoff, the visiting violinist, gave a modern
concerto by Glazounoff —first time in Aus-
tralia- —and a “military episode” of his own
composition.
TWIN TUBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Played out the mystery of legs ;
In vain the low-cut garment begs
For public interest; and see
The last appeal of lingerie.
The wicked man, the wayward wife
Exploited are. What’s left in life?
The dramatist with haggard eyes
Tugs at his hair. “Alas!” he cries,
“What can a failing author do
To give the wretches something new!”
Then inspiration filled his head-
lie gaily put his cast to bed.
That serves its turn. Already vext,
The dramatists inquire: “What next?”
I’ve made the culminating stroke,
And put my characters in soak—
Crime, vengeance, and the aftermath
Are all enacted in the bath!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
AT POVERTY POINT.
- “Jim” Bell, one of the oldest vaudeville
artists in the profession, died lately in Mel-
bourne. lie came to Australia with Harry
Rickards, and opened at old St. George's
Hall in 18X8. With the company were Ada
Delroy (Mrs. Bell), Georgie Devoe Davis
and Fred Davis. Georgie Devoe Davis, now
running a picture-show in N. S. Wales, is
the only survivor. Bell returned to England,
and with a company toured S’Africa and the
Asian coast. Later on he returned to Mel-
bourne and stage-managed for Rickards for
10 years or more.
“Masetto” : The setting to music of the old
morality play “Everyman” by Liza Lehmann
is not the first essay in that direction. Wal-
ford Davies did the job some years ago. The
choral portion is difficult, and the whole
arrangement sufficiently solemn to make the
audience imagine itself at a church service
instead of in a concert hall. Davies has
wedded typical music to the hoary old lines,
so much so that the work is not likely to
become a favorite unless among those who
still consider the heavy works of Handel the
very last word in the divine art. I think
the only Australian showing of Davies’s
“Everyman” was in Adelaide under the baton
of the composer’s brother, Dr. Harold Davies.
(Continued on page 26.)
The muddling voluntary system of enlist-
ment, having to grab anything it can get,
has had another hint as to the kind of ass it
is. When the first appeals for volunteers
went forth the students at the Australian
universities almost unanimously stepped for-
ward. Now it has been found necessary to
hunt up the medical students in the firing-
line and ask them to come back to the Com-
monwealth to complete their studies. Under
an intelligent compulsory-service scheme
young Sawbones, two-thirds of the way
through his course, wouldn’t have been taken
into the branch of the army where he was
likely to be of comparatively little use. But
of course au intelligent scheme doesn’t seem
to be necessary in a mere skirmish against a
person who knows so little about scientific
organisation as the German.


il!
MESSRS. DAVID JONES LTD
have pleasure in inviting you to inspect their
HOHES AT STATED PRICES
George Street, opposite G.P.0., Sydney (Third Floor)
The Company is making a feature of Furnishing Homes at stated prices,
realising the necessity of the times for economy. These displays have just
been completed, and embrace the treatment of the Modern Flat at £BO. There
are also schemes suitable for either Cottages or Flats at £lOO, £l5O, and £250.
No obligation need be felt, our furniture salesmen being equally anxious to
supply information whether you desire to purchase or not.
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
SHE TELLS HOW SHE DID IT.
A well-known Society lady who darkened her
grey hair by a simple home process, made the
following statement: “Any lady or gentle-
man can darken their grey or faded hair,
stimulate its growth and make it soft and
glossy with this simple recipe, which they
can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum, 1 small box of Orlex
Compound and of glycerine. These
ingredients can be purchased at any chemist’s
at very little cost. Apply to the hair every
other day until the grey hair is darkened
sufficiently, then every two weeks. This
mixture relieves scalp troubles and is excel-
lent for dandruff and falling hair. It does
not stain the scalp, is not sticky or greasy
and does not rub off. It will make a grey-
haired person look 10 to 20 years younger.”
-—Advt. [3
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, an,
under the management of Hos
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfec
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Ha t
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
DIAGNOSING HIS CASE.
“Really, I often wonder myself why I don’t
enlist —all my father’s people were
soldiers.”
“ Perhaps , Dicky, you take after your
'mother.”
Dr. Lowther Clarke, Anglican archbishop
of Melbourne, has been telling this country
about itself. Speaking at the unveiling of
a soldier’s memorial at Oakleigh, the arch-
bishop said he felt his job was to teach
Australia “to become more serious and more
religious.” Australia feels it has a job, too.
It is to teach archbishops how to be truly
religious without being too serious about it.
“S.S.”: Casual Jimbill once more. A
peripatetic picture-showman was wearing
out a batch of last year’s films in the M im-
mera (Vic.). One night in March, while the
spruiker was reciting the superior virtues
of this particular picture-show over any
other picture-show on earth —it was in a
small town living on its natural resources
(rabbits mainly)—three young men rode out
of the gloom into the glare. Two of the
riders were supporting a third, and the
latter was doing all the talking. He wanted
to see the show. Tim and Jim expostulated.
“Where’s the blinded hurry?” said Dan.
“That’ll do all right after.” Dan had his
way. Tim and Jim tied the horses to a
fence, fished Dan out of the saddle, and car-
ried him indoors. The three sat out the
show (24 hours of it) and then Tim and Jim
hauled Dan out, hoisted him into the saddle,
and resumed their quest of the surgeon who
was to set Dan’s freshly-broken leg. It was
the splicing of his fractured bones that
Dan reckoned would do all right after the
show.
* * * *
A sad farce was gone through in a
Sydney court last week when a Mrs. Tftylor.
whose husband had died from the effects of
a fall from the Ferris Wheel at the White
City, claimed for £4OO under the Workmen’s
Compensation Act. This is what she got
instead of the money she needed :
Judge Docker, after visiting the White City, said
that the accident did not arise out of Taylor’s em-
ployment. He was oiling the axle of the Ferris
wheel, which was out of action at the time. Taylor
was a stoker, and it was no part of his duty to oil
the wheel. That was the engineer's duty. His Honor
would, therefore, have to give a verdict for the
defendants. He was very sorry, and if he could have
found material on which to act otherwise he would
have been glad of it. He hoped the company would
generously look after the welfare of the dependents
of deceased, who was admittedly a faithful and
efficient employee of the company.
If the decision stands it will plainly warn
Jim and Bill that if they venture to step an
inch outside their allotted jobs and are
killed, the. widow will get no com-
pensation. It isn’t common-sense, but it
may be the blindly stupid law, and no demar-
cation striker need hunt further for an
excuse for future folly. Judge Docker has
thrust it into his hand.
* * * *
“Karee” : Our trench copped it this morn-
ing. Shells burst our parapet and smashed
our protecting barb-wire entanglements.
Night falls and we have to repair the dam-
age. A party is detailed to take cover 40
yards ahead to parry any surprise. Next
the fatigue comes out singly. As long as
one is deeply entrenched one feels safe; but
out in the open, only 50 yards from a watch-
ing opponent—well, it’s no place like home.
The least noise in that
neutral zone brings a
shower of shrapnel or
a rattle of machine-
gun fire. The men do
not hesitate, though.
“Out you get” are the
only words they’ll
utter, besides the
cheerful old Austra-
lian blanky. Till the
work is done no cigar-
ettes. In a way, it’s
good to be out of the
trench, which is a
prison, and unpopular
with the Billjims.
They take deep breaths
of the wind and the
kiss of it on their
face. Work goes on
smoothly. Pickets are
driven in; sometimes
patent iron spikes,
screwed in the ground,
but oftener just sticks,
bunged in with mallets
muffled in rags. Every
stroke grips the heart.
What if “the cows”
heard it? Next we
unroll the wire, twist
it, mix it, tearing our
hands as we do it.
Frequently a fuse
lights the sky; then
woe to him who is not
Iyi n g fiat on the
ground, as the ready
enemy fires at anything he sees or thinks he
sees, and there’s a dead or wounded mate to
be carried back. And so we get through one
of the most frequent, most obscure and most
ordinary tasks of trench life.
* * * *
The politest and promptest suicide of the
year stepped to the edge of the Milson’s
Point (Sydney) ferry wharf the other morn-
ing, and remarking. “Well, I’m going!” drew
a bag over his head, flopped into the Harbor
and vanished out of life. Apparently the
bag was a mean but efficient substitute for
the Roman toga with which the dying patri-
cian shrouded his agonised face and so paid
a last courtesy to the world. The brick in
it was a modern addition to fit the special
circumstances.
“0.K.”: I always thought gratefully of
David Mitchell as the great Reformer of
Bacon-Curing in Victoria, and have previ-
ouslv extolled his name in The Bulletin.
How it was with the other States I don’t
know, but I can speak confidently of the
Ballarat bacon which prevailed in Melbourne
up to 28 years ago, or thereabouts. Hard,
dry, salty stuff it was, unfit for association
with respectable fried eggs. The old Tories
of the period said the bacon had to be cured
POLITENESS.
BOSS: “You must learn to be more respectful when addressing me. Ton should say
'Sir.’”
GINGER (the new boy ): “Orl right.”
BOSS: “ Yes —and what else?”
GINGER: “ Spare me days! What yell cornin’ at now — sir?”
thus “on account of the climate.” It was
the same stinking fish excuse that they made
for the primitive tanning of good, but smell-
ful. Australian leather at that time. Then
David Mitchell experimented with “mild
cure” bacon at Lilydale and put it on the
Melbourne market. A few years later all
the bacon everywhere was of a mild disposi-
tion, and has been growing milder ever since.
And I’m all the more grateful to the old
man because he went ahead in the face of
the discouragement of the newspapers. In
particular I remember the Argus scoffing at
David’s mild bacon as merely green bacon
which couldn’t be expected to put up with
our climate. In the opinion of the Airgus
no country has a right to have any
sort of climate but the Scotch kind. If it
has it must put up with the consequences.
* * * *
Mayor Madden has ruffled the cloth in
Geelong and round about. The Council
runs Sunday evening picture-shows for the
benefit of charities, and a parsonical deputa-
tion asked his Worship to stop them. Ilis
Worship and his visitors presently got to
holts, and his Worship told his adversaries
that their sermons sent people to sleep. The
clergymen strongly resented these remarks.
They protested that the mayor was entirely
mistaken. The sermons do not send people
to sleep. In point of fact, that is now one
of the chief objections to them.
* * * *
Victoria’s six leading public schools have
contributed 2381 old boys to the world-
girdling Front. Church of England Gram-
mar heads the list with 750; Scotch is sec
ond with 660, exclusive of 40 killed or miss-
ing ; 507 used to wear Wesley’s purple and
gold; and Geelong Church of England
Grammar weighs in with 223, of whom IS
have passed the Headmaster’s final exam.
Last on the list is Xavier, with 201. Nine
of these have been killed, 20 have been
wounded, and three mentioned in despatches.
One of the nine was Captain Joseph Peter
Lalor, who killed seven Turks —six with his
revolver and one with his sword—before he
fell at Sari Bair.
“Mimosa” : After this war Australians will
not require the services of Dost MohameH
Noor Khan to steer lhe camel m> the l T
2,. . 1 np hnely
bad ® of sunset, j .heir place will i )P
AH™ by the \\ hite Australian soldier, who
learnt the art in the newly-formed Camel
Corps which has just finished its training
and padded away into the desert. From mv
tent the riders seemed just as much at home
as the ordinary Bedouin.
“Catkin”: There will be something to
place to the credit of William the Ruthless
if Jimbil carries hack to Australia and there
plants the system of clocking which has now
been adopted here (Egypt) for military use.
There are 24 hours in the timepiece. 3 a.m.
is 0300 (always make four figures), 3.15
a.m. is 0315, and 3.5 a.m. 0305. Midday
is 1200; 12.1 p.m. is 1201, and _2 p.m. is
1400; 2.45 p.m. is 1445, and 11.55 p.m. is
2355. So there’s no fear of mixing up the
a.m. and the p.m. in a telephone message,
and Prudence, whom you have asked to be
ready at 4 o’clock, intending merely to take
her to tea and toast with a most respectable
maiden aunt, won’t flutter out in her nightie
at 4 in the morning, in the mistaken idea
that you’ve planned an elopement.
* * * *
There was a queer case under the
Tasmanian Testator’s Family Maintenance
Act the other day. The Act says that where
a testator so disposes of his property as not
to provide for his widow and children or any
of them, the Court may order a sum to be
paid to them out of the estate. A recent
amendment extended the provision to illegiti-
mate children. The applicant in this case
was a returned soldier who had come back
minus an eye, and with other injuries; the
testatrix, who was alleged to be his mother
without benefit of clergy, had left a matter
of £12,627. hut had made no provision for
him. Most of her estate is held in trust
for the benefit of the Church of England and
the Presbyterian Church. Justice Ewing
ruled that, assuming that he was satisfied the
applicant was the testatrix’s son, there was
nothing to justify him assuming the applicant
to be without sufficient means of support.
The fact that he had lost an eye might to
some extent limit the scope of his employ-
ment, but did not necessarily affect his, earn-
ing capacity. Though his Honor didn t say
so, it wouldn’t even prevent him becoming
a Judge—in Tasmania. Nor, when you
come to think of it, would it prevent the
Church of England giving the maltreatec
young man a job as, say, an Archdeacon, sup-
posing it was satisfied that the lady did bear
to him the relationship he claims.
WHERE IT BELONGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He believed that if they had an efficient ministry
one result would be that they would sweep that
awful curse of drink into the Pacific, and sink it in
the depths to which it belonged.
—Speech at Ttaptist Union meeting.
Is this thing true, and have they spoken right?
A Baptist parson surely ought to know.
Is there some happy well of brown delight
Beneath the broad Pacific’s ebb and flow,
Where dimpled mermaids get serenely tight,
And drunken sperm-whales wallow in a row ?
It must be there. The pub, though glad and free
And full of that choice wetness that inspires
The soul of frolic and fine minstrelsy,
Is not the goal and end of my desires.
’Tis but the shadow. There, beneath the sea,
Booze bubbles that might wake .Eolian lyres!
Deep hidden from the view of passing ships,
Paying no duty, bound by no harsh law,
The vast eternal pub forever drips
More happy beer than Bacchus ever saw.
With that full measure at my dreaming lips
I feel the thirst within me aching, raw.
Thor in the olden time, as sages tell,
Essayed with avid mouth to drain the sea ;
His vast throat gurgled, the world-beaker fell,
And the fierce god was mad as eats can be.
I understand his motive now quite well—
Once shift the brine, the beer beneath is free i
Bring me a diving-suit. I must away.
No time is this to chortle idle songs.
No six o’clock shall close my drinking day ;
, I fly to watery depths from shams and wrongs,
Where in the wise Pacific, wet and gay,
All beer by right and sovereignty belongs!
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


FIAT
CARS for ECONOMY
and RELIABILITY.
This Graceful 4-Seater Touring
Car completely equipped for
the road ; 5 Sankey Wheels ;
One=man Hood ; All Tools.
£575.
n
GARRATTS LTD.
ALICK McNEIL, Gen. Manager.
173-175 Elizabeth Street,
148-150 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
CASTOR OIL, SALTS ‘ DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness —
take California Syrup of ’ Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles o'
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [3
The Defence Department has been so kind
as to announce that it is not thought desir-
able that men who go away to fight for their
country, and who win commissions or pro-
motions in actual warfare, should altogether
lose their rank on return to Australia. The
gentlemen who stay behind making a mess of
things at the camps or writing ungram-
matical memoranda in the Censors’ offices
will keep their ranks: but if these distin-
guished warriors should happen to drop out,
then the- —ah —fellows who have been away
may get a job. Meantime the latter can have
“honorary” rank ; in other words, they will
be spectators while bed-post officers teach the
Australian army how to be an army. Iteally
the bulk of what is left of the Defence De-
partment in Australia takes itself much too
seriously. The sooner it realises that the
actual thing is away, and that most of what
if left behind is a sort of remnant counter,
the sooner it will cease issuing these ridicu-
lous “orders.”
* * * *
“Waanyarra”: The casual Australian
again! In our district this week a local
resident disappeared for two days. Search
parties eventually found him lying un-
conscious in the scrub, with a buggy
a few yards away. He was removed
QUITS.
HE: “Was it you I proposed to last night?”
SHE: “I don't know. Was it you I refused?”
to the nearest hospital—just in time,
Ihe puzzle of the affair was that the horse
had been taken from the vehicle, carefully
unharnessed, and turned unscratched into a
near-by cultivation paddock. The mystery
was cleared up when a timber-getter cut his
way back to civilisation. “Oh, y-e-e-s,” he
said. “I saw the bloke lyin’ there. I
thought ’e was dead, an’ I ses to meself, ‘No
good to me, I got me wood to cut!’” So,
after caring for the horse, he went on his
Australian way.
THE MONUMENT.
“Oh, vat a beautiful ring, Ikey! Vere did you get it ?”
“My poor brother died, Moses, and left £200 for a stone to be erected in his memory.”
“Bad Australian”: We go one better in
Argentina. Some little time ago an estan-
ciero in the back country found himself short
of 250 head of cattle. He and a bunch of
his gauchos set out to trace the duffers, but
after several weeks’ search lie had to own up
that he was chequered and made an appeal
to autoridad —usually the last resource in
cases of prad-copping or cattle-duffing.
Being gifted with the wisdom of the serpent,
and dominated by certain suspicions, he
didn’t go near the local “sargint,” but went
along and bought expensive puros for the
Chief of Police for the district, and
put his case to that dignitary
between drinks. This potentate
went quietly to work, and, by the
aid of his secret-service myrmidons,
very soon discovered that ani-
mals had been lifted by the local
sergeant and several neighboring
police pals. Things began to look
dirty for the combine, but they got
wise to what was happening, and,
with commendable promptitude,
called a council of war. Imme-
diately thereafter the local sergeant
wired headquarters that, after
much hard work and many vicis-
situdes, he and others had secured
the offender, who was no other than
the estanciero’s own manager!
Then they waited on that manager
and clapped him in the calaboose
and assembled a multitude of per-
jurers ready to swear according to
orders. It took that estanciero
several weeks’ solid work and lash-
ings of shin-plasters to place the
blame where it belonged. The only
satisfaction the manager got on
release was a bit of friendly advice
to the effect that he had better be
more careful in future. The dis-
trict sergeant is a power in the
land hereabouts, always provided
that he belongs to a powerful political
gang. He is appointed by his pals in office,
and when they go out of a job he goes out
with them. So he makes timely provision
for an uncertain future.
* * * *
“Lou”: Some years ago an excellent
opportunity offered for the assassina-
tion of John Norton. He published a
scurrilous libel on Marshall Hall and
a lady friend, and Hall bought a little gun
for the purpose of killing the pestilence.
Unfortunately Hall’s silly musical cronies
prevented him from carrying out his idea,
instead of assisting him to put it into prac-
tice. Had he done so he undoubtedly would
liave become a national hero. No jury
would have convicted him of anything worse
than justifiable homicide, and a splendid
testimonial would have signalised his acquit-
tal, and all right-thinking persons would
have mentioned him in their prayers. The
opportunity can never occur again. Marshall
Hall is conducting the harps, and Norton
is stoking a furnace, and a great gulf is fixed
between the orchestra and the pit.
Wilfrid Snow, an Adelaide youngster w r ho
learned how to fly at Hendon (Eng.),
sends an interesting yarn of how the bird is
hatched :—•
At first you just roll the machine to and fro in
a straight line on the ground—not as easy as it
looks, either. Then when you have some idea of a
straight line and are quite used to the roar of the
engine, rush of wind, etc., you make a straight flight,
just skimming the ground. That is a real hair-
raiser. You are quite on your own in the machine,
and the sensation, when you pull the control back
and she rises into the air—or, rather, when the
ground sinks away from under you —just beats any-
thing. Of course, when you get in the air for the
first time you feel a bit funky—at least, I did —but
it’s wonderful how soon you overcome that. It’s the
rising off the ground that is so delicious. You rush
along full-speed, and as you go the tail rises, the
bumps get less and less, until at last they cease,
and you see the grass all blurred and feel she is off.
Motoring! Yachting! Neither is to be compared
with this!
And then. . . .bump ! In my first days I was rocking
along about 20ft. up when I lost control of the old
’bus, and down she came. One side of her collapsed
like an eggshell. It’s wonderful how it’s done, but I
escaped without a scratch. There are five or six
civilian schools here, besides the official (naval) one,
and when the weather is fine and everyone is out,
plenty of smashes are to be seen. Yet it’s very sel-
dom anyone gets hurt. I have never seen a pupil
seriously injured—not even the one who came crash-
ing down from 500 ft. the other day, diving straight
into the ground. The machine was smashed to splin-
ters, yet all he got was a slight cut on his fore-
head.
Of course, if a chap’s luck is dead out he can get
killed by falling 3ft. The other day an experienced
pilot was flying a big naval machine. Turning too
steeply he was caught in a gust of wind, and down
he crashed from less than 100 ft. The machine
caught fire immediately. The pilot got out of the
wreckage only slightly burnt, but the observer was
jambed, and before he could be extricated was so
badly burnt that he died some days after. To make
things a little more willing three bombs which were
attached to the machine exploded with a terrific
bang when the heat of the fife got properly to them.
The flying tests for the Royal Aero Club’s pilot’s
certificate are two sets, each of five figures of eight,
with a landing after each set. This landing has to
be done so that the machine comes to rest within
50yds. of the observer. You fly these eights at a
height of about 500 ft., this being far safer than
being only, say, 200 ft. up, as in case anything goes
wrong you have more time to get straight again
before the bump. The other part of the test is a
volplane from about 500 ft. with your engine stopped.
This is the best part of the whole game of flying. As
for myself I was feeling so good that I went up well
over 1000 ft. before starting on the downward track.
When you get upstairs you put the nose of the
machine down, cut off the engine, and down she
whizzes. A wonderful experience—not a sound' ex-
cept the rush and swish-sh-sh of the air through the
struts and things. Takes perhaps 20 minutes to get
up there and half as many seconds to come down!
When you get near the ground you just pull the con-
trols back about two or three inches, and the old ’bus
flattens out and descends at a less acute angle, and
(provided you do it right) touches the ground as
lightly as thistledown.
A long-distance divorce argument was
more or less finally considered by the High
Court last week after the suit had wandered,
in many forms, before many Judges. On
August 2, 1907, Nathan Uearman, after
leaving his wife, filed his petition for divorce
in Sydney, alleging misconduct. The peti-
tion was dismissed by Justice G. B.
Simpson, but the Full Court upset that deci-
sion ; whereupon the matter went on to the
High Coxirt, which agreed with the Divorce
Judge. Dearman then endeavored to appeal
to the Privy Council, but was refused leave
—in November, 1909. The husband, accept-
ing the position, wrote to his wife asking
her to return to him, first immediately after
the Privy Council decision, and subsequently
towards the end of 1910, but received mo
reply. Three years later both parties sued
for divorce on the grounds of desertion, the
wife alleging that she had not received her
husband’s letters, and the husband that her
non-compliance with his request constituted
desertion on her part. The desertion on
both sides seemed plain enough; but, after
tangling itself over technical discussions as
to whether a man who had left his wife
could claim to have been deserted by her, or
whether a woman who ignored her husband’s
requests for a reconciliation could maintain
that he had deserted her, the Law reached
its usual absurd conclusion —that as both
parties seemed anxious to sunder, it was
best not to give them legal sanction. Again,
cross-appeals from this decision were, in
November last, thrown into the High Court,
which took until last week to decide in favor
of the Divorce Court judgment; and now,
except for an application about the custody
of a child, the lengthy discussion seems to
have reached its end with great dissatisfac-
tion to everyone but Costs.
UNSELFISH.
SHE: “Sir! you forget yourself.”
HE: "Possibly; but I can think of myself
any old time.”
THE ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I think that early to my home
«r Last night I might have won,
Rut for fhe sage remark of Smith
That Something Should Re Done.
For Jones declared that pubs should keep
Their doors wide all the night;
While Smith brought argument to prove
That six o'clock was right.
Then, when Jones vanished, Rriggs appeared
And argued, might and main,
That ten was just the ideal hour—
Till Smith had lost his train.
Wo then adjourned for steak and eggs,
And thus we met with Tate,
Who shouted, heard the argument,
And gave his vote for eight.
Now Tate is not a patient man,
And when Smith* called him “Fool!”
The argument attained a heat
It took some drinks to cool.
’Twas somewhere in the early hours—
At three o'clock, l think—
Smith helped us rouse a silent pub
To try to get a drink.
He faded in an awful curse
About our non-success;
I have not seen him since, and where
lie went I cannot guess.
I’ve anxiously inquired of Jones
Jr he Smith’s fate could fix;
Rut Jones declares he does not know,
For he got home at six!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


THE EASTER SHOW.-MACHINERY SECTION.


ihC
no l^
poc^
John .• Tell »vie so»v\g ic are
“Htc •nsCttcr ooYtVz me " S’llly • “Well .To uiitW.
you arc
•
V\JaK-<£%
Many of the well-known singers of '
Melbourne have experienced very troub-
lous times during the period of the war,
l giving their services freely to aid the
I various patriotic funds, and, as their ,
1 voices are, in many cases, their sole
* capital, this gratuitous giving has '
- resulted in very hard times indeed.
Surj-etTeti Suburbanite (whose
*r»i been 0 oJ" the ""**'■»•»,
\rsv s
W weeks'); voVtoVe^
bOorldl was.'iOKik m un^uity
just because one
v —- 1 idioT uooold
bersisT "i
L , ar?
1-f ‘fins continues
we may
4o see our c
patriotic /
tenors /
'
Blocic * ih
a new
shortly.
! it Is reported from Washington that,
[despite the trend of press critieism, the
| Administration refuses to take any
definite action with regard to Germany,
except in the way of seeking further
information.
: " £r~ I josT tAia-uianTedl He's
a* as N " x
~ Since the determination of the Under*
takers' Assistants' Wages Hoard cauie
' === into operation, by whicli wages were
increased, it is said that some employers
are compelling the men to buy mew
clbthes and "belltoppers,” in which to
do their work. Previously, it seems, the
inen purchased secondhand clothing,
which met their requirements.
OndarTakera AssisTanT : *
<|tjr ? liOas yer rels»le4
io -the remains? “
Po : " f\|o. I’m thinkuis
price »ne 'at
THE WEEK’S WORRIES.


JfugeUL
Chaving
OTICK
jjevae
For an
Ideal Shave
i
f MADE IN AUSTRALIA
ESI
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
/
LEWIS&WhITTy
M&L&OUftNE & SYDNEY.
Keep Copies of Your Correspondence by using
Zanetjc Paper. You write your letter with pen and
ink in your usual manner, and with no more trouble,
and as you write a clear, permanent copy is P ro '
duced, and the original shows no sign of having
been duplicated. All Stationers, Stores, etc., sel
Zanetic Ink Paper, or from S. B. Zanetic, Leicester,
England. Zanetic is ALL BRITISH. — Advt.
<?
>
QUICK RESULTS
~ - a USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
A splendid growth of Hair can
be produced on the upper lip hy
the use of Oapillarine. Make UP
your mind to grow the Moustache
and start using this true Hair-
grower right a wav.
PRICE 10/8 JAR—POST FREE.
:raig s amen, '“.{ss*
Established over SO yew.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Morgan, the central figure in the N. S.
AVales petrol c-ase—the man who was sup-
posed to have “approached” the British
Imperial Oil G 0.,, and enriched the language
with the beautiful term “lost money”—is an
Amurkan who has been hunting the commis-
sion bird in Australia for 20 years past. He
has never had much to do with oil, but most
of his days have been spent selling chiefly-
Yankee mining machinery. Once, eight or
fen years ago, he blossomed as managing
director of a co. which was going to make
rock-drills in Sydney; but the bottom fell
through the scheme, and Morgan landed in
rhe financial soup. In fact, to fall in the
soup seems somehow to have been rather a
habit of Morgan’s.
MAJOR McTRERNEY, Provost Marshal of
Melbourne.
H. E. Kater, M.L.C., whose ill-health
caused him to resign the treasurership of
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, had charge
of the pence for 14 years—the longest record
for the honorary position. But there are
some much older bones on the Board of the
P.A.—Prof. Andy Stuart, 33 years; “Mr.
James” Fairfax, 31 years; Dr. Mackellar,
30 years. 11. E. Ivater has himself sat
there for 24 years.
One hundred years on April 12 since the
birth of Charles Gavan Duffy, the Irish
nationalist who was twice tried for sedition,
was elected to the Commons, and after his
arrival in Australia in 1855 became Premier
of Victoria and Speaker. His fellow coun-
trymen gave him a tremendous reception
oil his arrival in Melbourne, and at the
banquet he declared that he was still an
Irish rebel “to the backbone and spinal
marrow.” Justice Duffy, of the High
Court, is a son.
“F.L.J.”: Not many who were in the
battle of Eureka 00 years ago are left now.
One who was there has just died at Berac,
near Colac (Vic.). M. F. Neylon had a lot
to tell, whenever he could be drawn out,
about the Ballarat goldfields when they were
at their best, and about the Eureka stockade.
Born in County Clare (after which it is
usual to say “God help us!” I don’t know
why) 83 years ago, he, when 18 years of age,
went from Clare to Geelong, and was in the
first rush to Ballarat. Later on he went in
heavily for sporting, kept a stable, and did
some good things on the turf. Ope of his
sons is a medical man now in the war in
France.
Left Bathurst the other day for the home
of all the oldest inhabitants, John Henry
Ivable, aged 90, a member of one of Aus-
tralia’s oldest families. His grandparents,
Henry Ivable and Susanah Holmes, were
amongst the first batch of couples married
on the arrival of the first fleet. Parson
Johnson, the fleet chaplain, had a gala wed-
ding-day on February 10, 1788, tying up five
such. Kable helped to make our early his-
tory ; he was said to have been the first man
to land in Sydney Cove, carrying Governor
Phillip on his back through the shallow
water and mud. He was also Australia’s
first gaoler, and afterwards became a mem-
ber of the merchant firm of Lord, Under-
wood and Kable.
The sons of Anglican parson Howell
Price, of Waterloo (N.S.W.), are following
the teaching of the Good Book, and are not
ashamed when they speak with their
enemies in the gate. Sons Owen, Philip and
Fred spent seven strenuous months arguing
with Abdul in the gates of Gallipoli, with
the result that the two former are now
respectively a major and a captain, while
Fred, who started in the ranks, has climbed
to a lieutenancy. Ow r en can write
D.S.O. after his name when he w 7 ants to,
and all three are still on service. Now comes
word that a fourth son. John, who is a
naval lieutenant, has been mentioned in
despatches for his work in the North Sea
on board the Alcantara w T hen she stopped
the German raider Greif from slipping out
to imitate the Moewe. John had to swim for
it when the Alcantara went down, but was
rescued, and has been given charge of a
submarine.
“Greenstone” on an eminent freelance
The adventurous Colonel Hamilton Browne, known
as “Maori” Browne, died in Jamaica about six
weeks ago. Son of a Major in the 44th, his family
was of Ulster, and he was reared near Londonderry.
When only a big schoolboy he was arrested as a
Fenian, but got out of that scrape, spent four months
with the Papal Zouaves fighing the Italians,
and afterwards passed the English army examination.
But, being in Belgium, he fought a duel, and badly
wounded a baron who had tried to blackmail him
with the aid of a pretty wife; and this prevented
his entrance into the English army. Then he went
to Maoriland, got into the wars there, and later on
published a book entitled “With the Lost Legion in
New Zealand.” Next, after much knocking about,
he joined Fulleine’s Rangers—“ The Lambs”—in
S’Africa, where he had been shipwrecked. He fought
in sundry nigger wars , from 1877 onwards against
the Zulus, Basutos, Bechuanas, and Dinizulu; and
when all his swashbuckling was over he was in
such poverty that he accepted relief in London from
the Salvation Army. Afterwards a rich Canadian
lady, Miss Wilkerson, took pity on poor “Maori”
Browne, married him, and he wound up in clover.
“T. 0.1.”: Other Australians elected to the
House of Commons (B. 30/3/T6) :
John Mitchell, of Tasmania; Kevin Izod
O’Doherty, of Tasmania and Queensland;
Bryan O’Loghlen, of Victoria ; and John
Martin, of Tasmania. Mitchell was-elected
on his return to Ireland in the mid ’seventies,
was blocked at the door of Parliament House
on the ground that he was a “returned con-
vict,” went back to Tipperary and was re-
elected, but was again blocked, this time by
motion of the House. O’Doherty, who was
fully pardoned, was elected for Meath.
Bryan O’Loghlen was elected to fill the
place of his brother Colman; held the seat,
without occupying it; was then unseated on
the ground that at the time of his election
he held an office of profit under the Crown,
i.e., the Attorney-Generalship of Victoria.
Bryan was making arrangements to “go
home” when he was thrown out. His first
knowledge of his election and succession to
the baronetcy he got from the Argus, which
he bought at Brighton Railway Station and
opened on his way to Melbourne. John
Martin, also a fully pardoned “convict,” was
elected for Meath and held the seat for some
years.
What sort of irony was it that made the
N. S. Wales Government appoint N. G.
McWilliams, Sydney’s totally-blind barrister,
to be chairman of the Gasmakers’ wages
board?
LATEST FROM THE FRONT.
PREOCCUPIED M OTHER: “You ain’t running
him into anything. Nurse, are you?”
PREOCCUPIED N URSE: "No, Mum.”
MOTHER: “That’s right! I don’t want him
to he shaken.”
Killed by a train at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.)
last week, James Angus, the man who first
showed the Ma State how to make good
champagne. Born in Scotland 80 years ago,
Angus went to Maoriland just after his
marriage in 1863, and ran a sawmill near
Invercargill. "Later, he started as a railway
contractor, and built several lines in the
Shaky Isles. In 1879 he crossed over to
N. S. Wales, and for 16 years had a couple
of fingers in every railway pie that was cut,
laying down also one of the earliest tram-
lines in Sydney. In 1895 he went out of
the contracting business, and turned his
mind to wine-growing as a hobby for his old
age. Buying McKay’s vineyards at Rooty
Hill, he added largely to their area and
equipped them with up-to-date accessories.
Visits to Europe gave him new ideas, and he
succeeded at last in turning out bottled sun-
shine equal to anything from Reims or
Epernay. The London gold medal came to
him for seven years in succession. A couple
of years ago he sold out to the S. Australian
Penfold firm, but he continued to live close
to the .vineyards. Angus took his share in
local civics, and was president of the shire
council, vice-president of the big Sydney
show, and the originator of the Warragamba
irrigation scheme, which is now supplying
fees to the N.S.W. Public Works Committee.
He was a firm believer in Australian indus-
tries, and was a director of several big manu-
facturing concerns in his own State; but
of all things he was proudest of being vice-
president of the Burnside Orphanages—the
fine group of homes for children which the
kirk, aided chiefly by the siller of Angus
and James Burns, runs near Parramatta
(N.S.W.). For most of his life he had been
used to dodging trains, but they beat him
at last, when on a level crossing in front of
Ins home he stepped from behind a passing
goods” right in front of an express on
the other set of rails. After a married life
of 53 years his widow survives him.
Died at Hobart the other day, just after
the carrying of the vote for 6 o’clock closing
Henry Nickolls, for the past 20 years man-
ager of the Cascade Brewery Co. lie was 58.
All the theological students, bar two. at
Trinity College, Melbourne, have enlisted
here or in England. The two failed to pass
the medical test. The Anglican God is bit-
terly opposed to the Germanising of Gott it
seems.
Richard Denis Meagher having once been
in the law and then removed from the
by the NS.W. Full Court, would it b e p?
missible to describe him on any proi
statue as the Out-Lawed Mayor? ! Sed
capt a i n w.
McGowan, who died
recently at Ardrossau
(Scotland), brought j.
small steamer f rom
that port to Australia
under sail in ig-j-
Tlie voyage took four
months. and there
were grave doubts
whether the craft
would ever reach its
destination. In 1882
while the clipper Hen'
venue, of which
McGowan was mas-
ter. was anchored in
Timaru Bay (MX.)
Davy .Tones ran amok
and destroyed the only
three vessels in sight
It looked as if Daw’
annoyed at the way in
which he had been
dared five years pre-
viously, was deter-
mined to add
McGowan to his col-
lection. Rut the Scot
dodged the locker, and
got all his crew safely
ashore, although the
Timaru harbor-master
and six men who at-
tempted to save the
crew of the Citv of
Perth were ‘lost.
McGowan, who retired
from the sea 20 years
ago, was an inventor
when he wasn’t a
skipper, and success-
fully applied the aux-
iliary engine to sail-
ing ships. He was 71
when he dropped
anchor. His elder son
is at present skipper
of one of the Common-
wealth Government’s
steamships, and the other is somewhere in
the war-honeycomb.
There will be a lot of new faces when the
Tasmanian Parliament meets. Pour will
show up among the Liberals. The electors
passed out Quaker Cotton and Cold-tea
Pullen to make way for Burbury and Hobbs.
Ex-Minister Ilean got the seat held by
Byan, who had had enough of it; and W. H.
Burgess, Treasurer in the long ago, and once
a director of the defunct V.D.L. Bank, took
a seat from Labor in Denison. Among the
Laborites there are three apprentices. Bar-
ker forgot to nominate and gave a safe seat
to ,T. If. Cleary. Martin was turned down
for W. E. Shoubridge, who has been fighting
elections, State and Federal, for about 2J
years past, and has got a leg-in at last. Jim
McDonald, president of the F.M.E.A., was
knocked out in Bass by J. H. Guy, a son
of Senator Guy and secretary of many
unions.
THOUGHT SHE MEANT HIM.
SHE: "Do you believe in the survival of the
’fittest?"
HE: “ Surely! That’s why I haven't
enlisted."
MALBESH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Below the sangars on the hill—
A blot of green upon the grey—-
The simple crosses catch the sun
Beyond the gold and azure bay.
Farewell, old pals, good rest to you,
Below the sangars at Matruh!
No more through lakes of bright mirage
You’H see our dusty columns swing,
Nor through the glaring Wades’ charge
When double-tongued the Mausers ring.
Maleesli, old pals—we’ll think of you
Below the sangars at Matruh!
The desert sands at summer’s breath
May sear the gentle grasses brown ;
Our simple monuments be lost
Beneath the Desert’s spreading frown;
But memory’s wreath is ever new
Below the sangars at Matruh.
MATRVII (westers Egypt).
JACK SOMMERS.


c 1 _
■44)
7)
=f*s
a
%
capstan
VD/»,«iw tus
It
Sr
k
WHY SHE SM I LED !
AND
W. D. & H .O .WILLS.
THE LAST WORD IN PIPFQ
400
LMN
E very p, P e <3uarar 'teed
LMN


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for non-flowing bores and where the water has receded.
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney. Adopted by the Government
for increasing supply at Pera Bore, Bourke. [2
BUCYRUvS CO • Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents—WILLIAM ADAMS CSb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth'
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Aug., ’08..16,272 ll p.c.= 11,025 2500 2,747 185,148
I'eb., ’09..16,142 fi2 „ ~11,025 2500 2,617 187,765
Aug., ’09.-16,663 12 „ ~ 11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
Feb., ’10..16,346 12 „ ~11,156 2500 2,690 193,593
Aug., ’lO.-16,575 12 ~ ~11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
Feb., ’11..20,133 14 „ ~12,862 4000 3,271 199,783
Aug., ’ll.. 17,965 14 „ ~12,862 5,103 204,886
Feb., ’12.. 17,941 14 „ ~12,862 5,079 209,965
Aug., ’12..17,221 14 „ ~ 12,862 4,359 214,324
Feb., ’13.. 17,987 14 „ ~12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug., ’13.. 18,071 14 „ ~12,862 5,209 224,658
Premiums on new shares .. 25,000 249,658
Feb., ’14.. 19,931 14 p.c.= 14,700 5,231’254,889
Aug., ’14.. 18,188 14 „ ~14,700 3,488 258,377
Feb., ’15.. 19,743 14 „ ~14,700 5,043 263,420
Aug., ’15..17,426 14 „ ~ 14,700 2,726 266,146
Feb., ’16..20,375 14 „ ~14,700 4200 1,475 267,621
You can please yourself whether you regard
the half-year’s profit as £20,375 or as
£16,175. The directors prefer the former,
and show the £4200 as an appropriation
to write down Government ln
one sense of course this loss in the market
value of securities is a war loss to be set
against war profits. But, while the war
profits are very actual things, which you can
take in your hand and look at when the
extra 1 or li per cent, interest is paid by
the borrower, the war loss isn’t appreciable
unless and until you want to sell the
shrunken securities. And the chances are
that this bank won’t want to sell its Gov-
ernment securities, because it isn’t at all
likely to be hard pressed by its creditors in
the near future, and thus want money
urgently. That’s one advantage of having
strengthened its position a couple of years
ago by issuing new capital. That issue
helped to bring the bank’s present funds up
to £467,621. The public’s money in the
business isn’t five times that much; and
even six or seven times is a very moderate
proportion. Further, of the public’s money
just upon one-lialf is liquid and in Govern-
ment securities, this bank having come
along splendidly with no less than £200,000
for the British and (up to Feb. 29)
£50,000 for the Commonwealth war loans.
A little of this money has been got from
depositors, but most of it is being used this
way instead of in advances. The; latter
are less, chiefly no doubt because traders are
carrying lighter stocks. Here are the figures
compared with those of 12 months ago :
Feb., 1915. Feb., 1916.
Notes and bills.. £5,086 £4,731 Dec. £355
Deposits . . . . 1,910,862 1,999,621 Inc. 88,759
Liquid assets .. 780,423 998,798 Inc. 218,375
Advances.. .. 1,555,641 1,432,900 Dec. 122,741
Premises.. .. 58,003 59,175 Inc. 1,172
Circumstances do seem to favor Tasmania a
little. The island’s export trade is very
largely with the mainland, and the Hun
isn’t affecting that. To this extent the
Commercial of Tasmania scores by compari-
son with other banks, which find the financ-
ing of so much of Australia’s export trade
now done by the Commonwealth Bank. The
war, with the huge Government purchases
and the pooling of wheat and commandeering
of meat, has played into the hands of the
Commonwealth Bank surprisingly, and lifted
it further than it was likely to reach in
20 years of peace. And it is all at the
expense of the other banks —a new feature
which it is desirable that investors should
take into account when weighing up the
pros and cons, of a deal in bank stock.
* * * -
The New Zeal," no T.oan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co.. 1 d.. which is in the
pastoral-fiunr< o ;; C. r.-eucy business in Aus-
tralia ar.d Ma iliand :
Full Paid on
Interest Account
on Ist and Interest Divi-
Gposs 2n<2Deben-on3rd De- dend lte-
June, Profits, tures Paid, bentures. (5 p.e.). serves.
f £180,416 £98,953 £17,259 \
1907 -C Suspense account (f 100,000) > £6,429 £315,133
( added to reserves. J
iqor i 157,703 98,903 17,259 ( n n -
1908 1 Surpluses on sales, £50,000 ( 6,429 400 ’ 19u
1909.. 177,747 98,953 17,259 6,370 455,360
(7 p.c.) (74 p.c.)
1910.. 180,885 98,953 26,848 10,147 500,297
ion / Surpluses on sales, £50,000 I, n
1911 1 195,947 98,953 26,847 \ 10,151 610 ’ 293
1019/ Surpluses on sales, £50,000 \ ln , ki
\ 196,030 98,953 26,847 / '^ u ’ d ' z
Cash dividends to shareholders and bonus
to 3rd debenture holders, £454,536 . . 265,836
Exes, of reconstruction, including discounts
on new debentures, underwriting, etc.,
£84,452 181,384
Profits on liquidation of N.Z. Land Associa-
tion, £75,866 257,250
Dividends.
t --K 1
5 p.c. Written
Profits, prefs. Ordinary. Off.
1913.. £109,915 £23,336 5 p.c. = £32,718£20,000 £291,111
1914.. 139,553 49,460 5 „ „ 41,716 339,488
Further profits on liquidation of N.Z. Land)
Association . . . . . . £166,571 ! 446,194
Written off premises and stores. . 59,865 I
1915.. 136,387 49,460 5 p.c. = 41,716 491,405
This co.’s history is a good object lesson on
the horrors of booms. In the days of the
previous borrowing madness it lent freely
011 pastoral securities. Then the boom
broke, and the co.’s own creditors wanted
their money back. At first the co. tried to
pay them; but presently it was forced to
give up the attempt, because the properties
on which the co. had made advances were
worth in some cases less than one-tliird of
their oid value. Just now it may do good
to recall that half of our troubles after the
last boom were the result of a bad slump
in the markets; and it looks at least pro-
bable that this war will be followed by
similar prices.
How bad a slump cau be may be gauged
by the fact that the Australian exports
which in 1884 were worth £lOOO weyjg in
1894 worth only £579. This meant Tliat,
even if we got our imports cheaper, we had
t) send away nearly twice as much wool and
wheat and copper to pay our interest bill.
It is not merely the extra debt that we need
worry about just now and the extra interest
bill; it is also the great probability that we
shall have to send away an enormously in-
creased quantity of products to do the same
work on account of a fall in their value.
The theory of it is that the world has been
increasing its production to meet the swell-
ing requirements of a world which has been
growing fat and prosperous in peace. Sud-
denly this world is plunged in war, prosperity
flies out of the window, and the world’s
demand for a thousand things eases off—
which naturally means a sudden fall in
prices. Our own case may be rather w’orse
than most, because we are far away froip
the big markets for our staples, and the
reduced shipping of the world won’t watlt
to come to us when it can get freights closer
home.
The circumstances are such that the cos.
which finance rural industries might easily
make fearful losses. Prices of all sorts of
lands have lately been sky-high. Saltbush
and mulga country in the Far West of N. S.
Wales, held on lease, has brought prices
that make you wonder whether they’ve dis-
covered a new lucerne that can grow on
rocky ridges with a lOin. rainfall. Cer-
tainly if the buyers at these prices have
two or three decent years with stock at their
present rates, they won’t worry any mort-
gagee. But the buyer who hasn’t had that
chance, and also the buyer who has put his
money into land which he has cut up and
sold for wheat farms, may find the world a
cold place soon. And so may the mortgagee
who has financed him. Meantime, of course,
the mortgagee has been having a gorgeous
time. He held a good deal of property, and
in the present bogus prosperity he has been
able to get rid of it at great advantage.
During the last few years this co. has, for
instance, been winding up its pup, the New
Zealand Land Association; and very big
surpluses have been received. Twelve
months ago it was reported that £120.000
more would probably be forthcoming; actu-
ally £160,572 has come in, and apparently
that isn’t the lot. Blit while the co. is sell-
ing others are buying at these high prices ;
and who is financing them? That is what
we shall probably find out in the next five
years.
However, this co. is particularly well
placed. Its great advantage is that it has
very few unfixed liabilities. Besides its
share capital of £1,823,515 and its 4 p.c.
debenture stock, it owes only £376,065 ; and
it has liquid assets far in excess of that.
Here are the figures
Liabilities.
1904. 1914. 1915.
Debentures . . £3,309,531 £2.000,000 £2,000,000
Other debts . . 565,888 440,918 376,065
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 378,468 965,916 903,293
Land Association. . 552,659
Co.’s debentures . . 471,461 300,000 300,000
Advances.. .. 1,981,438 2,744,492 2,971,763
Properties, stock.. 210,131 53,644 49,272
Premises . . . . 290,722 394,992 330,000
Other assets . . 229,619 211,321 203,102
So it can see any temporary trouble through.
It won’t have to realise in a hurry. And
any reasonably well-managed co. which
doesn’t have to realise in a hurry on Aus-
tralian pastoral and farming securities is
fairly safe, so far at any rate as its capital
is concerned.
* * * *
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd.:—
Written De-
Profits. Dividends. Off. fieit.
£ K '£ £
Mar., ’li.. - Hioon
Aug., 11.. 8,192 ] 1 p.c.= 2277 3908 8,998
Feb., T 2. . 9,624 10 „ ~ 3035 5416 7,825
Deserves.
Nominal
Assets transferred to other cos. and written
up, apparently (net) £67,227 . . . . 59,403
Pref. Ord.
Feb., 14.. 11,120 10p.c.= 1600 sp.c.= 6070 62,853
Assets further written-up, £3BB .. 63,241
Feb., ’15.. 11,219 10 p.c.= 1200 10p.e.= 6070 67,190
Assets further written up, £46 .. 67,236
Feb., ’16.. 7,473 10p.c.= 1200 10p.c.= 6071 67,438
The rapid conversion of a deficit of £11,005
into a surplus of £67,438 would be very
magnificent if it really meant anything. But
it doesn t —at any rate, it doesn’t mean
much. Amalgamated Pictures was origin-
ally formed to take over the Taits’ business,
and subsequently various other small pur-
chases were made. Then the brethren got
tired of the strife in the synagogue, and
suggested that all the principal picture
showmen should throw their businesses into
one concern. It was done, and the one con-
cern was split into two —Union Theatres and
Australasian Films. These two cos. gave
the four big cos. shares for their businesses
and leased what premises they wanted. The
assets of this co. therefore consist now of
shares in these two combine cos., freeholds
and leases, advances to the subsidiary cos.
and a few sundries. Split it up this way:—
Shares in Combine cos. ~ . . . . .. £§7 616
1 reeholds, leaseholds (lets mortgages) .. 2 1 '552
Advances, etc., to Combine cos. .. .. 19 7ig
Cash and book debts . . .. .. .. 9,246
Shares in minor cos. .. .. .. \\ 3 700
. Total ... . . .. ..£144,832
Against that the only liabilities are sundry
creditors £456. But of the £87,616 repre-
sented by shares in the Combine cos.
probably three-fourths is merely paper.
Thus the co. may have tangible assets to
the extent of its capital, but very little
more. And a good deal of the value of the
tangible assets would evaporate if Ihe good-
will evaporated. In other words, if the
bottom fell out of the picture business and
this concern became unprofitable, the share-
holders would not be able to get 20s. in the
£ for even the tangible assets. Hence there
is nothing gilt-edged about these shares.
They are rather for the person who is pre-
pared to chance his capital for the sake of
a high return. The co. again pays alO p.c.
dividend on its capital. There was not much
left over, though. But, partly in explana-
tion of that, “the parent cos. have followed
the policy of conserving their resources and
in consequence the distribution of dividends
by those cos. to the vendor cos. has not been
on the scale which actual profits would have
permitted.”
Of course one can’t say definitely what the
future of this co. is going to be. But it is
quite clear that the moving-picture business
has come to stay; and it ldoks more doubtful
than it did two or three years ago whether
patrons will require picture-show managers
to add expensive human entertainers to their
film programmes. The habitual picture-
goer, at any rate, appears to regard the living
entertainer as a sort of intruder. And
that’s going to be good for picture-showmen’s
profits.
* * * *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic
Power Co. (it started with a deficit of
£15,000, capital represented by a paper
asset) : —•
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904. .£13,889 10 p.c.=£11,250 £2639 £4,393
1905.. 13,260 10 „ ~11,250 2010 6,403
1906.. 14,187 10 „ ~11,250 2937 9,340
1907.. 13,092 10 „ ~11,250 ffft2 11,182
1908.. 12,636 10 „ ~11,250 - 1386 12,568
1909.. 11,268 9 „ ~ 10,125 1143 13,711
1910.. 12,300 8 „ „ 9,000 3300 17,011
1911.. 12,909 8 ~ ~ 9,000 3909 20,920
1912.. 13,145 8 „ „ 9,000 £2469 1676 22,596
1913.. 12,048 8 „ „ 9,000 776 2272 24,868
1914.. 11,641 8 „ „ 9,000 2368 273 25,141
1915.. 10,175 7 „ „ 7,875 2287 13 25,154
Note first that it was only in 1912 that any-
thing began to be shown as written off.
Prior to that what was spent in plant
renewal and to cover contingencies was
charged up to working exes., assuming that
it wasn’t debited to capital account. Hence,
to get a true idea of the movement, we
must deduct the amounts written off in
recent years ; and that being done the net
profits run like this :
1910 . .£12,300 1913 . . £11,272
1911 . . 12,909 1914 . . 9,273
1912 .. 10,676 1915 7,888
And that looks very sick. There has been
a lot of trouble in the camp for the past
two or three years. The co. is one of the
rather old-fashioned sort (just-dead James
Angus lias been chairman. of it for some
time) ; and the men who control it got the
idea that an attempt was being made to
deliver it into the hands of the Philistines.
The alleged Philistines protested that they
were being misunderstood—that they were
really the best of good Samaritans. What-
ever they were their services were not
accepted. Now the question is whether the
right thing was done. Of course the
factions don’t agree on the point. The
directors, through their late chairman,
say that “there are now more machines
on the co.’s mains than at any pre-
vious time,” that the new “department
of lift maintenance and repair work
has produced a satisfactory increase in
revenue, a reasonable profit and contented
consumers,” and that “the shareholders’
decision a year ago that the co. should
undertake this important ivork [repairs and
maintenance] is completely justified by
results.” On the other hand, the Philistines
who may be Samaritans say “Look at the
figures !” Deducting the £2071 spent during
the past half-year for “wages and material
used in lift repair work,” the gross revenue
for the term compares with that for corres-
ponding terms like this :
1908 ..£12,353 1912 ..£12,089
1909 .. 11,430 1913 .. 11,856
1910 .. 11,852 1914 .. 11,551
1911 .. 12,129 1915 .. 10,336
But The Bulletin isn’t disposed to come
to a final judgment on the latest figufes. The
hydraulic lift still seems to be ahead of its
very keen electrical rival for heavy goods-
lifting; and it is probably true that war-
interference with trade is directly respon-
sible for a smaller consumption of the co.’s
power. Also it is no doubt true that the co.
had derived little benefit ’during the term
from the new lifts put in as a result of the
more energetic canvass for business. But
whether the co. has under normal conditions
arrested the decline of revenue or not, two
things are certain: (1) it has a very alert
competitor in the matter of mechanical
supplies, and in the matter of power supply
it has in the City Council’s electric depart-
ment a competitor which isn’t out after
profit; (2) it is now heavily weighted with
assets which are either unproductive or give
a very poor return. A gross revenue of, say,
£22,000 a year from properties, plant,
mains, etc., which stand in at over £136.000
(cost) could only be regarded as satisfac-
tory if the revenue was growing. And
unfortunately it isn’t. It is only the total
outlay on plant, etc., that is growing.
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane) :—•
_ , Dividends and Added to Re-
-1 eb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves
1906. . £25,697 224 p.c. = £24,500 £1,197 £76,693
1907.. 25,350 20 „„ 21,000 4,350 81,043
1908.. 25.223 20 „,, 21,000 4,223 85 266
1909.. 25,572 20 „„ 21,000 4,572 89,’838
1910.. 27,215 20 „ „ 21,000 6,215 96,053
1911.. 24,701 20 „ „ 21,000 3,701 99,754
1912.. 24,630 20 „,, 21,000 .3,630 103,384
Premiums on new shares . . 11,111 114 495
1913.. 22,516 111 „„ 14,138 8,378 122,’873
1914.. 25,114 124 „„ 17,457 7,657 130 530
1915.. 23,967 12| „ „ 17,495 6,472 137,002
£133,333 transferred to capital . . 3.669
1916.. 22,426 6 p.c. = 16,977 5,449 9,118
This table has been recast since Perkins and
Co., Ltd., was last overhauled; and a pro-
logue is therefore necessary. In the chv<s
when Queensland had a glorious financial
drunk, Perkins’s got drunk with the rest
of them ; and when it woke up in the entte •
with the debris of the busted boom all around
it, it said in its sorrow that it wasn’t worth
more than £58,333 altogether, and the capital
of the practically-new concern was fixed at
that. Of course things weren’t as bad as it
thought, and presently, as values recovered
and sales of old securities were made
£41.667 was transferred from reserves to
capital. That carried the latter to £lOO 000
at which it stood when the first slice was
served up on the foregoing table.
There had meanwhile been no re-valuation
of tIA assets, and the profits on the much
under-capitalised concern were very gor-
geous. Yet they could not do everything
In the awful days that followed the bursting
of the boom no work to speak of was done at
and about the brewery; consequently the un-
divided profits were not sufficient to meet
the rapidly-growing needs of the co Tn
1012, Therefore, 33,333 shares (they are all
15s. shares) were issued at a ss. premium
At about this time the directors seem to have
realised that they had been paying away far
too much* of the profits, as indeed they had
been, and the total amount cut up in divi-
dends was reduced. Even then the rate of
dividend was 121 p.c. Next, presumably on
the < ground that it is sometimes advisable
to increase the capital as the net assets
increase, so that the rate of dividend may
not look excessive, the capital was doubled
by transfer from reserves. There are thus
now 355,556 shares of 15s. each = £266,667.
The year’s 6 p.c. on that amounts to £l6*ooo
and what the co. will have to pay in taxa-
tion on profits isn’t yet known.' For the
first half the co. paid a dividend at the rate
of 6 p.c. p.a., and that cost with tax £S4SB-
- the rough-and-ready method of doubling
it has been adopted. But that isn’t enough.
For the previous year extra charges
amounted to £2105. On the other hand
while something will thus have to come off
the £22.426 of profit shown above, it is a
fair thing to note* that already the total has
been diminished b# a special £3OOO set aside
for other contingencies, and £7865 has also
been written off against depreciation.
The co. is steadily creeping back into debt,
apparently through financing customers; and
that no doubt is partly the result of keener
competition. Figures:—
1900. 1910. 1915. 1910.
Liabilities . . £12,492 £25.622 £09,772 £81,442
Freeholds, plant, etc. 64,679 108,957 172,180 106 950
Stocks . . . . 32,301 41,738 68,245 58*472
Loans, book debts,
etc 31,324 71,364 99,346 131,746
Cash balances .. 5,934 10,118 13,026 8,547
Advances, etc., have jumped during the
year; and this is just the time when trouble
may be planted. For, though the wowser
doesn’t wowse so furiously in Queensland as
in most places, a non-wowsing party which
has no love for Bung is very strong; and.
besides, there is brewery competition in
Queensland which Perkins can’t disregard,
though it was at one time very much inclined
to.
* * * *
The Foster Brewing Co. (Melbourne):
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
July, 1909 .. £556 5 p.c. =£1440 —£51,787
Jan., 1910 . . 2,328 5 „ „ 1440 £BBB 52,675
July, 1910 .. 6,191 8 ~ ~ 2304 3887 56,562
Jan., 1911 .. 2,507 8 ~ ~ 2304 203 56,765
July, 1911 .. 2,748 8 „ „ 2304 444 57,209
Jan., 1912 .. 10,065 33 „ „ 9504 561 57,770
July, 1912 .. 2,755 8 „ „ 2304 451 58,221
Jan., 1913 2,792 8 „ ~ 2304 488 58,709
Written off Freeholds, £36,591 .. 22,118
July, 1913 .. 2,366 8 p.c. = 2304 62 22,180
Jan., 1914 .. 2,588 8 „ „ 2304 284 22,464
July, 1914 .. 2,955 8 „ „ 2304 651 23,115
Jan., 1915 .. 3,011 10 „ „ 2880 131 23,246
July, 1915 .. 2,764 10 „ „ 2880 23,130
Jan., 1916 .. 2,299 8 „ „ 2304 23,125
This co. is in the Combine (Carlton and
I nited Breweries, Ltd.), and draws practi-
cally all its revenue out of that barrel
Last half-year’s income totalled £2432, of
which £2302 came from the Combine shares.
But the Combine, which had for some time
been paying S p.c. p.a., came back to 6 p.c.
p.a. for • half-year; and that has cap-
sized this Co.’s pot. Even its reduced 8 p.c.
isn’t quite earned. Apart from the
C. & TT.B. shares, the co. owns only £6904
of sundries (net), about half of it balances
owing on properties sold.
* * * *
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary tureCapital (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Loss on Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Business, dends. Assets).
1904. . £360,000 £214,866 £4,703 Nil £179,696
Profit.
1905.. 360,000 214,668 3,828 Nil 175,868
1906.. 360,000 210,546 9,191 Nil 166,677
Capital written off, £65,000 .. 101,677
1907.. 295,000 205,257 10,671 £8,750 99,756
1908.. 295,000 205,175 1,297 Nil 98,459
1909.. 295,000 205,109 6,090 Nil 92,369
Unexplained reserves, £lB3O .. 90,539
1910.. 295,000 193,318 6,198 4,375 88,716
1911.. 295,000 190,711 6,081 4,375 87,010
1912.. 295,000 183,718 10,811 4,375 80.574
1913.. 295,000 190,714 10,195 18,687 89,066
Loss.
1914.. 295,000 191,172 7,261 Nil 96,327
1915.. 295,000 198,099 1,960 Nil 98,287
Private Enterprise can’t always do the
thing better. We have been talking a let
lately about the luscious cut that somebody
—it isn’t possible to say whom—was going
to get out of the nationalisation of the
petrol business in N. S. Wales. Well, what
about the cut that somebody took in connec-
tion with the Emu Bay railway? In return
for next to nothing at all the promoters
grabbed 100,000 shares; and that over-
capitalisation. hitched on to sinful miscalcu-
lations, drove the co. to raise money on
debentures and otherwise. Of course it
was all miscalculation. The Tasmanian
West Coast boom was one of the wickedest
every fed by the daily papers in Australia;
and this railway co. was . one of the by-


11111111 HI 111U11111111111 n 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 ill 111 mi 111111 1 ' 1 1111 jJ''' ' ll W' ll 11' 1 ' 1 ' 1 ' 1 '''' " I ' l ' lll ' i • < i in 11 m i n 11
•pin ‘-on pu« asno\ijSui*s3/Y\ ysijufl 3MJL
. i m mu min 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111II11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111II11IU > 1111111111
Westmghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
Pretinpljmigf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works: Trafford Park. Manchester. England.
“Difficulties were made to be overcome,” and cer-
tain it is that “Chromol” leather belting will over-
come all your power difficulties, it will transmit
maximum power under all conditions, and will prove
itself a profit-earner wherever it is used. Capable
of resisting heat and moisture, it is practically proof
against deterioration. Durable, strong, pliable and
efficient, it is daily proving its merit on the heaviest
and most important drives in the largest mining
plants in the Commonwealth. Equally efficient as a
conveyor or driving-belt. J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
“Pioneer Leather Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney
(opp. Queen Victoria Markets). Inter-State Agents:
Geo. Russell P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne,
Victoria ; J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide,
S.A. ; Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth, W.A. ;
Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane, Q. ; Broken
Hill: Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street. —Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRTC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.—Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stoneerusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. —Advt. [2:
* * * *
Colonial Mutual Life Office. —“Summarising
the annual report and actuarial investigation in a
general way, one is bound to admit that the figures
give cause for unbounded satisfaction and congratu-
lation, not only to the directors and management,
but to the members also. They have the pleasure of
realising that shrewd and capable administration
is evinced in every feature.”—Advt. [6
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 190,CC.0 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) —Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? Tf
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
The celebrated “Leplastrier” road-graders are most
suitable for Australian ‘conditions. Prices range
from L 25 upwards. Full particulars from the Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane.- —Advt.
* * * *
The Australian Amicable Assurance Associa-
tion Limited.—This company continues to make
solid progress—accepting only gilt-edged insurances.
The premium income for the first four months of the
present financial year was considerably greater than
the income for the first 10 months of last year. The
income for March, 1916, alone exceeded the income
for the first four months of last year. Although
three times the business is being written, expenses
are being greatly reduced.—Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock-
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent'
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading-
mines in Australia.—Advt.
* * * »
IDEAS.—-Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O'Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. —Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th < 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,001)
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ~ ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. * ~ i -~i
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge'!
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
products. It never had a hope and it never
will have one unless a miracle happens.
Chairman Grice said at the annual meeting :
We do not anticipate the current year will show
any increase in revenue, but if a certain co. exer-
cises its option over some of the mines in the
Rosebery district we may hope that within a reason-
able time things will improve with us. We have
been so often disappointed that it does not become
me to say more than this, which is sufficient to
suggest to you that the district and its prospects may
be worth watching.
But the bulk of the shareholders are miles
and miles from a dividend. The table shows
that there have been some distributions, but
they were only accrued dividends on the
cumulative pref. shares. There are 260.000
ordinaries and 100,000 prefs.; the latter
carry 4 p.c. cumulative and a further 4 p.c.
nun-cumulative. There is now £BOOO owing
on these shares. Further there are these
liabilities: —
Debentures .. .. •• .• £172,000
Deferred rent .. • • . • 7,000
Dividends (funded and deferred) .. 15,372
Deferred debenture interest ~ 6,256
Miscellaneous .. .. >, 8,153
The funded deferred dividends are supposed
to be paid off at the rate of £5OO a year.
The deferred rent hints at another drag. The
co. doesn’t own all its line, but relieved the
Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Co. of part
of its dead-horse on a lease: last year only
£BOOO was actually paid out of £lO,OOO
payable on this account. * The debentures
are payable in 1924. Or the co. may re-buy
them up any time now at £110; but this
paper wouldn’t advise any holder to pur-
chase an earldom on the strength of his
chances.
Permewan, Weight and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere: —
Written To Re- De-
Jan Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, flcit.
1906 ..£1566 Nil £1022 —£11,086
1 Net Profit.
1907 .. 5364 Nil 308 £5056 6,030
r Plant apparently written
I down .. .. 6371 12,401
I Reserves.
1908 7 £12,500 capital written off .. 99
Profit.
1 6731 6 p.c. = £3OOO 3731 3,830
1909 .. 1797 5 ,j „ 2500 3,127
1910 . . 3532 5 „ „ 2500 1032 4,159
19l'l . . 5562 6 „ „ 3000 2562 6,721
1912 .. 5594 6 „ „ 3000 2594 9,315
1913 .. 7689 6 „ „ 3000 4689 14,004
1914 .. 9340 8 „ „ 4000 5340 19,344
1915 .. 5510 7 „ „ 3500 2010 21,354
1916 .. 3804 7 ~ „ 3500 304 21,658
This co. carries on a back-country business,
chiefly in Victoria and western and sou’-
western N. S. Wales, and all those parts
have been afflicted during the year with
something we can’t blame the Kaiser for.
Three white-ants got to work to make holes
in the profits—(l) the drought shrivelled up
the wool-crop, and that meant less loading
for P. W. & Co.; (2) the drought made it
cost more to fill the nose-bags; (3) wages
have been steadily climbing. On the whole,
tlie co. did fairly well to make even its 7 p.c.
As usual, liabilities are rather heavy, the
result of trading chiefly with people who get
a cheque only once a year—and this year
some of them, the wheat-farmers, have thus
far got only half a cheque. Here are the
balance-sheet figures :—•
1901. 1910. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities . .£28,014 £30,781 £40,184 £47,218 £41,855
Assets —-
P.l a r, t and
property 47,358 38,870 49,682 49,791 46,284
Book debts 48,981 34,990 41,413 43,903 45,355
Merchandise 9,270 10,537 17,828 24,331 20,496
Miscellaneous 2,107 3,044 3,106 2,546 3,378
The plant part of the composite item men-
tioned above is valued at £29,733. This
includes river steamers ; and on these as well
as the wheeled plant there is heavy deprecia-
tion whether the season is good or bad. Last
year they wrote off £4006 for wear and tear,
besides spending over £lBOO on renewals.
Still, there’s fine money in the business ; but
it’s a pretty difficult one to control, and
organisation counts for almost everything.
For that reason the goodwill is worth very
little, profits being good so long only as the
management is good.
* * V * *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, 1908 ..£3413 10 p.c. =£3375 £3B £65,639
Jan., 1909 .. 4019 10 „ „ 3375 644 66,283
July, 1909 .. 2319 10 „ „ 3375 65,227
Jan., 1910 .. 4425 10 „ „ 3375 1050 66,277
July, 1910 .. 3304 10 „ „ 3375 66,206
Jan., 1911 .. 4586 12 „ „ 4050 536 66,742
July, 1911 .. 3473 12 „ „ 4050 66,165
Jan., 1912 .. 4642 12 „ „ 4050 592 66,757
July, 1912 .. 3466 12 „ ~ 4050 66,173
Jan., 1913 .. 5520 12 „ „ 4050 1470 67,643
July, 1913 . . 4730 12 „ „ 4050 680 68,323
Jan., 1914 .. 5247 12 „ „ 4050 1197 69,520
July, 1914 .. 4484 12 „ „ 4050 434 69,954
Jan., 1915 .. 4522 12 „ „ 4050 472 70,426
July, 1915 .. 4263 12 „ „ 4050 213 70,639
Jan., 1916 .. 4184 12 „ „ 4050 134 70,773
Dearer coal seems to have been mainly
responsible for the recent shrinkage in
profits; and there will be some relief in that
respect by-and-bye. Though the profits
show very little margin over the dividend,
the position is probably quite as good as it
seems to be from the figures-—may be a bit
better, because besides paying for all main-
tenance, £lOOO a half-year is written off
works. This shows the case from another
angle:—•
Jan., 1906. July, 1915. Jan., 1916.
Liquid assets ..£19,602 £20,542 £19,303
Liabilities.. .. 1,029 4,273 4,965
Surplus ..£18,573 £16,269 £14,338
Now that looks as though the co. had barely
held its own; but meantime there has been
a fairly solid increase of about one-third in
the output, as well as in the profit balance
on working account, indicating a consider-
able outlay on plant, etc. For instance,
"the policy initiated two years ago of install-
ing a free light and griller in houses where
gas has not previously been used has been
continued,” and, though about £B5OO has
been spent in this way, “the returns to hand
indicate that a satisfactory revenue will be
derived from this source.” The co. is thus
alive, anyway. But shareholders can thank
their stars that they more than doubled
their profit-earning assets out of revenue
prior to electric competition, otherwise there
certainly wouldn’t be any 12 p.c. divs,
to-day. dt
* * * *
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd., which is
the coal-mining or most of the coal-mining
end of the Howard Smith business
Net Dividends.
Pro-, a To Re . Re .
fits. 8 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ £
- 33,097
1914.. 79,721 20,200 8 p.c.= 47,328 12,193 45,290
1915. .101,831 20,200 10 „ ~60,001 21,630 66,920
(7 p.c.).
1916.. 52,769 17,675 7 ~,,42,000 60,014
This is a reconstruction of the Caledonian
Coal Co., a Scotch concern which owned the
West Wallsend, West Wallsend Extended,
Waratah, Aberdare and Aberdare Extended
collieries at Newcastle (N.S.W.). Howard
Smith’s were managing agents for the
Scotchmen, and gradually bought up all their
shares. To complete the absorption it
formed a new co., the Caledonian Collieries,
Ltd., and issued in all 100,000 shares to its
own (Howard Smith) shareholders, half at
par, half at Is. premium. The capital is
in 252,500 cumulative pref. shares, of which
the Howard Smith shareholders individually
took 100,000, and 600,007 ordinaries, which
the Howard Smith Co. took itself. The first
year’s profits bore all the preliminary exes.;
and when that is remembered and the second
year’s figures are also taken into account,
the past year’s profits look sick. The pref.
shares are entitled to a first bite of 6 p.c.
(cumulative), with a right to an additional
2 p.c. if it is available. They this year get
only an additional 1 p.c.; and although
ordinaries are reduced also to 7 p.c., the pay-
ments call for a substantial slice out of the
reserves. But it isn’t necessary to take a
gloomy view of the prospects. The coal
trade was very much disturbed last year and
is even more so this year; but the adverse
conditions will pass. The co. handles a line
of goods whose ultimate market is quite sure.
It doesn’t depend on the uncertain politician
for Protection; on the other hand, anything
the politician may do to help other industries
will be to the good also of this coal business.
The capital is certainly very massive, but the
mines are very extensive ; and behind that
there is the Howard Smith marketing con-
nection and the whole Howard Smith money-
making machine. Through Australian Steam-
ships, Ltd., it enables the co. to reach a
market, and there are few lines in which it
is easier for the producers or their middle-
men to arrive at an “understanding.” In
spite of _ the reduction in the year’s divi-
dends, it thus smells very fat. You can shut
your eyes and fancy it was the morning
rasher frying.
In N.S.W. Equity Court last week Jus-
tice Harvey held a school for the instruction
of directors. The long judgment in the
action brought against the Board of the
Mt. Oxide was the lesson, and the bad boys
who got detention were Gould (the chair-
man), Bacon, “Jerry” Allen (late of Towns-
ville), and Birkbeck. The Judge told them
that they had been guilty of gross negligence,
insofar that they had allowed Earle
Herman to run the whole show and handle
£20,000 which they should have had, and he
ordered them to pay £20,000 to the co.
Incidentally he said things which didn’t
sound well —especially of Gould and to a
less extent of Allen. And as to all of them
he said that they met, fixed their fees (very
liberal ones), and then allowed Herman
to do just about what he liked. Put it down
—as to the majority of them, anyhow—to
simple greed.
* * * *
“Veritas”: I was present a few years ago
at a N. S. Wales mine that carries ,2oz. of
gold to the ton in a handy-sized body of
stone. It was owned by a party of four, and
they had a compact pumping plant. The
mine is on the North Coast. A mine in-
spector arrived. He asked: “Has that boiler
been tested?” “Yes, three weeks ago by a
B.Sc. of Sydney University.” Inspector:
“Oh, that won’t do; it must be tested by
a licensed inspector of the Mines Office.”
One of the owners: “There is none avail-
able.” The mine inspector: “Yes, there is
one at Cobar. But you will have to pay his
exes. If he can’t come you must find out
where there is one, and make the best bar-
gain you can with him.” Theu he turned to
the engine-driver and said: “Have you a
driyer’s certificate?” “No.” “Then you
must not drive the engine any further. You’ll
be fined £2O if you do.” Engine-driver:
“Where am I to get it?” Inspector: “There
may be a Board in Grafton in a couple of
months; if not there may be one in Armi-
dale or Glen Innes. Yon will have to find
out and attend. The fees are £1 for exami-
nation and £1 for the certificate.” Engine-
driver : “That means with travelling ex-
penses and loss of time over £lO. No
chance ! I can go to a butter factory or saw-
mill and get work at once and pay no fee.”
The machinery hasn’t turned a wheel since,
but lies rusting at the mine, and that is one
of many similar cases. This inspection is
ostensibly done to protect lives. It is really
done to levy a species of blackmail. If the
department was sincere, why are not in-
spector appointed who are competent to do
both tlie testing and the examination?
jj; * * * *
The Victorian owners of the Golden
Horseshoe, formerly Mt. Gossan. Oberon
(N.5.W.),. are going to give the mine
another trial, and a manager has arrived to
take charge. Their previous attempt, in
which ore from shallow depths was raised
and crushed, was about as discouraging as
the results of previous attacks on the pro-
perty by former proprietaries, and after one
clean-up it lapsed into somnolence for sev-
eral months. Now a bit more mining and
less crushing is to be indulged in—a sounder
policy. They may achieve the improbable
and strike a bonanza, and if they do they
will deserve it.
* * » *
Geologist Whitelaw was lately put on the
job of advising if Bendigo has a hope over
the. Paddy’s Gully line. He says it has. To
arrive at that conclusion the work done in
crosscuts from the Moon and Garden Gully
lines has to be disremembered, as these have
all run into poor stuff. Whitelaw attributes
that to the absence of the faulting that put
gold into the spurs and shoots on the Moon
line. To get these faults deeper sinking
will have to be done, and he wants the
gamble to be carried on from the east shaft
of the Clarence. If Bendigo wasn’t so hard
up Whitelaw wouldn’t have to speak twice,
but the job will be to get the old crowd to
face the double of Justice, Powers’s wages
and the risk that even shpjild the fault zone
be got the gold solutions quiay not have
travelled that way.
* * * »
“Bob” Turner’s latest fancy since Eode
Hill went wrong is Riverina South (W.A.).
Shares sparkled up in Melbourne last week
because a seven-and-sixpenny option over
80Q0 shares had been exercised after Trea-
surer Higgs had sanctioned the deal. Now
J. Bromley is on his way to the mine to
discuss what is called a policy of develop-
ment. This oughtn’t to be a tough job if
assays count, for off the north shaft at 200 ft.
60s. stuff is reported, while at 400 ft. the
underlie winze is yielding 2505. dirt. After
that it is a come-down to read that the bat-
tery had treated 80 tons and got out a 455.
average. The danger about the Riverina
South is that the blanks may pinch the pay
shoots. So it is well to keep a sharp eye
on little developments of that nature.
* * * *
Westralia is appointing 12 workmen
inspectors under the Amended Mining Act,
but only two —at Ivalgoorlie and Boulder —■
will be employed full time. The remaining
10 will work anything from three to six
days a month. Much closer supervision of
the mines and a reduction in casualties is
expected as a result.
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) has, by virtue of
the high price of tin, come back to the divi-
dend-paying list after an absence of over
two years. This time it’s only 2s. Od. per
share, as against 10s. per share per month
before the war. Total dividends paid up to
present run to £2,347,500, equal to £lO5
12s. 6d. per share.
If Hugh Mahon hadn’t laid Ms hands on
the shoulder of the Mount Lyell Board the
other day, the Bowes Kelly party might have
got to Queenstown in time to see the second
strike of bornite at the Lyell Blocks. The
ore is nice-looking, but the nasty question is
whether North Lyell borings have, as is
whispered, got into adverse country at such
a depth below the Blocks’ north level as to
account for little Sticht’s smile when he is
asked how long it will be before he swaps
jobs. His North Lyell mine has a fine show
of ore at 1200 ft., and with the pitch of the
shoots into the Comstock there must be a
big reserve for the old co. to eome and
go on, even if the Blocks does get
the long-talked-of sniff of bornite. Sticht’s
staff is enjoying itself over flotation and sul-
phur experiments, but results are as much a
Board-room secret as whether the Broken
Hill tests of the Ilercules-Rosebery ore reach
the top-notch that rumor alleges.
* * * *
South Mt. Cameron (Tas.) has been sell-
ing stream tin on a rising market, and the
financial position has been so improved that
the quarterly div. has been increased to 6d.
Last half-year included a disastrous flood,
but after allowing for the cost of repairs the
half-year’s profit was at the rate of £4O per
ton of black tin, and as this little concern
has only 48,000 shares a sixpenny can be
paid with £l2OO.
* * * *
The mostly-Sydney crowd which sent a
couple of engineers across to Bolivia to look
at a big tin proposition seem to have struck
something exceptional. As far as it has been
sampled it shows 81b. to the yard. But the
price payable is big, the necessary installa-
tion expensive and working costs heavy, so
there is something more to be found out
than the mere poundage per yard.


Heerinsfs
Est 1818.
Copenfiapen
/
a *
® HEERIItfi*
OOWSMSS
P ELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
STOMACH MEDICINES ARE
DANGEROUS.
DOCTORS NOW ADVISE MAGNESIA.
Just how dangerous it is to indiscrimi-
nately dose the stomach with drugs and
medicines is often not realised until too late.
It seems so simple to swallow a dose of some
special mixture or to take tablets of some
so-called remedy or other after meals, and
the folly of this drugging is not apparent
until perhaps years afterwards. Regrets are
then unavailing. It is in the early stages,
when indigestion, dyspepsia, heartburn, flatu-
lence, etc., indicates excessive acidity of the
stomach and fermentation of the food con-
tents, that precaution should be taken.
Drugs and medicines are unsuitable and often
dangerous—they have as a rule little or no
influence upon the harmful acid, and that is
why doctors are discarding them and advis-
ing sufferers from digestive and stomach
trouble to get rid of the dangex-ous acid and
keep the food contents bland and sweet by
taking a little bisurated magnesia instead.
Bisurated magnesia is an approved antacid,
which can readily be obtained from the
chemist. It is practically tasteless, and
half a teaspoonful taken in a little warm or
cold water after meals will usually be found
quite sufficient to instantly neutralise exces-
sive acidity of the stomach and prevent all
possibility of the food fermenting.— Advt.
PAULINE et CIE
(MILLINERY, ROBES, BLOUSES, Etc.)
ANNOUNCE
Their First Show of Millinery Models for
Autumn s>nd Winter Wear, on and atte
Wednesday, Ist March.
3rd Floor, Denison House, Georgy St.
onn. David Jones'.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 17, 1910.
My Dear A junk —
Lists of those who lunch and dine (the
latter supposed to be all-wool) at Admiralty
Mouse revive the heart-burnings that a
new G.-G.’s staff invariably inflicts on
Sassiety. Keen competition to be a diner
rather than a lunclier, and the desire to
teach Aides Kerr-Pearse and his mate who’s
who, fill the thoughts of many of our Nicest.
Still, the Fergusons haven’t, so far as one
knows, asked for the pleasure of the com-
pany of the long dead, as did one Admiral’s
brilliant young gentleman.
Over the way, Balmain’s washing fluttered
like hunting in the breeze as her Ex. stepped
out of the petrol-chaise at the Free Kinder-
garten. It’s a brand-new building in the
bungalow stvle, with casement windows
a hi doll's house. “The Phoenix” rises not
on the ashes of the North Sydney Kinder-
garten (squeezed out by a State school), but
in place of it. Some of the committee on
the other side of the Harbor transferred their
labors to Balmain. Now they’re prepared to
give over to the local helpers.
The Ferguson lady, greeted with the usual
chorus of thanksgiving and a big posy of
roses, made a few fluent remarks about the
Good Works of those who toil in mean
streets. Then Mrs. C-ocks, of the North
Sydney committee, gripped the audience with
her story of the work in hand. One of this
committee —w T ho refuses to be mentioned by
name—lent £lOOO free of interest for 10
rears. With this and a bit more to go with
it, land was bought and the handsome, airy
nest built. Out of their little the babies’
mothers (they do things generously in Bal-
main) handed their contribution to the
building fund. John Mackay read the les-
sons—l mean the financial statement. Mrs.
Bob Anderson, one of the pillars of the
Northern Subbubs Kindergarten efforts, sat
in the council seats; and Mahony, M.H.R.,
handed flowers of speech to the constituency
he represents.
The first Australian to get a decoration
from the Czar for naval work is a New-
castle man. Leslie Hatherly. He has been
mine sweeping in Russian waters and
now- wears the order of St. Stan-
islaus. This is considered a topnotch tag
that doesn’t come down in showers like our
prolific C.M.G.
Victoria’s sub-regal Stanleys didn’t arrive
to schedule last week, because they couldn’t
fit their engagements to the original date —
April 15. Besides, there’s a visit to the
Newcastle steel works which can now be
included with the Easter bun.
Rider Haggard is giving Sydney four days
this week. I hope he won’t feel dyspeptic
after the rush of food. The official list of
meals is as long as a toasting-fork, and the
Journalists’ Institute hopes to catch the
visitor for lunch before he trains for Queens-
land.
George Marlow gave a tea-party on the
Adelphi stage to welcome Allan Wilkie Ham-
let. The invited company poured in so
fast that it became tightly jamhed in the
wings and finally wormed its way through
bulwarks of ham sandwiches on trestles.
The Stage Hero is a pleasant-looking Scot,
with a melodious speaking voice. There were
speeches and eountei'-speeches. Also a recita-
tion (“Misunderstood,” to slow music) and
some mixed singing. Finally the cake-tray
passed i*ound, and Mrs. Ophelia Wilkie,
otherwise Frediswyde Hunter-Watts, was
introduced.
There’s a tearful little woman in Sydney
who doesn’t know where she is. Some years
ago she married a citizen of the U-nited
States, and thereby, though she had never
been out of Australia, became a citizen of
the U-nited States too —according to British
law. Presently, however, she divorced the
Murkan citizen; then, to make no doubt
about her freedom, he died. Now she wants
to go to England—wants to go badly. Of
course she must get a passport. “Go to
your Consul,” the Commonwealth people
tell her. “My Consul?” “Yes, the Consul
for the U-nited States.” But the Consul for
the U-nited States won’t own her. “You’re
not a citizen of the U-nited States under our
law. madam. Pass right out!” And so she
passes right out, a nice young w T idow-in-law
whom no one will own.
Dick Suttor, a son of the late Francis,
M.L.C., led a pretty bride to breakfast the
other morning. She’s Helen Langtree,
daughter of the Campbell Langtrees. of
Greenoaks, Darling Point. Father being
absent from Sydney, his dainty girl was
handed over to the new husband by a
brother. The bridal frock was in the short-
skirt style (we’ll show our knees like High-
landers before long), of white foamy drapery.
The habit of lending bridal veils prevails,
so the Brussels net overall was on loan from
Mi's. Rodney Dangar. A sheaf of white
lilies was a final beauty touch. Chief
bridesmaid sister Mary was in snow white,
with a puff of black tulle millinery on her
head. Of course pink had to come in some-
where, so a blush rose nodded in bridesmaid
Mary’s hat. By way of a change from the
usual hotel feast, the toasts were drunk (in
afternoon tea) at Greenoaks. The bride has
been a busy Red Cross worker, so the hive
sent a swarm of its bees to buzz congratula-
tions at the church door.
The pretty widow of Dr. Critchley Hinder
went off with Mr. Bob Holloway, a Queens-
land man, the other day. The late Dr.
Hinder —one of the best —married in course
of time two sisters, Ethel _ and Enid
Pockley. The younger, Enid, is the hand-
some bride of last week. A brother, Dr.
Eric, gave his sister away. The wedding
was a quiet one, and the friends and relatives
nibbled the cake at a tea-party in a Mosman
rectory.
The English girl continues to collect Aus-
tralian war samples. Jack Ainslie, formerly
of Launceston (Tas.), and now a Captain
in the Scottish Borderers, has joined the
throng. He was wed in the Drizzle a few
weeks ago. The bride, Jean Stewart-Wilson,
is the only chick of a Hants magnate, _ Sir
Charles Stewart-Wilson. However, it isn’t
all one-sided. On the same date a Tas-
manian girl captured Captain Henry Lees,
of the Royal Engineers. Her name was
Dorothy Hughes before she got change for
half of it.
A Lewisham man, Willie McKenzie, of
Chevy Chase, has been married to Myra, a
daughter of the late Dr. Rendell, of Bris-
bane. The bride was recently the only
woman dentist in Townsville, so the
McKenzie’s teeth will have an expert adviser
on the premises.
The Phil. Society drew a full house to
listen to the complaints of “Elijah.” News
that the G.-G.’s party was to give the
prophet its Presence heartened up that small
section of our Best People who drag their
way to an occasional oratorio. The vice-
regal people were starred in the Eastern
Gallery, to the disgust of the suburbs, which
haven’t seen anything of consequence in
diamonds for months an’ months. Presi-
dent Backhouse’s cherubic pink countenance
beamed over his best bib as he led the
Welcome deputation to the foot of the
throne. Hon. sec. Herbert Marriner and
other Philharmonics were also in waiting.
Then the performers got to work. Con-
ductor Bradley leapt from side to side of his
cage, and made wild gyrations with his arms
as the chorus warmed to its business. These
gymnastics calmed down —thank goodness !
—when the silvery tones of the Widow (Mary
Conly) kept Elijah up to the mark. Our
chief oratorio artist was in magnificent voice
and scored every time. Ella Caspers had
the pleasing r6le of a slim Angel with a rich
contralto. Percy French, Arthur Appleby
and Miss Rouxel were other principals.
From this recent
photo, of poor Ilil-
der you will see
how cruelly young
he was when he
died —it happened
just as I was clos-
ing my last week’s
letter. Indeed, he
had scarcely been
discovered before
we knew that he
must go. He
couldn’t reconcile
himself to it, and
melancholy sat
heavily upon him
at times. Still, he
lived long enough
to know that his
delightful work was
appreciated, and
his brush was never
allowed to rest so
long as he could
lift it to the can-
vas.
Hilder —Jesse Jewhurst Hilder —made a
surprising first appearance at the Society of
Artists’ exhibition in 1903. Before the show
was opened several of his water-colors had
been bought by fellow artists who recognised
their unique charm. Within a week or so
the w T hole of his panel of 20-odd pictures had
been sold. It was obvious that Hilder was
not a first-class draughtsman. He had had no
training at all, but drifted into painting by
irresistible impulse while a bank-clerk in
Queensland. Born at Toowoomba in 1881,
he went into a bank after leaving school.
When he came to Sydney Fred Leist saw his
work, and sent him along to Julian Ashton,
who gave the youth praise (of which Julian
is a niggard) and practical encouragement.
It was iioi long after this first exhibition
that Hilder’s health became bad. He bad to
leave the cashbooks and ledgers and l lve
the highlands near Hornsby, where he
painted better and ever better. Probably no
Australian-born artist had so exquisite a
color sense. “Jewels’’ is a term cheapened by
ignoble use, yet there is nothing that ex-
presses more accurately the quality ot
Hilder’s small landscapes m watercolor.
In the end the cloud lowered very quickly.
“If this rain clears off and the weather is
fine on Monday,” he said four days before
he died, “I'm going over the mountains to
do some good work.” When Monday came
it was fine. But the artist had gone ovei
the mountains already.
Governor Strickland was entrenched
behind the water-jug at Prince Alfred Hos-
pital’s annual rally. Prof. Andy Stuart
had rather a doleful tale to tell of the house-
keeping. Meat, as Mrs. Smithbrown knows,
is soaring into realms unknowm. Drugs.'
Well, ask for aspirin or its British-Aus-
tralian substitute and see how much cotton-
wool they’ll sell you for 2s. 9d.
And here’s another blow ! Alfred —d you
remember who Alfred was? A Hun, no less!
So the P.A.H. people suggest a cumbersome
change to “Royal George and Mary Hos-
pital.” Yet there was a George who came
from Hanover and didn’t play the game as
well even as remote Alfred did.
There’s no ground for saying that old
pioneer Kable, who died at Bathurst the other
day, didn’t do his duty. Married in the old
church at Windsor 66 years ago, his wife
survives him, and gets comfort from a brood
which has numbered 11 children, and (skip-
ping over their children) 85 of the generation
beyond that again. The original Kable, you
remember —grandpa of John Henry just dead
—was the man who is supposed to have kept
Governor Phillip from wetting hte stockings
when he first landed at Sydney Cove.
The Polish Relief ladies are going to have
a stall in the Industrial Pavilion at the
Show. Miss Czaykowska, the lion, sec., is
fixing up the details of the Polish peasants’
toggery, which the lady-helps going to
wear. The depot for Baby Kosciusko’s
lingerie, 5 Hamilton-street, closes from April
20 over the Easter holidays.
The Arts and Crafts have an Easter sale
in Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street. The
show r —there is no gate money—opens on
April 25.
Amongst the dream-visions of a great war
is the Australian girl spinning wool from
the backs of her own sheep. Secretary
Somer has said “I will” to the request of the
yarn-spinning Jennies for space at the big
Easter Carnival. As you may remember: —
Mary had a little lamb,
Its fleece was white as snow;
She robs her pet to make Bill’s socks,
And spins it at the Show.
The 20th battalion and the Flying Corps
committees are having a dash for the purse
this week. The affair has been coming to a
head for a couple of months. Carefully-laid
baits lurk in waiting at Ascham —the leafy
retreat that used to belong to the late John
Marks, M.L.C. Excellency Helen unleashes
the hounds on April 20.
A struggle to capture the G.-G.’s lady for
everything from a socks’ inspection to a
political dames’ bun-fight still goes on. The
National Council successfully rounded up the
Visitor at its rally in the precincts of the
Women’s Club; and the peri at the portal
helped to sort out the elect from the —the
others.
Amongst the lesser horrors of war is the
type of literature the Turk gives his cap-
tives. Otherwise he treats them so decently
that one Australian —Lieut. Luscombe, of
the 14th Battalion —can think of nothing
else to complain about. They gave him “the
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire”
and “Queen Victoria’s Letters” —the poor,
dull old soul! —to cheer his spirits. How-
ever, it’s all over now, and Luscombe was
somewhere in Asia Minor when last heard
from.
Sister Susie’s Circle at the Town Hall is
putting the covers on its machines during
the Easter holidays.
The matinee at Her Majesty’s for Anzac
Day brought about £440 to the till. The
J.C.W. people pay the exes., and thus leave
the takings clear. Julius Knight got the
Niagara skipper to tether the craft to the
wharf for a few minutes while he did his bit
in “The Sacrament of Judas.” No one
expected Julius to start so early in the pro-
gramme ; but as Judas pulled the curtain
up, Julius was en route for Auckland before
the audience had finished fumbling for its
opera glasses. Gladys Moncrieff, Dorothy
Brunton and Field Fisher were strong items
in a generous programme. Connie Ediss,
who dances like a well-stuffed feather bolster,
had the “So Long. Letty” ballet to back up
her more or less musical efforts.
On April 22 the 86th (Riflemen’s) Com-
forts’ Committee gives a sing-song in the
Conservatorium. The cash goes to the socks
and pyjamas fund. Carmichael, M.L.A., now
a lieutenant in this Batallion, gets a send-
off at the same event.
“Jimmie Pannikin”—less well known as
school inspector Donald Fraser—steps in.
He is stirring up the Education Deoartment
to have an Anzac Arbor Day. “Pannikin’*’
wants every good Australian to plant a tree
in an Anzac Avenue in every town
hamlet, said herbage to be, of course „ ,
Australian, too. Around Adelaide
ahead of this idea in some suburbs wher SOt
tree has been planted in front of every hou s !
from which a soldier has gone to the F, nn V
It’s a pretty, sentimental notion, certain!
but the effect is rather straggly. L
Passed i trough Sydney for Yanonm-
Jessie McDonald, a Melbourne lass
is solicitor Hector, and the family inhS
his taste for art. Jessie mav try her if, f
in Boston with black-and-white work lUck
I send you the
latest picture 0 f
artist Fullwood.
The former Sydney
man, you’ll notice,
is in khaki, like so
many other pen-
a nd-brush men, and
has achieved a cor-
pora 1 ’ s stripes.
You’ll notice that
the Frenchified face-
trimmings which
Fullwood affected
some time ago have
been modified by the
call to service.
Isn’t war horrible?
Fullwood is at
No. 3 Hospital,
Wandsworth'.
A former Sydney man, Lieut G. Campion,
left Oxford to buckle on a sword soon after
war started. He is still able to snatch occa-
sional leave from the uproar in France—or
was a few weeks ago.
Cecil Oatley, a Sydney racing man, is now
a lieut. in the R.F.A. Brother Percy threw
in with his mates in the Australian F.A.
Another Sydney man, 11. V. Jaques, a limb
of a well-known tree of Costs, is with the
R.H.A. in England as a gunner.
Artist Mary Stoddart is still in Canada,
where she plods steadily at her easel.
The House of Chateau (it’s the Grosvenor
Hotel, by the way) has given three sons to
the firing line. Clive is a lieut. in the Royal
Fusiliers. He left Sydney as sergeant in
one of the early A.I.F. lots. Later he was
invalided to England ; hence the new jump-
off. Two brothers did their bit in Gallipoli.
A one-time King’s School boy, C. L.
Cardew, lives to tell his friends what it feels
like to be gassed and then blown up by a
suffocating shell. Corporal Cardew met the
gentle enemy in his Borgian moments in
France. They put the bits together in the
Australian Hospital, Wimereux. The amaz-
ing Cornstalk is now well enough to say
“Yes” to a commission in the R.F.A. Car-
dew, senior, used to be chairman of the
Royal Bank of Queensland.
The death of Mrs. Cowlishaw, the fair-
haired lady who used to live in Macleay-
street, occurred in London. She is the
widow of a former Sydney merchant who
had very good cause to remember The
Bulletin.
Another early-closing row! This one is
in musical circles, and rages around
Verbrugghen’s efforts to get an audience
seated to time. Hazon always closed the
Town Hall doors during his chief items. If
Conductor Bradley would take a firm stand
in this same matter, “Elijah” wouldn’t have
been so badly stamped underfoot the other
night. Unfortunately, it is generally the
musical cult, or some of its most abject
admirers, who can be depended on to
add creaking shoe-leather to the begin-
ning of a programme. They never know the
time o’ day.
Beauty specialists will be after Dr. Philip
Jones (he caught a knighthood years ago)
to explain his comparatively youthful
appearance at 80 not out. He is a great
barracker for the Australian climate. Tin 1
spoilt darlings who used to tell him they
were run down (from over-eating and under-
working) and thought of a trip to Europe,
generally got. “Why? The mountains are
much nearer.” He meant our blue Aus-
tralian hills, and takes his own prescription
for at least two months a year. I saw him
climbing up a mountain path a few week'
ago with an ease that shamed the younger
folks who puffed behind.
The egg-shaped coiffure is still holding
its own. Mrs. Spencer Brunton. just back
from England, where she gave daughter Jean
over to Adrian Moreing, brings the latest
with her; and she keeps her brown locks
patted close to her head.
Artist Hayley Lever —he who paints tlm
fishing fleet in all its moods —is still in hew
York. The National Art Club there gave
a recent spree in honor of his work, now
well known in U.S.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
.
t.
Silver-mounted Leather Handkerchief Box.
Size, 6 x 6 x 24in.
£1 1 0
SELECTIONS SENT ON
APPROVAL.
FIVE PER CENT. CASH
niscoUNT.
Leather Collar Box.
Size, 6J x Gi x 3in.
£llO
13
Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
Travelling Requisites
A large and varied selection
of high - grade Leather
Goods always in stock.
Visitors to Sydney are cordi-
ally invited to inspect the
company’s showrooms.
Large Nickel Watch, fitted in
Leather Case, folds flat for travel-
ling. Size, 4 x 4in.
£3 8 0
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATA-
LOG EE FORWARDED POST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRIS3ANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
f
iffy roof
Every Warner’s
Corset is design-
ed for a special
type and will im-
prove the figure
lines without dis-
comfort.
*jfamer’s2?us£-j&vo/(fc
GUARANTEED
not to rust,
break or tear.
The excellent
shaping of these
corsets and the
long wear will
commend them
to every woman.
x/t
i !f a H
) I
; t
M
&
U
SYDNE Y
N. S .W.
LOCATlON—Conveniently situated in Castlereagh Street, a few
doors from King Street, and nearly opposite Theatre Royal.
THE HOTEL CARLTON,
completed at a cost exceeding
£ 100,000, stands pre-eminent as
Australia’s greatest hostelry.
The furnishing, although lav-
ish, is in perfedt taste ; and the
color schemes throughout are
harmonious to the eye and rest-
ful to the nerves.
The bedrooms are unusually
spacious —naturally ventilated,
with hot and cold water service,
and telephones connecting with
the Exchange.
Magnificent lounge, reception,,
reading and writing rooms, pri-
vate dining and reception rooms
for weddings, afternoon teas,
etc.
Special dining accommodation
for children.
The cuisine leaves nothing to
be desired and compares favor-
ably with the leading hotels of
the world.
The Hotel Carlton is abso-
lutely Fireproof, having marble
staircases and concrete floors
throughout !
Another pleasant feature of
the hotel is the flat roofs, from
which panoramic views of Sydney
and Harbor may be obtained.
Visitors to Sydney favoring
this superb hotel, which was
opened for the reception of
guests on March 30, 1916, will
find their comfort and conveni-
ence carefully studied by a
courteous staff under the per-
sonal direction of the manager,
Mr. CHAS.'W. CUPIT.
All letters and telegrams
promptly replied to.
RATES ON APPLICATION TO THE HANAGER.


i
60/=
The
Suit
Carriage
Paid.
Special Value'Victor" Suits
IN INDIGO BLUE SERGE*
Fortunate buying enables us to quote decidedly
ante-war prices in these Rough-finish Blue Serge
Suits. The fabric is admirably suited for town and
country wear, and the dye is guaranteed permanent
and pure indigo blue.
Farmer’s “Victor” Ready-to-Wear Suits place the
highest-grade garments within the reach of the man
of moderate means. In style, fit, and permanent
sfiape retention they approximate so closely to made-
to-measure Suits that it needs an expert to tell the
difference.
Coats are cut in the favored two-button style, are
slightly waisted, and have centre seam and vent;
vests have medium opening, and smartly-cut
trousers have side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms.
FARMER'S
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets.
SYDNEY
Gage Hats
are the Correct Expression of Goad Style.
ii
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to
pense with buttons, hooks,
eyes and press-studs in men s
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your drapers
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, (Au9tralasia) ’
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April 17, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A vice-regal show and sale of antiques is
the next exciting social event. Dr. Nyulasy’s
energetic sister whirled into the organising
work straight from a two-months’ touring
holiday in Maoriland. Stalls and sections
will be run by relays of the truly eminent,
and you can start to put your hat on towards
the end of the month.
Mrs. Mclnerney, who is a patriotic Eng-
lishwoman, seems sorely worried that _ her
husband the Major has not yet been given
his. active service chance. He’s our Provost-
Marshal, and the only fighting he has been
in since South Africa was a soldiers’ riot
during which he got a broken head. To a
woman who has two brothers in France that
hardly seems good enough for an officer of
his experience.
Lieut.-Colonel Sandford, who was once
boss of the Queenscliff artillery and after-
wards did duty in Adelaide, is headed for
new quarters in the much-coveted corner
wing of the Sydney Barracks. His hand-
some, breezy wife gossiped with her Mel-
bourne friends round the Collins-street caffis
for a day or two on the way through. She
says this is the twenty-seventh move their
far-travelled furniture has had to endure.
Dr. Langdon is on furlough from Egypt,
and his son recently came back as one of a
shipload of convalescents. The two are
recuperating at Queenscliff.
Here’s another Australian who has driven
Kitchener in a car. The present yarn is
that Gordon Ross-Soden, a handsome Toorak
youth, is the big man’s chauffeur. As usual,
the story proceeds that Gordon went to Eng-
land to fly, and was ready to present a
monoplane or any other trifle that would help,
but the Flying Corps was well winged at the
time, so Gordon cast his eyes on the Motor
Transport. And of course he was selected
to be the big chief’s steersman.
Colonel Grimwade’s golden-haired wife and
the flapper daughter, who were in Cairo for
a while, returned instead of going on to
London. The Norton Grimwades spoke of
getting back from there; but the disturbing
news that the eldest boy Fred (_who was
flying for the Empire) had been injured and
made prisoner by the Huns, may alter their
plans. The Huns, by the way, were good
enough to drop a note saying that Fred was
with them, and that his wound was getting
on nicely.
Edward Hippius Bromby, after a long
term as librarian at the Melbourne Uni.,
recently collected his final pay and withdrew
into private life. The late Dr. Bromby was
his father, and partly on the strength of
the old Dean’s connection with Melbourne
Grammar School, partly for his own
scholarly sake, Edward Hippius was long ago
made a member of the school council. Now
and then he emerged from his beloved ob-
scurity to beam kindly upon the present
generation of schoolboys, but mostly he stuck
to his bookshelves or the old garden At
HeidelbergC Since leaving the Shop, he has
sought a seclusion than ever, with a.
share of assorted sea-fishing, at Flinders, in
the neighbor hod of the Naval Base. _ His
successor at the library is Edward Ulrich,
an Australian native, and glad to be. By
the way, when he wa’e laying the foundations
of his later brilliantined career, Chief Jus-
tice Madden was an incumbent of this tidy
billet. _ , . „
Now that the Bowes Kellys are back from
Tasmania, sister Mrs. Miller is off to Sydney
for a trip which will not take her anywhere
near a racecourse. If you have a mother in
Sydney, as she has, it should be possible to
go north at Easter without being accused ot
haunting races in war-time.
After a fevered half-year as honorary
organiser to the Commonwealth Button
Fund, Fred Linley has resigned, reckoning
that his arteries won’t stand the racket. He
is a polite and persistent jterson and left no
likely stone unturned to place an extra
thousand . buttons. Commercial-travelling
was his job before he retired to. Mornington,
and he has lately beesn travelling to some
purpose. However, Mornington is 40 miles
•out of Melbourne —really too far for a regu-
lar daily trip—and the time seems honorably
ripe for Linley’s return on furlough to the
old armchair.
Dorothy McCrae’s husband, the ascetic
Anglican, Charles Berry, who is a vicar in
business at wealthy Camberwell and rural
dean of his district, has found that High and
Low won’t mix at his chapel. So, as a High
Church billet offers in Maoriland, the vicar
and his dainty poetess are off next month
to where a fellow may wear what official
duds he likes.
Tewkesbury, mining man and chief-owner
of the Oriental, steams off to England this
week to join his wife and young daughter,
both of whom went through the Lusitania
nightmare. They haven’t been able to look
at a gangway since, so Dad is going to dare
the Huns.
As I write, the Everard Brownes are
camping at the Oriental on their way from
Colac to Sydney; for Mrs. 8., who is a
sporting Chirnside, wouldn’t miss, the Easter
races for all the wars. The Chris. Cowpers
from Toorak are also Sydney-bound. They
say they only intend “doing” the Blue
Mountains; but the piled luggage also sug-
gests a few race days and Australia nights.
Agnes Murphy, the one-time secretary to
Melba, has gone to Sydney for the winter.
Agnes is glad for cousin Colonel Hugh
Tracey, who has won a decoration, but is
grieving for another cousin who fell some-
where in France. The Hon. Frederick
Shaughnessy, a son of Lord Shaughnessy,
was the one who passed out.
The youthful Crompton Forrest pair have
steamed off on a trip to Ceylon. Mrs.
Crompton was Doleen Robb before she mar-
ried the wealthy grandson of Philip Fysh.
The Albert Miller widow, having sliced up
the Toorak family acres, has disposed of
them by the dozen. The Whernside house,
scantily clothed in a two-acre flower plot,
failed to draw a successful bid. Its owner
intends to close the shutters and shelter at
the Oriental until the seas are safe, when
she will join her absentee daughters in Eng-
land.
Adelaide opens a tin of news: —
The new senior naval-instructor at the Naval Col-
lege is an old St. Peter’s College boy, and a brother
of Lieut. J. Moyes, the cricketer. Another brother
has charge of the Anglican Church at Prospect—
which is quite a different affair.
The late Sergeant A. J. Gollan, who enlisted in
Westralia with the 10th Light Horse and died of
wounds received on August 7, is amongst those men-
tioned in despatches by lan Hamilton. His father,
Major D. T. Gollan, was well known in the southern
districts of the State, and lived for some time at
Mt. Barker.
J. W. McGregor has ' left for London, via the
U.S.A. Part of his time will be spent in making in-
quiries re the manufacture of artificial limbs, on
behalf of the S.A. Wounded Soldiers’ Fund —a grim
mission. While he is in England he hopes to have
the luck to meet his son who is Hun-baiting.
The engagement is announced of a St. Peter’s
master —“Archie” Price —to the C. W. Haywards’ only
daughter Pauline. He is an old St. Peter’s boy him-
self, and it was only a few months ago that he came
back from England to hand on some of the spankings
he’d had himself at the old school. Another of the
clever Delprats is to be married, too —to Dr. Sprod,
of Mannum.
The King Edward statue is still listed among the
art treasures of the future, and sculptor Mackennal
has advised the local committee that he is held up
waiting for bronze. All the bronze foundries are
Government-controlled, and are not allowed to go on
with anything but war work.
Two patriotic concerts during the week, and the
Galways present at both of them. The first, at which
Clara Serena was billed for three songs, was in aid
of the 43rd Battalion Band and Sports Fund, and
the second was for the Red Cross and Trench Com-
forts.
Surveyor-General E. M. Smith intends to retire
early next year, which will mean a reshuffling of
billets in the Lands Department.
4 An undeserving person who had palmed off a value-
less £3 cheque in the country was himself relieved
of precisely that amount by a confidence man in
- town. But why didn’t Providence select a curate for
the act of retribution?
The city fathers have roared a protest at the
Government’s mistake in handing over sections of the
park lands to the Tramways Trust for new lines. This
is my applauding squeak.
The State War Council has paid an official visit to
the Pompoota Training Farm, where 20 returned
soldiers are solving the innermost mysteries of the
trials of the primary producer. There is temporary
accommodation for 50 men, and permanent provision
is to be made for about a hundred. But doji’t let
us make the mistake of thinking that all our returned
warriors will go on the land and grow things. Lots
of them will want to live in cities and make things.
There’s to be a quiet wedding shortly, and Mary,
only daughter of general-traffic manager James
McGuire, of the S. Aus. railways, will then proceed
to tidy-up for D. J. Slattery. Daniel John is the
last-born of an early settler in the Lower North,
and clings to the ancestral wheat acres. If there
were no war Mary might have had eight brothers
present to see fair play; but five of them enlisted
early in the trouble, and one was killed five days
after The Landing.
A poster exhibition —an unusual sort of Art show
—is being given by the Wattle Day League. The
exhibits are all meant for use on May 5, which the
League is going to make a “rose day” in Adelaide, to
raise funds for more ambulances for the Front. The
best thing on the walls is by a professional sign-
writer, who effectively contrasts a rose-garden and a
battlefield, though it perhaps has the rare Australian
quality of sacrificing virility for grace of outline.
There are various classes and various degrees of skill
or the lack of it. The only thing the show suffers
from is a certain monotony, and that was inevitable.
Hugh V. McKay’s only daughter, having
just about grown up, is now meditating
matrimony. A Mr. Kydd is the lucky man
and May 4 will be his lucky day.
The just-reported-by-cable marriage of
Baroness von Arnheim (formerly Miss
Beauchamp, of Sydney) to Earl Russell
would probably be a union of souls. Both
must have outlived their youthful illusions
and both are writers. “Elizabeth” of the
“German Garden” exploited her three
daughters in a later story, “A Solitary Sum-
mer.” The three youngsters (they are grown-
ups now) are named for the month in which
each was born. The old Baron, their
father, died some years ago. Earl Russell
has also had a previous mate; she too died
many years ago.
The Arts and Crafts-women, being experts
at weaving, want to instal a big loom,
which they have; but they cannot get the
massive thing up to their rooms. It won’t
go in the lift, or up the stairs, or through
the doors of the new Clyde Buildings, and
they simply can’t think of hauling it up the
outside, because they have their nest on a
level with the Town Hall clock. The dear
girls will have to come down to earth to
work that loom.
John Madden’s oration at University Com-
mencement consisted mostly of quotations
from heavy articles in the daily papers, and
was a dreary performance. A medical degree-
taker was Howard Praagst, grandson of
Howard Willoughby, who used to be “Timo-
theus” and editor of the Argus. The girl
graduates looked like a band of cantata
singers, with gowns flapping over all-white
trappings. Gynneth Buchanan’s scarlet
robes were bordered with sage green, and she
took her D.Sc. amidst yells of applause
second in violence only to those which were
allotted to one khftkied graduate in the
group. Alfred Buchanan, novelist and
pressman, was too busy editing Bananaland
Daily Mail to be able to receive his Law
degree in person. As a finale, Professor Har-
rison Moore bounded on the stage to intro-
duce the new English-professor Wallace and
Grammar School head Franklin, both of
whom had been awarded the local M.A.’s for
being able to spell, or something of the sort.
The vice-regal Stanleys have promised _ to
be present this week at the annual meeting
of the Arts and Crafts Society. (Loud
cheers.) Professor Spencer is president,
and the A. and C. hope to lure the Stanley
dame in as a working member like the in-
dustrious Carmichael lady. In England the
Arts and Crafts are booming; things are
being made that formerly were imported
from the war-ravaged Continent, and the
enthusiasts here want to follow the lead.
Mrs. Oswald Syme and Miss Dunn (hon-
orary secretaries) hope to send out helpers to
the convalescent hospitals to teach wounded
soldiers useful tricks. The Society has gone
into new rooms in Clyde House, opposite
the Auditorium, where there is plenty of
well-lighted working space. Exhibitions
every month are contemplated, and arrange-
ments are being made for a big design exhi-
bition in June.
Clarence Weber gave his annual pupils’
show at the Auditorium, on Thursday night,
to a big house. The G.-G. was expected to be
there, but when the Anthem was played and
the balcony folk craned their necks to see,
there was nothing at all. So all the necks
were uncraned and the show went on.
Half a dozen Anzecs, all of them former
pupils, occupied invalid chairs on the plat-
form, and two fine pink supermen stripped
themselves of new khaki and had a wrestling
match, the orchestra meanwhile crooning
“Your Dear Arms Enfolding Me.” Weber
showed his star muscular men on a pedestal
against velvet hangings, carefully pointing
out their gladiatorial charms. The amazons
came on in a bunch like a ballet. They
were in white and looked as if they stopped
dressing at the picturesque stage. Weber
made them jump a long stick, which he held
like a circus ringmaster. They looked like
a lot of plump white poodles doing a turn,
and the Anzacs in the foreground had a
perfectly lovely time catching the jumpers
w T hen they stumbled, which quite a lot of them
did —very lightly and very bashfully. Then
they formed pyramids, and the topmost girl
fixed her hair a little while balancing some-
where near the ceiling. During jiu jitsu
exhibitions a commentator on the stage said
of the exercises: “They give the girls confi-
dence with a man.” Weber himself is put-
ting on weight, but is still a vision of manly
beauty, and all the girls in the audience hung
over the balcony in adoration when he did a
classical pose.
Melba has convoyed a prize soprano from
Honolulu. Miss Center is the name on her
luggage, and the girl is to study in Melbourne
under the star at the Conservatorium. Melba
also brought in her train Frank St. Ledger,
the pianist. He accompanied her through
America, and is one of the household at
Coombe Cottage.
There is an impression that Melba in-
herited her legacy of song from father. Her
mother was really the family songster; but
she was a modest performer who would only
sing to her own accompaniment for intimate
friends. She was a daughter of the Dow
who was partner in Dow and Chalmers, a
very early Melbourne shipping firm. Poli-
tician J. L. Dow is a distant connection, and
it was during “cracks” with the late Mrs.
Mitchell about the family tree that he was
given the rare pleasure of hearing her sin
Her voice was sweet and of remarkable
range and purity.
The Macedon concert arranged bv Mw
Stirling and Napoleon Boffard on A.urn 8 »
brought in much good cash for the local tLj
Cross and the Y.M.C.A. camps w d
Hodges and Willie Baillieu, ML C
speeches, Maggie boomed, Boffard ‘tenoreri
and Forrester Dimond supplied the bariton
ing Sweet girls sold programmes, flowed
and sweets; George Claridge played some
classical piano stuff and Isabelle Langlamb
sawed at her violin in her most dreamy man-
ner. It was a happy country concert lit
with town jewels and evening undress
Motors by the dozen waited in the dew near
the family buggies and the munching nags
Napoleon Boffard, who knows his wav
about the howling wastes of Toorak and the
yelling corridors of music shops, was recently
lost in the bush. The Hodges couple had
offered to put him up at their Macedon humnv
for the night before and the night after the
Red Cross concert. Boffard, arriving at Mace-
don by train about dusk, climbed into the
first and only cab he came to and asked to
be put down at the Hodges’ house. The
cabby said “Right-o!” and began to climb
under the impression that the singer had said
“Hoad”- —and the Hoads live on the summit
of the Mount, while the Hodges dwell at the
foot. After the cab had been climbing for
an hour or so, the passenger grew suspicious
and asked the driver a few questions, which
merged into a fierce argument. Eventually
Boffard, his bag and his songs, got out, and
the cab rattled away. Then Napoleon’ the
singer started back on foot, but missed his
way, and wandered about till nearly midnight
cleverly avoiding the lanterned search parties
sent out by his anxious hosts. He tumbled,
a limp, exhausted heap, on to the doormat
when the cuckoo clock was registering the
limit. “No more, nevaire, the bush for me!”
he muttered.
On Eight Hours Day Melba motored from
Lilydale to the Albert-street Conservatorium.
When she arrived there was a sympathetic
silence, and the singer, supported and sur-
rounded by son George, John Lemmone and
sister Dora Lempriere, gave a wan smile of
thanks. Later on she cheered up and greeted
most of her pupils by the pet names she had
given them before she left for America.
The brand-new highbrow Musical Club
only wants Melba’s word of approval before
it breaks out into a first night. Over a
hundred of the most learned have been
elected as original members, and are pre-
pared to swear an oath against German
music. Can’t we get people to love Aus-
tralian goods as thoroughly?
Mrs. Percy J. Russell, Mayoress of
Hawthorn, is organising a grand operatic
and ballad concert (all suburban concerts
are “grand”) for May 2, in the local town
hall. The cash will help to support the
Hawthorn Red Cross. Irma Caron is to do
some platform operatics in costume d la
Calve, and Amadio, who used to be our boy
flautist, but is now grown-up and married,
will blow an item or two. Another promised
performer is Cecil Parkes, the latest violin
prodigy.
Speaking as a guest at the annual dinner of
the Melbourne University Association the
other evening, William Laver, Ormond Pro-
fessor of Music, declared himself to be
“particularly proud that the position was held
by a native of Australia.” But the profes-
sor’s own country might have had cause to
be prouder of him if his 1916-17 Conserva-
torium prospectus had shown a more catholic
idea of how Australia should be musically
educated. For the Mus. Bac. degree and the
diploma in music (each a three-years’ course)
the only composers whose works are men-
tioned for study are: (a) Bach, Mozart,
Beethoven, Schumann, Schubert, Gliick,
Weber, Wagner, Mendelssohn, Brahms.
Haydn; (6) Cyril Scott, Percy Grainger;
(c) Tschaikovsky; (d) Verdi. So in music
there is but one Gott, and Laver is his
prophet.
Bishop Mercer, who used) to wear Angli-
can gaiters in the Flyspeck, And now super-
intends a collection plate in Manchester
(Eng.) as a mere rector, has lately engaged
himself to take a second chance in the
marriage lottery. His first wife, who died
in Hobart some four years back, was a sister
of The Bulletin’s old friend Canon Aler-
veilleux Arclidall, of Sydney. Mercer m
appearance strongly resembles lately-
deceased John Norton, but lacks his doubles
picturesque vocabulary—though he used to
send shudders down the spines of ias-
manian Tories by openly proclaiming him-
self a Socialist and declaring his sympathy
with the aims and ideals of Australian Laboi
in politics. He is the author of severs
books on philosophic subjects, and as write
and thinker is better known on the ot e
side of the world than anyone else who ua
ever bished in the Commonwealth.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Dewar
66
\Ml:i
m
if*
V* 1
U ( %,
4 IIU t iH( /
tt/? }
hnperiaP
A
i;S<i
.o'
/j
K'tivT:'
‘I iijl'ifr
to* '
1 '
t/UMIUi
Jjw
■'"/(
iwy
v'7 i-
/u/
I*'
I l
‘ y /j i ..'
41 A
''* <.u,
V
Ut't,-
\. *- ' ' V
W/u^y
V ‘ i
l\\l//
#6
'Vj. *
« /
u
i[n V//////,/« f ,
. /'V
iLiili , ~i<f
•* lu t
A TAP WORTH HAV4NG,


The
Re-inforced
& Invisible
Neckpiece.
A BIG SAVING
IN SHIRT WEAR
Every Man
money. T
Popular
nowadays wants the utmost for
he value and advantages offered in
“DOUBLE-LIFE” SHIRT
his
our
cannot be excelled in Australia. Everything is
right the cut, fitting and materials. In addition
to the reinforced neckband, we now supply an
extra pair of cuffs free.
"i ou are assured absolutely double life in these Shirts,
which means that the price of
POST FREE, 5/9 TO ANY STATE,
stands for true economy.
Zephyr material, Blue/
Colors guaranteed.
The Shirts are made in
Black and Helio Stripes.
[1
The Sleeve
Lift- for
Ease and
Comfort.
GHAS. LANE & GO.
PTY.
LTD.
ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE.
X *©M«*C*
THE
TOP NOTCH
■ whisky
THE WHISKY
OF QUALITY
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES.
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthv
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
<!• WILKINSON, Chemist,
Wickham Street. Valley, Brisbane.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“1t.A.8.”: This would cure a jibbing
woman, let alone a jibbing horse. Persuade him
to allow you to harness him to a cart, the shafts of
which must protrude 18 inches beyond his collar.
Connect the ends of the shafts with a crossbeam, to
the centre of which fix a pulley block. Run a
rope through the block and hobble each end to his
nibs's forelegs. One leg should be held 12 inches
above the ground when fixing the persuasion. When
the nag attempts to put his leg down he forces the
other to rise, and viae versa. I have tried this on
many confirmed jibs, and it has always run out
an easy winner.
DISPOSED OF.
JAY PAY (to person charged with being of unsound mind): “The evidence goes to prove
the charge, and you are—um—fined five shillings or 48 hours. Next case.”
“Silas”: He was leaning on a verandali-
post in front of a Swanston-street pub, a mere
driblet of a man, white-faced, blear-eyed, choke-full
of pure misery. He was obviously aware of nothing
going on in the world; intolerable woe possessed him
from hair to toenails. A tall, thin man with wasted
trousers, a neglected Norse moustache of the color
of old straw, and large, luminous eyes, was attracted
by the monument of melancholy, and went up to
him, loitering around him, inspecting him from
several angles with touching solicitude. Finally the
Norseman spoke. “Dear boy,” he said, “whoever you
are, I know whatsa matter with you—you’re bored.”
He laid a hand tenderly on the other’s arm. “I
tell you what, ole f’l’r, I’ll have a drink with you.”
“Naw!” yapped Moody Melancholy. “No?” ques-
tioned the philanthropist. “Then I’ll play you a
game of billiards.” “Naw!” yapped Moody. “No?
Well” —-with unabated kindness—“l’ll fight you.”
“Naw!” yapped the soured ingrate. “No?” queried
the good Samaritan with a marked increase of
brotherly love. “No? But I must do something for
you. You want bucking up. Ah, yes!” The
kindly soul slapped Moody twice in the face, and then
went jauntily on his way. The treatment was effica-
cious. Moody was getting after his benefactor with
a track-repairer’s hammer when I saw him last.
* * * *
“Analyst” : Re pot. permanganate as a
specific for snake poison, a Darling Downs (Q.)
medico recommended to me a modification of this
treatment—oxalic acid in conjunction with the per-
manganate. A schoolboy, bitten by a death-adder on
the instep, was brought to his surgery within a few
minutes. The doc. scarified and permanganated the
wound freely, and, 10 minutes later, rubbed in
crystals of oxalic acid. The youngster was bad
for a couple of hours, but pulled through quickly
afterwards. Whether the permanganate would have
done the trick without the aid of the acid I don’t
know, but the medico was doubtful.
* * * *
“Stingo”: “Try Fluke” (B. 23/3/Tfi)
must be one of the old brigade to barrack for the
Snider and Martini-Henry as rifles for dangerous
game. Certainly they are ahead of the ordinary
American .32, or even .44, which with a light
bullet and low velocity (1300 ft. per second) are
not suitable for anything much more dangerous than
kangaroo, but the Snider and Martini are far behind
the modern high-velocity big-game rifle. Striking
force is the urgency, and a Jeffery .333 has 40001 b.
of it, against a M.H.’s 18001 b. and a ,32’s 4001 b.
Velocity does the trick ; doubling the velocity, quad-
ruples the striking force, with the same weight of
bullet, and that is where the modern weapon scores
with its 2600 ft. per second. Next time “T.F.” goes
gunning for pig let him take an English high-
velocity .318 or .333, or if he prefers the products
of Wilson’s country, a Winchester .35 or .405, and
if he holds straight he won’t need to complete the
argument with a knife.
“ J.N.”: Mention of the queer ways in
which animals meet their death (B. 16/3/’l6) recalls
a good horse that a mate of mine lost. It had wan-
dered into a deserted hut on an out-station, and the
door must have blown shut. The cruel part was we
passed the place half a dozen-times during our pere-
grinations in search of the nag.
THE TENDER PASSION.
“But do yer really love me, ’Erh?”
“Love yer? Strike! W’y, if I seen yer chippin ’ any other Hoke I couldn't ’elp meself
frum bashin’ yer blarsted ’ead orf.”
“Will G. Buck” : Toowoomba is repairing
a pack saddle which has had a unique experience.
It bolted with a horse from some drovers on the way
from Texas to Maryborough nine months ago, and
some kangaroo-shooters caught it the other day. The
saddle and everything in it wrnre just the same as
when they scooted, and the only effect on the horse
was a sore back.
* * * *
“Te P.”: The nearest substitute to bull
flesh that I have struck is whale meat.
Hacked off near the ribs the cutlet is dark red in
color, and without oil. Seasoned with onions and
served in oyster sauce it makes as good a steak as
that turned over on the average Dago grid. At an
adjacent whaling station whenever there is a “kill”
the meat is sold in lumps of anything up to half a
hundredweight at a penny a pound. It is rushed
by both whites and browns. There is business up
Tonga way for an energetic man with a canning
plant. Attention might also be turned to tinning
whale milk. A few tame cows penned off from their
calves would prove a profitable proposition.
* * * *
“Wang”: It’s a good many years now
since I sang my loudest to keep off the bush-bred
demons of loneliness and fear. Sitting on a bush
friend’s verandah recently late at night I heard a
lonely wayfarer roaring himself home with a senti-
mental song, and it made me grin sheepishly to myself.
I knew the symptoms. If you were foolish enough to
accuse a bushfellow of being scared to go home in
the dark, you would certainly have to fight him;
but he wouldn’t prove you wrong, though he might
blacken your eye. I’ve always had a thorough con-
tempt for my own voice; but there have been times
when I simply had to tune up or stampede. I re-
member one old chap we used to meanly fill up with
horrible yarns, knowing well that he had to travel
a dark and lonely road home. His method was
to pretend he was a gang of jolly good fellows going-
home in company, and he would keep up the com-
forting illusion by supplying a remarkably varied
conversational clatter. I know worse mimics who
are making a comfortable living on the stage.
“Alidade”: The durability of timbers
depends on the conditions they are subjected to. I
know a fence of tea-tree posts that crosses a swamp
for about a quarter of a mile. After five years there
is not a post in the swamp that shows signs of
decay, but every post on each side of the swamp is
rotten. Pender, one of the hardest timbers in N.Q.,
acts in a contrary manner. In dry, well-drained land
it lasts indefinitely, but in moist soil it goes within
three or four years. Grey hickory is the best all-'
round lasting timber growing in N.Q. It seems
imperishable. I saw an old bridge-decking of hickory
taken up. It had been in service for 25 years and
was harder than when put down. Up north blood-
wood is useless for bridge girders and excellent for
piles. It simply won’t last in a horizontal position.
Conversely, stringy-bark makes splendid girders, but
is no good fppj piles. This is because it rots when in
contact with earth. When placed partlv in the ground
beantree rots “between wind and water” in four or
five years, but if well underground, like the sills of
light road bridges, it lasts for an indefinite period.
It also is splendid for work not in contact with the
earth. On account of its low tensile strength, it is
of very little value for bridges. It is the easiest
worked hardwood in N.Q. Cypress pine is a good
timber, but is very free and splits under the slightest
provocation, so it is of very little use for sleepers
or bridge work. It makes good house blocks, and it
is supposed to treat white ants with contempt. Re-
garding “Warre’s” (B. 2/3/’l6) contention that the
big end of split-fence posts would act as a roof and
thus add to the life of the post, wooden telephone
poles in the North are always given a “wedge” top
to prevent any rain lodging there. Piles for timber
bridges and wharves are always driven with the
small ends down, but that’s merely because they are
easier to shove in that way.
* * * ♦
“The Whiff” : When I found our deserter
cook in the bush pub taking in a heavy cargo, I told
him the boss had said he would d—d well have to
come back to camp, and added, on my own account,
that I didn’t intend to leave without him. He knew
me for the best pickhandle fighter in the camp, so
instead of blustering he loaded his coat pockets with
bottles and took one in either hand. We were
Indian-filing along the edge of a cutting when he
stumbled over a stone, and dived straight for the
road. To my amazement there was no crash of
broken glass—merely a soft thud and a sound of
sliding. Presently four bottles of beer were thrust
up from the shadows and the most horrible girth-
gall of a face I’ve ever seen appeared and said,
“My Gord, young feller, that took some terrible
quick thinking!”
* * * *
“Disillusioned” : Pigs do not when swim-
ming cut their throats. About 1878, when one of the
pig boats (The Dawn) was steaming from Warrnam-
bool to Melbourne with a lot of porkers on deck, she
struck terribly rough weather, and off Point Road-
knight a very heavy sea washed a lot of the abhorred
of Israel overboard. Quantities of them were
washed ashore from Aries Inlet to Swampy Creek
(now known as Anglesia River), but never a pig had
a mark on 1t to indicate that it had met with any
injury other than an overdose of Pacific.
* * * #
“Homo”: I know the vegetable mas-
querading under the title of the “Tree of Heaven.”
I ears ago some misguided person introduced it to a
V ie. up-country cemetery. It soon proved itself a
German in angel’s garb, and its roots spread to
surrounding graves in an almost impenetrable mass.
By much perseverance and language hardly befitting
the surroundings, the tentacles of the octopus of
Paradise were torn out, as far as practicable, to a
depth of 4ft. or sft. In due time, however, a
dense forest of robust suckers made an appearance,
and the trouble became worse than ever. Chemical
poisoning was tried, as was everything else that
could be suggested by the combined thinking outfit
of the town, but it is still threatening ’to take posses-
sion of the entire boneyard.
(Continued on page 24.)
BAD BREAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I've been cooking on a station where the Murrum-
bidgee flows,
Where they irrigate the country and the giant
pumpkin grows;
But I lost my job last Sunday and I’m now upon
the track;
For the boss was feeling dainty and he handed me
the sack —•
“Bad bread!”
I am good at cakes and puddings and can roast a
joint of meat;
I can dish up fish and poultry till it’s fit for gods
to eat;
Yes, I’ll cater for Olympus and get through without
a hitch,
But I always drop my billet in that same old ditch —-
Bad bread!
T had entertained a poet and his friend at lunch
one day;
They enjoyed the meat and trimmings and the feast
was blithe and gay,
Till it came the time for parting and they said their
last good-byes—
Yes, although they never told me, I could read it in
their eyes:
“Bad bread!”
If I’m at the moving pictures with a girl upon the
lee,
Those merry hustling people seem to jeer and point
at me.
I can see their dumb lips saying: “There’s a man
that should be dead,
For he tries to poison shearers with his damn bad
bread!”
(Bad bread ! Bad bread 1 )
When at last I fold my apron and am laid away at
rest,
They can write a little epitaph to say I did my best;
They can write it deep and plainly on the stone
above my head—
Then I'll never more be haunted by the words “Bad
bread!”
( Bad —bad bread!)
N.S.W.
JIM GORDON.


“Going; to the Show?
I »
'!llt
Ess r%
Crown your appearance with a
Murdoch hat and you’ll be spic and
span for the occasion.
Here are Two Grand
Murdoch Hat Values.
Smart Soft Felts in new shapes and •
colorings—the very latest in style
and well trimmed with smart bows
and bands.
8/11 Postage Bd. extra.
Murdoch’s special “Itala” quality
Soft Felts, smart and dressy, in the
newest shapes and shadings, cut or
stitched edge, bow at back or side,
self or black band—beautiful smooth
finish.
12/11 Postage Bd. extra.
We have your size in any style you
favor. Come in and try it on or
write Desk R.
COUNTRY VISITORS .
Make a point of inspecting the Mam-
moth Store before you return, and
leave your measures for future refer-
ence. It will cost you nothing.
MURDOCH’S,
in Park Street Ltd. SYDNEY,
“Where the Good Hats are.”
£
if*
war*
%
i
-.
Nelson’s Victory
Dispenser’s
Bar Arm
Enables you to do Bigger
Business at Less than
Half Cost.
Hotelkeepers, and all who serve Aerated Waters, through the medium of the
“VICTORY” Bar Dispensing Arm have been quick to realise the tremendous
advantage it has created in the turnover of their business.
Customers, too, appreciate the manner and the speed in which their drinks
are served —they realise the advantage of being fixed up smart.
The “VICTORY” has made good in a big, broad manner—it is accepted
to-day by all who are in a position to judge—as “THE BAR ARM SUPREME.”
It has helped hundreds of houses to make good by reducing the cost of production,
in the elimination of manual labor-serving drinks direct into customer’s glass.
The “VICTORY” 1916 Patent is absolutely the last word in Bar Arms.
It is complete in every detail. Nothing complicated to get out of order, there
being no springs of any kind. The construction is simple, action perfect, results
rapid and satisfactory.
There are strong reasons why you should instal without delay. Write us in
reference to this matter, and we will post you full information, and show you how
you can save big money.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Turbot Building, Turbot Street, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and PERTH.
THREE IMPORTANT FEATURES
IN THE
GENUINE PIANOLA PIANO
A patented device that will
automatically and correctly oper-
ate the “pedal” when desired.
Uhe JJidomalic
Sustaining tyedal
The Pianola's wonderful pat-
ented guide to correct tempo
and interpretation. Makes mu-
sicianly playing possible to all.
Q/ie (Melpostule
An important and exclusive
device tluit automatically em-
phasizes the “ melody ” notes
either in the treble or bass.
Oi’he VhemodLst
NE by one, problems quite
unattainable by the "player-
piano” are met by the Pianola. The
dulled melody is brought out. The
over-insistent bass is regulated. The
dead monotony of tempo is banished.
The “feelinglessuess” is gone. At a step
you enter into the wonderful heritage of
musical self-expression through music’s
most beautiful and comprehensive
instrument, the piano. At a step you
feel the power to regulate melody just
as the great pianists do, who simply
do so because they possess the
“ music mechanics ” which the Pianola
supplies even more effectively to yofi.
*
; i
:
m
f-r.
-• s
WE want you to hear and "know
the Pianola —the real Pianola
that towers musically so far above the
so-called “player-pianos” its great
success has brought upon the market.
And that you may hear this wonderful
instrument, in the STEINWAY,
STECK, STROUD or famous WEBER
pianos, we cordially invite you to call at
Pianola Hall, or write for Catalog B.L.
The Pianola Company
PTY. LTD.
384 George Street, Sydney
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.


'' • ~-■ '* .-’,U -Vr- ’y
•>C ‘ " j
I*l
tgj
ft
S 3
KYNOCH
- ammunition
K\NOCH “P.G.” (perfectly gas-
ti « ht > CARTRIDGE— the highest
class imported into Australasia. It is a
superb cartridge for match shooting, being
used by the best shots. The specially-deep
brass head ensures perfect ejection. 22
inches long.
Always specify KYNOCH “ P.G. ,?
when you want the very best. :
All British
Manufacture.
2]
%f g?
B
Martin s Pills are sold by W. H Soul
I attinson & Co. Ladies recommend them’
Be sure you get the genuine with sft
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Trans”: We on the Transcontinental line
forwarded our entry for the biggest eagle or eagle-
hawk recently. It measured 7ft. 3in. from wing-tip
to wing-tip. We put a tin tag round the big
rooster’s neck bearing the word “O’Malley,” and sent
it in a case to the supervising engineer at Kal-
goorlie. All doubts as to the measurement will be
soothed on inquiry there.
* * * * $
“S.S.S.” : In Papua and the Torres Strait
isles the well-meaning missionary and the doctor
try to make brown brother die “decently” in bed,
but the call of the earth is insistent, and the patient
usually spreads himself on the landscape. I once
asked a Jap. why Orientals don’t sit on the ground
instead of squatting over it. He explained that they
have a folk-fable that if more of one’s body touche’s
the earth than the air the earth can claim it, as it
is becoming worn out and needs flesh and bones to
recuperate. A Malay told me much the same.
THE CONVERTS.
At the close of the business-men’s meeting the
missioner asked everyone to shake hands with his
neighbor.
McDOUGALL: “We were all greatly affected,
McPherson, and I shook bonds with a
mon who owed me a shillin’ lang syne.”
McPHERSON: “And did he pay?”
McDOUGALL: “Aye, mon —I asked him for
it.”
Y. A. Long”: I suppose that the sub-
urban 6waggies who jambed the lid on an airtight
tin when making tea and had a blow-out (B.
23/3/’l6) were trying to keep the water from becom-
ing smoked. Next time they go bush let them leave
the tin open and place a green stick across the top.
QUITE O.K.
Employer : “One thing—we must have our figures correct.”
Applicant: “Well, Eve never had any complaints yet on that score.”
“X.Y.”: “Doolye” (B. 16/3/’l6) says he
never heard the word lubra used except by whites,
or by blacks “speaking white,” to denote woman,
and he quotes Kendall as using it to denote mother,
The writer’s experience has been similar, but it does
not follow that lubra was not the correct term for
woman, and for mother also, in the language of
some long dead-and-gone tribe ill the
neighborhood of Port Jackson. My
experience of blacks and their lam
guage has been almost entirely Cbn-
fined to the coast north of the
Huhter, and I have found the lan-
guage varied with each watershed of
the North Coast rivers right up to
Point Danger. Each river was a
base and centre of aboriginal life,
and, although the blacks hunted to
some distance from their river, they
never crossed the dividing ridge into
the territory of the adjoining river
tribe, except during a hostile inva-
sion. Many words were common to
two or more tribes; but most were
so different that the languages might
fairly be said to be distinct; Iff
the district in which 1 Was born, at
a time when blacks were still numer-
ous and healthy, the word for mother
was “niah,” with the accent on the
first syllable. This term strictly
denoted a female parent. But there
was a more general term which was
applied to any woman after attain-
ing puberty, viz., “merhikan” ami
“lubra” may have been used in the
same way. “Merhikan” was also used
in a figurative sense for mother;
thus, a mountain famous for its
echo effects during thunderstorms
was called Malo Merhikan—‘the
mother of thunder. The white man
has corrupted this name into Molly
Milligan. A swamp on the same river
was called Bamba Merhikan—the
mother of eels. An old man, con-
versant with the coastal languages
from Kiama to Ballina, many years
ago told me that the name Parramatta
meant, in the language of the Port Jackson blacks,
mother (or birthplace) of eels. At the head of the
river before mentioned stands Mount Sea View. This
was called by the blacks Koko Merhikan—‘mother of
figs, on account of the fig bushes which flourished in
the ravines.
* * * *
“I’ot Jos tier” : Reoently whilst fishing in
the Fitzroy River, Rockhampton (Q.), just above the
big meatworks, which haven’t turned a wheel since
August of last year, a sport was surprised by a great
commotion in the water. Rowing to the spot he
came upon a large barramundi (gigantic perch)
almost exhausted, and with difficulty, owing to its
struggles and size, got it into the boat. Then he
found that a big catfish, objecting to be eaten,
had elevated his deadly spike into the throat of
the “barra” and could be neither swallowed nor dis-
gorged. The big fish when cleaned weighed 451 b.
“D.F.”: Director Cronin, of the Mel-
bourne Botanic Gardens, holds that a lot of the talk
about deep cultivation and stirring up the subsoil is
all rot. He says that the popular notion, shared by
many city farmers who write and talk On the sub-
ject, that if you get a certain amount Out of
the Soil by breaking it up to a depth of
9ih. you will get twice as much by pulverising it f©r
18in, down, isn’t supported by the facts, and that ft
lot of the criticism thrown at the Australian farmer
because of his alleged “scratching” and failure to
go in for deep cultivation is hot-air. Even intense
culturists have learnt how deceptive the deep-digging
craze may be. Years Sg6 the gtoWets of prize
chrysanthemums Used t 6 stir the soil up to a depth
bt about 2ft. and put into it as much manure as it
would hold. Now they get better results
with less than half that depth of soil, resting
on a good hard bottom, and with a much more
sparing use of manure. In his work of judging
farmers’ tree plantations up and down Victoria in
order to assign the prizes offered by the State
Government for the best show In this HnC- drohlri
has found that the wdrst results are generally shbwil
Where thd pleliminal-y Cultivation has been deepest
and most elaborate. His conclusion is that instead
of the generalities about deep and thorough cultiva-
tion which writers and alleged experts repeat one
after another like a mob of parrots, we want real
scientific experiments as to the needs of different
ciops and the variations in the system -required to
meet the differences of soil, sub-soil and climate,
tt * ♦ * *
“Jobber”: Although I can't produce a
** „ heUt “Myall’s” nomination (B.
fl 1 -'. 1;, )> 1 d hke to enter a grey mate Owned by
the late Charlie Howland, of Burrftwartg (N.S.W.),
well known in the Berrimft district and one of the
best horsemasters i’vte ever admired—arid theke arb
a few good ’uhS here ih Egypt. Rbwiand Often ti*aw
died the mare from Braidwood to Burrawang in a
day, and there are &8 miles Of Country between the
towhS, some Of it hilly-, too. He used tO say that
there wash t enough riioney in the State id tempt
him tO divorce the grey,
(< . * * * *
“B.”i Some years ago Itatu Lalas’s
schooner Mere foundered in Some Somo Straits. A
and faif tbf iTm* * i™ 156 ' P — trough the fiabiil
and out the hold, and brOught the rope end back to
the surface. The depth to the deck was carefully
eaSured by half a dozen Europeans and found to be
lo tathoms 2ft. Cll Oft V -rv,„ ... .
>l»u, two horn, „L lhc ”**‘ re
l h .?' alchl ‘, glu ’ : The 0,(1 ch “P in whose hut
I had camped was grumbling as he prepared break-
fast that rats had disturbed his rest “The Cows
and they goiter borne out.” Half an hour i r . ’
.“Jr# b,mk ? the^ «Xfi
sr-bbed, spade "'if ™ **
blanker, was it?” outed the visitor. ‘ V * y ° U
* ♦ *
. : Win some Abo. vet. tell me how
of fh? I th6 l att , aCkS 0f sandflies? With the fallin-
of the local river the little pests have come in
swarms, and my horses have suffered crueßv.Thav
tried smearing with fat or axle grease, which acted
fairly well, but I found it inconvenient when ft
came to riding the anointed moke.
“Quidam”: There are many untoward in-
cidents connected with the chase, and one of the
most exasperating is the tendency of the domestic
cat to get caught in a rabbit trap. The meek-eyed
harmless-looking pussy that slumbers so peacefully
before the Are by day generally throws off her dis-
guise and goes rabbiting at night, wherever there is
any chance of catching any, and no one knows better
than a rabbiter the bloodthirsty side of darling
pussy's character. There is, moreover, no animal
which so totally loses all its domestic virtues as a
cat in a rabbit trap, and a live bomb is about as
pleasant company. Spitting fire and brimstone
through her whiskers, and using the most unholy
language, she arises and attacks the trap-owner with
three unfettered legs and all her teeth if he comes
too near. The usual programme is to curse the cap-
tive, and then shove down the trap spring with a
long stick, upon which a line of sparks and a stream
of cat profanity will denote that pussy has »one
home, and that it will be necessary to keep a dis-
creet silence on the matter. Cat owners invariably
take such occurrences in the nastiest spirit possible.
* * * *
“Tom D.”: Bush scribes seem to
have overlooked the best, most valuable and prettiest
grained of all timbers—the Queensland Burdekin
plum. For cabinet work or any other fancy job
the big black plum-wood can’t be shoved out of
first place, In Some of the timber the grain is most
beautifully marked in black and rose-pink streaks.
An old tree as a rule is tough and makes handsome
gun stocks, just as light and far better marked than
the imported and expensive walnut.
* * * *
“Alidade”: A good method in Australia to
find north is to erect a stick perpendicularly in the
ground. Mark the end of the shadow when you
reckon it’s 10 or 15 minutes before noon, and keep
on marking it every five minutes. The mark that is
closest to the stick is due south from the stick.
When the shadow begins to lengthen the sun is past
its zenith, and the Observer need not mark any more,
Like “N.R.’s” method (B, 3/3/'i6) the result is the
“true” cardinal pbint, which differs slightly from
magnetic. However, this is immaterial td ft bushed
stockbroker.
* * * •
“Musketoon”: “Pick” to the contrary,
“Barcoo” is right when he says that some teamsters
yoke their bullocks four abreast. Not long ago two
wheat teams drawn by bullocks four deep, excepting
two in the pole, arrived at Forbes (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Chink” : Before the curtain is rung down
On the argument anent Australian wild-flower gar-
dens, let me say a word for a neglected corner of
Victoria —Mallacoota Inlet, adjacent to the border of
N.S.W. and Gippsland, Although at present nothing
larger tbari a fishihg tub can squeeze through the
hari-Ow Channel from seaward, and the journey over-
land frOm Orbost is a strenuous proposition for the
average holiday-maker, Mallacoota is worth it all
and a heap rriore: H§nry LaWsftn and Frank Iriyefs
have baid sd before rtie, but the assurance Is worth
handing out frbsh wheii flbwfer-fields arfe up for atlmifa :
tion. The Genoa-Orbost roadside is a giorv, arid
nothing to beat its floral gems has brightened my
eyes. The patches of scarlet bottle-brush out-
class even the crimson splendor of flame-trees in the
big gullies of Queensland.
NO BUSINESS.
FLYBLOWN ShEARER (trying to pet five bob
for his "owner."): "’N’ work sheep!
Strike! He'll work 'em into the sale-
yards and briny the cheque out in his
mouth. ' N' enmpUnyt 'Struth! You'd
never be [?]nelll with him in the but
He can — well, he can do anything but
talk."
TIRED MUSTERER: “Can't talk! What a
blanky pity! I'd give five bob for a
dory that could gabber a bit! You
know, one of these blanky good old liars
that'd liven me Up a treat when the
sheds cut out and all the shearers are
gone."
THE DOG AND HIS DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dog who has had his day, dear friend, is never
the dog for me;
I want the dog that can sight fresh days as long as
his eyes can see;
I love the wight, be he old or young, who laughs at
the sky so blue
And says that the days he has had were good—but
so are the days anew.
The dog who has had his day, dear friend, he poses
as wondrous wise, ,'
And says this life is a grievous sham and half of it
naught but lies.
It may be true for a growling few, but most of us
feel at core
There’s grit and go in the friend or foe who makes
for the gleaming shore;
The gleaming shore of a lifting goal that shows bn
the ocean’s rim ;
Who swells his heart with a big, big hope what time
that his eyes are dim;
The days that went are the days we spent in battle
and wine and song,
The days to come are the days that nerve a man till
his soul is strong.
I know the joys of the days agone, they fade in the
mist behind,
But ever a hope in the vanward shines unless you
are clean gone blind;
The dog that has had his day may whine and wail
on a lonely shore,
But mine is the dog that is barking loud, “Hurrah for
the One Day More!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Absolutory
l guaiifies./t
Stp
c\<£
HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
AT MODERATE PRICES.
CIGARETTES
A RE of irresistible quality, they have
an individuality about them so
alluring and compelling that other
brands seem colorless by contrast.
XT-k QOO The Famous |A
I^lo. UUU Red Pacßet fU
STANDARD WEIGHT
NOT LESS THAN 10 for 6d.
of all high=class
tobacconists and stores
throughout Australasia.
&
o
o
&
*
fibs
o/
VS'
a*
&0*
Va
-£
s
4>
>0
*
©
o
'V
0 ?
Oo
r*
Kv
<?>
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
LONDON, ENG.


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
=CURE -
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
GOUGHS, GROUP AND COLDS.
THOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud," or serious illness may follow.
4/
At
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n s w.; Wellington, n.z.
“An Excellent
Preparation.”
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Jm
o
1%
fl.
K
15.
C.KWIGSLtr- S^ITH-.
THE SUPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some of the officers of the Citizens’ Forces have
been asked to show cause why they should not W
their commissions if they are not prepared to <>-o in
the Front.
When I first put this uniform on,
I thought there was no chance of war;
But the crack of the rifles
And other small trifles
Have bust international law.
All my friends to the trenches have gone
But it never struck me to go, too,
Till a spluttering colonel,
With cheek quite infernal,
Said, “D—n it all! what about yout
Yes, d —n it- all! what about you?
Dear me ! I never thought of it !
Quite a lot of the chaps have gone!
But I really forgot about doing my bit
When 1 first put this uniform on.
When I first put this uniform on,
The bill made me look very blue;
’Twas a lot to be paying,
But people kept saying:
He’s a gent—and an officer, too!”
When I shouted in public I shone;
People stared at my costume ornate;
For the idle are partial
To clothes that are martial,
And I’m forced to admit I looked great.
Yes, I really do think I looked great.
No clothes will satisfy them now!
It’s the warrior’s self they wait upon!
I never prepared for a genuine row
When I first put this uniform on!
N.S.W.
PATIENCE.
“Rastus”: “C. Ockney” (R. 9/3/’l6) is
right when he mentions the Cold Country
as the birthplace of “My Little Grey Home
in the West,” but the author neither wears
specs, nor is she a Brixton lady. She hails
from Windermere and keeps the wolf from
the door mainly by providing revue and
panto, comedians with topical songs. As
Sister Wilmot, a Red Cross nurse, she is
well known to any Anzac who cursed Abdul
at his leisure in Wandsworth (Eng.) Hos-
pital, after the Gallipoli unpleasantness.
“H.M.” : It is the touring theatrical show
that suffers most from the disinclination of
publicans to supply accommodation, even
when spot cash is available. In large towns
hotelkeepers bid for thespian patronage; but
there are certain “smalls ” where a visit
from a show is regarded by Bung as an
injury. Bulls (M.L.), which was about
eight miles from the railway, had a particu-
larly bad reputation when this writer, with
a crowd of 15 or 16 on his hands, struck it.
A couple of weeks previously Dix’s co. had
had to coach on to Fielding after the show,
although there were four or five good hotels
in the place. On my visit, finding no hotel
accommodation available, I got the rather
unwilling assistance of the police, and
demanded the production of the visitors’
book which publicans are supposed to keep
but usually don’t. Mainly because the
police seemed disinclined to break their
genial relationship with the hotelkeepers, the
examination didn’t help matters much, so
other arrangements were made and a com-
plaint was fired into the Licensing Board.
On a return visit a few weeks later the
doors of the hotels were wide open. But
the embittered boss of the hotel where I
stayed handed out Gott strafe remarks
regarding the injuries of a legal character
he intended to inflict. Ilis hot air haunts
me still.
.Tose Collins, daughter of Ta-ra-ra Lottie
Collins, was recently playing cinodrama iu
New Yark. Another name with memories
clinging to it is that of Lydia Yeamans Titus.
She’s flickering as Mme. GatTpaux in the
canned version of “Madame Le Presidente.”
which Australia knows as “Who’s the Lady?”
“S.S.”: I timed “Twin Beds” the other
night. Eliminating intervals and stage
waits, there was about an hour and seven
minutes’ entertainment in it —admitting it
is all entertaining. Now, to pretend that a
management is giving patrons their six bobs’
worth in such circumstances is simply
absurd. If I knew which Act to proceed
under, I would sue the firm for short
measure. There is ample room for a curtain-
raiser before “Twin Beds,” but it is a tradi-
tion among theatrical managers in Australia
(a superstitious tribe) that curtain-raisers
are unlucky. I know a few butchers and a
coal-dealer who also have the fixed convic-
tion that it is unlucky to give full weight.
A Maorilander now making good on the
variety stage in The Smoke is one Jack
Macdonald, of Christchurch, billed as
“Delino, The Demon of the Wire.” V\ hen
last heard from he was a headliner at the
Victoria Palace and was nursing a contract
to do a star turn at a big vaudeville house
in Paris. He started on mum’s clothes line
in the back yard and got his first reaJ
chance at Sydney Tivoli.
“Masetto”: Evelyn Scotney, who was thb
star soprano goods of the Marshall Hall
music mill six or seven years ago,. returns
here almost at once. Her voice finding little
employment locally, she went to the U.S.A.,
tarrying a while in Paris for a few hints
from the late Marchesi. The Boston Opera
Co. engaged her at once and she achieved
success and a husband named White, a has-' 0
who plays the ’cello as a side line. Ihe
White-Scotneys then ran an opera troupe
of their own, but they don’t talk of bringing
it to Australia.
“Gustavus Gravelpit”: After all, the soldier
who miraculously recovered his speech during
a performance of “Under Fire” in the hrs
week of its run at the Criterion Theatre, was
only an imitation. The original in the pai
was a member of the Army Cycle Corps,
Hopkins by name, whose talking machinery
had been put out of gear through being
“gassed” at Ypres. Hopkins was at a
kinema show at Norbury (Eng.) when a
comic film threw him into such a convulsion
of mirth that to the amazement of all 11S
comrades ejaculations in the vernacula
burst from him. He went back to the loca
war hospital chatting gaily, we are tola, an<
blessing the [space here for advt.] picture-
show.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Law had a tune on a time-payment
piano the other day, the case being one in
which a piano-purchaser claimed the cash
she had paid for an instrument on the
ground of misrepresentation. The piano
firm pleaded the Statute of Limitations,
claiming that as the transaction commenced
in 1904 the cause of action did not arise
within the prescribed six years. The success
of such a plea would make any guarantee
for an article designed to last longer than
six years a mere scrap of paper, and seeing
that guarantees of 10 and 12 years are a
common thing, the defence was fairly cheeky.
Fortunately the Court wouldn’t swallow the
dose. The plaintiff had relied upon a repre-
sentation that the piano was an instrument
of recent construction, and as long as the
firm’s tuner called to keep the strings up to
pitch—a period of 10 or 11 years—she be-
lieved and was content. But having paid up
most of the instalments, she let an indepen-
dent tuner inspect the innards, and he came
across the name of Noah, or something simi-
lar. Then an indignant lady who didn’t
want an instrument that had jingled in the
Ark sued and got £37 10s.
* * * *
“W.D.Y.” : A horsebuyer has been round
our district purchasing for the military.
After a lot of bargaining he bought a nag
from a local cocky, delivery to be made at a
certain town next day. The prad was
delivered all right, but Cocky was so patri-
otic that he carefully removed the shoes from
the animal before handing it over.
* * * *
“Dry Shave”: Why Australian woollen
piece goods are not pushed to the front more
under the “Made in Australia” banner needs
explanation. We can weave our wool to
compare favorably with anything imported
and at a lower price. Serges, for instance.
Eight samples were tacked to a board and
exposed for 12 months on the roof of a
Sydney warehouse where the sun, rain and
dust could do their worst. When taken
down and brushed there was only one
sample that showed signs of the gruelling,
and even there the signs were hardly notice-
able. Wragg, Tagg and Co. sell these
serges by the mile, but invariably put their
own mark on them and pass the goods on
as imported. They couldn’t sell them other-
wise, so they say, although they are Is. to
Is. 6d. a yard cheaper than the foreigner.
So with worsteds. There is a worsted pro-
duced in N. S. Wales that makes the Scot-
tish stuff feel like sackcloth and it wears
like wire-netting. Has anybody heard of
that Australian brand? We made the
foreigner stamp his goods ; but we are really
more in need of a law to make Australians
do it. They’d do it fast enough, of course,
if they thought it would pay; but it won’t
pay so long as there are so many Austra-
lians who believe that the foreigner can
always do things better.
In the House of Lords a judgment has been
delivered on a queer case arising out of the
right of shippers to recover the insurance on
cargo that has not been lost. Two vessels,
the St. Andrew and Orthia, left the River
Plate with wheat and linseed for Hamburg;
but, meeting the news of the war, they put
into Liverpool, where the goods were ware-
housed. The owners of the cargo gave notice
of abandonment, but the underwriters refused
to accept the notice ; so the merchants sued
and got a verdict for £44,800 on a construc-
tive total loss of the goods by restraint of
princes. This judgment was upheld on two
appeals, the last, being to the Lords. Appar-
ently the underwriters had a right to salve
the goods that were not lost and realise, upon
them; but they didn’t do that, and time-
ravage and Costs have conspired to make
the loss greater than their dearest expecta-
tions.
* * * *
“Spreader”: As long as the Chow runs
the vegetable industry the cabbage and
tomato will be relatively high-priced. Where
there is unlimited cheap water he can
grow crops, but in Australia, although
only winter rains are necessary to
grow vegetables right into the late
spring, he raises millions of gallons
expensively. He seems incapable of dry
cultivation, though white men understand
how to keep the moisture near the surface by
continually working the ground. One Alfred
Case, of Wilberforce (N.S.W.), took £lOO
worth of tomatoes off an acre of ground last
year, and grew the fruit without artificial
watering. Within a stone’s throw was a
Chinese garden, watered by an oil engine.
The Chows soaked their tomatoes every few
days for months, but they failed to show as
high as £4O an acre. This year Wilberforce
has had the driest seasons for 50 years, yet
the “dry” cultivator is sending 100-odd cases
weekly to the Sydney markets.
“Cleveland”: I am going to buy up some
ships and resell them. According to The
Syren and Shipping for January, this is
the way these deals work out: 21 steamers
changed hands after being owned, on
an average, just under four years, and
realised on an average £28,451 per ship
more than at the last transaction. Figured
out on the tonnage basis, the mean price
was £9 Bs. 6d. per ton. The hitherto infre-
quent windjammer figured to the number of
89, and averaged slightly over £10,216 each,
or £6 16s. per ton. After an average of six
years from the last sale 11 of them realised
£4432 more per ship. Some of the cases
where the profit on steamers was more than
tuppence were: Orla, cost £40,000 in 1914,
realised £125,000 ; Freshwater, sold in Aug-
ust, 1915, for £40,000, resold in September
for £70,000; the Banffshire and Buteshire,
each with 22 years to its credit, realised
£40,000 each; the Myra Fell and Linda Fell,
each £45,000. In all, 368 steamers and 89
sailers were sold during 1915. The vendors
no doubt stood themselves another plate of
whelks when the deals were finished.
* * * *
“Quidam” : It is said that Sydney people
are getting a large supply of rabbit in their
pork sausage, and as the rabbit is a vege-
tarian, and a considerably cleaner feeder
than the hog, there is no reason why they
should worry about it, especially if they
don’t know. But a lot of rabbit is going into
pork indirectly, being used as food for pigs,
and its employment in this direction is likely
to increase. Roughly, there is about lib. of
meat on a rabbit, but as pigs eat all the
bones as well, they get more than that.
There is, at any rate, some sort of poetic
justice in the pig-crop being augmented by
this provender, as it is largely because of
poisoned rabbits that the old-time habit of
letting pigs run wild in the bush has died
out. Before rabbit poisoning started most
cockies kept a fair stock of porkers; now
only those able and willing to fence them in
and feed them can keep even a couple. Which
has much to do with the present price of
pork.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “Cliff Street” (B. 16/3/’l6)
advises “Copabella” that he can get Aus-
tralian enamelware, equal and superior to the
imported article, at Adelaide. It is not the
only good thing that can be got there. For
station and store commodities the merchants
are easily first in the Commonwealth for
featuring and pushing Australian-made
articles of all sorts. Right through the
centre of the continent, where the camel-
teams from the South meet the horse and
bullock teams of the Eastern Coast, the Ade-
laide men control the business, and their
goods pass over all store counters except
those financially held from the Eastern Coast.
Incidentally, Adelaide jams, in 21b. and
41b. tins, filled with whole fruit, beats out
all other brands.
* * * *
“Homo”: As the girl came up to the
ticket-examiner at Flinders-street she
snapped open her lunch-bag and showed the
delighted official some knitting, a pear, a
novel, five hairpins and a recipe for making
hair wash. As her metal ticket dangled
conspicuously from the bangle on her left
wrist. I couldn’t see why she had made the
examiner a sort of Customs officer. Suddenly
she blushed furiously, closed the bag and
hurried on giggling. One of her chums
explained it all to me in the train. “Oh,
that was just habit. Lena works for Bar-
gain, Shoddy and Sham, and every night
they have to open their bags as they pass
out the door to show they haven’t taken any
of the stock.”
* * * *
Livingston, .of Victoria, the most energetic
Forestry Minister the State has had since
grandpa was a boy, has been negotiating
with a section of the Western District in
regard to the partial afforestation of its
three-chain roads. The local councillor,
though boggling at the idea on account of
the possible inconvenience to sheep-shifters,
is seriously turning the matter over in his
little mind, and something may yet come of
it.
WANTED A GENERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She has gone from us for ever and in holy calm we
blink,
For she wearied us by mutt’ring blackest treason
down the sink,
And the most commodious villa seems infested by a
crowd
When a mutinous maidservant thinks her lightest
thoughts aloud.
She was lazy, she was dirty, she was impudent, she
lied,
And she slandered us quite freely in each audible
“aside”;
She was rotten at the washtub, and she muddled
with the food,
But in private we’re both grieving at the loss of
Ermyntrude.
You can hire a decent tinker if your money's there
to see,
And a lawyer’s always waiting if you’ve got his
little fee ;
Tinker, tailor, soldier, sailor, Judge or common
serving-man
Have their substitutes in plenty —but there’s none
for Mary Ann!
So we’re yearning for our liar, and we’re sighing for
our thief;
She was rank each way you took her, but she brought
us some relief;
Gone our wartime dreams of choosing from a bunch
of jobless chefs —■
Heaven hears us pleading simply for a “general
with refs.”
N.S.W.
UNCLE BOB.
THE ETIQUETTE OF DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne Undertakers’ Union has prepared
a new “white list of undertakers” on which is con-
spicuously printed an appeal: “Why live a unionist,
and then be buried by a non-unionist?”
The plumfid hearse rolled nodding by,
And round the corner turned;
The only mourner heaved a sigh,
While his tobacco burned,
And thought of poor old Bill ahead.
Did no one know that he was dead?
At intervals he poked his face
Out of the black, wheeled box,
Hoping to see he set the pace
For strings of rev’rent crocks.
But there were none! His poor old pal
Had but a sawn-off funeral!
The dead man rolled towards his tomb,
The mourner rolled behind
Smoking alone in sodden gloom ;
No comfort could he find
In this wide world if old mates fled
When one lay outed, cold and dead.
But at the cemetery gates
He heard his shouted name,
And, looking out, saw all his mates.
“Hey, Tommy, what’s the game?
Don’t foller in that blanker’s track !
The blanky undertaker’s black!”
He fi 11 from out Grief’s blackened coach ;
He stood and shook his fist,
Shouting his blasphemous reproach
At that poor unionist,
Now all boxed up and out of breath,
Who had no principles in death.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


? 4
ae
kj
5^
5
%
H-
SI
C^ S
OV)^
6
as
sa
/
3K
/
§l^
# (■
m
Pi
*#»>
j
1
is
oQ^^QiO
c?
•>
Every Motorist can
Serve Australia,
even if he cannot go
to the Front!
Every imported Tyre
bought in Australia*,
means & leak in our
resources .
Every Australian-made
DUNLOP TYRE
sold means a satisfied
motorist and money saved
—not only to Australia, but
to the Car Owner.
“Dunlops” cost less to buy—run more miles
per cover, and give maximum tyre satisfac-
tion. Always specify “Dunlops”—lt Pays!
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES
# & #
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNE
LAUNCESTON
WELLINGTON
SYDNEY ADELAIDE
PERTH BRISBANE
CHRISTCHURCH


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Hand
Mirror, Plain Design, Bevelled Mirror,
35/-
A. Saunders’ Cabinet-size
Photo Frame. Embossed Gilt
Frame, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Glove Box, Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, Silk-lined, Beautifully Embossed,
h £5/10/-
A. Saunders*
Solid Silver Hat
Rim Brush, Ham-
mered Design, Real
Bristles, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar,
Pure Silver-plated Lid, Hand en-
graved, Crystal Cut Glass,
10/6.
SPLENDID
ALL MODERATELY
PRICED.
PRESENTS
SEND EOR OUR
CATALOGUE.
-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Lady’s Purse,
Plain Design, Leather Lined, £2/2/-
BB
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set,
9 Pieces. Plain Design, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
£3/15/-
A. SAUNDERS
807-17 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Silver-mounted
Glove Stretcher, Plain
Handles, 6/6.
A. Saunders’ Serviette
Ring, Pure Silver-plated,
Embossed Edge, 4/6.
Solid Silver, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Sil-
ver Lady’s Hair Brush,
Engine-turned Design, Best
Hand-drawn Bristles, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver-
mounted Sewing Companion,
complete in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
14/6. Special value.
A. Saunders’ Oak Handkerchief Box,
Silver-plated Lettering, 10/6.
IMPROVED
Comp ass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
VST 9DIO
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, my
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough-you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled-
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings,! new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to VVrbstlr, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id, Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength. 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Fiagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
OMj Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
Cod and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
Pritisi! 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Tpun FOB ALL Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is -d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering 18 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
fos 6d. Australian Pastrycook s Guide, Is 6d
8
m
m
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for ETOHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -«
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River., 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations’ and portraits, Is; po3t
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ed.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Oabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is Sd.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Warn an’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book yoi
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Cologne
Sent Anywhere {or the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO ■
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENE
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Sta„e,
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, gea
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d cost. Bli '“ g 6<i
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical I>llu^ 1 > llu^ r 1 f M t ‘ on „’ m pi e te )
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon si obmi > P TIIIi
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions k
King, Is 2d. GdDK to Acer, onkkr.no, 25., 6d. »
History Court of England, Is 3d post. 1
Lrttkr Writer, Is. All About Incuba • a u
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, K . poc|(|rt
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. , t
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, < I[KADS
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How T 0 j
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cukvass: budgkt SoM
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Uondkrful Bom* b
Book, over 300 latest son S s, la 3d P« ,
Bennarp. Macfaddkns Works, all at ,s l^ !(}AR .
Sappho, Is. and Biscuit Im Ua!)DM ok,
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. ihk 10 oNk\v
is 2d poste'd. Fruits of Philosophy. U pos
Recitations and Readings, Is UN .
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. W "'‘Tillius leatiier
abridged Dictionary, 1,00 P a ftes, lb j an d 4
bound, my price, l;>s post paid (wn. P t
guineas). Bootmaking and AIII,NG ’ '
mos and Electric Motors. Is ?o. Mo °* doth
assistant and Complete Mechanic, 10 P^ voyAS( |,
bound. 10s 6d posted. Tub Sbchkts lUg ; c com-
is oost. 200 Old-Ttme SONGS (ivords and music


ECONOMY
being an Imperial necessity, the
use of British Avon Tyres becomes
•x ;
a patriotic duty. . .
C. The claim that Avon Tyres show
lowest cost per mile rests upon dis-
interested records of actual service,
open to investigation. It is further
supported by their exclusive
use on the 3,000 vehicles of the
world’s biggest taxicab Company.
v
ymb o l s of
ndurance t
AGENTS:
N. J. Howes 8 Co.
212 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
1
jn
T
S
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supi>ly—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Buitish Austral-
asian, (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tue
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
M
The Famous 12-Horsepower
KERMATH
MARINE and STATIONARY ENGINE.
4 Cylinders—4 Cycle Medium Speed
Complete rquipment, Inc.tiding High-
tension Magneto.
Price from £6O up.
Write for Catalogues.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Invincible Motor Construction Co.
LTD.
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
»
e*
' : -
m
■
a
y*
Restore the Voice with
EVANS
antisepticTH ROAT
Pastities
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
THE MYSTERIOUS PLANCHETTE
PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE,
REVEALED
Astonishing Results Unexplainable
Deeply Interesting. Truly Wonderful.
Replies to questions on all subjects, offers
good advice, warns of impending danger.
Well made and packed in a nice box, com-
plete with pencil, printed directions, fortune
chart, &c., for Half-a-Crown,
we pay carriage. THE UNION CO., 299
Only 2/6
Elizabeth St., Melb.
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
WILSON S COMMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498, Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Handsome Dress Albert,
New Pattern, High-class Finish,
In 15ct. Gold, SQ/-
Easter Gifts
for Men at
Stewart Dawson’s.
Soldier’s Wristlet Watch, a 15-jewel Lever, splendid
movement, specially made for dependable service.
In 9ct. Gold 84/- and 907-
In Solid Silver, 55/-; Steel, 27/6.
Special List of Suitable Presents for Soldiers sent Post Free
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Little Lectures
by Nurse 'Wincarn's
(Lecture *Jo 2.)
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an
intricate network of telegraph
wires. Controlled and nour-
ished by a portion of the
brain—known as the nerve
centres —the delicate thread-
like nerves radiate in all di-
rections throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres
are capable of continually
supplying nourishment to the
nerves, the nerves will remain
strong and healthy. But
directly the nerve centres be-
come weakened by overwork,
worry or anxiety, they are un-
able to transmit the necessary
nourishment, and the nerves
become worn out and “on
edge.” Tnen it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump’’
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
Because, being a powerful
nerve food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets
right to the root of the trouble,
and, by creating a supply of
new nerve force, stimulates
and re-vitalises the whole
nervous system. Try ‘Win-
carnis ’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it
Begin to get weli
TODAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 6-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A, MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Pi opr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.


iN.SW
D
Y
rs
ELY
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden, as in previous seasons
rendezvous of the Elite. ’
is
still the
Delightfully coo] and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners
leas, Supper and Wedding Parties and all semi open-air functions.
Afternoon
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular, central and
up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones in bedrooms com-
municating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare
favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
more than
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position Easterly Aspect
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
Whatour Troops Think
Holdsworthy Camp, 7th October, 1915.
S. Fielder, Esq., Randwick. Dear Sir—On
behalf of our Company 1 wish to state that
we have derived great benefit from your
famous Exzerma. A great number of' our
Company suffered from ire feet caused
through marching; also sunburn and chapped
lips, and were quickly cured by Exzerma.
Believe me, Yours faithfully,
Corporal Brown of the 10th, A.I.E.F.
All Chemists and Druggists, or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2 6
[1
Tie AMBEROLA
is unexcelled
as an entertainer and enables a home to
enjoy the greatest variety in music.
Illustrated is the lowest-priced of the Amber-
olas—Model X. This has an attractive
appearance, is easy to move from one room
to another, and is really high-grade.
Plays Blue Amberol Records, which means
the best of music; cabinet is fumed oak
finish ; price only £8 10s.
Call on your nearest dealer for full informa-
tion or write direct to us for printed matter.
THOMAS A.. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE PORTUGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was wild cheering in the Portuguese Parlia-
ment when it was announced that Germany had
declared war against Portugal.— Cable.
Allies of ours for a hundred years —’tis written on
parchment old —•
Allies of ours for three hundred years, and their
word is as good as gold.
Pirates like us in the days gone by, when we sailed
the Southern Seas
With one eye out for the coral reefs and one for the
Portuguese.
Pirates like us in the days of “peace,” in a
different sense of the word ;
Though it had been long on the Southern Sea since
the Portuguese oath was heard,
Pirates like us in the days that be; and the
Prussian’s eyes rolled wide
With rage and surprise when the Portugee came
nimbly over the side.
The Dutch were bluffed and the Turks were bought
in spite of the Bygone Years ;
Mahomet growled—but the Hindu fought by the
turbans from Algiers.
The “lying Greek,” lie would live enslaved, while the
Serb died to be free,
And the Bulgar snapped at the hand that saved—
but not so the Portugee!
Ships were scarce on the Southern Sea, and the Foe
seemed far away—•
And it well may be that the Portugee had dreams of
another “Day.”
And he gazed long down on the German ships that
were left to rust and rot—
It was too much for the Portugee. “We have need,”
he said, “of the lot.”
Allies of ours in the days of old (and the Spaniard
loots at ease) —
Wellington knew, in his hour of need, the worth of
the Portuguese!
They sailed of old by the Cape of Storms, and our
ships sailed in their wake : —
They are sailing now by a stormier cape, and they
sail for England’s sake!
x.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A CLEAN-UP RALE.
COLLECTOR (in aid of Returned Soldiers'
Fund): “Now, here's a pretty box of
the best French chocolates. Only four-
teen shillings."
CHOLLY : “ Aw-yes-aw! But, I say, I don't
eat sweets, y' know."
COLLECTOR: “Well, what about some soap?"
CHOLLY : “No, thanks, I really don't — aw—
that is to say, I’ll buy the whole blessed
lot!"
The diffuse Council of Churches deputa-
tionised Peacock the other day to secure a
referendum ou early pub-closiug. The
Union Jack happened to be visible on its
flagstaff outside the window, and a parson,
burbling to his frothy peroration, turned on
the usual, “When I look upon that Grand
Old Flag, and remember what it stands for,
I” “It stands for this,” snapped
Peacock. “The Governor’s arrived at the
Chief Secretary’s Department, and he’s wait-
ing for me to attend the Executive Council.”
The peroration was never finished.
Lord Robert Cecil, Minister for the illogi-
cal Blockade, stated that “as the war pro-
gressed it became clear that the list of
articles to be declared contraband must be
extended.” Always the same old Asquithian
wait-and-see. Do as little as possible, and
wait and see how much more must be done.
When Holman heard that charges of cor-
ruption were made against one of his Minis-
ters he admits that he immediately thought,
not of the shock it would be to Australia,
but of the effect it would have on Cohen.
Apparently the Government no longer fears
either God or the people. It only stands in
awe of the pawnbroker.
N.S.W. Premier Holman thus explains a
new system of railway management he has
devised for Ma:—
There should be a Chief Commissioner and assist-
ants, but the former should not have all the authority.
If they disagreed the matter in dispute could be
reported to the Ministry and a statement of the case
printed in the newspapers.
And what then? Apparently Holman wants
management of the railways by yells.
In the first week of six o’clock closing in
South Aus., the number of drunks at the
Adelaide Police Court decreased, to the great
satisfaction of those who had engineered
the change. But by the second week those-
who-will-have-it-anyway had made their
arrangements, and the numbers were just
about what they were before. “So far as we
are concerned,” a cynical officer told the
press, “there is no difference to report.
Instead of the drunks being brought in
between 11 p.m. and one, they arrive from
about eight o’clock onwards. They get here
just the same.”
Orchardist Hume Cook, once a Federal
politician with a horror of Socialism, is pat-
ting the tiger now and calling it Towser.
At a recent conference between various
State officials and representatives of fruit-
growers and retailers, Cook brought forward
a State-storage scheme for the salvation of
the apple-grower. His plan is on the
lines of the wheat pool and provides for the
establishment of an apple reserve —300,000
cases to be stored by the Government until
next July, in which month under ordinary
conditions apples begin to go up in price. It
is a simple Socialistic idea and worth a
trial.
The experience which Australians had last
year with U.S.A. and Argentine wheat, and
the fine crop of pests it brought, hasn’t;
quenched the importing habit. This year we
are trying Asia for a change, and shipments
of peas are on t% way from Kobe and
Calcutta. It is kta-ted That, in spite of
high freights, grey peas from India and
Japan can be landed in Australia at rates
lower than the recent quotations for Tas-
manian peas. That of course settles the
matter. We buy the vegetables from Asia,
and as for our own people—why, we give
them a job on a work paid for with a p.n.
which the kid will have to honor. Poor
kid !
Some party barrackers in N. S. Wales
decorated their joss with another thistle the
other day. Opposition leader Wade, orating
at a meeting of women about their duty at
the liour-of-pub-closing poll, told them to
vote for six. Whereupon he was gently
reproved by the local Telegraph, which
maundered that as the point had to be decided
by public vote it was no longer a party ques-
tion —it had been lifted to a higher • plane
and so on. Wade’s reply was one of cordial
approval. Neither AVade nor the Tele-
graph recalled that a little while ago they
roared through megaphones day and night
for several weeks that the Federal referenda
would have “plunged the country into a fierce
party conflict,” and “abruptly divided the
community into warring party camps.”
Tasmanian Labor Leader Earle disposed
of the idea of a coalition or elective Minis-
try, an idea which two of the ablest members
of his party, Treasurer Lyons and Mines
Minister Ogden, favored—at any rate, under
present conditions —by saying that it was
impracticable and that “oil and water will
not mix.” The latter remark seems to mean
that the two parties hate each other so much
that they must go on wrangling to the
bitter end, and damn the country! So
Earle and his crowd pass out and Lee and
such colleagues as the Liberal caucus sees fit
to give him come in. Independent Whitsitt
lias promised Lee a square deal and general
support. With him the Libs, will have 16
men and the Labs. 14, and the good old party
see-saw will go on. The Mt. Lyell Co. gives
general manager Sticht just about the same
salary as the State’s Ministers cut up
between them, and he has run the great con-
cern successfully for 20 years. But the
State doesn’t employ a Sticht merely
because lie knows his job, and wouldn’t keep
him even if he had proved it. The Labor
Ministers were just beginning to learn some-
thing about their work; now they are pitched
out and a new lot of apprentices come in to
be half-taught their trade at the expense of
the taxpayers.
Victoria has just started a new political
body—the Farmers’ Union. Its policy is as
old and as bald as the name; and it is em-
ploying the old, bald device of trying to com-
bat “organised unionism” by the formation
of branches and divisional councils and a
State council. The aim of the concern is to
secure “a fuller and more aggressive repre-
sentation in Parliament,” and that will help
about tuppence. What the farmers want is
co-operation to do things, not to say things.
FACE TO FACE.
The P.U.L. Conference is to meet in Sydney at
Easter.
HOLMAN : “’ S'orlright—everything in gar-
den'sh lovely."
The Yic. Education Dept, has a number
of old sins to atone for. It was wont to
grant audacious German demands for un-
English educational facilities, as, for in-
stance, "when it allowed the Hun residents in
the llorsham-Natimuk district to build their
own school, where a German teacher could
train up their offspring in the way they
should think. The State school being closed
when the foreign school was established, the
children of local British stock bad to go
miles away to get educated as young Aus-
tralians. This system of Germanising the
natives was cloaked with sectarian pretence,
the “naturalised” and unnaturalised aliens
getting permission to build “Lutheran”
schools. This paper doesn’t know whether
the schools produced any Lutherans or not.
It knows that they produced plenty of viru-
lent anti-Australians.
Albert Mullett, Government Printer for
Victoria, is continuing his agitation on
behalf of paper-production from Australian
wood pulp. At a recent small but solid
Town Hall meeting of citizens interested in
establishing industries likely to benefit the
returned soldier, Mullett declared that a
million and a half sovs. are being spent
each year outside Australia for this country’s
paper or pulp. Mullett considers mountain
ash the right timber for pulp-making, and he
recommends it only after considerable experi-
ment. Livingston, the Minister, has had
numerous reports made on the subject, and
they differ in an extraordinary manner. But
it is part of a Minister’s job to decide when
one expert says “Can’t,” another “Might”
and a third “Why, cert’nly !” The optimist
shouldn’t be cold-shouldered because the
pessimist has another opinion, and the inde-
pendent say-so of the State’s own boss-
printer ought to be worth sorfietliihg—•
especially when he says “Go ahead and try!”
Cabinet, having decided to nationalise the
means of production, distribution and ex-
change, handed the matter over to the
Minister for Shirks. Ten years later the
Minister made a statement on the subject:—
It is scandalously unfair to charge the Ministry
with delay in this matter. Immediately we resolved
upon putting our policy into execution I directed an
officer of my Department to make himself acquainted
with the whole problem, and, at his request, appointed
a total stranger, who said he knew all about it, to
draw up a scheme. He did not say anything about
any pay, and I forgot to mention it to him. These
two men have been carrying on their job ever since,
and though I have twice rung one of them up and
inquired whether he had a scheme prepared, he said
there was nothing doing. As my colleagues are most
anxious to put their programme into operation, you
can rely upon it that everything is being given close
consideration, and that no money has been lost.
(Cheers.)
°ne of the first jobs to be undertaken bv
Hughes s National Department of Science
will be to discover a method of removing the
smell from petrol.
The dull, unimaginative Wade has
deputy-leader in the N.S.W. Assembly now
George Fuller having been appointed. Fuller’
who made a brilliant start at Sydney Uni'
is a barrister by trade, too; but he' hasn’t
kept his nose to the legal grindstone, and
has mixed country interests with politics for
the last 20 years. His habit is to pour in
oil where Wade is liable to dribble in sand
WHY AND WHEREFORE.
EDITOR: “By George , when I look at your
drawings I have to sit and wonder."
ARTIST: “Ah! How I do them?"
EDITOR: “No; why you do them."
Before N. S. Wales starts any more
negotiations for the purchase of businesses.
Attorney-General Hall ought to appoint one
of his price-fixing Boards for the great Spoils
industry.
STRANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Strange are the tales that ancient travellers tell
Of signs and wonders seen by land and sea,
And weird things that in far-otf years befell*
Beyond the rim of proven history.
Old myths take on the forms of sober truth
The nursery pageant moves with r.eal kings.
King Cole has Parliaments, Jack Horner’s tooth
Bites at a bigger plum than Christmas brings;
While Jack-the-giant-killer wins to grace
And whiskers with a Norse god’s shining face.
Helen was mixed in scandalous affairs,
Troy really fell before the conquering Greek,
The deities who floated down the airs,
Or roosted on the high Olympian peak,
As like as not were merely folk who soared
In rhetoric or song above the crowd
Until the public, getting sick and bored,
Hoisted them skyward on a little cloud
Of sudden incense, delicate and light,
Provoked by plugs of ancient dynamite.
Plain fact gets fiction absolutely down
And dances sixteen ways upon its head;
And science cooks to fragrant gravy-brown
The old remarks of youngest sceptic's dead.
The worst credulity has honored place
When Exploration, toiling with a spade,
Pulls forth the proof that dusty dreamers chase
And mocks the doubter who was half afraid
To trust his instinct that these skies beneath
Were actual warriors sprung from dragon’s teeth.
’Tis a crank world, my masters. All things move
To make a human brain serene and cool,
And, having made it, by plain facts to prove
The owner of the article a fool.
Twisted, involved, and ravelled as a string
Played with by fifty kittens for a year,
Is all to which the mind of man may cling;
And science babbles like a wight in beer.
From term to term our swift descriptions range,
Then sag and sizzle to the one word—strange!
Strange are the Pyramids, the rocks, the sun,
Amelia’s habits, pastry made by Jane,
Cat's whiskers, kerosene, the cobwebs spun
Under most honored hats, French braces, brain,
Soap, sausages, the tales of ancient Greece,
Jews, tadpoles, Toltee masonry in stone,
State fish, red whiskers, cold potatoes, peace
And every blessed thing, that we have known—
Let them all pass ; but reason reels and fails
At Labor’s policy in New South Wales!
v.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Ask for Catalog.
IT IS FREE.
Wi
m
111
-: V
EASY TERMS
if you wish.
Easter Visitors and
Our Country Customers
Welcome to PALING’S
V OXJ are specially invited to looK through
our great Piano, Player Piano, Organ
and Music Warehouse. There on three
floors you. will see an unequalled exhibition
of the very finest Pianos, Player Pianos and
Organs that the world produces in their
various grades.
Each instrument we sell is fully guar-
anteed for Tone, Durability and Satis faction,
and will, witb reasonable care, give faitbful
service for a lifetime -as an investment for
your children you cannot get better value at
the prices asked. Remember, we are experts
witb over 03 years* experience.
If you have a second-hand piano we shall be pleased to
value it free of charge and take it in exchange for a
new piano, player piano or organ. Will you call in to-day ?
. PALINC & CO. LTD.
Est
1853.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba and Lismore.
Sole Agents for Chappell, Sames, Estey and Victor Pianos / also Estey Organs.
The Big Picture Shows
USE A
POWER S 6‘ BIOSCOPE
There’s a Good Reason —
It is the Best.
N saying that the Powers Camera-
graph 6B is the latest and best in
motion-picture machines, we are
not giving our own private opinion.
It is the opinion of the leading
operators in the world.
The machine constitutes all the
most necessary and desirable
features in modern, up-to-to-date projection that
years of study, experiments and experience have
adduced, and is designed to give perfect satisfaction
under any and all conditions.
The mechanism has reached the highest point of
excellence through the use of the finest material,
with best of workmanship for each part, giving
proper study to its particular function.
However we do not ask you to believe anything
that we cannot prove by practical demonstration.
We will be pleased to give you the fullest
particulars, prices, etc., and
A PRACTICAL DEMONSTRATION
at your convenience.
Write to us about this machine while they are still
available.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA l
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z.
Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
AuloStrop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other safety r;tzor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VALET” on RAZORS,
THOPS and BLADES indicates the srenuine product of the
■ ••f->stro|> Safety Razor 0« . Ltd., 01 New Oxford Street.
London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compr s-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safety razor, first quality
*'Valet" horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
“Valet" blades, the
whole n hand'ome
leather - covered or
nickel case, lined 99/6
velvet and satin


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
No matter how fiendishly clever be Hun-
nish treachery and devices, nothing but
stupidity could seek to cow the world by
frightfulness, declares that wise spirit, King
George IV. top-notch Scotch.— Advt.
i
If you are
anxious to de-
velop your tal-
ent for Draw-
ing so that
you can make
money,
COPY THIS
SKETCH
and send it to
us for FREE
CRITICISM,
lilac k-a n d-
white artists are well paid for their
sketches, and the work is extremely
interesting. If you have any liking for
drawing at all just copy this face and
let us see what you can do with it.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF SKETCHING
_ Dept. 82, Bond Street, Sydney.
rv
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne be sure
to stay at “Scott’s.” For comfort,
sumptuousness and convenience no other
hotel can compare with it. Private-
attendance-’phones in all rooms, and Hot
and Cold Water in Bedrooms. ' Single
Room or “Private-Suite” Accommodation.
SCOnS HOTEL
Collins St Melbourne
Telegrams —“ Scott’s,” Melbourne.
Wanted.
SAMOA.
BRITISH CAPITAL required for Plantations and
trading. Principals only. Apply in first instance
to “Planter,” c/o Gordon & Gotch Ltd., Sydnej,
N.S.W.
PLANTATION MANAGER WANTED FOR SAMOA.
PREFERENCE given to applicant with some ex-
perience of RUBBER and ineligible for militar)
service. Good salary and prospects. Apply in first
instance to “Planter,” c/o Gordon & Gotch w
Sydney, N.S.W. .
Public Notices. ■
To Manufacturers, Proprietors of
Hotels, Restaurants, Tea-rooms, am
the Public Generally.
cr PECIAL attention is directed to the very import
° ant and interesting Patent owned by JAOAsui
BOILERS LTD. of England, No. 19797 of 31st Octo
ber, 1910, for “Improvements in or
self-feeding water-boilers and the like. ’ hnilprs
The invention relates to self-feeding water-boiler,
and the like wherein water can be raised yncuy
the boiling-point for tea- and coffee-making
other like purposes ; and the invention also tra(Je
many novelties. A large and highly-pro a ities,
is being carried on with the Jackson P
which enjoy a great reputation in the Commo
of Australia and New Zealand, and ve ss f u p
invention in England have been extreme y • q_
For full particulars kindly apply to i , - )
Sachse, C.E., Patent Attorney, corner of Collins
William Streets, Melbourne.
Melbourne, the 11th April, 1916.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sixty entries for the two Easter jumping
events at Randwick—and nice Chinese puzzles they
look on paper. Of course the patient public has
something sorted out already, and will ask for it in
awed whispers while Jerusalem frowningly quotes 6
to 4. Any ink that may be shed by the scratching
pen will only put Ikey in a more business-like frame
of mind and incite him to yell “Evens!” In fact,
it is not uncommon at Randwick to see odds laid on
jumpers, nor is it a great novelty to there see the
pot gracefully turn a somersault. Has anyone ever
measured the degree of insanity represented by taking
evens in ’urdles?
From Tiie Bulletin’s old-established
Melbourne prophet: The popular Victorian hopes for
the Easter double at Randwick are the two P’s—
Pilbarra and Patrobas. Pilbarm is fancied for the
Doncaster on his track form both before and after
the triumphs of his stable-companion Amata; his
trainer must have made a great miscalculation if
Westralian Connelly’s horse is not better than Amata
at the weights. He has certainly been backed for a
lot of money—straight out and in doubles with
Corstep. As for Patrobas’s chance of winning Sydney
Cup, his admirers are hanging on to the belief that
lys recent running can be explained away, and that
he will presently bloom again as he bloomed in the
Spring. But the son of Wallace has to beat Cetigne
in the A.J.C. Leger before his Cup chance can look
rosy. If Patrobas can’t do that, I would sooner put
my tuppence on Green Cap (7st. 71b.) or King Marco
(7st. 51b.) for the two-miles race. Some good judges
reckon that Green Cap is quite a moral for the Cup,
and the wicked-tempered K. Marco is a brilliant pony
at times. This time he has only a pony’s weight in
B'oth the Doncaster and the Cup.' His temper and his
smallness are against him in a crowded field for a
mile race, where bumps are many and lucky openings
are few.
* * * *
According to recent reports Eurobin is
looking remarkably well again. In which case he
should be worth whenever he is saddled-
up at the Randwick meeting.
* * * *
Punters who went to the Hawkesbury
meeting on Saturday in search of light and guidance
regarding Sydney Cup saw the imported horse Green
Cap do all that was asked of him. Carrying 7st. 111 b.,
which is 41b. more than he will be burdened with at
Randwick, and starting at 6 to 4, he ran the mile
and three furlongs in 2min. 21sec., beating a field in
which were Wishing Cap, Ulva's Isle, Prince Bardolph
and the Fortune Hunter. But taking everything into
consideration it was not a performance to make much
iioise about. At least one or two of the starters were
not excessively bustled on the journey. Still, Green
Cap has done good work on the track since coming to
Sydney, and, provided he will stay, njust be given a
fair chance in the big race. So, too; must Patrobas
and Cetinge and Wishing Cap, and with 7st. 31b.
Prince Bardolph is not to be disregarded.
• * * *
The stipendiary stewards who control
South Aus. racing put their foot down unexpectedly
at the Gawler meeting by barring an entry for the
Maiden Plate. The owner argued that the previous
win alleged should not count, being only 30s. at a
.“picnic” meeting. But the stewards explained,
politely though firmly, that, in this as in other
matters, when you have as a fact ceased to be a
maiden the excuse “It was only a little one” does
not do any good at all.
* * * *
A. P. Bowman, the Adelaide owner, is
getting a name for bringing out hurdle racers which
pay enormous dividends at their first time of win-
ning, Over £5O and twice over £4O are the figures
for his last three discoveries. In the latest case it
was £42 18s., and even then the generous totalisator
had enough left to hand out £1 10s. to backers of
Hie second.
“F.H.” : The result of the Mentone Handi-
cap provided further data for the tote-advocate.
There were 17 starters. Two rank outsiders at 20’s
were Sir Traquair and St. Pierre. No longer odds
were offered against any other horse in the race,
though there were 17 starters. Sir Traquair won,
with St. Pierre in second place, a neck behind. Of
course, nobody got paid on St. Pierre, the tote not
being in commission that day. But what a divvy
would have been coming for this second horse had
the tote been installed !
* * * *
Warstep, the wonderful mare that shook
things up on the Maoriland tracks two seasons ago,
has been definitely retired, and goes to the stud to
be mated this year with Solferino.
■% * * *
When Desert Gold bolted with the North
Island Challenge Stakes at Wellington the other
day she lifted her earnings on the racecourse to
£10,415, which is the tallest amount ever bagged
by a speed animal in Maoriland. The previous best
was Warstep’s £10,210. As a three-year-old Desert
Gold has started 10 times and been first home on
each occasion. "With 16 wins, five seconds and one
third against her name she owns the unique record
of having returned some kind of a dividend to her
supporters after every start with the exception of
her first race. That was when she ran third.
Diamond Jubilee wound up last season an
easy first amongst the winning sires in the Argen-
tine, his stock having collared 77 good races worth
£42,532. He was bred in England, and is a St.
Simon horse.
* * * *
“Swish”: Premier Holman is trying to
keep racings clubs from lifting out of Ikey’s bag the
additional taxation imposed on the club's revenue
drawn from bookmakers’ fees. His anxiety about the
passing on of this tax looks queer. Whether the
dub or Ikey appears to pay is immaterial. The pub-
lic provides the gilt. Whatever sum the tax-gatherer
takes from the racecourse has been carried there
first of all by the man who pays at the gate and
takes 6 to 4 about something with a 10 to 1 chance.
The State doesn’t really tax either Ikey or the club
—it merely comes along and makes another to get a
hand in Bill Smith’s pocket. Under the totalisator
system the result is the same, with this exception—
that B. Smith sees exactly how much is being dredged
out of his purse. Say it is worked on alO per cent,
basis and £l2OO has been piled on the assorted nags
in the Crying Shame Handicap by the assembled
Smiths, 54 of whom have backed Doitnow, the winner l
and 765 are on Inewbetter, which inspected the pro-
cession from the rear. In that case 1200 Bill Smiths
see £l2O raked off and £lOBO cut up among 54 of
them, who draw £2O apiece; and the Inewbetters
know where it all went and what they paid for their
fun. But with Noses and the bag in operation the
people who provide the £l2OO don’t know what
becomes of it.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: John McArthur, of Menin-
goort station (Vic.), has published some of his
reasons for objecting to the curtailment of racing.
The chief is that “a blow would be given to the
great national industry of light-horse breeding.”
Well, after all these years of fostering our “great
national industry” by horse-racing, Australia shows
dreadful results. The early war-purchases proved
that; and the later deals proved it more —a lot more.
And what has McArthur to say concerning the racing
of “speedy squibs”-—the little horses, rejects of a
hundred stables, animals which are no good to
anyone except as betting-vehicles? As for unemploy-
ment caused by curtailment of racing, a point which
McArthur also puts forward, there are a good many
producing industries in this country which still have
room for men. Probably McArthur himself could find
room for a hundred or two on Meningoort if he
patriotically put his land to its fullest use. There
may be no good reasons for sub-editing race-
meetings ; but John McArthur hasn’t discovered the
right reasons for leaving the things untouched.
* * * *
“Musketoon” : When young and foolish I
gave a roll of notes a chance at Randwick. Earned
it very hard, too —ten weeks in the shearing sheds.
First man I ran across was a chap with a gingham,
on which he was shuffling three cards. It was 'lead
easy ; and the player got three of the quids. Then a kind
old lady whose son-in-law knew a friend of the
jockey’s sister, told me of a good thing for the big
race. Put a fiver on it, and Ikey wore a large
smile; and the end of it was that I got away with
3d. Luckily a bed had been paid for before starting
out, and, carefully stowing away the thrum on the
dressing-table, I turned in. An hour later the porter
showed a gay old rooster in, and said he was going
to occupy the other bed; whereupon the stranger
commenced to peel off and pour money on top of
my capital. I had noticed him boozing up and
collecting from MeShortodds earlier in the day.
What a stack he pulled out! After dressing in the
morning I walked over to the table and examined the
gold and parchment pile. The cove in bed was eye-
ing me steadily. He didn’t know how much money
he had left there when I asked him. “Well, yours
seems to be mixed up with mine,” I volunteered. The
old sport replied that he had a good win, and that
the fairest way out would be to divide the lot.
After an argument over the loose silver, which I
tossed him for and won, my share turned out to be
£137 14s. 3d. I travelled back to Forbes in a
sleeping-car.
FRED PORTER, of Vic. stoush circles,
gases with rapture at the performance of a
pupil.
V.R.C. meinbers had an election the other
afternoon. The death of old John Turnbull, of
Toorak, had left a vacancy on the committee, and
Fred Fairbairn, of Woolbrook, and William Gaunson
battled for the office. The votes polled were 612, and
the grazier got 480 of them.
Fritz Holland, having shed sufficient meat
to bring what was left of him inside the welter
limit, collided with Tommy Uren at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday, and won on points, mainly because
Fritz is a skilful, wily old bird and knows how to
keep his face out of trouble. They made a good
even fight of it, and of eourse there were any number
of people prepared to swear by all their adjectives
that referee Scott was wrong. But if he had said the
other thing he would have been more wrong, which
is why he very properly didn’t.
-** * *
Darcy, who was a lean and hungry-looking
pug when he interviewed “K. 0.” Brown at Sydney
Stadium, got himself upper-cut and outed the other
day, and the matter of hitting someone on the jaw
during Easter stands adjourned. Darcy tried to
“put one over’’ the influenza microbe, blit it didn’t
come off. So they carried him tenderly away and put
him to bed. Saturday’s fixture will therefore consist
of a disturbance between Jimmy Clabby and Fritz
Holland. On Monday Herb McCoy and Harry Stone.
* * * *
The Greek-American Brown gathered his
dollars together this week and departed for Chicago
in search of the remainder of that devastating
wallop he left behind. Brown was not a tremendous
success, in Australia, but he was well-matched and
made more money than usual. “Red” Watson will
have to look for his next fight somewhere else
also. The recent controversy with Nicol Simpson at
Melbourne filled the Stadium people right up. It
was a bit too hot.
* * * #
“Trot”: The big international wrestling
contests at New York have brushed up the game in
the States, and it is not unlikely that Frank Gotch
will get on to the mat again. Anyhow, he is testing
himself in private and promising 'if he has not lost
strength and speed to come out and give Stecher and
Strangler’’ Lewis a go. The curse of wrestling is
the attraction it has for the large, mountainous per-
son who ought to be working as a crane somewhere,
lhan watching one of these elephantine individuals
resting ponderously on the floor while another grunts
and sweats in vain efforts to turn the mass of meat
over is only less dreary than contemplating what
follows when No. 2, being exhausted, gets underneath
for a spell, and No. 1 becomes a panting aggressor
But among lightweights and middleweights wrestling
can be made one of the most attractive forms of
athletics, a well-matched pair settling an argument
this way being a dashed sight more interesting than
are a lot of the pugs who get good cash for showing
what horribly poor boxers they are. And a good
wrestler is always an athlete. A pug isn’t.
Having recently been rejected for active
service, W. H. Brown, the St. Stephen’s harrier, who
is branded as the Vic. one-mile and 10-mile amateur
champion, has determined to give the records a
jolt. In the recent St. Pat.’s Day Sports he failed
to upset Emil Voigt’s two-mile figures (9min. 38
l-ssec.), but at the Eight-Hour Sports at the Exhibi-
tion he set after the mile record (4min. 25
hoisted by the Yankee runner Jimmy Power in
Melbourne two years ago. Brown reeled off the
eight furlongs in 4min. 26see, and then found that
the track was 11yds. short. Now he is getting
himself geared vrn again to give his brothers some
hurry-up next time. Since the departure of Olympic
champion Emil Voigt, Brown is easily the best track
runner in Victoria. He’s a postman, so gets plenty
exercise.
Last year the Vic. Amateur Athletic Asso-
ciation, in a moment of frenzied patriotism,
decided to indefinitely hang up its affairs, as far as
championship events were concerned. Early this year
the Walkers’ Club applied for, and received, per-
mission from the parent body to conduct its annual
10-mile heel-and-toe championship for a pot and the
title. Two months later, at the annual harangue, a
motion was carried, after a fierce struggle, tljat no
championships be held. Meanwhile, the walkers
kept quiet, and a week before their contest the
executive of the association held a Whr council and
forbade the hoof-padders to conduct the event as a
Victorian championship. Undaunted, the walkers
defied the association and held the 10-mjle tramp
last week. It was annexed by William Pitt (a
Birmingham import), who left a horrible gap of
some 500yds. between himself and the next man. The
watches recorded lhr. 22min. Bsec. for the journey.
On Wednesday night despatches were laid before the
council, which ratified the action taken by the
executive, as it was contended the decision arrived
at last year covered all events, and that the: associa-
tion had no power to give permission. Since then
the anguished walkers have been filling the air with
wail.
* * * *
A very strong movement is going on in
Adelaide to have some football this winter, in spite
of the League’s resolution not to. It calls itself a
Patriotic Football movement, promises to reduce
expenses to a minimum, hand over all profits to
war funds, and have recruiting-sergeants among the
crowd at every match. It has a hard road to travel.
The League naturally considers it a blackleg, the
Premier has denounced it, and the Cricket Association
and Port Adelaide corporation refuse it the use of
the two chief ovals. Still the promoters go on. They
argue that obviously—for railway, manufacturing, and
other reasons—not every able-bodied man can go to
war, and the remaining ones need to keep themselves
fit by hard sport. And, as they justly remark, why
denounce them and leave out the frequenters of
picture-show and racecourse?
Melbourne rowing men saw a queer develop-
ment the other Saturday. The senior eights of
Hawthorn and Albert Park had pulled a few strokes
of a race when No. 6 in the Hawthorn boat broke his
stretcher, and while he was cursing his luck No. 6 in
the Park crew snapped his oar. On the spur of the
moment both eights stopped rowing;
then, realising that the crews were
square on Luck's deal, both the useless
men dived overboard and the remaining
seven raced away. After a hot struggle
the lake-side men got home by half a
length. About 20 years ago an oarsman
in an inter-State crew broke his oar and
dived off the boat, but the fact of two men being
concerned in a like happening is probably a record.
* * * *
Bardsley, the crack N. S. Wales left-
handed batsman, followed Macartney into camp as
soon as the cricket season ended. N. S. Wales rep.
cricketers in khaki include Massie, Kelleway, Minnett
and Cotter. Massie, three times wounded, goes away
again as captain on a brigade staff.
* * * *
To close the Victorian Cricket Associa-
tion’s season there were neither final nor semi-final
matches, and the round of club games left East on
top, with M.C.C. runners-up. The leaders owe their
position largely to old Peter McAlister. St. Kilda
dropped from its erst high position in the playing
field owing to having sent its manly strength to
battle with the Potsdam devils. What with football
confined to four teams, racing greatly restricted, and
pony-scurries on the point of being blotted out, Vic-
toria threatens to grasp the fact that it is at war.
* * * *
Sydney grade cricket siftings: Centuries
scored, 31; J. S. Taylor (West. Subs.) and J. M.
Taylor (Pet.) each scoring three, and N. Callaway,
11. Davis and F. Foster two each. A. Mailey CL4
wickets for 96) and C. N. Grimmett (14 for' 115)
gathered most wickets in a match ; J. D. Scott (nine
for 42) greatest number of wickets in an innings.
P. W. Dive performed the only hat-trick. Some-
thing in a class by itself was* done by Rex Nor-
man (Glebe), who in eight-ball overs* bowled 22
maidens out of 169.
* * * *
An Australian motor-cycle record tumbled
off the slate the other day when Tasmanian dare-
devil S. Stearns blew over five miles in 4min.
40 2-ssec. —2 2-ssec. better than Jack Booth’s previous
best. Stearns averaged 64 miles an hour.
* * * *
There was a furious boil-over in Sydney
last week when Henry Moses and H. Lawson (last
year’s premiers) met B. Spendelove and E. Harber
for the pairs bowling championship. The game looked
all over, with the champions leading 15 —2 ; then
the others put both feet on the mat and won by
30—20. J
* * * *
N.S.W. baseball trouble ended in a victory
for the National League. Last season the Baseball
Association disqualified over 300 players who took
part in the summer competition under the League ;
but now when the B.A. begins to count noses for
the coming season it finds that in trying to molest
the League it killed itself. The League starts off
with over 50 clubs in three grades. The asS( v.,v
shifts its energies towards schools and iunior ??
and is chanting a requiem over its foolishnek ’
Alf Edward, who drops into the preside,,
of N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union, gets the reward ft
service. Over many years he was secretary ,S 5
vice-president. As a rider he holds such distLof
as there may be in having been the first to
from Sydney to Melbourne 8 That was away S
in 83. Mounted on an old “ordinary” Edward w
to push 8i days to do the journey. d had
* * * #
Christchurch (M.L.) recently dug out .
bov swimmer named C. Orchard who looks m
becoming a champion. Though only just 14 he ho
carried off the schools championship of Canterbury
(M.L.) by annexing every event in the series- tv,'!
25yds. in 15 l-ssec. ; the 50yds. in 34 4-illc-
75yds in 54sec. and the 150yds. in 2min.'9 seo
Besides he has won several local championships
a number of handicap events. His dad is Si,i
Orchard, once famous as a Rugby fullback. Q
* * *
“Mimosa” (from Cairo) : About “Monta
lex” and his statement (B. 27/l/’l6) that he doe,
not believe young pointer dogs will point naturally
but that wellbred puppies acquire the habit easib
from seeing an older dog at work. My experience
gained principally in S’Africa, where there are good
dogs and plenty of work for them, is different A
high-bred pup of sound working strain, unspoiled bv
freedom with other dogs, will invariably show the
natural instinct. A few years back I bought a
pup, and took delivery of him at 10 days old He
was placed in his kennel in a small enclosure’, At
four months old I let him out for a day or two, and
the first bit of sport he had was to round up a clutch
of chickens, at the same time showing the pointing
abilities of a trained dog. This pup had never seen
another dog working. 1 know a man who is a past-
master in training these dogs to work. Not until a
pup is 12 months old will he allow it to work or see
other dogs working nor be in their company. When
six months old the actual training begins, and
another half-year passes before the youngster is tried
on anything alive. This trainer allowed no one to
handle the puppies but himself. When having meals
he brings the pups into the room, spreads their food
on different plates upon the floor, hut all within
reach of his correction-whip, and only allows the
animals to watch the plates until he has finished eat-
ing. When he is ready he sharply gives a command,
which they soon learn means permission to eat. I
have seen many of these pups so trained taken out
for a trial on quail, and they worked steadily straight
away and without showing any inclination to flush
the birds. But I have never known one of either the
Spanish or German breed, no matter how well-bred,
trained or well-fed, that would not steal the roast of
beef out of the stove if the oven-door happened to be
open.
* * * *
“Bishop’s Diagonal”: Chess-players will
note with interest that the Kaiser has sold certain
of his castles to help pay the war bill , and keep the
Allies at a safe distance. To use the technical phrase,
“castling to avoid check.”
* * * *
“Swaddie”: Billo was pinched for
gambling and invited to meet his squadron leader.
“Seven days C. 8.,” said the officer. “Now, look
here, Major,” chimes Bill; “you’re a sport yourself.
I’ll toss you —14 days or nothing.”
“Spraggs”: Brady was skiting about his
marvellous reach. He bet drinks all round that from
tip to tip of his fingers he could stretch further than
any man in the crowded room. The recruiting-ser-
geant, a tall man back from war, minus a bit of
one hand, said he’d take the bet on. Brady felt
there was something wrong about the proceedings,
but he was well “corned,” and made his sprawl
across the wall. “I win,” he said beerily. “You
lose,” replied the soldier. “My other fingers are
over at Gallipoli.”
* * * *
“N.vm” : An old-man cod that had beaten
the anglers for some seasons past came to a grati-
frying end in the Loddon (Vic.) t’other week end.
When its captor hauled it to the surface he almost
threw a fit at its battle-scarred appearance. Then
someone appeared with a gun and killed the grand-
father of all cods hurriedly. The warrior weighed
over 431 b., and bore evidences of many a mighty
tussle. The remnants of about 200 hooks were about
its body and head. Notwithstanding its size and
apparent age, steaks hacked from its carcase ate
tender.


The Law of Self-Defence Demands You to
Learn to Box
vo°u tho'' i 1 i *' l te< 1 for your self-preservation. Nature
u you , rno best possible weapons—your fists and vet-
unthinking neglect, you cannot use them to best advantage ’ g
wav as° n to fa°ke eveVadvanTT* 0 to us - e your hands in a scientific
of ay yo,°r aS we?ght beS to thc whole
ODDonent’s wpak c n nt**? v ulo ' vs ’ anc J plant them squarely on your
own home! kP * ? Y Can nOW become a skilful boxer in your
v 1 TEACH BOXING BY POST
in such a thorough manner that you’ll rapidly
simnb? /n°d Ur nat f U - ral , ability< The instruction is
simple and practical. It is a really eniovable
nnd rSe J which you’ll get no end of“ enjoyment,
proof-— ty ° f health-giving exercise as well. Here's
t pc, 3 am i . for 'y ardi ns answers to questions on
rw«f S t l5 and J 6 of your Scientific Boxing
Course. I atm'get ting along splendidly, and lam
enjoying much better health since I started the
exercises.—S. Mt?P., Tooraweenah, N.S.W.”
Iq „ N °W’ don’t delay a moment longer in obeying the
et n e ' • Write for niy illustrated book-
let, Scientific Boxing in Your Home," which gives
fuller particulars and cost of tuition. Just write
y °H r f name a ™!. address on this advertisement and
post to me. 111 know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
486 Belmont Buildings
SYDNEY.
high Hills Look Low
on the
0
Write for Catalogue *‘d. m
(
7JT6S
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne
The wounded
RED CROSS CONVEYANCES
OF THE ALLIED FORCES
1 are run on
SHELL
BENZINE
Ll
v«y
H
TtfE BRmSHJMPjRIAL OIL C? IT?
Lloyd’s (London)
BRIAR PIPES.
4/6
48 SHAPES
ALL ONE PRICE.
4/6
If you want a Pipe that will enable you
to get the utmost enjoyment from your
favorite tobacco, try one of these famous
briars.
They are really most exceptional value.
Ihe Mounts are English Hall-marked Silver,
and each pipe is guaranteed not to crack or
burn within a reasonable time.
ANY SHAPE— 4/6 POST FREE.
No. 4
No. 9
No. 10
No. 3
My Catalog of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Cigars,
vipes, etc., will interest all smokers. Send
tor a free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
COOL
AND
SWEET
a?
oO
c
\0
$
s
m
CUT
AND
PLUG
ITH? COMIC Bo©lCl
— : —
A senous subject merrily served njv It will
*et the table in a roax. Cookery is regarded as-
a most prosaic matter, but this book presents it
in a wildly humorous way. The many recipes
are utterly ridiculous, the household hints are
extravagantly funny and mirth provoking, and
the domestic advice is absurdly nonsensical.
It is just the thing to present to a young bride by way of a
sprightly joke. Price 1/3, posted anywhere. Obtainable
only from Thp Union Co.t 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
This Wife
and Mother
Wishes to tell you FREE
How She Stopped Her
Husband’s Drinking.
By all Means Write to Her
and Learn How She Did It.
For over 20 years James Anderson, of
963 Elm Ave., Hillburn, N.Y., U.S.A., was a
very hard drinker. His case seemed a hope-
m
less one, but 10 years
ago his wife, in their own
little home, gave him
a simple remedy which,
much to her delight,
stopped his drinking
entirely.
To make sure that
the remedy was respon-
sible for this happy re-
sult she also tried it on
her brother and several
of her neighbors. It
was successful in every
case. None of them has
touched a drop of in-
toxicating liquor since.
She now wishes everyone who has drunk-
enness in their homes to try this simple
remedy, for she feels sure that it will do as
much for others as it has for her. It can be
given secretly if desired, and without cost
she will gladly and willingly tell you what it
is. All you have to do is write her a letter
asking her how she cured her husband of
drinking, and she will reply by return mail
in a sealed envelope. As she has nothing to
sell do not send her money. Simply send a
letter with all confidence to Mrs. Margaret
Anderson at the address given above, taking
care to write your name and full address
plainly. (We earnestly advise every one of
our readers who wishes to cure a dear one
of drunkenness to write to this lady to-day.
Her offer is a sincere one.)*
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Selling Agents for
Broken Hill Proprietary C«. Ltd
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.vS.W.
RIGNEY SHOES
If you are influenced by quality, fine style
and good value in the selection of your foot-
wear, you will find complete satisfaction in
Rigney Shoes.
We illustrate a High-grade, Patent Kid
Golosh Ball, with Interwoven Glace Kid Leg.
Very light soles and hand-sewn welts.
Price - 40-
Also in Tan Willow Calf... 37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
SSSSHSS3
w
SfjßMo^
w TYRES \
ALL BRITISH
3
U
THREE
RIBBED
TYRES
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists :
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
CO I lON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
P C R.-~60
DIAMONDS REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY
Four years ago we took on a Sole Agency, calling for an enormous
output of diamonds, and, with a view to making the turnover, we ottered
them at merely a broker’s commission on the Antwerp cutter's cost.
It barely paid us the first year, the second year the Sales were so
great it did better, and the third year better still, and so we are
continuing the experiment further.
We only stock the best grade of Diamonds, but our prices are THE
LOW EST.
There is no duty on Diamonds.
We are the Sole Agents for one of the largest cutters of Antwerp and
Amsterdam.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES- -CASH ONLY.
25 and 25 Hunter Street
Choice Whole
and Diamonds,
Platinum, with
Platinum Neck
choicely cased,
Pearls
set in
pure
Chain,
£2O.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
,V
‘Sy-
: \
tg *c v
-:i‘ -' : S
V
£5
p
o
ps
>
'#>
,Vls£
3>
£
/~
.
A
.. .•■
V'
Iw oA w»><
mm \ v v Wm
A
ntsv.4t*W
1&*
\
Iggil
G 8
■
gf. is
ill
I S ;\ US
mi
\
V \
[s* i'i i *v cv, * sV* AV ’
- V l
K.YCF
*<&&!%
0> ■',:'%
mi
WMM
.-:.j
v ®gt
£ &
ii fa \\
%
I>\
ml®|
\
N
\\
ST’
l|'i§ I
i
a-svH^
»-H'Rk
- •.•
a&*
I3M
mm
fev'l
m
WM
\
Hi
s\
§s•*£« s•*
s««
ill
’'•/
, ASP
mill
m f
Vw'
f? 4
X
issa
BEK?
f if
' vV
a*r?>
\\
Ss
*3B&**^
43^
KBi
A/
‘w'W
WMA
CJJ
m
v*>- 'v/' *^<em
■—’’’w
~
; Jr
m
/f 2
W*
/A
'VPif.
.A /
A*
itr-sli
.,’•'
r l^
. /;
/l. rVS<
J
A,fy
■iwihml
S /
s c '-**~ : "h
" t
/
#<,. ... . r /
’C
k, M
v <;_.^
v
15UZZ
-KiSc
V
€6
Cobra,” 15he. Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Fools Hun airmen
In the blue.
Every wooden
Gun he leaves
These poor simple
Fools deceives.
When a storm of
German shell
Blows these flimsy
Shams up. Well!
“COBRA” soldiers
Have a grin
At old Willie
In Berlin.


a a ;«
P
V.
For Skin and
Complexion
To improve your skin
and complexion, use Icilma
Cream, the famous British
toilet cream. The Icilma
Natural Water which it
contains will stimulate the
skin and regulate the flow
of natural oils. In this
way it prevents early
wrinkles and keeps the
skin in good condition.
Fragrant and non-greasy.
11
Cream
(Guaranteed not to grow Hair).
Price 1/6 per pot.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
I ilma is pronounced Eye-Sihn,i.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Agents
tpj ( Commerce House, Melbourne.
i.C-3-
‘lt is my opinion that
for Big Game the
Ross .280 Rifle is the
best in the world.’
Mr. Miller adds:
** I have hunt-
ed and fished in
various parts of
the world, in-
cluding British
East Africa, but
I have never
seen a gun the
equal of the
Ross .280 for
big game.”
Experts all
over the world
concur in this
opinion.
You in-
crease the
chances of
a success-
ful hunt
by carry-
ing a Ross
.280, and
using the
WOM& '
%.r
B. K. MILLER.
Wild Rose,
Wis.,
U.S.A.
Illustrated
Catalogue
on request.
1315
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper
tube expanding bullet (pat’d).
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
The "Glenbrook”
A Well-Finished Shoe.
A popular Macnaught style, neatly
moulded on English last. Tan
Willow Calf, Oxford lacing, with
perforated Cap and Golosh, medium
welted Soles, wide, medium or
narrow fittings.
257-
Black Box Calf, 19/9.
We Pay Postage.
Write for Catalogue.
1
n
ft
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
wm
.
m
M Mirror Like Polish
on your car adds to the pleasure and prestige of motoring
and increases the market value of your machine. With but
very little effort you, yourself, can keep the finish of your
car like new —use Johnson's Cleaner and Prepared Wax.
Johnson’s Cleaner
really cleans—it entirely removes all stains, discolorations, scum, road-
oil, tar and grease from body, hood and fenders. Even those spots that
are ground in—mud freckles—and surface scratches which you thought
were permanent —will disappear like magic under Johnson's Cleaner.
And it doesn’t injure or scratch the varnish —simply cleans and
prepares it for the wax polish.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
is a boon to the man who takes care of his own car—it makes a “wash”
last twice as long. OLD CAES require both Cleaner and Wax —the
Cleaner two or three times a year —and the Wax every six or eight weeks.
NEW CAES need only the Wax —to protect the varnish. This will keep
your car like new indefinitely.
JOHNSON’S PREPAEED WAX is conveniently put up —always ready
for use —no tools or brushes required —all you need is a muslin or woollen
rag.
Will Not Collect Dust
There are many other uses for Johnson’s Prepared AN ax try it for cleaning and
polishing your
Floors
Linoleum
Woodwork
Piano
Furniture
Leather Goods
Shoes
Golf Clubs
Gunstocks.
etc.
JOHNSON’S PREPARED WAN is the standard polish for motor vehicles. It
gives a thin, protecting coat over the varnish, adding years to its life. It covers
up mars, and scratches, prevents checking, sheds water and imparts a perfectly
hard, dry, glass-like finish that cannot gather dust.
Post the Coupon for General Trial Packages
—sufficient for cleaning and polishing two small cars.
(Whol.) ; G. L. Gee & Go. (Whol.) ; Jas. Sandy & Co.;
td. ; F. Lassetter & Co. Melbourne: Jas. Hardie & Co.
Sydney : Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
H H. Groth & Co.; Mark Foy’s Ltd. ,
(Whol.) ;H. J Corder ; Mutual Stores; Win. & Geo. Dean; John Danks & Son. Adelaide:
King & Co., Weymouth Street. Brisbane: Jas. Sloan & Co.; R. S. Exton & Co. Perth:
Hamer & Co. (Whol); Jas. Eastward Ltd. Launceston: Hart A Sons Co. Hobart: Davis
&Co Auckland: Hill & Plummer Ltd. Wellington (N.Z.): G. L. Geo A Co.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Racine, Wis.
Cable Address: “JOHNSON, RACINE.”
Australasian Office: 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
S. 0. JOHNSON & SON—(Address c/o your nearest distributor).
I enclose 6d. for a trial tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax, sufficient for polishing’
of furniture, a small floor, a square of linoleum or a motor-car. Please also send
1/- Color Book free.
Name
AC
several pieces
me your new
Address
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments; Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
RAZOR TROUBLES ENDED
How many men fret and -fume and
waste time in the morning, because
they’ve never solved the Razor
problem. There’ll be an end to all
vour difficulties if you try
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
Requires but little stropping, and
its all-conquering keen edge enables
you to shave swiftly and easily for
months.
PRICE 10/6 —Post Free.
VA
Single Razor, Vulcanite
Handle 10/6
Pair in Double Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for
our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG •& AITH.EN,
GEORGE STREET> SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS
A HYMN OF THANKFULNESS FOR BOTTLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let wowsers rage, and ramp, and roar,
And tear the world to hits;
To bar-rooms on a singing shore
The mind for revel flits;
Though every pub the wowser throttles
Thank God, the world is full of bottles !
There still are sands, near laughing surf,
Wide spaces ’neath the stars,
With couches made of soft, fresh turf,
And these shall be our bars,
Where never mermaid, interposing,
Will hint that it is time for closing.
The revel still shall live; and when
The wowser wakes at dawn,
And, full of anger, now and then
Finds bottles on his lawn —
As if of his own reckless drinking—
Methinks ’twill set the beggar thinking!
Out* laughter as we play the jest
While cheerfully we roam,
Our joyous songs shall break his rest
Before we wander home;
Anri we shall sing, with well-wet throttles,
A hymn of thankfulness for bottles.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
These military trials remind one somehow
of Ilenry Melville, who was one of the first
lawyers to practise in Tasmania. He
appeared for the prosecution in a case
before Captain Abbott, a military judge, and
quite convinced his Honor, who was about
to enter up judgment accordingly, when he
reflected that he had better, as a matter of
form, hear the other side. There was no
counsel for the defence, so the ambidextrous
Melville asked the permission of the Court
to say what he could for that side as well.
Consent being given, he tore himself and
the arguments for the prosecution to such
shreds that judgment was finally given for
the defendant.
“Incas,” among the dust -
The “Melbourne Commercial Directory” for 1856
consisted of 172 pages, and there are perhaps
172 people alive who were mentioned in it. The
population of Victoria was 303,527. The gold rush
had been going for about four years, and the ads.
chiefly related to coaches, banks and insurance com-
panies. Besides the Australasia, Union, Wales,
Oriental, Victoria . and Colonial there was a
Diggers’ Bank. Alongside well-known insurance cos.
there was an advt. of the Church of England Life
Assurance Institution, with a capital of a million
sterling and five Lord Bishops as patrons, besides a
Board of Directors, with H. C. E. Childers, M.L.C., as
chairman. There were five cricket clubs—the Mel-
bourne, Emerald Ilill, Peep o’ Day, Collingwood and
North Melbourne. The Victorian navy consisted of
the sloop Electra, 16 guns; and the 40th Regiment
represented the British Army. Three partners in the
firm of J. B. Were, Kent & Co. represented Denmark,
Sweden, Norway, Spain, Lubeck, Bremen, Portugal,
Brazil, Hamburg and Chili as consuls, which made
up a full hand. The Supreme Court Judges were
Wm. A’Beckett, Redmond Barry and E. E. AVilliams.
Two subsequent Judges were Stawell, then Attorney-
General, and Robert Molesworth, then Solicitor-
General. Of 62 practising barristers not one is
living to-day. W. H. F. Mitchell, afterwards Pre-
sident of the Leg. Council, was Chief Commissioner
of Police. Of 15 doctors then in practice not one
is left. As showing the mutability of business life,
of 62 retail drapers only two firms retain the same
titles as they had 60 years ago—Buckley and Nunn
and Robertson and Motfatt. But Cramond and Dick-
son, then in Lonsdale-street, have been established
in Warrnambool over 50 years. Three of the
chemists’ firms of those days are still extant. There
were only two breweries, McCracken’s and Murphy’s.
The Argus was owned by Wilson, MacKinnon and
Fairfax, the last-named a nephew of the original
Fairfax of the S. M. Herald. He afterwards owned
the Warrnambool Standard. The V.R.C. did not
exist, and the Church of England called itself the
“Anglo-Catholic Church,” with Dr. Perry as Bishop.
John Thomas Smith was Mayor of Melbourne and
'A in. Kerr was Town Clerk, E. G. Fitzgibbon being
merely Clerk of Committees.
“The Old Soldier”: It’s not the military
person who is unprogressive. It is his
civilian superior, who discourages him. The
three greatest inventions before that of rifled
artillery were those of the bayonet by
Yauban, of the block-trail gun-carriage by
General Dickson, and the shrapnel shell by
Colonel Shrapnel. None of these men were
permitted to benefit by their inventions.
Colonel Boxer, when employed in the labora-
tory at Woolwich Arsenal, invented the
central-fire rifle cartridge, and the War Office
refused to recognise his claim for payment
for the use of his invention, because the
caste there said he had made it in “their”
time. He left the service, which thus lost
a first-rate artillery officer. What it lost
through its wooden obstinacy in sticking to
the Armstrong gun in spite of all the Shoe-
buryness staff could say will never be known.
Britain was the last European Power to
adopt breechloading artillery and the maga-
zine rifle. It was not the soldiers, but the
civil officials, who opposed the improvements,
just as they opposed the percussion musket
and the breechloading rifle, because these
weapons would enable the soldier to fire
faster, and so, as the civil ass said, waste
ammunition!
The High Court has handed down an
important decision on a question of salvage.
Some months ago a message reached Hobart
that there w r as a vessel in distress in the
offing, apparently a barque of 800 or 400
tons. The Government chartered the river
steamer Castela for £25 to go and see about
it, and Pilot Davis took charge. When he
got down he found the vessel was the Inver-
nesshire. a 1700-ton barque, with most of
her masts blown away. Davis agreed with
the captain to tow him in for £5OO. The
Castela did the job—not an easy one, either.
But when the owners of the barque heard
about the £25 charter they repudiated the
agreement made by the captain, alleging that
it had been made in ignorance and under
compulsion. The Tasmanian Supreme Court
upheld this contention, and the owners of
the Castela went to the High Court />out
it. The top Court held that the £25 charter
could not he made to cover the unexpected
conditions, and that as the Castela went
out to remove a-wart, so to speak, and
found that she had to amputate a leg, it
was only fair she should get something extra.
They assessed the job at £175, gave Davis
£2O out of it. the skipper £lO and each mem-
ber of the crew £5.


I
l ‘ /■
&
FOR . . .
FORTY YEARS
Fisher’s
Phospherine
has proved itself successful, in
the treatment of Indigestion,
Backache, Headache, Brain Fag,
Nervousness and Rheumatism.
It is specially beneficial in
restoring the health and vigor
of women who are worried by
ill-health, business troubles and
family cares. The depletion of
the system incurred by nursing-
mothers is quickly counteracted
and restored by a course of
Fisher’s Phospherine
The Great Nerve Tonic
IT MAKES ALL THE
DIFFERENCE.
Sold by all
Chemists and
Stores, 1/- per
bottle; four
times the quan-
tity, 2/6.
Insist upon get-
ting FISHER’S.
F.99.P
FISHER & GO.,
Chemists,
337 George Street,
SYDNEY,
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected Hew
X**
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mpars Far Phono many times as efflcient
meoii Lai mune and powerful ag the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 #O. LTD.,
i 9
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRITISH MADE
from Australasian Wool.
JASON
HOSIERY.
CHRISTIE?
SPECIALISE
Th/O
L/NES
Klltf 5
IF
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/vNO
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 1 " SYDNEY
Zr 3 T NEWCASTLE
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire* and the Best Rn™,«
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon R t
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esa' Kr '•
Samuel Hordern, Esq. ’’ ' ’
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808 000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for Dr'osnp’ptn*
and full information without delay.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
y
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. ' What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
IP
Photo: Wrather & Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this I
. would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night
will be all that you need do.
m..
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of fom' or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why. you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those "who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol. obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Olynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their w r ork.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily,_ and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
Superb!
This beautiful
girl, never on the
stage unknown
to fame —is des-
tined to astonish the world.
Her figure conforms absolutely to the
standard measurements of perfection:
Height, weight, bust, arm, waist, thigh, calf and ankle. ®
has posed for us exclusively, and we offer full-length
exquisite art studies (draped and undraped), s'*e 6 x
inches. We will send one of these matchless art
Five Shillings, all charges prepaid and satisfaction
guaranteed. A fine gift suggestion for a man s den.
you receive one you will want our other exquisite stiu les.
They are not prints, but Real Photographs.
CELEBRITY ART STUDIO,
Suite 12, Montana Flats,
Cremorne Point, Sydney
Dinnefords
Magnesia
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
C.H.S.: The question is not whether
we should have done more if we’d had conscription,
but whether we should have done more had we been
less loosely tied to Britain. The B.’s idea was that
we should probably have done less... .Greek: Son
of Terence Aubrey, knight, formerly Speaker of the
Assembly and President of the Leg. Council. Terence
was born in Limerick.... Brae: Nonsense. Present
writer’s youngster, a mere gunner, has been at Shep-
heard’s again and again with his officer-brother.
Certainly he wouldn’t have been allowed in a10ne....
E.J.M. (W.A.) : All right.. . .Spraggs: Sure he was
a Frenchman? We had him as an Australian, an
Englishman and sundries. .. .M. Kermode (Eng.):
Thanks; good luck to him.... Miss B.: What was it,
anyhow? Might be a good tip for some other enraged
people... .Rooinek: You want Australia to neutralise
the fool vote in the way they did it in Belgium.
But did they?. .. .H.J.: Send stamps if you want it
back.... J.C.: Not up....K.V.: One verse:—
Yes, I’m an exotic, and, by the gods,
It’s little to talk about;
You hear sickening chatter of the rods
Of Fate —Lies !.... Pig’s snout!
... .Rothwell: Thank you. Will use. Always glad to be
told the things we don’t know about people we do
know... .W.N.D.: “Alas to say, there was a but”... .
.1.R.: “Our Cattle Run” is a dismal business....
R.P.: Rather poor, even for a first attempt....
W.E.D.: Among the 5978 alleged poems on Anzac
yours stands 5975th.... Maphsu: Better, but not up.
. ...H.F.: Natural phenomenon worked out in terms
of sex needs better treatment... .M.G.H.: Even
chronic rheumatism can’t excuse things like that....
G.R.H.: Parodies are unpopular in this paper, and
yours is only a middling parody, anyhow.... Mount
Rouse: You certainly take a cheerful view of things:
God help all mothers that ever reared a son,
Little they know the hard ships to come,
In the damp trenches all night to be,
Without quilts or blankets to cover their skin ;
God save our King & country,
God save our boys,
My sons don’t be alarmed
Pray to God night & morn: Your souls they cannot
harm
For we have but once to die.
....11. Mcl.: Verse too rough.... Mokker Broads:
Material for a yarn, but too clumsy... .The Prodigal:
Some hint of humor, but verse very rough....
W.E.C.: Entirely conventional yarn, but well enough
done... .M.M.: Socks verse doesn’t score... .G.T.:
“The Eternal” doesn’t amount to anything... .E.M.:
“To Alcohol” is abject doggerel... .D.P.: A pathetic
trifle if you hadn’t told it in that pity-the-poor-
degraded-person fashion. .. .A.E.8.: That ungainly
and unwieldy metre damns it... .R.H.K.C.: Violent
effort to evolve mirth out of nothing... .Roogades:
Don’t see how you could have made it duller....
A.R.8.: Very p00r... .Wally T.: Don’t see much
hope in it. Try something sincere. And try to
make it mean something... .F.D.: Your cat is a
dreary beast and your slum merely the conventional
article... .Rusticus: You have some verse sense; but
the “Drought” is not nearly up... .M.E.F.: Mean-
ingless tragedy doesn’t work.... V.F.K.: “Alone” is
a thousand miles from success... .M.E.8.: Earth-
quake yarn too thin.... J.J.W.: “Psychological Study”
rambles on without getting a thrill out of all its
material... .E.T.: We accept sweet 17 as its excuse.
....Pince-nez: Fresh and direct —two admirable
qualities... .J.A.: “Night Scene on the Mitchell,” if
you want the whole truth about it, is a piece of dull,
artificial rhyming that can have no interest for man
or beast —particularly beast....A. Jumbuck: Verse
limpy as its theme. What happened to the Japs.,
anyhow?... .J.D.: Well, look at a stanza of it in
print and see what you think of it: —
The betting begins, each eager to win
The pile that’s piled up in the middle of the ring ;
They all speak in turn with a triumphant yearn
Until the last player says I have a flush and I win.
... .C.E.: Not quite... .V.M.: Too rough. .. .F.8.M.:
Good verse, but not suitable. .. .J.H.U.: It do sn’t
move us... . W.Y.E.: Imitation of Gordon doesn't
make good. .. .W.J.: Yarn doesn’t grip hard enough.
....Timothy T.: Have your own way about Prof.
Tucker. The Australian biographer who wrote 5 the
recent par. said he was 49 ; you say he is 57. Lots
of people beside the very learned Tucker have aged
years during the last 12 months.
A yarn from the table: —
A Wages Board is generally about the last place
to go in search of nature study—human nature
excepted—but at a sitting of the Gasmakers’ Board
in Sydney the other day witnesses and members
swapped aboriginalities at a rate that surprised
barrister N. G. McWilliam, the chairman. From
the tedious subject of lamp maintenance, a witness
switched off to the tale of a spook. For weeks the
dwellers in a Sydney suburb had been worried by
the way in which a certain street-lamp was mysteri-
ously turned off every night. Boys, burglars and
Germans were the popular explanations; but though
a vigilance committee was formed, the miscreant
could never be caught. The light would suddenly
be turned out even while the committee’s sentry was
watching it from a neighboring verandah: and when
the sentry sallied forth and pounced on the nearest
kid, or on Benno waiting to meet the bonzer tart,
there were indignant protestations of innocence from
the suspect, not unmixed (in Benno’s case) with
threats of stoush. At last the vigilance committee
picketed the lamp-post; and after they had sat round
it for several weary hours, out went the lamp as
usual. The local John Hop, who was in command
of the picket, climbed the post and struck a light.
Then the mystery Was solved. The lamp was one
of those which could be lighted and extinguished
by pulling a chain. On the ring at the end of the
links was gaily swinging a fine fat green tree frog,
whose weight had pulled down the chain and turned
off the light. Evidently Hyla ccerulea had mistaken
the lamp for a free gymnasium supplied by a
socialistic council, and had made a practice of taking
a little exercise on it every night to keep his weight
down. Then one of the board members went a spot
better. Up at Concord (N.S.W.), where he comes
from, the sole gas-lamp in the park used to go out
in a similar mysterious fashion, to the joy of
couples not anxious to obtrude their harmony on a
callous world. The local wowsers raged, so watch
was set and the lamp-post picketed, as in the other
case, with the result that the party who climbed
the post found this time not one frog, but two,
swinging softly together on the chain a-nd gazing
into each other’s -eyes “like human beings.” Then
the sightless chairman called the Board to order and
got busy again at his pathetic job of regulating the
production of the light which he himself will never
see.


THE INCOMPARABLE LIGHT!
M
MAZDA
tf
MAZDA LAMPS with drawn-wire filaments.
BRITISH MADE THROUGHOUT!
yi"
i ■'
m
*s®
-Al
f
i
I! 1
S:i
gm
if !' :
:
rf
.
9
di
M
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.),, Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
the Onoto needs no filler!
w
X
*
w
r
&
<?-v-
-(0
\
Why didn’t you ask her
to send you an Onoto ?
Onoto
™I Pen
from 12/- each
A filler is bound to get broken
at the Front. The Onoto needs
no filler ; its fills itself from any
supply, and cleans the nib while
filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position.
You send it out to your friend at the
Front full of ink ready for immediate use.
Manufacturers — Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltd.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C. Australasian Managing
Agents—Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
m
Z
z
\vvL
r
V
VISITORS
who would like to hear a good
talking machine whilst they are in
Sydney are earnestly advised to ask
any accredited dealer to play one
of the many models of the
celebrated
>Aa* Te^U
GRAMOPHONE
There is no other instrument anything like it —its purity of tone and
power have never been equalled. Take a “Gramophone” back to
your country home —it will provide splendid entertainment for the
Winter nights.
ACCREDITED DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
“GRAMOPHONE"
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


Kan king, Public Companies, &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1 /-
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3f per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—-no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed-Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney OfTice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne OfTice: 41 Queen Street.
London OfTice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian jjanli of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales A Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £Boo,ooo* 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1898 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tbrollgliout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney* [imited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birc h i n Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |]bui Z ea| nnd.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up . . . . . . 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places. ;
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest. for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial fljutual Qife
ASSURANCE society limited
FOB
Mutual Lift- Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3, 44a, 000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £G,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors i
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping Arc.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
1 rivate Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regukr sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Railways.
Steamers sail from Wellington :
April 27, May 25,
MOANA. * MAITAI.
-Connecting steamer leaves Sydney:—
April 20, May 18.
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
the pearl OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY y
TOWNSVILLE
"CAIRNS
("Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). y
NORTH.
GABO (Cargo only).
Leaves Sydney April 22.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 26.
Leaves Sydney April 29.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 3.
Leaves Sydney May 6.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.and V.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 29.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports,
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C A N A D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
5 A M O A— HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAY 10, MAY 31, JUNE 21, JULY 12.
Apply:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with tl
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PhILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,500.000
£2,600,000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
Robert LioneL Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
'lhe Hon. Edmund W.
The Hon. Reginald J.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Fosbery, (J.M.H
Black, M.L.C.
~ .M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq. ; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.SAV.
T. C. TKOEDSOX, Director.
Commomwaltb
JSank of Hustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for a.II
General Banking* Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at ~ 0 /
per annum <3/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS >N MILLER. Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more’than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
DITCCtOTS,
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
Ihe Company a magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COEF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to Tweed Heads— steamer to Murwillumbah!
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivera
there connecting with one of the Company's UD-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE 11K| ,
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN ami QUEENSLAND PORTS #
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, May 6
and June 3.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
KUPARA, April 22
PARINGA, April 29
MORIALTA, May l -
ALLINGA, May i 3.
t.iST Po« of'can S'oS aftt -
on all services subject to conditio,/ wh/h Paniea
ascertained on application at the Company's' oZ '*
O. h. lllnL & CO., LTD.,
A S ents - 6 BRIDGE street, Sydney
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEWZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIA N-A U STR AL A SIAN R u
LINE. u -
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST E\STFBT
AND BEST- EQUIPPED VESSELS TRAmw
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMErK
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
mvin-Screw. ‘Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
(le luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundn
wireless, etc.
nursery,
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
• or full particulars and pamphlets apply
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., 10).
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “ Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope.
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Dock?.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. ' Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne anil
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
BECAUSE IT IS
pre pa red from
pure natural salt,
by the most mod-
ern methods and
neveronce touched
by hand from start
to finish, doctors
useand recommend
CEREBOS
SALT
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centun
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES w -TpiH
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, bn*
Insist on “Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
"“ write for Book


Weirtirne
Economy
Grt) G 'SKEC.Cu:
m
fes
o
r
&
\
y.
<1
\
Yes! and
Peacetime Economy too,
is obtained by using
I
Michelin Tyres,
The claims for economy were never so insistent as at present \ therefore it
behoves every motorist to see that he is getting the best value possible from the
money he expends on tyres.
In purchasing a Michelin Tyre you obtain an article which is the result of
years of careful study and endless tests,
Michelin Tyres give all-round satisfaction and stand up to their work
better than any other tyres; in a word,
MICHELIN TYRES ARE THE CHEAPEST TYRES PER MILE RUN
and that is the only thing which counts.
If, therefore, you are not a user of Michelin Tyres, try them !
WE DON'T FEAR COMPARISONS t WE SOLICIT THEM,
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Garages.
10 A. 151&
I
OK Mil*
***
M. .7^
M»WW
MADE IN A MOMENT!
Just hot water (not boiling) and you have a delicious, invigorating Food Drink
•—known as the Powdered Energiser. The unique process of manufacture
makes it germ-free. Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., 26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
instantly
PREPARED
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
-
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Hough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
✓
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others : it is the best and
cheapest 1 have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa- •
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6. .
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia. !
ft
i
m
m
HIGH flying, fast-
going game ne-
cessitates a powerful
and ac-
curate
cartridge.
Try the
“ARROW” Brand
Obtainable from, leading dealers every -
( where catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg.. Newt or It Citj
St. Stephens House
Westminster, S.W.
London
Loaded in London
with the popular
English powders
in 8, 10,
12,16, 20,
24 and 28 gauge
10 any illustration appearing in T E
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
S'
L u
(
X
L
%
A Pair of
ABBEY
SHOES
gives the finishing touch to a well-
dressed appearance. They are
correct in style, perfectly finished,
and the very highest grade quality
throughout.
We illustrate a Choice, Patent
Oxford Bal., with Dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 35/-
In Ilighest-grade Tan Willow Calf.
PRICE 32/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
’ Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Bet\> een (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins-
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
llarmles* and In-
stantaneous.
1 33 different shades.
Jf Post pattern of
W hair with order.
/4/10, 7/11,10/9.
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 lilocU Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.


GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
CaiHe Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCPIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts anti Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents s
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Marbles
GAME GETTER GUN
Two Guns In One
Upper Barrel .22
Lower Barrel .44 or .410
Rid of the Rabbit Pest
with the aid of the“ Game
.®! ter - Easily carried about
with you at your work. Folds
compactly and slips into shoul-
der holster—Free with gun.
fe naps open - firm and rigid —in a
Barrels 12-15 of 18 inch
f^ tter ® hot ' Accurate
l }} y l t ste 3 and sighted before
lover of tv, hand9 ’ 4 * un for every
Rrinrre J /f rea t out o’ doors.”
Brings down all small game, even an-
telope truly a "GAME GETTER.”,
Ask Your Dealer
to show you this gun. See it,
swing it to your shoulder that
y° u may know the "feel” of
the biggest little gun on earth.
r I FTTT?n d /?/& ! , r on the "GAME
pUN . or catalogue of
Marble a 60 Sporting Specialities or
both sent postpaid .
Marble Arms & Mfg, Co.
611 Delta Avenue
uladstone, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address "MARBLE” Gladstone
Australian & New Zealand Representatives
HARRY MOtDEN, Box 1349, Sydney
(Its
?i?nt l c v>k -c9
f Jj#uthful appearance
us
press
' AllATs (USA)
tom
STAIN.
fflß
GRE-V
HAIR
If We Remember.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the great silence which we both shall find
O'er 'that vast lake that is forever still,
With no more ebb and no more golden
flow
And no*;more shore for human hearts to
knoHv,
If we remember (as I think we will),
It will not be some hour of conquering love,
The throbbing rapture that we could not
speak,
So loud the heart proclaimed its victory.
While lips that sought for lips deliberately
Shut out the world, with cheek laid close to
cheek;
It will not be the shouting of the crowd,
The laurel crowning, we remember best,
But some sped-Siugh, some little friendly
thing
That, at the time, seemed scarce worth
treasuring—
The kindly linking of a foolish jest.
Within the slumber that the gods at last
Shall lay across all lives that strove and
dared,
If there be one white crest for dear love’s
sake
On the smooth blackness of that shoreless
lake
’Twill be the ghost of some old jest we
shared !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
IN
BANANA LAND
Cooktown, with 1300 inhabitants, still has
15 pubs. Local athletes keep in form by
brisk walking between 15 beers.
“W.G.8.” : The first windmill built in the
State is still standing in Dalby, on the
Downs. It was planted there by Tom
Buckingham over 35 years ago.
There have been many pars in the papers
about the State Butchery (Brisbane) being
so immensely popular that the police have
to be invoked occasionally to keep down
the rush. Now it leaks out that over 3000
tickets for free meat were issued in one
month this year.
Hawkes Bay (M.L.) Education Board
has decreed that the school day in summer
shall begin at 8 a.m. and end at 1 p.m. In
North Queensland schools the temperature
often runs 105° to 110° in the shade, yet
the schools drum away through the hottest
part of the day.
‘‘Banaualand” : At Lansdowne one day in
January, 1914, Kirwin, the overseer, marked
4758 lambs. Also he added age-mark,
while a man put ou the registered station-
mark. The only other help he had were
six catchers and one tar boy. We’re still
arguing whether this is a record.
“Boro-Belle” : Three important lights have
recently been completed on treacherous parts
of the coast near Cooktown. The first is at
Coquette Island, in the Howie Group, 70
miles north of Cooktown; the second at Dhu
Reef, 70 miles further north; the third at
the most easterly point in the Home Island
group, 100 miles south of Thursday Island,
where three reefs are just awash at high
water. These lights are of the nou-attendud
class, the gas supply being sufficient for six
months. They have a habit of extinguishing
themselves by day. and lighting up again at
night, which helps the supply to haug out.
They stand 53 feet above sea-level, and
their advice is made clear some 14 miles away.
As it was the general custom for vessels using
the Torres Straits course to anchor at night,
the provision of these lights means a saving
of at least 18 hours, while the chances of
an abrupt meeting with D. Jones have been
greatly reduced. The foundations for the
Dhu Reef light are solid concrete 20ft. x
20ft., sunk Bft. into the coral, and on top
of them are Bft. pillars of concrete, rein-
forced with iron. The foundations ‘of the
other two lights are Bft. into solid rock. All
of them are built to stand for centuries, bar
accidents. During the present year the
lightship at Claremont, 200 miles north of
Cooktown, and the one at Piper Island, 50
miles further north, will be replaced by sim-
ilar non-attended lights.
"Condamine”: An Australian industry
that has been delayed on account of the
drought starts this week, when the Cactus
Estates Co. gives its potash reduction works
a trial run. At the present price of potash
a success seems easy, and if the local
industry can be continued when the stuff
drops to normal prices it will be the definite
solving of the prickly-pear problem. Pear
ash contains about lo p.c. potash; scrub
timbers about 7 p.c. As about £5 cash and
a week’s labor will construct a small plant,
it is quite possible that each pear-infested
district may shortly turn its curse into a
blessing and a bank-account.
“Ossian”: Thanks to the timber ring,
Banaualand has an up-to-date sawmill in
Fortitude Valley. Treasurer Theodore took
it over as a going concern for £23,000, with
£14,000 added for the stock. The sawmill
is a useful thing about the premises of the
Workers’ Dwellings Board, as applicants for
advances to build homes get a special dis-
count of 5 per cent, on timber obtained from
that source. One result is that the
Timber Merchants’ Association has not been
able to carry out its proposal tq increase
its price by 3s. on each 100 super, feet. The
mill has been working for a few weeks
only, yet its output is 23 per cent, larger
than before its purchase by the State.
“Bill”: Oue more pet theory has had a
hole bored through it. The yarn was that
sheep needed a dry climate and would not
live in coastal districts. W. G. Brown,
the Department of Agriculture’s expert, did
not believe the rumor, and proved to his own
satisfaction that Romney Marsh, Border
Leieesters or any strong mixture of them
could flourish on the coast. lie has an
ambition to link up sheep-raising with dairy-
ing and agriculture, and 30 settlers of Beau-
desert have listened to him and are going to
give sheep as a side-line a chance to help
pay the interest on the mortgage. .
Parson F. A. Fernau, who out in
Charleville hospital the other day, had
crowded a good deal of variety into his 43
years. Born in Belgium, he was trained by
one of the big R.C, teaching Orders, and sent
as a Jesuit novice to Brazil, where he spent
some time. Next, in London, he followed/
the inky way for a while, and, after ’verting
to Anglicanism, drifted to North Queensland,
where Bishop Frodsham ordained him as a
deacon. After a year’s sky-piloting in and
near Townsville, he joined the Anglican mis-
sion in Papua. Feter sent him south to
recuperate, and for some months he earned a
crust as a curate in Launceston (Tas.),
where he was promoted to Anglican priest’s
orders. A spell as chaplain of a leper station
followed; and latterly he had been one of
Archbishop Donaldson’s “hush brothers,” on
a roviug commission between Charleville and
the Sunset. Death was the result of burns
received in a fire at Charleville rectory some
weeks ago.
What weaklings these Bananalanders are !
Boyd Edkins, for instance, who ran a motor
through from Melbourne to Sydney the other
day faster than the express train, is a Cen-
tral Bananalander and can scarcely tip the
beam up to list. 21b. unless lie lias his boots
on. Edkins was born on Mount Cornish
Station, Landsborough River.
Passed out at Townsville hospital recently,
R. Rolger, aged 92 or thereabouts. Bolger
claimed to have taken a hand iu the Eureka
business, and was a man of many parts, with
a stock of hair-raising tales of the early
days. One tale the old chap told against
himself was of paying for some tobacco lie
was getting from a Jap. with two drapers’
advertisements that resembled £1 notes. The
next time lie was doing business he tried the
same dodge, but the brown man had been
warned by the last victim, and insisted on
getting two good notes. When Bolger got
the caddy home he found he had paid good
money for a box of stones. For the past 12
years or so the old chap lived entirely alone
on Magnetic Island.
THE FOOT THAT HOCKS THE CRADLE.
(A sketch in the Cow Country.)
Little Dalby has had six serious fires
during the past year, and in three of them
half the town was wiped out. One row of
shops was burnt out, re-built and burnt out
again within six mouths. Yell “Dalby” in
at the door of an insurance co., and every-
body will fall dead simultaneously.
Excellency Goold-Adams has been showing
a vast interest in Queensland manufactures
and has visited no fewer •than 40 factories.
'Phe other day the Brisbane Chamber of
Manufactures presented him, in recognition
of his interest, with a baby’s chair for the
use of the recently-arrived Richard John
Moreton Goold-Adams..
“Itan” : The white cockatoo is still, in
many maize-growing districts, the farmer’s
worst enemy. Especially is this the case
on the Atherton tableland, where maize is
the staple. A movement is afoot to ask
the Government to subsidise a fighting fund,
and the claim is as sound as in the case of
the flying-fox, whose scalp is State-tolled.
Couldn’t cocky be commercialised? He is
fleshy and eats well, and in these times of
meat: scarcity the scheme ought to be prac-
ticable. In most of these farming centres
there are refrigerating chambers at the but-
ter factories, with rail to the deep-sea ports.
Then there are the feathers. The snowy fluff
ought to find markets if exploited.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 15, ]r>j , ;
My Dear Tiiakgomindah,
'This week is chiefly remarkable f„, H
number of unexpected engagements x\
Imrrid kind that the war n!w““ foil
the joyous kind that has for its l”L b,lt
ammunition cake encased in plaster of
One is a matter between Gladys Pi!’?'*'
daughter of the late E. N. Blacket nf S 1
«•»' UaroU Parr, of Bri»b S AMhl K
between I ercy Campbell, of Man-hm. 61 ?
now in khaki, and Gladys Grecnhnf a
Brisbane girl. Then there’s Nurse Rav a?'
ling, of the Coast Hospital, Sydney wh i
accepted the usual diamond token ‘fiy.mv
ma,. 1,.a110y, of Childers. The 1,3“
also live up Childers'way. Finally iff*
Mitchell, a pretty Warwick girl, and JaS
Macrossap. son ot the late J. M Maer.>«
one-time Minister for .Mines, intend to
housekeeping at an early date.
•T. 11. Campbell, of Jacondol and Lie],,,, , ,
Hill (C.Q.I. h»d a wedding the ST
and asked Margaret Grant to share it with
him. She said yes. though she had to lea!
off being matron of Victoria Hospital Bar
caldine to oblige the man. The ’moon ’
glittering in Sydney.
Leila Feez, the pretty daughter of the
Adolph Feezes, was gold-buckled on Wednes
day to young Thallon, son of the late Com-
missioner for Railways.
Now a line or two about a Governor and
other sundries. His Ex. is a side-line at a
big concert in the Centennial Hall to-nMit
The entertainment was worked up by the
Girls’ Club, and the profits will be joyously
spent on Easter cheer for the men in tin*
camps. Friday was ‘‘Book Day,” for which
the same club exerted itself mightily for ik e
same deserving objects.
At to-night’s show the Governor was given
a rattle, a mug, and a hairbrush. The com-
mittee wasn’t sure whether he could afford to
buy them for baby Goold-Adams out of his
cight-and-six a day, or whatever his wages
are.
This afternoon tlie Ambulance Sports
drew some hundreds of onlookers to tin*
Cricket Ground. The Governor— but there
there; let’s get on.
F. .T. Corbett is motoring a party of
friends South with the purpose of striking
Sydney at Show-time. The car is to be
trucked from here to the Tweed, thence the
intrepid navigator will battle with the roads.
Sophie Cameron, of Toowoomba, left for
Sydney this week, after being plunged in
a reservoir of farewell teas. From Sydn y
she sails for Maoriland. where her marriage
with a member of the squatting Greenwood
family will momentarily brighten the gloom
of war.
William Henry Beauchamp Persse, a well-
known pastoralist, and nephew of de Burgh
Persse, of Tabragalba, died in a private hos-
pital in Toowoomba on Friday. Mrs. Persse
is a daughter of the late Colonel McDonald,
who was Lmder-Sec. to the State Post-
master. ‘’Bill” Persse was a Galway man.
who came to Queensland in IS7T. to earn
amongst other things the reputation of being
one of the best and straightest sports in
Banaualand.
“Jimmy” Atkinson, son of the architect,
has been granted a commission. As Ser-
geant Atkinson the young officer took part
iu the history-making at Gallipoli.
W. It. Wilkie read a paper on one William
Shakspeare to the Brisbane Women’s Club
on Thursday. The audience listened with
one ear and knitted with the other, and a
delighted chorus of “I’ve finished the toe'
arose when the lecturer swallowed his final
mouthful of water. It was an appropriate
manner of applauding the subject.
Chaplain Merrington, who has not long
been back from the trenches, delivered a
more interesting address to the National
Council of Women. He talked at first-hand
of our Billiam —Shakebayonet by name—
and the best way of helping and cheering
him.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The newest infant in Banaualand calls
itself the National Political Party. It will
cover beneath its swaddling clothes Liberals
Farmers .and Disgruntled Sundries—all.. i"
fact, who can conscientiously exclaim: 1°
with the Labor Party I” The CotRH |!
stands god-mother.


%
m
\
WM
fll
u
. \
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
rHE above reproduced portrait drawing of Admiral Jellicoe, Commanding North Sea Fleet, is
one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for os by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
md retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely free
rom advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
o any address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt of 6d. in postage stamps to cover
:o S t of mailing, et:. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & GO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IP
K.Y
S
WH
I


Little Friends
of the Liver
They're little hut they’re good: they’re gentle
and they're kind : they’re full of Health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
Carters,
'ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
L
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dose.
Small Price.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—-
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 37-
albert & CO., Albert House, Farringrdon St.,
Agents —- LONDON, Eng 1 .
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
When Buying
Serge
ft. l"
fox
Look for These Brands
Both the Animal and the
word Fox are clearly stamped
on every yard of the
Genuine FOX
Blue and Black
SERGES
Coatings and
Dress Goods
Guaranteed Pure Wool, Fast Dye,
Thoroughly Shrunk
BY
FOX BROTHERS & CO. Limited
Wellington, Somerset, England
the only manufacturers of the genuine Fox
Serges and the originators of the now famous
Khaki Serge and F.I.P. Puttee.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining
genuine Fox Serges locally, write direct to
the agents, Messrs. Stogdale & Sons F’ty.
Ltd., Box 1802, G.P.0., Sydney, who will
supply the address of the nearest Store-
keeper stocking it.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pefper&Co., Ltd.,BerifordLaboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
Latest Novelty for a Present
The Steel Lined
Pocket Book with
Two Pockets for Papers
Strongly made. Tan Leathet
Covers, Steel Plate in each wi.l
stop a bullet. Preserves docu-
ments. Ideal gift for soldiers
12/6
Post?ge
6d.
Extra
Send for latest List of Gifts to select from.
ROTH WELL’S LTD.
EDWARD STREET
BRISBANE
T T
A £l4 Machine
w >th 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 Y PITAD* WRIT TEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine rn
25 QUEEN VICTORIA /W ARRETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne’ 7
Adelaic'e; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 V***'
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street Hobart" 66 *’
s*
1
mmm
mm!
Ye canna do better Sandy McFay,
Than to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ number 2A.
When you’re feeling run-down
just a wee bit,
and “ bonnie ” and fit.
For a cheap way of making ye feel quite
content.
Ma conscience l the siller is very well
spent.
After taking IRON ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Mr. J. Handford, Northwich, writes : —“ Iron ‘Jelloids’ have done me
“ more good than anything I have taken ; they have put new life into me.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at l/l£ and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
'HA
, NCUBATD r
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 13-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTOX & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
muAkwisw\Hi
METAL POLISH
Cleans more brass signs, zinc signs,
brass railings, door knobs and door
plates than all. other polishes com-
bined, because it is the quickest and
safest to use. Sold by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo on Can (
The JAEGER name ATTRACTS
because it represents the reputation
of a 33 years’ standard of excellence
in the BRITISH Empire.
LRW
The charm of
JAEGER
Pure Wool Underwear lies not
only in its Health-giving quali-
ties. but in the perfect fit, perfect
finish and silken softness of
■ every garment.
Its Health value is universally
known, but we also want buyers
to realise its economy. Actual
wear proves that the difference
in cost is far outweighed by the
superior durability and comfort
of “JAEGER” Garments.
Reading D R A 1* E R 8 a n d
MERCERS always carry a good
range of “JAEGER”
SPECIALTIES.
5*
V
8860
Complete JAEGER Catalogue
020 Edition contains the interesting and romantic history
of the JAEGER CO. A copy will be forwarded post free
on application to
Dr. JAEGER’S Sanitary Woollen System Co.
Australian Branches (Wholesale only): 38-44 York Street,
SYDNEY’; 321 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
“lisJ £1 EGER^
Police court evidence at Warrnambool
(Vic.) : ‘‘Then accused struck you with the
pick?” “Yes, your worship.” “Have you
no idea why lie hit you with the pick?”
"Well, your worship, he is a very sarcastic
man.”
A lady, up at the S. Melbourne Police
Court for about the 70th time on account of
her devotion to Highland whisky, has been
christened Mary Queen of Scotch, so the
local force told the bench the other day.
A Maoriland youngster steered into some
rotten luck the other day. To pass the
medical test he had to undergo an operation,
and as a result lost a leg. As the ampu-
tated limb didn't happen to be on active
service, he cannot claim a military pension ;
but the Carterton residents sent him along
£3OO to go on with.
Settlers in Victorian irrigation areas who
have decided to get rich by growing fruit
will find themselves battering at the door of
the insolvency court if the Government does
not help them to kill a few middlemen and
hurry on canning and pulping facilities by
next season, when the orchards served by the
Waranga Basin Channels come into full
bearing. At present splendid samples of
canning peaches are being grown—the first
crop after a wait of three or four years. But
the growers cannot dispose of their delectable
harvest. A Bamawn settler who has planted
thousands of trees of canning fruit varieties
sent 19 cases of prime stuff to Melbourne as
a feeler. He got a return from the commis-
sion agents of 275. for the lot! But as he
had paid the freight and the crates cost him
19s. he netted just about nothing for his
enterprise.
More of the tiger, this time loosened by
the Anti-Sosh Government of Victoria. The
idea is to sell seasoned timber from the
Newport kilns. Forests-Minister Livingston
is carrying out certain inexpensive improve-
ments at the works, and when they are com-
pleted the concern will turn out 3000 super,
feet of seasoned hardwood daily. The Public
Works Department is to have what it needs;
the balance is to be available for the public
at current rates. Victoria also sells eggs
and poultry from the State farm at Wyuna,
and sugar from the State mills at Maffra,
and generally, for a country which has never
known what it is to have a Labor Govern-
ment, is doing pretty well. But what the
citizen who observes these things can't
understand is why it isn't also possible to
buy a ton of coal from the State mine at
Wonthaggi. At least, those who don’t know
what the House of Fat is for can’t under-
stand it.
"Pick” : Some of the holders of land within
the Shamberra Federal area have cause for
complaint. They had to evacuate their
homesteads at a valuation, but in several
instances the territorial boundaries sliced
corners and strips off the holdings, and as
to these outside portions the owners either
had to find buyers elsewhere or pass them
over, gratis, for the good of the cause.
Where the lopped acreage is too small for a
living area this wasn’t a square deal. Now
the holdings within the territory are being
leased, generally by men with enough and to
spare elsewhere, whilst the evicted owners
are hunting up new domiciles and breathing
hard as they go.
Ilodder and Stoughton have accepted the
MS. of a novel by John Cooper, the amiable,
precise citizen who earns his daily crust by
shepherding the contents of the Athenaeum
library, where the subscriber of to day is
largely the subscriber of a quarter-century
ago. Cooper’s work is alleged to be “an
attempt to reflect the new national spirit of
Australia,” and it is called “Coo-ee: A Tale
of Bushmen from Australia to Anzae.” The
title gives off the early-Victorian literary
exhalation of the Athenaeum itself, and it is
hard to reconcile that with the “new
national spirit.” But the author means well.
His two sons are soldiers in the A.1.F.. and
that should help anybody in his struggles to
pin the Australian spirit down on paper.
Captain de Witt Henty, who joined the
A.A.M.C. in the early days of the war, and
gregorised his first soldier-patient at the
long-departed Divisional Ammunition Park
in the Domain, has had a variegated time
since then. When Colonel Tunbridge took
the Park to England. Henty was sent to
Langwarrin and remained there until offered
a biscuit with the 3rd A.G.H. in Egypt.
Thence he was shortly sent on active service
with a bunch of British doctors, allegedly
bound for the firing-line. On the way the
expedition was commandeered and sent to
England with a hospital ship. After an
hour or two in London Henty started off
again and landed at Anzac, where he
remained until the evacuation. Then back
to Egypt, this time as a patient at Ilelouan.
Now he is in Melbourne on short leave.
The shambling march of events in a Svdnev
suburb: —
(1) Somebody threatened a tramline from some-
where to somewhere else and back again.
(2) Gangs of men descended on a decent road and
tore it up.
(3) The debris was heaped and made two ramparts
of dust or mud with a ditch between.
(4) Men came and hung lights on the uncharted
obstacles so that suburbanites wouldn’t break their
necks more often than necessary.
(o) Many loads of material for the new line were
dumped at intervals along the field fortifications.
(6) More lanterns were hung bv night, so that the
district began to look like a far-flung Red Cross fete.
(“) Scores of the tillage Blacksmith's blood-bro-
thers arrived and worked by day making the puzzle
into a tramline.
(5) When all the material was nieelv spread out
somebody apparently discovered that the imported
welding powder or syrup had run out. \ 0 Aus-
tralian-made substitute being available, all work had
to cease.
(9) E\erything is rusting in the rain and a drip-
ping night-w'atehman lights and hangs out the (pro-
bably imported) lanterns in order that residents may
not break their Australian-grown necks over the
mess, and it has been like that for two months past.
(10) The numerous blood-brothers of the Village
Blacksmith have disappeared, but are probablv en-
gaged somewhere else fitting together imported
material that has been bought with borrowed money.
(11) One of the high priests of Labor is heard
afar off proclaiming that industry is languishing f or
lack of more Government control.


t V
£
0
\f
' /
»
k . ■:&
yiili
mm
i
\
ill
V
<8
%
&
£2
<3
iL-X)
c*
o
vL/m
*<fe
■'*-
c/?
7
1^?
C/SNT
One of the worst results of dyspepsia and stomach troubles is
loss of appetite. You must eat to live, and if you begin to feel you
can't eat, bad times are coming unless you begin quickly to take
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver —they restore
appetite and relieve stomach troubles.
It is of the most vital importance to you that you do not allow
dyspepsia, stomach or liver troubles to get a firm hold on you, for
they will surely shorten your life.
The one remedy which is guaranteed to increase the flow of
bile, purify the blood, strengthen the stomach, tone up the whole
digestive apparatus and give you a relish for your meals is
01AMBEPLAIN5TABLET5
Jor The Stomach o Liver.
1
<? :: •
ft
&
* c
iii
!
WHY NOT GET RID AND STAY RID
FOR. ALL TIME OF YOUR TIRING,
DEBILITATING AND NOT BEAUTIFUL
EXCESS FAT?
EXCESS fat injures your health, impedes
your movements, and makes you the
butt of your unfeeling normal-weight
friends. People who are excessively
fat never feel well and vigorous like nor-
mal folk. People who have been fat and
are now reduced to normal think other fat
people ridiculous. Excess fat also impedes
the heart action, rendering its functions
difficult, and interferes with the breathing.
Not alone does excess fat injure your
health and endanger your existence; it
absolutely destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do you stay
fat?
“TI-SARKIN”
positively removes excess fat and will restore your spoiled figure to
decent and pleasing proportions; it is always a su . l ®
cure for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your
breathing wonderfully, and the course of treatment wii
It is the only successful and, at the same time, harmless fat-
that has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has den T l f b
demonstrated in thousands of successfully-treated cases,
totally and absolutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work any
injury to the general health, even though it often
of weight by as much as a pound a day. ° n + .
improved conditions in the general health become noticeable in less
than a week after its use is begun.
LET US PROVE ITS KM I< AC V TO VOl
Watworth Co. Glrilambone, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—l am quite satisfied with your wonderful treatment. It has
made a new woman of me. I have lost weight wonderfully, and my breathing
is ail right now. Since taking the Ti-Sarkin I can do my work without a
hit of trouble. I will never lose an opportunity to praise and tell everybody
that needs Xi-Sarkin about your marvellous treatment. —Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) Mrs. JOHNSON.
“TI-SARKIN”
DOES NOT FAIL!
LET US PROVE IT.
Manager Watworth Co. Cuprona, Tas.
Dear Sir, —In replying to your kind inquiry
as to the permanency .of my reduction from
the use of “Ti-Sarkin,” I am pleased to tell you
that the results are more satisfactory than I
ever anticipated they could possibly be. “Ti-
Sarkin” has produced a wonderful improve-
ment in my health and condition. When I
began its use I weighed 13 stone 31b., and I
began to lose weight after the first few doses,
and continued rapidly until I was quite satis-
fied that I was thin enough, having lost a
stone a month. Before taking “Ti-Sarkin” my
work was always a burden, but since my re-
duction it is just tlie reverse, and now I am
able to take great pleasure and interest in all
about me. My friends all marvel at my rapid
loss of weight and vast improvement in my
general health. They say they can scarcely
believe their eyes, and they as well as myself
feel very well pleased, and your methods
gained many warm advocates from the success
in my case.
I hope that many faltering women whose
excess weight is a burden to them will he
convinced by my experience, and my earnest
advice to all my fat friends is to have a course
of “Ti-Sarkin.” Now I eat heartily and enjoy
my food, and find no cause whatever for com-
plaint.
You are at liberty to make whatever use you
may choose of this letter. —Yours sincerely,
(5803) (Signed) Mrs. A. CARR.
READ THIS LETTER.
Manager Watworth Co. Sand gate, Q’ld.
Dear Sir, —When I wrote you in July last
my niece was rapidly improving under your
treatment. She was then over 15 stone in
weight, but has since been reduced to truly
genteel proportions, and is now a very pleas-
ing figure. She continued her usual diet while
under treatment, and was in no way incon-
venienced, and I am truly grateful to you for
the result, for, before the treatment, she was
absolutely devoid of any semblance of a figure,
a burden to herself and friends, and unhappy
generally. She has reduced considerably over
three stone, and her health has improved to a
splendid extent. —Yours respectfully,
M. CRAMB.
FREE SAMPLE
It does not matter how far away you live,
we can treat you and reduce you mccessfully
by post. We want you to see what hundreds
say of “Ti-Sarkin” after using it. We want
you to know all about it.
Send 2d. Stamp for Free Trial. If you
cannot call, send a 2d. stamp and let us send
you a free simple and a very interesting
booklet on the subject of obesity. We will
post same to you in plain package, and free
from observation. IF YOU CAN CALL, we
will weigh you privately and supply all par-
ticulars. LADY ATTENDANT and private
rooms for interviews. Write or call to-day.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily. Saturdays till 12.
WATWORTH CO.,
1903 Ash Street, SYDNEY.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Business Announcements.
DAIMLER
sotor Carriages
Vehicles ~
Agricultural Tractors
t»c DAIMLER COMPANY
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
w
BEST - ALWAYS.
a
fill /Cf
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-I-S.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlieatres Ltd.
Governing: Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIV O L I THE A THE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"|"IYOLI THEATRE” MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
A BIG BOOM!
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan at Glen's.
THE BIG SHOW.
THE BIG SHOW.
AIOHS 018 3HX
AVOHS 018 3HX
\A/ IRTH BROS.. LTD., GREATEST SHOW
TW OX EARTH.
WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME,
HAY-MARKET.
NIGHTLY AT 8. NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AND
HOLIDAYS.
Prices: Dress Circle, o'-.; Arena Stalls, 5
Stalls, 4 Back Stalls, 3 - : and Family Circle, 2 -.
Plan at Nicholson's and Hotel Australia.
Amusements.
MAJESTY’ S,
H EK
SYDSE Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime Extravaganza,
MOTH Kit GOOSE.
A HOST OF NEW ARTISTS. A- .RIOT OF FUN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT S.lO.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Dramatic Attraction for
1910. introducing
The Brilliant London Emotional Star Actress,
MADGE FABIAN
in
ON TRIAL.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales M liita Ro?e.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
JttN.TAITS NEW ENCLISH C»
PEC.
OM Y
ACOMEDY OF YOUTH
by *J HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OFSUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
I
H E
T
WHITE CITY
Ruslieutter's Bay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICK, General Manager.
muxrxww*
W. BARRINGTON* MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
Triangle plays at
THE LYCEUM.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m..
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
6d. to 26. Bos Plan at Paling's.
The garden theatre,
BAYSWATKR ROAD, DARLINGHURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBES
DANDIES COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2 6 (Reserved). 2 - and 1/-.
Theatre ’Phone: William Street 512.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
Do you know
of the superior features of the
MAX AMS complete line of Can-
making Machinery, from the Power
Press or Gang Slitter to the
Double Seamer and Tester?
Have you considered
the value of the AMS features,
and how they would affect your
production figures, convenience of
operating, cost of upkeep, time
in changing from one can diameter
to another, floor space and many
other items too numerous to list
here.
It will cost you nothing
to get these facts, and it may
result in a big saving to you.
<c s?
ca
WE INVITE CORRESPONDENCE on this subject and
would be particularly interested in showing you how the
MAX AMS System will give you greater efficiency and
a greater output per dollar invested.
ASK FOR “BOOKLET W.” NO OBLIGATIONS.
MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U.S.A.
Agents *
BERGER CARTER CO., San Francisco, Cal.
W. E. HUGHES <a CO., London, E.C., England.
Amusements.
Veil haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best huns.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 P-m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
H
ER MAJESTY’S
Direction J.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 22.
.T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LON G, LEJTY.
A WHIRLWIND OF GAIETY”.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2 - and 1 -■
Theatre
Direction J
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. APRIL 22.
HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TAXNEHILL
in
The Famous American Comedy Success,
THE BOOMERANG.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EYERY’ EVENING AT 7.45.
GEORGE MARLOW presents the Brilliant
Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON
AND HIS CAT.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees BERT BAILEY k JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 22.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
TIIE SQUAW MAN.
(By arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.)
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan's.
Amusements.
T
H E
A
IDI T O
MELBOURNE.
K I U >|,
EVERY EVENING.
•J. k N. TAIT. present.
Bv arrangement with Jack Waller
THE IDEALS OF 191«.
Direct from Principal Theatres London.
Prices: 3/-, 2/r and 1/-. Box Plan at Allan's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
FULLER’S THEATRES k VAUDEVILLE l;m
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
CLARK AND WALLACE, MONAHAN \\n
SHEEHAN, MADGE MAITLAND, MARI! \vn
EVANS, GIGK WATSON, ELLA AIRLIE, THREE
SAXONS, BOLLINGER AND REYNOLDS.
Prices: 3/-, 2/* and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
G
LAC I A RIU M. MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE SKATING.
SEASON OPENS
EASTER SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
22nd APRIL.
O Y T’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT'S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we* have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
c
m
4
c
iHfjs s
Made in Australia
for Australians
by Australians.
Everybody Sings
its Praises———
Soldiers in Europe and people at home.
This famous chewing sweet is the largest selling confection
of its kind in the world.
Helps teeth, breath, appetite and digestion.
Small in cost —big in benefit and long-lasting enjoyment.
3d. per packet of five big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and Stores, or address
J. C Gambles & Co.,
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
*<•
S 3
''OK
9C
-V
Ask for
free book, in colors:
“WRIGLEY'S MOTHER GOOSE.
Be Sure its Wrigley’s.
(1


THICK LOVELY HAIR
Because Free from Dandruff,
Itching and Irritation
May be brought about by shampoos
tfith Cuticura Soap preceded by touches
of Cuticura Ointment to spots of dan-
druff, itching and irritation. A clean,
healthy scalp means good hair. Try them.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Solid Tyres That
Jive Solid Service
A
heavy load over
rough byways
only emphasises
the sterling merits of
BARNET
GLASS
TRUCK
TYRES
They are built to give solid
service and to maintain the
"quality reputation" of the
makers.
They succeed in both !
Miles Cheaper and
Australian
Gee
mm ULfIH RUBBER CH' 1
fllL SWTES & /SEV/ZEALAND _
W» >4
: lOucMl
Before a Spin—
Oil your cycle
with . .
3-in-0ne
Lubricates perfectly Bearings,
Chains and all contacts. Good for
magnetos—never gums, overheats,
gathers dust or dries. Preserves
leather seat. Prevents rust in any
weather I
No other Oil can equal
THREE-IN-ONE"!
Refuse substitutes.
Write for fREE Sample Bottle.
REID AND REID,
Australasian Agents,
HARRIS STREET,
Wellington, N.Z.
r>
'HAINES-9
CURLY HAIR.
\r^™ CURL ” imparts Beautiful PER-
CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
h ■], nstiess your hair. One testimonial says: “My
t s °on became a mass of wavy curls.” Result cer-
o * ri « e Special reduction for few weeks.
vr„ a l/p on ly for large-size 2/9 packet. The
-New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
VV«
x%\\\
St
m i
o
2
9
8
BIC
BEN
Uk
-ss
A Punctual Alarm
A trim, clean-cut
alarm that’s full of
vim, that’s just as
business-like as he
looks.
Ticks off each min-
ute right to the dot
day and night.
His cheerful - toned
aParm will ring you up
promptly at whatever
hour you wish. His live-
ly note will reach your
ear no matter how sound-
ly you sleep.
Get a Big Ben in your
room tonight, and get up
right in the morning.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial—
a cheerful, deep toned voice—
large, comfortable winding keys
a light running movement
with watch-like escapement—an
alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for
ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred
inspections in the making and
six rigid timing tests before
leaving the factory of the Western
Clock Co., LaSalle, 111., U.S.A.,
Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; post-
age 1/- extra.
Bos/ocJL
HIGH day and holiday shoes, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special gown, ought, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It is this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here illustrated, for ex-
ample. One has only to glance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ingly, beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or more charming. And with all its
daintiness and piquancy, it is the most comfortable
and well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,
giving that ease, lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostock No.
P 64 I 4
Si's-.
<s>s<as
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Bostock shoes are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leading stores.
827
m.
!!li
.HU
mVb:
m
mi
i?l
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
The Inky Way.
Frank Fox, formerly of Sydney, has had
close on 35 months in the trenches. Writ-
ing from the North of France to his old
colleagues on The Bulletin, he says that,
after first seeing things as a war corres-
pondent, he got back to London and into
khaki at the first opportunity. Having
had some experience in Sydney under Colonel
Lenehan, lie was given a commission in the
Field Artillery. “It’s a bore, this siege
warfare,” he says. “My battery has been
in action in the same spot for just six
months. It’s a nice muddy spot, and I
think we find the mud more of a nuisance
than the Hun. But this mud has had a
great moral influence on the British soldier.
He has practically abandoned his old wicked
expletive, and now contents himself with
saying fervently ‘lt’s fair muddy.’ ” Fox
talks of coming south when it’s all over.
“This country will be too much like a ceme-
tery for a generation,” he says.
*** ' *
Major Spencer, who looks after the petty
cash for the Hobart Mercury, got a hurry
Call over the telephone the other day and
was asked if he would take on the command
of the 3rd Divisional Ammunition Column,
with the rank of lieut.-colonel. He asked
how long he could have to make up his mind,
and was told to decide there and then. So
he said “YesP and within about a week he
started on the warpath. At least, he started
on what he thinks is the warpath. But you
never know. The first D.A.C., which left
ages back, was still kicking about Egypt in
February, and hadn’t got into the collar;
and the second D.A.C., which left six months
ago, has done less. But it was shifted about
from one camp to another so often that one
night it had a christening ceremony and
solemnly baptised itself the Darktown Ama-
teur Circus. However, Spencer may have
better luck. He smelt the S. African unplea-
santness, but only from afar —he arrived
just too late to have a cut himself.
* * » *
“Copy Boy”: Journalist D. M. McGill,
who died the other day at Parramatta, was
once ordered off the floor of the Vic. Leg.
Ass. Francis Conway Mason was Speaker
at the time, and McGill was well known
both to him and to members as rep. of the
Vic. country press. When Hansard was
short of a man E. B. Loughran, chief
reporter, appointed McGill temporarily to
fill the breach. Mason promptly noticed the
presence of a “stranger” and ordered him
from the sacred precincts. Of course he
knew why McGill was present, but, not
having been “officially” informed, he deter-
mined to assert his dignity. It made
journalists very mad, but as there was no
A.J.A. in those days their indignation didn’t
amount to much.
* * * *
L. E. Hubbard, of the Hobart Daily
Post, has got through at last. He had been
barred hitherto because he has only one eye.
But as he has brilliantly represented Aus-
tralia at Bisley, his one eye must be a good
deal better than most fellows’ two when it
comes to shooting. Besides, he knows
French and German and a little Russian,
and ought to be a useful man in any army.
*.* * *
Canon Walter Wragge, of Adelaide,
returns this month to England after a
dozen years in South Aus., where he has
been head of an Anglican training college.
He has been sufficiently “broad” to be popu-
lar outside his own sect in mainly-Methody
South Aus., where every third man is either
a local preacher or a circuit steward. Till
recently Wragge humped a genteel swag
along the inky way as editor of Adelaide
Church Guardian.
CREEPING THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
II e regret that in a leading article in The Argus
yesterday an error crept into the figures regarding
enlistments.— The Argus
Even as a stealthy-stockinged spouse
When the small hours begin
Enters his still, right-thinking house,
The error ereepeth in!
Revolving in its shiekered mind
The penalties of scoots,
The staircase it contrives to find
And takes off both its boots.
Its hiccups under stern command
For fear it should be caught,
It grasps with its erratic hand
The banisters of thought;
Then step by step it sneaks aloft, «
With whisperings uncouth
Of caution to the boots it doffed
Lest they betray the truth.
It gains thef door of truth, and slips
’Twixt line and line complete,
E’en as a raffish husband nips
’Twixt sheet and blameless sheet.
The morn arrives: the writer wakes
To see the readers stare
At something which his oath he takes
He never knew was there.
Correction’s absolution comes,
But still he fails to win
Peace from the sound—-like rolling drums—
Of errors “creeping” in.
To him the phrase appears to be
Remarkably inept,
But ever since the Press was free,
Errors have always “crept.”
They never burst or jump or spring
Or whirl or thunder in ;
And yet their echo is a thing
Of transcendental din ;
Compared with their approach unknown, .
Their entrance wholly mute,
It most recalls a woman’s tone
M ho finds her husband’s boot.
Wherefore this litany is writ
For every pressman’s eye,
Alike for him who is not bit,
Or, bit, is doubly shy—
From libels, and the risk that clings
Unto the written word,
But most of all from creeping things,
Deliver us, good Lord !
VICTORIA,
CIMEX LECTULARIUS.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
afruißiiureai
B 32 —REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, Model 12, 22-calibre, solid
breech, side ejector, straight grip, 24in. round barrel, handles 15
short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges ; adjustable rear and open
front sights ; weight 411 b. Delivered, 52/6.
We Repair
All Kinds
of Q U N S
and
RIFLES.
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/7/6
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2/6
Postage on oho Silencer —N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-State, 1/2,
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-( al. barrel. . 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/6 extra
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifl es,
Ammunition and
an Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
£3
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
B49—MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; i 0
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards 1
Delivered £6/1 ft/'.
BI9—“THE SAVAGE” REPEATING
HAMMERLESS RIFLE, 1914
MODEL, 22-cal. rim fire, 24in.
octagon barrel, slide action, dis-
mountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or long rifle
cartridges; magazine holds 20. short, 17 long or 15 long rifle
cartridges; length over all 40in., taken apart 274 in.; weight,
about 551 b. Delivered £3/12/0
B 29 —REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight 3ilb 17/6
B3o —With ladder rear sights 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. •
2/8 Inter-State.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE, British made. Sample Box of 5—2/6 (post
B2 —STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel, 20in. chambered for Ion,?
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight 41b., 17/6
Postage— N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
awn
rr
This Non-Skid Tread
is built up high in the
center where the wear
comes. Therefore
you get all your money
out in actual service.
Right-angled against
skid in any direction, this
massive good measure tread
affords maximum safety as
well as multiplied mileage.
And it takes the powerful
Firestone body to sustain
the bulk and strain of the
Firestone Non-Skid Tread.
All this good measure building
ispart of the Universal Firestone
Service for any demand.
Firestone Tubes and Acces-
sories also on hand.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wale* West Australia
Grimley, Ltd. Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Sydney Perth
South Australia Victoria
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd. Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide Melbourne
FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO.
“ America’s Largest Exclusive Tyre and Rim Makers ”
Akron, Ohio. U. S. A.—Branches and Dealers Everywhere
Factory Representative:
W. E. Ludlow, care of American Consul, Sydney
£
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
ample security and efficient management assured.
Write lor Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. Perceval Bedford, Manager.
[4
Is Your
Baby
Delicate?
Fed from Inrlh on the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
Mother and Child.
Baby b l / 2 months.
WHAT a marked difference there is
between the fretful, puny, ailing infant,
and the child whose face always bears
the smile and look of perfect health and con-
tentment. Mothers should early realize that much
depends on How Baby is Fed. The right food
given at the proper age means rest and comfort
for the mother and a sound healthy constitution
for her little one in after years. If, for any
reason, Baby cannot be given the natural food,
do not select a substitute merely because it is
cheap in price. Adopt what experience has
proved to be the Simplest and Most Successful
Method of Infant Feeding, i.e., The ‘Allenburys’
Foods. These Foods provide a Pure, Complete and
Progressive Dietary specially adapted to each
stage of a child’s development. They are not
expensive to buy when judged by the uniform good
results which follow their use; this is the true
standard of comparison. The ‘Allenburys’Foods are
used and recommended by members of the Medical
and Nursing Professions throughout the world.
The Foods that contain all tha essential elements
to promote brain and body development.
»£llenbimjs Beads
PT Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management,”
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
MILK FOOD No. 1. From Birth to
3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. From 3 to
7 months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3. From
7 months upwards.
RUSKS (Malted). From 10 months.
THE ‘ALLENBURYS’ FEEDER
Simplest, Safest, and Best.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
13, Market Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
*• •
y/a
'
feeder w/
\h€
c Hjnbv


ft *&>
The Best
for Children
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
Coughs and Colds, is a universal favorite
with the Children, not only on account
of it being so pleasant to take, but
because it promptly banishes their
Coughs and Colds. It contains no
opiates or other poisons and
consequently, is as safe for the
youngest child as for older folk.
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
for Coughs and Colds
Prices,
1/6 and 3/-
The Latest
and Best
Stops Coughs 1
Banishes Colds
Men, women and children all over
the country use and know the worth
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Are you one of them? If not, don’t
delay, but buy a bottle at once, and
be ready to pounce on to the first
cold that makes its appearance.
Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is the ever-
ready friend that should be
in every household to protect
you from all Coughs and
Colds.
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
For Goughs and Golds.
Prices,
1/6 & 3/-
The Latest
anti Best.
The Jollywells
/ > &&
xjk-y.'-'m
vV"M
Down for the Show
The Jolly wells go
To gay Moore Parle,
Great sight—you know.
With glad surprise
And glowing eyes,
They tour the show
Oj wondrous size.
They watch the sheep
With interest deep,
Then to the ring
Their glances sweep.
A jolly hunch
They make at lunch,
And “Rex" Goods tasty,
They slowly munch.
When You Go
to the Show
Don’t depend on the usual “slap-up,” “slow-lunch”
counter. Don’t be content with ginger-beer and
cakes. Take along a few sandwiches made of
“REX”
am Pate
You can take a dozen if you like—all of them different —because “REX” HAM
PATE lends itself to variety.
You can interlay the slices of Buttered Bread with Lettuce Leaves, Sliced Egg,
Tomato, Cucumber, Olives, Horse-radish, etc.
Then, when meal-time comes, you can “tuck-in” to your appetite’s content, and
vote the Sandwiches “prize-winners.”
“REX” HAM PATE is a fine Sandwich spread, made from “Rex” Ham—
another prize-winner—cooked to a nicety, then minced fine and seasoned a la
“Rex” Chefs, with a mouth-watering dressing of pure spices.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR A
BD TIN TO-DAY AS A TRIAL. ——
Any of the following are worthy of a Blue Ribbon:
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Cheese in Deco-
rated Tins and Opal Porcelain
Jars of British manufacture.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Temporarily out of stock.
‘Rex” Brand Bard, for Cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
FO66ITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of et Rex ” Pure Food Products.
Weed-Tryst.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OCH, what would you see in the weeds
to-day,
Moiueen, Moineeu,
That you left your song and you left your
play,
Moineen, Moineen?
The thorn’s in bloom and the ash tree’s
green,
And a pedlar man s come up the way
With a pack of brooches and ribbons gay ;
Now what would you see in the weeds to-
day, OL
Moineen, Moineen ?
Och, the water’s green and the weeds are
wet.
What else would I see?
There’s a young codfish, but I have no net.
What else would I see?
Now what would the water be saying to me?
There’s a red weed there with a brown weed
met,
And five sea stars on a grey stone set,
And where’s the need for a girl to fret?
What else would I see?
Och, honey woman, you sit too long.
Moineen, Moineen !
’Tis a cold wet sight and the day goes wrong,
Moineen, Moineen !
Would you see dark things in the water’s
green ?
Would you watch for a sight of the fairy
throng
With their speech so soft and their spells
so strong?
Och, girl, ’tis a sin to hear their song.
Moineen, Moineen!
Now what would you make with your talk
to me?
And why would I rise?
’Tis a hole in the rocks with a sup of the
sea.
Och, why would I rise?
Is it feared I’d be of a sight of my eyes?
I’ll gather my kirtle over my knee,
And I’ll lift the weed and let them free,
So run and hide if it’s fairy or Shee
When I hid them rise.
She has put her foot in the waters cold.
Moineen, Moineen!
Come out, wild woman, the way you’re told.
Moineen, Moineen !
Och, sure, ’tis the strangest sight was seen
On a bed of weed with a crown of gold,
With a silver staff for his hands to h01d....
Och, heart, ’tis a king of the days of old !
Moineen, Moineen !
Is it dead he is or sleeping at all?
Och, leave him lie !
Were the men of Emen made so tall?
Girl, leave him lie!
Och, woman dear, ’tis a live man’s eye,
And the drawing tide begins to call.
Was that a word that his mouth let fall?
His breath comes up in the bubbles small.
Och, leave him lie!
She has lifted his cold hand wet with the
sea.
Moineen, Moineen!
She has raised his head on her naked knee.
Moineen, Moineen !
’Tis his dripping arm round her kirtle green,
’Tis his gold crown slipt from his temples
free,
’Tis his cold, blue eyes that look on me—•
Och, girl, that such things in the weed
should be—
Moineen, Moineen !
He has set a kiss on her mouth so red.
Och, shame and fear!
Her dark, sweet hair is over his head.
Och, shame and fear!
The tide comes up and the tide comes near,
And she will not rise till her word is said—
Och, girl, but they make you a cold wet
bed....
And the time goes slow with the sea-
drowmed dead—■
Och, shame and fear!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The Week I Worked.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IDO not like work. I never did. It
interferes with one’s digestion. That
is one of the reasons why it is quite un-
usual for me to do any. Of course, there
is some excuse for me, because my trade is
not one in which it is feasible to be busy
every single year. In fact I am nearly
always out of work. You will wonder, no
doubt, what my trade could possibly be.
When I tell you that I travel for smoked-
glass spectacles for observing eclipses you
will understand everything.
How do I manage to live between eclipses ?
I live in a cave by the seashore, and when I
am hungry I make a fire and cook crabs
and shellfish. I have relations who give
me their old clothes, their worn-out umbrel-
las, a loaf of bread occasionally, and some-
times a shilling. Whenever an eclipse is
about to take place I go from house to house
with my smoked-glass spectacles and make
quite .a lot of money.
It is some years ago now since I gave up
trying to get regular employment—gave it
np as a forlorn hope. My last attempt
lasted a week. I got the job through influ-
ence and a faked reference. It was in a
actory. My niece’s stepfather knew the
nianager. The manager owed him a lot of
money.
r J thought at first that there would be very
ittle for me to do, hut when I turned up to
work on Monday morning I found I was
mistaken. There were 840 bottles heaped
«P in a corner near a tap. I was told to
Zv i o V , f ’ r ! c inst antly and wash them all, the
’iole 846. I think that you will agree with
me that: there were far too many. I felt
rnat I would soon get tired. I get very
tired very easily.
! he hinch *on adjournment was an-
nounced by means of a large bell no one
was more pleased than I was. I put on my
coat and went home without any further
delay. I found that what I needed most
was a long lie down.
After a nap and a little light refreshment
with a head on it I felt in a slightly better
humor, so I lit a cigarette and strolled
slowly back to the factory. It was half-
past two when I got there. The foreman
was displeased to see me and “roused” fear-
fully for fully half an hour. As it was only
half-past two I felt that this was a little
unjust. Nearly everything I said, howevlr,
only seemed to make him more vexed, so I
had to promise at last that for the future
I would take only half an hour off at mid-
day instead of an hour and three-quarters.
At the same time I considered that half an
hour was not nearly sufficient, and I told
him so ; but he said that he didn’t want to
stop and argue with me any longer, as he
had a lot of work to do. He rushed away
from me looking more vexed than ever.
I found that no one had touched my pile
of bottles while I was away, and that there
were still 830 left for me to do. In order
to get a better start I took all my clothes
off, with the exception of a pair of water-
proof gloves. Cold water splashing on the
hands always gives me the shivers.
I now began to work at a very rapid rate,
and had almost finished another ten bottles
when I received a visitor. lie seemed sur-
prised to see me, and edging away near the
wall with a scared expression dashed past
me at express speed. I thought his behavior
somewhat singular, but as I had never
worked in a factory before, I resolved just
to go on with my work without taking any
notice of anything or anybody. Strange as
it may seem, the foreman became vexed with
me one day on this account alone.
Suddenly my meditations were brought
abruptly to a termination by a slash across
the bare back. Looking over my shoulder, I
saw that my first visitor had returned
and with him were about fifty others.
They were trying to lasso me. This sort
of thing was not to be tolerated for a
moment. I grappled with my assailants
and fought like a tiger. In the struggle the
table was overturned and my ten almost-
finished bottles fell on the cement floor and
were smashed. In the middle of the riot
the foreman appeared on the scene and made
unpleasant remarks. He seemed especially
dissatisfied with what I had to say, and
made me put my shirt and trousers on. He
also docked me for the ten broken bottles
and for another twelve that had become
damaged. As the floor was made of cement
instead of being padded I felt that I was
being victimised, and said so, but the fore-
man threatened to give me the instant sack
and a smack over the ear as well if I said
another word. I became profoundly
depressed.
Next morning I approached the foreman
on tiptoe and said that as an engineer I
felt that I was wasting the firm’s time
washing bottles. I am not an engineer at
all, and do not know anything whatever
about machinery, and to tell you the exact
truth I am rather afraid of it; but it is
unwise to always tell everybody the exact
truth. I asked to be given something to do
amongst the machinery.
The foreman was suspicious, and asked me
what I could do. I told him that I could
do everything from repairing condensers to
making adjustments. I have no exact idea
as to what a condenser is, unless it has
something to do with milk, and at all times
I am much more liable to make a mistake
than an adjustment, whatever that may be.
I merely felt that a few technical terms at
this juncture would harmonise and perhaps
deceive.
The foreman did not seem at all impressed,
but said that he would give me a trial, and
that it was my last chanoe.
For three days all went fairly well. Once
or twice, it is true, I forgot, and poured
sand down places where oil was being
squeaked for instead, and poured oil down
where sand was required, and on one occasion
I nearly had my head cut off, but merely lost
a large lump of hair torn out by the roots.
I must have come in contact with an endless
hand or a flywheel. But, as I say, all went
fairly well.
On the fourth day, however, this was not
the case. It was one of those days when
everything seems to go wrong. In the first
place, I did not get to work until rather
late, for the reason, as I explained to the
foreman, that I had become lost in a forest
of houses the previous evening, and had been
walking rapidly about in the pouring rain
all night. He asked me why I didn’t go to
sleep on the doorstep of one of the houses
instead. But the locality was, as I ex-
plained to him, an art suburb, and all the
houses were art houses; and there were no
doorsteps. He docked me for the hour that
I was late. So I was irritated even before
work commenced. With me this is always
a bad sign.
My second misfortune occurred about
ten o’clock. I was sauntering along a bal-
cony railing with my oilcan when my foot
slipped, and, grabbing at the wall to save
myself, I knocked the chief engineer’s hat
off a nail and it was instantly chewed to
pulp in the machinery.
I have seldom seen a man so wild about
such a trifling matter as a hat. His main
cause of annoyance seemed to be that it was
a new hat and cost him 325. 6d. I had to
promise to pay it, although I had no inten-
tion whatever of doing anything of the kind.
My third misfortune took place about an
hour later. I was standing in the very
middle of all the machinery, on what seemed
to be the lid of a tin which kept on bobbing
up and down with me. The sensation was
peculiar but enjoyable. Steam was sizzling
about everywhere, wheels whizzed, enormous
piston-rods just missed me as they rushed
up towards the ceiling, and great, shiny
arms waved all round me, opening and shut-
ting enormous steel hands, with a noise like
dozens of large dogs crunching dozens of
large bones.
I was just bending down to put a little
oil in the mainspring when I must have
overbalanced myself, because all at once I
felt one of the steel hands snap past my ear
(Continued on next page.)


ARM RIPPED BY BARBED WIRE'
Wound Festered and Inflamed, and Throbbf
Made Sleep Impossible Many Treatments Failed
MAN’S GRATITUDE TO ZAM-BUK
A
u
'i#
Mr. HILL, whose arm was
healed by Zam-Buk.
A BADLY poisoned arm, which
pled him for seven months w?"
the after results of Mr H ’1) ?, s
of 16 Windmill Street, New Farm,' f r ’
bane, trying to get through a barbed'
wire fence. Read Mr. Hill’s st r i
how, when the doctor’s treatment Sled
Zam-Buk performed a splendid healfi
feat. I was getting through a barbed®
tered and gradually became worse i«
the opening, the edges of which yawne
ai)art, matter filled in and my arm in.
/lamed in a terrible manner. The min
was awful, for the wound would throb
and throb, making it nigh unbearable
At night I could not sleep, and although
I used many remedies, as well as an
ointment which a doctor prescribed r
did not get any relief.
“After I had suffered for over seven
months a friend persuaded me to com
mence using Zam-Buk, as she herself
had great faith in it. I purchased a
supply, and shortly after the first appli-
cation, I obtained much ease. The inflam-
mation and throbbing pains were not so
bad, and a corresponding benefit was
noticed after each application. Inflam-
mation was drawn out and the wound
cleansed of all impurities. I persevered
with Zam-Buk until the injury had
completely knitted together and healed
up in a splendid manner.
“We always keep Zam-Buk by us.’’
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
•jod
jad
9/S
pU2
9/1
r
*
b
SOOTHES
and
HEALS,
to
to
99
Zam-Buk ends Eczema, Inflamed
Pimples, Bash and Scalp Sores; also Bad Legs,
Ulcers, Diseased Ankles, Piles, Festered Sores. Cuts,
Burns, Scalds, Swellings, Stiff Joints and Rheumatism.
In fact, Zam-Buk is so invaluable as an all-round healer
that no family should be without it. Of all chemists and
Ktnrps 1/6 and 3/6 per pot (3/6 size contains nearly four times the l/<
Hats capS
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
of English fashion and quality.
Makers —Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Christchurch,
tr
w-
ft
Swan.
ft
Choose
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The “Swam safety"
Catalogue free on request.
MAiSIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKL,
sow
and Jewellers.
Branches. „ dne y
Primrose Buildings, 255 a George ■>
and seize me by the back of the shirt. I
was lifted into the air until my head came
with a thud against the iron ceiling. I
was then plunged down into the basement
for a while, but was not long in reappearing
out of the tangle of machinery again on
another visit to the iron ceiling. But as I
felt a headache coming on I thought that it
was now time to let go, so I made a spring
with my legs, like acrobats do in a circus, at
a rod which was going in the opposite direc-
tion, muttering to itself and uttering a
horrible strangling sound ending in a kind
of sneeze. My attempt to seize it with my
legs was unsuccessful, and I fell head over
heels backwards, receiving a smack in the
stomach. This depressed me, and I made up
my mind to do nothing further in the matter.
Just as I was sliding down a long, narrow
box with splinters in it, towards eight rows
of steel teeth, opening and clicking together,
I felt myself grabbed by the boot. It was
the engineer. He gave me a severe box on
the ear and sent me on a message into town.
This took me all the afternoon.
The next day was Friday, and I was
looking forward eagerly to getting my pay,
as I had a lot of debts to settle and wanted
to buy a piece of land, an umbrella and
some tobacco. But owing to another acci-
dent, mv hopes in this direction were com-
pletely frustrated. As I heard afterwards
that I was blamed for the whole thing I will
tell you about it, so that you will be able to
form your own unbiased opinion. But
there is, after all, very little to tell.
I was doing something with a force-pump,
a piece of string and the second-engineer’s
pearl-handled penknife. Nobody seemed to
care what I did, or took the slightest notice
of me. The penknife slipped out of my hand
and fell down amongst the machinery. As
I knew that the second-engineer would re-
fuse to discuss the matter with me calmly
and in a refined way, I proceeded to recover
his penknife. This was a very dangerous
thing to do, and large notices were pasted
about everywhere warning people against
loitering except on business, and not on any
account to drop things into the machinery.
The knife seemed to have fallen into a
kind of basement where the gigantic piston-
rods and clutchers lived. Every second or
so one of these fierce monsters would rush
out of its den, muttering, foaming and trem-
bling with excitement. But as soon as it
had gone past me I could still see the pen-
knife gleaming in the light from the fur-
naces. So I watched my opportunity. Just
as an immense mass of glistening steel
soared out of the dark on its upward jour-
ney I jumped into the air, threw up my
arms, slid past it down through all the
machinery and fell flat on my stomach near
the penknife.
Gigantic pendulums swung backwards and
forwards quite near me, and huge metal
things which looked like colossal blind
beetles rocked to and fro, making remark-
able noises and dribbling oil. When the
next monster flung itself headlong back
into the den with an air of having all at
once forgotten something, I tried to crawl
through the floor, but instead of playing “hit
you last” with me, it paused with about
eight inches to spare between us, and I felt
a large drop of warm oil trickle slowly down
the back of my neck.
I now came to the conclusion that it was
time for me to do something, so, after pick-
ing up the penknife, I crawled along the
floor to where I could see the handles of
several taps and a lever. I pulled the lever
down with all my might, and turned on
three of the taps at once, to see what would
happen. There was a terrific explosion like
the bursting of a gasometer, the whole place
was instantly flooded with steam, and huge
lumps of broken metal clattered all about
me in a perfect shower. When the steam
cleared a little I saw that two of the big
beetle-like things had ceased to rock, and
had turned a complete somersault instead,
and that, the second-engineer had lost a por-
tion of his celluloid collar. All the machinery
that wasn’t broken began to behave in a
most incoherent and overheated manner, and
a tablespoonful of boiling water fell inside
my boot. I felt that it was time for me to
be going.
Under the circumstances I decided to send
round for my pay some other time, and left
the works by means of a long, underground
dram.
LES ROBINSON.
A Samaritan of the ’Loo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT’S dead funny ’ow pleasure will come
interfering with bizness. Th’uther
evenin’ I wus sittin’ on the kerb in
Dcok-street, busy balancin’ me accounts. I
wus a tray out an’ a bit worried over it.
Don’t think I wus cut up at ’avin’ p’raps
give some pot the wrong change—them acci-
dents are alwus likely to ’appen—but wot
’ad me wingin’ wuis wether the tray wus wot
me ole man calls hunhearned hincrement or
a try-on uv the ole woman’s. I’ve been
pinched by ’er a couple of times over
shortages. Well, I’d made up me mind ter
stow the tray down south an’ get back on
the corner, when Nutto Chambers pokes his
’cad round inter the street.
“Eh, Smacker!” ’e calls. “Come ’ere
quick.”
“Carn’t,” ses I. “I’ve gotter get rid uv
anuvver dozen before I come down the road.”
“Yer’ll miss the fun if yer do,” chuckled
Nutto. “Car’n, Smacker.”
“Well, wot’s known?” ses I, feelin’ a bit
inquisitive.
“There’s an ole pot down the road tryin’
ter post a letter in the fire-alarm,” ses ’e.
That seemed ter me tod good a lurk ter
be missed. I reckoned I could spare meself
a few minutes smoke-oh, even if I ’ad ter
buy some er me own papers wif the tray
ter soothe the ole worfian ; so I picks up me
stock-in-trade an’ ’ooks on ter Nutto.
Sure enough, there’s an ole waybaek tryin’
ter squeeze er letter inter the ’ole in the
fire-alarm door which ses, “Please break the
glass an’ pull.” Er course there ain’t any
glass in this one. The firemen ’ave got tired
er puttin’ in glass round the Loo. An’ yer
carn't blame the boys exactly—when there's
metal about wot can yer expect? Anyway,
this ’ere waybaek wus that fresh yer could
smell the gum-leaves on ’im.
Ole whiskers (’e grew ’em everywhere
except on ’is teeth) wus lookin' fit ter cry,
an’ the letter didn’t look any the better fer
the twistin’ it ud been gettin’.
“Wot’s the matter, mister?” I ses.
“I wanter post this letter most perticerly,”
ses whiskers, “but I carn’t find where ter
put it. I lef’ me specs at ’ome, so I carn’t
read the notice.” ’E pointed ter the place
wot tells yer that the John ’Ops ’ull slug
yer if yer caught muckin’ about with the
alarm. , . ,
“That ses,” ses I, “that the mail is. closed
fer the night, an’ it won’t be open till ter-
morrer mornin’.”
I thort the old un wus goin’ ter blub, e
got such a queer look on ’is dial, an’ ’e
sorter gulped.
“I guessed it must ’ave closed, ses e,
“fer I couldn’t find an openin’ ter put the
letter in, an’ I want this letter ter go most
important.”
’E looked that green it knocked me bandy
ti think ’ow ’e ever gotter Sydney, an’ ’ow
’e struck the ’Loo is a fair stretcher.
“Young feller,” ’e ses at last, tryin’ ter
straighten the letter a bit, as it wus lookin’
a bit frayed at the edges through tryin’ ter
get it past the knob wdth “Pull” on it —
“young feller,” ’e ses, “that letter’s gotter
get away ter-night. Now wot would you
advise?”
“Well, there’s one way,” I ses, but it
may be a bit liexpensive.”
“ ’Ang the expense,” ses the ole sport.
“I wanter catch the mail.”
“Then orl yer gotter do,” ses I, “is ter pull
the ’andle an’ ring up the telephone fer the
post office ter send the mail boy down fer the
letter.”
“An’ ’ow much will that cost?” ses ’e.
“Give the bloke a tanner,” ses I.
“A tanner!” ’e repeats, sorter dazed.
Funny ’ow some ole birds don’t know the
value er money, so I ’ad ter explain ter ’im
’ow much a tanner wus.
“Well,” ses ’e, “ ’ere’s sixpence fer yerself
if yer’ll ring up fer me. They ain’t got
telephones where I come from.”
I stowed the tanner, looks roun’ ter see
there’s no John about, an’ signs ter Nutto
ter keep nit. I pulls open the door, turns
the ’andle, takes off the ear-piece an’ listens.
Gum, I w t us surprised the quick way the
cove at the other end answered.
“Hullo, wot’s the matter?” ses ’e.
“Quick, yer wanted down ’ere,” ses I,
speakin’ in a low voice.
“Where’s ’ere?” ses ’e.
“Down William-street; it’s a good job,”
ses I.
“ ’Oo’s speakin’ ?” ses ’e.
“Constable Murphy,” ses I, naming the
copper on the beat.
“Oh, that you, Spud?” ses ’e. “We’ll be
down in a tick.”
I gives Nutto the -whistle ter get, an’ I
tells the ole sport ter wait there an’ the cart
ud be down in a second an’ that I ’ad ter get
away ter sell me papers or me mother ud
lather me. ’E pats me ’ead an’ ses: “God
bless yer, me boy.” I ’ad me doubts wether
’e would, though.
Nutto an’ I took up er post in the shadder
uv er shop just roun’ the corner. We ’ad
’ardly got fixed w’en up dashes the engine.
The firemen orl tumble orf an’ start lookin’
fer the fire, an’ ole whiskers stan’s there by
the open fire-alarm with the letter in one
’and an’ a ’arf a deener in the other. The
officer soon ’ad ’is serspishuns that • there
wcr.'n’t no fire an’ ’e goes up ter our friend
from the country.
“Wus it yoo give us a call?” ’e arsks,
sorter angry.
“No, not me,” ses whiskers, ’is eyes orl
staring outer ’is’ ead at the smokin’ engine
an’ all the brass. The ’orses took his fancy
most.
“Fine pair er bays yer got over yonder,”
’e chirps.
“Damn the bays! I wanter know ’oo rang
up on the alarm,” snaps out the officer.
“Oh,” ses the ole sport with a smile. “I
didn’t recergnise yer in those clothes. Yer
the man I’m waitin’ fer then. I gotter boy
ter ring up fer me. I’m sorry ter give yer
orl this trouble through missin’ the post;
but ’ere’s the letter an’ there’s the money
fer it.”
Th’ officer looked that narked I thought
’■9 wus goin’ ter bu’st.
“ ’Oo th’ell d’yer take me fer?” ’e yelled.
“Ain’t yoo the postman?” arsks Whiskers,
calm.
“Th’ officer couldn’t speak fer a minit.
W’en.’e got ’is wind ’e giv ’im such a refer-
ence it made the ole man’s whiskers smoke.
Then ’e sings out: “Brigade, mount!” an’
drove off, leavin’ the poor ole bloke won-
derin’ where ’e wus. Then I strolls roun’
the corner.
“Hullo,” I ses, “get yer letter away orl
right?”
“No,” ses ’e. “I think yoo muster made a
mistake. The feller that called looked like
the Fire Brigade an’ wouldn’t take me
letter.”
“ ’Ow tiresome!” ses I. “Them telephone
people are aw r fly careless. They muster nut
me on the wrong place.”
“I must get this letter posted,” ses ’e,
lockin’ more worried than ever.
“Don’t yoo worry any more about it,” ses
I. “I’ll take the letter meself ter the gen-
eral.” Fair dinkum, I thought ’e would
”ave kissed me, ’e looked that grateful.
Yew can betcher life I didn’t sprint ter
the general with that letter ; I just shuved
it in the first pillar-box I run against.
I never expected ter see ole whiskers
again, but a few nights after someone sang
out uv a tram fer a paper. I ’ops on an’
there’s me noble. ’E took a paper an’ tips
me a pleased-ter-see-yer smile.
“The letter caught the mail,” ses ’e, “an’
yer can keep the change.” It was a bob,
too. Ever see anythin’ so easv? I never
A. M. W.


An Economical Portable Outfit
CONSISTING OP
A WESTINGHOUSE “CROSS” OIL ENGINE
w
m
MOUNTED ON A
STEEL GIRDER
UNDERCARRIAGE.
The Engine has NO
delicate Mechanism to
get out of order, and con-
sumes the MINIMUM
amount of kerosene
per B.H.P.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8.0.5 to —
mse
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne /Zealand Office: 93-10 Z Faatherston St., Wellington.
Concord West, N.5.W.
D O N’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFEGUARD You* HEaltH
OtJ.C«His Brown*
CWoredyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE lOR
Coughs, Co /c/s, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
all atta,
cuts
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/8, 3/-, 5 /-.
Made in England.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold,Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, y our name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s Eng-fish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogrs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
MR. HOTELKEEPER, you will make your business more profitable
by installing in your Hotel
Eckersley’s Dispensers
for the rapid and economic production of
Draught Aerated Waters.
These Machines are now used in many of the leading
Hotels throughout Australia, and we give below names of
a few Sydney users:—
Mr. J. B. Belfield, Relfield’s Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mr. W. H. Watson, Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Mr. W. B. Richardson, Railway Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Mr. J. P. Barry, Lansdowne Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mrs. Messenger, Hotel, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mr. A. Nonnrus, British Empire Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Grand Pacific Hotel, Manly.
A large number of our Machines are also in use in
Suburban and Country Hotels in New South Waieis*
machines supplied on terms.
Catalogs from
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland,
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A,
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 25a George Street West, Sydney ; and South Melbourne.
m
,
m
IF SO,
TRY
/
“FED UP”?
t
r>
D
Zhis advertisement is reproduced fronj a drawing by
a SOLDIER ARTIST at the FRONT.
The tool with 5 big features
the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
are
Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
2]
If any illustration appearing in tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WE CATER FOR THE WANTS OF
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
m
No matter what your
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-CARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
,
m li
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
.
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
We can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, LUBRICATORS, METAL-
LIC TUBES & SHEETS of ALL
descriptions, PETROL COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOOLS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc.; etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the FAMOUS
BCHEBLER CARBURETTER.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROYIT
LEATHER
9m
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
You See "STAR"
Lathes Everywhere
And there’s a reason for their popu-
larity. Every mechanic appreciates a
simple design and in the Star you will
find simplicity, rapidity of operation,
and compactness among the many
points of their excellence.
IN STOCK, TREADLE AND POWER.
Sole Agents > —
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
It is the Powe
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
S 3
2Z>.
%
H
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
SOL IS AOBNTB—
Hardie 8 Co.
Clroular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footsoray, Victoria.
BOUNDERS
No. 20 Planer
PLANES, 12in. x Ain.
Ball Bearings to all
Spindles.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustments to Side
Heads.
Delivery from
Sydney Stock.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
■■■'***&
f
im
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
OIL ENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian Agents:—
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'en
ts
iii
sy
ALL
BRITISH
MADE.
Solo Agents for Australia—
DANGAR GEDYE & CO # # 9-1 S YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
ON THE ONE HAND
UNBURNT Refuse
Result —FLIES, SMELLS,
SICKNESS, DIRT,
TYPHOID.
Prices and Particulars
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
m m
m
-r/.tT.UI
CAR
CTC
mm
wr
WiJZ&ii&'S*
ON THE OTHER HAND
All Refuse Absolutely Destroyed
in an Australian-made
CUTHRIDC DESTRUCTOR
NO FLIES, NO SMELLS,
Health-Giving Cleanliness.
Install One in Your House NOW,
IT COSTS LESS THAN A DOCTOR.
EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY
