

AB 7 S ——The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. <3k WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 IKssmti Strootl, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
5
•traxNnoosia s^ma
*AXI>mO3S jo lf« t*Q
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D $1 C
01*
“Daily Telegraph”
74 CASTLE
New Building.
AGH
"«!
And
T, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
<4O Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
sggd
fgd
Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
gfdfgd
gdg fg
NTTHMC
uMum)
PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
f
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
RAN SEN’S
JL_
a
ƒg
for INDIGESTION
antt DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
fg
HOBART
.
1
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE SiLVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
¥ & a. »oof US *of
Mar we send booklet* amd
samples of this rooflag material
that is “not the same as others”?
fgdfdgd
The Paraf
tint Oempanr, OHeMle Meuse,
ante In ell States.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY V
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTiVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOQK OF ALL. DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL. Sc FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE 0 CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS,
AH3NIHJVW
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
3XSVd
HXOOX
f fg
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1918.]
[Thursday, November 16, 1916.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


EW FICTION
(all recommended)
Bower’s Phantom Herd.
Chambers’s The Girl Philippa.
Mason’s Golden Hope.
McHarg & B.: The Blind Man’s Eyes.
Brady’s Web of Steel.
Sullivan: Star of the North.
Paine: The Long Road Home.
Tompkins: Seed of the'Righteous.
Pritchard’s Windlestraws.
Stevens: And What Happened.
Lerrigo’s The Castle of Cheer.
Locke’s Far Away Stories.
ALL AT 4/- PER VOL., POSTED 4/S.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 23S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ran
v:
7
o 9 *
«*•»
£
fei *s «
p
«•
MUSTDIE-
KILLS FLIES
The Red Page
War
John Masefield has written the finest
account that has yet appeared of the Gal-
lipoli adventure. Sydney de Logue’s The
Straits Impregnable remains the most im-
pressive personal narrative; but Masefield’s
imagination is so remarkable that from a
few months’ sojourn with the Red Cross at
Gallipoli he is enabled to present what
seems to be the circumstantial testimony of
an eyewitness present during the whole
campaign. In Gallipoli (Ileinemann, per
Dymock’s Library) Masefield presents him-
self as the ideal historian, combining a won-
derful grasp of the complicated strategy of
the campaign with the grim realism that
enforces the human personal note. The
reader-is not merely following the history of
this forlorn adventure; he is fighting in
the ranks beside John Masefield. And the
story is written with so charming a style
that its place in our literature should be
permanent. Take a glorious passage like
this, describing the departure of the fleet of
transports from Lemnos on the way to The
Landing:—•
“Ship after ship, crammed with soldiers,
moved slowly out of harbor in the lovely
day, and felt again the heave of the sea.
No such gathering of fine ships has ever-
been seen upon this earth, and the beauty
and the exultation of the youth upon them
made them like sacred things as they moved
away They had said good-bye to home
that they might offer their lives in the
cause we stand for. In a few hours at most,
as they well knew, perhaps a tenth of them
would have looked their last on the sun, and
be a part of foreign earth or dumb things
that the tides push. Many of them would
have disappeared for ever from the know-
ledge of men, blotted from the book of life
none would ever know how- —by a fall or
chance shot in the darkness, in the blast of
a shell, or alone, like a hurt beast, in some
scrub*or gully, far from comrades and the
English speech and the English singing. And
perhaps a third of them would be mangled,
blinded or broken, lamed, made imbecile or
disfigured, with the color and the taste of
life taken from them, so that they would
never more move with comrades nor exult in
the sun... .But... .all they felt was a glad-
ness of exultation that their young courage
was to be used. They went like kings in a
pageant to the imminent death....”
Masefield can write like that —and there
are many more passages as beautiful—
because to him “this failure is the second
grand event of the war; the first was Bel-
gium’s answer to the German ultimatum.”
And for the Anzacs he can hardly find
enough words of praise. “They were the
finest body of j ? oung men ever brought
together in modern times. For physical
beauty and nobility of bearing they sur-
passed any men I have ever seen; they
walked and looked like the kings in old
poems and reminded me of the line in
Shakespeare: J Baited like eagles having
lately bathed .’ As their officers put it, ‘they
were in the pink of condition and didn’t
care a damn for anybody.’ There was no
thought of surrender in those marvellous
young men; they were the flower of this
world’s manhood, and died as they had lived,
owning no master on this earth When a
big shell was coming men of other races
would go into their dugouts, but these men
paused only to call it a bastard, and then
went on with their work.”
Of the greatness of the adventure Mase-
field has no doubts. “No army in history
has made a more heroic attack ; no army in
history has been set such a task. No other
body of men in any modern war has been
called upon to land over mined and wired
waters under a cross fire of machine guns.
Our men achieved a feat without par-
allel in war, and no other troops in the
world (not even Japanese or Ghazis in the
hope of Heaven) would have made good
those beaches on the 25tli of April.” And
clearly he puts down the reasons why that
great emprise just missed being a great vic-
tory. It all comes back to the old cry:
“We had not the men nor the munitions.”
“Had the 50,000 tnen who came there in
July and August been there in June, our
men could have kept on striking. But
our victory could not be followed up. More
than a month passed before it could be
followed up. During that month the Turks
dug themselves new fortresses, brought up
new guns, made new stores of ammunition
and remade their army. Their beaten troops
were withdrawn and replaced by the very
pick and flower of the Turkish Empire.
When we attacked again we found a very
different enemy; the jron was cold, and we
had to begin again from the beginning.”
And early in May Sir lan Hamilton had
learnt that the Gallipoli affair, instead of
being a part of a concerted scheme, was to
be the only attack upon the Turks in that
quarter. In its later stages the scheme
called for an attack by the Russians from
the Black Sea, which would keep the main
Turkish army at Constantinople, instead of
letting it overwhelm the Mesopotamia expe-
dition and hold back the Grand Duke in
the Caucasus. But Russia found that she
could not give that necessary aid, and w r e
had to hold up the whole Turkish army on
Gallipoli. Masefield has no answer to the
question why more men and more high
explosives were not sent—in time. All he
can say is that the delay lost us a cam-
paign that we had practically won.
Of the tragical Suvla Bay muddle, Mase-
field presents a vivid and accurate picture.
The tactical scheme of that confused battle
is made clear —for the first time in print;
and, thus presented, it is of absorbing inter-
est. It is a terrible story of mistakes and
delay—not Anzac mistakes, not Anzac delay.
The English at last reached the top of
Chanuk. “Victory was flooding up over
Chanuk like the Severn tide ; our men had
scaled the scarp, and there below them lay
the ditch, the long- grey streak of the
Hellespont, the victory and the reward of
victory. The battle lay like a field ripe to
the harvest; our men had but to put in the
sickle. The third column was the sickle of
that field, that third column which had lost
its way in the blackness of the wilderness.”
But it was coming up the hill at that
moment, when our own guns shelled the
crest for some minutes too long and prac-
tically wiped out that brave handful of vic-
tors !
Masefield brings home to his reader the
grim realities of that campaign as hitherto
no other writer except Sydney de Logue has
done. He has many new things to tell, such
as his explanation of the inaction of the
Turks at the two evacuations; his history of
the campaign is . complete and lucid, but his
admiration for the soldiers who did the im-
possible remains the clearest note in this
pcean of heroism.
“In the haze of the full moon the men
filed off from the trenches to the beaches,
and passed away from Gallipoli, from the
unhelped attempt which they had given their
bodies and their blood to make. They had
lost no honor. They were not to blame,
that they were creeping off in the dark, like
thieves in the night. Had others (not of
their profession), many hundreds of miles
away, but been as they, as generous, as wise,
as foreseeing, as full of sacrifice, those
thinned companies with the looks of pain in
their faces, and the mud of the hills thick
upon their bodies, would have given thanks
in Santa Sophia three months before. They
had failed to take Gallipoli, and the mine-
fields still barred the Hellespont, but they
had fought a battle such as has never been
seen upon this earth. What they had done
will become a glory for ever, wherever the
deeds of heroic unhelped men are honored
and pitied and understood. They went up
at the call of duty, with a bright banner of a
?^ fc i e ' cry ’ a £ ainst an impregnable fort.
Without guns, without munitions, without
help, and without drink, they climbed the
scarp, and held it by their own glorious
manhood, quickened by a word from their
chief. Now they were giving back the scarp,
and going out into new adventures, wherever
the war might turn.”
Hilaire Belloc’s Second Phase of A General
Sketch of the European War (Nelson, per
Sydney Book Club) reconstructs for us in
detail and with a remarkable number of
plans and explanatory maps the battle of
the Marne. It is this battle that, in the
judgment of Belloc and that other excellent
war historian, de Souza, will prove to have
been the decisive battle of the war. For both
these critics agree that since this battle
smashed the original plan of the German
Staff, it is a defeat not only of their armies
but of their entire strategy. Here, almost
miraculously, the assassin stumbled as he
struck his blow. For Belloc’s analysis of
the contending forces shows that the Ger-
mans at the Marne had 75 divisions against
51—-practically more than seven men to the
Allies’ five. The superior force was defeated
by _an inferior force/ owing to the error
which kept the main body of the Germans
massed near Verdun. On the rest of the
line, where the action took place, the forces
were nearly equal.
Incidentally, 'Belloc confirms a Swiss
critic’s assertion that the Germans missed
their great chance when they decided to come
via Belgium, instead of smashing through
Verdun. They would have had short com-
munication lines through friendly territory.
The Germans could have smashed Verdun
with the ease with which they smashed
Liege. For it was that lesson of Libge,
learned by the French with such marvellous
swiftness, that saved Verdun. Through the
Verdun gate the masses of the Hun, with
both flanks protected, would have triumph-
antly poured straight down upon Paris. But
the Bosche thought of Verdun too late.
What happened at the Marne, as Belloc’s
reader will be surprised to find, was quite
simple. The Germans meant to curve down
in a gigantic sweep to the west, with their
eastern wing relatively stationary, and, dis-
regarding Paris, sharply coil their western
flank around the French army, and sur-
round it. But the Hun, in the midst of his
triumphant southerly sweep, was surprised to
find a new French army upon his flank.
There was then only one thing to do, to thin
out his line to the west, .to support the
threatened wing, while the German centre
continued its pre-arranged plan to smash the
French centre, and thus dislocate the whole
French army. In that effort, which so nearly
succeeded, the Germans left a gap in their
line, and through that gap Foch triumph-
antly stormed, severing the German army
and compelling it incontinently to retire all
along the line. “The whole victory turns
out to be a defeat suffered by a greatly
superior force at the hands of a greatly
inferior force, not through surprise nor
through the sudden massing of men against
a weak spot, but from a spontaneous dis-
memberment of the superior force, of which
dismemberment the inferior force at once
takes advantage.” That error in German
tactics “will prove to have determined all
the future of the modern world.”
Belloc pleasantly forecasts the judgment
of the historian on the result if the Germans
had broken the French centre—and how very
nearly they did! “The French, with the con-
tingent of their British Allies, attempted to
redress the desperate situation due to their
inferiority of number by a surprise attack
with insufficient force upon the German
right flank. But the Ist German army
parried this effort in time, enveloped the
Allied left wing in their turn, and meanwhile
broke the Allied centre, thereby deciding the
whole issue in their favor. The Allied army
was cut in two fragments, one of which was
pushed back upon Paris and contained, the
other enveloped towards the eastern fron-
tier and destroyed. Upon the western rem-
nant thus contained, after the destruction of
the eastern half, the whole mass of the in-
vaders next turned in numbers three to one,
and this amazing campaign of three weeks
was at an end.”
Jt
The three phases of the battle are studied
and explained by Belloc with extreme lucid-
ity. The author points out one minor weak-
ness in the German Higher Command which
contributed to the defeat. This was “an
eye to dramatic effect.” A sort of triumphant
entry into Nancy had been planned for the
Emperor. “On the critical day of the action
the little, aged figure of that unfortunate
man whose physical disabilities were, per-
haps, in part responsible for the war, was to
be seen from the French lines watching the
battle.... He was distant from the nearest
observers by more than the common range of
a field-piece; he was caught only by the care-
ful scanning of glasses... .Grouped about
was the ‘brilliant staff’ of the newspapers
and the stage; and the White Cuirassiers,
which was to be the escort of his triumph,
were massed to the left and behind. He had
also put on for that day the white uniform
of that corps and the silver helmet. It was
pathetic and a little grotesque.” At the end
of that fatal day the Kaiser went home and
took off his gorgeous uniform.
But though the battle was woU by the
Allies it was not the complete defeat that
Joffre had planned. Whose the fault was is
not yet clear—may never be clear; but if the
British could have come up earlier or the
French army on the left wing could have
delayed their flanking movement, the Ger-
man right wing under Kluck would have
been destroyed.
Belloc ably disposes of the idea that the
new phase of trench warfare was foreseen
and provided for by the Germans. Their
provision of machine guns was expressly for
active fighting in the field and for the check-
ing of local counter-offensives; their giant
guns were for the induction of fortresses.
But both, to their surprise, proved invalu-
able in the trench-warfare to which they
were pinned. The line the Germans held so
long unchanged was not the line they chose,
but the line they were compelled to choose,
else why should - they have abandoned the
possession of the Channel ports?
Finally, in one sentence Belloc states the
grave defect in the German machine, the
defect chiefly responsible for the defeat at
the Marne: “A sort of routine incapable of
correcting itself in time; the momentum, as
it were, of a huge engine working smoothly,
enormous in design, but lacking elasticity
altogether.”
Billzac
His first hefty prints on the sands of time
were noticed in April, 1915, and, in the
manner of his coming he puts on recoi’d his
right to stay. A young, full-blooded animal,
tasting his first big fight, and carrying in
his hands the good name of a young and
untried country, he wrote that name in defi-
nite characters on the roll of nations. Above
his love of adventure he fights for what he
considers right, merely because in his judg-
ment it is right, and without either hope of
reward or fear of consequences, but it is
questionable if, finding himself in wrong, he
would not still bog in; for although not a
lover of scrap for its own sake, .once in he
hates to leave it unfinished. Generous him-
self, with the true generosity that forgets
the gift given or service rendered imme-
diately it is accomplished, he is a trifle in-
tolerant of those whom custom and environ-
ment have made more cautious. He owns a
healthy pride in his country, which, while
not blatant, he will cheerfully demonstrate
to any who would belittle, in his hearing,
the land of his birth. A good sport bihjself,
he recognises a brother sport anywhere, and
will meet him on terms of equality, even if
he happens to be an earl —or a fish-hawker.
His sense of humor is the last one he loses,
and if rather grim at times, the fact that
he sees a joke in a cobber’s downfall does
not make his practical sympathy less spon-
taneous. His code with women, in fact, his
whole moral code, can be summed up in a
sentence—“Do a fair thing all round”—and
his shortcomings in this respect are those of
the male all the world- over, no better and
no worse. Loyal in the main to those in
authority, over him, if he considers that a
superior is not as good a man as himself he
doesn’t get headaches planning how to hide
the fact. His motto, if he had time for such
a kindergarten appliance, would be: “Be
dinkum, you !” A new-born race of men.
their eyes newly opened, in the most terrible
of all schools, to broader views of men and
things, they are full men’s size, and would
improve, the stock of any nation on the
planet, if the progeny is as good as its fore-
bears, Which is doubtful.
—Bill Badd.
■ —•
“Bill. Badd”: “Copabella’s” brilliant exposition of
the social problem is unfortunate in that it gets no-
where in particular. If sex relation is to become a casual
conversational subject such as dancing or the advan-
tages of the tote, there is all the material for a
gorgeous hatful of trouble for the community making
the experiment. Flapperdom is admittedly well
versed in the subject, but the very fact that the
knowledge is clandestine makes for restraint. Re-
move that and the only unexplored field for the flapper
in search of wisdom is personal experience. Results
are fairly obvious. The main difficulty is with the
flapper. Wearing no man’s particular label, she is
fair hunting for any predatory male, and if her
knowledge of the pursuit and its object are to be
accepted as an ordinary characteristic, and socially
approved, she must be otherwise protected. The
only logical sequence is to make seduction illegal,
and to say that the law is powerless to prevent it is
piffle. I know several highly-respected merchants who
are only restrained from plain swindling because the
law says no. It doesn’t follow that there are no
Swindlers, and there would still be seducers, but the
frisky flapper would have a definite knowledge of the
result of disregarding the regulations of society,
which with all her vaunted shrewdness she hasn’t got
now. One law on the statute book is worth a whole
constitution of the unwritten article.
“An Ignorant Innocent” writes this amaz
ing, but genuine letter:—
Re “Copabella’s” assertion that the
aren’t any innocents over 10 years of age
(B. 2S/9/T6). I wonder what he would
think (I suppose he’s a he) of a girl— 01
should I say, a woman—of 23 being an inno-
cent of innocents; a greenhorn as regards
anything to do with sex matters? What the
White Slave Trade is, or the Red Plague, or
any of the other things that happen I haven’t
the faintest conception.
Of a baby, and the necessary things to be
done if one is wanted, or to be avoided if one
isn’t, I know nothing. In fact, my knowledge
of a baby is not advanced from the time two
decades ago when I asked in a piping treble
how I was born. Then I was told I was born
of the dust. And ever afterwards for years
whenever I saw dust bowling along the street
I would say to my mother: “What a lot of
babies are being born now!”
Perhaps “Copabella” would say I was a
numbskull, a brainless ninny, to have no more
knowledge than a 10-years’-old child of these
days. But I’m neither one nor the other. I
don’t say I don’t want to know. I would like
to know. I think I ought to know. But how
am I to know? These things are not learnt
by intuition.
I have often been led to think there must be
something extremely objectionable about the
whole concern of marriage. There is so
much mystery about it all. Babies just
happen. And no questions must be asked.
Why? One would think that the coming of
a baby would be such a noble, natural, glori-
ous thing that it would be spoken about as
any natural thing should be. Why isn’t it?
What is wrong about it? Or is it that it’s
so holy; and we do not speak about holy
things? Then why punish a girl who is the
bearer of a holy thing because she has not
repeated a bald formula before a clergyman?
It is all very perplexing. So I don’t bother
to think of it often. Thinking about it won’t
give me knowledge.
I have three brothers, a sister, a father
and a mother. I went to a convent till I
was 15, and then to the Sydney High School
for a couple of years ; and for the remaining
number of years till now have lived at a
surfing suburb within a few miles of the
“wicked” city of Sydney. And yet, notwith-
standing that since I could read, and many
years before, that demoralising publication
The Bulletin has been a weekly visitant
to our home, I’m as ignorant of the vital
things of life as a five-year-older. I’m a
great reader, too. It’s my one passion. But
I have not gone in for books with purple
patches. I read your criticisms, dear Red
Page, and that suffices. I am old-fashioned
and behind the times with my books as with
everything else.
I am glad there are many things a girl
can do these days besides marrying. So I
suppose I will jog through the world as
unknowing as I now am; keeping men at
arm’s length. For so my intuition —my only
teacher—tells me I shall escape any evil.
What the evil is I don’t know.
(Naturally I could not sign my name to
this outpouring. But, believe me, I am
genuine ; though “Copabella”—l nearly write
Copper Top each time —might not think so.
He would be astounded at my ignorance if
he knew the full extent of it. But then I
never go to enlightening picture-shows. Four
years ago saw my last entry into one. They
don’t appeal to this child. They’re too ludi-
crously melodramatic.)
The almost incredible thing about this letter is _
the writer’s admission that she has a mother. What
is a mother for if she does not instruct her daughter
in the elementary facts of sexual knowledge? The
writer is first referred to her mother for the informa-
tion she seeks and should have. Failing that source,
she can purchase, say at Dymoek’s, any of the excel-
lent books on sex matters written in such a way as
to give no offence to the most sensitive mind. This
page recommends, in this order, such books as Her-
self, by Dr. E. B. Lowry; What a Young Woman
Ought to Know, by Dr. Mary Wood-Allen; or Tok-
ology, by Alice B. Stockman; and, for information
about syphilis, the cheap edition of Brieux’ Damaged
Goods, the production of which at the Criterion is
expressly designed to enlis-hten the public on this
scourge.
• * '
Contributors who" answer our inquiry:
“What Does Billzac Read?” need not trouble
to tell us that what he chiefly wants is The
Bulletin. For thus a number of corres-
pondents have already notified this page.


V
Anthony Horderns’ for STYLISH SUMMER BLOUSES
Dl<
ouses
077
7~
Fashion and
Economy go
hand in hand at
the New Palace
Emporium, where all
that is new in the
World of Dress is
shown in variety that
will meet the require-
ments of every purse.
Ladies who cannot
inspect the Magnifi-
cent Display should
consult our Summer
Fashion Portfolio.
Write for a copy,
posted free on request;
it will solve the prob-
lem of inexpensively
conforming to the pre-
vailing modes in these
days of National
Economy.
No. 93. Muslin Blouse, showing the latest Collar, finished
Lace Insertion, finely tucked front, fastens crochet buttons—
-19/11
No. 23. — Crepe de Chine Blouse, in ivory, Black and
Navy, Collar and Cuffs with Picot-edged frill 27/6
No. 13. Ninon Blouse, over White Net, Collar, Cuffs and
Front finished with border of Cream Taffeta, smocked at
shoulder, in Black, Navy, Sky, Shell 29/11
No. 03. Ninon Blouse, in Black over printed floral Voile,
finished with washable Muslin Collar 22/6
No. 83. —Ninon Blouse, over Net trimmed Insertion of Filet
Lace, and hemstitched Black, Navy, Cream 42/-
No. 43.— Crepe de Chine Blouse, in Cream, and new
highwayman cape effect, Collar and Cuffs of Black Taffeta—
xr ~ . 29/11
NO. 53. Ninon Blouse, in Navy or Black over White Net,
with newest Taffeta-frilled Collar 26/6
No. 33 Taffeta Silk Blouse, with Raglan shoulder and new
frill Collar, Black or Navy 25/6
No. 63.—Ninon Blouse, lined Net, with new
Collar, fastened front with Rosette ribbon bow,
Pink, Sky
Georgette
in Cream,
• • 357-
No. 73. Ninon Blouse, with Self-pleated frilled Collar and
Cuffs, fastens Pearl Buttons 27/6
WE are Family
Drapers, Com-
plete House
Furnisher s
and Universal Pro-
viders, and offer three-
quarters of a million
pounds’ worth of the
World’s Choicest Com-
modities, in variety
that puts all competi-
tive effort in the shade.
Write for Illustrated
Price Lists of anything
you want, post free on
request. They place
the immense resources
of the new Palace Em-
porium at the com-
mand of everyone, and
enable no end of sav-
ings to be effected
through the agency of
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
.DAINTYiftbVOILE BLOUSES,
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
W
*9
*3
*»•
«3*
49
4 2
43
41
46
7/11
6/11
12/11
7/11
9/11
A
t
v\
f
::::
::::
9/il
::::
::::
45
50
10/6
12/11
43
12/11
12/11
No. 49.— Voile Blouse, with latest idea in Cape effects,
daintily trimmed narrow Valenciennes Insertion.. 12/11
No. 43. Muslin Blouse, with heavily-embroidered front, Col-
lar hemstitched. Exceptional value 6/11
No. 40. Voile Blouse, in new White Check Lawn, Collar
and Cuffs, finished Lace, fastens with jabot 12/11
No. 42.— Voile Blouse, in White, trimmed with Lace Inser-
tion, and turned-back Collar and Cuffs 7/11
No. 41 .■ — Muslin Blouse, in a plain but smart style, with
hemstitched front, embroidered Organdi C011ar.... 7/11
No. 45. Muslin Blouse, in White Organdi, fully cut, and
finely hemstitched, laced front with cord 10/6
No. 48. Muslin Blouse, neatly tucked down front, double-
frill Collar and Cuffs 12/11
No. 47. Voile Blouse, With new Cape Collar and Cuffs,
Picot Edge, with Black Stitching and fasten Buttons 9/11
No. 46. Voile Blouse, in White, the Cape and Cuffs trimmed
with Check Voile 9/11
No. 50. —Parisienne Lawn Blouse, showing the latest
Collar and Cuffs, threaded with Ribbon Insertion.. 12/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


gf ffg
Rifles and Cartridges
It
“SURE I USE ’EM!
I’ve been usin’ ’em
for a number of
years and expect
to continue to, as
they always do
the business.”
Ask any dyed-in-the-
wool sportsman about
Winchester rifles and
cartridges and that’s
about what he’ll tell you.
They are made in various
sizes for all kinds of
\ shooting and you’ll get
them if you ask for
!THE
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soai)
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
ETJDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the' breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
ETJDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
ARE, YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught 'us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always beeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. EHO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
gfd ggdgf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to cue
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ggfd ƒgd
Your Picture in
His Watch
should be a smiling picture. It’s your smile
that recalls the charm of your personality.
Your smile cannot be attractive unless your
teeth are sound and white.
Keep your teeth in perfect condition by
visiting your dentist twice a year and by
the regular night and morning use of
Drlyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
xw.i.mv
■■ < >
tsssa
In both the Tooth Powder and Cream you will find in
these two productions of Dr. Lyon’s Laboratory the cleans-
ing and safeguarding qualities that your teeth demand. Both
dissolve quickly in the mouth—leave no sticky masses be-
tween the teeth —prevent formation of tartar —correct ex-
cessive acidity of the mouth—are your best safeguard from
receding gums and loosening teeth.
If a preference exists for the Dental Cream, do not over-
look the value as a cleanser of the Tooth Powder. Best
results accrue from the use of both. The tooth powder is
the super-cleanser. Its frequent use in combination with
the dental cream is recommended.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr# Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
SES
& Beautifying
OSoTuBIfYIMS
p, TH6 BftEATH j
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
f ďfg
Works: Birmingham, Eng!and>
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TRADE MARK
GREAT FIRE SALE.
£lO,OOO worth of Guns and Rifles,
slightly damaged by water, to be offered
to the public at greatly reduced prices.
fg
10 ONLY D.8.8.L. Guns, top lever, choke bore. Usual Price, £5/17/6. SALE
PRTOF 4 ONLY D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUNS, choke boie.
ufual Mce,llo/iO/-. SALE PRICE, £5/10/-. 6 ONLY D.8.8.L
GUNS, fitted with W. W. Greener patent Wedgefast crossbolt, choke top
lever rebounding locks. Usual Price, £6/10/-. SALE I RICE, £3/12/6.
SPELT A L MARLIN REPEATERS to hold 16 cartridges. Cartridges, 1/9 100.
Usuil Price! £3/16/- SALE PRICE, £2/15/-. to kill
at 100 yards. Usuallv 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12/6. 303 MAJICH RIILES.
Usual Price, £3/10/-." SALE PRICE, S7/6. .CHAMPION RIFLES, 22 s=al-,
to take 22 short and 22 long cartridges. Usual Price 20/-. SALE ?RICE, l®/-. GUNS,
Usual Price, £3. SALE PRICE, 25/-. S.B.M.L. GLISS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 10/-.
ORDER EARLY TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT. . ~
Repairs aone on the premises by first=class workmen.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to
SMALL ARMS CO , Importers, 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
MR. GEORGE GOODMAN.
The following testimony is from Mr.
George Goodman, better known as
“Goody” in the profession, and one of
the most widely and professionally
known of a band of brilliant theatrical
managers who form an artistic link
between the theatrical past and
present.
Mr. Goodman has been associated with
the present firm of J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., for a long number of years, ex-
tending back to its inception, when
as “Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove,” it occupied, as it does to-day,
the foremost position in the theatrical
world of Australia, and was respon-
sible for the finest imported produc-
tions of Grand Opera and versatile
drama and comedy.
Mr. Goodman's experience with these
productions and association with the
many “stars” imported under the Wil-
liamson management, is proverbial,
and the following letter will be of
considerable interest to the many
members of the theatrical profession
throughout the Commonwealth, who,
physically exhausted by the exacting
nature of their many roles, will find
in the medicine Mr. Goodman advo-
cates a nerve rejuvenator and health
restorer of remarkable power and cer-
tainty. Mr. Goodman writes from his
Sydney residence thus: —
BEVERLY, BAYSWATER ROAD,
DARLINGHURST, 20/9/’l6.
CLEMENTS TONIC Ltd.
I know the horrors of insomnia or lack of refreshing sleep as well as any
who have suffered acutely from it.
T have endured it often, combined with an irritable, excited and weakened
miiiinn that almost mined my health. lam not wrong in stating tl at
Ods condition at times almost incapacitated me from my managerial duties.
But I experienced a pleasing and grateful change after taking the medicine
I was advised to use-Clements Tonic. After taking it, that change may be
summarised thus:
1. Sw'eet, refreshing sleep EVERT NIGHT.
2. Keal healthy appetite. ~ . T
.. True enjoyment of life through being absolutely well, which I
attribute to no other source than this remarkable medicine to which
I testify. _ „.
I am, Sirs,
(Signed) G. L. GOODMAN.
*ll sell CLEMENTS TONIC within the Commonwealth.
All chem 'X??ery test remedy for “professional” weak nerves.
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Roselle, N.S.W.
It is


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of- urinary trouble.
_ To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish, color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills five such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney tnd Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
/
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Goventpy F!yes*s
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Fiyrr
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
fgfg
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using- sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept * 282 LIVERPOOL,
fgd
Leather Vests
For CAMP or TRENCH USE
Lined with Pure Wool.
Insect Proofed
Price 1 7/6.
j SUEDE VESTS 42/-
Send for descriptive list,
We pack for post if necessary
ROTHWELL’S LIS:
Edward Street, BRISBANE
Tobacco
ďfg
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease. fcVHI
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (XL CO.,
Dept, G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
dg
A Cooling Lotion to prevent
Scorching and Burning of the
Son for Bathers. Motorists.
Tourists, etc.
ALL CHEMISTS
1/6 BOTTLE
OR POST FREE
Bonm« 6TOM4G>
<T« HARRIS ST
SYDNEY
LTD
WIITOBAWE
A few drops applied to tbe
Bands and Face keep away
Mosquitoes. Sandflies. Etc
All Chemists 1/6 Bottle
or Post Free
BONNINGTON & CO.. LTD.
179 Harris Street. SYDNEY
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS, 1/6 a bottle each, or Post Free from
BONNINGTON & CO., LTD., 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
t 1
Baby is a Connoisseur
in his own little way
He likes—and must have —the best. You
cannot be too cautious in selecting his
food. Use a proved food —a food which
has been in the front rank for years.
MeNiift Food
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk, and satisfac-
torily fulfils all the require-
ments of an artificial food.
Set out to feed
baby right. Next
to breast-feed-
ing, the Meilin’s
Feeding Bottle
has most advan-
tages. A trial
convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with useful Handbook for Mothers, “The
Cate of Infants in Australia,” will be sent post Free. Write to-day to
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, LTD., SYDNEY.
ĝf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
IS
v
W
//7
£
m
IA3
v< .«•■•»
j. V /
V I
v\
£s
\
a
rv
ƒg
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible —
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruscben), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Gossiping Flowers.
I know there was talk in the garden last
night,
When the man and the maiden were there,
His hand on her hand, and her rounded
throat white,
In the dusk that was dark as her hair.
Though they said not a word there was
gossip, I vow—
Sweet speech breathing passion and
praise—
’Twixt the rose on the hedge and the rose on
the bough,
And ’twas done in the simplest of ways.
With the spirit of love round about through
the house,
Oh, how could the roses be blind?
And they said quite a lot in the way of the
flowers,
As they nodded and swayed on the wind.
Though the folk that know all, knowing little,
allege
That ’tis idle to make roses speak,
Said the rose on the bough to the rose on the
hedge:
“She has borrowed my bloom for her
cheek!”
Said the rose on the bough, as it nodded and
bent
To the rose on the hedge, hanging there:
“Since budhood I think that it surely was
meant
I should drowse in the dusk of her hair!”
Said the rose on the hedge, as it yielded one
flake,
And watched that flake circle and float:
“I, too. Damask One, have been robbed for
her sake,
For my cream is the cream of her throat.
“And if I were but there as a love-gift, a
pledge,
My hue and its hue would be one,
And for this I would lose all the green of
my hedge
And the lights of the stars and the sun.
“Though the visiting bee and the gold o’
the noon,
And the moths and the zephyrs are much,
It were more for one moment to languish
and swoop
In the silk and the fire of her touch.”
But, alas for the roses, their scent and their
sighs,
And the lights they had known and the
dews!
For the night hid away from the light of her
eyes
All the damask and cream of their hues.
And the lovers went off caring little, I vow,
For the pain of the roses behind —-
For the rose on the hedge and the rose on
the bough.
As they nodded and swayed in the wind.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Per Hospital Ship.
Thin, ashen face above the linen white,
Dark eyes, fast closing on their last drear
sight
Of worlds war-worn—cramp’d ward walls,
swaying yet
As slow’d the ship, sad freighted with regret,
And weariness of shattered men, whose name
Was honor to their land. Helpless he came,
And almost came too late to know the ship
That bore the soul a-tremble on his lin
Was anchored by his own fair harbor side.
But Death, who stepp’d aboard at ebb of tide,
Paused, that a gentle hand might reach him
first,
And near his lips lay violets, that erst
Had drunk the morning dew and on their
breath
They bore a Soldier’s soul past smiling
Death !
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
The Braemar Road.
The road that leads to Braemar winds ever
in and out,
It wanders here and dawdles there, and trips
and turns about
Like a child upon an errand that play has
put to rout.
By the road that leads to Braemar the grey-
beard poplars stand,
And on the sky pale tapestries are broidered
in a band
With the flashing, frosty needle that gleams
in Winter’s hand.
There are haggard apple-orchards on either
side the way
That once flung scented largesse to every
summer’s day,
To mingle with the incense where the hot
pine-needles lay.
And down the road’s long vista, the shadows
spread like wings
As lightly spun and purple as the shade the
evening brings
For circling children’s eyelids round with
mystic, drowsy rings.
The rutty road to Braemar, all weather-worn
and brown,
Goes stumbling on its journey until it nears
the town,
Then with glory of the wattle-bloom its arms
are weighted down!
Oh, the long, long road to anywhere seems
haply without end,
But who shall call it weary with the love of
some good friend
To greet him like the wattle as he turns the
final bend?
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


PERDRIAU
GARDEN
HOSE
m
irrrr.’ii.M.rrg
W**ri
vm
im.
*//*'s
w
•m.
r%
Made in Australia
and
Obtainable from Ail Stores.
Look for the registered brand,
moulded on every coil.
“WATERSHED”
Regd. Brand.
A very high-grade RED RUBBER Hose, light ana
flexible, but strong enough to stand the highest water
pressure. Specially made to resist our climatic con-
ditions.
“PROSPECT”
Regd. Brand.
The best low-priced Black Rubber Hose on the market.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
RELIEF for RUPTU
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
OENYER
PRICES
Single, 17/0.
Double, 22/0.
Why suffer discomfort ? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
fg
ĝf
ƒ
Plume
sJ
Benzine
I l '
She cranks easily, Madam,
with Plume Benzine!
They were inspecting a new car with a
view to purchase. Visions of frantically
cranking the engine amid a gaping crowd
of onlookers arose in the lady’s mind, for
she intended to drive the car occasionally.
But the salesman explained that easy start-
ing depended largely on the motor spirit
used.
Plume Benzine
Easy starting—Sweet running—More miles
“Plume” is famous for easy starting, be-
sides giving more mileage and ensuring a
clean cylinder. The ready responsd of
Plume Motor Spirit at all times wins the
confidence of Lady Motorists.
Correct Lubrication
To keep your car new you must lubricate
correctly. Gargoyle Mobiloils furnish the
correct lubrication. “A grade for each type
of Motor.” Our Recommendation Chart-
mailed free upon request—will show you
the grade to use in your car. For sale at
all dealers and garages.
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
Pb 3
fgfg
«vu/v
/
m
a
i.
war,
1 •
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
robt. nettlefold, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
V 7 ol. 37. Xo. 1918.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1916.
PIIICE 6d.
A NEW SCRAP OF PAPER.
THE KAISER: "I will guarantee you your liberty. I will sign the bond in the blood of Belgium, whose liberty I guaranteed, too.”


SPECIAL NOTICE TO AGENTS AND
SUBSCRIBERS.
In consequence of the scarcity of
printing paper, we regret to advise that
there will be no Special Xmas Number
of The Bulletin this year.
MANAGER,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
November 1, 1916.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
'Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Tiie
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Humber, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, I'erse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Neivspaper Clippings.. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-dratvn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludaate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.: G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Hpnolulu.
Egypt. —lgnore Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Ilouitg, Cairo, Egypt.
Mono Kong.— Bpewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) ; Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Parma, Norfolk' and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.: United Kingdom, All Sea Route. IGoz.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sioz. to 10oz., 31d. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elseivhere, Ijoz., Id., and Id. each
additional 3oz.
'ffuTZßxzlleZztfi.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1916.
THE KIND OF LABOR PARTY
AUSTRALIA WANTS.
The yarn that the Labor party in State and
Federal politics has been turned into a dog-
fight by the conscription issue is too thin.
The party had been in hard training a long
time for this or some other sort of rumpus.
When Chancy of the Overflow comes down to
the city and has seven beei-s before break-
fast and intercepts 17 more before midday, he
usually feels that the time is ripe for another.
Whereupon Chancy gets a trip in the patrol
waggon with half a ton of law sitting on his
chest. Ever afterwards the memoirs of
Chancy are filled with denunciation of that
final beer. It did all the damage. He forgets
the couple of dozen that went before. Con-
scription was the Labor party’s 25th pot, and
everybody connected with the movement,
whether he be a “leader,” one of the mob or
among the crowd of hungry camp followers,
knows that this is so. The reasons
why the Labor party has arrived at the
stage of disruption are multitudinous.
Partly they are the outcome of plain
cussedness, partly the consequences of
trying to work with blunt tools, of mistaking
the shadow for the substance, of chasing the
fatted calf and imagining that the Prodigal
Son has turned up again, of trying to graft
on to a system of representative government
a scheme of regulation bv wirepull which
gave the people an excessive supply of repre-
sentation by marionettes. But the rock-
bottom reason for the Labor party’s steady
demoralisation has been the readiness with
which almost every ideal that gave it birth
was abandoned. It early fell victim to the
fatal delusion that the test of its strength
and usefulness was to be looked for in mere
success at the polls—that Labor policies
were justified when a sufficiently large num-
ber of Labor politicians were returned to
Parliament to form a Ministry. In the per-
fection of plans for seizing upon the appar-
atus of government adherence to principle
was lost sight of, and every time the Labor
politician made friends with the Mammon of
Unrighteousness he brought nearer the day
when Labor would have to go back to its
altar fires or be an adventurer and time-
server. To-day the political parties that are
called Labor are in every State of Australia
living from hand to mouth, mistrusting them-
selves find distrusted by tneir followers.
That a Parliamentary party should be
broken matters nothing. It is usually a good
thing, and when it happens the occurrence is
generally good evidence that the event .was
overdue. Principles are the things that
matter, not the parties or cliques that
manage to get control of the Parliamentary
machine. And The Bulletin suspects that
there are very few men in politics or out who
were not persuaded long ago that the public
affairs of their country would gain much and
lose little when the time arrived for Labor
to cleanse itself and be in its right mind. If
the testimony of Labor organisations, of
Labor politicians, of secret juntas and those
who either obey or defy them, of writers in
the Labor press, and the promoters of fusions
are to be believed, this is the one point upon
which there is unanimity of opinion. That
the accumulation of calamity is being
brought to a head by the turmoil over con-
scription is only an incident. Every word
that is spoken and written on the subject
proves nothing so much as consciousness
within the Labor party that it made a false
start, and has been wandering in the bush.
The conscription issue has merely expedited
what was inevitable. Fisher felt it in his
bones—and bolted. Spence was under no
delusion about what was coming when he
was relieved of the Postmastei'-Generalship.
The performances of Holman and Jack
Scaddan were irreconcilable with anything
except early collapse. All the current
upheavals in the vicinity of various Parlia-
ments are only symptoms of what is going
on among the electors. For politicians to
talk about “saving the party by unity” is
blither. The Labor movement is not going
to be saved or assisted in any way by in-
trigues among politicians whose apostasy
has been flagrant and continuous.
■* * * *
The Labor party was born at an hour
when the appearance of some such force in
politics was imperative. It was a party of
high aims. It stood for the fair deal and
the decent thing. It was wanted then. It
is wanted now. The Old Brigade was swept
away because of its crimes. Its successors
are being driven into new camps because of
their crimes and follies and evasions. This
paper has no doubt that men of the Holman
type were sincere in their professions and
programmes when they entered politics. Nor
has it any doubt that so long as they re-
mained a critical and suggestive force in the
country’s politics they discharged a useful
function in public affairs. But that in
constructive add administrative field they
have been failures they themselves will
hardly deny. They know that it is so—
know, too, that the system they have tried to
work on has been an impossible one, that it
was galloping from bad to worse, and that
between the intentions of the Labor party
and its achievements there is as much differ-
ence as between the waratah and the prickly-
pear. But the demand for the fair deal and
the decent thing is still strong—the oppor-
tunities for Labor to stand as the enemy of
parasitism, of privilege, of muddle and
waste and shirk more numerous than ever.
The work to be done for Australia was at no
time so great as it is now. But it can never
be done by men who shut their eyes and ears
to every other consideration than hanging
on to office —who when they enter Parlia-
ment drop their principles on the doormat
and turn the Legislature into a school of log-
rolling and the national cashbox into an elec-
tioneering institution. Nor will it be done if
the electors among whom Labor looks for
support are content to be fed on doles and
shams while the nation’s future is pawned
and its strength sapped away for the tem-
porary advantage of the unscrupulous and
the unclean. The Bulletin watches the
twistings of the politicians and the writh-
ings of Labor organisations with a satisfac-
tion made mournful by recollecting that it
has hundreds of times warned Labor men
they were sliding down a steep place. It is
no good groaning over the past. It is useless
to moan about the future. But it is just
plain madness to disregard either the
one or the other. The Labor 1 move-
ment has before it the choice of two
roads. One is hard, the other easy. The
first means work and economy ; the protec-
tion of the man who toils; the maintenance
of principle; insistence on social service
being something more than a catch-cry; the
building Up of patriotic citizenship. The
second means shirk and leaning up against a
post and dodging to-morrow; the encourage-
ment of sharks and boodlers; the bartering
of principle. This road leads just where it
has been leading from the start —straight to
ruin. That there must be a Labor party in
some form is certain. If it goes one way it
can do big things for Australia. If it goes
the other way—well, the fair deal and the
decent thing will be a long way off.
THE NARK.
Whatever the final count of the votes may-
reveal, it is plain that, but for N. S. Wales,
the Commonwealth would have carried the
Referendum comfortably. For some reason
the State which is alleged to mother all
the rest is the Nark of the whole continent,
and presents a broad, dull buffer against
which reform and progress perpetually land
with a sickening thud. Multitudes of read-
ers have been amazed at the opinions ex-
pressed of Botany Bay and the surrounding
country by the first Europeans who set eyes
on these shores. They could not see how a
white man could make a decent home in such
a place. Yet the things they advanced against
his possible residence there, such as the pre-
valence of lightning and the forlorn aspect of
the country, did not seem to justify _ their
pessimism. Possibly the real explanation of
their feelings may be found in some occult
prophetic thrill which went through those
fathers of discovery standing face to face
with the future of a continent. It may be
that they foresaw a kaleidoscope of changing
referenda and bursting parties, with the
focus of every disturbance within a radius
of 50 miles of their landing, and believed
that for the good of the race it would be an
excellent thing if the whole neighborhood
could be quietly chloroformed out of exist-
ence to give the rest of Australia a chance.
No one to-day would deny that_N. S. Wales
is quite a possible place for existence, if its
politicians could be gently hanged, its politi-
cal ideas put in a bath of strong antiseptic,
and administrative work wholly remodelled;
but, even then, there remains a deadly sus-
picion that the soil or the air or something
might continue to produce crops of the same
kind. Scientists have argued that peoples
are what they eat, that a limestone country
will, produce .men, apd a granite
country granite people, while a flat, watery
land gets mud into the constitution and
develops fat, unemotional folk with large, flat
feet. On such a theory, the fact that Syd-
ney and the surrounding area, which is to
all intents and purposes N. S. Wales, are
set oru, crumbling sandy rock, may account
for the sand-blight in the popular imagina-
tion and the shifty feeling about the political
boots that is so characteristic of the region.
Whatever the cause, N. S. Wales appears
to exist for the sole purpose qf narking the
Commonwealth. The chieT reason the Com-
monwealth hasn’t the powers to-do a whole
lot of things for the general good 'is that
N. S. Wales turned down previous requests
submitted at successive referenda. The chief
reason Australia hasn’t a capital city and
has to get along as best it can with a muddle
of wasted effort and bad feeling at Canberra
is that N.' S. Wales raised a whole lot of
tin-pot objections, arid wouldn’t be satisfied
with-'any Federal city that was more than a
suburb of Sydney. The chief reason Aus-
tralian industries have never been decently
protected, and that so much good cash went
out of the country to help the Kaiser
buy cannon, is that a mob of im-
porters of shoddy in N. S. Wales got their
grip on the throat of the continent and
twisted it from the decent and patriotic pur-
pose of establishing an effective tariff. All
along the line, and whenever a question of
vital importance has been raised, N. S. Wales
has contrived to get up against the main
stream of national thought; and now, at the
gravest crisis of all, it is N. S. Wales that
has voted emphatically to prolong the war
and lessen the punch which Australia has
it in her . power to give the German.
Westralia, Victoria and Tasmania have
voted strongly for conscription; the Queens-
land vote’ at the finish will be no worse than
a tie; South Australia, with a big portion
of its population of German extraction, leans
to the negative side. N. S. Wales alone of
the States stands out with big figures as the
anti-nationalNark that it has always shown
itself to be.
The break of railway gauges, which is
such a vital matter in connection with Aus-
tralian defence, and which has so steadily
hampered inter-State traffic all the time,
illustrates the attitude of N. S. Wales
towards the rest of the continent. In 1846
Gladstone advised Australia to take to a
gauge of 4ft. Biin. —a gauge which was
afterwards adopted as the standard in
Britain. Six years later N. S. Wales passed
an Act that all gauges in the State should
be sft. 3in. Victoria and South Aus.,
against the British advice, resolved to fol-
low N. S. Wales for the sake of uniformity,
and Victoria started to build railways with
the rails that distance apart. But N. S.
Wales couldn’t help being a Nark. Regard-
less of everything, she went back to a
gauge of 4ft. B£in., and has continued to
build lines of that pattern ever since; and
now, when a proposal is made to standardise
the gauges, N. S. Wales with the old impu-
dence asks the rest of the Commonwealth
to adopt the thing that represents its own
breach of faith. Probably, if it could get
the others to adopt it, it would rush off for
a big loan while the metals were being
shifted and return to sft. 3in. on the plea
that its people had grown too fat to sit in
narrower compartments.
* * * *
Put it on the very lowest ground, is it
going to pay N. S. Wales to be the perpetual
Nark? Does it pay anybody to be? Take
what happened over the Commonwealth Con-
stitution as an instance. N. S. Wales,
through the typical crumbling-sandstone
politician Reid, hung up the whole business.
Then the late George Turner, representing
the other States, “laid” for the Nark.
George Reid demanded the State capital for
N. S. Wales. Turner let him have it—
provided that Sydney was barred for ever
and that Melbourne had it to go on with.
Thus Sydney got the shadow and Melbourne
got the substance; and that is the sort of
thing that is always liable to happen to the
Nark. It is possible to be too greedy; and,
after all, that Sydney is a Nark isn’t due so
much to cussedness as to narrow selfishness.
In the recent Referendum that cry of selfish-
ness was raised: “We have done enough!
llow are we going to manage if we send
away more men?” This paper knows of no
quality that is less likely to make friends.
It knows of none that is so certain to assure
enemies when friends are most needed.
DAMAGED GOODS.
The tremendous dangers of certain forms of
disease, which our showmen, with so much
enthusiasm for the general good, are now
exhibiting in all their horror in the theatres,
have forced the average citizen to grave con-
sideration of the whole moral atmosphere
which surrounds him. That a chance kiss
in the warm dusk when all the airs of
Arcady are abroad should involve misery to
the third generation is enough to discount
Arcady forever; but that a badly-washed
beer glass, a public towel which has not
been boiled, or even the reckless eating of a
restaurant meal with a doubtful fork should
be as vicious as laughing Summer under the
fig-tree are facts which hedge us about with
shuddering suspicion. To imagine, however,
that such dangers are of one sort only and
can be grouped under a single specific dis-
ease name is to get the wrong spotlight on
the national sanitation altogether. Our
damaged goods are of infinite number and
variety, and the ravages of red plagues and
white plagues must not be allowed to obscure
the truth that in the kaleidoscope of destruc-
tion there are a lot of other colors. No
theatre has yet exploited these other con-
tributions to universal ruin, and even the
daily newspapers in their holy desire for the
weal of the right-thinking hardly refer to
them; yet when it comes to selecting the
heavyweight champion among diseases, the
virus which runs through the stage version
of “Damaged Goods” seems a mild and
interesting sort of poison compared with
some of the other stuff.
* * * *
Ever since Federation created a Common-
wealth and left the States to care for their
purely local affairs, the extent to which
politicians of all ranks have been disabled,
maimed, ruined, discredited or killed has
filled the ordinary citizen with wonder. The
political game looks comparatively easy, the
track to reforms seems well paved and free
enough from pitfalls; yet the fact remains
that it is about as dangerous as the front-
line trenches and that the number of casual-
ties is continually increasing. Some of the
people in the political hospital are in
grievous case, with open sores that will, take
a lot of healing; some among the politically
dead show scarcely a scar. Watching the
whole procession of State and Federation
as it limps by, there can be no mistake about
its condition. It is a parade of damaged
goods, of men shaken in reputation,
weakened in will and painfully anxious to
hide their crippled condition under a loud
mouthing of the catchwords of the hour.
Strong men there are in those ranks, but
they are not as strong as they once were;
and it is all too painfully evident that an
evil virus in the blood is working deeper and
deeper into the political system. Whether
it is due to dirty office tables or unwashed
election promises or insanitary selection
methods, there can be no doubt about the
rapid spread of the contagion and the im-
mense injury it works. Wise men shake
their heads over the brilliant aspirant after
Parliamentary honors; and grey mothers,
trembling for the fate of only sons, plead
with them to take up snake-charming or
high-wire acrobatics for a living rather than
run the risk of stumbling into the plague-
stricken ways of politics.
In order to find some cure for this dis-
tressing state of affairs it is necessary that
it should have full publicity. This we have
learned from the high-minded providers of
popular amusement. The politics of. the
country are the measure of its joint achieve-
ment ; and if there is dangerous disease ram-
pant in the field where they operate the
public should know about it in all its grim
detail. Just as the nobility of theatrical
directors has forced them to show the
prostitute soliciting in the streets, in order
that the public may properly repent of its
evil ways at six shillings per stall, so the
political prostitute should be shown as he
goes about his nefarious business disseminat-
ing the germs of a more destroying malady.
The damaged goods should be plainly labelled
and all attempt at concealment regarded as
criminal. Doubtless, even with such publi-
city, the infection will still continue; but
things will at least be known for what they
are and fools will cease to applaud the dis-
ease itself as something worthy of praise
and honor. As for the cure, Australia has
that in her own hands. The political disease
as well as the physical one can be dealt with,
and sooner or later the remedies must be
applied. If they are not, there need be no
difficulty about knowing where we are going.
The men in our politics cannot be uniformly
classed as damaged goods without in some
serious degree injuring the things they
handle; and, as it is Australia their infected
fingers touch, the present state of political
blood-poisoning cannot become chronic with-
out bringing about a time when “Damaged
goods” is -written large across the continent
itself. The damaged persons themselves will
see no hope Of curing the evil, because any
kind of cure involves their own retirement
from business; so the chance of remedy lies
with the awakened public which loathes and
fears the disease, and may insist when it
will on drastic surgical treatment.
* * * *
To be perfectly plain about the matter,,
the disease of party is as completely
destructive of the moral fibre as the other
malady is of the physical, and it is in every
way as infectious. Clean, honest politicians
with the best and most worthy intentions in
the world have set out bent on reform and
willing to make all sacrifices to bring their
ideals into the realm of the practical; but,
without exception, the party disease has got
them. Most of them are mere wrecks of
what they might have been; all of them
have the taint more or less in their blood;
some of the best of them are politically dead
before their time. Count the damaged goods
left along the road since Federation, and
shudder. Sum up the political values of all
the men now in the official limelight and
shudder some more. Mark the trend of the
people in the political swim who have not
yet been tested and the organisations push-
ing them along, and add to the shudder a
healthy curse for the unclean thing which
gets all in its clutches. There is no
sphere in which a patriotic Australian can
render such service to his country and his
fellow citizens as the political sphere; and
in no department of our national life is such
poor service rendered. The only explana-
tion of it all is the party disease. Our best
administrators are in turn lost to us; our
best enthusiasts for the popular cause shrink
and fall away into sheer impotency; our best
war cries become the mere purrings of the
prostitute begging custom. Lamely the
stricken array of damaged goods seeks in
new names and fresh combinations for an
escape from the horror; but there is no
escape to be found that way. The one clean
road of cure is the one which the diseased
politicians will not attempt to take until the
public forces them to do so. Happily, unlike
the red plague, which must be dealt with a
sufferer at a time, the party disease can be
swept away at a single stroke. One measure


embodying the principles of an elective Min-
istry, a Referendum with popular Initiative
and the right of Recall of members of the
Legislature who refuse to do their work,
would wipe party out of existence. There
would be no more contagion, no more dam-
aged goods, and Australia could get out of
hospital with a clean certificate of health
as soon as she pleased, fit and able for the
big work that lies before her.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Politician’s Readiness to Euchre
the People.
Of all the crooked deals the electors of
N. S. Wales have had, this coalition is one
of the worst. There is not a word to be
said for it. Up till the day before yester-
day the Wade following was furiously raging
about the iniquities of Holman and his
crowd—denouncing them as muddlers and
spendthrifts, “lost-money” specialists and all
the rest of it. And the HoLMAN-ites were
daily bursting into verbal eruptions about the
unscrupulous instincts of the WADE-ite and
calling on the heavens to disapprove
“these malignant attacks,” and filling the
air with sound and fury. A few months ago,
when the P.L.L. started to punch Holman
into a corner and give him something nasty
to drink, his most dismal wail was about
the horrors that would overwhelm the com-
munity if the other crowd seized the reins.
And now Holman announces that it is im-
perative for the safety of the nation to give
these dreadful people a chance. Wade’s
contribution to the farce is to remark:
“Hear, hear! We must show a united front
to the enemy and carry on the war to the
full extent of our power”—which is not
merely irrelevant; in the circumstances it
is indecent. Wh.at are the facts? Here are
Holman and some of his fuglemen at logger-
heads with the machine that made them,
and because of that he and Wade put then-
heads together and formulate a scheme for
sharing various jobs and taking away from
the electors their statutory right to elect a
new Parliament. There can be no objec-
tion to Holman joining either Wade or the
Seventh Hay Adventists. That is a matter
for him. But when the two of them conspire
to tamper with the rights of the people to
pass judgment upon the performances and
policies of their representatives, they do
something that is hard to differentiate from
a treasonable usurpation of authority. As
for the gag about, the war, Holman and
Wade have nothing to do with the war,
except as citizens. If the actions of one or
other as a citizen have involved him in diffi-
culties with his fellow-citizens, by what moral
right does he claim that, as a politician, he
is entitled to the protection of Parliament
against the consequences of his civic mis-
fortunes? They both of them challenged the
public verdict on a question of national
policy. Their attitude was the same as that
of this paper. Their attitude to-day is that
of whipped hounds, afraid to stand up to
their masters.
+ :
A Governor Who Spoke Too Soon.
In the 12-hour political crisis in N. §.
Wales last week his Ex. Strickland at
least started off with admirable intentions.
He set out to defend the people’s privileges.
Not being altogether blind, though he is a
Governor, he knew that a plot was hatching
to take one of their most important rights
from them. But he spoke too soon. It was
his duty to wait until either the Housq had
told him that it had iiot the confidence of
his Ministers or the plot had ripened into a
Bill for depriving the people of the right to
elect a Parliament for 12 months. In his
over-eagerness he seems to have put a
strained interpretation upon the amendment
to the no-confidence motion carried last week.
That amendment, moved by Wade, declared
that the time was inopportune to consider
whether the Government had the confidence
of the House or not. His Ex. was not justi-
fied in assuming that that was tantamount
to a declaration of want of confidence. The
House had, indeed, by a smashing majority,
rejected a motion declaring that the Govern-
ment had lost the Assembly’s confidence.
Somebody may want to talk to his Ex. about
Holman while he is busy fabricating a
new piece of mechanism in his workshop;
but it does not follow that his Ex. has
expressed any opinion upon Holman one
way or the other if he says that he is too.
busy or too happily occupied to be worried
about politicians just then. And the case
would be all the stronger if, over his
shoulder, his Ex. barked that at any rate
he refused to say he didn’t have confidence in
Holman. So the 12-hour crisis ended as it
ought to have done—in an explanation, no
doubt, by Wade, who leads the most numerous
party in the House, that he did not mean his
amendment to express no-confidence in his
new friend Holman ; and in his Ex. with-
drawing his refusal to do any more business
with the Holman Ministry—and waiting.
Hughes and the Referendum.
Prime Minister Hughes puts it this way:
The refusal on the part of a free people to make
sacrifices to defend their freedom will be used as a
proof of the unwisdom of submitting great national
issues directly to the people.
And Hughes says that this is “certain.”
Much as The Bulletin regrets that the
vote was “No,” it is equally certain that
Hughes is wrong, if he means that among
the democratic peoples of the world and the
electors of Australia the plebiscite of Octo-
ber 28 will become a historic warning against
direct appeals to the popular vote on ques-
tions of public policy. No doubt there will
always be people ready to use the result of
the vote as an argument against an exten-
sion of the elector’s share in government.
There have been individuals prepared to take
their oath after every general election that
the results proved the folly of extending
the franchise. But that has only shown
that they were feeling sore, and the
franchise hasn’t been withdrawn. So, too,
the mere fact that Hughes was stung by
what he monkeyed with is not going to make
the electors of to-day and to-morrow surren-
der their claim to sting some more. They
are not going to see in a vote which some
of them consider wrong on one thing a
reason for being permanently deprived of the
right to vote in the way they believe to be
wise about something else. Incidentally, it
would do Hughes no harm to knock off
remarking that the Australian people have
refused to make sacrifices to defend their
freedom. It is not true. For though they
might have done more there is no getting
away from this —they have done a lot, and
the thing they declined to do is one that
Hughes himself told them not long ago he
was opposed to their doing.
A Temporarily-forgotten Menace.
When war and drought bumped Australia
about the same time attention was diverted
from the American Beef Trust. Prior to
the drought its operations in the Common-
wealth aroused alarm and suspicion; since
then it has been almost forgotten that the
Trust is still here and steadily throwing its
tentacles around the live-stock business. In
Australia the drought swept away millions
of head of stock, disorganised the industry
for a period and temporarily checked the
plans of this merciless exploiter of pro-
ducer and consumer alike. But in Maori-
land, where there has been no drought and
things have been booming in the dead-meat
line, alarm has been caused at the hold the
Trust is securing, and an endeavor is being
made to rouse the farmers to a sense of
what they are threatened with. M. A.
Eliott, of Palmerston North, is an active
party in the movement in the Dominion, and
is being strongly supported by the Auck-
land Farmers’ Freezing Co. According to
this authority the Trust owns or controls at
least four of the freezing works in the
Dominion, and is endeavoring to secure others,
while it is generally believed that one of the
biggest works recently erected was built with
money supplied by the Trust. It also seems
that the Trust has manipulated the lamb
export trade, despite the British Govern-
ment commandeering all supplies, and that
it exploited the London market most artistic-
ally last season. It is practically controlling
the chilled meat trade in Great Britain; it is
absolute boss in the United States and the
Argentine. It has secured huge tracts of
country in Northern Australia, is alleged to
have purchased some of the old-established
meatworks, and has erected some of the
finest works in the Commonwealth. Before
the drought deranged things its activities
were noticeable throughout Queensland and
N. S. Wales, despite elaborate steps to secure
secrecy. Beyond doubt it is out to control
the world’s meat supply and is likely to do
so unless the countries concerned wake up.
Its rapacious methods in the past are well
known and admitted, but the suicidal notion
prevails in many quarters that those days
are past and that the Trust will be a friend
to the stockowner by giving good prices and
encouraging production. It is the confidence
of the lamb in the tiger. How little it is
warranted is shown in a statement published
recently in a Maoriland paper:—
A farmer from Maoriland bought land in the
State of Connecticut, U.S.A., at what appeared to
be a cheap price according to M.L. standards, with
the intention of raising cattle. He said: “I found
it impossible for me to raise cattle, for the local
markets were closed against me ; the Meat Trust had
full control and they would only buy stock at their
own price. No butcher could buys direct from us,
for if he did he would be denied supplies by the
Trust. A neighbor wanted to sell two bullocks to
a local butcher, but this butcher replied that he
could not buy without permission of the represen-
tatives of the packers. The community was com-
pletely under the thumb of the Meat Trust. The
price paid by the consumers was high, while the
price paid to the producers was low. The farmer
had to sell to the Trust if he sold at all and accept
the price paid to him-; the retailer had to get his
supplies from the Trust, at its price, and under
its conditions regarding the conduct of his business! ”
This is the concern that is now sitting back
waiting for Australia to stock up again and
become worth plucking, and some stock-
owners are simple enough to regard it as a
benevolent friend to be cherished. Even
some who view its advent into this country
with alarm deprecate interference because
it is held that the stockowners—these autho-
rities are not worrying about the mere con-
sumer-—will be protected by the fact that
the railways in this country are State-owned.
It is the rankest fallacy. This being a
meat-exporting country the Trust is not
concerned greatly with the meat until it
reaches the seaboard, and the refrigerating
space is not State-owned. Australia and
Maoriland are facing a common menace
which is always busy, and should not be
overlooked, war or no war. Joint action is
required between the two countries to pro-
tect the Australasian meat export trade
upon which the pastoral and farming indus-
tries now depend largely for their existence.
The best protective steps would be Common-
wealth and Dominion control of an overseas
steamship line and stands in the London
meat market, backed up by co-operative meat
works controlled by stockowners. And such
concerns would require to have a clause
compelling members to supply their stock
to the co-operative works because there is
always a selfish, shortsighted section which
will bite greedily at the inflated price offered
by the Trust with ulterior purpose, and not
give a thought to the squeeze which is com-
ing later when competition is crushed out.
Before it is too late stockowners should
decide whether they are going to stock up
again for, the benefit of a foreign-owned
Beef Trust, or for the benefit of themselves
and Australia.
.—
Stopping Evolution with an Axe.
Evolution gets alonv by a process of selec-
tion, and can’t be hurried up much even with
gunpowder. The expert gardener, using the
natural process to arrive at a new rose or an
improved cauliflower, knows this well enough.
All sorts of trial plants will turn out mere
weeds, but when the desirable thing comes
along it is an easy matter to root up the
weeds and save the precious seedling that is
to nropagate a new race of vegetables. The
eternal thing that is the key of all evolution
is growth. Stop growth and nothing can be
evolved. The same is true in the evolution
of the State. First and before all things a
State is a society of people banded together
to work for the general advantage. If' they
don’t want to work, which means that they
don’t want to eat or be clothed or have
houses or see picture shows, or do any
darned thing, there is no l-eason why there
should be a State; but while there is a State
its central principle is work, exactly as
growth is the central principle of cabbage-
raising and rose-culture. Without work evo-
lution in society can’t achieve anything at
all; with little work evolution can’t achieve
anything much. This is why the strike
as a labor weapon is so futile. Labor,
by the steady process of evolution, can
achieve anything it really wants. It
can’t achieve it all in one bound, because it
doesn’t know exactly what it does want, and
can’t know until the crop of probable wants
reaches something like maturity. But the
selective process can’t fail if the princinle of
work is maintained, and lnbor is absolutely
bound to win. The strike is simply an
attempt to cut off sun and rain from the
whole garden because there is a weed in it
that the gardener doesn’t like.
“Mujik” arrives in Sydney and has a night
out: —
As the pubs sealed up at six there was nothing
for it but to hustle around and look for mental
refreshment somewhere else. Someone suggested the
theatres. Good! Nothing like dramatic art. One
gets away from the atmosphere of booze, sees a
mirror held up to nature, is sharpened by wit, stimu-
lated by refinement and exalted by poetic illusion.
So we fell in somewhere for a start —and sampled
a vaudeville turn that yelled for chloride of lime
and was received with loud giggles. It was as blue
as the empyrean and smelt like a garbage tin. End
of mirror No. 1. Next place: Pictures. Ah! The
mummer muzzled! But it was as hot as devilled
mustard all the same. The theme was eminently
respectable and suitable for pictorial treatment —
merely about the consequences of Sin and getting
rid of them by paying a friendly call to the local
abortionist. Only a depraved taste could see any-
thing in this picture to justify its exhibition, and
only people who are frankly trading upon nastiness
would take the money at the door. Of course the
place was crowded, and outside was suspended a
notice, “House full.’’ There are some few half-civil-
ised states in Yankeeland where films of this kind
are passed for exhibition, and N. S. Wales can be
bracketed with them for distinction in (1) per-
mitting the wretched things to be shown and (2)'
having a public that will take its boots off in the
rush to get in early. Finding no stimulation in this
pruriency, we dashed for the home of the drama
and sat down to hear about —syphilis. “Damaged
Goods” may be worth reading, but to suggest that
it has any merit as a drama is preposterous. The
only “pull” attached to it is that it deals with an
unpleasant subject. That syphilis, or leprosy, or
smallpox is a subject that can be dealt with on
the stage with profit to anyone except the box--
office proprietor is not seriously believed by any'
sober person. If they can be, why not have the*
stage turned into an operating theatre with the*
hero-surgeon arriving in an aeroplane to perform the’
job incidental to ovariotomy or at the critical
moment making a Caesarian section to save the life
of the comedian’s aunt ? Next, as they were opening
a sewer in the next street, we went round and
enjoyed the aroma for half an hour. We got that
free. It was a mistake not to have gone there first.
♦
The allegation is made that in paying
£12,000 for 97 acres of Blue Mountain land,
a wood and iron residence known as Bocling-
ton, and certain equipment and furniture,
the N. S. Wales Division of the Red Cross
Society got rid of £5OOO or £6OOO more than
the property was worth. The statement to
this effect is supported by evidence that has
not been controverted. It runs this way:—
(1) That the buildings on the property stand
valued in the building register of the Shire Council
at £3530.
(2) That six years ago the land was valued by the
Council’s valuator at £450, that against this the-
owner appealed on the ground that the figure was
excessive, and that the valuation was reduced to
£3OO.
(3) That an adjoining 50 acres were purchased at
£5 per acre by the owner of Bodinrton immediately
after he had sold his own property to the Red Cross
at over £3O an acre.
There are further assertions that Bodington
was hawked about Sydney for sale at
£5000; that there is an area of Crown
land close handy which the Red Cross could
have got for nothing by merely opening its
mouth; that a free gift of land was actually
under offer to the society for the purposes
of establishing a home ; that to pay £550 a
room for a sanatorium is on the face of it
open to grave suspicion of being an act of
wild extravagance. Nothing which _ the
society has produced gets past the admitted
facts/ That there was any corruption about
the business need not be suspected for a
moment.' But what appears to be clearly
indicated is that the money was paid away
so carelessly that the responsible persons
are deserving of censure. That they are
honorary officers merely makes the duty of
the critic unpleasant. It does not in any
way relieve them of the Obligation to get
20 shillings’ worth for every pound of the
society’s money wffiich they spend.
When the N. S. Wales Progressive Party
re.alised that the Libs, and Labs, had leaped
out of the pantry window with the bacon, it
pursued the vanishing commodity with the
loud, plaintive howls that were raised by
Robinson Cktjsoe when he was dropped on
a deserted island. Whereupon the hearts of
the escaping raiders were softened, and they
waited until the Progressive Party caught
up in the chase, and let it share the
loot. As the Progressive Party numbered
fully one the adjustment was easy, and
George Beeby went to sleep in the comfort
that is due to a man who makes himself a
party and converts it into a portfolio or
something.
. ♦
“G.D.M.” on the rights of man: —
In these stirring times of war, the most extra-
ordinary phenomenon to a philosopher of the smoking-
room is the dazzling triumph of wowserism and
the splendid victories of the wowser. The wowsers,
numbering one-tenth of the community, march as an
all-conquering army over our most cherished customs,
practices and habits, be those good or vicious, harm-
ful or innocuous. This band of idol-smashers and
habit-breakers has upset the one very simple principle
which ought to govern the dealings of society with
the individual, viz., that the only reason for con-
trolling or compelling any citizen against his will
is to prevent harm to others. That a citizen’s own
good, whether moral or physical, is in danger does
not and should not justify society in interfering
with him. He cannot rightly be compelled to do or
not do things merely because it will make him
better or happier or richer. Herein lies the whole
history of the struggle between liberty and authority
from immemorial time. Yet in Australia to-day
we behold the spectacle of a noisy minority of
women and old people, organised by cranks, local
preachers, temperance fanatics, aspiring politicians
and religious maniacs, in full charge of the machinery
of government, stopping this custom because it does
not harmonise with their notions of morality, abolish-
ing one habit because they have no taste for it,
and passing laws against another human practice
because it offends their own idea of propriety. And
the strange feature of this widespread irruption of
Puritanism, modernised as wowserism, is that the
majority of the thinking, sensible people submit to
it and try to placate it instead of combining to
uproot the noisome pestilence. Why do we not join
together and smite wowserism in its vitals and
utterly destroy it and wipe it out entirely and for
ever ? For this new crusade is not on behalf of religion
or of church or creed. It is a fearsome assault on
joy, on brightness, on pleasure, on amusement. For
illustration, lam a lover of clubs and clubmen. For
some reason entirely without righteousness, I cannot
drink my usual pint of claret with my dinner. Who
forbids Sammy Mauger, John Vale, Rev.
Worrall, Rev. Woo.dfull, the Victorian Allian<>
the W.C.T.U., Y.W.C.A., Y.M.C.A. and all that
class of people whom I don’t know, don’t like and
never meet. Who endowed them with the right to
stop me going to a picture-show on Sunday? Why-
have they stopped me getting supper, and lager
beer with it, at 11 o’clock at night? What entitles
them to insist that my club guest must not stop
in my club, which is an integral part of my daily-
life, after 9.30 p.m. ? Who gave the wowsers the
right to stop me publishing a newspaper on Sunday?
Nobody. They simply took it, as they have taken
numberless rights and privileges from me and
other law-abiding citizens like me who do not harm
their neighbors. Everywhere we are faced with
rules, by-laws, regulations and restrictions designed
for my good by people I regard as a collective pesti-
lential nuisance and as my inferiors as men and
women. An Anti-Wowser Association on anti-killjoy
lines would have my active support.
The Night We Left Old Anzac.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the haze of the full moon the men filed off
from the trenches to the beaches, and passed away
from Gallipoli, from the unhelped attempt which they
had given their bodies and their blood to make. They
had lost no honor. They were not to blame that
they were creeping off in the dark, like thieves in
the night... .They had failed to take Gallipoli....
but they had fought a battle such as has never been
seen upon this earth. What they had done will
become a glory for ever, wherever the deeds of heroic
unhelped men are honored and pitied and understood.
They went up at the call of duty, with a bright
banner of a battle-cry, against an impregnable fort.
Without guns, without munitions, without help, and
without drink, they climbed the scarp, and held it
by their own glorious manhood, quickened by a word
from their chief. Now they were giving back the
scarp, and going to new adventures, wherever the war
might turn. — John Masefield, in “Gallipoli.”
That night we left old Anzac,
The dim moon overhead
Saw us in silence creeping—
And, close behind us keeping,
The rear-guard of our dead!
For we were leaving Anzac:
They could not understand.
In anguish and in wonder
They broke their graves asunder,
And swift the trenches manned.
Our murdered mates of Anzac
Stared at us in surprise;
We saw beside us standing
Men missing since The Landing,
With mateship in their eyes.
We’d thought them dead in Anzac;
We’d left them to their fate.
Our souls were strangely shaken,
Our hands by cold hands taken;
We heard a whispered “Mate!”
That night in awful Anzac
To me my dead mate spoke:
“We took the hill; they shelled it;
But, blimey, ain’t we held it?
Bill, wot’s the blanky joke ?
“We lie in pride at Anzac ;
We stormed with you this shore!
There’s nothing now may hurt us
But this —that you desert us
Who were your mates, and more!’’
I answered him of Anzac :
.. “We’ve done all that we could.
Not for our orders blame us,
Nor with reproaches shame us.”
My old mate understood.
And sobbing down from Anzac
Came men that once were strong.
How stop the tears from falling
When far we heard them calling
Their sorrowful “So-long!”?
As we stole down from Anzac—
Bleak graveyard choked with Youth—
Why we marched safe we wondered.
How could the Turk have blundered?
Too late we learnt the truth.
For our dead mates of Anzac
Had one more duty yet.
They saw the trench deserted,
And danger swift averted :
They lined the parapet!
And, looking back on Anzac,
We calmed our wild alarms.
Our mates were there, and ready;
With trigger fingers steady
Once more they stood to arms!
Who smote the Turks at Anzac?
What made them halt and blench?
Had Allah sent an omen?
Look ! Grey and grinning foemen
Still held the emptied trench !
From those grim ghosts of Anzac
The foe shrank back in dread.
Not Allah gave them daring
To charge against the staring
Cold eyes of men long dead!
And so for aye at Anzac,
W’hile nations rise and fall,
They stand till God relieves them,
And as His guard receives them
At His last trumpet call!
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


THE IDEAL FARMERS' OFFICE.
Farmers U Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
> Limited.
FIRE —MARINE—ACCIDENT —WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION Insurances at Lowest Rates.
By becoming a shareholding policy-holder in this Company farmers participate in the profits their business creates.
A NOTABLE. INSTANCE OF CO-OPERATIVE INSURANCE:
Bundaberg Co-operative Insurance Association, X.td., Queensland: —
Shareholders receive 10 p.c. dividend—lo p.c. bonus on accident premiums—so p.c. bonus on plate-glass insurances.
Though the co. has been in existence only 11 years every £1 of the shareholders’ capital is now represented by £1 10s. of assets.
With the support of Australian farmers the Farmers and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd., can attain similar, benefits for its shareholders
Company has been in existence only one year, but there are already over 1000 shareholding
policy-holders.
The
polic
Paid-up Capital at July 31 was £16,337, of which £14,836 was intact —a guarantee of
cautious and good management. •
“The results of the first year’s trading are gratifying/’ — The Bulletin “Wild Oat” page.
Shareholders received SIX PER CENT. ON THEIR CAPITAL for the first year.
Become a Shareholder —Insure in Year Own Co.—Participate in the Profits
Write for full particulars.
Branches in Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.
Farmers 8 Settlers’ Co-onerat«ve Insurance Co. of Australia itd.
Hcad o{fice: 14 Martin Place. Svdnev.
From somewhere near the inside-
The sudden intrusion of the Governor into the
Holman-Wabe laboratory was something which neither
of the conspirators reckoned on having to encounter
so early in the plot. And, of course, there was much
solemn talk about “constitutional procedure” and
“Ministers refusing to resign” and so on —all of
which was mere rubbish. Nobody was concerned
about the Constitution. Sir Gerald Strickland has
very pronounced ideas about the project for
depriving the people of the franchise, and
when he found the Assembly declining to
express confidence in Ministers, he reckoned it was up
to him to expedite the negotiations for giving the
Crown a Ministry on whose advice it would be proper
for him to act. He had not forgotten that a few
months ago his Ministry resigned for four hours and
forgot to mention it to him until it had rushed back
to its job. And Strickland did expedite things;
but the alleged crisis was smoothed over not by
Holman but by Wade. The sombre Gregory took
Holman by the arm and led him before his Ex. and
explained that he (Wade) was behind the Ministry
and that the Assembly would support the Ministry
which was being hatched. And Strickland, by this
time conscious that he had made a mistake in con-
veying his displeasure to the newspapers (a step
which the bigwigs in London would view with great
disfavor), and having an assurance from the leader
of the principal group in the House that all was
well, smiled on Holman again. Then Wade and
Holman salaamed to a relieved and chastened
Cocked Hat, returned to town and . proceeded
to give further consideration to the question
of billets, while the anxious Libs., whose tongues
have been hanging out, sang hymns of hope,
and disgruntled Labs, hied forth to address the demo-
cracy in the Domain. Parliament’s life will be
prolonged all right, because the people are without
an axe, there are many juicy jobs to be handed
round, and the Crown cannot object to a democratic
institution showing its rottenness if it wants to.
Are Hughes and Pearce engaged in a
bungling competition? First of all, they
heavily handicapped the case submitted to
the jury on October 2S by a general call-
up under the Defence Act. Having seri-
ously damaged the compulsion cause by this
tactical error, they are proceeding now to
make enemies for our home defence system.
Incidentally they are using up a million of
money. For what purpose? The men were
called up to be turned into soldiers in the
event of the Government being granted cer-
tain powers. Those powers have been re-
fused, and the scheme has been abandoned.
Yet the Exemption Tribunals are sitting,
and men are being dragged from their har-
vesting to attend them. The Supreme Courts,
moreover, are hearing appeals, and medical
men are pawing recruits over. Those
who are passed are dragged away
from work to be turned into what
Pearce calls “something like soldiers.”
Everyone else knows that they are being
merely converted into individuals with a
grievance and a grudge against our home-
defence system. The whole business is gro-
tesque, and a revelation of official stupidity
which would be almost beyond belief if such
things had not become familiar during the
past two years of hideous waste.
♦
Australia is at war. So, too, is France.
A Frenchman who was not working for
France to-day would consider himself dis-
graced. A coal-miner who worked to-day for
Australia would consider himself an outcast.
This paper takes the French view, and de-
clares that the stoppage of Australia’s coal
supplies is a disgrace which must be shared,
not only by owners and miners, but by the
Federal and State Governments for their
past betrayal of the arbitration system. It
is a disgrace to Australia as a nation and
a reflection upon her institutions. The
public is getting a long way less than a
fair deal. People who are no parties to
this dispute are being dragged into it and
made to suffer loss and embarrassment. And,
apparently, worse still is to follow. Tnis
page goes to press while a circumstantial
story is in circulation about an intention to
declare coal black —to tie up Australian
industry, that is, from end to end. If put
into effect this will mean that Australian
Labor Unions have gone back to where they
started from and decided to rely upon the
power of the worker to take the community
by the throat and choke out of it whatever
can be obtained. It is possible that the imme-
diate object will be achieved by this means,
but it is going to have very serious after-
results for Labor both in politics and out of
it.
According to G. W. Russell, a member of
the Maoriland Ministry, the characteristics
of the Australian people are due to “the
convict taint.” We might shrug our shoul-
ders at this if it came from Berlin. In the
mouth of an office-hunting politician playing
to the gallery it would perhaps, in normal
times, be entitled merely to contempt. But
as Australian and Maoriland soldiers have
fought and died together on Gallipoli, and
are now brigaded alongside each other in
France, The Bulletin puts it to Jimmy
Allen, the Acting Premier of Maoriland,
whether it is not up to him, as a decent man,
to disown the author of this grossly ignorant
and abominably mischievous commentary
upon the citizens of Australia. If Allen
shirks this obvious duty Australia’s only
conclusion can be that the Government of
Maoriland associates itself with the pot-
house gibes at the Commonwealth’s army
which decorate the German newspapers.
*
According to Garvin, of the London
Observer, who has some very lucid moments,
the Germans cannot be throttled before 1918.
It looks a fairly conservative estimate,
though six months ago its author would have
been prosecuted for doing something “to the
prejud.ee of recruiting” if he had mentioned
it in Australia. He attributes the delay in
the proceedings to muddle in the Balkans.
He may be right, but it is probable that the
main reason for the German not throwing
up the sponge is that he is working as though
he meant business. Meanwhile the inflexi-
ble determination of Australia to get even
with the enemy at the finish is expressed by
a resolute intention to: —
(1) Reinforce the Australian army any old way.
(2) Tie up the Australian transports.
(3) Interfere with the production of tucker.
.(4) Borrow the last shilling to make a super-
fluous monkey-cage with.
All of which shows that when Germany
learns the worst she will be ready to capitu-
late on any terms and admit that she had
misjudged the splendid devotion of Australia
to the cause of social organisation and
national freedom.
The health of N. S. Wales Liberal leader
Wade has been so gravely undermined by the
labor of undergrounu-engineering with Hol-
man that he felt obliged to mention it lately
every time he met a reporter. Wade’s trouble
is of an obscure character which it is thought
by his friends may poss.bly yield under the
influence of a change of climate. The Agency-
General being vacant, Wade’s indisposition
will—unless something goes wrong at the
last moment—be cured bv giving him that
job. This (quite incidentally, of course)
will get rid of what might have proved a
discomfort to the new political crew—the
presence of two skippers, who don’t love one
another much, on the bridge at the same
time.
When politicians fall out you get the
strength of things. The split between Hol-
man and some of his old followers has let
light into the Norton Griffiths infamy. The
Opposition, almost without exception, de-
nounced and voted against the agreement;
and now McGirr, of the Labor party, using
the most violent language about the disgrace-
ful thing, declares that Holman simply flogged
it through the Caucus, and threatened any
Labor member w T ho opposed it with political
extinction. So we have another beautiful
result of machine government: this most
disgraceful agreement foisted for years upon
the people by a handful of men in one party.
This handful carried the party; the party
carried the House. So less than 20
men, who for one reason or another were in
favor of it, were able to carry it in the face
of 50 who were opposed to it. And that is
democratic rule and government by the
majority!
Felt the pulse of his last patient, Dr.
W. G. Maddox, aged 73. Born in Launces-
ton (Tas.), son of a former Dr. Maddox,
for 50 years he has helped the young Laun-
cestonians into the world, and kept the old
ones out of the other as long as possible. He
died at Plymouth (Eng!) while on a visit
to a daughter, wife of Commander Luxmore,
R.N. Just an old-fashioned famly doctor,
fond of fishing and cricket, and a good
friend to all who could not pay big bills.
“Gallery Hand’s” send-off: —-
There are a mort of men in Maoriland’s no-license
crowd that I would sooner have seen dead than Frank
Whitmore Isitt, who passed in his marble at Dunedin
this week. For many years he was one of the big
wheels of the M.L. water-cart, and he ran without the
squeal that characterised the rest of the machinery.
Evidence of this was to be obtained from the fact
that in the early 1900’s there was always a welcome
for him in the Parliament Press Gallery from men
who had little time for narrow-mindedness. I re-
member the first occasion Isitt was on the roster
to buy afternoon tea—a privilege permitted few out-
siders. In deference to his principles, all hands
ordered tea—real tea —but the smiling old tactician
shook his head. “No, no, gentlemen,” he said, “make
it the usual, please.” Frank Isitt arrived in M.L.
from England in 1870, and was in active service on
behalf of John Wesley’s policy for a pile of years ;
but he was best known as vice-president of the anti-
grog Alliance, and as its general secretary, a job
from which he retired a few years ago. He was 70
when he went to where the worm (of the still)
corruptcth not.
The Westralian Liberal Government is
jettisoning its predecessor’s State enterprises
one by one. The sawmills,. which were para-
lysed by the war; the implement works,
which furnished farming tools at below cost
and so closed up competing firms; the
brickworks, which were closed down in de-
spair by the Scaddan Ministry six months
ago—all are now on the market, and nego-
tiations are in progress for disposing of the
State ferries. The meat stalls will probably
be the next to go.
SOW DRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Sf™?"’' 'V.'.'.V.'. “SSnuJ'
Crii lrion “Tom Moore
.7.7.*.' Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Tueltre* •.7.7.*.: Moving futures
Garden .7.7.7.7. *.7.7.7.7.... The Dandies
Ml’l IUU IiNK SHOWS FOR CmilSC WEEK -
Her Majesty's • • Ihe Cmema St.
Royai , “The Sign of the Ci qss
Emu s 7.7.7.7.7.7........ “While the Billy BoiL”
Sf 8 ’ 8 77.7.7.7 Mciiitosh's" Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia.* St. Hilda
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving I ictuies
Another musical ghost is just finishing a
brief stroll at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. 1 his
time it is “The Girl in the Train, with
dainty Dorothy Brunton as tne pretty net*
ress who borrows the good young husband s
sleeping berth, and Marie Eaton as the
jealous wife who makes all the trouble. Ine
part gives this ragtime specialist a chance to
sit still and show that she can act, and she
does it quite impressively. The musical
numbers are not numerous enougn to inter-
fere seriously with the story: there aie
only about 14 noisy interruptions and one
solo dance —with a 20-minute drought be-
tween the two acts. Alfred Frith, whose
grin is his fortune, gets 90 per cent, out
of the part of Cornelius Scrop, the sleeping-
car conductor. Fred Maguire has a life-
and-death struggle with his first-act music
and semaphores his emotion. C. H. \\ ork-
man (President Van Eyck) makes up to
look like Parson Frank Harvey and does
a wild burlesque of “Romance” with Field
Fisher (Lucas Van Tromp), hurriedly
wigged and gowned as a scarecrow Cavallini
with singlet and braces showing above his
low-cut gown. Connie Ediss is amusing ■in
the witness-box as 'a bothered Dutch ser-
vant, Madge Elliott soars gracefully through
a dance, and a final word of praise is due
to the whimsical court crier. “So Long,
Letty,” is to start a fortnight’s revival on
Saturday-—if the coal strike doesn’t condemn
the city to darkness.
In the revival of “The Parish Priest”
on Saturday night Allen Doone gave one
of his best pieces of character work, and
the packed audience at Sydney Palace
let him know it thought so, too. The
play is the story of true love saved
from taking the wrong turning by the
sympathy and understanding of Father Allen
Doone. Edna Iveeley made a convincing
little heroine in spite of the flapper-like hair
arrangement; and if she could persuade
Uncle not to give the show away —as to
her age being the same as that of her bril-
liant doctor-lover —all would be well. Tom
Buckley’s Michael Sullivan was as excellent
as Doone’s Father Whalen; and Ethel
Grist shouted the lines of Kathleen Corrigan
while Ethel Bashford did the same for Agnes
“THE GIRL IN THE TRAIN ,” AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Court Usher Wren tries to silence the
talkative witness Connie Ediss.
Cassidy. The conspiracy was further aided
and abetted by Clive Farnham, J. Vincent
White, Onslow Edgeworth and Frank
Cullenane.
“Damaged Goods” will be removed from
Sydney Criterion to-morrow night, though a
short season will follow at the Royal. On
Saturday, the Criterion will see the new
foreign actress, Florence Rockwell, in
another U.S. play, “Common Clay.”
The Follies of Pleasure still hang out
the sign of the Gross at Sydney Opera
House. The audience is pleased with the
well-fed performers, the management with
the audience, and the well-fed performers
with their reception; so everybody’s happy.
Warning to Sydney theatre-goers: Brans-
combe’s Red Dandies, at the Garden, just
over the hump of the William-street hill,
is a clean show.
5,5 5 a %
The Sydney Tivoli advertisements are full
of thundery threats and mutterings about
Saturday, November 25, on which date the
“THE PARISH PRIEST ,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
The Father (Allen Doone) and Michael
(Tom Buckley).
new Follies’ entertainment, “The Passing
Show,” will have its first audience at the
matinee. Meanwhile the old team is putting
in a bright enough two hours with 26 items.
* * *
Sydney screenings this week: —
Ltric : The all-Australian film —“The Life Story
of Adam Lindsay Gordon.”
Hoyt’s : Farnum in “Fighting Blood,” a Wm. Fox
punching-parson drama ; and the usual humor and news
features. Hoyt’s, by the way, are pushing out into
the suburbs, and have just taken over the Mosmdn
Kinema, the best-appointed of all out-of-town theatres.
Lyceum : Triangle comedian Douglas Fairbanks in
“Manhattan Madness,” a whirl amongst the gaieties of
Noo Yark; and the dramatisation of Larry Evans’s
novel, “Then I’ll Come Back to You.”
* 5k * >;=
One more revival of “Silver King’’
seemed appropriate to Cup Night at Mel-
bourne Royal, because the trouble begins
with the downfall of a reckless punter who
drowns his losses iu derrink. The topical
moral lesson drew a full house, and the
performance pleased the crowd. _ All the
same, the cast of the present revival, when
averaged, falls considerably below par. In
the first place, Julius Knight is anything
but a convincing Wilfred Denver, drunk or
sober. His robust, romantic style is out of
sympathy with the character of the intem-
perate husband and father who has “done
it in” on the gees and flies for consolation to
the bottle. It wouldn’t matter so much that
he dresses the part in up-to-date garments
when he returns from the Derby, although
the Wheatsheaf suburban pub, with skittle-
alley attached, was already an old-fashioned
notion when the play was written, and the
tall hat of Daniel Jaikes belongs to a bygone
age. The anachronism would pass if Julius
were the right type of supposititious punter
for the job. However, he steadily improves. He
gets nearer to the truth after he has sobered-
up at the sight of Geoffrey Ware’s corpse,
and as the penitent millionaire back from
America he is quite satisfactory. Miss
Lizette Parkes is mostly unequal to the
trials and tribulations of Mrs. Denver. Her
diction is unsuitably affected, and in the
cottage scene she hardly suggests the suffer-
ing mother who is trying to look pleasant in
the last round of a long contest with bitter
poverty. Athohvood, on the other hand, is
an admirable Jaikes in nearly all respects,
neither too senile nor too servile in his
conception of the angelic old retainer of
the busted house of Denver. Boyd Irwin is
a hard, unpleasant Spider, who couldn’t pos-
sibly have got into a social position to dis-
cover the whereabouts of Lady Blanche
Winter’s diamonds. The largest of the
other good acting characters in “Silver
King” are played effectively or passably by
Leigh, Lloyd. Huntley, Hughes and Eileen
Sparks; and Sweeney makes a worthy attempt
to naturalise the contemptible spitefulness
of G. Ware. The staging is in accordance
with tradition save for one glaring absurd-
ity. Old Jaikes and pretty little Cissie
Denver are each required to speak of “the
only chair” in the cottage where Mrs.
Denver is doing her starving. They empha-
sise the singularity of the chair in the fore-
ground. They feature the piece of furniture.
But on Saturday there was a second chair
obtruding itself on public notice, and each
time the other one was said to be lonely ybu
could hear the audience smile. Perhaps the
stage manager had put the other chair in
for comic relief.


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An abaolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
To Assist Inventors.
Patents Investigation Board
Established by the Government of New South Wales.
PROSPECTUS on application to the Sec-
retary, Patents Investigation Board. 16
Carrington St., Sydney. Telephone 1989 City.
TkeCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
„ Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in Oct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
M-O-T-O-R
Accessories.
MOTORISTS, we stock the RIGHT kind of Fit-
tings for you, Fittings such as the Stewart
products—real, serviceable goods that mean
security, and more pleasure in your motoring.
And they’re no more expensive than the inferior
kind. We’ve seen to that. The Square Deal we’ll
give, when you call or write for your needs will
convince you of this.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334*336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The “No-Veste” (Regd.) Greytone Cotton Crash Washing
Suit is an excellent production for Summer wear. It is
remarkably strong, very light in weight and, being dark
in tone, will not readily soil. Made in S.B. Sac Style,
coat having 3 patch pockets, seam only in back. No
lining. Trousers have side, hip and fob pockets and
permanent turn-up.
The pattern of the material is a tiny pinhead design,
giving a pleasing Grey tone.
READY TO WEAR,
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
FEAFES & CO., LTD.,
Men's
Outfitters,
300 <BL 311 George Street, Sydney.
rX
-ft:
Bright drab patches of naturalism in
•‘While the Billy Boils” will make that
good-tempered Australian fellowdrama fairly
popular at Melbourne King’s. Its sins of
construction are atoned for by its temper,
which is in happy contrast to the irascibility
and peevishness that prevail in the broad
comedy scenes of “Our Selection.” There’s
a lot of human kindness in some of the
episodes that happen outside Mrs. Stiltners
pub. The birth of Joe Wilson’s first-born,
while Joseph waits around and upbraids
himself, is one of the most realistic domestic
events that ever transpired off-stage. And the
main supports of Mrs. Stiffner’s business in
the township of Bedclay are convincing. They
carry conviction with them. After they
have grouped themselves in attitudes of
casual attention to the Salv. Array Band
one feels further persuaded that Australian
drama thus far is very much a matter of
People and very little a matter of Plot.
“The Taming of the Shrew” at Melbourne
Princess’s was doubtless doomed to com-
parative neglect by the fact that Oscar Asche
played it for all it was worth. and knocked
the stuffing of public interest out of it.
Moreover, he played it with the Induction,
which Allan Wilkie omits, lienee the present
revival is discussed as a moderate-sized
goose, somewhat overdone and minus the
apple sauce. But “Hamlet” will be the
immortal bill on Saturday.
At Melbourne Majesty’s they are continu-
ing “The Cinema Star” for yet another week.
This journal has one thing more to say. It
is concerning Clutterbuck’s alleged address
to a meeting at the Albert Hall before the
curtain rises. Clutterbuek complains that
the meeting was composed of kiddies who
laughed joyously when he addressed them as
Fathers and Mothers of England. Subse-
quently it is stated that, he fought like a
lion with an infuriated mob of picture-show
barrackers at the same meeting, and was
undismayed when Minnie Love threw an
onion at him. These conflicting references
to Clutterbuck’s meeting leave a critic per-
plexed ; but, anyhow, he reckons that an
onion flung by Miss Love would come with
all the fragrance of a rose now that she
has straightened her shoulders.
s’s S'fi ;Ji *
Expectation of a violent change in Mel-
bourne Tivoli programme must remain un-
realised for a few more nights. The Togos,
Cardo and Noll, Mennetti and Sidelli, and
other individual acts previously mentioned in
this journal are still enjoying the freedom
of the Tivoli stage; but the Strollers are
leisurely papking up, and may put out the
camp-fire and shift their sylvan scenery at
any moment. On Saturday the Strollers’
gaiety was exposed in a fresh bill, whereof
one of the features was a pathetic inquiry
from Sidney James’s partner, Billy, concern-
ing the whereabouts of a moke called
Quinologist.
Wirths’ Circps is about to finish its month
in Melbourne. Last Saturday was a great
night in the arena, owing to the recent
occurrence of Melbourne Cup. The winning
jockey-lad faced the music whilst George
Wirth gave him a gold-mounted whip. The
presentation took place with the assistance
of Sasanof Stead and Melba’s brother
Charlie, both of whom offered a few remarks
on the altar of publicity.
"THE TAMING OF THE SHREW,” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
The swank butler
bloke.
Walter Hunt, the
lover in disguise.
The rain is still calling frequently on the
St. Kilda (Vic.) Dandies without damping
the enthusiasm of the little party. Joseph
Brennan continues to be responsible for the
brightest jokes, and receives forcible assist-
ance from Harry de Robeck, who in moments
of tense frivolity finds the aspirate a great
encumbrance. Also, there is a presentable
new comedian, John Campbell, who affects a
monocle like a bad habit, and sounds as if he
could recite Burns in the original. Among
the others, baritone Lawrence is now voicing
the martial sentiments oi' a local composer,
while the flapperish Pearlie McKenzie is
making amorous appeals to blokes in the
audience without being specially bewitching
in her impertinence. The allurement of the
other sex is a fine art in which Pearlie is not
yet knowing enough to take full honors.
Adorers of Theda Bara can ask no more of
their goddess than an hour of her in the
film representation of “East Lynne” at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, on Saturday. Theda is
a success as Lady Isabel in the first few
chapters, wherein she manages to suppress
her natural tendency to suggest the serpent.
After she bolts with Francis Levison, how-
ever, the snake asserts itself, and she looks
“JOYLAND ,” AT SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Con Moroni and Lew Dunbar at a game of
poker.
like the usual siren of shady resorts and
supper-crushes. Hoyt’s other long pictures,
“The Weakness of Strength” and “By Whose
Hand,” pale into unimportance beside this
latest impression of Mrs. Carlyle, and even
the first sensational spasm of a new serial,
“The Mysteries of Myra,” is not strong
enough to efface the memory of Theda’s
murky glamor and midnight smile.
With the Boyal still on films, and the
King’s closed, the Tivoli has a monopoly of
audible drama in Adelaide. Maggie Moore
continues to reinforce the Anderson co.,
and is open to play just anything, from a
street waif to the mother of a family; and
she is welcome in all she does. The athletic
Chinese have left the Majestic, but are
replaced by a mysterious Wong Toy Sun,
with an outfit of magic. Mplinari sings
finely at this house, and the Panlastos are
funny. It is difficult to pay more than
half a crown at any Adelaide house just
now—barring odd coppers (2Jd. in some
instances), which have to be fished out for
the new amusement tax. John Dempster’s
big Women’s Choir concert lias been fol-
lowed by Winsloe Hall’s fine Adelaide
Orchestra performance. The weather for
outdoor shows is rotten.
Teacher of one State school for 40 years
—that was the record of A. C. Wellard, who
died the other .day. at Middle Brighton
(Vic.). He put in his- working life looking
after Dunorlan (Tas.) school, kept quite
sane, and lived for 10 years after he retired.
“Block 10” : Isn’t this like these patriot-
politicians? The pencil with which I
initialled 508 ballot papers on Referendum
Day, supplied by Kink O’Malley’s depart-
ment, was made, in one of the countries with
which we are at war.
From “Hurried Remarks by Great Men” :
To be patted on the back by Germany is to feel the
hand of a leper upon one’s face.
Author W. M. Hughes. Illustrator yet to
be found.
Before the Westralian Assembly reassem-
bled after the Referendum poll, men in the
street were predicting that Scaddan would
not get the Opposition leadership. Acting-
leader W. D. Johnson and ex-Mines Minis-
ter Collier were alleged to be after the job.
As the leader of the Other Side in West-
ralia gets £5OO a year for pointing out where
the Government has made a hash of things
it was not altogether improbable that Scad-
dan would get a run for the money; but
whatever happened in Caucus, tolerably-
Happy Jack was announced on the meeting
of the House as the unanimous choice of the
party. The late Labor Premier disappointed
his admirers by his feeble twisting in the
Referendum campaign, presenting himself
as a sort of pro-and con scriptionist; never-
theless he is undoubtedly the strongest
debater of his crowd.
AT POVERTY POINT.
J. J. Ennis, actor, has just died in Mel-
bourne Hospital. For many years he was
a member of the Taylor-Carrington Dramatic
Co., and travelled every part of Australia.
For some time he stage-managed for Maggie
Moore, and at one period was a member of
William Anderson’s team. Later, he played
character and old men’s parts with George
Marlow. Plow old he was may be guessed
from the fact that he got his theatrical tuition
from Hoskins.
Sprightly old Jimmy Dyer (he married
fouise £. Smith) has" been for a moment
in the spotlight. When .*ielba recentlv
handed over her £l5O scholarship to Doris
Leech, and the Albert-street Corn's own
second prize went to Natalie Muir from
Nattialia, a young thing named Ruby Croft
received a pat on the head from the diva —
V ith « acoura .B im -. hit no good from the
cash-down viewpoint. Alert James, with
'‘'Yi!it| S CC oppor-
. • , hv to do >,00(1 and seized it. Ruby, too,
IS to nave tier scholarship, and James’s name
IS at the end of the cheque.
stated? 1 Sf r cxprSsed y hhSf'"is “delighted
with the cleverness shown by the adaptor of
his stories for stage purposes. Well, Henry
is an amiable poet, and wonderfully easily
pleased. He reminds me of the man who,
having been knocked off St. Kilda pier with
a blow in the face from a stale skate, ex-
pressed his appreciation of the action of liis
assailant in helping him to a pleasant bath.
Moreover, much of the so-called criticism of
“While the Billy Boils” is written in the
same generous spirit. But the point at which
forbearance ceases to be a virtue is passed
a mile, and I assert that the treatment
meted out to Lawson’s characters is of the
n , a^.u^ a criminal libel, and should call
shrieks of protest from every man who has
a ha porth of regard for Henry’s people.
lan Maclaren s Bob Brothers may pass, but
the rest, without exception, are gross carica-
tures of bush-bred men and women. I
am moved to write with some heat because I
clearly see that unless there is a marked
improvement in the dramatic handling of our
literary material the mucli-longed-for Aus-
tralian play is going to effect nothing beyond
the utter degradation of Australian fiction.
rr ,? . Aril .
O.K. : Old Melbourne memories of the
Williamson. Garner and Musgrove days are
revived by a Town Hall concert appearance
of Ida Osborne. She has been kindly-enough
treated by woman’s bitterest foe. The voice
is “on the go” as regards quality and range,
hut the enunciation is clear and incisive as
ever. Ida Osborne belongs to the old school
of Australian stage warblers who left none
of their words to the imagination.. When she
utters a ballad j t ou Know what it is all about,
The intonation waits unon the diction,
whereas a singer of the Ethel Cadman type
seems to trill her lay with her mind fixed on
the musical effect. Ida Osborne’s tone is
nasal as compared with, say, Florence
Young’s direct sinking, but the phrasing is
enually honest in both cases. Artists of their
style mark the difference between singing and
“vocalism ol ”
umrtT’T TV 1 . C o » ir n n i
T. 0.1. : Hied, at So, Agnes Kelly Robert-
son, widow of Dion Boucicault. This great
actress was born in Edinburgh on Christmas
Hay, 1833, a daughter of Thomas Robert-
son, art publisher. She first appeared as a
child singer at concerts in Aberdeen..Atlo
she made her debut in that town in ‘ Spoiled
Child.” Next she went to Manchester, where
she divided child-parts with Marie V> iit°n
(Lady Bancroft now), and also played with
Fanny Kemble and W. C. Macready. At
Hu . u she, played with the* Tewyfamihf, Ivate
and she being the Princes in Licnaiu in-
Next she j oi £ od the Keans and the Keeleys,
, , v n , T . nm-movoruio of the
mada har st appearance at the
Princess s. At the age ot It she was engageu
Edward Glover at Glasgow. She met
Bion Boucicault ill 1850, while sin vas vith
the; Keans, and soon afterwards married him.
It was to see Boucicault and Agnes Robert
son nluy m The 5 umpire that Queen V IC-
toria went three times in a fortnight .and
gave a commission to Corbould to paint the
picture of the pair athey appeared in the
piece. Later, she joined i<u amt , s '
and Charles Mathews at the Lyceum. In
1853 she went to the United States; her
engagements there covered a period ot seven
years. With her husband she returned to
England in 1809, and for several yeais
appeared in Ills most popular play's. Alter a
long absence from the stage she re-appeared
at tile Opera Comique in 1889 for the
benefit of J. A. Cave. Pier last important
appearance was as Mrs. Cregan in “The Col-
leen Bawn” (1896), since when she has
lived in retirement. Dion (Dot), Nina and
Aubrey are her children ; all have had good
stage careers. In 1885 the Dions, father and
son, came to Australia; at the end of the
tour “Dot” decided to remain, and entered
into partnership with Robert, Brough. This
association lasted 10 years.
Agnes Robertson (Mrs. Boucicault), the
very old actress whose death was reported
by cab l e last week, was very nearly the wife
G f ollr fi r gt G.-G. Hopetoun’s father. Agnes
was a ward of the Keans, and they favored
the suit which young Hopetoun was pressing,
But the « irl had her own way: ? he was in
love with the young actor Boucicault, and
Moped to America with him. Perhaps she
was sorry afterwards; tor * Boucy behaved
badly -swore indeed that their marriage
wasn’t a marriage at all.
Annette Kellerman’s mermaid picture-
drama was so successful that another has
been ordered and supplied. It is as much
]ike the other as could b , e "»roa**l, tha
heroine starting as sea-king s daughter and
K ° ing ashore to wed the land-kings son.
Annette does a 30ft. dive from a tower into
the sea; and not for practice, this time but
to escape from prison. A Daughter of the
Gods” is the title of the romance,
“Snell”: The Argus concluded its notice
of “Damaged Goods” as presented at Sydney
. _
The } mT)ress i on left by Saturday’s performance is
that it will lower the tone of general conversation by
cultivating a frequent directness of speech on sexual
subjects in place of the rarest allusions in round-
Under the system that Tested sodety to
larest allusions in roundabout tei i,
humanity was poisoned with syphilis blood
and hone. The idea of a iace whose lac o ,
deeply seared with the red bra ? ds
?. ecr . et disease satisfy ing itself with rarest
fusions in roundabout terms is as franti-
caily absurd as the situation of a man sitting
m h° llin S lead and declining from motives of
delicacy to refer to the mattei.
It’s a cold wind that doesn’t warm some-
body’s toes. The postponement of the big
Cup race gave the cue to showmen to hastily
put up matinees, and visitors were given the
choice of Shakspeare, Napoleon, circus ele-
phants and cinemas. The crowds that rolled
up delighted the managers’ hearts. They felt
in {e Flemington bookies for the time being.
..... .. „ , , -r. , „ rnn™™,,
Melb : Melbourne s new I alace Tliea-ue,
late National Amphttheatrc, superb, and
™ ay • )Ustl y y a delation tnat £-0,000 has
been spent on it There is an allegation of
another sort, that Biennan, bundei ot the
National, lost £30,000 over the oiiginal. The
Palace aas a picture drop-curtain, not wi
a roller, but sliding up and down. It is a
facsimile of the one painted by George
Gordon for the opening of the Princess’s
so years ago. Time the old-style “drop”
went. Bellew was nearly slain by one. And
piancon. the baritone, at the London Opera.
was whisked half-way up to the flies. Of
Australian picture drops I think I liked best
one that Dorothy Brunton’s dad painted
f or the Royal—“ Stratford on Avon,” a fine
medallion picture, with ornamental border,
it was used later at the King’s, for lantern
advertisements, with the title cut out.
„,, m , . , . .
boor old Ellen Terry. A faint echo of
Uie tour that tailed and never should have
been attempted was transmitted during the
)L e . ek b y cable. *J oe Blascheck, who
directed the trembling venture, sued an
English unaerwriter called Bussell for £l3ll
U/ r fc he 13 times Ellen was unable to appear.
Uhe Judge decided the preliminary point in
Uvor of defendant with costs, holding that
policy was an indemnity policy, and that
j osep h must prove damage. He could have
proved rashness without any trouble.
(Continued on Page 42.)
MAUD'S ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She used to scrub the hash-house stairs,
ti, ,ii, . „
And clean ones bluchers for a “tray.
Despite the strain of kitchen cares
Her little heart was always gay;
01 , . , ,
She sang her songs the livelong day.
Her hair was ever in her eyes,
And poor and shabby were her clo’es;
And frankly and without disguise
She sported freckles on her nose,
And holes, too, in her cotton hose.
They paid twelve shillings every week
To Maud. It was a handsome wage
For one considered half a freak,
Till Rillson said: “She’d be the rage
With just that Stunt upon the stage.”
They then inveigled Maud away.
I saw her but a week ago
In her accustomed quaint array,
And singing her old songs just so—
Now as a “feature” in a show.
She polished boots in make-believe,
She scrubbed, but now made nothing clean,
She trailed her nose upon her sleeve,
And sang and chattered in between.
Of comedy we call her Queen.
Now forty pounds a week she’s paid,
And Maud when off is voted smart,
1! "j c !:;; nB , e Tr Sh • has » iade '
JhfL/w luS ~De, ,De I
She eall.d it work, she calls it art.
victoria.
SILAS SNELL.


ƒg
dfg
fgdgf
dg
SCHWEPPES
Mineral Waters
are the STANDARD OF COMPARISON
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Always Order SCHWEPPES.
Refuse Cheap Substitutes
and Imitations.
GOOD NEWS FOR STOUT PEOPLE.
RAPID FAT REDUCTION WITHOUT
EXERCISES OR STARVATION DIETS.
“One great objection to exercises for fat
reduction.” says a noted Health Scientist,
“is the after exhaustion and discomfort they
generally cause those who adopt this method
of becoming slender. Yet superfluous fat
can be rapidly and surprisingly reduced in a
more simple way. Get a dram of quassia
chips and three ounces of cirola-bark extract
from any chemist. Put the quassia chips in
a pan and pour a cupful of boiling water
over them; then, after they have stood for a
minute, strain the liquid through a cloth
and add the cirola-bark extract. Rub this
lotion into the fatty parts of the body, hips,
abdomen, chin or wherever excessive fat
exists, for about ten minutes night and
morning by a circular movement of the
hand. As the preparation is absorbed by
the skin it dissolves the fat tissues under-
neath, at the same time tightening the
loosened skin, and leaving it beautifully
smooth and firm.” — Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“ J.G.”: The just-dead Alisou Smith may
have produced one or two fiue types of
engines for the Vic. Railways, but there
were some howling failures to his account
as well. He designed the only real buck-
jumping loco. I ever helped to handle. The
free circus turn was given in Armstrong-
street, Ballarat, on the bit of line leading
from the Phoenix Foundry to the railway
station, about half a mile away. It was a
new type of engine which had caused a lot
of discussion amongst mechanical engineers,
so there was a big crowd outside the
foundry to see the juggernaut make a start.
It was coaxed into the street successfully,
but the fun started when steam was turned
on to get to the station. The brute ad-
vanced about a yard, then gave a terrific
buck, and ploughed up a few yards of the
street with its snout. Road metal and sand
flew in all directions, and so did the on-
lookers. The shaken driver shut off power
and the loco, righted itself again. After a
pause steam was turned on once more, and
again the buckjumper snorted and tore up
some more of the street. A third try gave
the same result, and the steam peril was
coaxed back into the foundry and the doors
banged defiantly at the crowd. The engine
was balanced so near the front that the
pressure of steam when it went into the
cylinder was just sufficient to make the beast
stand on its head.
A letter from brother Billjim of the Light
Horse:—
The Bedouin women have many charms and graces,
but truth remains at the bottom of their deepest
wells. After a search party, out for Turks or
arms, has done its duty by a village, a long pro-
cession of women, headed by the oldest and ugliest,
and tailed by the young and lovely, makes its way
to the Chief Officer’s quarters, where to his embar-
rassed subordinates a tragic list of offences is charged
against the searchers. Mostly the complaints concern
the loss of heirlooms of priceless worth, jewels which
would make the splendors of the Arabian Night 3
tales seem like a rush candle against the moon.
The Billjirns are rounded up to hear the charges, and
the interpreter is kept busy with denials and counter
charges for hours. In the end some young thing,
after much adroit cross-questioning, will suddenly
remember that she knows where the missing treasures
are. These turn out to be brass trinkets—rings,
anklets, armlets—or cheap combs and strings of
glass beads. Occasionally the collection will in-
clude some silver bangles, in which case the owner
gives herself the airs of (kesar’s old pal Cleopatra.
* * * *
“Wowser Willy” from Salisbury Plain: —
We overheard one English Tommy talking, to
another at a picture-show last week. We were just
behind them and heard the one telling the other,
who was evidently a new chum, all about the place.
The newchum asked about the Australians. “Oh,
they’re up on top of the hill,” the old head said.
■‘You can’t miss them. They all wear wristlet
watches and gold teeth, and, instead of calling
each other ‘chum’ like we do, they call each other” —
well, say deacons.
* * * *
From a Billjim’s letter to his lady :—•
Last week I went to Buckingham Palace for my
Military Cross. First I got a telegram ordering
me to be in attendance at 10.15 on Tuesday morning,
so I turned up resplendent with polished buttons,
brilliant long-boots, spurs and a borrowed sword—-
the last causing me a deal of anxiety. I took a
taxi to the Palace. As soon as I arrived, to my
great relief, the sword was taken from me and I
was put into a large room with about a dozen
others who were also to receive decorations. We
were lined up, and as I was the second senior I
was given the second place. Then a colonel came
and told us exactly what we were to do. He was
followed by a man who stuck a sort of meatliook
into each man’s coat just over the left-hand top
pocket. After the usual delay a door was opened
in the end of the room and we had to go in one at
a time. The King was standing, dressed in field-
marshal’s uniform, in the middle of a second room
and rather to the left. I had been told to walk
straight ahead into this room until I was level with
the King, then turn to my left, bow and advance
two paces towards him. I did it all quite success-
fully. Then the King stepped forward and, taking
the medal from a cushion on which it was handed
to him, placed it on the hook on my chest. He
said, “I congratulate you,” and shook hands with
me. After that I had to take two paces to the rear,
bow again and leave the room. As soon as I was
outside a flunkey removed the medal and the hook,
put the medal in a case and handed it to me.
Then came the part which I had funked most —leav-
ing the Palace and fighting through a crowd of
people and press photographers. Outside the Palace
itself there is a large courtyard into which the
“WHERE ARE MY CHILDREN?”
people are not allowed. Luckily as I came from
the Palace entrance I saw a littie side-gate out of
this courtyard with no crowd round it. Through
this I bolted and had the luck to find a taxi just
outside. I hopped in and fled.
English as she was spoke at a noisy anti
meeting:—
Man in Front (turning towards back benches) :
“ ’Ughes ought ter be knocked !”
Man at Back (complainingly) : “Gorblime, ’oo are
yer barkin’ at! I’m an anti!”
Man in Front (impatiently): “/ don’t mean youst
I mean ’Ughes—Billy ’Ughes!"
(Chorus of approval.)
“J.F.H.” (London) : Some patriotic Aus-
tralian ought really to move in the High
Court for an injunction to restrain the
Bishop of Kalgoorlie from persistently bring-
ing the Commonwealth into contempt and
derision. He has issued yet another
“appeal” here for the
coppers of Cockneys.
“Our financial posi-
tion has become in-
creasingly critical,” he
proclaims to the wide
world. He talks of the
“fast diminishing pop-
ulation of Westralia,”
deplores the “dying
townships” in his vast
diocese of 300,000
square miles, and pro-
ceeds to give the de-
tails of his episcopal
bankruptcy. When
Kalgoorlie separated
from Perth and went
into the business of
bishing on its ' own
account it got £9493 to
start with. That en-
dowment fund yields
an annual income of
£5OO, which is all the
diocese of Kalgoorlie
Can rely upon. But the
minimum figure on
which it can be run is
£l5OO a year. So, in
order to maintain an
unwanted bishopric,
the poor of London
are badgered by
female collectors
called the Kalgoorlie
Diocesan Association.
“The stipends -paid to
the clergy on the
Goldfields are in seve-
ral cases not a living
wage,” he adds, “and
a further difficulty is
that half of the 31
churches in the dio
cese are in need of
urgent repairs.” What
a proclamation for an
Australian prelate to
make in the world’s metropolis!
* # * *
“Kodak”: At a bush-wedJing just before
the conscription Referendum. ’The parson
had put the question: “Wilt thou take this
woman?” to the stuttering (bridegroom, -when
the grinning “best bloke” whispered behind
his vast sunburnt hand : “Vote ‘No,’ Bill!”
# * * *
The old Treasury Hotel, Queen-street,
Melbourne, is going the way of all de-
licensed houses at the end of the year and
taking its retiring editor, Tom Flanagan,
with it. Tom’s father,
Michael, who reigned
there before him, is
remembered as a pro-
found patriot of the
Ould Sod. Every 17tli
of March he kept a
tray of nice fresh
shamrocks on the
counter for the bhoys.
Early one Patrick’s
Day, Michael, was dis-
mayed, on re-entering
the bar after a brief
absence, to find the
tray cleared of the
precious leaves. Among
the few callers at the
time was a big Ger-
man customer, and on
the calamity being in-
vestigated it was
learned that Otto was
the perpetrator of the
atrocity. The vora-
cious Hun blandly
confessed to the furi-
ous patriot that he
had mistaken the
sacred grass for watercress.
* * * *
Melbourne, not to mention other business
centres in Victoria, gazed at its regulation
Cup Day holiday with a glum, inquiring
stare. The voice of the people asked, under
its breath: Why is this thus? All other
annual public holidays carry their meaning
on the face of them. Good Friday, Christ-
mas Day, January 1, King’s Birthday—they
commemorate actual facts. They are fixed
items in the to keep holy or
get drunk upon. But the Government
Gazette which declared November 7 to be
Melbourne Cup Day was an obvious liar, and
the pomilace wore the hangdog expression of
one who has been forced to take part in a
notorious fraud. Everything that happened
was occurring under false pretences. Hum-
bug was rampant in the land. Theatre
matinees, Sunday-school picnics—every sort
of wild festivity arranged for Cup Day was
duly carried out except the races at Flem-
ington. The entire excuse for the public
holiday had vanished. The dismal merry-
makers in the streets felt as though they
wei’e attending a funeral in the unavoidable
absence of the corpse.
INSIDE INFORMATION.
THE PASTOR: “So God has sent you two
more little brothers, Polly?”
POLLY ( brightly): “Yes, and He knows where
the money’s coming from to feed them.
I heard Daddy say so.”
“Hamer”: Corking the public bottle at
sundown has not made the drunk a mere
memory in Sydney. The police-court statistics
have gone joyfully on their way, 61 persons
being prosecuted in one court on a single day
recently. The sly-groggeries are doing a
brisk business, and, although the police secure
many convictions, they rarely capture
the principals. The real work is done by
runners, men and women, who seek out the
thirsty ones and volunteer to secure the stuff;
but they cancel the contract if the customer
attempts to follow them to the place where
the bottled treasure lies. So, when a runner
is caught, the sly-groggery is not disrupted.
Cold Tea, where is thy victory 1
* * * • *
One of the most tender blossoms in the
public service, in regard to criticism, is
Frank Tate, Director of Education. Every
now and again sombeody declares that the
State schools are understaffed, or ill-kept, or
that they do the thing better somewhere else.
Forthwith the Director shows signs of acute
discomfort, protesting that his schools are
not understaffed, that £47 9s. 2d. was spent
on repairs last year, and that Victoria’s is
absolutely the best system in Australia.. Yet
an earnest critic is hardly to be satisfied
with such simple statements. One of the
latest strictures to annoy the Director was to
the effect that “frills and fads” and an
excess of subjects load the time-table so that
it sags down behind. The mere denial of
such an allegation gets the Department
nowhere. What the injured Tate should do
is to explain exactly why he authorises the
pursuit of various studies which have been
added to the curriculum in recent years,
while an immense proportion of State
scholars continue to go through their com-
pulsory term without learning to write and
speak plain English.
* # * *
“Murkah”: I agree with “Condenser”
(B. 28/9/Y6) that for wireless telegraph
detectors galena is the daddy of all crystal
receivers. But the Yankee has lately intro-
duced an improvement on a British idea
that makes galena, with its 4000-mile per-
formance, look like a deaf and dumb asylum.
Signals that are inaudible on the best crystal
are amplified so as to be easily read by the
senso-audion. Remarks from stations a
mere 4000 miles away come in with a roar
like a fast train. Its best performance to
date is about 9000 miles.
THE WAY OF THE STARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has been suggested that, in view of the need
of energetic repopulating after the war, not. only
should bachelors be taxed, but there should be given
a direct incentive to the acquirement of progeny by
making a man’s advancement depend on the number
of his children.
The law of Providence is just:
Oh, Heaven forbid that I should doubt!
I can but bow and take on trust
The way my lot is portioned out.
My brother Algernon and I
In adolescent years designed
The world’s temptations to defy
And in good works our solace find.
We kept our theologic terms
At the same university,
And lived the lives of bookish worms
Through sunshine and . adversity.
We were ordained the sdlf-same day;
Our pass percentages were level:
It looked odds on that we would play
An equal havoc with the Devil.
And for some years we surely did :
Our score of salvaged souls all square,
We prospered evenly amid
The smiles and favors of the fair.
At swarries and at parish teas
We practised affability
Precisely in the same degrees;
We balanced in humility.
Our incomes coinciding, too,
Each drew a like amount per year.
Deciding the same night to woo,
Each whispered to a chosen ear.
At the same altar we were wed ;
One organ played our wedding march;
Contemporaneous prayers were said
With equiponderating starch.
On coextensive honeymoons,
Coequally felicitous,
We basked, and in the afternoons
Like people came to visit us.
And then —for who shall say what sins?—
His way and mine no more commingle,
For Mrs. Algernon had twins;
My wife could but achieve a single.
Persisted as the years ensued
This curious disparity—
With Algernon a growing brood,
With me increase a rarity.
His ran to twelve; mine stopped at four;
Pray as I might, no blessings came;
On him they showered more and more
And his became an honored name.
I to my vicarage adhered,
Not much by those in power accounted,
While he, increasingly revered,
The hierophantic ladder mounted.
The law of Providence is right
And still for worth and merit caters;
My vicarage must hold me tight—
I envy Alg. his bishop’s gaiters.
N.S:W.
INVER G.


The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don’t. Men who drink
Thorne’s Whisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet —you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet.
THORNE'S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[2
THE
L
Wgm ;«5._
K
m
c r j
*1 .V
. ?fr <s^“ a, sdss?Sss
!fa,
.. .itf? >-sK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1.498.220. Reserve Fund, £630,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD. Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. [I. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. 8. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria. South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgrate, E.C.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon
3, la carte luncheon, from
Table d'hote dinner
Dining-room Open to Non-residents
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
2/6
1/6
3/6
Governor Stanley has taken it all back and
apologised. Some time ago he suggested that
perhaps the wattle wasn’t the decorative
vegetable this country might wish its best-
advertised native flower to be. Ever since
then a multitude of Arts-and-Orafters have
been busy working the blossom up into fire-
screens and candlesticks and ceilings and
chinaware and kettle holders: and the other
day they showed his Ex. the accumulated
results of their labors, whereupon Sir
Arthur gave three hasty cheers and ex-
pressed his penitence. Still, the wattle is a
difficult flower to deal with in most
mediums, and it seems likely enough that the
0.C., Government House, got his original
impressions thereof from the plaques, hand-
painted china and one-dollar water-colors
seen at the bazaar-openings of his early Vic-
torian career.
* ‘ * *
“Pink Tape’s” guffaw :
N. S. Wales Public Service has been enjoying a
rumpus which commenced in the Auditor-General’s
office and ended with Gregory Wade in the soup, as
usual. It appears that the A.-G. made some remarks
about the Irrigation Commission which came to the
ears of Wade. He ’ jumped at an opportunity to
slang the Government, and the astute Holman agreed
to appoint a Commission to ascertain if the Trust
was monkeying with public tenders. Then Wade
made some inquiries and- found out that he was
the victim of a misunderstanding. Whereupon he
faded away and refused to attend the Commission, or
have anything to do with it, or even pay for the
unnecessary expense he had caused. The Commis-
sioner’s finding was a complete exoneration of the
Irrigation Commission, and he sounded the loud
timbrel of praise for the staff and its methods. He
did not adversely comment on the Auditor-General,
his staff and their methods, but his finding must
carry a hint to that effect. There is unholy rejoicing
in many of the departments in consequence, as the
Audit office succeeds in getting on the nerves of all
hands—and perhaps wouldn’t be much of an Audit
office if it didn’t.
* * * *
There was a queer tangle in Maoriland the
other day. At Blenheim last June a ease
was to have been heard in which It. W.
Young claimed £lOOO from H. A. Munro for
assault. Before it came on Munro paid
£175 into court, and denied liability. On
the day of the hearing the defendant com-
mitted suicide; and then plaintiff notified
defendant’s solicitor that he agreed to
accept the amount paid into court in
settlement. But the question arose
whether it wasn’t then too late for
him to do it. There was profound
argument, of course, ended by the
Chief Justice holding that the de-
fendant’s death abated the action. So
the defendant’s widow gets the cash
back.
FOR SELF-DEFENCE.
MAY: “He positively refused to marry her when he lost an arm .”
MARY: “Chivalry?”
MAY: “No. He knew he’d need two.”
“Lantana”: Is it brotherly love or just
insanitary carelessness? During Referendum
week I attended a meeting at Bondi Junc-
tion (Sydney). There was only one tum-
bler (to drink out of), and six of the eight
speakers, after finishing their turns, drank
from it without as much as swilling it out!
The chief offender was the chairman—an
M.D. He actually poured out the liquid for
the orators.
.** * *
Hobart Gaol is still the same casual, easy
old place to get away from. George Hudson,
sentenced to death in 1908 for murder (the
sentence was commuted into a “lifer” at the
last moment), calmly walked out the other
day. Good conduct had earned him con-
siderable freedom, so nobedy was surprised
when he wandered into the Deputy-Gover-
nor’s quarters, borrowed a civilian suit, and
strolled into the street. He is still strolling.
A little while ago two other prisoners
got out in a similar fashion. Down in
Hobart only panicky fools advertise their
attempts by scaling walls.
The Parliamentary perk had an unlooked
fo’’ advt, during- the V.It.C. Spring meeting.
Alfred Billson began it with a few remarks
in the Assembly as to V.R.C. admission-fees,
which drew forth a reminder from chairman
L. K. S. Mackinnon that every Parliamen-
tarian was sent a pass for himself and his
wife, etc. That, apparently, set the Com-
mittee inquiring; and presently it announced
the withdrawal of members’ tickets and
the adoption of a new procedure—the
admission of members by the exhibition of
their gold railway passes. Perks are perks;
but apparently the Parliamentarian has his
own ideas as to the disposal of the trifles,
such as passing along the concession to a
pal when he can’t use it himself, with con-
sequent damage to the patriotic funds, which
get the benefit of money taken at the gates.
The new edict ought to put a damper on
that performance.
The nine women chosen to start a Vic-
torian Poll ice Force have expressed a hope
that the uniform will be made a little more
attractive than the one the authorities have
designed. They want to arrest attention, if
nothing else.
A poor strategist who
had never competed in an
egg-and-spoon race or
served his time as a waiter
walked into a Sydney shop
last week, dived at a 201 b.
dish of sausages and fled
with the lot. Anybody
who has ever tried to
hurry with a laden dish
will feel as sorry for him
as he probably did for him-
self when he got fairly
started. However, there
was no going back and
starting afresh, so he con-
tinued to spurn the pave-
ment with his feet and
keep his eyes fixed on the
far horizou. A zealous and
fleet footed assistant with
the unusual name of
Dewberry started in pur-
suit and the Hun in front
began to gallop. Sausages
began to leap from the
shaking dish like new
Spring grasshoppers, till
the blindest bloodhound
could have followed his
trail. Meanwhile the venge-
ful Dewberry was storming
along gallantly like Beatty
in the Lion. The despe-
rate thief in front then
cast the accursed dish and
the remainder of the
sausages from ' him and
escaped down a lane which
may be called Kiel Canal.
Next time he will finesse a
bit and get the sausages compactly wrapped
before he flies with them.
* * * *
“Binnacle”: Well into the third year of
the war, after a series of explosions and fires
on shipboard and a few founderings, some
Kip Van Winkle has suddenly awakened, and
now it is an offence for a master or owner to
employ a person of*enemy origin on a vessel.
Naturalisation is no excuse. It may seem
incredible that up till recently (and maybe
now) three steamers trading out of Sydney
were in command of full-blooded German-
born skippers. The trouble will be to find
out who are aliens. Fifty per cent, of the
coastal men are “Dutchmen,” but while
before the war a large number were ad-
mittedly Germans, now they are all Danes,
Swedes, Finns or Norwegians. None have
birth certificates, and if you ask one of them
to get a copy (cost, 25.) he will take it as
a personal affront. A lot of experience has
taught me that if the foreign seamen on the
coast are to be required to prove their birth-
place there will be much fun for somebody.
* # * *
“St. Jimmy”: Billjim, hungry in France,
wanted scrambled eggs at the coffee-stall, but
h ; s French wps not equal to it, so he and
the bright-eyed waitress put their heads
together over his pocket-dictionary. Pre-
sently he made a shot at it by indicating
“Avancer avec l’aide des pieds et des mains”
(to go forward with the help of the hands
and feet—the nearest he could get to scram-
ble). The girl for some reason concluded
that a chick in the shell was what was re-
quired, and politely regretted that the dread-
ful article was not in stock. However, Bill-
gim was a resourceful and determined Aus-
tralian, so he called for a pot and asked for
the eggs (for which he had the French) and
did the scrambling himself.
“Lyndal Wood”: Miss Corabelle Toorak
entered the common tram-car clad in a real
fur coat and wedged herself between me and
Artillery Bill, who was at the mellow stage.
Just then the conductor came along and
intoned “Faresspleess!” Corabelle started to
explore all the gilded ironmongery she had—
gold bag, cigarette-case, lip-salve and vanity
box, but did not seem to be able to locate the
coppers she was searching for. Then Bill
thought he sized up the trouble, and handed
over three coppers unnoticed to the con-
ductor with a careless jerk of the thumb
towards Corabelle. The conductor took the
fare, punched a trip-slip and walked down
the car. “Oh, here is my fare!” called
Corabelle as she held up a ticket she had
discovered in her matchbox. “You have been
paid for,” said the conductor. “By whom?"
she asked in her best Government House
dinner voice. “7 paid for yer,” said Bill in
a big-brotherly way. “I know wot you
wimmen are, leavin’ yer purses be’ind yer, on
the copper, or the sink, or the mangle after
yer been payin’ the Chow or the grocer
or” By this time Corabelle was dull
purple in the face and her eyes were flashing
danger signals. “Take my fare!” she com-
manded in a staccato vibrato. “We only
charge one fare for one person,” said the
conductor brightly. Then the suburban
princess jerked the bell-strap and brought
the car to such a sudden stop we all roiled
sideways on the seats. As she flounced out
she flung the ticket at Bill. But it fluttered
out of the door on to the road, and Bill re-
marked scornfully, “I might er saved me
thruppence!”
THE CAT CRITIC .
HE: “You’d never think she was a wife and
mother!”
SHE: “Silly hoy! Her way of ogling three
men at once is quite matronly.”
“8.T.”: Truth is still stranger than no-
tion. The recent Vic. floods resulted in a
large, miscellaneous collection of persons
from over a wide, water-logged area being
thrown together in one big, hill-top institu-
tion, where they were cut off from the daily
baker and the comforts of religion for several
days. Meanwhile the goings-on of one couple
had greatly embarrassed the management.
The management was willing that the estab-
lishment should be a haven of refuge for the
afflicted, but there were limits, and at length,
in the interests of decorum, and at the ear-
nest solicitation of the other derelicts, the
management approached the erring ones half
THE GIRL ON THE SPOT.
FLORA : “He is the third lover she has lost
through the war.”
DORA: “Ah! Wounds?”
FLORA : “No. Nurses.”
apologetically and with the best intentions
in the world, but had not got off three para-
graphs of his well-chosen harangue when the
man said : “That will about do, thanks. The
fact is this lady and I are married. We
have been married for over 15 years.” It
was perfectly true, too ; but for 11 years the
couple had been separated, until Fate, to
effect a reconciliation, had flooded a whole
countryside, and thrown them once more into
each other’s arms.
IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We could not frolic ’mid the heather,
Because there was no heather there;
Instead, we lolled in golden weather
Among the scrub, and you were fair.
I loved you at first sight, and you
Loved me straightway. What could we do,
Since joy was keen and fate was kind
And we had left the world behind?
We fibbed and kissed (do you remember?),
And then we kissed and fibbed again.
You’d be eighteen the next September,
And lived with Ma and sister Jane
At Darling Point. I said that I
Was twenty-six; that’s ten years shy.
And well you knew (you rascal Kate!)
I knew you’d done with twenty-eight.
You didn’t, and you guessed I’d guessed it,
Live down at Darling Point with Ma
And Jane, you rogue! As for the rest, it
Mattered but little. Better far
To kiss away the afternoon
Than swap hard facts that stale so soon.
The man's at best a graceless lout
Who spies a lady’s secrets out.
And thus at set of sun we parted,
To meet again we knew not where.
We didn’t whimper broken-hearted,
Or sob aloud, or tear our hair.
We’d had, let pain come late or soon,
A very happy afternoon.
Maybe we missed a lot of pain
Because we never met again.
N.S.W.
ELLERSLIE GREY.


HELP!
“We must face the presumption of the war lasting far into 1918.” —London OBSERVER.


The habits of man differ from those of
the lower animals only through accidents
of evolution.— Von Gumboozle.
So that it’s only a fluke we don’t
eat our meals like this
—and hold musical evenings
in trees.
This is an old gentle-
man who will be late
for dinner because he
stopped to bark at a
sparrow.
And Percy and Mabel driving the neighbors mad at 3 a.m.
This might have been a common sight
Think of father get-
ting up in the night to
hay at the moon.
IF.


JfuaeicL
Chaving
<2)TICK
XL£V£R><
For an
Ideal Shave
■ — Li‘ ’ - "''X
: ! >
6
vnvuxs-nv ni 3avw
3
w
§f3fe>. $»
sS&j&Vn
'■gs&sßmzm
*■*'***»
m&m'i*-
0 ..
dfg
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS &
WMITTY
MAKERS;
M m
S
1
mmM
TempsW&
faZ&mßSsMsS&ss
-
£*3S
*sr
w«s:*»«fss
V,
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
dMLBE Y’S
DRY (a IN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere ir» Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some people may call this a drab old
world, but it’s been all Hughes lately. Fad-
ing Hughes, mostly.
Ormond (Melb.) and Trinity (Cam-
bridge) can gild the laurels they put against
the name of Lieut.-Professor S. Bruce
McLaren, who was mortally wounded in
France on July 26, whilst making an
attempt with two others to put out a fire
that threatened to explode a pitful of bombs.
The first attempt proving unsuccessful, he
tried again single-handed, was hit once more
and had to be taken away on a stretcher
towards the dressing station. On the way
the bearers put down the stretcher for a
rest, whereupon McLaren struggled to his
feet saying that he was too heavy and
would walk. But, game as he was, he
couldn’t manage it. He died in hospital on
August 13 of the original head wound. The
fine brain that a German bullet stopped had
been engaged on “recasting the whole of
the physics of matter and ether.” The
hideous waste of war !
ASKING TOO MUCH.
WAITER : “Alas, Monsieur, the tear”
BILLJIM : “Yairs, I know all about the war;
but, ’struth, you don’t expect me to pay
the Whole bloomin’ indemnity, do yer?”
Still another Bulletin art-contributor has
gone to the Front, so the list now includes
(Julies, Ilartt, Brown, Sommers, Mattinson,
IP-oth, Townshend and Elmes- —the last the
latest to go. Incidentally, The Bulletin
last week made its one and only application
to hi'v • a man exempted from military ser-
vice for the present. David Low is the solitary
unmarried man on The Bulletin’s literary
"i’d artistic staff who is not at the Front;
■ d because of the large number of married
men who have also gone, it did not seem nos-
sible to suddenly fill the gap that Low’s de-
parture would make, nor did it seem from
the public point of view desirable that his
recruiting pen should be lost. Dwyer, P.M.,
of Melbourne, thought so too.
The German professor, Alfred Manes, who
whooped last week in the Lokal Anzeiger
over the Referendum, was in Australia in
15)09 and published his opinion of us in
the following year. His book, “Ins Land
der Sozialen Wunder,” should have been
worth translating, but the British have never
bothered about foreign criticism. Manes
met Deakin and Fisher: “both fine types,”
he said, “without the stiffness of English
politicians.” He thought Australia and
Maoriland were paradises for the working
man, who ran the Government and there-
fore worked at a slower rate, ate more meat
and had fewer children than their fellows in
Europe. “Nowhere has the citizen more
extensive rights and fewer obligations....
Australasians are admirers of their own
countries, yet lack true patriotism, for patri-
otism must be judged by the sacrifice one is
prepared to make for the Fatherland.” Our
national enthusiasm was manifested in sport,
and he deplored our lack of interest in science
or art. Above all, we were a mere handful
of people in a continent which could hold
20 millions, surrounded by perils, without a
past and without a future! The learned
pessimist must have been surprised when the
meat-eaters from Australasia showed up so
well, at Gallipoli and Pozieres. But the
million-odd who voted “No” show that he
was right to that extent about Australian
short-sightedness.
Died last week, at Broken Hill, Dr. L. L.
Seabrook, who had been resident-surgeon at
the local hospital for 15 years, and his father
was there before him. Dr. T.E.F., the father,
was the first lecturer at the Adelaide Medi-
cal School. He knew his job thoroughly—all
except about sending in the bill. So he found
himself picked up by friends and sent off
into the wilderness to be the mine doctor
when the Broken Hill Prop. Co. was born;
and father and son —the former died a few
years ago—have been mending the splin-
tered miner in all the 30 years since.
Tommy Jessep, the banana-dealer who
persuaded poor old Parkes that he really
was politically defunct, died in Sydney last
week. After the “new Liberals” had defi-
nitely arrived, and the Labor party had
turned him down, Parkes ruled off the ledger
and wrote his autobiography. But he
couldn’t keep out of politics, and in ’95, on
the death of Angus Cameron, he asked
Waverley to give him another life. The
cemetery suburb, however, knew more about
burials than resurrections, and Tommy
Jessep came in a winner on the tale of the
Yellow Pup. He wasn’t much of a poli-
tician, but he made a great success of the
Fruit Exchange, with which he was con-
nected till he died. He had 12 years in
Parliament.
Mrs. William Crick, who died at Rand-
wick last week, aged 84, was mother of
Meagher’s old partner, W.P., the brainiest
and worst-ballasted politician who ever
sailed into the N. S. Wales Lands Depart-
ment —and the Minister’s room there' has
been the refuge of brainy and badly-bal-
lasted men for 40 years past.
Engineering circles in Sydney lost an old
identity through the passing out of James
Blackwood, aged S 6. He came from Glas-
gow 53 years ago with Captain Gilmour, in
the steamer Alexandria, representing the
builders, Blackwood and Gordon, of Port
Glasgow. The vessel was sold to the old
A.S.N. Co., whose service Blackwood joined.
In the next 20 years he superintended the
building of 16 steamers, including the
Wotonga, Ranelagh, Cintra, Quairaing,
Rockton and Cahors. Some time in the
’eighties he retired from his A.S.N. job and
went into business, where he stuck.
Johnston, M.L.A., of Westralia, now an
Independent but once a follower of Happy
Jack Scaddan, described his ex-chief last
week as “a political gastropod,” explaining
carefully that a gastropod was an animal
without brains or backbone that crawled on
its stomach. Scaddan at once rose and
(quite unnecessarily) urged him to “say it
outside.” Of course it will be said outside.
It is one of those carefully-barbed “im-
promptus” that are repeated outside until
everybody is sick to death of hearing them.
When the claims of the Federated Clerks’
Union come before the Court of Industrial
Appeal the Union will be represented in Mel-
bourne by a woman, Miss Rose Smith. She
is a brainy girl who was a State school
teacher before taking up quill-driving, and
she can be relied upon to put up a good fight
for equal pay for equal work.
“Te Whare”: John Williams, an erst-
while Crown Solicitor of N. S. Wales, joined
to a caustic wit a marked preference for
comfortable old garments. To him once
said Julian Salomons, who at a very early
stage of his brilliant career earned bread
and butter in the shop of a pawnbroker:
“Really, Williams, the Bar will have to
subscribe and get you a new suit.”
“Thanks.” replied the astute “Crown” —
“much obliged to you. But. Salomons, what
an eye you have for old clothes !”
“Fitzwilliam”: 1 hate to give the Hun
anv credit just now, but Torrens was not
the originator of his system of land regis-
tration, and never claimed to be. He got it
from Germany, where in Bavaria it had
been used for 600 years and in Prussia for
60. My authority is Torrens himself —in a
statement made before a British Parlia-
mentary Commission that was considering
the introduction of the system some 50 years
ago. Torrens afterwards explained his views
and the history of the system in an essay
published in one of the English reviews.
There’s a copy in Sydney Public Library,
where I read it many years ago.
HE WOULD RISK THE WORST.
“What! Want to marry my daughter?
You’d he doing better if you went to the
Front.”
“Do you think so. sir? I’m — er —willing
to take the risk, sir.”
Apparently it was only in peaceful S. Aus.
that the leader of the No Conscription party
argued the matter with his fists. The row
was between him and Goode, local Minister
for Lands. Goode describes the bout this
way:— ■
I turned to Lionel Hill and said: Privately you
have expressed yourself in favor of conscription, but
you have sold your soul for a seat. He thereupon
called me a liar. I shook my fist in his face and
cautioned him not to repeat the charge. Without
any warning he struck at me.
To which Hill naturally replies that a
gentleman who shakes his fist in another
gentleman’s face must be pretty unsophisti-
cated if he expects to be warned that he is
liable to have his own nose punched.
Hardworking Judge Russell, who looks after
Insolvency, Taxation and everything just
below Supreme Court importance in S. Aus.,
has been in bed since July, with neuritis.
It is the first real holiday he has taken for
10 years.
Alfred Searcy, Auelaide’s authority on old-
time conditions in the Northern Territory,
has just heard from Russia that the transla-
tion of his gossipy book, “By Flood and
Field,” is to be published at Christmas. The
translating was done before the war, but
Petrograd has not been able to find the
requisite paper till now.
Will Dyson has received an honorary
appointment from the Australian Govern-
ment to make battle drawings at the Front,
more particularly of the Anzacs. These
drawings are to be constructed with a view
to historical interest, and will be the prop-
erty of the nation. The permission of the
British War Office is necessary to complete
the arrangement, and High Commissioner
Fisher was negotiating for that when last
mail left.
Albert Dorrington’s little daughter “Billy”
recently wrote to Kipling asking him to auto-
graph a photo of himself, which the late
Frank Bullen had given her. The picture
was returned, signed, with a note: —
Dear Miss Billy, — Because I do not always answer
letters personally X am considered a very husky fellow
at times. Between you and myself there is a grain
of truth in this report, and I am often very terrible
when the post comes in. I am glad you knew and
loved Frank Bullen ; he was also my dear friend, and
had a fine regard for you Splendid Australians. I
had a boy who came near writing stories about kan-
garoos and Queensland pearl-fishers. But another
call came, and Johnny went to France, where the
stars are still shining, although Johnny’s drum has
ceased to beat. —Very sincerely, Rudyard Kipling.
As most people are sorry to know, “Johnny”
Kipling was killed in France some time in
March last.
“Stenog” : Gilbert White, Bishop of Wil-
lochra. lately lectured some of the women of
Melbourne on the wickedness of putting re-
strictions on maternity. While he had them
there he might also have referred to the
dodgers of paternity. But perhaps lie didn’t
like to. Take Petersburg (S.A.), the head-
quarters of this talker’s diocese. White him-
self, his rector, curate and diocesan clerk are
all single men. White is either very rash
or else he can’t see that he resides in a
glass palace.
Australia’s old friend Arthur Bentley
Worthington lately came to the surface
again in a brief cable from New York which
stated that a Western Presbyterian Church
tribunal, after an investigation of charges
of false pretences, had deposed him from
the ministry. Years ago Worthington worked
a religious business in gorgeous fashion in
Christchurch (M.L.), mostly on the money
of adoring women. His “Temple of Culture”
included magnificent bathrooms—
things that are not often associated
with the old religions. When the
Temple became mostly mortgages and
debts, he engaged in soul-uplifting
operations in Sydney, and his Greek-
god head proved an attraction to
fluffy saints. But a lady who had
been induced to spend money on the
strength of vague remarks about the
rising of the Nile and the commands
of Osiris and Isis finally revolted,
and the Law decided that Isis was
a fraud and Osiris hadn’t a leg to
stand upon. Apparently Worthington
has ’verted to Presbyterianism for a
rest from these religious fancy-goods.
Melbourne councillor Charles Atkins, win
went to England and insisted on being made
a useful war-worker, is now a minor officer
of the Defence Corps: His alternate job is
to look after stores and boss the police-
guard, more or less, at a prisoners’ camp
where 600 Germans are having a nice quiet
time. When he goes the prison rounds he
carries a loaded revolver and is preceded by
a corporal armed with a loaded rifle, although
two men and a machine-gun would seem a
better precautionary measure. The incar-
cerated Huns give concerts, to which the
officer-in-charge is invited on condition that
he comes unarmed. Councillor Lieut. Atkins
went unarmed to a recent musical evening,
and sent a programme (printed in German,
of course) to his Melbourne friends as evi-
dence of good faith. There was a lot of
musical talent in an orchestra of 18 strings,
two reeds and four brasses. The first violin
was a member of the Kaiser’s Imperial
Orchestra, and a baritone soloist had b:-
longed to the Royal German Opera Co. The
superabundance of strings is accounted for,
seemingly, by the fact that fiddlers are feeble
combatants who surrender easily. They don’-
fight and die with the enthusiasm of clarion-
ettes and brasses.
Some men prefer the horse to motor-cars
and railway trains even in these days of
hustle. The other day David Barber, who
some years ago moved from Stawell (Vic.)
into N. S. Wales, took a trip to his old
home. He harnessed up his _ horse and
drove all the way, about 800 miles, putting
in just about a month on the trip. Mrs.
Barber did the first 500 miles or so with
him. Then she gave it up and caught a
train.
MOMENTS OF SUSPENSE.
No. 1. —When the Rev. S. Candles Lush
regretted his rashness in politely ashing if
he could he spared another scone.
The Thomson family, which has its head-
quarters at Peel, near Bathurst (N.S.W,),
has seven sons out of eight in khaki. The
eighth happens to be a parson ; but he woukl
also have gone to tight the helmeted Devil
abroad if a bishop had released his reverend
coat-tails.
THE DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Others returning; from the fields of fame
Will tell their tales of hazard and of stress,
And o’er and o’er to eager ears repeat
Their glimpse of battle, vivid, incomplete;
Blurred recollections, and no two the same ;
Broken remembrance patched with thought and guess.
But we who know the whole shall silent, be,
Holding our tongues to all eternity.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


The
99
per Packet
fg
per Packet
CASTLES” CIGARETTES
are the very best that the smoker
can obtain. Besides their absolute and
unapproachable superiority as to quality,
they are heavier than any other Cigarette
sold at the same price per packet— conse-
quently better value to the purchaser.
They are entitled to occupy the pride ol
place and popularity accorded them by
every connoisseur as—
THE BEST CIGARETTE!
.
1
38
m
2
bm m ©
a
JJ
op
'£) &%
*9
V
C
\
i{&
CIGARETTES
Caftle
WD.&H.O. WILLS.
BristollrjUnJ sSydney.
PER
PACKET
rnn
iree
arettes
HEAVY WEIGHTS
W. D. & H. O. WILLS


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Eald Rcckj
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
1]
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON— 3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
gf
ADAMAX ROOFING A Better Roofing that Costs Less.
It is the ideal Roofing—most economical —costing-
less than galvanised iron and less for freight.
Does not rot, crack, rust or pinhole through exposure to climatic
changes. Resists the ravages of gases, acids and chemical fumes. Made
from long-fibred felt and thoroughly saturated with pure mineral
hydro-carbon. Contains no tar, fish-oil or resin.
Send for particulars and prices.
William Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence St,, Sydney.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of: —
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
• (Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
Sept.,’oB.. 146?493 10 p.c.=
£350,000 of reserves capitalised.. 36,369
Mar., ’09.. 162,632 10 p.c.= 142,500 20,132 56,501
Sept.,'o9.. 168,551 10 „ ~142,500 26,381 82.582
Mar., ’lO.. 175,590 10 „ ~142,500 33,090 115,972
Sept., 'lO. . 196,714 10 „ ~142,500 54,214 170,186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised.. 20,186
Mar., ’ll.. 207,42 S 10 p.c.= 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept.,’ll. . 210,830 11 ..,, 165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., ’12.. 225,601 124 „ ~187.500 38,101 161,545
Sept.,’l2.. 229,629 12$ ~ 187,500 42,129 203,674
Mar., ’13.. 233,530 12J „ ~ 187,500 46,030 249,704
A 250,000 of reserves capitalised. . ( ro niQ
Sept.,’l3. . 255,440 121 p.e.=203,125 52,315 j
Mar., ’14.. 263,761 121 „ ~203,125 60,636 112,655
Sept., ’l4. . 256,361 121 „ ~203,125 53,236 165,891
Mar., ’l5. . 272,708 121,, ~203,125 69,583 235,474
Assets written up, £3,250,000 |
Bonus to shareholders (in Fiji >235,474
and N.Z. Co. stock), £3,250,000 J
Mar. ,’l6. . 261,250 6lp.c.= 211, 250 50,000 285,474
Sept., ’l6. . 143,004 61 „„ 105,625 37.379 322,853
’Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
Poor old thing! It is having a dreadful
time. Eighteen months or so back the busi-
ness was cut in halves, and the C.S.R. (Fiji
and N.Z.) Ltd. was formed to take over the
assets in the Pacific. That left this old
C.S.R. Co. with the Queensland and a few
N.S.W. North Coast mills and farm proper-
ties and the Australian refinery business.
Queensland is, of course, the main source
of supplies; hence a disturbance of the
industry in Queensland has a larger effect
upon this co. now than it would have had
in the days before the subdivision of assets.
And there has been a disturbance in Queens-
land all right. The price of sugar was first
fixed by one authority and then the wages
in the industry w r ere fixed by another autho-
rity. The result was, naturally, chaos. A
Government can fix prices or it can fix
wages without any very serious conse-
quences. If the prices are fixed too low,
then wages have to accommodate them-
selves. If wages are fixed too high, then
prices have to accommodate themselves. But
when both prices and wages are fixed, then
the irresistible meets the immovable, and
there are likely to he neither prices nor
wages. In this case the farmers, after pro-
testing that they couldn’t go on, buckled to;
whereupon there were yells that the pre-
vious kicking was all bluff. But nothing of
the sort was proved. That the growers made
the best of it showed, not that they were
being fairly dealt with, but that they
couldn’t afford to lose everything. That
the chaos in the industry may do a lot of
damage to this co. is nothing to be cheerful
about. That it should seriously prejudice
one of the greatest of our semi-tropical
industries is little short of a national dis-
aster.
If there is any starving to be done and
anybody else can do it, it is fairly safe to
bet that it won’t be done, by the
C.S.R. Even in the midst of the present
Queensland trouble, it shows this silver
lining to the cloud: ’‘So far as the refining
business is concerned, we have again agreed
with the Commonwealth to handle this year’s
Australian crop and the sugar imported to
supply the community.” The table shows
how well the co. has done through all the
tribulations of the industry. Nominally it now
pays only 65 p.c. But the C.S.R. share-
holders got share for share in the Fiji co.,
and the latter pays a ridiculously easy 6 p.c.
So the actual return is 12| p.c. on
capital, which has been very largely pro-
vided out of earnings. Besides owning the
assets of the old co. in Australia this original
C.S.R. holds 250,000 ordinary £1 shares in
the Fiji co.; and these shares are entitled
to all the profits after the prefs. have had
0 p.c. On past experience this holding may
be enormously valuable by and bye. But
past experience may not be a fair guide to
the future. The Indian. has been of great
service in making sugar profits in Fiji; and
now the Indian Government, is discouraging
coolie emigration. Hence Fiji doesn’t know
for the moment where to turn ; for the local
population won’t work —hard enough, any-
way—-and the islanders are frankly afraid
to introduce Chinese lest the dragon should
swallow them presently.
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ '
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 p.c.= 45,000 26,330 .357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO. . 257,915
Mar., 1911. .107,833 10 p.c.= 50,000 57,833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 „ „ 50,000 49,732 365,480
Mar., 1912. .124,403 10 „ ~ 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO. . 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c.= 55,000 40,303 380,156
Assets written up, £350,000 . . 730,186
Transferred to Capital, £550,000. . 180,186
Ord. Pref.
(10 p.c.) (6 0.c.)
Mar., 1913.. 86,126 55,000 16,500 14,626 194,812
(8 p.c.)
Sept., 1913.. 50,613 55,000 22,000 3,613 198,425
(10 p c.)
Mar.. 1914. .169,062 55,000 27,500 86,562 284,987
Transferred to Capital, £137,500 .. 147,487
Sept., 1914.. 99,901 61,875 27,500 10,526 158,013
Mar., 1915. .172,773 61,875 27,500 83,398 241,411
Sept., 1915.. 82,022 61,875 27,500 234,058
9 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1916.. 99,771 55,687 19,250 24,834 258,892
Sept., 1916.. 60,151 55,087 19,250 - 244,106
That doesn’t look very cheerful —Sept., 1914,
£99,901 ; 1915, £82,022 ; 1916, £60,151. But
there is something to be said in extenuation:
out of the past half-year’s net profits £2OOO
has been put by for the benefit of employees
who have enlisted and £15,000 has been
snicked out to provide for additional State
and Federal taxes. Perhaps this better
shows what things would have been like but
for abnormal calls
Profits on Management, Balance
Brewing's, Wages, of
Sept., etc. Excise, etc. Profit.
1912. . £233,070 £132,768 £100,302
1913.. 268,548 172,935 95,613
1914.. 293.003 186,101 106,902
1915.. 270,499 174,478 96,021
1916.. 272,370 184,219 88,151
If we exclude 1914, when the circumstances
were exceptional, the gross profits on brew-
ings and trade have been well maintained.
On the other hand, not only have what may
be called the ordinary outgoings been
steadily increasing, but extra handfuls must
now be taken out of the profits. Between
1913 and 1916, to earn an extra £3822 called
for an extra expenditure of £11,284, and on
top of the latter figure falls the extra taxa-
tion and the vote for the benefit of men who
have enlisted.
So far as one can judge there has been
no decrease of trade on account of the early
closing of pubs. Anyway, the gross earn-
ings have been maintained. But this posi-
tion has only been reached by a larger out-
lay, some of it no doubt defensive; and this
and other brewing cos. probably always will
have to spend a good deal of money in fight-
ing. Apart from that it looks as though
there will be less sparkle in the beer very
soon now. The end of the N. S. Wales State
borrowing boom seems to have definitely
arrived. It will be kept going awhile, no
doubt, in a modified way, by the wicked
Norton Griffiths agreement; but the little
jobs with which the Government has been
feeding and bribing its supporters are stop-
ping one after the other. We are near the
same painful awakening that we had in the
early ’9o’s. Previously Tooths had been
gaily paying 10 p.c. In 1894 they were
down to 7 p.c. and were not too comfortable
even then. llow long the depression will
last this paper doesn’t know. Perhaps not
very long. It depends on the seasons and
what we can get for our wool and wheat
and metals. After that all experience leads
us to expect another such fling as this co.
has enjoyed during the last 10 years. Look
at this: —
Sept., ’O6. Sept., ’l6.
Liabilities .. .. £16,172 £67,298
Breweries, etc... 635,016 1,496,400
Book debts . . 240,489 244,468
Stock . . .. 91,856 266,104
Liquid . . . . 172,499 194,869
Net assets in 1906, £1,123,688: in 1916,
£2,134,543, showing that £1,010,855 of profit
has been accumulated in 10 years. That is
more than the capital was 10 years ago.
True, there has been a little writing-up of
assets meantime; but the chances are that
they had been first written down.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- .Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., ’lO. .£6463 10 p.c.=£3446 £2Ol £2816 £8,536
Sept.,’lo.. 4424 10 ~.,2486 386 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £2450 .. 12,538
Mar., ’ll.. 6655 10 p.c.= 2876 1612 2167 14,705
Premiums on new shares, £2960 . . 17,665
Sept.,’ll.. 8151 1.0 p.c.— 3968 - 4183 21,848
Premiums on new shares, £4016 .. 25,864
Mar., '12.. 7241 10 p.c.= 5675 956 610 26,474
Sept.,’l2.. 7773 Nil 7773 34,247
Mar., ’13.. 7302 7»p.c.= 5117 - 2185 36.432
Sept.,’l3. 8653 74 ~ „ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar., ’l4 . -5305 74 „ .. 5248 1117 40,943
Sept., ’1 021 Nil 5021 45,964
Mar., ’15.. 5008 *6p.c. = 5397 42,575
Sept.,’ls.. 3655 5 „ „ 3499 156 42,731
Mar., ’16.. 6014 7 „ „ 4598 1116 43,847
Sept.,’l6.. 5936 7 „ „ 4908 1028 44,875
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
Business is keeping up fairly well, though
naturally it isn’t what it was before the big
cloud rolled over the world. In the winter
half of 1913 the gross profit was £36,101;
last half it was £26,018. Luckily it has
been possible to reduce exes., so a pretty
fair net profit is still shown —at least, it is a
pretty fair profit assuming that proper pro-
vision has been made for bad and doubtful
debts. Most of the capital is represented
by hire-purchase balances, and in such peril-
ous times as these they are not gilt-edged
securities. Still, the position has unques-
tionably improved of recent years
Liabilities.
Sept.,’ll. Sept.,’ls. Mar.,'l6. Sept.,’lfi.
Capital. . . . £BB,BOO £140,233 £140,233 £140,233
Sundry creditors 68,323 18,890 17,582 15,951
Assets.
Freeholds . . 17,220 Nil Nil Nil
Stock . . . • 52,716 51,421 58,631 58,552
Sundry debtors 106,514 146,535 140,81. 137,705
Plant, etc. .. 4,119 4,828 4,960 4,734
Cash and sundries 2,870 3,068 2,622 5,474
That reduction of sundry debtors indicates
that the bulk of the business on the books
is old, and the older the business the wider
the margin of safety, as a rule. Neverthe-
less. considering the size of the reserves and
the nature of the assets, the co.’s profit can’t
be regarded as satisfactory. Funds (capital
and reserves combined) have shown only a
fraction over 6 p.c. for the past year; and
in a business of this sort it isn’t enough.
* * * *
Public Trust Office of Maoriland. —
Nobody in Maoriland now thinks of this
ollice as a cub of the Socialistic tiger. It
has the goodwill of practically everybody;
and it is growing every year. The principal
executive officer is the Public Trustee, who
is subject to the directions of a Board con-
sisting of the Minister for Finance, the
Public Trustee himself, the Government
Insurance Commissioner, the Valuer-Gen-
eral, the Superintendent of State Advances
and two persons outside the Public Service
appointed by the Government. The func-
tions of the office are numerous: besides
acting as trustee in the ordinary way, on
appointment, it automatically takes control
of intestate estates and of various public
sinking funds, etc. And it may act for pri-
vate trustees, carrying out their written
instructions.
In relation to ordinary trusts it does one
or two things which the private trustee
doesn’t attempt. Thus it will pay a fixed
rate of interest on trust funds if that be
desired and will guarantee the principal—in
which case, of course, the Public Trustee
selects the investment. That really is no
more than life insurance cos. do. And this
no doubt has suggested a new* feature —the
granting of bonuses, after the life-insurance
manner. Section 61 of the M.L. Finance
Act of this year says :
Where the net profits of the Public Trust Office in
any year exceed the sum of £20,000, then the
Governor-in-Council may direct that the surplus profits
or such part thereof as he names shall be credited
pro rata as a bonus to each estate or account (other
than investment agencies) that received interest from
the common fund during that year and have not been
finally closed and distributed before the end of that
year.
For the past year the bonus, distributed as
'an accretion to the account of each person
who receives interest from the common
fund, amounts to 2s. in the £. That is to
say, if the Dominion has guaranteed a bene-
ficiary a rate of interest which gives him or
her £2OO, his or her account will be credited
with a further £2O.
The profit for the past year was £52,156.
made up as follows: Net profit as per P.
and L. account, £46,109; earnings of Assur-
ance and Reserve Fund, £5589; ditto of
Investment Fluctuation Fund, £458. The
total reserves, including these profits for the
year, were £302,369 ; but from that £20,000
or so will have to be deducted, being the
amount of the bonus referred to above. The
profit is all derived from the surplus earn-
ings of the trust funds whose principal and
interest are guaranteed. The revenue from
that source last year was £65,448; so that
actually on the ordinary operations of the
office there was a loss. Which is another
way of saying that the commission charges
for ordinary trustee business are under the
cost of doing the work. The reserved funds
are substantial; but, as before said, they
have not only to cover the usual risks which
a trustee takes, but also to guarantee the
return of invested principal where that pro-
vision of the law has been taken advantage
of by the testator. The value of estates in
hand is £13,598,744 (as against £7,358,947
in 1910) and the amount of the “capital
funds”—that is, the trust funds whose in-
tegrity and interest are guaranteed—is
£7,082,888 (as against £3,414,168 in 1910).
Port Swettenham Rubber Co., office in
Melbourne, plantations in the Federated
Malay States: —
Charged to Deficit.
June, Profit. Dividends. Development. £1465
1911.. £1,265 Nil £1463 200
Reserves.
1912.. 10,241 5 p.c. =£2875 1916 7166
1913.. 4,312 10 „ „ 5750 1819 5728
1914.. 1,047 Nil 641 6775
Law costs written off. £3455 .. 3320
1915.. 1,105 Nil 754 4425
1916.. 250 Nil 1441 4675
But those reserves are quite nominal, and
the profit for the past year may be realised
or it may not. If the whole truth were told
in the table —that is to say, if the accounts
gave the data for a complete story-— some*
where or other there would appear an item
“Loss by storm, £10,000,” or it may be more.
And even that wouldn’t reduce the figures
sufficiently. The co. got in at about the top
of the rubber boom, in 1910, and sold its first
year’s crop for 4s. 9d. per pound. Within four
years the market had crawled down the lad-
der about half-way; and the harvest, instead
of mounting higher, climbed down too. Then
came an adverse verdict .in the courts; and
after that a storm which left about 11,000
trees and destroyed 13,700. The co.’s local
advisers thereupon recommended the co. “to
buy another property if it. can raise the
money and if a good offer is made to sell
Swettenham estate.” This recommendation
was carried into effect during the past year
so far as the purchase of another plantation
is concerned. The new estate, known as the
Australasian, is 70 miles from the old one,
consists of 290 acres of four- and five-year-
old trees, and cost £15,500. The manager
thinks it is worth just under £17,000. Swet-
tenham, by the way, consists of 261 acres
with 11,000 trees in bearing and say 14,000
young stumps to replace those ruined by the
cyclone, and not fit for tapping for four
years. It stands in the books at £53,221.
Compare the two, and you get some idea of
the overvaluation of the Swettenham estate.
This means, of course, that, as things have
turned out, the co.’s share capital of £57,500
is too great. Perhaps £40.000 might be a
fair thing, including the £lO,OOO which is at
present borrowed money, raised to help pay
for the new estate.
Apart from that debt the co. owes £lBBl,
and it had cash and more or less liquid
assets totalling £1538 on June 30. However,
on working account a profit of £l7lO is
expected from the new estate this current
year and thereafter a steady improvement to
£6207 in 1920-1; and on the old estate there
should be £lOOO to the good this year, with a
small increase till 1920, and thereafter some-
thing substantial. This, of course, assumes
that a fair price will be maintained for rub-
ber. The estimate for the new estate is
based on two-and-fourpenny rubber this
year, with an allowance for shrinkage to
Is. lid. in 1920-1. Costs also are an im-
portant factor. Chinese and Tamil coolies
are employed, and it is assumed that they
are not going to change much. From these
figures deductions have to be made for man-
agement exes, and interest. Even so, how-
ever, and notwithstanding that so much of
the capital is blown away or has otherwise
disappeared, prospects are a lot better than
they were a year ago. Many of the people
who are interested in the Melbourne-owned
and successful Bukit Kubu are interested
also in this; and Bukit Kubu is giving the
new estate a hand.
# * * *
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd., boxmakers.
printers and carton makers (Sydney), who
began in 1910 with a goodwill or paper asset
of £5OOO, shown hereunder as a deficit: —-
Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. Reserves, licit.
1910 .. —■ £5OOO
Von f Premiums on new shares £32)
1911 ’• i £2750 10 p.c. = £1577 1173 J _
Premiums on new shares 38 3757
1912 .. 3418 10 p.c. = 1801 1617 2140
1913 .. 2668 8 „ „ 1445 1223 917
Premiums on new shares 250 06 <
Reserves.
1914 . . 2841 8 p.c. = 1445 1396 729
1915 . . 2856 8 „ „ 1685 1171 1900
1916 . . 6001 8 „ „ 1925 4076 5976
The accounts allege that the net profit for
the year was £3714. But, apart from that.
£2287 has been added to what was formerly
called the Machinery Depreciation Reserve.
Whether any provision for wear and tear
is made otherwise is not very clear, though
there are some signs of it. In any case, if
the true net profit was but the £3714 it is a
remarkably satisfactory performance, remem-
bering that the capital is only £24,068. To
start with, £5OOO of the capital was repre-
sented by goodwill. Now, after six years’
trading, and notwithstanding the payment
of an annual dividend of 8 p.c. or upwards,
the entire capital is represented by tangible
assets, and there is a very substantial sum
over. Further, the shareholders are risking
very little borrowed money : total liabilities,
including trade debts, are £13,490. And the
profit is all the more imposing because the
co. has over £15,000 in city property, exclu-
sive of the plant and machinery which that
property houses. The other assets are book
debts and stock. Altogether a very gratify
ing balance-sheet; and the success is all
the more cheerful because the co. is engaged
in manufacture. In addition to the ordi-
nary cardboard box business, the co. a
couple of years ago went in for the pro-
duction of corrugated paper sheets and fibre-
board ; and the directors report that this
department has justified itself. In view of
the scarcity of light timber, for which the
corrugated sheet is a substitute, it seems
likely to go on doing it.


The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
gtiwhmigf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works; Trafford Park. Manchester. England.
The Australian General Electric Co., corner Went-
worth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney; corner
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne, place
their services at the disposal of all those requiring;
information which will enable them to readily select
the most advantageous material used in the construc-
tion of overhead-trolley systems, and track return,
for electric haulage in mining plants. We here men-
tion a few of the devices in which the above company
specialise. Rail bonds, trolley-wire supports, sus-
pensions, clamping ears, mechanical splicing sleeves
strain insulators, turnbuckles, trolley frogs, drills’,
etc. All of this apparatus has been especially de-
signed and manufactured to meet every possible
condition of mining service. Write for particu-
lars.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per' cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d„ making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.— Advt. [2
* * * #
When considering the economy, there can be no
satisfactory pipe as cheap as Pioneer Wood Pipe.
The ideal pressure pipe, manufactured in all sizes
from 3 inches to 14 feet diameter. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited (Head Office), 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.; Port Adelaide,
S.A.—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street.
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.—Advt.'
* * * #
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt.
v£areßoanto
’FAIR BENEFIT*.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock,
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. GAVE, General Manager, N
263 George Street, Sydney,
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 ®
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 ®
HEAR OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Ray. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Officei 31 Budge Row k Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
CO
UJ
CO
LU
CO
I
LU
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Broken Hill Block 10, one of the
Barrier silver-lead-zinc propositions:— .
Profit. Divs.
Sept.,’o6 £49,625 £30,000
Mar., ’O7 61,945 55,000
Sept.,’o7 65,786 50,000
Mar.,’oB 12,256 30,000
Sept.,’oB 22,080 5,000
Mar., ’O9 39,284 10,000
Sept.,’o9 28,844 20,000
Mar., ’lO 3,422 20,000
Sept.,’lo 15,243 15,000
Mar., ’ll 28,991 10,000
Sept.,’ll 11,479 10,000
Loss.
Mar., ’l2 £8,851 £lO,OOO
Profit. Divs.
Sept., ’l2 36,049 10,000
Mar., ’l3 16,861 20,000
Sept., ’l3 37,481 20,000
Mar., ’l4 17,467 30,000
Loss.
Sept., ’l4 4,692 12,500
Mar., ’l5 16,846 Nil
Sept., ’l5 9,892 Nil
Mar., ’l6 4,107 Nil
Profit.
Sept., ’l6 13,854 5,000
It is possible to put it another way. The
directors, knowing that the end of this
Broken Hill mine is not very remote, have
been looking around for other properties, and
a couple of years ago got on to a show at
Misima, in the Louisade Archipelago, which
forms part of Papua, though it is about 120
miles east of Samarai. General-manager O.
B. Ward has been probing this ground, and
incidentally smashing his thigh and making
himself about the most popular man in New
Guinea parts; and to June 8, when it was
decided to exercise the option, he had spent
£11,200 on his explorations. This amount
is formally written off the half-year’s profit;
and with that done the total is reduced to
£2654. But previous figures relate to the
working of the Broken Hill mine; and the
intrusion of figures referring to the cost of
developing some other property would spoil
the comparison.
On the outbreak of the war Block 10
lost its market for concentrates, and the
mill was shut down on August 19,
1914. The co., being no longer of
first-rate importance, took no part in
the subsequent purchase of the Port Pirie
plant from the Broken Hill Prop, and
the formation of the Associated Smelters.
When, however, the metal markets moved
along, the directors, feeling that they couldn’t
afford to go on missing the ’bus, made a con-
tract with Associated Smelters; and the
mill resumed its job on May 8 this year.
Since then 34,914 tons of ore have been
treated. In view of (1) the high price of
lead and (2) the facility with which ore of
somewhat better than average grade was
taken out, in consequence of work done after
the mill was shut down, the profit is dis-
appointingly small. However, a bit more
may come in from surpluses on final settle-
ment. Credit appears to be taken for that
10 p.c. of the value which is held back by
the smelters when the first payment is made ;
but that first payment is made on the basis
of £25 lead and 2s. silver, and the metals
may realise more than that.
Looking to the future, big profits can only
be expected when there are booming markets.
The co. can never make big profits through
low costs. Ore extraction can never again
be cheap, because it is largely a question of
picking up small or comparatively small and
overlooked shoots and bodies; and that may
mean working through broken ground. No
estimate of ore reserves is now made. The
latest figure was 229,000 tons. But it is
wonderful how long life can be kept in these
big old mines by going back with the rake.
The directors think well enough of the future
to put up a flotation plant in conjunction
with Block 14, which is in the same class.
This will deal with current output of tail-
ings : Block 10’s old dumps went long ago.
One way and another, things will have to be
bad in the future if the co. can’t realise
profits averaging Bs. per ton of ore. That
will allow for a high mining charge. And
things will be equally disappointing if
300.000 tons of ore are not hauled from the
mine. That would mean £120,000 of divi-
dends.
Misima is to be thrown into a co. with
its neighbors. The latter properties are
owned by the St. Aignan’s and Misima Gold
Mines cos. The co. will be in 150.000 issued
shares, of which Block 10 will get 69,666
shares in return for the money it spent
(£11,200) and £30,000 to be put to working
capital. O. B. Ward reckons he has 102.000
tons of 395. ore blocked out already in the
old options, and can see “a profit of at least
£50,000 above legitimate working and de-
velopment costs.” Block 10 has plenty of
strength to do the financing. Its surplus of
liquid assets on Sept. 30 was £63,240.
* * * *
“Drummoyne’s” query :—-
Re Tooth’s. The ordinary dividend this half-year
(as last half) is reduced from 10 to 9 per cent. At
the same time a “reserve for equalisation of divi-
dends” amounting to £40,000 is shown. Last half-
year I fancy an appropriation was actually made to
this reserve. What is a “reserve for equalisation of
dividends” for, if not to maintain a dividend at a
certain figure when net profits in themselves might
not justify the payment ? Of course, the argument may
be that it stands against some very big decline in
profits; but the policy, on the face of it, looks
inconsistent.
Theoretically, at any rate, what Tooth’s
have done could be justified on the ground
that some specific thing has happened which
permanently reduces the profits by one-tenth
at least, that the 9 p.c. cliv. now puts the
same strain upon the co. as formerly 10 p.c.
did, and that an equalisation reserve is now
required, not to lift the dividend up to 10
p.c., but to maintain it at 9 p.c.
* * # ■*
Fi’oin a man in the wolfram business:—
The British Ministry of Munitions, acting through
the Federal authorities, has commandeered the entire
wolfram output of Australian mines. The price fixed
in September, 1915, was 555. per unit. The cables
of a few days ago stated that 00s. per unit was the
price paid by the Ministry in England. The price
paid by the Government agents in Sydney is 48s. Id.
per unit. The poor agent’s margin, then, is about £42
per ton to cover freight, commission, etc. Although
the price in New York is now 80s. per unit, up till
a few weeks ago the market had been operating for
many months around 2405. per unit. Even at the
present rates the Australian producer is being paid
about £l4O per ton less than the Americans. Our
mines have been operating for the past 12 months
at 48s. Id. per unit, or Is. 6d. per lb. of wolfram.
It was only last week that the cables announced that
the British Ministry of Munitions had fixed the price
of tungsten steel at ss. fid. per lb. of tungsten
content. That’s not a bad margin for the steel
people; and what a harvest they must have had
during the past 12 months! The companies operat-
ing on this Deepwater field produce about 120 tons
per annum, and 200 tons would be a safe estimate
if all the mines were working; but the 120 tons is
in danger of becoming zero if an equitable adjust-
ment is not soon forthcoming. At present, the
arrangement made by the Government simply
amounts to fleecing the working miner.
* * * *
“Waiting” : In case the wildest cat of the
jungle has not come under The Bulletin’s
notice, please let me say that yoif may buy
a description of it from the Government
Printer for ss. This description answers to
the name of “The Auditor-General’s report
on the Queensland State Government
finances to June, 1916.” No one has been
arrested yet, so comment will not be sub
judice.
* * * *
Mount Royal copper, Tottenham (N.S.W.),
has been half a lifetime waiting for the rail-
way to reduce smelting costs. With cheaper
coke and fluxes large quantities of ore can
now be treated ; it is reckoned—optimistically
perhaps—that normally 3 p.c. ore will pay.
During the past eight months something like
8000 tons have been smelted to produce 260
tons of copper, which spells an average of
3.25 p.c. The metal is sent to Port Kembla
in the form of matte, which, by the way, is
very useful for fluxing high grade silicious
ore. The management proposes to chew up
reserves by producing matte containing 70
tons of copper per month.
* * * *
History is repeating itself in the South
Broken Hill Board room. Years back P. C.
Howard was appointed to the Board to
represent the Adelaide shareholding- —a job
he still holds. With Molesworth Greene
dead, another vacancy has had to be filled.
The newcomer is Donald Fraser, friend of
the Collins House crowd and a pal of W. S.
Robinson. It isn’t everyone these days who
is dropped into a £5OO directorship like that
of the Associated Smelters and picks up
another almost as fat within the year.
“Edo” calls for a reform: —
Because numerous State batteries in Westralia have
been the means of producing a lot of gold, and in
some instances of making prospectors even rich, it
must not be concluded that the system is perfect.
The pioneer prospector who discovers more or less
rich ore very rarely puts up a mill for himself while
a public crushing plant is handy; and because he
has to pay fairly well for ore treatment, and because
he wants to boom his property, he almost invariably
takes out the rich patches only. Of course, the hope
is that a buyer will' appear. But the buyer is mostly
too stingy and the vendor too greedy, and no sale
eventuates. Meantime the rich patch-hunting goes
on, and the usual result is a rabbit warren which in
the end has to be abandoned, because the good stuff is
all extracted and the ground is in too dangerous a
condition to permit explorers to hunt for more rich
patches, while the poor rock left will not pay, there
being no crusher on the mine itself. From Southern
Cross up to Laverton and Wiluna and beyond much
good auriferous ground is so riddled and badly worked
as to be useless. In most cases abandoned leases would
require too much cash to straighten out workings or
they are in such a dangerous state that no sane man
would risk his life in inspecting theni. This bad
state of affairs could easily be Let the
Mines Department make.the charges low only so long
as a property is being properly opened up ; and let
the charges b,e increased when a property is. capable
of keeping its own plant going. -*£-
* *
Nullagine (W.A.) failed to get enough
water to start sluicing, and down came the
market with a heavy thud. The report of a
2in. shower momentarily broke the fall, but
the apparent helplessness of even this down-
pour to relieve the situation afterwards made
the drop swifter than before. Nothing, it is
stated, can now be done until more rain
falls, but if the ground is as dry as some old
hands represent, a flood will be needed to
keep the co. alive. There is no doubt about
the gold being there, but its profitable extrac-
tion is another matter.
Paynes Find Co. (W.A.) battles along.
Last half-year’s receipts were, as usual, out-
distanced by expenditure, and the debit of
Profit and loss now stands at £4542. At the
outset The Bulletin regretfully remarked
that it was hopeless to expect the show to
earn money for shareholders. The co.’s in-
debtedness to sundry creditors has now in-
creased to over £6OOO, and is still mounting.
Cash assets total £164, and machinery, plant,
etc., £2220; but in an outlandish place like
Paynes Find the auction value of plant is
barely more than that of old iron. The
co. should have given up the struggle long
ago.
Westralian Government has joined Morgan,
Lyell and other Eastern producers in a
copper deal and sold the whole of the State’s
electrolytic copper production for 1917 to
the British Munitions Department. The
quantity involved is about 60 tons a month,
and the price is fixed at £ll6 13s. 4d. per
ton.
*••***
For some time owners of low-grade shows
have been allowed special crushing rates at
the Westralian State mills, but they will
now have to send more ore along if the
privilege is to continue. Total weekly treat-
ment capacity of these batteries is between
4000 and 5000 tons, but not one-fiftli of this
is utilised, and for the most part of the year
the stamps are idle. Only 3700 tons of low-
grade ore, which forms the bulk of the stone '
treated, were put through the Government
mills during the first eight months of 1016,
and Minister for Mines Robinson says that
unless there is a big improvement the present
concession will not be retained.
* * * *
Edna Consolidated, Westonia (W.A.), is
straightening up its corkscrewed main shaft.
It is also dragging in calls to pay for a
battery. This plant is going up because
N. S. Stuckey and J. M. Aldridge, who
jointly run a show that could easily be
handled by one man,, reckon the co. has
15,000 tons of ore in sight. Most of this
dirt lies in the shallow ground, and though
it is reckoned payable, there isn’t the shadow
of a doubt that it’s patchy stuff. The main
prop of the show is still the new make cut
at 200 ft. in a south-west prospecting drive
shoved out from the west crosscut off the
main shaft. Officially the shoot is reckoned
the “most important and satisfactory dis-
covery yet made on the lease.” This has a
sweet sound, but is not half so alluring as
the statement that the reef “stands nearly
vertical, with a slight underlay to the south-
west.” The implication is that the formation
dips that way. It may be so, but the green-
stone is cutting across the lease almost as
flat as a pancake. With such an underlie the
Edna Central to the north looks like having
the call of the shoot if it opens up as any-
thing more than a bulge in a pretty badly
fractured bit of country. The cold truth is
that, although the Consolidated has put
£16.500 into its patch of gneissic schist,
nothing except big expectations has devel-
oped so far.
* * * *
When Jim Harris took over the New
Golden Fleece, Bendigo, he spent a month
checking values before saying whether the
mine had a chance. The claim is almost
out in No Man’s Land, and it has stagnated
since the racketty days of its youth. Quartz
is in plenty, especially at 400 ft., where there
is one make of 30ft.; but it shows how much
road metal and how little gold can go to
the cubic yard. Still, nice carbonaceous
slates are associated with the spurs near
the fault, so there is something to cling to
in that quarter. There is a run of spurs
at 600 ft. that has provided enough gold to
justify further hunting in the locality at
750 ft.; and the Comet reef, if provided with
nothing much else, has more than the aver-
age of blende and galena. In these circum-
stances Harris has hope, but declines to talk
about a prosperous future. It is a long shot
—no more.
* * * *
Moline’s No. 9 run at Cock’s Pioneer,
Eldorado (Vic.), gave only 7d, a yard. Now
he is back to Is. sd. dirt with No. 10. The
last three runs panned out thus: —
No. 8. No. 9. No. 10.
Cub. yds. sluiced .. 74,000 120,000 90,000
Gold—oz 566 570 1,215
Tin Oxide —tons .. 8 9] 15
Taking gold at £4 per oz. and tin oxide at
£lOO per ton, the gross value of No. 10 run
is £6360; and if costs were kept down at
8d (though the floods may have something
to say on that point) a net profit of over
£3OOO would remain. The improvement
shows what can happen at Cock’s Pioneer.
* * * *
Star of the West, Kevington (Vic.), is
small potatoes compared with what it was
when James Mackay and Marriott first fast-
ened on to it. Between 40,0000 z. and 50,0000 z.
gold were got out of the Star shoot before
obscurity came for the last year or two. No
amount of tootling has charmed the necessary
cash from shareholders to sink into more
settled country. Still Jim Mackay isn’t
throwing up the sponge, and as the country
hasn’t been more than scratched he may get
the old claim on to its legs again, although
at present it’s about as groggy as the general
run of Victorian mountain shows.
* * * *
New Minnie Moxham (N.Q.) has had its
dam replenished by a fall of rain, and the
mill is to be given another run. No. 2 level
(210 ft.) has been driven to 152 ft., and for
the last few feet there has been a strong reef
2ft. wide carrying visible gold. So far there
have been no deep gold-mines in N. Queens-
land ; even the Tyrconnel, on the Hodgkin-
son, enriched its first owners from shallow
levels above 300 ft. vertical. Copper and tin
mines, too, after a dazzling record from
shallow levels, have become very uncertain
propositions as depth increased. Even the
old Vulcan, which got payable tin below
1000 ft., isn’t a good exception, for it is
making a call.
Ba.vley’s Reward, Coolgardie, is not done
yet. Recently two old prospectors struck ore
in what is believed to be a continuation of
the shoot of gold from which the late Arthur
Bayley and his mate got rich returns. So
far, 23 tons have been put through the State
mill for nearly 4500 z.
* * *
Hans Irvine has made a start on his Trip-
licate option at Tuckabianna, near Cue
(W.A.). Some Italians found the lode, which
is big and said to be rich, though a 70-ton
crushing treated by the vendors before hand-
ing over to Irvine yielded only 40oz. over
the plates.
♦ * * *
Tasmanian Government Geologist Twelve-
trees has submitted a preliminary report on
the asbestos deposits at Anderson’s Creek.
The serpentine belt in which the asbestos
occurs is about two to three'miles west of
Beaconsfield, and extends from one and a
quarter to two miles in length by about a
mile wide. The Department has been asked
to assist prospecting, and if satisfactory to
subsidise the erection of a fibering plant -uni
also offer a bonus on the initial output. At
present,” says Twelvetrees, “the prospecting
work appears to be just on the border
between payable and unpayable results; it
would require only a slightly greater amount
of success to tip the balance.”


mmm
', w#H
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
HOW I SAVED MY HAIR.
“My hair was thin, short, dry and brittle.
Every time I combed or brushed it large
quantities came out, and I had begun to
fear that soon I should be entirely bald. A
specialist whom I consulted said mine was
a particularly bad case of dandruff —so bad
that he knew of only one thing which he
could hope would overcome the trouble and
restore my scant tresses to their former
luxuriance and beauty. He told me to get
my chemist to prepare a lotion composed of
three ounces of bay rum, one ounce lavona
de composee and quarter-dram menthol
crystals, and to rub this into the scalp twice
a day with the finger-tips. I was sceptical,
but did as I was told. To my delighted
astonishment I soon noticed that my hair
had stopped falling out, and in a few weeks
my head was covered with a new growth of
downy hair. I continued the use of the
lotion until I possessed a head of hair, all
my own, that is the wonder of all my
friends. My specialist says he has known
of many cases similar to mine, and in every
instance the results have been truly mar-
vellous. He says this is the greatest hair-
growing formula ever known. It has done
so. much for me that I hope you will publish
this for the benefit of those who want to
save their hair.”—R.C.E.— Advt.
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Model and Sporting Hats, Blouses, etc.
FACIAL, SCALP, SCIENTIFIC SPECIALIST.
BODY EXPERT MASSEUSE.
Twenty years European
equipped, High-class Rooms,
less skin, a healthy scalp,
an active body, free from
Treatments and Massage.
Postal Practice.
Hospitals. Eleetrically-
You can possess fault-
growing abundant hair,
pain, by our Scientific
Correspondence invited.
Tel. 208.
SISTERS VIMARD,
Macquarie Chambers, 153 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney. November 13, 1916.
My Dear Art.ni. —
“On a visit to Melbourne” is the social
legend which politely hints that something
or other is going on in the Peacock’s garden.
Potts Point and Darling Point are bearing
u.p against the exodus to the overflowing
Cup. A great peace broods everywhere ex-
cept over coal and politics, and the G.-G.
took a week’s extension of his refuge here
from the odds in Melbourne.
The G.-G. Fairguson caught the express to
Melbourne on Sabbath night, but broke the
journey at Albury. Military and other
dongs there were to hold him till the follow-
ing morn.
Mrs. Wade is wondering how she’ll like
London. For it's likely to come off. If
father’s health or the fact that two into one
won’t go makes the trip necessary, we shall
soon hear more about the splendor of the
twins. Mother is a well-meaning little
woman, and the duchesses might be more im-
pressed if her manners were a trifle more
amiable.
There’s a virile Scotchman over here from
British East Africa —one M. A. McGregor,
head of a big experimental farm. He’s a
buyer with a bag of gold for good stud cattle
and beasts of burden. The McGregor put in
a few days at Hill View with the Stricklands,
and is glowing with the tale of life near
the jungle. He says the climate is good, and
before the war money was plentiful. British
East Africa used to be the place where mil-
lionaires —in fashionable attire —stalk< d
lions, tigers and big game, and lady hunt-
resses collected elephants’ teeth and pan-
thers’ claws for their dressing-tables. Now
there’s big-game shooting in France, and the
elephants take their morning bath unmo-
lested.
After all, his Ex. did rush up to Newcastle
to open the Charities Carnival. Then he
hurried home from the coal dust to keep his
eye on the Cabinet and finally supply the
newspapers with new headlines.
The Women’s Sketch Club wisely refrained
from a plunge in frames, remembering that
this is war-time and art patrons are slow
to bite. Purchasers took their wares away
in brown paper, and saw to the glazing them-
selves. The show is in the Education gal-
leries. Calendars, good, bad and worse,
make a lug bid for the casual half-crown.
In the more ambitious realm of unframed
impressions in water-colors, Laura Booth and
Mrs. F. W. Parsons and Mrs. Hedley Par-
sons dominate the landscape department.
The two Parsons ladies are unrelated, though
they are both facile brushwomen. Betty
Solomons, a promising art student, con-
tributes some virile portrait sketches—nota-
bly a youthful siren with red hair flaming
down her back.
When the Arabia followed two other
P. and O. steamers to the bottom, battalion
dames began to hurriedly look up dates.
Most of the Christmas stuff for our soldiers
went, round the Cape—thanks be! But
there’s an appalling lot of Christmas packets
and letters lying at the bottom of the sea in
mailbags. When will the enemy get all he
is looking for? On the Arabia went the
widow of the late James Graham, M.D., a
former legislator here. Mrs. James was a
sister at Prince Alfred Hospital when the
Scotchman proposed. If there were any
hysterics when the torpedo came this cap-
able woman would promptly take charge- of
the fuss.
Ashfield is very pleased with itself. Mrs.
Hammond, its mayoress, has just handed over
to the Edith Cavell Memorial Committee
nearly £6OO. The plum fell from a recent
fete in the suburban town hall. Somewhere
about £3OO is likely to be counted to the good
from a concert organised since, in Sydney, by
Mrs. Verbrugghen. So there’s going to be
corn in more places than Egypt.
.Mrs. George Black is on her wav back
to Australia, after a health trip to the
other side.
Brigadier-General Jack Antill sends a
coo-ee from France, where he has a com-
mand. Looking back on the August fighting
in Egypt—the only chance the Light Horse
had as mounted troopers—he says :
The Turks attacked with 18,000 men, and it’s
hard to see what they were after. The tough fight
was on the night of August 4 —the second anniversary
of the war —when the Ist and 2nd Light Horse bri-
gades, assisted by the M.L. Mounted Rifles, drove off
Johnny Turk. Von Cress, the German Commander in
Chief, then bolted with his staff, leaving Hanoi Bey
to get out as best he could. Then the Brd Light
Horse and the Maorilanders gave chase, and Johnny-
got a dusting in three battles on the edge of the
desert. The Fez fought well, as he always does.
Colonel Dudley White is being transferred
from the old Barracks at Paddington to
France. Mrs. White, who goes also to do
some war work thereabouts, was before mar-
riage one of the handsome Yaldwyns of
Queensland. Her two sisters. Mrs. Fred and
Mrs. Bucldand Taylor, have been in the Fog
for years.
Before Mrs. White left the usual Pekoe
brew was handed round by Mrs. Stuart
Thompson at the Australia. Maybe some-
where in France her husband-colonel will
meet a brother of his who has a big com-
mand at the Front.
One of the frocks that make the flapper
want to put her hair up in a bun and
qualify for the matrimonial stakes went to
old St. James’s altar last week. The girl
inside this loveliness —diaphanous white
georgette under a cloud-like veil of honiton —
was Myee Garland. The lucky man was
M. J. Steel, of Aslifield. Diamonds, his
token of devotion, glistened in the lacy
corsage.
The Queen Victoria Club, in the Chamber
of Commerce Building, is going to sell
onions and parsnips and fat cakes of butter
on November 20. The cash goes to the
Voluntary Workers’ Fund.
The gallant Andre
de Beauvivier, now
a prisoner of war
i n Germany, i s
looking at you in
this picture. Be-
fore the war he
was one of the most
popular of the
French woolbuyers
who make Sydney
their headquarters.
Here he represented
the Rheims firm of
Dreyfus and Modi,
and lived at Turra-
murra when the
wool season was
hibernating. In the
act of returning to
Australia via the
Cape when the Hun sprang at the French
throat, Beauvivier dropped off at a neutral
port and rushed back to offer his services to
his country. For two years he has been in
the firing-line. Enlisting in 1914, he won a
commission on the battlefield, was mentioned
in despatches, and later decorated with the
Croix de Guerre. In the recent struggle at
Verdun he was one of a handful of French-
men taken prisoners when the rest of their
company had been annihilated. Captain de
Beauvivier has been recommended for the
Legion of Honor —and will no doubt get it if
the Dachshund lets his prisoners live to see
the Dove flap its wings.
That tireless streak of energy, Mrs. Boult,
is rounding up recruits to give a cheer-o to
the kiddies of soldiers. Of course it’s for
the Christmas stocking. Last year, if you
remember, the organiser’s “Joan of Arc”
was the matinee bait, and a swarm of
youngsters got away, after the performance,
with an armful of toys. This year Mrs.
Boult, who throws playlets together as
lightly as Alphonse tosses an omelette, gives
“The Buckle of his Shoe” for the cause at a
matinee on December 16.
The northern suburbs, with hard-pressed
hospitals to help, went on a carnival spree
last week. The chief bosses were big A. C.
Cocks, M.L.A., Tom Carlton (who organised
the show for love), and Alderman Cowdroy.
North Sydney and Mater Miserieordim hos-
pitals are patiently waiting for the cash to
be counted. Saturday’s finale was a proces-
sion trimmed with trade advts. and presided
over by a queen (Mrs. Lincoln Jones), who
out-gemmed her Majesty of Sheba.
One of Sydney’s beautiful homes, on the
green hat of Point Piper, had a big garden
fete on Saturday afternoon —by the grace of
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Binnie. The idea was
to put new household linen in the School of
Industry cupboards. This survival of old
Sydney now tends the small orphan girl at
Petersham. Years ago it used to be at
Darlinghurst, where the Hospice for the
Dying now stands.
The old School of Industry was started
by Mrs. Darling. She was the wife of that
early N. S. Wales Governor to whom Sydney
gave such an enthusiastic farewell, citizens
cutting steaks from an ox roasted in the
Wentworth grounds to show their joy at
his departure. Mrs. Darling’s scheme worked
fairly well in the primitive days when young
girls could be trained as domestic servants.
They wore lugubrious uniforms of the drab
winsey which society then considered helpful
to the morals of the young person. The
other afternoon bright-faced youngsters in
Australian blue frocks grinned cheerfully
under wide sailor hats as a sport named
Kendall gave them the word “go” down a
slithering wooden slide on the Binnio lawn.
These are the School of Industry kiddies
modern style. General Finn and his lady
joined the party—which was mostly young
and hilarious —and daughter Kathleen pre-
sided over icecreams. Mrs. Clibborn, Mrs.
Scott and Mrs. Garland were amongst the
stallholders. A hundred pounds or more
goes into the lockers as a result.
Here is a remarkable instance of feminine
sagacity as displayed-by the new girl. There
was a birthday pending, and unusual efforts
were put forth to celebrate the occasion. An
artist assisted the ladies of the home circle
in decorating the'dining-room with charming
paper-flowers. The result might have put
Solomon in all his glory into the shade. The
morning of the great day arrived, and the
new girl was up bright and early to push
things along. Then the family arose, and
sudden lamentation filled the house. The
decorations hung in grotesque dribbles of
mush. The new girl, desiring to keep every-
thing fresh and dewy, had sprinkled the
paper-flowers, with a copious spray.
The international rumpus has shaken up
the Sydneysiders’ desire to converse in
foreign tongues. Hitherto we have allowed
the inevitable German clerk to slip into any
well-paid billet which had a big Continental
correspondence. Hence the present enthusi-
asm for a blend of French conversation. For
some months A. C. Aucher, 8.A., lias been
chatting to our girls on French literature.
At a recent meeting he took the chair, while
others talked of the right way to extend this
education. Asa result delegates will give a
profound bow to the Alliance Frangaise and
see what they can suggest.
Captain J. F. de Meyrick, formerly of
Moss Vale and now in khaki, has put the
usual question to Constance, a. daughter of
George Broughton, of Carey Bay, Toronto.
Philip Wilson, the elegant young man who
is on the teaching staff of the Conserva-
torium, gave a highbrow song recital in the
early spring of last week. A top-dressing
of our Best People, supplemented by the
Hairbows Department, straggled in to sit at
the tall tenor's feet. Philip has an aca-
demic style, too cold for common use, and
pours out his honeyed tones with more re-
straint than the multitude approves. Still,
he pleased in groups of old Italian, French
and new Australian songs. The first were
dug out of the cupboards of the long past—-
the quaint “Amarilli” had her first birthday
in the end of the sixteenth century. Fiddler
W. J. Coad and pianist Frank Hutchens
assisted.
On Saturday, December 2, there’s to be
a kiddies’ party at Beulah, Beaconsfield-
parade, Lindfield, in aid of the Army Service
Corps’ Comforts Fund. A Christmas tree
is the star turn.
It is not all as unpleasant in France as
the Coldfoot Guards thought it might be.
One of The Bulletin’s kittens, writing
from headquarters of an artillery brigade,
describes their new billet. A two-storey
house; used to be a chateau. Big. airy
rooms; fireplaces; windows; furniture (you
can see his eyes getting bigger and bigger) :
hot water; and (here he bursts into printed
capitals) padded satin walls!
Talking about kittens, another artillery
boy, who was among the field-guns for 22
continuous hours in a recent push, tells me
of a little companion they had. A kitten,
taken possession of by the animal-loving
Billjims at a farmhouse-billet, was made at
home in the gunpits, and soon settled down
to its new life. It isn’t alarmed by the
firing, and actually crawled about among the
guns during the Push, when each throat
coughed a couple of shots a minute for hours
at a stretch, and all the furies were raging
above and around.
When the war
broke on Belgium
singers, artists and
musicians of every
tonnage rushed to
the defence of their
little country.
Amongst the sing-
ers was Albert
Goossens, now on
the staff of Sydney
C o nservatorium.
Discharged honor-
ably after their
little .country had
been trodden* flat,
the operatic star
and others of his
kind came this way
with a band of
high-class orches-
tral performers. Then Verbrugghen took
charge of the Conservatorium and pounced
on Goossens as a teacher of singing. One of
the most amiable and unselfish members of
the profession, the Belgian, whose photo I
send you, has been always eager to do his bit
at patriotic shows. Within an hour of get-
ting' news of his brother’s death, in action,
he sang the “Marseillaise” in our Town Hall
rather than upset the programme. Goossens,
who used to warble in grand opera in
Brussels, holds a sheaf of prizes. Bruges
Conservatorium handed him its highest
honor. In Brussels he won four. This week-
end he gives a concert in the Conservatorium.
with Yvonne Charvin at the piano.
If you want to see a pathetic little pro-
cession, soldier-wives with the youngsters
clutching mother’s skirts, go to 2(j Carring-
ton-street, Wynyard Square. Don’t knock.
Go through the passage and push the back
door open. Shelves with a swiftly-lessening
stock of fruit and vegetables, eggs, jam, etc.,
as the day goes on supply the dependents of
men in the firing-line with some of the little
luxuries of life. This is R. M. Pontey’s
scheme, which is now getting into low water
for lack of funds. Only the Casino branch
of the Red Cross has stuck to this effort.
The Absent-Minded Beggar has left so many
things behind him that 700 families and over
2000 youngsters are on the depot’s books
for heip. Yet, if the public doesn’t come to
the rescue, 12 months’ good deeds must end.
Sister Florence Spalding, the petite and
capable Nightingale who did line work
amongst our wounded, is now Mrs. Leslie
Fidler, of Gordon. The wedding-breakfast
was at the Pacific, Manly, and the knot was
tied in the local kirk. The Royal Red Cross
decoration and “Mentioned in despatches”
are items in the trousseau Sister Flo takes
to her new home.
From Maoriland comes news of the
engagement of Kitty Sinclair Thompson to
Major White, of somewhere in England.
Both Miss Thompson’s brothers enlisted
from S. Canterbury and both were killed in
the awful strife. Banker Sinclair Thompson
and family then migrated to the Fog. Miss
Kitty excels as a chauffeur and at other
times in a hockey hustle. Her mother was
one of the gilded Goulds of Christchurch.
The headmistress is beginning to sit up.
and Miss Badham is president of a new
association. She is the daughter of a former
Sydney ’Varsity don, and drank deep
draughts of Greek at her learned father’s
knee. Only sclioolmarms outside the Govern-
ment area will be eligible for membership.
At the back of this new growth there’s a
wish to make headmistresses 'of important
girls’ schools more articulate. For instance,
many of the more experienced dames see
danger in the large masses of instruction
which the State is pressing down the throats
of juveniles who have scarcely a bowing
acquaintance with English.
One of the old Windsor family of Prim-
rose, the tall, fair-liaired Irene, daughter
of the late William, was wed to a Corowa
man the other evening. He is Oliver
Ritchie, and he led Irene down St. James’s
aisle to suitable music. The bridal finery
was draped in the delicate fantasy of old
rose point-lace, and thei'e was the usual
blush pink shimmer under the gossamer
drapery. Bridesmaiden Vera Henderson
attended to the long court train that swishiM
over the red carpet.
The Kangaroo has never felt any bitterness
against the usually fair-fighting Turk. An
Australian soldier, writing from Alexandria,
says he got permission from the Commis-
sioner, Sir Henry McMahon, to take a trip
to “the Cage,” where the prisoners are:—
I took Hamil for an outing, and also Nouri Bey,
an Arab commander. The former, I found, is a
cultivated Turkish gentleman and a very smart man.
He had been educated in Germany, and had besides
spent four years there before the war—-while the plot
was thickening.... He expressed the greatest surprise
and admiration for the mobility of the Australian
Light Horse.
Young Rex Buckland, of N. S. Wales, and
Urquhart and Robertson, of Victoria, were
killed in the fight with Hamil.
State-school women teachers meet together
here and there. On Saturday evening they
clattered into the new Education Gallery,
where Miss Soubeiran dilated on her tw r o pet
themes, Frenchwomen in war time and the
doings of the French League in Macdonell
House. Miss Gurney knitted vigorously while
her colleague discoursed on the wonderful
spirit of modern France. No one doubts it.
In profound admiration, and by favor of
the British navy, Australian school kiddies
have sent about 30,000 garments to the
orphans of Jean and Pierre.
It looks as if the war has crushed the
crinoline. It was very nearly, but not quite,
ready (like the rest of us) about two years
ago. The New Yorkers are wearing nar-
rower skirts in their present wintry weather.
And the imitation mummy is now the lay
figure _on which the man-dressmaker is
swathing draperies like bandages. An Aus-
tralian abroad writes of a black satin gown
encrusted with heavy embroidery that would
have suited Mrs. Pharaoh I. if that mystic
was as willow wand as we imagine. So
there’s no saying whether that old tube
tailor-built skirt of yours won’t be the
latest cut in autumn, 1917.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS, SILVERSMITHS.
WEDDING PRESENTS.
USEFUI—INEXPENSIVE.
SELECTIONS
SENT ON
APPROVAL.
. : _= HARDY BRO* L T ? =
. _ fc - --> •-■ — a -
w
Six Afternoon Teaspoons and Tongs, in the
Best Quality Silver Plate, in Case.
15/-
FIVE PER
CENT. CASH
DISCOUNT.
Twelve Afternoon Teaspoons and Tongs, in the
Best Quality Silver Plate, in Case.
£1 3 0.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W
You Can Take ANYTHING
with AN ENSIGN REFLEX.
m
There are practically no limitations to the
scope of an Ensign Reflex. You can take
anything with it-—a portrait, a landscape, an
interior, a fast-moving object—all will be
faithfully reproduced by it. Every amateur
photographer should possess one —and
EVERY BUSINESS MAN,
whether he is in business in a shop, in a
factory or on the land, should possess one,
as, apart from the pleasure that is to be
obtained in taking photos of your friends or
of pleasant scenes, etc., the camera can be
used in your business to show what you
are selling. No matter what it is—-a house
or a horse, a piano or produce—you’ll find
that you will sell it better and quicker if
you can show a photo of it.
The Ensign Reflex Camera is fitted with a Lens of the highest grade
—a Cooke-Luxor Anastigmat, working at F/4.5 aperture, which
yields images of extreme brilliance and splendid definition, the large
aperture enabling fast-moving objects to be taken with a short
exposure. The Camera Body is made of well-seasoned wood, and is
exceptionally strong, the joints being tongued, grooved and screwed,
the covering being in fine-grained leather.
Price, complete with three Metal Dark Slides:
Quarter=plate size, 2% x 4J, £l2/7/6.
Call and let us show you one of these fine models —if you live out of
town send for illustrated catalogue.
A Full Range of other Cameras, for Films or Plates, in all
sizes, from 5/- each.
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS.
A large assortment of Artists’ Materials of every description,
including Wiiasor and Newton’s Oil and Water Colors, Drawing
Papers, Boards and Canvas, Brushes, Sketch Books, Crayons,
etc., suitable for all requirements.
UP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
kO
a
EVERY NIGHT A DELIGHT
IF YOU OWN A
PIANOLA PIANO
Mothers and Fathers, what are you doing to
provide wholesome recreation in your home for
your sons and daughters and their friends?
Why not instal a Pianola Piano in
your home, and keep the young people
with you and enjoy their company ?
BUT BE CERTAIN YOU PURCHASE
THE GENUINE
PIANOLA PIANO
which is only obtainable in the following pianos
STEINWAY, STECK, STROUD,
AEOLIAN, WEBER.
You needn’t wait until you can pay
cash —we will accept a deposit as low
as £lO, and the balance in easy month ty
payments, and take your old piano at
a handsome allowance.
WRITE IS FOR CATALOG and PRICE LIST.
TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY,—
Please send me catalog and price list of
PIANOLA. PIANOS, showing how I can
purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can male on
my present piano, which is a
bought about
Name
Address
1 £ Pianola Company Pty.Ltd.
384 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE
and ADELAIDE.


Soldiers’ R eqttisites
:: at Farmer’s ::
Farmer's specialise in serviceable gifts for Soldiers
to take on active service—suitable gifts from the
points of economy of space and economy of price.
FARMER’S CHAMOIS LEATHER VESTS have
proved a boon to thousands of our boys in the
trenches —each Vest is faithfully made and finished
in Farmer’s best style:
Wool-lined, 27/6 and ,35/- (vermin-proof).
KNIFE, FORK and SPOON, strong, reliable make,
aluminium handle. Price .... 7/6
FARMER’S SAFETY RAZOR, complete with blades
in case, splendid gift. Price 7/6
SILVER MATCHBOXES, plain designs. Prices:
7/6 and 8/6. Striped, 4/6 to 12/6.
FARMER'S
Pitt, Market
■and
George Streets,
SYDNEY
m
VARICOSE VEINS,
WEAK LEGS AND JOINTS.
. THE VAROX SUPPORT is an En-
tirely New Method of dealing with Varicose
Veins and any Leg Weakness. Instant
Relief is obtained, together with Perfect
Ease and Comfort.
s \r\U •,
;w>-r ;i
gfd
fgd
Catalogue and Measurement Form Posted
Free on Application,
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
Returned disabled soldiers.
Single Men with Thorough Farm
Training who are disabled in upper body
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Overseers in Solomon Islands by writ-
ing to ISLAND INSPECTOR,
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
1 N re the Estate and Will of JOHN MALCOLMSON
1 late of Temuka, Canterbury, New Zealand, Con-
tractor, deceased.
JAMES MALCOLMSON, native of Dechomet, County
Down, Ireland, brother of the abovenamed deceased
(whose address is to the undermentioned trustees
unknown, but who is supposed to have come to
Queensland some time before 1870), or his child or
children or his executors, administrators or repre-
sentatives or creditors is or are hereby required pur-
suant to an order of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand made on the 30th day of August, 1916, to
send in his, her or their claims forthwith' in connec-
tion with or against the share of the said James
Malcolmson in the Estate and under the will of the
abovenamed John Malcolmson deceased to JOHN
McRITCHIE MARTIN and DAVID BRADFORD, care
of Raymond Raymond & Campbell, Solicitors, Timaru,
New Zealand. If no claim is made within three
months of the last miblication of this advertisement
the said trustees will distribute the said estate as it
the said James Malcolmson had died unmarried betoie
the said John Malcolmson.
Dated at Timaru this 31st day of August, 1 D>.
JOHN McRITOHIE MARTIN,
DAVID BRADFORD,
Trustees of the said estate and under the will of the
said John Malcolmson,
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, November 13, 1916.
My Dear Yaurie, —
Cup Day arrived, smiling but steamy, on
Saturday. The sun peered through the
heavy moisture like an overdue cook, and the
lawn felt like a hothouse full of new blooms.
The dresses did come to light, too. Mrs.
Waters, from Sydney, looked like an ice-
cream in white ninon and pink tucks. The
Mt. Gambier Clai'kes floated in chiffon. One
was champagne-colored and tucked crosswise.
Roma Clarke bid for publicity with dappled
shoes and generous glimpses of fawn-silk
legs. Squatter Lewis’s two daughters from
Adelaide, clad in sporty linen duds, got every
ounce of enjoyment out of the day and played
about with Miss O’Loughlin, daughter of a
South Australian M.P. Sam McGullagh, just
returned from Red Crossing, looked pale and
bored. Mrs. Trautwein, whose husband owns
Quinologist, explained that the animal must
win the Cup, as they had a fortune on its
back. She was a lai’ge and striking episode
in bright pink silk. Mrs. Mills walked the
lawn after Sasanof’s win with her black
Spanish veil hanging dejectedly from a black
hatpin and a doleful expression on her coun-
tenance. One gets into such a habit of
winning, you know. Her friend Mrs. Widdis
accompanied her. She was moi'e cheerful
and was comfortably frocked in white.
General Sellheim was the guest of the
stewards. He wore khaki and an abstracted
aii% and his wife white crepe de chine and a
lovely hat of black, white and gold. General
Williams was inconspicuous in mufti with a
blazing lilac tie, and Mrs. Williams Wore
shot gold-brown silk.
Sam Hordern wore a broader smile even
than usual when his blue-and-gold colors
came home aboard Pleasant Moments in the
November Nursei’y. The Bungowanah Power
chief took his win cheerfully. He looked
bluff and well in short-cropped grey hair and
blue serge. Lesley Madden terraced her
black cloth gown with rows and rows of
coster buttons. No Governors decorated the
vice-regal pen, but it was not left tenant-
less. Lesley sat there with three fi’iends.
Mrs. Davis, in a fluffy mixture of blue and
filmy black, went out with her poet-com-
poser brotlier, Boanas. The Maoriland
Coopers wei’e in evidence and rejoiced patri-
otically over Sasanof’s win.
Mrs. Connolly wore the trickiest gown of
navy all smocked round her slender waist
and hitched together with little blue buckles
and ribbons. Mrs. Barry Thompson wore
the loveliest champagne stockings and other
things to match. Tom Whyte, of Deniliquin
and Cliveden Flats, motored out with his
little wife —a dainty vision in buff color and
brown. Mrs. Russell Gabb mourned the
defeat of Londonderry in navy.
The rain clouds seemed to be massing for
an attack just as the Cup was to be
run; but they restrained their fury and
held off until the last i*ace. As the
last winner passed the post the rain came
down like a grey curtain on the dressed and
the undi’essed, ruining chiffons and frail
hats; and pelting on the devoted heads of
men herding their chattering women towards
the motor paddock. Then there was a
rush! Ci’owds shoved and clamored at the
cloakrooms and the motor paddock looked
like the flight from Antwerp. At this
dreary stage Mrs. Leslie Stuart revelled in
the smartness of a serviceable flannel suit
with coon stripes of blue and white. A
Cromwellian round white felt hat sat securely
on her head. Mrs. Geoff. Syme in white
chiffon was under a tiny parasol like a rare
china saucer. Mrs. Campbell, her race com-
panion, seemed happy inside a big shower-
proof race coat.
As any sport will tell you, Thursday and
Friday were good “drying days.” Dry-
ing days always interest washerladies, but
in uncertain weather a racehorse-owner or
a cricketer can be just as fussy as any old
hired dame with a basket of clothes. Eaimest
backers spent their time in studying the
flanks of prospective Cup horses. They
reckoned that the winner would have to
possess a heavy back understanding to lift
itself out of the mud and throw itself for-
wards towards victory.
Hennessy, our chronic Mayor, gave the
usual yearly dinnei’, and his lady asked the
customary feminine bunch to coffee and
claret cup upstairs till it was time to listen
to the speeches from the balconies. Hughes
was to speak, and as everyone hopes to
hear him say something thrilling some day,
invitations were rushed. Women who came
early were shooed away from the balcony
doors when the lions were taking soup. The
Mayoress and Mrs. Hughes received the
guests in the blue-and-gold boudoir suite
that was fitted up for the Hennessy dame
ever so long ago. No other Mayoress has
yet had a chance to queen it there. Mrs.
Hughes was in lettuce green satin, cut very
low. She covered her shoulders with a
green ninon coat until she reached the bal-
cony. There the plush balcony-edge gave
the usual bath-tub effect. Mrs. Pearce was
muffled almost to the ears in black tulle.
Lesley Madden, l-epx-esenting mamma, who
is still a.n invalid, came along in a rising-
sun of jet wrapped tightly l-ound her plump
figure and a flare of glacd skirts below. She
bound her iron-grey locks in a chain of
plum-sized pieces of jet. and remarked that
she “came to hear Hughes and dad speak.”
Dad was below in the banqueting hall,
resplendent in gold lace, black broadcloth
and decorations. The Best dame wore a
deliciously cut gown of black. Alfred
Deakin’s sister and Mrs. Ivy Deakin-
Brookes were together. State Commandant
Williams’s wife was in black, and her hus-
band wore khaki and spectacles. Mrs.
Mclnerney appeared in a debutante sort of
dress made of white tulle and blue ribbons.
Mrs. Henry Stead favored the pale blue of
flapper blossoms. Alderman Jeffries’s
daughter paraded the balcony in Mechlin
lace-flounces and gold shoes. Mrs. Fred
Eggleston, in a purple sash, gazed admiringly
at her barrister-husband dining below in a
private’s khaki. The High Court Isaacs
family sat in lovely clothes.
There were heaps of women, and they
crowded the large Council Rooms, where food
was spread and the flowing claret-cup bowl
went round. At a signal from downstairs
they rose like a flock of parrots and flew.
At the doorway there was a sudden hold-up,
and the massed circus started to fret
and plead not to be pushed over the balus-
trades. “Mrs. Pearce! Where is Mrs.
Pearce?” wailed the halted advance guax-d.
The holy oi’der of precedence forbade the
mob to move until the very small lady was
extracted from the avalanche of femininity.
When they were all in their places the
gallant male ci’eatures drank a toast to them
and bowed with courtly grace. Then the
Gaud Mayor rose in his might and his
l’abbit-skin and made a flowery speech. Pre-
mier Peacock, who has turned snow-white in
a single session, bellowed out another speech,
and Alderman Crichton boomed from the
centre of the room. Then at last little
Hughes took the floor when by rights he
should have taken the table. A canopy I’ose
above him to throw his voice to the four
corners of the gi-eat room and give a semi-
regal air. First we had Hughes speaking
with such eixergy that his three diamond
shii't-buttons flashed lightning; next, Hughes
received with handkerchief waving and
applause; then Hughes mumbling into his
empty glass that the Government had decided
to send the called-ups, “after a month’s train-
ing, back to their homes.” Not a sound came
from the whole room in response to that
remark.
I forgot to tell you that pi’oceedings opened
with an organ storm. The Hennessy dame
loves that thunderous giant down to the last
little reed that twitters happily when the
great siege pipes have gone to sleep.
Thei’e is a romantic mystery suri’ounding
the foot-trouble of Governor Stanley. It
may be the after-effects of a desperate
attempt at leg-pulling, or Capital may have
trampled on it while leaving the country.
The confidential secretary can only breathe
the happy fact that his Ex. is getting on “as
well as can be expected”—the ancient, sick-
room retort that makes the sympathetic in-
quirer who has expected nothing feel stupid.
The potentate has had a slight operation on
his foot, and may be “about” again in a few
days.
The Best People are wailing and gnash-
ing their choicest factory-made teeth, because
Governor Stanley refuses to allow them to
play two-up, fan-tan or thimble and-pea
when they come to the French Oi’phans’
Fete at Stouington. He has been coaxed,
cajoled and thi’eatened in a respectful
manner; but to vei’y little pui’pose. The
only concession he has made is with regard
to raffles, which he will allow on the ground
that nobody buys a ticket in a selfish
gambling spirit. Lesley Madden had a
beautiful spinning-jenny ready, which was
relied on to make so much money that you
have to blink when the sum is mentioned.
Sassiety counted so much on getting a haul
when the fete was booked for the vice-i’egal
home; but this official set against gambling
makes it about as alluring as a Methodist
tea-meeting.
At the Stonington fete, > to be held on
Saturday, there is to be a big dancing scene
in which 60 children will take part. Jennie
Brenan has composed certain contortions
and labelled them “Titania’s Court.” The
Stanleys’ eldest daughter will be Titania.
The Geoffrey Syme beauty-children are also
involved; also June Baillieu, Betty Fair-
bairn and Baby Wilma, delight of the Mount
Schank Clarkes.
Adelaide’s epistle:—
Saturday, the day of the children’s fete at Austral
Gardens in aid of the League of Loyal Women and
the prisoners of war in Germany, showed a cheerful
balance-sheet, in spite of rain and a slight fall of
snow. In the circumstances a Noah’s Ark and
menagerie of animals were the strongest magnet.
Mrs. A. A. Lendon and Miss Peacock were the
organisers of the show, and a whirling time they
had when the downpours necessitated a transference
of the entertainments from the garden to the veian-
dahs and the spare kitchens. The plunder amounted
to nearly £4OO, the expenses to a modest £2l.
On the same date there was an Australia Day fes-
tivity at Stirling, and -patriots paddled about in
the rain looking for the sports and the procession
and colliding with drenched damsels hawking sod-
den collection-boxes. There was a Queen competi-
tion, of course. It took sedate S. Aus. some time
to adopt the idea, but now there is barely a suburb
that is not playing up the ruse.
At the annual meeting of the Children’s Hospital
the news was broken that the expenditure for the
year had exceeded the income, which made it neces-
sary to lift some of the invested funds. The presi-
dent’s job is shouldered by C. H. Angas, in suc-
cession to the late Chief Justice Way. Like his
father, J. H. Angas, C.H. has always taken a keen
interest in this hospital.
Dr. H. S. Newland (lieut.-colonel by rank) has
been appointed to the command of a general hospi-
tal in England. Since he got busy he has toiled in
Egypt, Lemnos, Gallipoli and France. His wife
steamed for England some weeks ago, leaving her
small family in charge of her mother, Mrs. Lindon.
We are pluming ourselves on the Servian Order
of the White Eagle that has come to one of
Admiral Creswell’s sons. His mother was a Stow.
The Adelaide Women’s Choir gave its first concert
at the Town Hall on Saturday evening. Governor
Galway was there, likewise the Mayor and Mrs.
Isaacs, but mere citizens were turned away by
baker’s dozens.
One of Josiah Symon’s daughters was aboard the
Arabia when the steamer was torpedoed. The Symon
girl was on her way to join a sister and take
up V.A.D. work in England. Like all the other
passengers, she has been landed safe and well.
The recreation hall added to the Home for Incui -
ables at Fullarton, thanks to a bequest of £6OOO
from the late M. McNally, gave the Governor another
chance to turn a key. Lady Galway, who returned
from Melbourne on Wednesday, went round with the
hat.
Copies of Lady Galway’s Belgian Book have been
sent to King George and King Albert. Of the 2000
copies printed nearly 1000 have been sold.
Lady Helen has promised to present
trophies for a knitting tournament at some
date not yet fixed. All' exhibits are to
become the property of the 15th Infantry
Brigade Comforts Fund, and must reach the
depot, Olderfleet, by November 20. Her Ex.
is also going to a gift afternoon for the
Brigade at Scots’ Kirk Hall, on November
23.
Mrs. Gordon Lane, who used to be Kath
Mcllwraith, is about again, after her severe
illness of last year, looking as handsome as
ever. She has taken a swagger flat at St.
Kilda, and leaves hubby to chase motor-
cars and other animals with his old passion
for speed.
Dr. Charlie Lempriere’s one fair daughter,
Clare, is just engaged to an Apple Islander
in khaki, who is now off to the Front.
Sal Druitt, who left the maternal sheep
acres in N. S. Wales this year and tripped to
England, sends woi’d that she is on the way
to the altar with an attractive young man
who is a rubber planter at Singapore in times
of peace. He is now in khaki and bound for
the trenches. Sal is a beauty, and that awful
thing known as “well connected.”
Solicitor Gaden’s wife from Darling Point
i 3 staying with the Ilope-Campbells at
Toorak. She is doing the Race meetings
with them, for though the visitor has had
her share of war losses she refuses to sit
at home and weep.
Mrs. Sheridan, who was a Hordern, you
know —cousin of the Hordern family—has
crossed over from Sydney with her two girl-
ettes to spend the hot months in Melbourne.
She stays with her sister, Mrs. lioystone
Davey, who is something of an invalid these
days.
Reggie Bloomfield, Rupert Clarke’s partner
in rubber planting, had hardly got back with
his wife from a jaunt to Java before he was
off again to Papua to see how the trees were
getting along. Mrs. Reggie preferred to
grasswidow in the city this trip.
A whisper went round Flemington on Cup
Day that Connie Waugh had come quietly
back, and was establishing herself at the old
address in Queen’s-road. She did not put in
an appearance on Cup Day, however. Maybe
the lovely lady is carefully unpacking some-
thing startling for the delayed Oaks and
Steeplechase meetings.
Mrs. Ranclaud, from Sydney, gave a race-
time party at the Oriental last week. Lesley
Madden, in black fui’belows, exchanged
bazaar notes with Mrs. Barry Thompson,
who tried hard to talk seriously about stalls
under cute blue millinery. Mrs. Whyte sup-
ported a duck of a hat over her edge of the
table; it was pink-mauve above and pastel-
blue below, and it carried baby pink roses
flattened out iu blotting-paper style. Only
an I.W.W. could have hated it. The hostess
wore an adorable di’ess of ninon in what the
dress artists call midnight blue, and the
fiuffiness was weighted down with a scented
necklace of pressed cloth-of-gold roses. Have
you seen these new scented necklaces? They
are made of perfumed flowers papier-mached
into strings of miniature blooms. The little
Tewkesbury girl, just back from England,
had one. of buttercups strung round her
sailor collar. Mrs. Russell Gabb, the lovely
Adelaide girl who now belongs to Mel-
bourne, was wrapped in amber and brown
furs and brown ninon. The frocks have
got to blossom, you know, even if festivities
are cut down.
The dresses and hats displayed the wearers
on the comfy leather seats of the Oriental
lounge on Cup Tuesday—the hopeless day
when Flemington was all water and mud.
The women first sipped teas and then got
on to cocktails. At last the orchestra was
so compelling that the whole company, led
by the eager flappers, began to dance.
The Greens, Mrs. William and daughter
Florence, will give their usual annual ball,
despite the war. It happens on December
6, and will include the usual astonishing
display of pocket Gendes and Pavlovas. Of
course the proceeds go to the patriotic funds.
Mrs. Dyer, of Camberwell, got going pro-
perly after her return from a health trip
to the Islands. She is a dyed-in-the-wool
Red Crosser, so when outsiders saw a big
party in progress at Torryburn they knew
what it was for. Mrs. Robin helped to sell
things, and her bride-daughter from Donald
made a set of silk underwear that sold for
£4O. The pale hostess, in pale blue and
white, had engaged a heap of entertainers.
Kirby sang and brought a gifted girl pupil,
Nita Delaney. She has a fine soprano voice.
Norah Delaney (no relation) was also there,
coaxing the piano. May Griffiths, in fawn
fixings, played and sang prettily. Girls
sold flowers and sweets to the loyal Haw-
thorners, who rolled up in great numbers and
dripped lots of money into the fancy stalls.
A pretty little stage lady of uncommon
talents has just felt obliged to refuse the
plump hand and considerable income of a
popular singer well known in these parts.
The swain has long been regarded as a
callous bachelor with a preference for laying
up treasure on earth. But Miss Footlights
wrought a rapid change in the artist, and
when her fluffy charm had soaked into his
system he was a hot and happy stranger to
his former self. Heat begat no heat in this
case, however.
The Louis Essons, who are leaving for
the Neutral States on the 22nd, were fare-
welled by an inky and artistic crowd at the
Cafd Denat on Friday. Vance Palmer pre-
sided and px-oposed the health of the depart-
ing pair. Louis nervously read a reply at
breakneck speed, and his handsome wife (she
is a B.A. with a yearning for the footlights)
made a very presentable speech. Dave Dow.
Ted Dyson and Hal Gye also made them-
selves heard, and some neat Australian
parodies wei'e read by Maisie Maxwell and
the chairman.
The fine Maoriland kinemacolor pictures
have struck silver at the Auditorium, and a
“limited season” has been joyfully extended
to enable the rest of Melbourne to roll along
and do homage. Glaciers, snow peaks, water-
falls and blue and green torrential rivers
are thrown on the screen, and the Maori
dances and bathes and does his or her hot-
spring cooking as if you were an expensive
tourist. Then you see wheatfields with
busy white Maorilanders working in them,
and after that more scenery. By way of
contrast you are next shown the delicate
evenness of English scenery: and then the
King and Queen, in all their royal pomp and
circumstance, visiting the placid, sweet town
of Stratford-on-Avon.
Miss H. liwine, a sister of the Iceberg, is
showing her paintings in the Upper Hall of
the Athenaeum. Mrs. Walter Withers is
superintending the exhibition, so it will be
well marfaged. Miss Irvine studied painting
in Paris, and has many sketches made in
France and Ireland. Justice aßeckett is
particularly interested in the show, which he
opened on Monday. It \yill continue until
November 23, and 25 per cent, of the profits
go to the French orphans.
The Arts and Crafts are having a great
show—the finest they’ve yet held in Mel-
bourne. All crafts are well represented. Lady
Stanley is exhibiting a fine piece of enamelling
—a crucifix made by Alexander Fisher, a big
London craftsman. This specialist taught
the industrious Lady Carmichael. Victor
Hood, who has a pretty taste in art values,
bought a piece of bronze as a Christmas pre-
sent for Carmichael himself. The precious
thing was made by an Australian, and is a
kingfisher with the colors cunningly fused.
Mrs. George Chirnside isn’t coming back to
domesticity and Werribee just yet, after all.
George Chirnside got a cable telling him that
Audrey was being useful in London —-she has
a job at the Admiralty. Other Victorian
maidens are useful there, too. Athol Levy
has a billet in the same place; so has Wynne
Laidley, of Sydney. By the way, her engage-
ment is being whispered about.
(Continued on page 35.)


■K
-:. . ■
: - iiSlSilf
!% ' j
I 1 ■
K;aw#l| f I
fl
yp; -.if • .
itf 1
k
i
fl
m
&
A
MM
j&L
ft.
sV
IS
I ft
IS
PIpP
mi
•, •
m
M
*
y/i
%
Wt:
'////? t
•<r,>'
( m
mm
■M
m
m
m
i§
y/4
W/j
%
' i 8
Kling'tite Belts are Replacing'
Leather Everywhere, Do Better
Work, at a Lower Cost.
The headline will bear
repetition because it
states a fact on which the
great Goodyear belting
business has been built:
Klingtite Belts are replac-
ing leather everywhere
and do better zvork at a
lower cost.
In plants, where the pull is
smooth and strong —
where moisture is belt-
ing’s enemy —where grit
shortens the life of belts
—where the load varies
greatly and slippage is
not tolerated —
There vou will find Kli no*.
J o
tite giving the best
o o
transmission service these
plants have ever known
—and at the lowest cost.
It hugs the pulley and saves
power. It causes no
delavs or shut-downs.
j
Klingtite has also proved
its superiority as an ele-
vator belt, giving lowest
tonnage cost wherever
o
used.
Its flexibility prevents, for
the longest time, break or
split at bucket fastenings.
Klingtite extra-efficiencv is
c 5 J
largely due to the fact
that Goodyear selects
specially woven duck to
insure the greatest pos-
sible strength.
It is thoroughly impreg-
nated with a high-grade
compound, and the rub-
ber is literally driven
through the meshes of
the duck.
In this way a degree of
flexibility is obtained
which insures against
ply-separation and the
consequent losses caused
by shut-downs and re-
placements.
Klingtite Service and sav-
ings more than offset its
o
higher price.
The Goodyear line of Mechanical
Goods includes Blue Streak and
Klingtite Belts, Goodyearite Asbestos
Sheet Packing, and Goodyear Hose
and Valves.
The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
6 Chesser Street, Adelaide, S.A.
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
6 Mercer Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Representatives in all Principal Cities throughout Australasia.


Ihe Swan-Safety is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket
handbag, or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the "ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of oyer 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
SAME
THE
SOLDIERS’
PEN.
POyNTPBN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIK, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
fg
i
1
0 *
v
ABSOLUTE!? IT
imwm
King
George IV
WHISKY
The TOPNOTCHScotch
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Win”: “Konini” asks for information re
the fire-walking by Fijians and other South Sea
Islanders (B. 12/10/’l6). The ceremony in Fiji is
much the same as that recently gone through at
Cook Island, but only one tribe, the natives of Bega
(pronounced Bengga) can do the trick, and they will
perform only on rare occasions. A hollow in the
earth, about 20ft. in diameter, is floored with stones,
arid on these stones a monster fire is kept burning for
several hours, sometimes days, till the bed is at
a white heat. The coals are then raked off, and,
after throwing in some hibiscus leaves, the fire-
walkers, barefooted and arrayed in gala dress, step
calmly into the oven and walk around two or three
times without being scorched in any way. The ordeal
over, a great feast is prepared, and pigs and sundries
are cooked on the stones. English spectators have
examined the firewalkers’ feet before and after the
furnace act, but the how and the why remain a
mystery. I have been told that trusting whites have
ventured on the fire-walk holding the hands of the
natives, and have suffered no ill effects. According to
the Fijian legend one Galita, whilst digging in a hole
wherein abode a monstrous eel, unearthed a dwarf in
human form. He decided to serve up his captive as
an offering to the storyteller of the village, but the
dwarf begged to be set free, and in return for his
liberty gave Galita and his followers the power to
found a famous practice. Forthwith they prepared
an oven, and on that day the mystery was taught.
SOMETHING TO BE FEARED.
OLD LADY : “Come in, my man. Don’t be
frightened of Tiny—his bark is worse
than his bite.”
THE MAN OUTSIDE: “Then for Heaven’s
sake don't let ’im bark, ma’am.”
“Old ■Recruiter” • rpu. _ ~ .
O d Recruitei . The narrative in a
recent Buiaetin revives other memories of the
schooner Peri. In the early ’7o’s a cutter named the
Miva was making a trip from Levuka to Taviuni, a
distance of 90 mile% carrying Solomon Island
laborers and several Europeans, mostly Ballarat or
Jldbou™ people, amongst them beibg Wa,barton,
Kington, Robinson and Williams. When they were
well out in the Koro Sea the savages, being all on
deck and having their tomahawks with them, rushed
the Europeans and axed them and the Fijian
crew. The master, old Bill Banks, and the steers-
man, Marika, were either knocked overboard or they
jumped over, and some of the Solomon Islanders
jumped after them. A fearful fight in the water
ended in the pursuers being- killed. In the meantime
the cutter had sailed away and was lost sight of.
The nearest land was the island of Nairai, distant
about 10 or 15 miles, and side by side the white man
and the native started to swim for it. All that night
and the following day they swam, and some time in
the afternoon the native reached the shore. But old
Bill went down' somewhere in the passage through the
reef. As soon as the news of the massacre reached
Levuka parties went out in all directions searching
for the Miva. One of the vessels was the Xariffa, the
one-time crack yacht of Port Jackson. She was sailed
by an old Sydney yachtsman named Carrington
Croft. Meanwhile the murderers on the Miva, sailing
westward, got stranded on the Island of Biva, in the
Yas-awa Group. They all got on shore and took to
the bush. That’s where the Peri came in. Her men,
with the assistance of the native inhabitants, captured
most of the runaways and took them to Levuka. That
was the schooner’s first introduction to tragedy. The
second and last phase occurred shortly afterwards,
when she was chartered to bring in another load of
recruits. Captain Bergen was put in charge of her,
and he impressed me as a sort of Sunday-school
teacher. He spoke rather strongly against keeping
black brethren below, and said he did not think it
necessary to have an armed sentry on deck. I
warned him and his mate, Bill Orr, of the class of
passengers they were likely to have, and advised
them, as soon as the men came on board, not only to
put them below, but to keep on the hatch-gratings,
and not to allow more than two savages on deck at
a time. I don’t know whether the advice was taken,
but at one of the outer islands a load of 70 canni-
bals was shipped, and the Peri put to sea, bound
for Levuka and never reached there. Some two years
afterwards I heard casually that a vessel answering
her description had been picked up off the coast of
Australia with a few living natives and the remains
of many dead on board.
“Hambidge” : From between the sheets on
the verandah this is the little comedy I saw played
by Australian artists. Around the corner of the house
came the cat with a proud curl in his whiskers and
a mouse in his teeth. Horace, the jackass, stood on
the edge of the path apparently fast asleep. Tom
deposited his load
on the gravel and
kept turning his
head and yawning
as if he were too
tired to interest
himself further in
the matter. Then
the mouse would
make a rush for the
hedge; but the
suddenly-alert cat
was too smart for
him. Several times
the prisoner tried
to escape, on each
occasion edging
nearer to Horace.
Finally Tom started
to wash his face in
a leisurely sort of
way, and the mouse
got right to the
feathered party.
With a single
movement of his
head Horace seized
the titbit in his
beak and had
almost swallowed
it when the cat
looked round and
missed his pro-
perty. Tom was
absolutely bewil-
dered for a
moment, then he
saw the last half-
inch of tail vanish
down Jack’s throat.
That hard case
never moved an
inch except to immediately close his eyes again, and
do everything in the sleep-line except snore. Puss
considered things for a moment and then walked
calmly over to Horace, spat in his face and retreated
dejectedly around the house. Even that insult
didn’t move Horace. He didn’t open his eyes for
over half an hour.
* * * *
“F.C.S.”: Re shearing tallies. My memory
leads me to think that the best performance by any
one man in a shed extending over 16 weeks and
averaging over 1000 per week for the full period
was put up by one Denny Noonan. He was alleged
to have shorn 16,400. That was about 1888. Denny
learned the art from Alf Wagner, of Maoriland. I’d
like .to have the figures verified, and I don’t mind
offering my second-best motor-car as a reward.
* * * *
“Norseman”: How’s this for a record?
Not many days back a string of 43 camels left
Wanaaring (N.S.W.) on a trip up the Paroo, via
Hungerford, packed with anything from a packet of
hops to Billy Hughes's Referendum papers.
THE MISSION WOMAN.
“Everard’s wife married him to reform him, didn’t she?”
“Yes; and she eloped last night with Elderbury. Thinks his a more urgent case than
Everard’s.”
“Papuan Settler”: I have travelled over
most of the South Seas, and done a great deal of
swimming therein, with the not-to-be-avoided con-
sequence of a cut or two from the reefs. It is
quite true that coral cuts are exceedingly dangerous.
Small wonder, as they are usually filled with decay-
ing animal matter from the coral insect (if it is
an insect; it used to be, but fashions change). I
have heard of limbs being lost from the effects of
a coral cut, and seen a good many people going about
tied up for much longer than was convenient or
agreeable to them. But I have never had an hour’s
trouble myself, because I know the remedy. I have
torn one leg nearly open on a mid-Pacifie reef, when
dragged over it by a sudden swell, and it healed up
(the leg, not the reef) as cleanly as a cut made
with a surgeon’s sterilised knife. The reason: When
I got home I poured oil of turpentine over it. It
made things lively for 10 minutes, but there was
no trouble. Turpentine, or the oil thereof, will
cure any coral cut before it has time to begin
troubling. It will also cure the sting of most
stinging fishes, if the stung part is slightly opened
with a knife-point and the turpentine dropped in.
* * * *
“Cochabamba”: Concerning the outbreak
of Irish-Australians in Bolivia, mentioned by “Ver-
dad” (B. 12/10/’l6). In Bolivia you can sometimes
take liberties with the police, but with the military,
no! The yarn about five or six amateur “bad men”
running out a detachment of soldiers is bosh. The
man who set fire to the Indian village (an Irish-
Australian) cleared as hard as horses could take him
to Cochabamba when he got sober enough to travel.
He afterwards made a poor attempt to hold up the
railroad camp at Aguas Calcentes. After emptying
his two guns at my timekeeper and hitting him only
twice, he found the keys of the safe (containing
65,000 dollars) were with us out on the line. There
was • dynamite in the camp, but I guess he was too
scared to use it;- so he and his pal (a Yank) took
a mule and two horses from the corral and beat it
to the hills, full of whisky, and loaded up with
enough ammunition to kill all Bolivia. They
appeared back at the camp within 24 hours, mounted
on two burros, with their legs shackled underneath,
and escorted by a sub-lieutenant of police and half
a dozen Indians. There are “bad men” in S. America,
but they are of different clay to the men “Verdad”
writes about. When they shoot, which is seldom,
they don’t waste ammunition, and they never drink
too much whisky when on business.
* * * *
“Bevem”: Stand off and admire it, yous
blokes! A thoroughly sound cypress pine log, 47
feet long, average girth 4ft. 10in., cutting 822 super
feet (Forest Guard certificate). Anyone 'producing a
bigger splinter of this variety can drop it on the
toe of K. Smith, Yetman (N.S.W.).
“Pick”: Hares forsake rabbit-infested
lands simply because among the sweetmeats of the
fields there isn’t room for two prolific colonies, and
the fellow with the best punch remains in possession.
A buck hare, when there is a lady in the case, will
fight furiously, but though much the larger animal
his name is mud when the tough rabbo comes along.
Notwithstanding the scoffing of “A. Borig” (B:
19/10/’l6), buck rabbits do devour their offspring
RUINED HIMSELF THAT WAY.
LADY: “ Here’s a penny, my poor man. Tell
me, how did you become so destitute?”
FROWSY FERDY : “I was always like you,
mum, a-givin’ away vast sums ter the
pore and needy!”
with relish when Mrs. Cottontail hasn’t hidden the
family effectively, and this is a fair clue to start
■upon when the extinction of leverets in rabbit-country
is being investigated. A curious fact is that although
hares are never seen in districts where rabbits have
become numerous, as soon as an area is wire-netted
and cleaned up of the cotton-tails the hares reappear
and flourish as of yore.
(Continued on page 24.)
BONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Eden, so the Scriptures say,
Old Adam lived alone a day.
It is agreed by learned men
That Eden was an Eden then.
To furnish Eve, the first of crones,
She had the pick of Adam’s bones.
The sex is perfectly content
With that unhappy precedent,
And woman with exceeding skill
The bones of man is picking still!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


KEEP YODR FLAG FLYING!
Don’t haul down the flag of appearance and
create the impression that you are quitting the
struggle. You can combine distinction with
economy if you
Wear a MURDOCH
Suit-to-Measure
631-
At this moderate figure we tailor you a high-
grade Suit that will give maximum service and
satisfaction.
Your money back if we fail to please.
■9
LEAVE YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Call and see the Suitings or write for
patterns —fill in the coupon now.
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's in Park Street, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Summer
Suitings at 63/- the Suit-to-measure,
with tape and self-measurement form.
NAME
ADDRESS
YOUR SUMMER
PANAMA
should be bought at Murdoch’s
—our values are unequalled—
your choice in Genuine Native
Panamas —a size and style to
suit every man. .
12/6, 15/6, 21/-
Post Free.
Call and try on your size or
write Desk R.
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
ss
Where the GOOD Hats are.”
t f*
I
I If )
it
S’
£
“T-7
S 3
1
X
“When Better Fountains are Built,
NELSON’S will build them.”
Our Fountains at present are as perfect as human hands can make them.
Built on scientific lines by expert mechanics, embodying the latest hygie.nic
systems—which ensure perfect cleanliness —constructed of specially-picked
material. The product of years of close study.
Is it any wonder the name Nelson’s is the hall-mark of the Fountain trade ?
This is the age of the specialist. Don’t buy a Fountain from the firm who deals
in dozens of lines, and to whom the Soda Fountain is a side-line. They nave
not the welfare of the trade at heart. Buy from Nelson’s, the firm that
specialises in Soda Fountains.
We know no other line—-we only know the Soda Fountain trade from A to A.
The installation of Soda Fountain stands for progressiveness and up-to-
dateness. The public support the progressive man. Cater for jthe public in the
right way and secure their patronage by installing a Nelson Fountain.
COMPLETE SODA FOUNTAIN OUTFIT READY TO USE FROM £25.
Write use for Price List of our Accessories, “anything from a Straw to a
Soda Fountain.” The passport to the successful running of a Soda Fountain
business: “Nelson’s True Fruit Syrups.”
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
(The House of Quality), 219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Fleming H. Mogg, Preston House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: Bannatyne & Hunter.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Hadden, 99 William Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Silas H. Martin, The Ritz, King William Street.
fill
mm
11
/T
M
H
ill
M
is'* '»S; Vw
i \
fs.«4j
m
*
ysi
IS f*
If.] k's. - f’* ~-j» —i
V,; Lk &rik. ~IL
r
V ’?•:
:
sa*?«
«■ \
~• S~T^Hr"S
The Mitchell Six —the Master Car
THE fascination and the exhilaration of
motor touring are yours in fullest measure
in a car whose satisfying completeness
delights you at every point —the Mitchell Six.
You will find in the Mitchell the realisation of
your ideal of what a car should be.
A five-minute ride will prove to you that the
Mitchell is the easiest-riding car known. You
will be pleasantly surprised by the wonderful
smoothness with which it passes over rough
roads without your feeling the roughness in the
least.
You will never require to use a shock absorber
on the Mitchell. Its exclusive Bate cantilever
springs make it so remarkably easy riding.
Your first glance will tell you that the Mitchell
is built on lines of surpassing beauty.
Actual experience will bring home to you the
absolute reliability of the Mitchell engine.
Fitted with magneto ignition, it is unfailing in
the most severe conditions of hard service.
You have every convenience in this car, includ-
ing self-starter and engine-driven tyre-pump.
The long wheel base gives you ample roominess
and comfort; the matchless endurance and
strength of the Mitchell mean full security.
The great efficiency of the Bate-built engine
makes the Mitchell very economical in upkeep —
it goes twenty-five miles and over to the gallon
of benzine.
The price here is lower than the price of any car
of equal cost in America.
Call in during the week and ride the-Mitchell
yourself, or write for full information.
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland: F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Agents for Victoria and Tasmania: JAS. A. MUNRO & CO., 493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD RALPH & CO., Victoria Street, Adelaide.
Agents for West Australia: BRADLEY & WILLIAMS, 853-857 Hay Street, Perth.
Agents for New Zealand: North Island—lNGLlS BROS., Wellington. South IsIand—HAMLET & TENCH, 166 Tuam Street, Christchurch.


ACID STOMACHS ARE DANGEROUS.
NINE-TENTHS OF ALL STOMACH
TROUBLES SAID TO DUE TO
ACIDITY.
A PHYSICIAN’S ADVICE ON CAUSE
AND CURE.
A famous physician, whose successful re-
searches into the cause and cure of stomach
and intestinal diseases have earned for him
an international reputation, said in the
course of a recent lecture that nearly all in-
testinal troubles, as well as many diseases of
the vital organs, were directly traceable to a
deranged condition of the stomach, which in
turn was due nine times out of 10 to excessive
acidity, which not only irritated and inflamed
the delicate lining of the stomach, but also
set up , gastritis and stomach ulcers. It is
interesting to note that he and his colleagues
have secured remarkable results by the use of
ordinary bisurated magnesia, which, by
neutralising the acidity of the food, removes
the source of the trouble. He contends that
it is as foolish to treat the stomach itself
as it would be for a man who stepped on a
tack to rub liniment on the foot without
first removing the tack. Remove the tack
and the foot will heal itself—neutralise
the acid and stomach troubles will dis-
appear. Irritating medicines and medical
treatments are useless, so long as the con-
tents of the stomach remain acid; remove
the acidity, and there will be no need for
medicine —the inflamed lining of the stomach
wilj then heal itself. Sufferers from acidity
should get a small bottle of bisurated mag-
nesia from their chemist, and take half a
teaspoonful in a quarter of a glass of hot or
cold water after meals, repeating in 15
minutes, if necessary, this being the dose
which the doctor has found most efficacious
in all cases. — Advt.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
CHRISTIE^
£P£CZAU3£
TWO
L/JV£S
I# 5
aW P ,
s
0
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
ĝdf
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
IS /IONTER ST NEWCASTLE
“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who thinks he knows.” Try Martell’s
and you’ll become a connoisseur; you will know then
what the best is; and will know you know. When
it comes to ordering- brandy again, you will specify
MARTELL’S BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic, that Martell’s ensures. Never travel
without some Martell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNBEATEN QUALITY. [2
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment: “Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. — Advt. [2
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“Buly True”: Who has seen our dusky
brother produce moisture by the manipulation of
“rain-stones” ? Don’t know what part the stones
play, because Binghi keeps it a close secret. I
remember once, in the midst of a severe drought in
Queensland, I had a black for a mate at a job
of pulling out bogged cattle. I hinted to Yarr.y
that it was about up to the local rain doctor to
get busy, because if he didn’t there would soon
be nobody left to get wet. As makeweight I threw
in a remark that I fancied the doc. was getting
too old and couldn’t make rain for nuts. I shall
never forget the look of scorn Yarry gave me as
he answered: “By cripes, boss, you big feller fool
just like it all about white feller. Doctor maket
it rain just as well as ever he can only he bin too
plurry lazy.”
* * * *
“X.Y.” : The Red Cross has had returned
from abroad, as of no practical value, a bundle of
sticks which bears the following label: “From the
Oodnadatta branch Red Cross; ten walking-sticks
made from mulga wood by Gipps Charlie, abo-
rigine.” Perhaps black brother is proof against the
virus carried by this venomous wood, or it may
be the only wood available at Oodnadatta, but
neither the white man nor his domestic animals
enjoy any immunity, and loss and suffering caused
by wounds made by this wood are common features
of life in the West. The vegetable is, on account
of its yield of edible foliage, the most valuable
tree in the dry country; but a puncture by a
splinter is almost as dangerous as the bite of a
venomous snake. Green or dry, the timber is poison-
ous. It has a tendency to break with a jagged
fracture, and the projecting splinters become as
hard as bone, and will pierce a strong boot or
legging. When a horse is staked about the legs
the chances are about five to one that he will be
permanently crippled. Even when the splinter is
a small one and is extracted promptly swelling and
inflammation set in at once, and usually develop
to such a degree that the joint in the vicinity of
the wound becomes lastingly injured. In the mulga
country every holding has a set of probes and
forceps for extracting these splinters. On the
North Coast the weed Stinking Roger affects man
and beast in a similar way, but in its case the
leaves are noxious also, although horses eat the
young shoots with immunity and apparent relish.
A Sydney solicitor, a member of a well-known legal
firm, has a stiff leg at present from a splinter of
mulga with which he came in contact during a
vacation on a West Queensland station. He came
very near losing his life as well as the use of his
knee-joint.
* * * *
“Bill Bedsox” : It is apparently not gener-
ally known that mice will not violate the neutrality
of flour that is packed in bags made of stout white
cotton duck. A couple of years ago, having a
couple of yards remnant from a tent, I converted
it into flour bags for the camp, and though mice,
rats and ’possums have at various times used them
as bunks, there have been no marks of curiosity as
to the flavor of the contents on the part of the
pests. Try it, you bushwhackers; it saves sifting.
SLIPPERY.
BOUNDARU RIDER: “I see Jerry bin get six
months, Jimmy!"
JIMMY: "My word! That Jerry berry
smart, he do it berry quick."
IN THE RUSH OF TRADE.
TRAVELLER: “I have an hour to wait
for the next train. Have you any
light literature?"
BUNG (inspecting his stock ): "I'm just
outer it—sold the last bottle a hour
ago."
Koikoi-las”: “Papua,” in a recent
Bulletin, is wrong in attributing the murders of
Clark (prospector) and Green (magistrate) on the
Mambare River to the influence of old Bushimai.
Bushi, though a chief of consequence on the lower
river, had no say amongst the upper river people
who were responsible for the crimes, and
was, in fact, many miles aw r ay when they
took place. Green, his police and prison-
ers were murdered at the instigation of
one of his own constables, a man named
Dumai, and that native with another
served a few years in gaol for the act.
The other murderers were pardoned by
the influence of sundry meddlers high in
the missionary swindle. As a result,
Dumai and his unpunished accomplices
now walk about their villages inflaming
the young bucks of the rising generation
with blood-curdling stories of the way.
they “wiped out the Guv’mint.” “Papua’s”
yarn that Bushimai ate his fellows after
their escape from the Port Moresby gaol
is an oft-repeated fable. As a matter of
fact, only two of them perished, and those
went under from exhaustion ; the others,
including Bushi’s son, Oia, now a sergeant
of police, subsisted on food they got from
the many native gardens on the way home.
* * * *
“Melos”: “Quondong” (B. 12/10/’l6)
offers a good recipe tor bald knees in horses, but I
believe mine is a better one: onion juice and gin
(the spirit, of course), and put in as much of the
former as you can find patience to extract. (P.S. —
Don’t show this par. to the girl, or she’ll put herself
into quarantine and try it on her own dear head.)
“Te Pana”: Living in a land of cocoa
palms one wonders why it is that half the popula-
tion is not annually exterminated by falling nuts,
yet I’ve never heard of a brown or a white getting
the pass-out check in this way. Planters say that
most of the fruit that falls does so during the
night when the dew has relaxed the fibres of the
stalks—which might be all right but for the trifle
that damp tightens up fibres instead of relaxing
them. The native explains that it is the will of
the Almighty which prevents sudden death, and
that’s about as good as any other solution.
THEY PARTED COMPANY.
BOSS: “What the have you done with your horse?"
JACKEROO: “ Didn't you tell me if I got bushed to let the horse go and he would find
the way? Well, I let him go, but I couldn’t keep up to the beggar."
“ J.Z.R.” : Down on Monaro (N.S.W.)
jumbucks look fat and well, but when they are
driven, a few promptly snuff out. Common idea is
that they have eaten aged watercress. What about
it?
“Dead Finish”: I have seen as many as
60 horses yoked up for a 'pull across the sandy
Black Sam’s Crossing on the Flinders River (N.Q.),
but these were made up from different teams. Here-
abouts the average strong string is 27 or 28. As
for loads, Tommy Wilkinson’s 21 tons 14cwt. of
greasy wool drawn by 30 hornies will take some
beating. This was taken from Tarbrax station to
Talmoe wool scour (N.Q.) last July. The same
bullocky reckons he can pull 30 tons with his mob,
but the shire council has an eye on him.
“Bad Australian” : In the bad old days in
Australia the mainstay of the bullocky was green-
hide and stringy-bark. The Paraguayan bullocky
hasn’t got the stringy, but he worries along fairly well
without it. His dray is home-made, body, wheels
and axle entirely of wood, and the squealing and
skraaking of his greaseless outfit has done more
towards filling the madhouse than any other cir-
cumstance in Paraguay. The wheels are about six
feet high, and the sides of the vehicle are thatched
with sedge or slatted with split bamboo up to
where the arched cover springs away. The cover,
tilt or lid is generally made of greenhide, but some
of the more enterprising persuaders use zinc sheet-
ing. The team consists of a pair of polers and a
like number of leaders. The polers have a long,
single yoke laid with an end on each “bull” just
where the neck joins the head and securely lashed
to the animals’ horns with greenhide thongs. Bows
are not used in this country, as the “bulls,” being-
used to the head pull, will not stand up to the
bow. About midway on the yoke there is a
mortise which corresponds to another in the end
of the pole. A strong greenhide lashing is reeved
through these mortises and the yoke is made fast
to each side of the pole at a distance of about nine
inches, and a bamboo outrigger is fixed to keep
the motive power from “boring in.” The leaders
are rigged in the same way as regards the yoke.
The gear which connects them to the polers con-
sists of a long hardwood bar mortised at each
end. One end is lashed to the leaders’ yoke and
the other to the pole by passing a greenhide rope
or thong through the mortises and making fast as
in the first case. More than four “bulls” are
rarely used, as the greenhide tackle will not bear
a greater strain. These folk don’t understand any-
thing about the Australian bullocky’s tackle, which
has been known to shift the creek in which the
waggon was bogged. The Paraguayan puncher
doesn’t use a whip. He has a bit of wire with a
loop on the end suspended from the front end of
his ridge pole. Through this he passes a long
limber bamboo with a four-inch nail in the small
end, and when he wants to accelerate the time-
table he takes hold of the other end of the pole,
sets it properly in rest, takes aim, and with a
short, sharp jab delivers the ironmongery where he
expects to get the best result. Then he lights
another cigar (every human in Paraguay smokes
cigars and some seem to live on ’em) and lapses
into a torpid state until the next bad stretch of
road rouses him. Working-bullocks in Paraguay
are a small, scabby, tick-infested lot. They get
horrible treatment and are worked until they are
eaten up by the tick or fall to pieces from poverty
and neglected wounds —and a neglected wound in
Paraguay soon means a festering mass of maggots.
HIS QUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dan Wilks had never seemed the sort
Who’d go away to fight,
Wherefore I murmured: “Well, I’m blessed!”
When Private Wilks, in khaki dressed,
I met the other night.
“You see, it’s like this,” Dan explained;
“Last week I went to ’ear
A bloke ’oo made a speech an’ said
That thousands ’oo ’ad fought an’ bled
’Ad found a glorious bier.
“W’en ’e ’ad done ’is speech, I felt
1 could not stay be’ind.
This early-closin' leaves one dry ;
It's up to me to go an’ try
That boshter beer to find!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


-, . jf.
->* rfej*
art
iVj
SBr»»
jf-j
<*'■*'*
«f’6 €»&«
mx
\C»^-
S
m
union
NSsata^
Sjs 4
«*sS£s!
■ffe
1
m
**%
s\
1.
O
■
Sk»
jssar
?7S»
\
-<u
d>
m
s»
sr
O
r 4S«
g*S
Hun*
3SW
kbk
rife
M
**/*}
V.rjZ* S
te
«A*
/'tf
Jkb floppy
and satidfiedr
STANDARD
WEIGHT
lO for 6d
ff not you soon will be
if you’ll try
CIGARETTES
/, J*he high quality of these world-renowned
cig'arettes never varies. Each cig'arette
in each box contains the best of tobacco,
blended and manufactured in the most
scientific and hyg'ienic manner.
6d* for lO Ns 333 20 for I|*
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable at all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Manufacturers : Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., London, Eng'.
Britain’s Greatest High-class Tobacco and Cigarette Fadory.


CAN
a
□
a
*u Ha Y e you a for drawing—for sketching people and things, and putting
your thoughts upon paper ? Would you like to turn your talent for drawing into
money t It is a fascinating and immensely profitable hobby to be able to sketch easily
and the people you see about you, pretty scenery, places and houses. Did you
ever think what a pleasant and profitable profession is open before anyone with a talent
tor drawing? Black and White Artists make big incomes, the work is extremely inter-
esting and enjoyable, and is exceptionally well paid. Many artists engaged in this work
in Australia make from £l,OOO to £2,000 a year drawing for papers and advertisers. Huge
prices are paid for cartoons, illustrations, and posters. Editors, publishers, and adver-
tisers, are always on the look out for fresh and bright black and white sketches, and are
w>Umg to pay good prices for them. The profession is full of opportunities for anyone
who has a liking for sketching, and who is properly trained. There is no need for you
to leave your home to study this delightful and absorbingly interesting art. You can
study anywhere under our up-to-date system of correspondence instruction, with which
you have the help and guidance of a front rank artist. If you are anxious to develop
your talent for drawing so that you can make money—
COPY THIS SKETCH
AND SEND IT TO US FOR
FREE CRITICISM
£
CJ
4
This places you under no obligation whatever; it will merely give us an oppor-
tunity of judging for you whether you have a talent for this class of work.
When your sketch has been criticised by our artist, we will return it to you to-
gether with our deeply interesting literature dealing with Black and White Drawing,
which tells how various kinds of drawings are done, what prices are paid for drawings,
the opportunities that are open to you, as well as giving you some splendid examples of
modern Black and White Sketches.
We teach you to draw and help
you to sell your sketches.
When returning your sketch we will send
you full particulars of how we can teach
you Money Making Art, no matter where
you live. We will show you exactly what
our system of careful individual corres-
pondence instruction has done for others,
and what it will do for you. Not only do
we develop your talent for sketching in a
modern, practical manner, but we also
give you valuable assistance in selling
your drawings, and show you how and
where to dispose of every kind of sketch
you execute, to the best advantage.
FREE
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET ...
Copy the sketch reproduced above and let
us see what you can do with it. We will
also send you free of charge our illustrated
booklet “ Sketching for Pleasure and
Profit/’ a unioue production of inestim-
able value to anyone with a talent for
drawing. Kindly enclose 3d. in stamps to
cover cost of postage, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF SKETCHING
(Dept. 64), 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
d
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
flny/hapE of Collar
'S'
is supplied bearing the
brand
fgdf
If you wear single collars, Pelaco will fit upon
your neckband like a part of the shirt.
If you wear dot*ble collars, your tie will glide
between the folds with perfect ease. You do
not have to pull your necktie to pieces when
adjusting it in a
Collar.
Four-fold, 6d. Linen-faced, 9d.
Superfine Linen-faced, 1 /-
ALL MERCERS
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Trot”: To illustrate the ways of Red
Tape the Age digs up a case found by R.
McC. Anderson in the Post Office. A coun-
try postmaster wanted a table. The appli-
cation led to 12 departmental reports and
minutes, and the whole tremendous issue
was disposed of in seven weeks. But that
is nothing. The Maoriland railways once
delivered a bag of flour at the wrong
address. It was my flour and worth 4s. Bd.
I wrote about the matter, and in a week
got a reply which meant nothing. I wrote
again. More meaningless reply. I wrote
some more. With dignity and restraint I
consigned the railways to Hades and dashed
off an order for more flour. Eight months
afterwards the general manager sent lift,
of paper and four enclosures. The first
asked if I wanted 4s. Bd. and if so told me
to fill in the documents forwarded. I put
them by and said nothing. A week later
another document arrived telling me that
the general manager was awaiting an
answer. I still kept quiet. Then a tele-
gram came asking if I was dead. Continued
silence. More telegram. More quietness.
After a fortnight I addressed to the G.M. a
polite request to be told if my 4s. Bd. was
available, and if so would he buy me a
pair of fowls with the proceeds. Whereupon
stationery descended on the local post office
in a vast mass, fresh inquiries were started
after missing documents, and 14 months
later a crossed cheque for 4s. Bd, was
delivered and 14 receipts taken. I had to
change the cheque at the pub. The deal
cost 155., because McGinnis and O’Flaherty
were there. I heard afterwards that there
were 22 courts-martial over that flour, 17
dismissals or disratings from the service, and
14 promotions for vigilance. The files relat-
ing to everything connected therewith and
incidental thereto weighed 7i tons. About
the same time Skatsby shot one of my dogs,
and when I squeaked about it he gave me a
couple of quid and yelled that if I wasn’t
satisfied with that I could have a punch on
the nose. That incident closed without fur-
ther talk or notes.
* * * *
“B. & B.”: While “C. Fitzmaggot” (B.
2/1,1/’ 16) was worrying out the question of
margarine v. butter on Salisbury Plain,
Inter-State Commissioners Piddington, Swin-
burne and Lockyer (especially Lockyer)
have been working their machines overtime
on the same subject here in Melbourne. Said
Lockyer the other day: “As traders in butter
we in Australia have always discouraged the
making or use of margarine. But why
should we not have both in our shop win-
dow? The world demands margarine, and as
we have in and handy to Australia an un-
limited supply of the raw materials—tallow,
cocoanut oil, whale oil and other fats and
oils, and milk to mill the margarine with —
why shouldn’t we export the manufactured
article instead of sending away the raw
materials?” Incidentally, the Commission
took the evidence of W. A. Osborne, Pro-
fessor of Physiology at Melbourne Univer-
sity, who said margarine contains just as
much nutriment as butter, but is not as
readily digested, and is not nearly as good
a food for children. “But,” he added, “it
is a lot better than jam.”
* * * *
A plain business letter, showing what
England is doing:—
With regard to delivery generally we hope you will
impress upon your customers the extraordinary diffi-
culties under which we are laboring. Now that prac-
tically every able-bodied man who is fit for Class A
(general service), B 1 (garrison duty abroad), B 2
(labor units of regimental outdoor employment
abroad) or Cl (garrison duty at home) is being
called up for service, you can realise the position,
always bearing in mind that the men of military age
and of good physical capacity are the best workers,
and these are, of course, being drafted into the
army. This morning there is a notification that
all youths as they attain the age of 1.8 years and
seven months must report for duty on and after Octo-
ber 7, and also a further proclamation stating that all
boys born in 1899 may attest voluntarily, which will
bring in even some boys under 17 years of age, so.
that you can gather from this the extent to which the
manhood of the country is being mobilised for service,
and this must considerably interfere with and delay
production of goods.
No wonder Lloyd George begged Australia
not to loaf on the English factory, but to
leave off building monkey-cages for new
zoos and get to work on its serious require-
ments.
* * * *
They did not all come out of the Ark at
Ararat (Vic.). When they have a political
debate up there it isn’t a free show. The
other day two local champions, the school-
master and the hairdresser, had a go, and
the admission was 3d. each. As a result
the respective organisations whacked up
£l2 15s. between them, which came in very
handy.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Does anyone know a good
method of discouraging spiders—the ones
that weave their homes about telegraph in-
sulators? Spider-webs cause two-thirds of
the trouble and delays on Australian lines,
during wet weather. The tangle of web
gathers the dust, and the whole, when wet,
or even only damp, becomes semi-conducting,
providing a track down which the current
leaks uselessly to earth. On coastal lines I
have seen this leakage so bad that the whole
of the current was lost, the line making
what is known as “dead earth.” One genius
suggested that a submarine cable be laid
along the coast with loops into the various
stations. He was either a humorist or a
damfool. What is wanted is a different
shaped insulator. The one now in use adver-
tises for such boarders as wasps and spiders,
providing shelter and foothold for all. But
if it were shaped like an inverted cone, with
the wire half hitching round a small ball
near the bottom, the house-hunting spider
would only be provided with somdiing
which the first shower of ram would Leep
clean. , *
“Billy T.”: The war profits on ctils
should be something enormous. I hc*e
they come within the scope of the Act. x
caul I mean is a thin skin covering the hea
and shoulders of an occasional newborL
infant. I was one of the occasionals. My
mother preserved that caul as a precious
possession. A certain number of friends,
acquaintances and relations knew °t its
existence. Behold how much ground a little
fact may cover! I have had application
from five States for small portions ot my
caul, all from relations or friends ot men
off to the wars. The popular idea, as you
probably know, is that a caul is the luckiest
thing a man could have had about him when
getting himself born. Originally the notion
was that a caul was an unfailing preventive
against drowning, and a whole caul was
deemed necessary to salvation. _ Now it is
believed the caul is a luek-bringer m all
cases and places, and the smallest scrap is
held to be effective. Some applicants who
can’t get caul say they will be content to
take locks of hair. I have no hair to spare,
and would give a whole bale of .luck-bringing
cauls for a sure cure for neuritis.
* * * *
“Ivoikoi-las” : “Kuku-kuku” (B. 10/8/T6)
apparently has not travelled out of sight
of Samarai and Port Moresby. In the
northern and western ends of Papua, thou-
sands of acres of the best virgin land m
the world, on navigable rivers and water-
ways, where native food is abundant, and
labor is available in unlimited numbers at
6s. per month, may be secured by agricul-
turists. Very little of this land has been
taken up, but the areas under cultivation
which are being developed at a minimum
cost have produced some of the most pro-
mising cocoanuts in the Territory. Before
allowing “Kuku-kuku’s” remarks to dis-
courage them, let intending investors . have
a look at the country on the Kumusi and
Opi rivers in Northern Papua and the
Kikori River in the West.
* * * *
“S.”: One of my neighbors gave a very
good reason for voting “No,” although all
his sympathies ran the other way. . “If I
vote ‘Yes,’ ” he said, “young Cobble will have
to go. Then what about the 30 bob he owes
me?”
* * * *
“Homo”: Only tried munition-making
once. Was then a country nipper, and
shot was something' like Bd. a pound at the
local store. I had heard something of the
principles of the shot tower and was fully
convinced that, with a high enough drop
for the process, I could make all I wanted
for myself and might supply the other
blokes as well. I selected a tall tree in a
secluded part of the freehold, and labori-
ously established my factory in the branches.
It mostly consisted of a sheet of galvanised
iron and a tub of water placed beneath.
An old piece of sheet-lead furnished ample
raw material, and I soon had a fire up aloft
that started the metal running. The only
drawback was that it fell anywhere but
into the tub. Whilst I was trying to over-
come that difficulty, a sudden gust caught
the fire, and I did a scrambling fall into
the tub of water with the front of my shirt
ablaze. You can’t get me to exult over
Zeppelins burning in mid-air. I’ve been
there myself.
* «• * *
“Fleecer”: A certain hair fertiliser now
being widely advertised was “given a go”
by a bald friend of mine, with the usual
negative result. As he didn’t order a fresh
supply, he was soon bombarded with pathetic
queries from the “follow-up” department,
and finally was forwarded a bundle of blue-
tinged “test papers” and invited to moisten
his scalp with cold water and apply one
of the slips. If the contact turned the
paper pink it would prove that the “scalp
was in an acid condition,” which could be
remedied by using a special preparation.
That done, the hair raiser would produce
so many inches of wool per week. The poor
victim duly made the prescribed test in my
presence, and, of course, found the rosy
tint on the test paper. But his jaw fell
when I dipped another paper in the water
jug and saw it turn as pink as the first.
Why is it that the three-card trick man
promptly gets plain quod, while a fraud of
this sort is allowed to loot the bald till he’s
tired of taking the money?
* * * *
“Tiaki”: The Maoriland Wood Pulp and
Paper Manufacturing Co., Ltd., has obtained
reservations over 30,000 acres of bush on
the West Coast in the vicinity of Otira, and
the Government has set aside a further
30,000 acres, with a water-right for generat-
ing power. Samples of timber were recently
sent to the Cold Country to be pulped, and
as a result Maoriland is beginning to think
that it can make paper just as well as
the foreigner. Soon the erring Maori-
lander will be invited to appear at court
on a home-made summons, tinted blue by
a process said to be in possesion of a local
chemist.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: The planting of the Pinus in-
signis in various parts of Victoria, now
being carried out by the Department of
Forests with some vigor, is a shortsighted
policy. The insignis grows in 25 years, as
against. 50 years for the more valuable
pines; but it sells cheaply and has no real
value in competition with the class of pines
which formed the bulk of the 87,000,000 ft.
super imported during the year ended
June 30 last. As a State enterprise it looks
like a gamble. The fact that local insignis
logs are to-day being bought by box- and
case-makers counts for little, since these are
times of abnormal freights.
* * * *
“8.T.” : He was at one of the stamp win-
dows of the Melbourne G.P.O. “Give me
ninepenn’orth of penny stamps, Miss,” he
said. The appearance of the girl inside
pleased him. “I say, you’re a bit of all
right,” he said. “What do you do with
yourself these evenings?” The girl dashed
down nine stamps and 3d. change, and was
haughtily silent. But the bad man was not
crushed. He pushed the 3d. back. “You’re
a nice girl,” he said. “I like to help on a
girl like you. Give me threepenn’orth
more!”
TOE LESSER EVIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My philosophic neighbor Fred
Is to a tearing vixen wed.
This afternoon in grief to me
His scratches he exposed. Said he:
“I’d tax you bachelors. Behold,
Here are my reasons manifold!
Since we must bear the nails, you Jacks
Should willingly endure the tax!”
VICTORIA.
S. S.


r^
/ w
i \\
'S ' )
X 2
JJ>
Ck.
&
c^ # i mr i
L
M*. s
?if
■/■/ / \jlfM *» .if $f
■' ** Vj/.fls* SWigfiS
Sw
/Ik
rv
•■ v?\/
x X \ /
r
w
i //
\
7 \ V/ \* / //
A ,k\ \ i l ///
p\ A \ ! I ///
’ \y \ ( 1 ,:' /// i
sii
[.•'.■si'S
i-511
X \
’ /
/V \ ’
%
’■ \
Fx v
ft
V.
1
m
m
%
m
w
PI !i
Mazda
B.T.H
ft
y
m
\
nSn
MRS ALADDIN
WASHING ‘
Dome here
THE MAZDA GENIE PRESENTS ALADDIN’S MOTHER WITH A
G.E. ELECTRIC PLAT-IRON.
Aladdin Series
No. 4.
g.l fbi
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
CITY 35nT(5 N Unes). Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Eta.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Cbas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
CENTRAL 2647^ E CITY 9579. MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Luminous
Radium Dial Wristlet,
Watch, Solid Silver Case, Full
Jewelled Lever. Movement, £3,
£3/10/- Gold Filled, £4/10/-
Solid Gold,. £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
Kept, in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold Bat-
talion Color
Signet Ring,
25/-. Lady’s size,
21/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring,
9ct., 15/-
15ct„ 80/-
18ct., 35/-
Gent.’s 9ct.,
22/6;
15ct., 40/-
18ct., 50/-
-
§m
A. Saunders’ Double-case Solid
Silver Hunting Keyless Watch,
full chronometer balance, patent non-
magnetic time-spring, accurate and reli-
able, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4, £5; Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £lO.
Kept in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
set Diamonds and Peridots, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Three
Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones, 20/-
A. Saunders’
9 c t. Gold
Ring, set Beauti-
ful Cameo, 15/-
Other styles,
10/., 12/6.
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Ring, set Double-
cut Diamond,
£2/10/- Larger
Diamond, £3,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
1 5c t. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls or Aquama-
rines, £5/10/-
AU Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
1 8c t. Gold
Ring, set five
pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring, £l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and
Platinoid Brooch, set diamonds and
Ruby, £5.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set P ure >
double-cut Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise, 25/-
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG POST FREE.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Patent Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, Full Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, accurate and reliable, £7/10/- 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-, £l5. other Grades, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and Platinoid
Brooch, set Diamonds, Pearls and Aquamarine,
£6/10/-
1
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Claw
Set King, set
Garnet, 25 /-
15ct, 40/-
18ct., 50/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Three Bar,
Diamond Cluster Brooch, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Brooch, set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, 25/-
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Gipsy Setting
Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£5/10/-,
£7/10/-,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
15c t. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Scroll
Brooch, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2/10/-
AH Diamonds, £5,
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Obd. Railway Station)
A. Saunders’ Military
Wristlet Watch, Nickel or
Gunmetal Case, Jewelled Lever
Movement, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-.
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
Solid Gold, £4/10/-, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding
Ring,
9ct., 20/-
loct., 25/-
18ct., 30/-
Heavier, 40/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold,
Wedding
King,
9ct., 10/-,
15ct., 15/-
18ct., 20/-,
Heavier, 30/-
A. Saunders’ special Nonmag-
netic Open-face Lever Watch,
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof, pat
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof,
patent adjusted balance, 20/-, 25/-,
30 /-. Guaranteed for 20 years and
kept in free repair one year.
Zxj&una
Cures Eczema.
Frederick Street, Camperdown. Mr. S. Fielder,
Randwick. Dear Sir, —I have received great benefit
from your Skin Cure “Exzerma,” for Prickly Heat
and Chafe, and I will be pleased to recommend it to
anybody I see suffering from the same distressing
trouble. —Ernest Bird.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick. 2j(j
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OP PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana,, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. AVill Power (Personal
Magnetism), If- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
op the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook. 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatcliford), lOd.
The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
por All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
&
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prof. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/8 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide. 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWEstablished 25 Years.
ONLY A SMAIX IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking .
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, bv
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERX BEAR, Cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (only)


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH 0. McINIOSH.
pi VOII THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"I VOLI
THEATRE,
MELBODIiNI
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
SYDNEY JAMES, MADELINE ROSSITER, GWEN
LEWIS, CONNIE MILNE, W. G. DESMOND, GEO.
GRAYSTONE.
Also, Degnon and Clifton, Cardo and Noll, The
Togos, Mennetti and Sidelli, Bertie Ford, Merlin and
the Skatelles.
Plan at Glen’s.
Her ma,i e s ty’s, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE GIRL IN THE TRAIN.
SATURDAY NEXT.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
(“Sydney’s Own”) in
SO LONG, LETTY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s,
KITEIt I O N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF DAMAGED GOODS.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 18.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce a newly-
organised Dramatic Company, headed by FLORENCE
KOCKWELL, in the first performance in Australia of
COMMON CLAY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDN E V.
Sole Direction ALLEN DOONE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE PARISH PRIEST.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 18.
ALLEN DOONE presents Andrew Mack’s greatest
Australian success,
TOM MOO HE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at the White Rose.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Q ARDEN THEATRE,
Hayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1 ■/.. Reserved, 2/6.
vv?
Triangle prays - at
THE RYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer's Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Bamiington Miller, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Scintillating
Musical Success,
THE CINEMA ST All.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/*
TiIEA T R E ROY A E, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 18.
•I. C. WILLTAMSON LTD. present JULIUS
KNIGHT in Wilson Barrett’s Famous Play,
THE SIGN OE THE CROSS.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
P~ RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 18.
Reappearance of the
ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEARIAN CO. in
HAMLET.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELIIOUIiN E.
Lessees... .Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL and BEAUMONT SMITH present
a- Successful Adaptation of HENRY LAWSON’S
Famous Books,
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
ARCADIA, ST] HILDA, MELBOURNE.
M Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
THE PINK DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen’s
and Habers’.
E» IRC II & CARROLL
M (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland fop the General Film
Oompanv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
PUL L E R’S HOTEL. MELBOURNE
■ (adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
CAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do uot have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4-CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied.
gdfg
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse ail substitutes.
THE GRASP-IT SCREW-DRIVER
Just what everybody wants. Holds the
screw going in or coming out. Never
slips or misses. Saves dropping
screws into machinery. No more
scarred wood-
work. Places
screws tn tight
corners and awkward positions, Tempered steel blade, full
nickelled, hardwood handle ; a reliable tool. Suits large or
small screws. Price J/5, or TWO for 2/6, we pay carriage.
The Union Company. 299 Elizabeth Street,, Melbourne.,
dfg
If You Want a
Good “Knockabout”
Watch —get
the “Boyproof.”
We call it “Boyproof” because the double-
back case, stem wind and set make it practi-
cally foolproof. Gives honest service for
many a year.
Boundary Riders, Teamsters, Schoolboys,
Campers, should invest in the “BOY-
PROOP” Watch. Stands plenty of rough
and tumble in all sorts of conditions.
Price 6/6 Post Free.
\2
eo\
10
4
8
m
Send for our Catalogues of Watches, Rings, Jewellery, Military Souvenirs, etc.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—and then hear
the GRAMOLA!
Hear them all. every instrument that is
built to resemble “His Master’s Voice”
models—hear them all, and then hear the
Gramola. Thus only can you appreciate
the remarkable difference—the clarity of
reproduction, the resonance of tone, the
absence of harshness and vibration.
The most complete test you could make
must perforce result in favor of
t\V
HIS MASTER’S VOICE,
for there are no other instruments capable of such true-to-life
renditions.
W yM«ertV r
Gramola Cabinet Grands —
No. 1. —Choicest Circassian Walnut, £67 10/-
No. 2.—Satin-finished Oak or Mahogany, £s7|lof-
Many other models at lower prices. AsJ? for
catalogue and record lists from your dealer or
from ns— >
•• gramophone ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
dgfdfgfg
SHOES
THAT
LAST LONGER
shoes that are made not only for
appearance, but for comfort, longer
weai’, and all-round “rightness” are
ABBEY SHOES
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a GLACE KID BAL.,
with PATENT LEATHER TOE-
CAPS.
Price - 26/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney,
George hotel.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
p.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference ot
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main. Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place ot
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per clay,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/*
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Genuine Dutch Pipes
THE PERFECTION OF SMOKING
dfgdfg
Nearly a Yard Long.
COOL AND SWEET
ONLY those who have smoked a Real Dutch
Pipe know how different is'the flATor ot
tobacco, how cool aud sweet and free from all
unpleasant taste and odour. These are Genuine
Dutch Pipes, with natural Cherry or polished
white wood stem, porcelain howl and fittings,
ebonite mouthpiece with flexible connection and
fine cord and tassel; over 30 inches in length.
Dlt. LB MANG, of Eudunda, S.A., wrote:— I
am very pleased with >my Dutch 1
exactly whftt |I wanted for years,
r _ paving bought these Pipe*
very cheaply, we are gelling them at
only 6/6 each
(worth double), and we peek oarefnllj and
pay carriage to any address. tbu should
treat yourselt to one or m*ke jour friend
* nice present. Will soon b» »H »*
this price.
The Union Com?s^ny
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured, with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
Germany uses nationalism to crush indi-
vidual liberty. Free countries must use it
to fortify individual liberty by securing
national safety. So inspiretli that wise
spirit King George IV. topnotch Scotch.
—Advt.
ĝf
dgf
George 3*
Tv.o features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM POX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
Source $t
Th*; Picture BlocK
Sydney 4
dfg
dgf
ƒg
If the saddle is not scientifically designed
your cycling comfort can never be
complete therefore always specify a
BROOKS
« OF ALL DEALERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bill Hughes, Bill Holman-—what about
neglecting them for a while and giving a bit
of attention to Billjim?
NOTHING BUT HEAVY SWELLS.
THE GOOD GIRL : “ She’s got terribly high
notions, hasn't she?”
THE BAD MAN: “Not the word for it! She
wouldn't live near the sea for fear of
knowing a low tide.”
After the Libs and Labs we get a new
party—the Grabs.
Griffith, on resigning from the Holman
Ministry last week, had an interview with
Ins old tennis opponent, Gov. Strickland, and
explained the position. But for that explana-
tion there might not have been any political
crisis two or three days afterwards.
“Adelaide for Culture.” Join Adelaide
with Sydney, and spell it Kultur.
The president of the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council on the Coal Strike: —
The view of Laborites is that as coal is a public
utility and is indispensable to the carrying on of
industry and the ordinary avocations of life, it
should be nationalised. If that had been done the
present trouble would not have occurred. National
control is especially applicable in time of war,
when it is necessary to conserve to the utmost degree
the resources of the nation.
It is the very ABC of democratic doctrine,
and only few plutocrats and unteachable
Tories no», deny it. But Victoria has a
State coal-mine at Wonthaggi, and the
workers there go on strike oftener than in
almost any other mine or works in Australia.
In this latest trouble, though they had no
quarrel, they promptly struck at the bid-
ding of the Newcastle authorities. Where,
then, is the guarantee of “national safety”
in Government ownership of coal-mines? It
is the spirit of the workers that needs
nationalising first.
HIS MASTER’S VOICE.
THE PUP: “Pm not goin’ to let this machine
dictate to me any longer."
The N.- S. Wales Assembly is quite cynical
about some of its most unpleasant habits.
Once, while Durack was speaking to his cen-
sure motion, the House fairly rocked with
laughter. Looking unusually solemn, the
new Labor leader said that he meant to make
a very grave charge against the Holman
Government. This Government, lie under-
stood, intended to gerrymander the next elec-
tions by shifting large bodies of men to
public works in some electorates and away
from others. It was just there the storm
of laughter broke. For everybody re-
membered that six years ago, when Hol-
man forecasted “a vigorous works policy,”
some jobs were found to be urgently neces-
sary in the very electorate which Durack
was running for. And even then he only
won by a narrow majority.
Another curse has returned to the old fowl-
yard. When the Vic. session opened Pre-
mier Peacock promised among his earliest
measures an Industrial Peace Preservation
Pill, which was to hand out pretty solid
penalties to employees who struck work witk-
out first taking a secret ballot
of those concerned. But the
Trifler was bluffed into the
belief that he couldn’t pass it,
so he . postponed the measure
sine die. Yet it would have
passed all right, and under it
those Wonthaggi miners who
have now helped to put the
State’s industrial undertakings
in a hole at almost a moment’s
notice would have been forced
to. give themselves time to think
things over and to realise the
full effect of what they were
doing. As to what they in-
tended to do when they set out
on their “sympathy” strike,
Heaven only knows: what they
have actually done is to knock
out one of the old arguments in
favor of State enterprises, cause
suffering to their wives and
children, baulk their mates of
financial assistance, help throw
out of a job thousands of other
workers, cause loss to many other disinter-
ested and friendly individuals, and indirectly,
but none the effectively, hqlp those who
would cheerfully slit their throats to-day and
will do them, out of a job to-morrow —the
Huns.
They were merely arguing the matter: —
“Liar and blackmailer.”
“Apostate.”
“You are a dirty beast.”
“Tell'him to go" to Hell.”
“I (aged 70) will pull your nose.”
Gome on and 111 settle vou.” (Proceedings
adjourned to allow him to do it.)
It all happened in the N. S. Wales Assembly
the other night, the question at issue being
whether it was not the duty of the House to
reward itself for its virtues and business-like
habits by hanging on to its job for at least
11 months more than it had been elected for.
As Premier Vaughan (S.A.) holds a seat
which the Labor party knows it can’t win
with a new candidate, he has been beckoned
into the ark with two colleagues. But
Vaughan will not go. “If there is any
drowning to be done,” he says, “I prefer to
drown with my loyal comrades.” Vaughan
is right. And the Labor party is wrong. It
was never so good and honest and useful as
when it had no hope of a majority in the
House. It lost most of its virtues when it
was prepared to do anything and swallow
anybody for the sake of numbers. It never
will be much good again until it spurns not
only the member but also the elector who has
to be bought.
A man named Walsh, an agent of the
A.M.P. Society, was informed during the
recent conscription campaign that he must
leave off taking an active part in it. Walsh
replied that he took part in the controversy
as a citizen and only in his own time, but
was instructed that that didn’t matter: —
The society itself has no politics, and the direc-
tors have consequently always laid it down that no
member of the society’s staff, either indoor or out-
door, shall take active part in any controversy on
matters in respect of which the community is
divided.
It is time, if this is so, that the directors of
the society laid down something else. The
humblest agent of the A.M.P. is no less a
citizen than the chairman of the society ; and
nobody protested or thought of protesting
against Alfred Meeks taking the platform as
an advocate of Conscription. Nor has any-
one the right to protest against general-
manager Teece getting on his feet at a meet-
ing of the Civil Service Co-operative Stores
Co. and leading the opposition to a proposal
which is dividing the three or four thousand
members and causing heated controversy. If
the A.M.P. were 10 times as big as it is it
would have no right to interfere with the
citizenship rights of Meeks or Teece or
Walsh ; and if it insists on doing it, it is an
institution far less worthy of the admiration
of this country than it has been hitherto
believed to be.
Canberra is a fairly horrible example, but
if the trans-continental railway is not worse
quite a lot of people are ready to swallow
a locomotive. The original estimate of the
work was £3,000,000. A million more than
that has been spent already. There is
another two years’ work ahead, and the cer-
tainty of the bill reaching £6,000,000. Either
the “facts” on which the line was author-
ised were grotesquely wrong or there has
been the most stupendous loaf in history.
And the cost of one or the other set of cir-
cumstances or of both is going to hang
round the neck of Australia for all time, like
the dead weight of a thousand alligators.
THE VOICE OF EXPERIENCE.
THE UNMARRIED ONE: “It is always better
to laugh than to cry, you know.”
THE MARRIED ONE: “ Not if you're trying to
manage a husband.”
The 19 “official” Labor members who re-
mained true to the N. S. Wales P.L.L. Ex-
ecutive over the conscription business are
not, to put it mildly, the ablest men in the
crowd. Durack, the leader, was chosen to
put the censure motion through simply
because he anticipated and moved to check-
mate the coalition schemes of the wily Pre-
mier. But when the real leader of the nine-
teeners is being chosen the claims of John
Storey, the four-hour leader of the party
during the recent dust-up with the Labor
conference, will have very strong support.
If the people of N. S. Wales are in such
an agitated state of mind that, they are not
to be trusted to use their votes sensibly, what
about their Savings Bank deposits? If their
votes are to be taken from them for 12 months
lest they misuse them, Parliament ought at
the same time, to be consistent, impound
their deposits for a year, too; There would
be quite as much justification for doing one
as the other.
A HARR DOER.
HE: “Is she so interesting to talk to?”
SHE: “Not to—about.”
Durack, the temporary leader of N. S.
Wales Laborites, still in the thirties, some-
what cuff-and-collary, smooth of skin, of
marked forbearance and urbanity, and nur-
tured in a pure atmosphere of Liberalism, is
about the last man in the world that would
be suspected of being a Labor leader. Dis-
daining to speak in the House for the first
12 months, his party was beginning to sus-
pect him of encouraging cold feet when he
broke ice by moving the Address-in-
Reply. With a view of giving him a lift
in his electorate he was then made a tempo-
rary chairman of committees, and soon
showed capacity. Lord Mayor Speaker
Meagher was a busy man, and Deputy-
Speaker Thrower was often acting. This
made Durack about of commit-
tees.. Presently, in the midst of a busy
session, Thrower w r as taken to hospital, and
Durack as a consequence became about
■f-Spgaker. His speech on the censure
motion was his second in Parliament. This
should be somewhere near a record. After
the way Disraeli took in the tipsters it is
safest to predict nothing. However, this
much might be said. Durack is level-headed,
and this' is saying a whole lot these times
when Laborism generally has straws in its
hair and corks on its hat.
The S. Aus. Assembly has passed the
second reading of a Bill forbidding instruc-
tion in schools to be given in any language
but English. It is aimed at the surprisingly
frequent German institutions in pountry
places, and CoomDe (lately editor of the
Labor daily Herald) was the onlv appar
ent dissentient. He called it “un-British."
which it probably is, “British” standing for
most things that are stupidly “generous” in
this connection.
The report of a committee of the Leg.
Council of S. Aus. on the Glenelg break-
water contract, which was increased from
£32,000 to £llO,OOO without Parliament
being consulted, is one of the most savage
things of its kind on record: —
No urgency had been shown for making a new
contract without the consent of Parliament.... The
contractors, because of their failure to complete the
contract, were permitted, without public or private
tendering, to obtain a new contract at their own
price and for their own design. They are being paid
for the work under the first contract on the basis
of the new contract, namely, £lO 9s. 2d. in lieu
of £6 12s. a cubic yard.... The Harbors Board
failed in its responsibility to the public.... The
statements made in Parliament in explanation of the
action of the Government have been proved by the
evidence to be inaccurate and misleading. . . .The
action of the Government was irregular and unneces-
sary, and will involve the State in a heavy annual
loss.
The thing cannot be left at that. If ever
there was a case for a judicial commission
this is it. The proper course is to ask for
the loan of a Supreme Court Judge of a
sister »Slate. If he should say that this
Parliamentary committee’s report is justified,
there should be afterwards no room in
politics for the Ministers responsible.
Just before the formal split in the N. S.
Wales Parliamentary Labor party last week
Speaker Meagher allotted separate quarters
for the use of the new wing. The occupying
of separate rooms generally means something
in Divorce presently.
AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Land of the lofty mountain-balconies,
Where breezes laugh and loiter to and fro ;
Of leafi' halls and colonnades of trees,
The distant dust-cloud rising from the slow
Column of pattering sheep ; of hills that ring
With swinging axes flashing to the blow ;
Of mines and golden quartz, and richer gold
Of wattle-trees in Spring ;
Of blossoming plains, and painted birds, and old
Luggers that roll to morning-seas a swing!
Land of the singing days and dancing light;
Of young and laughing cities; and of lone
Spaces where silence tip-tocs through the night;
Of noons that drowse to lotus-odors blown,
Lazy from pearly beach and purple bay;
Of galloping monsoon-hooves careering down
The flooded roads o’ the skj r , and deluging
A continent with spray ;
Of stars that sail the seas of night, or swing
In busy harbors of the Milky Way !
Land that was like some goddess, throned in light,
Guarded by screens of ocean-cavalry,
And doubly-guarded by the dazzling-bright
Swords of the sun. so that she seemed to be,
Unto those first weak wooers who ventured near
A menacing, barbaric deity ;
Till on a destined day there came a bold
Hover who knew no fear;
M ho saw no goddess, but a girl to hold ;
A maiden eager for the wedding-year !
And so this last among the lands of earth
Yielded her beauty to the will of man.
And true to her adventurous mate, gave birth
To hero-children, in whose blood there ran
Her sunlit vigor and her lazy grace;
Whose eyes were morning-clear, and keen to scan
And scorn old follies ; and who seemed to stand
Strong and uncommonplace:
A' clean young nation, with an out-stretched hand
Greeting the world, firm-foot, and face to face.
MAORI]. A XI).
BARTLETT ADAMSON.


PALING’S PIANOS
and PLAYEK PIANOS
s AMes
Sanies l-iano
Model 94,
Good to LooK at
upon
lhe ordinary piano-buyer knows very little about what
is most important in a new piano. Therefore, it is most
important to take our advice. WE, with our vast experience
of successful and honest piano-selling, know real piano value
and are not satisfied till we get it. YOU, when you buy a
Piano or Player Piano at Paling’s, get the benefit of this in
lasting satisfaction.
f
Chappell
Bijou
Grand.
See the . ,
Chappell Pianos
and Sames Pianos
When a piano leaves our showrooms we
have the satisfaction of knowing that we have
given the customer genuine value, whether the
purchase made was an exquisite Boudoir Grand,
a massive Upright Grand, or an ordinary
Cottage Model. Every piano we sell sells
another, because of its beautiful tone-quality
and extraordinary durability in severe climates.
We will gladly write
you full particulars.
dgf
Hear the . .
Estey Pianos
and Victor Pianos
If you have an old piano we shall be pleased
to take it in exchange for a new Piano or
Player Piano, and allow you its honest valua-
tion.
We cordially invite you to call at our ware-
house and inspect the beautiful models now
showing. If you cannot conveniently call, please
Write for Free Catalogue SKM
and printed Price List.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba
Newcastle & Lismore
Sir Joshua Bartlett’s book,
“The Home Doctor,”
describing the New
Treatment for
CATARRH
Deafness, Ear and Head
Noises, Accumulations of
Phlegm, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Nasal Obstructions, etc., etc.
\J
mm* s
&
Q|f
“The Home Doctor” is a plain-spoken
book which gives an immense amount of
information about Catarrh, Asthma, Bron-
chitis and all kindred troubles, and tells
how sufferers can obtain immediate relief
and a permanent cure under an inexpen-
sive method which is the only one of its
kind in the world. It has been translated
into Trench, Italian, Russian, Portuguese,
Spanish and Dutch, and the Treatment it
advocates has been described by eminent
physicians and chemists as the ONLY one
in the world that reaches the whole of
the affected parts and eliminates the
Catarrhal Poisons from the System.
Thousands of people have already been
PERMANENTLY cured of Nose, Throat,
Ear and Chest Affections. Sir Joshua
Bartlett’s Method is unique. With amaz-
ing rapidity it brings relief, banishes
coughs, stops expectorations, relieves the
stuffiness and tightness, improves the
hearing, stops the sneezing, cuts away the
phlegm, and in a .few weeks effects a
permanent cure.
\ou may have been disappointed by
other methods making- similar claims, but
remember the great reputation of the in-
ventor, Sir Joshua Bartlett—a name
honored the world over for his contribu-
tions to science, and who has been decor-
ated by the French Government, the King
of Spain, etc., etc.
If you suffer from breathing troubles,
Catarrh, Bronchial .Disorders, Deafness,
Asthma, Discharges from the Nose,
Phlegm in the Throat, Noises in the Head
and Ears, Hay Fever, and Consumption
in its early stages, you will be surprised
and delighted at your rapid progress
under the Treatment within the first fort-
night, and your PERMANENT cure
within a few weeks.
Every fourth person has Catarrh. It
begins with running at the nose, the
result of catching cold. If neglected, it
soon becomes chronic. Then it passes to
the Throat, the Stomach and the Bowels.
It poisons the whole system.
FREE To-day!
Over 300,000 copies of
“The Home Doctor” have
been distributed in the
United Kingdom, and YOU
may obtain a copy by send-
ing 3d. in stamps for post-
age, etc., and filling in and
sending the Coupon below.
MESSRS. KVNEROL LABORATORIES PROPRIETARY, BOX 2555,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
. Please send me, post free, a copy of iI THE HOME DOCTOR,” author-
ised by Sir Joshua Bartlett, for ichich I enclose 3d. in stamps. (State
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss.)
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, 16/11/’l 6.
Good Will Steadily Spreading
Dodge Brothers have built aud
delivered over thirteen million
pounds worth of cars in the past
year and a half.
The car has now reached the
stage where its sales are almost
automatically increased.
By this we mean that one sale
is almost certain to result in one
or two other sales.
The simple truth about how the
car stands with the public is hard
to put'into words because it sounds
like boasting.
It is a common occurrence with
dealers, everywhere, to have a man
walk in and drive out without
wasting time asking questions.
The fact is that the average
owner is not merely satisfied, but
almost extravagantly enthusiastic.
You must have noticed that the
first thing said about the car. in
ordinary conversation, is almost
always a direct reference to its
quality.
People have arrived at the con-
clusion that the Dodge Brothers
give the manufacture of the car
an unusual degree of personal
attention; and that the car is
riglP, down to the smallest detail.
The’-e is a widespread feeling
that they take an intense personal
pride in perfecting the product
that bears their name.
Both of these conclusions are
correct.
As we have said before, the
Dodge Brothers are the actual,
active superintendents, engineers,
managers and owners of this busi-
ness.
Before they began to build their
own car they had built the vital
parts for more than half a million
other cars.
A 1! of this experience, and all
that followed it —coupled with
intense pride in their own product
and love of the work itself—keeps
up a continuous process of im-
provement.
They have concentrated on one
car. and one car only, in a deter-
mination to make it as good as a
car can be made.
For every part and every process
that enters into it they have per-
sonally established a standard.
The work done and the materials
used in each part, and each pro-
cess, in every car, roust conform to
dm; standard.
The factories now cover over 60
acres of floor space —and are still
growing-—-but there is no depart-
ment so remote that it does not
feel the influence of the Dodge
Brothers* personal direction.
This intense watchfulness ac-
counts. of course, for the remark-
able things you hear about the
performance of the car.
In its first year it has acquired
a wonderful hold on the good
opinion of the public—and it has
not developed a single fault worth
talking about.
That it will steadily grow bet-
ter under the Dodge Brothers’
generalship goes without saying.
The petrol consu tnption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers. Detroit
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.. Sydney; Messrs. Canada Cycle
and Motor Co., Ltd., Melbourne; Messrs. Cheney Motor Company.
Ltd.. Adelaide; Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.. Pertli;
Messrs. Dalgety & ('ompan;f, Ltd., Brisbane; Messrs. Co-opera-
,f. s ’ ptd” Hobart; Messrs. Magnus. Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Wellington; Mr. George Henning, Auckland; Mr. Newton
King, Ngw Plymouth; Messrs. Hawkes, Ltd., Christchurch;
Messrs. Cossens & Black, Ltd-, Dunedin; Mr. P. H. Vickery,
Invercargill.


FREE
SAMPLE
BOTTLE
Dr. Parker’s Greatlndian
Rheumatic Remedy.
WONDERFUL RECOVERY TO HEALTH
AND STRENGTH.
I suffered terrible agony from Uric Acid
Poisoning. All the joints were swollen, stif-
fened and inflamed, and were becoming dis-
torted. My head ached incessantly; I suffered
from drv retching. DR. PARKER’S GREAT.
INDIAN RHEUMATIC REMEDY acted like
a charm. I am free from pain, my skin is
clear, and my appetite good. I shall recom-
mend your treatment to other sufferers.
Yours gratefully, MABEL LYNKLATER,
08 West Street, North Sydney.
Write to-day for Free Sample and
Book (postage 3d.) to
F. PARKER, 111 Willoughby Road,
North Sydney.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
dfg
try it in your bath
BV
APPOINTMENT
dfg
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Wr f ,
W
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Tlie belated Melbourne Cup race was a
big success, after all, notwithstanding the fact that
a one-time favorite in Kilboy had gone amiss during
the four days’ postponement. On a deadened, drying
course the race was run at a pace which precluded
the possibility of the prize being captured by an
undeserving gee. Most of the running was made by
Prince Bardolph, and, with Amata close behind, the
leading colors for the first mile or so were mostly
a study in white and black. To the crowd that
viewed the struggle through glasses from afar off
it seemed that both of the white-and-blacks were
going strong until Stageland’s blue and pink rushed
into prominence. Then the crowd began to talk
loudly of Lucky Escape and Sasanof, but all the time
the followers of Shepherd King were quietly con-
fident. The colors of the King had always been in
the picture, and not until Sasanof’s yellow jacket
gleamed conspicuous at the last turn did the crowd
in general doubt that Bobby Lewis was going to
take the lead presently. Lewis himself stated after
the race that he foresaw the victory of the Maoriland
colt when they had still seven furlongs to go. The
coming result became apparent to all when the
straight was arrived at. The colt was slipping along-
easily near the rails, whilst Shepherd King, laboring
to catch him, was losing ground by inches. The
finish was a procession. The crowd placed the first two.
horses long before the leader passed the judge’s box
with 2-1 lengths to spare. The third horse, away
back, had colors which suggested Bridges, but proved
to be the dark tartan and cerise cap of St. Spasa.
Still further behind came Lingle, who had passed
Wolaroi and Lucky Escape in the run home, but
had possibly got there on sufferance.
Of the strongly-fancied candidates Quinologist,
Wallace Isinglass and Torbane performed very badly
in a field of 28. But where were the despised out-
siders when the final struggle began? With the
exception of St. Spasa the four placed horses had
been first favorites at one time or other, _ and three
of the first four favorites on the day finished first,
second and fifth. Sasanof went out at 12 to 1
because the public was put off him by stories con-
cerning his suspicious-looking- hock, and the books
paid little heed to the fact that the stable thought
the hock didn’t matter for the time being. Punters
who went to look at the Maoriland colt in the bn u-
cage could see but little swelling. The trouble had
been arrested in its development, if there ever was
a trouble worth making a song about. So Sasanot
did the trick and form triumphed.
* * * *
Stead and Luttrel, joint-owners of Sasanof
and Kilboy, and Stead, sole owner of two or three
other nags, will carry back a fair-sized wad to
Maoriland. Thev did well at Randwick in stakes
and bets, and though Kilboy’s performance rubbed
a bit of gilt off the gingerbread the bite taken out of
the V.R.C. and MacShortodds was big _ enough for
anyone. Sasanof, though backed to win at Caul-
field, was steadily supported for the big two miles
and they got in bright, and early. Sasanof was
really a better horse from the owners’ point of
view to win with than Kilboy would have been, for
had the colt won the Derby bis price would have
o-rown horribly short. Even as it was he went to a
very close margin before being downed by Wolaroi,
and this maintained a nice market for Sasanof all
the time. Later on, while the gelding was shortening,
there was money for him ; and after he “went lame,
owing to serious trouble in the hock,” more cash
was wheeled up by someone for the more liberal
odds on offer. Yes; it was a good thing. As this
page has taken occasion to remark on a previous
occasion, Sasanof is hot stuff.
* # * *
Within 15 years 10 horses have been, placed
in tlie Melbourne Cup after getting a “shop’ at Caul-
field: Vanity Fair, Acrasia, Poseidon, Apologue,
Tulkeroo, Apple Pie, Flavian, Uncle Sam, Sasanof
and Shepherd King. Poseidon was the only one
to win both Cups. Acrasia and Apologue scored a
second and a first.
* * * *
Big events administer some curious side-
kicks. The Referendum happened along just when
the tide of Cun half-sovereigns should have been flow-
in. towards Tatt.’s. The result was that instead ot
having two big sweeps full, No. 1 had to close down
with 85.000 subscribers instead of the usual 100,000.
* * * *
“Floater”: Vic. bookies in the paddock
differ in their method of expressing their lacer-
ated feelings at the institution of the new betting
tax. Some show their annoyance by refusing the
five shillings of the humble investor and insisting on
a minimum of half a sovereign for all investments.
Others, depending more on the support of the five-bob
brigade, try to get even by offering disgracefully
short odds, ranging from about 20 to 1 on a rank
outsider to even money on a moderate favorite.
The fact that 2 and 3 to 1 were considered a fair
thing for Shepherd King in a field of 28, whereof
about a dozen were stronglv supported, demonstrates
the deep sense of injury with which Isaac Noses is
meeting the demand to pay the Government a trifle
for the privilege of robbing the public.
* * * *
The books, as usual, said the Cup waS “a
bad race” for them. Bad to pronounce, perhaps
they meant. What price Tliathanof, Thepherd King
and Thaint Thpatha? * #
Ike had a bad time at Victoria Park
(Sydney) on Saturday, and great was his wail ot
anguish. Of the nine races five were appropriated
by actual first favorites and two by solid second
fancies. One turn-up —a 33 to 1 shot-caused the
suit to shine for a moment on the inhabitants ot
Israel—except one man who laid £lOO to £3 to
the owner of Gold Twist. Ike has been copping it
hot on the Sydney pony courses lately, and a number
of mushroom bookmakers have retired to their foimei
avocations. . *
* * * *
Trainer-owner Ryan had almost a field
day at Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday. Ills colt
Blazing Hot had two runs—first m the Maiden Han-
dicap, six furlongs, in which he was beaten by
Krithia and Kenveine; and second in the Kogarali
Stakes, one mile, which he landed in fine style.
Ryan’s gelding Tarpan secured the Carlton Mile, but
was not backed for much. The most pleasing fea-
ture about these successes is that the sire of the
nao-s was Tartan. As Malt King also claimed a win-
ner, Australian-bred horses broke even with the
Pommy on one day, anyway.
* * *
The Malt King filly Princess Path is
proving a good advertisement for the dad that was
a champion on Australian racecourses in his day.
Already this speedy flapper has landed a couple of
races in a style which suggests that bigger things may
come. Princess Path’s second victory was at Moore-
field on Saturday, when, with 9st., she won on the
bit by three lengths. That this was not unexpected
is shown by the starting price—6 to 4 on. A fort-
night previously Princess Path landed a two-year-old
event at Canterbury Park, beating among others
Carafon, who a week earlier had appropriated
an event at Warwick Farm. Princess Path led all the
way on Saturday and cut out the 4j furlongs in
58see., which is 3f sec. outside the Australasian
record put up by Woorak at Randwick in October,
1913, when that flier was two years old. Woorak
carried Bst. and Moorefield is not Randwick as far
as time-making is concerned.
* * * *
Owner S. H. Rawdon, incensed at the
action of the Williamstown stipes who fined his
trainer Skirving a tenner for taking a whip to the
unruly Hayston at the starting-post without per-
mission, has vowed to race no more in Victoria.
He will continue to send his Worses to Sydney, Adel-
aide and Tasmanian meetings, however. The in-
dignant sportsman, who is a member of the Williams-
town R.C., started the boycott by scratching his can-
didates for the Williamstown Cup, which proceeding
punishes early punters more than the club. Blague
and Hayston were both fancied.
*.*„.**
“Mujik”: This business of looking for
winners on weight, form, breeding, pull, etc., makes
me tired. Take the Melbourne Cup. It was as
easy as tumbling into a pub. And some people
knew it. There was the yarn that Shepherd King
was good goods because someone started a rumor
about the animal having been squashed by a tram,
and as a similar canard about Mentor and a train
had been circulated in ’BB, Shepherd King was bound
to prevail like the other animal. Then there was a
gag about Quinologist and there being 11 letters in
the moke’s name and these being No. 11 on the list
and so on. Punters who go on that sort of thing
don’t know the game. I have it down to a fine point.
A month ago I grabbed the card and saw it in one,
“Stead’s br. g. Sasanof” —16 letters; the Cup of
’l6. Therefore I sought out Ikey and put the last
shilling on. When the postponement was announced
memory remarked that the Franco-German war was
raging when the event was last adjourned. As there
is a Franco-German disturbance going on now and
Sasanof is winning, “the office’’ simply yelled for
more cash. Full details of How to Interpret Tips are
obtainable on payment of an annual subscription of
£625 2s. 4d. The volume is printed on tripe and
bound in ass’s skin.
* * * #
And this is the parable of the obscure tip
and the missing quids:—•
When the choir had sung “Hail our Shepherd
King" at a Melbourne Church, the Righteous rushed
forth in search of the Children of Israel, who opened
up their bags and displayed gold and silver and the
paper currencv which maketh glad the heart of man
and Bill Higgs. And the Righteous reckoned it was
all over bar shouting, and Bar Von took their
ducats, and they trusted him, and wended their w»ay
to the grandstand, and watched him from afar
trafficking with sinners and publicans and the
Pharisees. And then a great shout went up from the
crowd, and the Righteous went and sat down by the
sodawater and wept, for they had fallen in. And
as they hearkened thev heard hymns of joy arising
from Zion and the popping of many corks. Where-
upon they arose and girded up their loins and wended
their way to the tabernacle, and gave the organist
the sack.
* * # -N *
Walter Lindrum last week beat Clark
McConachy (M.L.) in a 16,000-up billiard match at
Sydney by 3457 points. Lindrum ran up scores of
471 and 413, nine times exceeded 200, and on 38
occasions got over the century. McConachy’s best
figures were 223 and 32 centuries. Last time they
played Lindrum won by 5551 in 18,000.
* * * *
“1.G.”: How sporting is professional
sport! The just-concluded billiard-match between
Walter. Lindrum and the young Maorilander
McConachy in Sydney is a case in point. The talent
generally considered Lindrum all round the better
player, and it looked pretty much of a cert for him
from the word “go.” But he gave nothing away on
that a< ccount. Lindrum’s long suit is cuddling the
balls, about and making cannons in long strings that
are about as interesting to watch as the. manufacture
of sausages. The other chap is at his best as a
hazard-striker, and can make the pocket-fir.ding
business nearly as monotonous as Lindrum’s cannons.
Well, the conditions of the match were fixed so that
the unsophisticated Maoriland .youth was not allowed
to make more than 25 consecutive hazards, whether
off the red or the white, whether winners or losers.
Nobody could reasonably argue that such a restric-
tion is balanced by the rule which makes the cannon-
player use the cushion. It effectively shackled
McConachy. Once when, in making for double-baulk
at the end of his appointed 25 hazards, he holed the
red there was an argument about what penalty should
be imposed. There were other arguments, too, before
the business ended, and most of them went against
the stranger. McCorachy would probably have been
beaten by superior skill, anyway, which makes it all
the. more sinful that he should have been eaged as
he . was, talked; frequently into a state of jumpiness,
and generally subjected to the sort of. treatment that
is handed out .to. a lamb at the abattoirs.
Fritz Holland delivered liimself just under
the fniddle-weight limit at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day to see what he could do to Joe Chip, and
Joe arrived with a heavy wallop to find out what
he could do to Fritz. And as Fritz is a wily old
bird and a very fine boxer he. perpetrated most.. Chip
is a scrapper 'without much science. If he hits he
hurts; if he Tnisses he misses hy a mile. And
mostly Fritz made him miss ’or blocked his biff.
In the tenth collision Chip put Holland down for
nine, but the bald head weathered the storm and
lived to see the journey through. He was very tired
at the end, but got the verdict and deserved it.
Chip made the fight, but didn’t know how to do
any more.
* * * *
Herb McCoy got another hiding on Satur-
day, this time from Llew Edwards. It was done at
Melbourne and decided the lightweight championship,
Edwards having been long enough in Australia to
be eligible for the decoration. The Englishman
is a better boxer than McCoy, though it is not
improbable that McCoy might beat men whom
Edwards would sooner not be worried with. Some-
times McCoy looks like a top-notcher, and on these
occasions probably is one; but at other times his
claims seem fearfully slender. He has fought some
of the finest battles seen in the Australian ring
among men of his weight—and some Of the very
worst. But though he may be getting stale or old
or lazy and has been relieved of the championship,
he still has it in him to argue the point with a
purposeful glove—on his nights* out.
Les Darcy may yet be sorry he left Aus-
tralia. Mike Gibbons has written to a Sydney man
declaring that he intended to come to Australia to
tackle Darcy. A cable message early in the week
told that Gibbons had outpointed Jack Dillon. If
that disturbance was on the level Gibbons is a
long way better than a lot of people thought. Any-
how it is safe to wager that if Darcy has gone to
America Gibbons will remain in his home country
and reap the advantage' of meeting the Australian
there. It would not pay anyone to bring him this
way while Darcy was off the premises.
* * * *
Simultaneously with the skipping of Les
Darcy comes news that Geo. Carpentier has won
the Military Medal for gallantry on active ser-
vice. Pug circles have a lingering hope that
after the war a match will be arranged between the
two. If it comes off, let’s hope that the man who
deserted his country will get a hiding.
* * * *
Barney Donovan,, who skied the towel
after many rounds in a strenuous life, held the light-
weight championship of Maoriland for 12 years. When
Billy Murphy was running round Auckland selling
papers Barney helped to keep the game alive at that
end of the Dominion, and was fit enough to deteat
Murphy for the title before that enterprising young-
ster hit out for these parts and America. In 54
contests only four losses were suffered by Barney.
Amongst these was one against Jack Burke, the lush
lad who lasted four rounds with J. L. Sullivan.
Barney was white all through, and decorated with
one eye. Last time this writer saw him he was
running a booth devoted to scrap with Jim Petten-
gel, now blind and selling matches in Sydney.
* * * *
Sydney Grammar banged Scots College
all over Rusheutters Bay oval last week and amassed
a total of 848 runs. Heslien (243) and Gostello
(140) put up 390 for the first wicket. Sundries
played a splendid innings for 88. When the smash
wa3 over Wing (Grammar) got loose on the tired
Scots and took seven for five, the whole blessed clan
collapsing for 74. The winners’ huge total jumps
into place in Australian school records behind 961
by Melb. 0. of E. Grammar and 916 by Sydney
Grammar.
PETER McALISTER, vIC.
E. L. Waddy played music on the pickets
at Manly (Sydney) on Saturday on behalf
of Western Suburbs against Middle Harbor, and
piled up 193 —the highest individual score in
this season’s cricket premiership. For many
years Waddy was one of the most aggressive
of Sydney cricketers, but since the break-up of
Central Cumberland he hasn’t bothered much, and
with Western Suburbs only aggregated 195 runs in
1914 and 93 in 1915. This season he has hit
270 runs in three innings.
** * *
“Tasman”: Australia has been famous for
the last 40 years as the home of brilliant left-
handed batsmen. Left-handers at cricket are not
particularly common; it is rare to find more than
a couple in a team. Yet the number of inter-
nationals who shape the wrong way round is remark-
able. Followers of cricket in the ’Bo’s and 90 s will
not forget W. Bruce (Vic.) and Harry Moses
(N.S.W.). Then came Joe Darling and Clem Hill,
who have a couple of notable successors in Warren
Bardsley and Vernon Ransford. It takes a bit of
nerve to pick the winner from such a bunch, but
at anv rate it is safe to say that none of the others
has put up a record in first-class cricket,, more par-
ticularly in test matches, which can beat Hill’s. He
scored six centuries in the tests, against Trumpei s
eight, but to appreciate his record one has to
remember the extraordinary number of occasions on
which he reached 96, 97, 98 and 99 without getting
three figures. The last time I saw him bat —-in the
fourth test against the S’Africans in 1911 —he hung
round for five or 10 minutes within two or three
of the hundred. At last he pulled himself together
and made the required smack. Hill has scored
more centuries in big cricket than any other Aus-
tralian.
* * * *
“Tasman” : The aldermen of Hobart spend
a good deal of their time talking about the neces-
sity for providing public recreation grounds—“lungs
where the city can breathe.” They had a chance to
do something in this line only lately. Owing to the
slump in cricket and football the Tasmanian Cricket
Association has had to surrender to the bailiffs, and
as a result the Upper Cricket ground, one of the
finest and most picturesque ovals in Australia, where
all the bigger matches have been played for the past
30 years, has had to close down. The City Council
has been given the opportunity of taking it over at
little more than the amount of the liabilities, which
don’t reach one-tenth of what has been spent m
construction and improvements. But the butchers
and bakers who mostly make up the council don tgo
nap on cricket, and the ground has been let for
grazing.
John R. Needham, dead at St. Kiida
(Vic.), was a warrior at bowls in yeais ag * with
rolled ’em up first with Fitzroy and , cC j
Hawthorn; but particularly he will be
as Father of the Champion of Champions compet and
tions in Victoria, which for a long while he and
with the trophy. The old man had sampled
years.
* * * *
Frank Bennett, the Tasftanian athlete,
after only a few months at St. 1 etei s Con 8 >
Adelaide, has now gone back to the Speck to g
into khaki with his old friends/ He dropped
one of those periods of athletic slump -i iu +
to fall on every school from time to time,
during his stay his vigorous coaolnng helped . b.t'.a.y--
to a narrow vifitorv in the sports tne .
intercollegiate event it has won since the enci oi
1913. The tennis-match is the latest th ”°.
Prince Alfred's credit; they won it by 11 lubbeis
to 4. Two sons of Dr. Hone, a South Aus. .doubles,
champion of 25 years ago, were on the winning ski ■
One young competitor in the championship
events run by the Sydney Junior Harriers on Satur-
day positively refused to get tired. His day b
record: 75yds„ second; 100yds., second; 220yds.,
first; quarter-mile, first; three-quarters, first, hop.
step and jump, first; broad jump, third. Unluckii
a tug of war, high diving, riding buck jumpers an
throwing hardware about had been left off the P
gramme, or he would have had a really busy • '
All the same The Bulletin reckons that youths wbo
do this sort of thing should be seriously spoken to
by a medical man who knows something about tnc
human machine.
* * * *
A footballer who will play the game in
future with difficulty is J. J Rudduck, late ot
Dromana (Vic.) and a star of Richmond. Phi own
out here as unfit he went to England, got passed
into the Lancaster Regiment, and, as lieutenant, took
on a risky job about the time of the Pozieres busi-
ness, and lost his left arm in consequence. Jnow
that he is convalescent England isn’t wasting nun,
he is training recruits, while a younger brother is
getting himself ready to take the other s place m
trance.
• * * *
The drowning season for unskilled surfers
commenced the other day, a young man at Narra-
been being the first to go. It promises to be a
half-mast season, unless the venturesome bathei
realises that most Sydney beaches have been cleared
of their best life-savers by the war. Some ot the
life-saving clubs can hardly raise a team this j ear ,
and if the experts had difficulty in preventing
tragedies in past seasons there are likely .to be
double tragedies now that they are away taking the
life-line out to civilisation.
* * * *
If the U.S. keeps on buying cars at the
present rate, in five years’ time every tenth person
will own some sort of mechanical cockroach on
wheels. That means that every second family will
own some sort of car-shelter. Prices of the cheaper
makes are still climbing down. One trade prediction
is that it will be possible next year for the Yank to
get a serviceable car for something like £SO. A good
bicycle used to cost £25. The huge production ot the
factories has made the whirring marvel possible. A
million and a half cars will be made before 1910
ends, and a rumor says that Ford alone will make a
million in 1917.
* * * *
“Condamine”: This is a sure, safe and
sudden method of clearing the barrel of gun or rifle
of an obstruction. Hold the weapon muzzle down-
wards and onen the breech; fill the space between
the breech and obstruction with wafer ; extract the
business end of a cartridge put a little piece ot
paper in on top of the powder and pull the triggei.
It will not damage the gun in any way, no matter
what the blockade consists of. P.S. —Before pulling
the trigger put the blank cartridge in the gun.
“Trooper Bluegum”: I’m satisfied that
nothing else provides half the amusement we get but
of chameleon hunting in the Wilderness of Egypt. This
is about the only fun Light Horsemen have nowa-
days, since Abdul imshied to the bounds of Bir el
Alid. The mode of capture ■is like this. Half a
dozen horsemen with fixed bayonets and loaded rifles
extend to about six paces and scour the desert. On
sighting the quarry the boys dismount, approach
carefully aiu. silently, bend down and gently pick-
ing up the chameleon place him in a haversack. It
takes some doing. On the sand the. beasts are very
difficult to see, being exactly the color of their
surroundings. When placed on a brown blanket they
darken immediately. The cham. earns his keep by
patching flies with a tongue that shoots out like a
piston-rod, and is ordinarily half as long again as his
body. I have a pet that I call Billjim, and his
tongue licks a range-finder to a frazzle. Fiom his
snout to the root of liis tail he is five inches long,
but his tongue whips out like a streak of lightning
and snares flies nine inches off. The cook played a
dirty trick on him yesterday. Sooled him on to an
insect on some flypaper. The resultant mix-up was
like unto a twin cat remonstrating with a pepper-tin.


■
■
Health 8 Strength
from Self Culture”
The above is the title of a booklet which I have written,
treating with Physical Culture, and giving fullest particu-
lars of my postal methods. It is fully illustrated, and con-
tains 44 pages.
I want you to read it—the information contained within
its pages will point you the way to perfect health and
strength.
In this valuable booklet I describe bow my system banishes
indigestion, constipation, tones up the system, reduces
surplus weight, improves the condition of thin folk, builds
up muscular frame, etc.
If you are sincere in your desire to have perfect health,
send three penny stamps to-day for a copy, which will be
mailed by return post. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement. I will know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
553 Belmont Buildings
SYDNEY.
THE XMAS GIFT
QUESTION
dfg
will be easily solved if you
have a copy of my illustrated
catalog. There is nothing
that pleases a man better
than something in the smok-
ing line —cigars, tobacco, a
pipe, etc.
I can highly recommend
my
“CIGARILLOS.”
They are really small,
good cigars of shilling
Havana quality. Fine
and mild in flavor.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
2/6 2/3 i-
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 8.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
11/- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Made in three
sizes, but all
ONE
QUALITY.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SHELL-
x
BENZINE'
X J n~-n~ L r?
HELL'-
•nzine
an
i
i
SHELL
k SEMZINCi
Gifts for Our 1
Soldier Friends.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note .these values:—
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case 4/-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ,
Established over SO Years.
fdg
fg
fg
ĝfd
fg
fgfg
On the Steepest Hill,
In Crowded Traffic,
Through Mud and Slush,
In Desert Sand,
Wherever You Go
<&ndim
will carry you safely,
comfortably, speedily
Catalog “D ” with Pleasure.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Moio* Cycle Po. Pty. Ltd..
109-113 Russell Street
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd.. 156 Castlereagh St.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Aoency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd , 75-79 Pirie St.
LAUNCHSTON : John King & Sons Ltd., Charles St.
PERTH : Armstrong Cyole and Motor Agency, Hay St
V
paton
7**o f
smmm
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills.
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES
are becoming more and more the choice of
men to whom price is not the only considera-
tion, but who prefer Rigney Shoes because
they find in them all of those attributes
which make for constant and enduring ser-
vice and distinctive appearance.
We illustrate a choice, , All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike perfect. Also in Derby.
The famous Paris last. Patents or Tans.
Price - 37,6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
dfg
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
What Motorists \ are asked to pay
for Motor T ubes —«and Whattheyget!
Every Motorist knows that one of the essentials to satisfactory tyre service is the
use of full weight, air-retaining Tubes, free from porosity, leaking joints and valves.
The main factor is the quality and thickness of rubber in tube, in conjunction
with first-class manufacturing methods. As to'Quality, “Dunlops" compare
favourably with any tube made. As to construction— the best method is the
laminated principle, and every Dunlop Motor Tube we have made for the last
10 years has been built up of numerous layers of thin high grade rubber.
IN THESE RESPECTS ‘DUNLOPS" HAVE NO EQUAL.
HaVe you ever Weighed a set of Dunlop and Imported Tubes
of similar size—and then compared the Weights and prices ?
There’s a surprise coming When you do !
You will find that the Dunlop3 are lbs. heavier and thicker—YET they cost
considerably less to buy. The following prices are interesting, and should
decide every Motorist in favour of these Australian-made Tubes:—
IMPORTED (3 Makes)
“A" “ B ” “ C
29/- 28/- 28/ instances of the
*46/- 4f *3<
*46/-
52/-
54/-
65/-
31/-
38/-
48/-
56/-
39/-
42/-
44/-
51/-
28/
31/-
41/-
45/-
41/6
47/-
49/6
66/-
28/fc
33/-
43/-
55/-
difference in
weights:—Dun-
lop 815 x 105
tube weighs
4 lbs. One im-
ported tube,
same size,
weighs 2! lbs..
another 2s lbs.
Note the
It s the same with Dunlop Covers. We give more high-grade
materials, and more miles for less money. In face of these
facts—why purchase imported tyres ? Fit “Dunlops"—it pays!
E
jg
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. AO St;
6 N ;
DUNLOP
MOTOR TUBE
In S. Aus. the political Labor body calls
itself the United Labor Party. It was at
the first meeting of the brethren after the
Referendum that Brother Hill, M.L.A., passed
Brother Goode, Minister for Lands, one in
the nose in token of amity ; and the subse-
quent proceedings consisted chiefly of throw-
ing all the members of the Labor Ministry
overboard.
Of melancholy interest to Australia is tne
fact that Capt. Ilbery, the skipper of the
Waratah when she disappeared off the face
of the waters seven years ago, had his first
command in the Mikado, the old tea-dipper
which, turned into a hulk in her old age,
was burned to the water’s edge at Suva,
Fiji, the other day.


CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the AVar.
i“ f • fCo-'x. 1 1- ■*>v.v* '•>'i.t-'^nv.»v.u
i s
tp
w%
< i
r~'j
v
<>?
2§sv
m
4? &s&.
j SS? ~..
%/d i
IM
/"
7K
) Si
tiWlt
V-
t. :i
rz
et
*
5;
f//2
H
m
jj
)/
1
s . c
' i
%
|
tea
g»
w
■M
m
m
■:&’
m
Mif
!&$
-1
w
SB
'■ss
ss
§®
1
Sljll
[9s&
m
B
m
9$
sm
■-•■■
i
■
i
\
/Sg
SBr
SK
fts S
•#?i;
l£
11
$2
y&.
m
m
m
m
Ixl
yf(
**. i*, >it
&B
11
m#
'
m
*/
iw
v’*"’"V :
fg&f
iis
H
Ml
gp*
lii
"Ml
H
\
Km
m
m
Mft
m
Wm.
u ~*
mi
11
2li£««
WM
yji
;/
i
tMffli
:
•jts.>\'‘yx
m i
W:
• gSB
mi:
'-■' y}Hp
-
V
00
m
■m
' i
m
EV**'
f $ !
/.V
■A#
m
&S
m
sis
j®tjpss
;• ’ A
IS
Ss§
f; h
*?#x
.
■OM
\
a?
W
r <s«
■^lBl%
* »V
S w C,
. o
ri!
©•
Cobra,” Uhe Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
D oes some brisk
Recruiting too.
Dr. Bear says,
“ That’s the best
“M easu re men t
80-day tor chest
Chunder notes the
Age and height,
Smiles and says,
“ I guess you ll fight
“Clean up Europe
While you’re fit.
“Make a ‘COBRA'
Job of it! ”


Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads- to health and please be sure they’re
signed :
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
ĝf
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS*
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Dose,
Small Price.
e;a
“they say I am
mightier than
ihe sword!”
‘ ‘ Only the soldier need.s
the sword nowadays, but
everybody has need of ntt
for I am the Onoio—
peerless among pens."
The Onoto simplifies wri-
ting. It writes with smooth
precision from first to last.
It is the one really satis-
factory seif-hlling pen.
Onoto Pen
the “trusty” pen.
The Onoto is British made. It is designed to
last a lifetime; and is guaranteed by its makers.
0 and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers,
mnd Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA HUE S' CO., Ltd.,
ISI, Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,or the
Australasian Representatives
NORMAN BAKER S' LONGHURST, 50 York
Street, Sydney. <
Ask for ONOTO INK — Best for all Pens.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
li' so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—■
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at Ij3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
Riding Emperors.
Our Celebrated “IBONBAR K
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S”. special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price - - 14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allan 8 Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
There is No Car So Suitable
*r
as the Famous F.I.A.T.
A Few Imported Models Left. Price ,£750.
GARRATTS LTD.. 173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ilncerrua
Australian Wholesale Agents:
DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
'PHE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Ansemia-—girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness" and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—“ lmbroverished blood, can be made rich and good
“ by means of Iron 'Je.lo ds,' the most effective and desirable treatment.”
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia In Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON -JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6. Large size 3/-
Manufactured onl/ by The 'Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Road, London, England.
f
I
V
(.Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
Bos/ocA
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, ’a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heel. If ever there w T as
an ideal shoe for smart wear ,in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock No.
P 6458
/
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
825
Do not miss the latest Bostoek ship-
ments now on view at the leading stores.
gf
If any illustration appearing in xiiE
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A large proportion of male undergraduates
now at the ’Varsity are A.I.F. men returned
to complete tlieir medical course; so when
a prominent socialist and anti-conscriptionist
was billed to address a meeting at the
-Shop” they grinned and conspired together.
It was arranged that he should be called for
in a car appropriately decorated and whirled
out to the lonely Werribee plains, there to
be dumped 10 miles from a railway station.
But there was a traitor in the baud, or
else they plotted too loudly. When they
arrived the Anti bird had. flown, and they
next saw him sitting on the platform, ready
to begin his lecture, and stolidly chewing
gum.
Dainty Lizette Parkes is a pale little girl
just now. She has been forbidden any more
sea-trips for awhile, and instructed to work
ovei'time sitting on the verandah. During
the last six months she has fitted in one trip
to Maoriland and back, a voyage to and from
Westralia, and some incidental Tasmanian
tours. It’s too much for a poor sea-traveller
who begins to look more wistful than usual
when a theatre orchestra starts to play a
sea-song.
Lady Stanley will presently be talking
about fishtail winds instead of fishtail trains.
She lias just joined the Malvern Ladies’
liifle Club, and for her first appearance wore
the trimmest of fawn shooting skirts over
smart little boots. She ran up a creditable
score first try and induced Captain Conant
to fire a few rounds. He potted G 5 out of a
possible TO. The new riflewoman carried
away a souvenir target dotted with neat
round bullet-holes. Of course, the committee
of the range rushed to make things pretty for
the visiting sharpshooter. A large Union
Jack was flung over the billiard-table for tea,
and Mrs. E. A. Gaden, from Darling Point,
hurried along with two huge bowls of wara-
tah blooms. There was a fine roll-up of mem-
bers. Mrs. Harry Hope Campbell was there
sniffing gunpowder, and Miss Ross Thompson
(Macedon). Miss .Jamieson and Miss Lang-
don all tried not to jump every time a shot
was fired. Mrs. Samson Greville, Mrs. Polack
and Mrs. T. Hale tried their skill, and Miss
Nina Ba,got (the doggy girl) was acting-
captain. The Stanley dame is turning her
small boy on to the club to make an Empire-
defender of him.
There were some interesting old clothes
raked up for the pageant-tableau of life on
Flagstaff Hill in 1850-54. William Stawell,
Redmond Barry, Johnny Fawkner and Gov-
ernor Latrobe were some of the figures who
reappeared for this occasion only. Nearly
everyone in the tableau wore something
really belonging to the period. Madge Free-
man, of Bendigo, had on a black net dress
trimmed with red satin ribbons, which was
worn at a Government House ball some time
between 1850 and 1860, as well as a charm-
ing straw bonnet which came from England
at the Same period. Mrs. Carter lent her the
relic. Someone else carried a real 1850 para-
sol, bought at the Federal Government House
show of antiques. Mr. Herbert Rose lent
Marion Jones a dress made of hair-striped
shot silk, and Miss Aileen Dent a lovely old
biaek-and-green brocaded silk. Elsie Wilson
wore a ducky little blue-and-white check that
delighted some Tasmanian belle of 1850. Mrs.
Scott Fergusson lent this lot. Miss Grieve en-
trusted to Mary Allen a real lace shawl of
1850, and asked Miss Jackson Morris to be
careful of an 1880 parasol. A hat that was
worn by Chief Justice Stawell decorated his
representative’s head, and the walking-stick
always used by Redmond Barry was lent by
his son. The uniforms of the police were all
authenticated by Mr. ex-Commissioner O’Cal-
laghan.
Dr. Helen Sexton is back again in Mel-
bourne incapacitated for- farther strenuous
war-jobs by an honorable limp. She had
been working one morning till she was
almost blind with weariness, and went out
into the snow along some sunk passages. She
took one step down instead of three and
smashed her leg badly. Hence the return to
civil practice. The clever woman cannot get
over her amazement at the volume of pri-
vate motor traffic in Melbourne. She says
that, despite her limp, she would scarcely
venture to use a taxi in these days of war-
economy. But the petrol-saving idea seems
to have no hold here. In Paris it is difficult
to get a taxi at all. All private motors
have been commandeered and petrol is con-
served like gold. “It is like coming to
another world,” says the doctor, impatiently.
“Australia hasn’t realised what’s happening.
I see large motor-cars whizzing along occu-
pied by one woman only and a chauffeur!
Such waste!”
Melba’s country home at Coldstream
begins to have an established look.
Approached by road from the Yarra Flats,
on the side remote from Melbourne, Coombe
Cottage appears well furnished with garden
and lush cow-paddocks, and the house has
that well-groomed appearance seldom seen
even in the most prosperous agricultural
regions. Suggestive, perhaps, of a glorified
amusement-park, with its trellises, pergolas,
milk-coolers, fowl-roosts, fussy curves and
wedding-cake frills; nevertheless the sort
of place in which a well-gilded singer might
spend her deed—well, her holiday-years in
comparative peace. The roof-porch or up-
stairs rose-garden, with its view of a dozen
mountain-ranges, 40 paddocks, several sheep
and a lot of hardy annuals in the garden
below, should be just the spot for a little
smoke after dinner; and there is plenty of
room at the Cottage for all the friends that
Melba could possibly want to be bothered
with over the week-end. The view towards
Melbourne is a drawback, however. Its
immediate foreground consists of the vil-
lage pub, old and whiskered, and the village
store, old and withered; and beyond these
flat and uninteresting sheep-paddocks. Still,
it must be very pleasant for the people at
the pub and the store to gaze at Melba going
out with the milk-pail in the dewy mornings
or gathering garden-slugs in the gloaming.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


T
mm
BY FAR TH
Iptf
h
£
'too good for Baby
There are many medicines for the various ail-
ments of the Baby. A great nymber of these
ailments arise from one cause —Teething. The
medicine that attacks all the symptoms of teeth-
ing is the best and only standby the mother has
•at this troublesome time.
Fishers Teething
Powders
have been made in Sydney for the past forty
years and have become established as a most
efficacious and trustworthy remedy to employ
during dentition. They are the one medicine
necessary to every home that has a baby. Give
Fishers Teething Powders should your baby
show any of the following symptoms: Restless
at night, Feverishness, Diarrhoea, Constipation,
Nervous Excitability. Flushed Face, or Pers-
peration about the head. We guarantee them
not to contain Opium, Morphia, Calomel, nor
any injurious ingredients. Sold in boxes, 20
Powders, 1/-; 60 powders, 2/6
Buy the Best for Baby
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists.
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
ƒg
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees'of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or ivrite for illustrated
booklet and particulars of onr Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
/fjjfßnff
am jo
fajuetienoty
siauiet/ii/^
4
ON THOSE
SULTRY DAYS
when every remedy for
discomfort seems but to
increase discomfort
YARDLEY’S
EAU-DE-COLOGNE
is a revelation of delight.
The evaporating spirit
wafts a note of refreshing
flower - scented Spring
breezes to the jaded
nerves.
k Done in London
I since 1770.
8 New Bond ST,
LONDON
Eurmimr
fm
OH
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The Best Bonus - paying Life Office in the World,
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OP CASH SURPLUS as at 31st December, 1916.
ALL participating policies effected before that date igill share in the CASH BONUS to be then allotted.
CASH BONUS divided for one year, 1915 .. .. .. .. £848,528
Yielding Reversionary additions to policies of about .. .. ••
Tolal Bonuses distributed since inception of Society .. .. • £'10,700,000
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
The whole of the Cash surplus is divided each year among the participating policyholders.
Now is the time to effect an assurance on your life, or a further assurance, so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s. Bonus. _ . .
Write for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office or A s ent
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. AV. APPERLY, Secretary.
Hr
rc
°Cfc
CENTE-P
1 1
4s supplied to H. M.
Queen Alexandra
ZENOBIA PERFUMES reflect Nature with unsur-
passable exactitude. They enable you to enjoy the
charming odour and refreshing fragrance of choice
old English flowers, in all their pristine freshness.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom A delightful perfume : delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The choice 1 of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night Scented Stock A revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley —A perfume of rare delicacy and charm.
ZENOBI&
PFRFUMES,
Zenobia British Eau de Cologne surpasses all foreign makes.
Zenobia Greeting Sachets —An exquisite Zenobia Perfume in a Book-
form Sachet, combining a pretty Christmas card. Nearly ioo designs.
ZENOBIA, LTD.,LOUGHBOROUGH, LEICESTERSHIRE,ENG.
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for November
ĝdf
The new list comprises a very fine range of productions—
twenty in all—including two Concert records.
To emphasise the pleasing ones would be to mention the
whole list, but those that will make a particularly strong
appeal include: “I Am a Roamer Bold” (Arthur Middle-
ton) ; “Your King and Country Want You” (Helen Clark
and chorus) ; “Abide With Me” (E. Spencer and T.
Chalmers) ; “Battle of the Nations —Descriptive” (New
York Military Band) ; “Henry Gibson’s Narrow Escape”
(Billy Golden and .7. Marlowe) ; and “Cohen at the Tele-
phone” (G. L. Thompson).
Order to-day through your dealer;
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28224—La Vierge ala Creche (.4. Perilhou).
Soprano, in French, oreh. acc.
Alice Verlet
28225 —I Am u Bold —Son and Stranger.
(Menddssoh.fi). Bass, orch, acc.
'Arthur Middleton
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2785—Ballymooney and Biddy McGee. Tenor,
orch. acc. Billy Murray and Chorus
2787—Mv Wild Irish Rose. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt
2788 Hip, Hip Hooray. Tenor and Soprano,
orch. acc.
Burton Lenihan, Gladys Rice & Chorus
2793 Battle of the Nations. Descriptive.
New York Military Band
2790—Soft Southern Breeze. Tenor, orch. acc.
Reed Miller
2797 Molly Dear, It’s You I’m After. Tenor,
orch. acc. Walter Van Brunt and Chorus
2798 — Abide With Me. Soprano and Baritone,
orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer & Thomas Chalmers
2804 Henry Gibson’s Narrow Escape. Vaude-
ville Sketch.
Billy Golden and .James Marlowe
2805 — She’s the Daughter of Mother Machree.
Tenor, orch. acc. Burton Lemhan
2807—Bridal Blushes Waltz. For Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
2SO8 —Morning, Noon and Night in Vienna
Overture. American Symphony Orchestra
2809 — Medley of J. K Emmett’s Yodel Songs.
Orch. ace. George P. Watson
2810— Ben Hur Chariot Race March.
New York Military Band
2811 — There’s a Little Lane Without a Turn-
ing (On the Way to Home, Sweet
Home). Tenor, orch. acc.
• George Wilton Ballard & Chorus
2813 Mister Silver Moon. Soprano ' and
Tenor, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice & Irving Kaufman
2814 M-O-T-H-E-R (A Word That Means the
World to Me). Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
2815 — Cohen at the Telephone. Monolog.
George L. Thompson
'3370 —Your King and Country Want You.
Contralto and Chorus, orch. acc.
Helen Clark & Chorus
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-872 Kent Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Two Songs: Well, the Argus evidently
thought his work wa§ of national importance a
month ago. At any rate, in its conscrip-
tion campaign it begged the loan of him to draw a
few cartoon? to assist in carrying a vote which it
declared was of the utmost national importance.
.... Sten: But why didn’t you send details of
that job ? The Bulletin likes to be circumstantial
in its stories... .R.S.E.: If you know something
about them, tell us. That vague sort of yelp won't
aid them.... Spini fex (W.A.) : Plenty of good meat
in it, but so poorly dressed... .H. Stewart: Save
yourself probable trouble by putting the case to a
professional gardener. ...Two Blues: Yarn about the
lady’s agility is very old; still we were able to
boil Henry Lawson’s billy on it. Thanks.... L.W.:
If it’s a new national antliem it would be a pity to
waste it, so here goes:—
To Empire’s call
We cry, “Yes, all,
On sea and shore
We’ll win this war.”
. ...M.M.Y.: Repatriation Day was originally fixed
for October 27, but was postponed on account of the
Referendum till December 15. The idea is to make
the fund a rolling snowball for a couple of years.
Can’t say whether country centres will employ col-
lector's. .. .Sana : Try again... .Cargoon : Wbat r s it
all about, any way ?.... Constant Reader (S.A.) .-
Thanks... .Bad Aus.: Yes; an old Bulletin yarn.
. ...J.J.R.: Get up to Heaven’s gate if you can.
St. Peter might like your singing. We don’t....
M.V.S.: Correct, commonplace verse... .G.R.H.: It’s
a dizzy sort of “Roundel” that seems to have spun
out all its sense... .8.E.D.: Doesn’t work... .L.C.:
Crude verse; good sentiment... .Chick: We’ve known
you do better. .. .Tibs: We won’t hang them with a
Scripture rope for attempted murder... .A.McK.M.:
“Renunciation” is overloaded prose with an explosive
rhyme here and there.... A.8.C.: What a hideous
way to murder an innocent girl who was only in
love with being in love 1.... Haeremai: “Kaiser’s
Silver Wedding” is terrible doggerel W.M.D.8.:
N T o use.. . . Spartan: It’s a wildly jumbled sort of
curse, but the shirker wouldn’t worry if you added
50 verses that were even worse. .. .A.R.G.: Too
crude... .F.S.: “Sons of Australia” is a considerable
row, but it’s a sorrowful contribution to literature.
. ...H.W.S.: “Unmarked Road” very near. “Swim-
mers” hardly buoyant enough... .J.J.H. : Either tell
a story or preach a sermon. You can’t mix them.
. ...A.G.J.: Not up. .. .Hippens: Nothing- in it....
J.D.H.: Too much melodrama... .St.J.: It’s a poor
finisher... .E.W.D.: Very well done, but not worth
doing.... Leon: Not skill enough... .G.R.H.: The
bull’s ghost trembled on the verge but fell over. ...
R.W.A.: Dull fooling... .E.M.W.: Your Queen of
the South has a dirty face and a disreputable con-
science and is a very middling old person however
you look at her. .. .R.L.C.: Those mechanically con-
trived yarns must be something special to get
through. .. .A.E.G.: Yarn doesn’t thrill C.M.:
Smartly done, but the “Previous Question” is
machine-made humor... .P.W.S.: Pretty poor .busi-
ness.... Land B.: Very g00d... .E.L.S.: The “verse”
isn’t verse. War yarn has a smart idea, but care-
lessly worked - out. .. .J.M.A.: Not up. .. .G.E.L.: Do
you imagine hysteria shows : strength ?... .A. D.W.:
Sorry; no u5e....R.8.: Too slight.... Far-mate: An
idea, but nothing made of it... .M.A.: Good thought;
poor medium.... Lestor: Neither Will quite d 0....
G.W.D.: It patters along till it finds a rhyme. That
isn’t verse... .E.D.: “Tragedy Unpublished” is dull
and suggests that the fear of Mrs. Grundy is the
beginning of wisdom. .. .A.G.C.: Pointless....
8.J.0’R.: You have been fooled by a loud noise....
Anglo-Australian: Verse not up. Why ask what we
publish? Read the paper and see A.G.S.: Shock-
ingly crude... . A.H.T.: The lines are original all
right, but the author’s own opinion of them is the
correct one... .Mac: The first and last stanzas carry
the faint, sweet fragrance of watercresses in a dry
season:—•
I’ll tell you how and the time a girl to kiss.
It’s when the moon is out, and no one’s around
And you sit side by side in Perfect Bliss,
The echo of kisses the only sound.
Oh, funny are the ways of bowman Cupid.
He makes you feel so helplessly stupid.
When in love you be
He just laughs with glee.
Yes, funny are the ways of little Cupid.
... . J.H.8.: May be strong feeling that moves you,
but the verses are weak enough to have been inspired
by a decoction of boiled pumpkin rind... .N.S.: Joke
old and shopworn... .W.P.S.: Some good phrasing
and a lot of commonplace. Geographical verse makes
no appeal.... Shed Rep.: Verse sent is stiff and
prosy, but correct. The chap has the idea and he
should go on trying A.F.W.: Laborious verse
moving to little purpose. The idea is worked to
death. . . .A.T.M-W.: Slight stuff. .. .E.K.: Nothing
in it.., .F.T.W.: Horrible attempt... .W.R.: Not
up S.L.: Every line out W.C.K.: Just misses.
Have another shot. . . .E.C.: A string of words about
nothing in particular doesn’t make a sketch....
V.F.K.: No F.J.11.: Glad you “can’t help being
poetical.” We never should have suspected it from
samples... .Jay Gee: Lamentable... .M.R.W.: Not
up F. 8.: They miss by a good margin.... Robbie:
Not our style.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
1.M.D.5.: No likeness, and too small for reproduc-
tion even if such a thing- was desirable... ,W.S.:
Mild joke—poor drawing... .H.N.: Sorry, no value
at all. . . .C.J.C.: Same trouble... .A.G.: You’re only
at the beginning. Can’t prophesy what may become
of you... .D.J.K.: Deeply depressing. .. .T.C.H.H.:
Thanks, but we can’t honestly praise it... .A.G.F.:
Wooden.... John W.: Unable to use it....E.G.:
Neither. .. .M.A.C.: Timberyard art... .P.F.H.:
What’s the significance of the darned thing?....
K.W.C.: It doesn’t get us. . . .H.S.J.S.: No. .. .1.R.T.:
It’s too steep. Human beings couldn’t use a room
like yours without alpenstocks... .Mac: No sting, no
punch, no bite... .G.D.: Don’t care whether you
can draw or not. If you’ve got ideas we’re ready
to buy them.
The Victorian Municipal Ass. met during
the first week in November and passed a
motion condemning the Government for sug-
gesting new taxation and ordering it to
effect economies. It also passed an imposing
array of other resolutions, requiring in-
creased Government expenditure. Can’t the
animal make np its mind which bundle of
hay it really wants?


20-25
n
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Five-Passenger Touring Car - £325
Single Sealer - - - - - £315
a
m
This light, economical, powerful Overland gives you pride of possession you can have
m no other light car. At the same time it gives the riding comfort found in much heavier
and more expensive cars.
Rear springs of the famous cantilever tvpe absorb road shocks more completely
than any other type. •
Seats are deep and soft and are built up over long, spiral springs. They are broad
and comfortable- —ample in their roominess for five passengers.
Besides being light and economical, this car is easy to manage. It has electric lights
and engine starter —and is complete in every detail of equipment—no extras to buy. Electric
control switches are placed on the steering column —right at your hand.
It doesn t cost much to buy or maintain, but it satisfies completely your desire for
comfort and utility as well as your pride.
Ask us to-day to arrange a demonstration.
COMPLETE CATALOGUES ON REQUEST FROM—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALK/NER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
THie Willy g-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U.S.A.
Cable Address Overlandis, Toledo (ABC sth, General, Western Union, and Lieber Codes).


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15.000 Regd. Tons.
All A II l £•, 10 Artrt
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabinss-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with- bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.andVV.A.ports)
NORTH.
CANBERRA
(SOOO Tons).
COOMA
(4000 Tons).
BOMBALA
(4000 Tons).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA
(8000 Tons). „
EARLY.
See
Daily
Papers
for -
Sailing
Dates.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Maaasinj Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
limited.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000,
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, IC.C.M.G.
lion. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
Lbndon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ..
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916)
RESERVE FUND ..
Companies Act.)
... £2,000,000
.. £1,198,679
.. £1,197.393
£85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreudneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECIORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman*
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.; George F.
Todman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all* the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 212.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman!
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq!:
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— -W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The C«Bmereial gaakinf go.
of Sydney, [united.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Bren an. Esq.; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New 7,ea-
lanrl. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
SIISOdHQ 53A1393H
at Interest, for
fixed periods, and
transacii all other usual Banking business
Shipping &C.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc,
PACIFIC
LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts. Laundry
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to, San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacilic Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MOAN A, 7th December. * MAITAI, 4th January, 1917.
♦Connecting steamers leave Sydney—3oth November, 28th December.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS,
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—■
R.Al.S. Niagara and R.3I.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
Specially designed for the Tropics and up to date in every respect.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
A
1
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital - •
Reserve Fund - - * •
Reserve Liability • • ■ •
Directors:
£3,500.000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.U.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lione! Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, u.ju.U., M.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard. Edgeeliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson. Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London office 29 Threadncedle St , E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
• .T, RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
gd
fd
gfd
Jsank of ßuotmKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
gfd
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor. Junt. 1916 DENISON' MILLER. .Governor
fg
fg
Interest —with
Government
Guarantee—for
Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution.
This Bank has 132 Branches in the City of Sydney, the principal Suburbs and
Country Towns, as well as 500 Agencies.
Head Office, By order of the Commissioners
11 Moore Street. Sydney. H* HA\ lES.
12th October, 1916. Secretary. _
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
Vlf TADI AN flllFt NU ANT) PORTS.
EOU MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIUIE
And GULP I’OUTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to ail North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Nov. 17 anil Bee. 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
towns vi lee
And Ports North to Cairns.
PA RING A, Nov. 18.
RUPaRA. Nov. 25.
UORIAI/EA, Dec. 2.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first l’nrt of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YI IT.T. & CO., T,TI>.,
Agents, 6 13 It IDU 10 STItICIOT. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent l''ast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa," “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWKAT.T 11 & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
IlOli A LIT AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKIER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORUE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AME R 1 C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMO A-H ONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Svdnev: —
DEG. 6, DEC. 27, JAN. 17. FEB. 7.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lar! v to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Comuination "Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or seeond-ciass rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —sieamer to Alurwiilunibah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail arid saloon on
steamer. ‘T G 8-. fid.: second-eiass rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIM ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Erupt'ona
Pim.jles
E iciness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Ro.i«a
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pkppkk&Co.,Ltd..lie <ford laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.


&
c r a
V
y» )
>£♦*•
vv\
ft
7 / Jr/M//J/J
sc, s^‘fc.u.v,:
"“■'■Vsl *^l7'
kmanr
■JJ : mffll si
//
r -
i^
07jj
TFt
i n
2
SW
K=V
flj Jtus
iss*®-
£
r 7
5J
w ' w ir
m
W'-<> „ ',
•>. './
/ .
\
A
■o
<'■>
ry
v, /y
‘ t T^
Jt
) 9
a
i
%
•i
Ei.
r
fi
sir
__
tea
vm
-jkklAj THE WORLD knows
* A and admires what Australia is doing in the ''
War, and patriotic Australia will appreciate wliat Michelin
has done and is doing.
MICHELIN has given £40,000 to further the work of French Military
Aviation, and is manufacturing 100 Aeroplanes, which he is
gi vin g to the French Government, representing an approximate
cost of £ 100,000.
MICHELIN also proposed the establishment of the “ Flying Service
Fund ” for the benefit of British Aviators and their dependants,
giving £ 1,000 to start the fund—also gave £BOO to the Prince
of Wales* Fund—and has given to date £120,000 to the
dependants of his employees who are fighting for the Allies.
MICHELIN is manufacturing shells, and bombs for aeroplanes, etc,, and is
also helping by his large supplies of tyres to the British, French,
Belgian and Italian Armie®
MICHELIN has established and maintains a hospital of 320 beds for the
wounded, costing to date £3o,ooo—has paid shareholders in
War Loan—and has made advances to his staff who have, to
sth December, subscribed £202,012 in War Loan and £5,520
to Fund for parcels for the Troops. Many other things could
be added to this list..
Yes, we are all doing our utmost in the common cause. The Allies are
united in Arms, let us be united in Business.
We, therefore, ask for your support, and, apart from other reasons, the
quality of MICHELIN TYRES assures it,
MICHELIN—THE BEST
Therefore the Must Economical.
13 A, 1617. ..
MICHELIN TYRES
can be obtained at all the leading garages.
ORLIC
’5 MALTED
MILK_
MALTED BARLEY—WHEAT & MILK
Are the constituents of Horlick’s Malted Milk. These nutritive elements help nature
to build up the human frame and bring back health, strength and energy. er
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and physical power is at once noticeai e.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drink.
GET HORLICK’S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
INVN-
OR milk
-■r
>c*7
t* *
»«n».
MURPHY'S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Ble'eding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
0^
(s,
&
SOU
DO
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt* the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions. 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE,
df
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
li. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
M\UAkWISmWL
m
KING OF ALL METAL POLISHES
Keeps automobile fittin gs new and makes
all metals a pleasure to lookat. The only
safe polish for aluminum. Made of the
finest oils—no acid or ammonia used.
Does the work quickly and gives a last-
ing polish. Sold in two size cans by all
Grocery, Hardware and Drug Stores,
Look for the Photo on Can
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Rkitisu Austkal-
asian, Cd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ai.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Biurisii Atjstjjalasiaiv
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High IIol
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
THE KEENEST EDGE
and the finest-tempered blade belong to
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
It retains its edge the longest, shaves in quickest
time, and cuts out face-hacking annoyance. Get
one to-day.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We kej?p it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Rat-or, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 307-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established, over SO years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
A case for
Wi'ncarniSy
gc
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
—the red to nourish the
body, the white to fight
disease. In Anaemia—or
bloodlessness the red
corpuscles are more or less
deficient. Thus the blood
cannot provide sufficient
nourishment for the body.
Therefore the face be-
comes white and “ pasty”
—theeyesbecomedulland
“heavy”—and a feeling
of intense weariness per-
vades the whole system.
To overcome Anaemia,
the blood supply needs re-
charging with red corp-
uscles. Anditisherethat
gdf
possesses such wopderful
power Because being a
blood-maker, ‘Wincarnis
creates a wealth of new
rich, red blood, which
brings the roses back to the
cheeks—gives a sparkle to
the eyes—and surcharges
the whole body with new
vitalityand new life. That
is why over io.ooo Doctors
recommend ‘ Wincarnis.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
'Wincarnis' is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd..
Wincarn s Work?, Norwich. You
can buy ‘ Wincarnis ’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/• and 6/6, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtab in'-l it. write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 5/7 Barrack St., Sydney.
gf
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Facific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
The Lake Breeze Motor
*F
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Ituns
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY)


MAKE YOUR OWN COUGH MIXTURE.
A pint of the finest quality remedy for
coughs, colds and throat troubles—equal to
12s. worth of ordinary mixtures—may be
made in a few minutes by adding 2s. worth
of Hean’s Essence to water and sweetening.
Sir Rider Haggard, the famous novelist, who
recently visited Australia, wrote, on the eve
of his departure: “You will be interested to
know that I am taking a supply of Hean’s
Essence away with me. Upon my return to
England I shall be pleased to bring its merits
under the notice of my friends.” Hean’s
Essence is obtainable from all leading chem-
ists and stores.— Advt.
A Good Carpet
is not necessarily expensive.
"Where you rest, there decorate,” said Euskin.
Where does the average Australian take rest —is it not in
the Dining Eoom, the Living Eoom? Then let us give
consideration to the decorating of the Dining Eoom with
Carpets and Eugs. A Linoleum covering is necessary, if
the floor be not polished; and then, say, a Velvet Pile
Carpet Square. One measuring 9ft. x 9ft. costs £4/5/-.
One measuring 12ft. x 9ft. costs £5/5/-. After all, that is
very little!
An Axminster Square, measuring 10ft. 6in. x 9ft.—
quite a big square, that is—can be supplied for £6/10/-.
Because they are so rich and beautiful some folk get the
idea that Carpets are expensive—you can see that such is
not the case. May we send a Price List of Carpets ?
John Hicks & Company Ltd.
George and Ann Streets, Brisbane.
IN
BANANA LAND
Captain Lionel Rawson, of the King’s
Royal Rifles, recently killed in France, was
a son of Charles Stansfield Rawson, once of
Maekay, and a nephew of Viking Rawson,
one-time Governor of N. S. Wales. Before
the Boer war, young Rawson, mostly known
as Jack, was an assayer at the Aldershot
Smelting Works (Q.), and went with the
Queensland forces to S’Africa. After the
war he occupied a lucrative position on one
of the Rand mines, but when Bill broke loose
he moved to the Front.
“H.T.P.”: John Lionel Ching, mentioned
as a “trader up Rockhampton way” by
“J.F.H.” (B. 26/10/’l6), was dugong-fishing
in Wide Bay in the early ’Bo’s. He returned
to England in the Liguria about May, 1883.
He had a brother, an admiral or something,
in the Navy, and when the vessel reached
Plymouth he was met by a cocked hat and
a special launch. His Pong name was the
subject of much banter; but I do not know
whether that was why he rejoined the cocked
hat.
Railways-Minister Harry Coyne has dis-
covered early in his Cabinet career the dif-
ference between dictating Labor policy from
the Trades Hall and attempting to meet the
demands of other dictators. When he led
the tram men in the 1912 strike, part of his
job was to issue permits to those whom the
Union allowed to remain at work. Now
Coyne goes humbly, to the Miners’ Federa-
tion begging for coal to keep his engines
puffing.
An idle copper mine, valued at £120,000,
is not the sort of thing that you would ex-
pect to trip over just now’. Yet Stopford,
M.L.A. for Mt. Morgan, got up the other
night and declared that he knew where one
of them was to be had. It is some 10 miles
from Mt. Morgan, and for the last 30 years
has lain idle. A few men who knew some-
thing about the place and something about
mining tried to get hold of it a while ago.
The owners, the Scottish Australian Metal
Co., were willing to sell—for £120,000. Pro-
posals for working the mine on tribute were
met with demands which made the w’ould-be
miners gasp. Stopford’s suggestion for
bringing things to a head is easily the best
so far put forward. He proposes that the
Commonwealth and State should both tax
the concern on the value put on it by its
owners. That would bring in about £3OOO
a year. The property, which is a freehold,
of course, has an area of 1474 acres and is
situated about three miles from the new
Dawson Valley railway. A coal-mine is
handy and there is an abundance of timber
and firewood in the vicinity. Premier Ryan
has promised the Imperial Government
48,000 tons of copper. It looks as if he is
having a chance offered to him. Those
dogs-in-the-manger will yelp and drop the
bone if they are clouted hard enough.
On the authority of the Auditor-General
the Ryan Government faked the accounts
for the past year. The “invariable practice”
for many years past has been to charge
against the revenue the outgoings for June
(the last month in the financial year) even
when “the acquitted vouchers had not
reached the Treasury or the departments at
June 30.” For instance, vouchers for
£102.292 spent by the Railways were sent
to the Treasury on .June 29; “but the
abstracts were subsequently returned by the
Treasury, tyith a request that they be struck
out of June and included in the July expen-
diture.” The same thing happened in other
departments. The Auditor-General com-
ments on this
As a result of the course adopted by the Treasury
Department the year under review (1915-6) has not
borne the full year’s expenditure as compared with
the immediately preceding years. Had the practice
of previous years been followed, and the items above
referred to charged, the Consolidated Revenue Fund
at June 30 last would have disclosed a deficit of
approximately £lOO,OOO.
The immediate result of this fake has been
to throw so much 1915-16 expenditure into
1916-17 that the July expenditure this year
exceeded that of July. 1915, by no less than
£157,268. If the auditor of a private busi-
MARITAL PRIDE.
GOOD LADY : “Your husband should never beat you under any circumstances. When I
do anything wrong my husband leaves my punishment to the Supreme Being."
MRS. MANGLES (with dignity): “Well, mum, I thank ’Eaven Bill ’as enough self-respect
to ’ammer ’is own wife ’isself.”
ness charged the directors with issuing a
false balance-sheet something would happen.
If it could be proved that they did it for
their personal advantage what would hap-
pen would probably have a judge and a gaol
in it. But what is plain dishonesty in the
director of a public company is apparently
something else in a party politician. Why
it should be so Heaven only knows. Ryan’s
only defence is to protest that his Govern-
ment has not been extravagant. This of
course is merely a red-herring drawn across
the trail. The question is not whether Ryan
and his Ministers are extravagant but
whether they are honest.
“Boro-Belle”: Not since the days of the
late Brunton Stephens has the Queensland
Parliament had an official report drafted with
such literary flourish as that of the recent
Commission on Public Works. Portion of
the report is devoted to a description of the
porcupine country between Juandah and
Taroom, the history of Taroom, and the
spread of the spiked pest, and it is a strik-
ing bit of work. The compiler was J. T. H.
Bird, formerly on the Rockhampton Bul-
letin ; he is now of Hansard staff, and
was secretary to the Commission.
The Toombul Shire Council, among whose
members are certain British subjects named
Blinginger, Schulz and Wildermuth, recently
debated whether the shire should abandon
the names of Schneider, Franz and Zillmann
roads. Quite naturally, lviessrs. Blinginger,
Schulz and Wildermuth decided that Schnei-
der, Franz and Zillmann were remarkably
good names to hang on to.
“Itan”: Ten men in our Chamber of
Fossils have lived in the aggregate 760
years. The oldest is 82. The Assembly has only
one man who has managed to dodge past the
allotted span. Not one of the 10 M’s.L.C.
c#n boast of holding an elective position.
They represent one-third of the full strength
of the House, and with two others can form
a quorum. Their hostility to Democracy is
uniformly unrelenting; every measure which
goes to them with a spice of reform in its
composition is promptly conducted to the
back door. Yet thei’e is no certainty that
the referendum which Premier Ryan pro-
poses will turn this Chamber down. The
growth of the I.W.W. and the financial and
other sins of Labor Governments have given
this House a chance of which it hadn’t even
the shadow a dozen years ago.
“Boro-Belle”: Every year when the wet
season sets in up north the crabs and prawns
show what they think of rain water. At the
first approach of a fresh in the Pioneer River
the prawns make for the sea, while the
crabs climb out on to the river bank or
training walls. The Maekay kid, armed
with a stick and a sugar sack, has then the
time of his life, as the sea spiders offer no
interference with trade, so thoroughly do
they appear to be doped. It is said that
they are not edible when in such a condition,
but no deaths have so far resulted from crab
suppers in the rainy season.
A few ominous figures. In the metropoli-
tan district for 1914-15 the cost of charitable
relief was £1847, while for the year ending
June 30, 1916, the figures leaped to £7246.
Either Brisbane is producing three to four
times as many hard-ups as it used to or the
relief administration is becoming scandal-
ously extravagant. The total relief for
Queensland (including fares and allowances)
boomed up to £14,638, which was half as
much again as in the preceding year. No
wonder Treasurer Theodore meditates fresh
taxation.
Bananaland Lands Department has
decided that the easiest way to avoid
squabbles and scandals in land balloting is
to do the gamble with numbered marbles.
They are placed in a box, shaken up, and
an instrument, officially called an extractor,
is used by a disinterested person to draw
one, whose number is shown to the Land
Commissioner and at least one unsuccessful
applicant.
“Sergeant”: The note handed over at a
recruiting office by an 18-year-old applicant
for enlistment:—
Capt. . Dear Sir, —I hereby give you per-
mission to enlist my son Jim Wirefence for active
service, as he is no damned use at home.—Yours
truley, John Wirefence.
I hope young Jim wins the V.C. and shames
the old man.
Minister Hunter told a deputation which
asked him to clear State prickly-pear lands
that it would cost well on to £40,000,000
to do the job. And it doesn’t seem an over-
estimate. Arthur Morgan made an experi-
ment in that line. Tile clearing cost £l9
per acre, and the cleared land was only
worth a fiver at most.
“W.G.8.” : How the North does break up
the white man’s body and spirit both! At
Freshwater, a little furrowed hamlet outside
Cairns, only 14 men were left to be called up
under the recent proclamation. Of these 11
passed as medically fit and the other three
were invited to come up again presently.
Cairns is jubilant over the quality of the
paper made by Sydney mills from pulp
pounded by ex-Archdeacon Joseph Campbell
out of local weeds. The mills, too, are so
satisfied with results that they have asked for
more pulp, and a syndicate has been formed
to oblige them. It proposes to use blady
grass, Chinese burr, sida retusa and pan-
danus, and begin the job in January.
The Douglases of Wooloowin don’t slack.
Major George, the doctor, is in charge of
the health of Brisbane camps; Lieut. Bill
was fighting as Ypres before a bursting shell
hurled him into a hospital at Amiens; Pri-
vate Walter was knocked out for 24 hours
at Romani; and Sergeant Ike is in camp
getting ready.
A hard-doer presented himself at the
Cairns enlisting office the other day, and
was accepted for active service. He said he
had come from New Guinea, and his name
was Harry Goften. After he was passed
he applied for a refund of his boat-fare. He
said he thought he was entitled to it because,
before he could get to a port of call for
steamers, he had to walk 195 miles, and
“ well barefooted, too!” He got the
refund—which is one war item to give a
cheer for, anyway.
“Two Blues” : How is this fpr a run on the
unlucky 13? A Billjim enlisted on the 13th
of the month. He was allotted to the 13th
Battalion, and given the regimental number
463—-figures, added, make 13. With his crowd
he embarked at Alexandria for the Darda-
nelles on April 13, 1915. He was biffed on
the 13th day after landing, and was once
more back in Pharaohland on May 13.
Before the Anzacs sailed for France he was
invalided home. Thirteen of his pals came to
meet him, and 13 letters were waiting for
him. Finally, he was discharged on the 13th
of last month.
From an island-garden in the Pacific: —
Casement has gone to the place where he belongs,
and no one will regret it. No one wants to excuse
him, either—he knew what he was doing. But, for
the credit of Ireland, let me say that Casement was
hot 'in any sense of the word, a normal citizen, if
his family history is to be taken into account.
Ulster knows them—with reason—as the “Mad Case-
ments.” They are a wealthy and influential family,
and people still marry their sons and daughters;
but it is well known that he or she who marries a
Casement doe 3 so with a fine disregard of the future
of the coming generation. One could give a good
list of Casements who are, have been, or ought to
be in asylums. I knew a man who married one, a
charming girl, apparently as sensible as you or I.
She has been in an asylum for many years, outliving
her husbands and most of her own people; and her
children have been—well, troublesome, all their lives.
Casement was one of the unlucky beggars who are,
and are not, mad—everybody knows one or two.,
This was the real cause of the hesitation over his
execution. Yet insanity was one of the things that
counsel couldn’t prove.
We Voted on the Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are proud of the way our people voted.
—Anti Press everywhere.
We like the noble cove who’s in the trench —
He’s battling for his country all the time; -
And we’ll admit it gives a sort of wrench
To know he’s unsupported in the grime;
But think of all the wickedness it meant
To sling our precious life and blood away;
And so with just the very best intent
We voted with the Germans on The Day.
We have no sympathy at all with Fritz ;
We hate to hear his evil-smelling name;
We’d like to see him get the damndest fits
And hope the Russian’s equal to that same;
But when you ask us straight—“ Why don’t you go
And do your little duty in the fray?”
We are not slaves to drive, we’d have you know—
We voted with the Germans on The Day.
We always Join in singing “Save the King”
And patriotic ditties of the kind ;
But let the folk in Europe have their fling,
And don’t annoy the coves that stay behind;
To build it up, the Country needs a few
W’ho’ll set its big activities at play,
It was with such a patriotic view
We voted with the Germans on The Day.
There’s quite a lot of empty billets now,
And lots of homes are mourning some sad loss;
But when the rod descends we have to bow,
And everybody has to bear his cross;
The Future hides a lot we never guessed—
But, as for me, I’m neither sad nor gay;
1 tried to do my best to stop the pest
By voting with the Germans on The Day.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


OUTPUT IN
OUTPUT IT- 1
HELP TO
BY TNSI,
ENGEL
iqoB.. .
iq 16 -
AMD STILL
S6OOO Gallons.
7000000 Gallons.
50SFER0US
IN PREFER-
UNSEED OILS
GROWING
/>,
$
AUSTRAI
OKT
MEGGH
17
MPORTj
T
\
I
c
f(f>
V
\
/
V\|
J
ONE FOR
AUSTRALIA.
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Wm. Adams & Co., Perthr, F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed «& Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil Manufacturers, Parramatta, n.s.w


“Like a Boot
made to order.”
MM
That may truly be
said of this elegant
model —a typical
English Shape in
Patent Coltskin,
with dull Kid tops.
The soles, are close-
welted and the
boot carries every
evidence of refined
style.
Wide or narrow
fittings.
28/6
Tan Willow Calf,
267-
Pine GlacS Kid,
27/6.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
GREAT DANGER OF INSECT BITES.
Protect Yoursetf Against Ordinary
Dangers by Using NEV-A-BITE.
A Preparation of Proved Effectiveness.
‘There is no question,” says a leading specialist,
that insect bites may lead to great danger to
health, and have been known to end fatally.”
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
_ It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect bite
might set up such
serious inflamma-
tion as to cause blood-poisoning’, and —as every-
one well knows —blood-poisoning mav lead to
even the amputation of a limb.
The best form of treatment of mosquito
bites is prophylactic or preventive. The appli-
cation of a little of the NEV-A-BITE
lotion reduces the probability of mosquito bites
to a minimum.
NE V - A-BITE is a perfectly harmless
preparation, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
If NEV-A-BITE is unobtainable from
your local supplier, send 1/2 in stamps to one
of the following, viz:—
Duerdin&Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
-. Susman & Co., Merchants, Kobart. {2
iH
Make a
Mop—this way!
Cut an ordinary
i mop four inches
from handle.
Moisten with
cold water,
pour on a lit-
tle “Three-
in-One” Oil,
and let stand
awhile. Then try this mop
on your floors. Dirt, dust
and scratches disap-
pear! Linoleum re-
newed and preserved.
Shake mop out-
' doors and it is clean
again.
Buy
“3-in-One” Oil
and make a mop
to-day!
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
HARRIS STREET.
Wellington, N.Z.
I"
fs£l [ « T USS,| |
r^7
•*M|NCS-6
1 1 H C ENGINES GIVE UP TO 40
J per CENT. SURPLUS POWER.
,Our Engines are consistently
.underrated as to power.
i A 2 H.P. Engine will actually de-
ivelop nearly or quite 3 B.H.P.—
i a 3 H.P. fully 4 B.H.P. and so on.
'These statements have been
repeatedly PROVED by prac*
tical demonstration.
KEEP THIS FACT IN MIND
WHEN DECIDING WHAT
ENGINE TO BUY.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO.
OFAUS.Pty Ltd.
Brisbane —Sydney~Melbourno i
Adelaide — Perth Launceston
_ _ _ —. (77)
!lt!
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY Limitec
NJ OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the abovenamed Company is issuing a prospectus dated the 11th day
' of NOVEMBER, 1916, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar-General in the State of
Victoria inviting subscriptions for an issue of £400,000 six per cent. Debentures for Seventeen years and
seven months from First day of December, 1916, at £9B per centum, balance of an authorised issue of
£1,090,000.
The said Prospectus states (amongst other things) to the effect following:—
Subscriptions will be payable at follows: —-
Deposit on application 6% of the face value of the Debentures
On allotment ....'. 10% „ ~ „ ~
On Ist day of February, 1917 20% ~ ~ „ ~
On 2nd day of April, „ 20% „ „ „ „
On Ist day of June, ~ 20% ~ „ „ „
On Ist day of August, „ 23% „ „ ~ »
Instalments may be paid in advance on allotment or on any of the above dates and will carry
interest from date of payment.
The Debentures now offered for subscription are the balance of a total Authorised Issue of £1,000,000
and will rank pari passu with the £600,000 Debentures already issued.
A cumulative sinking fund at the rate of £23,000 per annum for Seventeen years and seven months
(the first proportionate payment to be made on Ist July, 1917) will be provided to redeem this issue
by purchase at any time up to 30th June, 1921, of any debentures of this issue if the price exclusive of
accrued interest be par or below par or after the 30th June, 1921, by yearly drawings within fourteen
days from the 30th June in each year.
Every debenture so drawn shall become payable and be redeemed at its face value with accrued
interest thereon (if any) added on 31st December next after such drawing.
The moneys required for such purchase or redemption of Debentures shall be drawn from such
Cumulative Sinking Fund account. This fund will be kept separate and distinct from the fund provided
for purchase or redemption of the first issue of £600,000.
The debentures will be secured jointly with the said issue of £600,000 by a specific charge or mort-
gage to the Trustees for debenture holders on specific assets of the Company now representing those
specifically charged or mortgaged by a Trust Deed of the 27th July, 1914, and by a floating charge created
by the same deed on the general undertaking and assets of the Company exclusive of any of the Com-
pany’s uncalled or unpaid capital.
The Debentures will be to Bearer with interest coupons attached and will be issued in sums of £lOO.
Provisional Bearer certificate will be issued on payment of the amount due on allotment and may
be exchanged by Bearer for Debentures on payment of final instalment.
The Debentures will carry interest at the rate of SIX per cent, per annum and the coupons will be
payable half-yearly on the Ist days of January and July.
The moneys secured will at the holder’s option be -paid as to principal at the offices of the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide or London and as to interest either at any of
such offices or at the said Bank’s offices in Brisbane, Perth or Hobart.
The whole of the present issue is underwritten and the Directors will only proceed to allotment upon
the whole of the present issue being subscribed.
The Managers of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney and Melbourne for the time being
will be the Trustees for the Debenture holders.
The subscription list will open in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide on the 27th day of NOVEMBER.
1916, and will close on or before the Ist ,day of DECEMBER, 1916.
Application Forms may be obtained from any branch in Australia of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, and from the undermentio'-'Ofl Brokers: —
TOLHURST, KEATS & GUMMING, Melbourne.
JOHN GOODALL & COMPANY, Melbourne.
FURNER & BROWNHILL, Sydney.
GAVIN F. GARDNER, Adelaide.
A. J. MELLOR, Perth.
H. W. BAYLEY & COMPANY, Hobart.
Or at the offices of the Company in ivielooume, Adelaide and Sydney.
Applications, accompanied by a deposit of 5% of the face value of the Debentures applied for will be
received at the Head Office or at any branch in Australia of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of application can be obtained at the Commonwealth Bank
of Australia and from any of the above-mentioned brokers and at the said offices; of the Company.
The requirements of the Companies Acts have not besn fully complied with, in this notice.
The application for Debentures will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred to in
and sent with the printed copy of the prospectus.
This notice is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe for Debentures, and appli-
cations will only be received on the footing of the full prospectus and in the form issued therewith.
„„„ F. M. DICKENSON, Secretary.
FOOTNOTE.
The consent of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth, in pursuance of the War Precautions Regulations,
has been obtained to the above-mentioned issue of £400,000, debentures.
“The fact that the Treasurer of the Commonwealth has consented to The Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Company Limited making the above-mentioned issue of £400,000 debentures is not to be
taken in any way as a guarantee of the actual or probable financial stabilitv or success of The
Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited.”
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE,
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
m
m
'Ncubatp
0
BROODY HENS for 12/0.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. GASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK OF VICTORIA
Guaranteed by the Government of Victoria.
Established 1841
COMMISSIONERS.
\V. Bell Jackson, Esq., Chairman.
W. G. Mcßeath, Esq., J.P.
Major-General J. W. MeCay, C.B.
G. Angus Young, Esq.
Charles Forrester, Esq.
W. Warren Kerr, Esq. (Deputy Commissioner).
Inspector-General, George E. Emery, J.P.
SUnriARY OF ANNUAL REPORT.
For Year Ended 30th June, 1916.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Total amount at credit of depositors £26 404 284
(Increase for year, £1,360,255.)
Reserve Fund of Savings Bank Department 500,000
Other funds and accounts 39’573
Balance of unallotted profit carried forward .. 66^846
Total £27,010,703
The assets are invested as follows:
Cash and Bank Deposit Receipts £4,992,472
Mortagage Securities, Bank Premises and Freeholds 2,383,485
Government Stock Debentures and Bonds, Municipal, Board of Works, and
Credit Foncier Debentures 19,634,746
Total Funds £27,010,703
Increase of Funds for the year £1,380,588
Interest at 3£ per cent, credited to depositors for the year ’807,453
(The rate is now 3f per cent.)
Net profit for the year 19,885
Progressive Statement for Ten Years.
CREDIT FONCIER DEPARTMENT.
This Department issues debentures, and with the proceeds makes advances on farms, houses and shops.
The amount of advances made during the year was as follows:
On Farm securities .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £152,219
On Houses and Shops .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 442,090
Total of new Advances .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ £594,309
The total number and amount of loans current at 30th June were as follows
3,696 Farm Securities for
8,181 House and Shop Securities for
Total
number 11,877 Total amount ..
£1,833,988
2,232,347
£4,066,335
Net Profit for the year in Credit Foncier Department .. .. .. £14,030
Reserve Fund of Credit Foncier Department .. .. .. .. 126,441
Head Office,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General.
31st October. 1916.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd
SELL WOOL & SKINS. *
Personal attention to all consignments. & Why not #ive them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Peter”: Kreisler, the Austrian violinist
who has been frequently mentioned in war
at latest he was in a dugout in
Galicia is now alleged to have been fiddling
quietly in Amurka ever since the war began.
Anyhow, lie was discovered in New York the
other day in the company of McCormack
and Paderewski, the three being associated
in a concert to raise cash for the dependents
of Granados, a recent victim of Hun Fright-
fulness. Granados, a Spanish composer
who had written a charming opera entitled
Goyescas,” was one of the casualties when
the Sussex was torpedoed in the English
Channel. The benefit for his six kiddies
was a great success. After a song by
McCormack and a fine bit of noise from
I aderewski and Kreisler, the audience broke
out in a profuse financial perspiration, and
it took a bunch of bank-tellers several hours
to mop the moisture up. The Granados
orphans are now better oft' by 13,000 dollars.
__ ‘‘ Jean S.”: In Rupert Julian, Julius
Knight will discover a convincing imitation
of what he used to be. Rupert, an Aus-
tralian, is now an imported ghost in Yankee
films circulating largely in these parts. The
other night I met his spectre in the trap-
pings of a Spanish bull-slayer, and I was
struck by the fact that, in addition to facial
resemblance, he was step for step and ges-
ture for gesture a wonderful replica of
Reaucaire at his best. Yet there was nothing
in Rupert’s portrayal to suggest conscious
plagiarism. It is apparently quite natural
tor him to behave like Julius. He seems to
represent one of Nature’s misguided efforts
to repeat a favored type.
A threatened revival of “The Orchid” in
Melbourne revives memories of the one con-
ventionally human character in the musical
comedy—the languid attache johnnie who
is put in charge of the orchid and instructed
by his father to guard the precious thills as
though it were a State secret. “I’ve got to
sit up all night with a flower-pot—and they
call this diplomacy,” says the tired young
man. He hasn’t been long enough in the
business to know that diplomacy may mean
taking particular care of a poodle.
Barnstormer”: The dear things will
never admit they don’t know. Mrs. Potts
1 omt and Mrs. O’Mosman were reclining
elegantly in their chairs at a suburban con-
cert. Someone sang Alfred Hill’s haunting
little Maori song Poi,” and the two
ladies rustled their programmes and began
to fuss. My dear, what does ‘Waiata Poi’
mean ! Ive forgotten for the moment.”
Sorry, dear, hut I quaite forget. My
I rencli is getting fearfully rusty !”
Fax”: . Nothing that is daringly new
ci ops up in seaside vaudeville shows nowa-
days. The “business” is a repetition or
compound variation of the “business,” of
long ago. Pelissier, the ruling spirit in
the London Follies, was a fertile inventor,
but he has gone where the good pierrots go
and left no successor. The old burlesques
and wheezes are revived or adapted; so the
stuff you get is pleasing but has no bite,
lou have heard it before, and as often as
i 1 • emin ds you of something which was
stolen from the Pelissier factory and used
tor an irrelevant turn in the second act of
a musical comedy. In which case you are
usually struck by the fact that such things
are better done in a quiet sort of way on
a small stage than by the broader-styled
comedians m a Williamson production.
A singular development of snobbery is
noticeable in picture-show ads these times.
Ihe personage who achieved an extraordi-
nary notoriety as Charlie Chaplin is no
longer alluded _to in the old familiar way.
Ihe haio of his alleged enormous salary is
round his name. He travels with a private
secretary and a valet, it is said. Yankee
journals have raised him to the plutocracy
and an interviewer who asked the distin-
guished Cockney whether he ever thought of
enlisting in Kitchener’s Army was reproved
for his impertinence. Therefore it seemed
Charles° dl ° P the Charlie ‘ He is now
Miles Faraday, a popular English actor,
has been injured at the Front bv being
struck with a fragment of a shell. This will
not discourage Australian pros., who have
so often been struck with the whole egg.
Daddy” Lohr, the old theatrical identity,
who went to Waiwera (M.L.) to save his
life is now settled there as licensee of the
Hot Springs Hotel, where he long-time
stayed as a guest. After recovering his
health Lohr talked of touring with a picture-
show, but lie decided that Waiwera had been
his salvation, and the most economical way
of enjoying its curative properties would be
to run the pub.
MY HOPELESS PASSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She playa her part with touching grace;
None is more fair than she;
And shyly sometimes from her place
She seems to smile on me.
But vain, ah! vain, are all my sighs
Emotions deep to tell;
To yearnings and to pleading eyes
She gives no heed—to me the prize
Is inaccessible.
More sweet is she than all the rest.
To win a moment’s thought
I d deem myself forever blessed,
No matter how ’twere bought.
But vain are gold, or diadem,
Or roses from, the mart.
She has no sort of use for them—
Not diamond nor stratagem
Can win for me her heart.
Ask her to sun ? Too well I know
The plea would be ignored.
When she is “off” I stay, although
Insufferably bored.
When ended is the final act
I linger on the scene,
Sensations tender to protract.
lam a fool! She is in fact,
An actress on the screen.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


With old age comes inactive bowel
movement and sluggish liver. Through
weakness, nature is unable to perform
her proper functions, and requires assist-
ance ; without it there is constant suffer-
ing from constipation and its attendant
evils. Old folks should never use physics
that are harsh and irritating. With our
experience of the good results that have
been obtained by the use of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets we can unhesitatingly
recommend their use in preference to any
other medicine for aged people. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets are gentle and soothing
in their action, cannot possibly produce
a disagreeable effect, and are in every
way reliable and beneficial to the whole
system.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are the ideal
medicine for children. No more nasty
medicines that you have to coax the child
to take. After they have once taken
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and realise how
easy they are to take, they will be ready
for them again. They are perfectly safe
for the youngest child and their use will
not result in constipation.
When the quantity of food taken is too
large, or the quality too rich, sour stomach
is likely to follow, and especially so if the
digestion has been weakened by constipa-
tion. Eat slowly and not too freely of
easily-digested food. Masticate the food
thoroughly. Let five hours elapse between
meais, and when you feel a fullness and
weight in the region of the stomach after
eating, take Chamberlain’s Tablets and
the sour stomach may be avoided.
“That tired feeling” is not always
caused by the weather, as some people
would have you believe. The fault
lies in some derangement of your diges-
tive organs. Your stomach is out of
order, as your liver has become sluggish
and refuses to perforin its functions. All
you need is a dose or two of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets, and that feeling of weari-
ness will disappear.
Constipation brings many ailments in
its train and is the primary cause of
much sickness. Keep your bowels regu-
lar by taking Chamberlain's Tablets,
and you will escape many ailments
which make life a misery. Constipa-
tion is a simple thing, but like many
simple things it may lead to serious con-
sequences. Nature often needs a little
assistance, and when Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets are taken at the first symptom of any
irregularity much suffering and distress
may be avoided.
DON’T blame your boy if he is at all
stupid and always at the foot of his class.
You are the stupid one, because you never
thought of his liver; that is where the
trouble lies. A sluggish liver makes a
sluggish mind. Chamberlain’s Tablets
act directly upon the liver and make you
feel bright and active.
Irritability, like headache, is evidence
of some disorder of the body, generally
either indigestion or constipation, and the
cause must be removed. To relieve the
indigestion and stimulate the bowels to a
regular natural habit take a course of
Chamberlain’s Tablets. They have a
marvellous effect on the stomach, liver
and bowels, and relieve all disorders of
these organs.
It is anything but pleasant to awake
with a bad taste in the mouth. This
always arises from a disordered stomach
and may be corrected by taking a dose of
Chamberlain’s Tablets immediately before
retiring. They cleanse and invigorate
the stomach, improve the digestion and
give one a relish for his food. They are
easy to take and pleasant in effect.
MILLIONS rush in mad chase of
health from one extreme of faddism to
another, when, if they would only eat
good food and keep their bowels regulated
with Chamberlain’s Tablets their trouble
would at once pass away.
Cs
v 2
5«
&
Mill
V
./v/
V
fc'\
I hr
tV
/ 2
>-v
?
Ufl
II
<-r\
I o
©
a®
fcdi
m-t
✓'"i «
<ou
ms
h!hi#^r
■Ac-yl~.
Livcrompii Pictures
by-
ChAMBE(?LF\IMS
Tablets -
Old age should be made a period of happiness"
but strict attention to health is necessary.
As age advances the stomach and
bowel muscles lose their elasticity and
no longer respond readily, while the
liver does not store up the juices that
are necessary to prompt digestion. The
result is constipation, dyspepsia, bilious-
ness, sour stomach, bloating, drowsiness
after eating, belching, headache and
frequently weakness from want of
assimilation of food, which mean un-
happiness at any age.
The use of harsh cathartics aggravates
the trouble, and makes constipation
worse, the bowels soon becoming
unable to perform their own functions
without the aid of drastic purgatives.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are without
doubt Australasia’s greatest household
remedy. Their mild and gentle action
recommends them especially for women
and old folks, who should neve.” take
drastic cathartics and purgatives such as
pills, powders, salt waters, etc.
For old and young, the strong and
the weak, there is no laxative that
equals
Jfor- the Stomach o Livep.
The fact that indigestion and constipa-
tion are fruitful causes of organic diseases
cannot be widely known, or these only-
too-eommon complaints would not be neg-
lected, as they frequently are. “It is
only indigestion” is a common remark,
and few realise that indigestion may be
termed “starvation of the body,” for food
that is not digested is not assimilated by
the blood and the body is not properly
nourished. Chamberlain’s Tablets will
relieve the most obstinate case of indi-
gestion. Many a long sufferer owes his
present good health to a coarse of Cham-
berlain’s Tablets.
Constipation resembles nothing so
much as the stopping of the sewerage
system of a city, and you know the- out-
break of disease that would result if
this should happen. Then try to realise
the danger to yourself if you allow
your bowels to become clogged. The
poisonous matter which should pass off is
absorbed into the blood, which is the
cause of numerous diseases. When you
are troubled this way there is just one
thing to do—get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They cleanse and invigorate
the stomach and bowels, and clear the
system of all foul accumulations and re-
store it to a normal condition.
Indigestion and dyspepsia wear out
body and brain, for owing to imperfect
assimilation of food they do not receive
the required nourishment. Constipation
ensues and the victim becomes weak and
haggard. Chamberlain’s Tablets stimu-
late the digestive organs to perfect action,
compelling complete digestion and assimi-
lation of food, and strengthen the bowels
so that they act naturally and regularly.
Remington
UM€
•
'
gdf
gfgfg
fgf
AUTOLOADING
SKOTGUNS>
FOR. field shooting under any
conditions of wind or weather,
tlie Remington Autoloading Shot-
gun is a thoroughbred.
It has grace and beauty in its
„ lines and is mechanically correct. It
places at your command five shots without re-loading, which
may he fired with great rapidity or deliberately, as you may wish.
Constructedunder the Browning Patents in seven grades and with
Solid Breech—Hammerless—Easily Detachable Barrel.
At Your Dealer's
THE REMINGTON ARMS UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
New York London
D. D. Bryant, Manager for Australia, G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
gf
g
fg
“ARAtSlis’' CELEHRAIED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “i like the Celebrated ‘AItAUIS'
Egyptian llenna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest 1 have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
f
A£l4 Machine
With S Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewins Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(neat- Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
&
#
gf
PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP!
*
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
fi
A
N
D
I
A”
The New South Wales Department
of Navigation notifies launch owners,
builders and motor manufacturers that,
after the Ist January, 1917, any motor-
launch, new or old, coming under survey
for a passenger certificate for the first
time, should be fitted with motors using
paraffin, or other fuel having a flash-
point of not less than 73 degrees
Fahr., Abel’s close test. Although it is
desirable not to carry any petrol on board
these launches, a small quantity may, if
necessary, be allowed for starting pur-
poses, provided it is limited to. the
smallest quantity practicable for the
motor. No petrol should be carried in a
closed motor room, or in any closed space
used by the passengers or crew. The
petrol tank must either be placed on
deck and provided with a suitable wooden
covering, or placed in an isolated and
well-ventilated compartment.
c
R
U
D
E
O
I
L
ENGINES.
NELSON * ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
gf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Arnoti’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE- CHILDRENS FOOD.”
n
n 1
r
>
' *
TYKES
SAFETY
<}f Enjoyable touring and efficient commercial transport
are alike impossible without the sense of security imparted
by good tyres. The toughness of Avon rubber and the
strength of Avon casing reduce to a minimum the risk of
punctures or bursts, and the sure grip of the “ Sunstone ”
ladder-grooved tread makes you as skid-proof as it is
possible to be —whatever the weather, whatever the road.
COMFORT
*1 Superior resilience alone can reveal the maximum com-
fort of motoring on pneumatic tyres. Many a car owes
its reputation for luxurious springing and silky running to
the buoyant liveliness of its Avon Tyres.
ECONOMY
*j[ The same qualities of strength and resilience that
achieve safety and comfort necessarily cut down ultimate
costs —of* petrol, repairs to chassis and tyres as well.
Avon economy is the economy of endurance —the typically
British sort of tyre beauty that is more than tread-deep.
The claim that Avon Tyres show lowest cost per mile rests
upon disinterested records of average mileage in everyday
service, open to investigation and capable of demon-
stration on your vehicle.
Agents:
N. J. HOWES & CO.,
212 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX,
26 Market Street,
Melbourne.
Made by the Avon Tnd’a
Rubber Competin', Ltd.,
at Metksham and Brad-
ford-on-Avon, England.
TV
77///
h
'
:
\
m
&>
(Ux
X*
/
"A
2 lUt§ i
m
%
?T«S
l
m
Us
Sv
m
ass
w.
;
<3*
n/.
&a
w
fc&
7 s ®
fH
SS«
ye-z
*//
nra
:
*
St
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit .
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by ail leading Storekeepers.
6
Made in Australia
for Australians
by Australians.
o
1
c
Everybody Sings
its Praises
Soldiers in Europe and people at home.
This famous chewing - sweet is the largest selling confection
of its kind in the world.
Helps teeth, breath, appetite and digestion.
Small in cost—big in benefit and long-lasting enjoyment.
3d. per packet of five big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and Stores, or address
J. C. Gambles & Co.,
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
s
S 3
4k
OP
Cf
9G
■■■
Ask for
free book, in colors:
"WRIGLEY'S MOTHER GOOSE.”
Be Sure it's Wrigley^s.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and , fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
270 George Street. Sydney. X.S.W.
T. C. TROFDSON, Director.
&
Make Your
Own Cans.
<j
We have machines exactly suited to
your needs, whether your output is 5000
or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obliga-
tion, prices and pictures of machines
adapted to your needs. Send us sapiples
of your cans, or drawings with com-
plete dimensions, and state the quantity
you make.
Correspondence in all Languages.
The Max Ams Machine Company
Bridgeport, Conn -
Afjent: H. W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, X.S.W., Australia.


AIINVISNI9NIH3II
3*ter*
Just Bathe
with the
Cnticnra
Soap,
dry and
apply the
Cnticnra
Ointment $
For eczemas, rashes, itchings, irri-
tations, pimples, dandruff, sore
hands and baby humors, Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are
supremely effective.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Go., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
Hunters of Big Game
use the Ross .280 Rifle and its
Special Sporting Cartridge (Pat’d)
Every day we receive letters praising the
accuracy and low trajectory of our .280
High Velocity Rifle and the tremendous
shocking power of the Ross .280 Sporting
Ammunition with copper tube expanding
bullet—patented.
The combination is esteemed, by the hun-
dreds of expert sportsmen and guides who
use it, to afford the very best equipment
for any hunter of larger game.
g
You increase the
chances of a suc-
cessful trip by
having the Ross
. 280 and its Special
Sporting
Ammunition
Catalogue on applica-
tion to
Ross Rifle Co.
Quebec. Canada
ms
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
fg
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
fg
ELEY Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and lfs oz. shot.
ELEY 32
s. & w.
Revolver
f
ELEY
25
Automatic
g
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L? LONDON
Miss Gladys Cooper Explains
Some Beauty Secrets.
The Popular London Star Favors Simple Methods.
I have been asked to give a few simpfe recipes that I know, either through personal
use or by observation, to be valuable to the toilet, and which are within the reach of the
average woman. In these days of £lOO facial treatments and elaborate and expensive
beautifying processes my suggestions may read like lessons in economy, but they are
not especially so intended. They are merely practical suggestions, in which the keynote
is “effectiveness.” All the materials or ingredients which I mention are either already
at hand in the home or may be readily procured from the chemist. Fortunately I do not
suffer from the ailments or troubles enumerated below, but some people who are not so
fortunate have told me their experiences, and with your permission I will set forth some
remedies which they have found to be efficacious.
Home-made Hair Tonic.
My acquaintances say that a good stimulant
to the natural. growth of the hair is boranium.
A very simple, effective and safe stimulating
lotion made up by mixing one ounce of bora-
nium with 1 pint of bay rum. This may be
applied to the hair roots occasionally with the
finger-tips with good results.
Complexion Renewals.
Complexion experts advise me that a normal,
healthy complexion is constantly renewing it-
self by dropping off tiny flakes of worn-out
tissue, thus revealing the fresh young skin
underneath. They say that when this process
is checked by age, expo-
sure or some of many
causes, the complexion
becomes dull and ugly.
The rational treatment
recommended is to help
the skin perform the
natural functions of
“shedding” worn-out tis-
sue. For this purpose, I
am informed, there is
nothing so good as pure
mereolized wax, used for
a few nights, just as you
would use a face cream.
It is claimed that it pos-
sesses a special affinity
for the effete -scarf-skin,
which it quickly removes
by absorbing it. The face,
I am assured, will soon
look much younger and
prettier under this treat-
ment.
The Curling Iron.
Don’t use a hot iron to
curl your hair. Some of
my friends make the cun-
ningest sort of curls
wherever they want
them simply by damp-
ing the hair with liquid
silmerine before retiring
at night. When the hair is dry in the morn-
ing it will be softly curly just where you
want it to be. This method is perfectly harm-
less, even beneficial to the hair, and the curls
last a long time. The liquid is quite pleasant
and neither sticky nor greasy.
How to Shampoo.
Most women, I am informed, do not know
how to use stallax properly when shampooing
with it. Unless the hair is naturally very
oily, a stallax shampoo may sometimes leave
it rather dry. But lam told if you will apply
olive oil freely to your hair and scalp just
before shampooing with stallax, the result is
most delightful. The hair will be left clean,
soft, bright and wavy, the olive oil having
properly balanced the action of this wonderful
hair cleanser.
Is Powder Necessary?
A great many women object to using pow-
der, for various reasons. The following
formula is a good one: Dissolve an ounce of
MISS GLADYS
Photo Wrather & Jiuy.
COOPER
cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of water, or
witch-hazel, and use it as a face lotion,
smoothing the skin with the fingers until it
is dry. This method is perfectly harmless.
I am told that a really beautiful, natural, vel-
vety bloom results and remains for many hours
quite unaffected by the most trying conditions
out of doors or in the ballroom or theatre,
and that it gives a much more natural appear-
ance to some skins than does ordinary powder.
Grey Hair.
I have observed many attempts of many
people to conceal grey hair. Some of these
experiments were amusing, some disastrous,
and some were success-
ful. Personally I believe
I shall let my hair turn
when the appointed time
comes, but if I were
going to try to evade it,
1 would give a trial to a
real old “grandmother”
formula that would prob-
ably do the work. This
formula, I am informed,
has been used with de-
grees of success for many
generations, and consists
merely of two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite
mixed with three ounces
of bay rum. It is ap-
plied to the grey hair
a few times with a small
sponge, and ladies tell
me it appears to darken
the hair to a natural
shade, not like a dye, but
gradually and naturally.
Miscellaneous Hints.
A few useful hints from
my friends on aids to
beauty, are as follows: —
The eyebrows and lashes
may be made to grow
stronger and darker by
applying mennaline, a
specially delicate pomade, with the finger-tips
at night.
Rouge is often obvious, and many women
therefore prefer to use powdered colliandum,
which gives a most natural tint.
The lips may be prevented from drying and
chapping by touching them with a stick
of prolactum, which also gives them a good
color.
Freckles are most effectively combated with
ammoniated mercury creams, of which jetta-
line is the best.
Note. —This interesting article op beauty
culture in general was written by Miss Gladys
Cooper at the request of the manufacturers of
Pilenta Soap—the best complexion soap in the
world. On sale by all chemists. [4
The Tootal Guaranteed line of British-made Cotton Fabrics
B RALCCT>
TOOTALS GUARANTEE IT
Reg’xl.
offers a pleasing variety of pat-
terns and indelible colors, and
retains its charm and softness
through many washings. A
great favourite “at home”
because so thoroughly service-
able. For children’s frocks and
overalls, as for really smart
and serviceable wash frocks,
it is soon found indispensable.
Name on every yard of selvedge
12id. per yard, White
13id. Colored & Printed
To be had from all good class Stores
z**
m
TOOTAL
PIQUfi
Various designs and widths of cord
43 to 44 ins. wide. 2/11 per yard
Exceptionally soft, yet durable
strengthened between cords to pre-
vent splitting. Cuts out economically.
OTHER GUARANTEED TOOTAL LINES :
TARANTULLE for dainty liome-sewn lingerie,
40 inches wide, 3 weights. Free from Dressing
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN. Ready to
wear, replaced free if they lose color.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for Ladies’ and
Children's Wear—32 inches wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
LADIES. Self-white and indelible borders.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS FOR
MEN. Self-white and indelible borders.
TOOTAL CLOTH, The guaranteed velvet
fabric —more supple than silk velvet.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO. Ltd., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
Australian Agents:
STOGDALE & SONS PTY. Ltd., Fink. Building*,
MELBOURNE, and York Street, SYDNEY
E 3
The only toilet cream containing leilma
Natural Water. Fragrant, non-greasy,
guaranteed not to grow hair.
British made.
1/6 per pot everywhere.
leilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
Cream
i.c.7.
i. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
The I.W.W. journal Direct Action has
been having a hectic time during the last
few months. The arrest of editor Glynn
and King, one of his chief assistants, was
the beginning of the trouble; but I.W.W.
enthusiasts sprang to desk and press and
brought out the defiant paper, somewhat
tamed. Then the police raided the rooms
and removed a lot of material, including
the lists of subscribers and all the books.
They left the printing press, however, and
the paper emerged as usual in hopes that
the subscribers would find it. Later the
police came down and collared the press.
But arrangements have been made for the
S. M. Herald’s reptile contemporary to
crawl out of another press and bite the
capitalist again. In fact, the owners of the
wild, rebellious thing say optimistically that
they propose to raise £250 for a new plant
—“and we are going to get it.” The changes
have brought to light a new editor, J. A.
Kinman, who has improved the style of the
paper. There is less clanking of chains and
more real argument in its columns. Kin-
man is a dreamer and a revolutionary, but
it is doubtful if he has any real sympathy
with sabotage. He was born in Malta, his
father being a British officer, and ins great
enthusiasms are rebellion and chess.
* * * *
From the latest Italian report:—
We extended our lines westward of the Oppacchia-
sella-Castag-nevizza-road.
A petition is now being signed by cable
editors asking the Italians and Russians to
shift the fighting into easier country or use
numerals. Oh, for the sweet and simple days
of Hill 60 and Pub 742!
* * * #
War makes poetry as well as other
troubles. London Sunday Times reviews
18 new volumes of verses in one batch, and
10 of them owe their origin to the Kaiser.
One in the bouquet is Henry Lawson’s “Song
of the Dardanelles and Other Verses.” The
reviewer, who is quite familiar with Henry,
sums up his new volume of verses as “pure
Lawson with the authenticated Bulletin
swing, sense and force about them.” The
title poem and “My Army,” and “Young
Kings and Old” are singled out as “stirring
and straightforward lyrics.” Another talks
of the “full-blooded, go-as-you-please rhyming
with plenty of flashes of real poetry in it.”
And still another: “Here we have Mr. Law-
son hammering away at war verses with all
his well-known verve.” Harrap is the pub-
lisher, and the price half a crown-
* * * *
Paul Goldenstedt, who was bustling on the
Inky Way in Sydney for the D.T. when the
Devil said to Wilhelm “Up and at ’em!” has
since then been bustling with the Billjims.
News that he had climbed to the rank of cap-
tain with a camel corps cheered up his pals
last week. Soon after he enlisted it was dis-
covered that Goldenstedt was a German spy
or something, and for some time nothing
would shift the official determination to fire
him. Other proofs of his right to wear the Aus-
tralian uniform appearing to be of no avail,
the Intelligence Department was informed
that “Goldie” was born in Greenland of Irish
but respectable parents, and that removed all
suspicion.
* * * *
News of the death of a couple of young
Launceston Wayfarers came through last
week. “Tas” Dobson, who used to be with
the Daily Telegraph, but had been for
the last six years at Mackay (Q.), is listed
“killed in France.” “Bas” Kerslake, who
had been reported missing since the Romani
fight, is also posted killed. It appears
Kerslake went into action dressed only in
shorts and singlet, and without his identifi-
cation disc. A mate, seeing him fall, threw
over the body his own coat containing his
paybook, the result being that Kerslake was
reported missing and the live mate killed.
Before he became Trooper Kerslake lie was
a junior on the Examiner’s staff. Every
man of military age and fitness on the
Examiner’s literary staff has volunteered.
* * * *
Editor Boote, of Sydney Worker,
deserves most of whatever glory hangs to
the success of the anti-conscriptionists in
N. S. Wales, who decided the matter for
the other five States. Catts, who ran the
general anti campaign, was small potatoes
by comparison; yet he bathed in the lime-
light, and forgot to mention Boote’s work
when the fight was over. Before the battle-
proper started there was a struggle amongst
the people concerned in the management of
the paper as to whose views would prevail—
Boote’s or Lamond’s. Boote won. It is only
a few months since he went through another
campaign. He flung himself, almost with
vindictiveness, into the fight for early-closing
and swayed a few drayloads of unionist votes
in favor of 6 o’clock. Boote came from
Brisbane Worker to Sydney four or five
years ago.
THE INSPIRATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I possess a verse-struck barber
Who looks down upon my face
As my chin he deftly lathers
With a swift and easy grace,
Till he sees the inspiration
Gleaming brightly in my eye;
Then he shaves in eager silence
And he lets the chaige go by.
When with eyes glued to the ceiling
And my high brow creased in thought,
I attempt to look abstracted,
As a poet really ought,
He can see my great thoughts flowing,
And would deem it base and rash
To disturb me, when I’m going,
With a low request for cash.
He will say “ ‘Remarks on' Moses’
, You composed within this chair
Just a fortnight from to-day, sir!—•
I could see it by your air!”
And I let him keep his fancy
In his soul of verdant green,
For an inspiration’s handy
When you haven’t got a bean!
N.S.AV.
HAMER.


EVERY RIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
We have the Finest Selection and Greatest Variety-
Trade (Can't B Beat) Mark. Motto: “Goods Right—Prices Right.”
fgf
BOXING.
am? U no GI T eS are , and faithfully made from selected materials,
and aie unsuipassed for durability and effectiveness.
CRB r i , MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
v^.x>.±5 #1 real leather, special value S/6
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 9/6
Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 11/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 OZ . n Is* ./> //>
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6orB oz 15 /6 19 /6 21 /
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
Soz
22 /6
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz ok / ,
BRYAN’S CHAMPION, extra special, 6oz ’ 25/-
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed 6oz 35/.
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., l/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. ~ ptnf4
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed q/.'
„ Best napa, „ rr /
» Tan Leather, ~ „ o T
» very superior, „ ..!!!!!!!*!!!!” Ift/fi
»» Laced, ~ , 12/6 Ik/
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.) ’
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
/in. wide (Post 4d.) 7/6 each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post Sd.) 3/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about Sioz. (Post 6d.) 15 / 6 pair
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
gf
PUNCHING BALLS.
i Me carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Hails. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you m good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast 8/6 12/6 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and IiveIy—
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made .... 40 /
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 9/6, 12/6 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/- 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, Strong spiral spring’ upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 52/6
Above balls fitted with Moseley’s best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, *l/2.)
BALL GLOVES, 2/9, 3/6, 4/6 pi*. PLATFORMS,
33/-, 50/-, 80/- each. BALL AND SOCKET
SWIVELS, 1/6, 2/6 each. BALL-BEARING
SWIVELS, 3/6, 4/6, 5/- each.
We Specialise in All Kinds of Sporting Repair Work
For full particulars of all indoor and outdoor Sporting Materials, see
a copy of our new edition illustrated Sports Magazine Catalogue.
Free on application.
ism
KAYNAPKET
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE
THE
DEAF
HEAR
1]
DEAFNESS OVERCOME
by wearing- WILSON’S COMMON*
SENSE EAR-DRUMS.
Assist the Deaf when all
other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no
relief. They are soft, com-
fortable and durable.
STAR NOVELTY CO., Box 466,
498 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
g
MATRIMONIAL THERMOMETER
Lots of Fun and Amusement. Shows whether you
should marry or not. Von hold the glass bulb in
your left hand and the pulsations of your heart
make the tinted spirit rise m the tube and indicate
whether yon are cool, loving, jealous, warm tem-
pered or furious. Very surprising. The apparatus
cannot make a mistake. Get one and gauge the
amativeness of all your friends. Great fun I
Only Nine Pence, posted anywhere.
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
w.
%
■ «
THE BEST
£MOKE
I s
YELLOW
ASTER
im TOBACCO
fg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Zm
Mother and Child
Baby 6% months.
Fed from birth on the *Allenburjjs*
i* oods.
Are you Worried about Baby ?
HOW to feed Baby is often a great worry to
mothers who are unable to nurse their
babies themselves. Ordinary cow’s milk—
however prepared at home is not a suitable
substitute for the mother’s milk. It is acid in
reaction, contains harmful germs and forms
dense curds in the stomach that cannot be
digested. Decide to use the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
which are the only series of Foods scientifically
adapted to the growing requirements of the
child. You will be delighted when you see
how well your baby thrives on this Method of
Infant Feeding. The ‘Allenburys’ Foods are free
from all dangerous organisms; they are portable,
being in powder form and packed in sealed tins.
The Milk Foods Nos. 1. and 2 require the addition
of hot water only to prepare them for use.
A PURE. COMPLETE AND PROGRESSIVE DIETARY.
MllenbunjsFaods
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From birth to 3 months From 3 to 7 months From 7 months upwards
Unsolicited Testimony.
A Mother in South Australia writes:
Sirs,
“1 see by your circulars you have pamphlets on infants feeding and
management. Kindly send me one, it may prove very helpful now or
in the future. I have a beautiful hoy fed on your foods since infancy,
we tried other foods (not knowing of yours) and they almost killed
him, he became so thin and old looking that I felt compelled to have
the doctor’s advice. Directly he saw the child he said he was being
starved, he was nothing but hone ; he told me to try Allen & Hanbury’s
foods and see how they would act. I did so with a marvellous result,
in a week there was a big change, he is now eleven months old and
such a big boy— not flabby fat but proportionate. He is just starting
to walk and has eight teeth so you see his illness has not made him
backward. I feel I Cannot say enough for your foods and advertise
them all I can. Trusting you will send the pamphlet I asked for,”
Yours ever grateful,
Mrs. H. Pearson.
A Doctor In New Zealand writes:
Gentlemen,
*‘lt may interest you to know that your Infants Foods are largely
prescribed by us out here and are found to fulfil all they promise
to do. 1 find the No. i Food most invaluable. The young mother of
to-day seems quite unable to nurse her offspring."
I am, faithfully yours,
Doctor H. D.
feW' Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management'*
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1715.
Certain-teed
Roofing is weather-proof and water-tight. It is
unaffected by changes in temperature or by
atmospheric gases. Nor will it buckle, blister
nor crack. There is a type of Certain-teed
for every building of every kind —for every
roof, whether flat or pitched. You can in-
spect this excellent roofing at your local
shop-keeper’s. Look for the "General” on the
roll. Ask for free samples and literature. Call soon!
Mr. C. C. McCann, Representative of
General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney, N. S.W.
MILLS IN U. S. A.: East St. Louts, Illinois;
Marseilles, Illinois; York, Pennsylvania;
San Francisco, California.
LONDON OFFICE:
Imperial House, Kingsway,
London, W. C.
Cortain^eed
aoortMQ
■C.lK***
?K2S
•re
“SißVtta:
iniWtfCa
Distributors:
John Danks Dtd., Sydney & Melbourne; Jas. Campbell & Sons
.Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe & Co., Adelaide.
ITTI
1 gii'.
[i
■ i n
i I U
iffiM
111
ill I
run
iibii
WR
RO
rr ■-
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.


Perfect Digestion
Means
. Perfect Health.
Thousands of people who have suffered from stomach troubles and
general ill-health resulting therefrom, because of a badly-regulated diet
and the ingesting of an excessive amount of food at the table, have
obtained speedy and permanent relief by means of a simple expedient—
that of using one or two of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules after each
meal, or whenever any of the well-known symptoms of Indigestion are
present. These powerful Digestive Tabules contain the same elements as
found in a healthy stomach. They take the place of the natural digestive
juices when the latter are deficient in quality or quantity, and do their
work for them, removing the Indigestion by digesting the food and
resting, strengthening and purifying the digestive tract.
There is no other digestive remedy on the market which has been found
equal to Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules; none which is so rapidly and
powerfully efficient or which removes discomfort, banishes stomach pain,
and relieves and removes all the symptoms of Dyspepsia and Indigestion
in so.thorough a manner as these marvellous Tabules.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are sold everywhere at 1/6 per tin of 36 Tabules and 2/6 per tin of 80 Tabules. Buy &
tin, eat a good square meal, and then take the Tabules according to directions, and
note the result. You will forget all about it if you are not careful, for there will be
No Pain or Disturbance, and the food will be digested just as it used to be when
your stomach was well and strong. Furthermore, your stomach will soon be restored
again, if you keep on taking them, just as thousands upon thousands of other
stomachs have been, by the sole and exclusive use of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
gfI&HF.U)OWS
2/6
Price
fg
Duty First!
“And what does my little man want to buy
to-day? Candy?” queried the grocer affably as
the little six-year-old entered.
“You betcher life I do,” the
youthful one. “But I gotter buy a tin of
w*±_!>v
oc
E
X
BRMjf
‘REX’
Luncheon Cheese”
m\
34Z
HSt FOOO
PROD'*-
HE
We all have our preferences, and
many of us would rather have a meal
made up of a grill followed by a little
“Rex” Cheese, and Salad Greens,
than Soup, Roasts and Sweets.
“Rex” Cheese is one of the most
nourishing foods you can get. It con-
tains all the valuable digestive pro-
perties of perfectly-matured full cream
cheese.
Try it for sandwiches or on biscuits. Its
piquancy and freshness never varies. Sold
by all grocers. Say “Rex” Brand and take
no substitute.
Ask also for:—
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, l%lb. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
TEMPORARILY OUT OF STOCK.
‘Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
‘Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
*Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
‘Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex ” Pure Food Products.
E
BUM®
Dark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
miIREE hours ago the sun went down
Beyond the trees, behind the hill;
The noise is striding from the town,
The dew is on the window-sill;
And this poor wavering candle-light-
This feeble glimmering timid spark
Beats golden-winged against the Night,
And saves me from the shrouding Dark.
All day the hideous Dark has hid
In reeking cells and curtained rooms,
And lain beneath each coffin-lid
In catacombs and granite tombs,
In festering drains, in dusty nooks,
In cupboards, in forgotten drawers;
Between the leaves of filthy books;
Behind the prison’s fastened doors;
In drunkards’ pockets and in caves,
In harlots’ cloaks and blind men’s eyes.
In wrecks which rot beneath the waves,
In homes wherein the first-born dies,
In opium dens and villains’ hats,
Within the snouts of murder-guns,
Beneath the wrinkled wings of bats
And in the robes of sorrowing nuns.
But now through every, airy place,
O’e'r moaning seas and frightened lands,
Feeling the horror ’gainst her face
A cool wind walks and wrings her hands.
A million million motes of black ,
Are flooded ’twixt the earth and sky,
Seething upon her lonely track
And whirling as she passes by.
And I do hate this horrid thing
Which bides outside my window-pane,
With every vice which it can bring
From every bed where it has lain.
And so I guard this yellow cone
And shield it from each prying breath,
Lest it should die and leave me lone —
For Light is life and Dark is death.
But now my failing beacon lacks
Its strength to climb the tottering wick,
The air is pungent with the wax
That boils within the candle-stick;
And swiftly through the closing gloom
Black fingers quench the waning spark—
The Dark, the Dark, is in my room !
Oh, Life is Light but Death is Dark!
MAOKILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
My Brown Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN my sister Muriel imagined
that her husband was neglecting
her ever so slightly it was her
method of management to- give him a shock.
Muriel is pretty, and as flirting comes
natural to her she would rouse his jealousy
and then soothe him by explaining, with her
head on his shoulder, that she had felt neg-
lected, and, of course, dear one, it was break-
ing her heart.
After that. Ralph would be an ideal hus-
band for six months. -
It was not till Edward took up black-and-
white that I had anything to really com-
plain of. He had suddenly determined to
make me proud of him, and had decided to
achieve fame. He had often suggested poli-
tical cartoons to a friend, and had sometimes
been paid for these inspirations. But as he
truthfully pointed out, had he drawn the
picture he would have got more money and
all the fame, which, as it was, went to the
artist who perpetrated the drawing.
He attended class twice a week and all
the other evenings he sketched me. He took
to bringing home journalists and artists for
dinner, and there were terrific discussions
on art and politics. Some of them were very
trying.
Then the fly got into our ointment. The
artist he was studying under said it was
necessary that he should take a course of the
nude. I did not understand him at first, and
when he explained that it meant he was
going to draw pictures of other women with
their clothes off, and draw them from life, I
put both feet down firmly
“Very well, dear,” ~e said sadly, “I’ll give
up my ideas of an artistic career. It is no
good being an artist unless I am one of the
best, and that I can never be unless I take
a course of the nude. I’d sooner chuck the
whole business than have trouble with you,
for you are my life.”
Of course, that settled it. I sniffed a while
and then inquired why he could not have all
men models. It seems that is quite useless;
so then I made him look out of the window
and said in a very hard voice:
“Very well, dear; if it is necessary to
your career, I will be your model myself. I
don’t mind.”
He reeled at the suggestion. It would
never do, he explained, me would have to
show his pictures and compare them with
others, and he couldn’t flood the city with
pictures of his wife in tire altogether. Any-
how, where was the harm? There would be
always a crowd there.
I gave in, but I said I did not like it.
Still, I couldn’t destroy his career.
Of course, eventually, he soothed me down.
He always does; and in due course he
brought home a beautiful picture of some
shameless cat. But it was a lovely thing—a
red chalk sketch, and the more I looked at it
the more I realised the danger of it. Why,
if th? creature was only half as pretty as
the picture he made of her it was impossible
for him or any other man with red blood in
him to avoid being attracted by her. Women,
if thev are pretty, always appeal to strong
men, especially if they have their clothes
partly off.
I determined to try sister Muriel’s remedy.
It seemed to me that Edward was away
from home much more than was necessary.
I knew he was working very hard, but still
he could have stayed at home more and
made heads of me. But no; always he maae
heads, as well as the other sort, of her, and
I knew he was being attracted in spite of
himself, and, perhaps, poor boy, unknown to
himself. It was certainly my duty to pro-
tect him from these piratical females.
So, for the sake of both of us, I deter-
mined to try Muriel’s remedy.
The most interesting man among the com-
pany he occasionally brought home was Reg
Larke. Reg was an artist, too, but had
thrown it up to deal in wool. He could
draw beautifully, and from the first time I
met him he was wild to do my head in red
chalk. This particular night he brought up
the subject once more, and asked Edward’s
consent. Edward said he would be delighted.
I listened breathlessly. Would Edward
stay at home anu draw my head, too?
Of course, he wouldn’t. I could have cried
with vexation. Then he gathered up his
portfolio and hurried off to his class, leaving
Reg and me alone.
Reg had brought his book and pencils, and
he began right away. But he had hardly got
started when Aunt Susie came in and looked
inexpressibly shocked at finding us so
engaged.
Aunt Susie is a regular dowager. She never
thinks good of people unless they are charged
with some crime. She suspects them till she
considers they have proved themselves inno-
cent. And proof always seems to her hard
to find.
When she was going she asked Reg. to see
her to the train. So he said good-night, and
the drawing was suspended, to be resumed
the next afternoon.
When she got him outside she slipped
back and whispered :
“I’ll come to-morrow to protect your good
name. It will never do to have this man
coming here by himself, making sketches of
you alone, you know.”
I opened my eyes very wide.
“Why,” I demanded, “what’s wrong? My
Brown Boy wouldn’t hurt a fly !”
Aunt Susie sat down with a bang. She
was appalled at my brazenness. And then
she gave me what she called a piece of her
mind, and if all the rest of her intellect is
like it, I wonder how she lives carrying so
much poison about her system.
But the poison sohked in and made me
unhappy.
Next day Aunt Susie arrived in time to be
told that word had come that Brown Boy
would not be able to take the sitting. So
Aunt Susie went forth to do some shopping
for the Dorcas Fund.
Half an hour later Brown Boy arrived.
And when I told him of mv fib he said he
preferred to work with only our two selves
present.
Then he set to work with his crayons, and
he seemed to work wonderfully quickly. He
knew exactly what he wanted and went
straight for it. Suddenly he stood up :
“Behold, it is done !”
I stepped beside him and gazed upon the
beautiful creation. It took my breath away.
I glanced at the tiny mirror and saw that
while preserving the likeness he had glorified
me.
“Do you like it?”
“Who could do otherwise? It is like and
it is not. If I were half as beautiful as that
I’d go on the stage and make a fortune as a
beauty actress.”
I laughed when I said it, but the laugh
had a catch In it.
“Let me make lots and lots of beautiful
pictures of you, and you shall live in art-
galleries for ever.”
And out of his slumbrous eyes came a
flash that made me thrill.
* * * *
“This is to be my masterpiece,” he said as
he posed me, twined my brown hair
round my head in a fashion of his own,
placed a rose in it, slipped my shoulder out
of the draping, and held me off at arm’s-
length- and examined me critically.
“You have the most beautiful arms God
ever put on a woman,” he said with that
sudden flash in his eyes that sent waves of
little thrills chasing one another all through
me.
I knew we were on dangerous ground. I
glanced at the half-finished picture and then
out of the window. Oh, good heavens, there
was Aunt Susie and just behind her sister
Muriel! Aunt was opening the gate.
“Quick, Brown Boy, lock the door —there’s
Aunt and Sis, and just try to imagine what
Aunt will think if she finds me posing to you
alone, in bare feet, both arms and one shoul-
der uncovered ! I’m lost if they get in.”
“They haven’t got a key, I suppose?”
“Of course not, but leave the key turned
in the door in case they try to fit another into
it. What a joke !”
We heard Aunt’s heavy step on the stairs
and just at that moment I noticed the fan-
light." It was wide open. To shut it was
impossible, so I stepped lightly and quickly
out of the range of any reflections, and drew
him with me.
They knocked and knocked as though they
knew I was in. Then they went downstairs
and borrowed chairs from Mrs. Hay. I
began to grow desperate. Suppose they
waited till Edward returned.
Then I nearly screamed. Muriel had
formed the mad idea of trying to get through
the fanlight, and she was so small and
athletic it was more than likely she would
succeed.
There were curtains over an alcove at the
end of the room and I hastily dived behind
them and drew the Brown Boy after me, and,
as I peeped out, Muriel’s head came through
the fanlight.
I put my mouth to his ear and whispered:
“Be prepared to drop from the balcony into
the garden. I’m sure she’s coming right in.”
Muriel was halfway in, and suddenly my
blood froze. There were his hat and gloves
on the chair. And Muriel halfway through
the fanlight was staring at them wonderingly.
She cast one long, suspicious glance around
the room. Her face grew suddenly dark, and
then I heard her say:
“It’s no good, Aunt; I’ll break my neck if
I go through. Let’s get home again.”
Then she drew back, and in the sudden
relief I found I had been clinging to him
with both arms, and that he was holding my
waist.
We heard the front door close and the front
gate clang. Still he did not release me and
I still clung to him. I shut my eyes—l
felt intuitively the rush of the storm.
(Continued on next page.)


Have You an
a
y
art
f
Boils, Pimples, Spots, Rashes 8 other
Spring Skin-Troubles Banished.
WITH the approach of Spring do you find little
rough patches on your forehead, or cheek, or
chin? Has your skin a curious “tight” feeling? Are
your hands or finger-ends sore? Is your skin disfigured
by nasty pimples, boils, abscesses or eruptions? Have
you a raw, tender feeling where your skin creases—or
are you very liable to chafing about the neck?
These “danger signals,” which constitute the first
signs of an unhealthy skin, should never be neglected.
Following in their train are all the tortures of fiery
eczema, wide-reaching blood poison, and ulcerous sores.
Nothing is more important than the way we should
treat this skin disease. It is not the slightest use rely-
ing upon any internal remedy or external application if
these do not reach the impurity itself, which is the
cause of the disorganisation in our delicate and intricate
tissues. Cheap and coarse ointments and so-called
blood-mixtures may make eczema “slumber” awhile,
but the disease soon breaks forth in all its “fire” and
itching irritation, for the root-evil has not been touched.
Zam-Buk is the ideal Spring Skin-Balm. Zam-Buk
is so refined that the tissues absorb it readily; and its
medicinal essences at once attack the disease below the
surface. Wherever the skin has been injured by acci-
dent or eaten by disease, Zam-Buk promotes the growth
of new and healthy tissues in a quick and natural
manner.
Zam-Buk, the invalu-
able Spring Skin-Balm,
is excellent for Boils,
Pimples, Eruptions,
Eczema, Abscesses and
Blemishes; & promptly
heals Cuts, Burns,
Sores, Bruises, Abra-
sions, Scalds, Scalp
Troubles, Wounds,
Piles, Sprains, etc.
Obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores at
1/6 per pot, or 3/6
family size (containing
nearly four times the
1/6).
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
Mr. H. Christie, of 16 London Street, Enmore, Sydney,
says:—“l was troubled with boils, and tried all manner of
things to get rid of them, but to no avail. Seeing Zam-Buk
advertised, I procured a pot, and applied it as directed , with
the pleasing result that the boils had entirely disappeared after
three days' treatment
II
ktnßuk
SOOTHES and HEALS.
5
rs.
-
1
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
zkM
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o’clock ”
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, Ist D.C.L.1., writes: Price in Australia 12/6
“Up to the time of first using a“7 o'clock" Price in New Zealand ... 13/6
Safety Razor out here shooing was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight."
“7 O'CLOCK” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case—the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
gf
I hen I looked into his half-closed eyes
and our lips met. I seemed to suddenly
.arow drowsy. All the strength went out of
me and I just hung limply in his arms
winie he choked and smothered me with
caresses.
Suddenly he dragged me forth from behind
those curtains out into the sun-swept room
and held me. at arm’s length against the
wall. My hair had broken loose and hung
about me in a cloud. The crepe draping had
sapped down and left me bare of arm.
shoulder and bosom.
His fingers held me so tightly that I knew
he was bruising my flesh. I didn’t care. I
liked it. It was a glorious pain. He shook
me.
“You make me mad —mad—mad ! This is
wrong. It’s unfair to you, to me and to—
him.
“Yes, it’s dreadful! Why do you do it?”
You must make me treat vou properly,”
he gasped.
I let my face droop within easy reach of
his:
I his is very beautiful —I’m not complain-
ing.”
Stop, stop, for God’s sake —you drive me
mad I’m angry with you. angry with my-
self.”
“I like you best when you are angry,” I
laughed, with just a tinge of hysteria in it.
He literally hurled me to the sofa, sprang
to the chair, grabbed his hat and, before I
could say a word, was gone. He even left
bis gloves—l have them yet.
I heard the front door close with a crash
heard the gate clang, and then I buried my
lace in the cushions and I was going to crv
but a light step on the stair startled me.
Mster Munel came in. bent over me with a
grave face, kissed me on the lips and stole
away without a word.
I got up, bathed my face, dressed, and set
to work to cook Edward’s dinner. And
among my pots and pans over my dainty little
ele ctric cooker I dreamed mad 'dreams.
V\ hen Edward came home I shut my eyes
while he kissed and embraced me—it was
wonderful how much alike those two men
kissed.
Later on, when Edward had gone to class,
I shivered as I thought of the Brown Boy
coming back to finish his masterpiece.
* * *
But that was two years ago—and he
never returned. He avoids me. And I—
well, I m too proud to run after any man.
CLARA EJAY.
A Natural Jumper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHENEVER I see a fanatical punter
whispering behind his hand to a
reverent friend I think of my own
brief reign as a turf tipster. I did not seek
any distinction along that line—it just fell
upon, me because our stable had been rented
by a couple of able-bodied men with an im-
pressive-looking horse. One of the able-
bodied was the discoverer and trainer of the
impressive-looking horse, and the other was
the local butcher who had a flourishing
suburban business. The flourishing business
was keeping the whole circus, including the
two grooms, who assisted the trainer; but
the grand secret was allowed to leak out that
the impressive-looking horse was “a natural
jumper ’ and would make the whole gang
rich by running away with the Grand
National Steeplechase at Flemington. Its
name was Blue Ensign.
I never quite realised what credulous
people I lived and worked amongst • until I
casually asked a betting friend if he had
ever heard of the horse that was lodging
with us. His eye lighted up at once and he
gave me the sort of respectful glance a
curate might win by casually letting slip
a State secret. “No, old man, I never heard
of it. Do you know anything?”
I told my friend the full circumstances
and he was obviously impressed. He begged
me not to mention the animal too much and
to let him know anything further. From
that time on he treated me as an established
authority on the turf. I was handicapped
through not knowing any of the usual race-
course patter about weights and gallops;
but the very fact of having the animal at
m.v back door outweighed every other con-
sideration. My reputation grew rapidly
and I found that wherever a few sports
wore gathered together the conversation
always got round to horseracing—and me.
It was very gratifying to one who had never
served an apprenticeship to bookmakers to
have hard-faced old sports feeding out of
the hand.
Perhaps my greatest triumph was scored
on the evening Dr. Mick took me along to
tbo \ elocipede Club. When everybody had
become flushed and talkative, Dr. Mick
started to draw medical diagrams on the
bar counter by way of illustrating a story of
Ins. When he was in the dead centre of his
yarn, he mentioned quite casually that I
had the Grand National winner stabled down
at my house. After that none of the com-
pany had any time for him. The club bar-
man leant as far over the counter as he
could and the Velocipede Clubmen crowded
around and begged me to tell them all about
it. I told them all I could remember —how
the butcher was keeping the trainer and
the trainer was keeping the horse and two
grooms, and how the hdrse was expected to
turn round and keep the lot of them. To
me it sounded about as interesting as some-
thing out of “The Child’s First Reader” ; but
the sports drank it all in and asked for
more. I then recounted the loud, blasphe-
mous arguments that went on day and night
about the diet of Blue Ensign, and how the
trainer walked round the brute last thing
at night with a hurricane lantern and looked
at its legs. Everybody listened with atten-
tion, and a couple of strangers who had
come in for drinks and seemed to be in-
clined to kick up a row about not getting
them sidled over and joined the group. They
seemed quite sorry when I ran down,
and, as they had missed the first part of my
lecture, begged me to go over it again. Dr
Mick also begged me to go over it again. I
did so and then we agreed (all shouting
together) that it would be wise to keep
the whole thing quiet so that the bookmakers
might be caught on the hop and utterly
ruined. They seemed to be so sure they
were the only people who knew that I
hadn’t the heart to tell them of the stream
of visitors who came to the stable in our
back paddock and talked about the horse
from morning till night. Apparently these
people had nothing at all to do but talk
about horses and swear about horses. They
chewed some of Blue Ensign’s straw while
they argued and cursed, and when they got
tired of standing they sat on bags of oats
that the infatuated butcher had bought for
the pampered brute that was going to win
the big jumping event of the year by jump-
ing naturally in a wonderful way of its own
which it had taught itself in Maoriland. It
was understood that the trainer had detected
Blue Ensign in the very act of jumping
naturally in Maoriland and had resolved on
the spot to devote the rest of the year to
training him for the Grand National. The
financial collaboration of the suburban
butcher was a necessary evil, and nobody
paid much attention to him. When the
idle sports were in full session out in the
stable he merely led the chorus. The rugged
horse masticated its feed in a perpetual
storm of argument and blasphemy, and the
day of the Grand National approached.
When the first betting-market quotations
were published I noticed with some astonish-
ment that the bookmakers had in some
amazing manner missed hearing about the
Blue Ensign peril. Blue Ensign was rated
by the pencillers as a 30 to 1 chance —and
when the Ring offers 30 to 1 about an'
animal it isn’t nervous about that animal’s
chances of winning. Apparently all the
yelling and cursing had gone unheard —the
secret had been kept. It cheered me up
greatly. There had been times when it
seemed to me that I wasn’t guarding it any
too well. In fact, there had been days when
I seemed to do nothing else but tell the
friends of friends that Blue Ensign was a
good thing. From what I could hear they
all invested money on it —on the strength of
my expert and exclusive advice.
I went out to Flemington Flat on Grand
National Saturday with one of the sports
who had risked some of his hard-earned
cash. We perched on a fence down at the
far end of the straight—-the part where the
races just begin to get exciting, and you
haven’t the remotest idea what is winning
because you are behind the field. With his
trained eye he saw Blue Ensign sail past
the first time (it was just a blur to me),
and he mentioned gloomily that “the cow
seemed to be cloutin’ his fences a treat.’’
The tiring field was strung out when it
thundered past next time —and Blue Ensign
wasn’t there! He wasn’t even the limping
riderless thing that a mounted policeman
captured when the crowd had over-run the
steeplechase coui’se like a swarm of ants.
“Don’t know what happened to that
natural jumper of yours!” growled the sport
as we climbed down and prepared to go
home. Away in the distance the crowd was
roaring like, the sea as two unknowns fought
out the finish. The race had lost all its
interest for- us Blue Ensignese, and I won-
dered how many of my unfortunate dupes
were scattered about the course.
We didn’t find out anything about the
race until we struck a glum sport on the
railway station. “Blue Ensign !” he shouted
in answer to my mate’s question. , “Oh.
that blanky thing! Why, he clouted
everything he came to with his nose, his
four feet and his tail! Only did four or
five jumps—his jockey pulled off to save
his own neck! No, I wasn’t on him! I
went broke on Fireworks.”
I wondered whether I would ever survive
the disgrace.
That night a blizzard of explanation blew
in our liorse-lodger’s stable, and quite a lot
of Blue Ensign’s straw was eaten by human
visitors. Blue Ensign’s trainer was full of
optimism, and made it quite plain to every-
body that if 14 things hadn’t happened and
seven, others had, Blue Ensign would have
won in a canter —in a hlanky cantez*. He
was a jumper all right —anybody could see
lie was a jumper. But they had happened
to strike a day when he didn’t feel like
jumping. So the race had been won by
something that had learnt how to jump at
a business college. The sporting butcher
sat heavily on a bag of bran and listened
to it all with great attention. He wore the
wistful look of one who is trying to per-
suade himself that he has had good value
for his money.
I ventured into town full of apprehension
on Monday. To my immense surprise my
sporting friends bore me no ill-will. On the
contrary, they buttonholed me to tell me
exactly why Blue Ensign hadn't won. Every
sport had a different explanation. Browiz
smith said he hadn’t got away well. Bill-
wag reckoned lie had been bumped. Dodds
(a constant pessimist) felt sure the jockev
had backed something else. Oddman (opti-
mist) knew the horse had blundered at the
in st fence and then lost heart. He gave it
great credit for standing up at all. Fyshe
passionately denied that Blue Ensign had
hit anything at all with his talented feet.
He described with his hands how it had
fairly sailed over the fences. But the mis-
take it made was in staying too long in the
air instead of coming down promptly and
resuming the galloping part. It seemed to
hover if you could understand what he
meant. Nobody could, but that didn’t stop
fiyshe talking. It was very soothing to
have these deluded sportsmen explainin <r
away my mistake, and I saw for the first
time that, where racing is concerned, Hope
is a drug self-administered.
i f m ee , k , later 1 was told that the butcher
had filed Ins schedule. And next day in
the city an old sport, who had been at the
game too long to bet, told me the trainer of
Blue Ensign made a comfortable living by
lucking up natural jumpers and then pick-
ing- out natural payers, so that he always
had a bag of chaff to sit on and a stable to
curse away the days in.
The horse may be a noble animal, but it’s
a pity it can’t speak and tell the truth about
itselr.
KODAK.


Hi
(Cross)
k 0
r
b
CD
EL
■777rrm-/rs777Trmrr?}»v»///>A
10-ft.p. Oil Engine driving Air Compressor at 650 r.p.\
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
/
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
The Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
[9
g
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYIiR'S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most peifect Ilair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared bv the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them bv
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World'
SAfECUARDYoun health
OtJ-Col!is BrooD^s
( mdyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
»,.d in in. C^JkgWWCHIw and
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists . Prices in England, 1/3, 8/-, 6/-.
Made in England.
fg
Dinneford's
IlWHaMrfriM
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINMEFORD’S’*
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
M
hk
ESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
m
m
.. .i ■
Eckersley’s Soda Fountains
and Aerated Water Machines
Specially designed for CAFES, HOTELS, etc. in Austral ia.
SAVE jobber's profits by purchasing DIRECT from th« manufacturers.
As we are the sole manufacturers of the apparatus we sell, we can absslutely guarantee
the workmanship of onr installations. Complete Plants from £25 8 Upwards.
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS,
Rawson Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney
(Opp. Main Entrance Railway Station).
QUEENSLAND.-—Elliott, Donaldson A Douglas, Qtieen Street. BRISBANE.
S. AUSTRALIA.—A. M. Bickford & Sons, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
N. ZEALAND.—John Rigg & Son. Dixon Street. WELLINGTON.
Good Health
Y*y3»=
m
in every hox of
BEECH AM’S
rtaw'”""'
tool
is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Seif-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.-
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
f
OSTER
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Os ter iVSfg. Co.
aj Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
gf
gfg
ilf any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
AT any height, at any temperature, in any
climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, under any load,
f
The Famous
Schebler Carburetter
“The Heart of the Auto-
mobile” sends a never-
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, for Australasia, [l


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
mm
LEATHER
•m
whioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square. SYDNEY (only).
SEND HOR PRICE LIST.
:-v-
-#fflf ;'•#
«PBk& ‘•■■■•sti'-"-''-'*;
PARKE & LACY GO. LTD.,
a BUFFALO
FOR EVERY SERVICE.
VOLUME BLOWERS and EXHAUST FANS
... for .
VENTILATING & COOLING
Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, etc.
BLOWING
Supplying blast to Cupolas, Forges, Fur-
naces, etc.
EXHAUSTING
Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc., and
Refuse from Woodworking Plants.
Write for full, descriptive Buffalo Catalogue
—it fully describes tiie Fan best suited for
your requirements.
AGENTS —
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and
by its acceptance in the following ; . n'tant
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—-
JAMES HARD/E & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & LTD., Newcastle.
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept Free of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
aten Neiyamho Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria*
Protect Your BOILERS
Registered
Not a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon
to be applied to the internal Surfaces of Boilers like a paint.
USED REGULARLY IN MANY OF THE LARGEST
STEAM PLANTS IN AUSTRALIA.
Descriptive Pamphlet on application to the SOLE A(I ENTS—
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Warburton, Franki, Limited
Electrical and Mechanical Engineers,
309 Kent St., Sydney; 389 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Stocks
Dynamos
Motors
Wires & Cables
Electrical Goods
Accumulators
Blackman Fans
Semi-Diesel Engines
of All Description.
en
is
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with one long' Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
'en
s
All British
made, and the
most up-to-date
machine.
gf
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
»le Agents
for Australia—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.,
9-13 YOUNG STREET.
SYDNEY.
Agents In all
the States,
mm
m
The “ABBOTT” Australian Water Filter.
If you desire absolutely Pure Brim King Water asK your
Dealer for ao “ABBOTT.**
Tbe ABBOTT** is made for all purposes—
Household Pressure: To attach to Water Main.
Household Fountain: In Majolica, Glared Stone, Terra Cotta,
Glass Table, Water Bag, Pocket, Tank.
Large Service for Butter Factories, Cordial MaKers, etc.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ƒ
