

DEWAR’S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
9
nery Merchants,
107 Kent S treet, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N S W-MONT DE PIETE D SI C? LIB
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building. And at Telephone: City 9820.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
SiiinfgffllT?nnßtu»issMiHiiiinnrißTrTiEi '
u.ym
■ ili I
ii flyyii ilwlwlul a
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR 50-PAGE BOOK.
OSCILLATING
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY.
WALL
GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
BEDS
For In- and Out-door Sleeping.
American Wall Bed Co.,
380 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
s s.rb.
vttITTONS
iaAMS&BACOH
CHUBBS
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
u
m
INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSiA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
ut
Royal
Dutch
303
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
“Not the same as others.”
L,et us tell you why you
cannot get any roofing better
than
I D
Roofing:.
And let us send you samples
of the finest of all materials
for walls and ceilings—that’s
anMiiAiv
The paraffine Paint Co., Chains House, Sydney. D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 11
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a* Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Cpncentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.37.—N0. 1913.]
[Thursday, October 12, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


MOTOR HANDBOOKS
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
The Motor Manual, 19th edition, illus. 2/- (3d,).
Ignition IVvices, by S. R. Bottone, illus. 2/- (2d.),
ABC of Automobile Driving, by A. H. Verrill, illus.
2/9 (2d.).
The Light Oar Handbook, illus. 2/- (2d.).
The Motor Cycling Manual, 4th edition, illus. 1/6 (2d.),
Thc iSr'is!/- A (S7 obile > hy Hohbs :in<i Elliott,
The Modern Motor' Cycle, by B. H. Davies, illus.
Moto illS7 k 2/ a - n, (2d°) W t 0 Manage Them ' l?th edition,
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
HOUSE ELIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE ANL
FILTH.
RILL THAT FLY.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, and a sample tin of “Must-
die” Powder will be sent post free, or
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
"MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
The Red Page
What Does the Firing-line Read?
The war has done another startling thing:
it has created a new reading public, a sepa-
rate community that numbers millions. In
the trenches at the present moment there
are millions of English-speaking men, all
within the same limits of age, a compact
mass dwelling in a close companionship in
a definite locality distinctly fenced off from
the rest of the world. And practically every
member of this community can read and has
acquired the reading habit. In previous
wars this situation did not arise; the
majority of the soldiers read with difficulty,
and, owing to the absence of the daily news-
paper, did not feel the deprivation of read-
ing matter during their campaigns. But
here, one would think, is the ideal reading
public that an author and a publisher would
desire. The sort of book that would appeal
to one of that public would probably appeal
to five millions of them. It is not suggested
that the literary tastes of the whole mass
of persons of the one sex are the same; but
beneath individual likings tin 1 re is a common
basis of general literary interest. That
community is, technically, a crowd ; and the
playwright appealing to an audience, the
striker appealing to his union, or the bar-
rister appealing to a jury, knows that there
is a collective response if he can touch the
heart of that crowd. What a circulation a
book would achieve that appealed to the
basic wants of that huge new section of
readers! Every literary taste or lack of
taste has gone to the making of that new
reading public; but the change from a
variety of lives to a new life common to all
must bring about a- general desire for a
special sort of reading matter.
But there is no sign in the publishers’
lists of any special class of reading designed
solely for the man in the trench. And the
author or the publisher who divines the
literary needs of this new r public would do a
tremendous business.
What does the man in the trench want to
read? Does anybody know? Has anybody
tried to find out? Is there any authentic
call from the firing-line for any particular
class of reading? Is any author deliberately
trying to write the sort of book that will
interest the soldier, and solely the soldier?
Haven’t all authors and all publishers
hitherto had their eyes upon a general circu-
lation. partly civil, partly khaki? Has any-
body come to the conclusion .that, despite
the inevitable variation in literary likings
in the firing-line, the great mass of our
armies requires a certain sort of literary
commodity done up in a certain way?
Let us consider the sort of stuff that may
be required. To begin with, all the readers
are male. That surely cuts out the senti-
mental mush, the work of popular authors
who have definitely appealed to the great
majority of readers—the woman, especially
the young woman. Here is a new reading
public without women, a public that has
never patronised the subscription libraries,
upon the demand from which the circulation
of a novel usually depends. Then these new
readers are living in utterly new r conditions;
they are at close grips with reality; they
know what life is like, reduced to the lowest
common denominator of humanity. Will
they put up with alleged romance, especially
faked historical romance? Will these
strenuous males have any use for The
Prisoner of Zenda school, or the foreign
American business hero, making millions by
manipulating stocks? They are living in
sordid conditions. Will they require real-
ism? There is no poetry in their lives.
Will they have any patience with the poets?
Do they want to read about themselves?
Do they ask for the war-novel? Is it humor
they yearn for, and if humor, is it Stephen
Leacock and A Dominie's Log, or the humor
of the trenches? Will the fact that they
are making history lead their minds to the
great historians? Or would the ever-present
menace of death turn them to theology ?
Then, with the instinct that leads the
soldier’s wife to refuse to read the war
news, and an audience to stay away from
war plays, will the man in the firing-line
object to read anything dealing, with his
present job, and find relaxation in Tenny-
son, The Sentimental Bloke, the Higher
Criticism or the reports of the prize fight?
We do not know. The authors do not
know. The publishers do not know. This
page would like to know, from the only
person who does know—Billzac. Will that
bloke kindly enlighten us? What does he
think of the literary pabulum which reaches
him, and what is the sort of book that his
soul yearns for? What book is popular in
the trenches? Can he give a list of the six
best-sellers in the dug-outs?
The information would be priceless:
because, as things are, there is small chance
of the right stuff reaching him. Most of
our war comforts organisations are in the
hands of women. The books that are sent
to the Front, to the firing-line, to the trans-
ports, to the field hospitals, are largely
selected and sent by women. It is their job
to choose the reading matter for a body of
readers who are exclusively male. And how
can they judge the sort of reading that those
young males require? And if they did know
their men’s needs would they provide them ?
Suppose that what the men at the Front
require is something Rabelaisian? Suppose
Billzac requires stronger meat than the
best-seller in America provides? What
feminine war comforts committee would
sanction the despatch of large quantities of
a modern Rabelais ? Or if the paramount soul-
hunger of the trenches was for modern meta-
physics, what nice girl would send to her boy
the latest Bergson, when she had just read
The Bywonner and When a Man's a Man?
For the drawback to this new compact
reading public is that it cannot be directly
reached. No publisher is allowed to send
his agent to the firing-line; there are no
bookstalls in the communication trenches.
The book for the trenches must be sold'
second-hand ; it must first appeal sufficiently
to the civilian public before it has a chance
of reaching the public for which it was
written. And the public that buys the book
is not the public for which it is ultimately
intended. It must pass through one strata
of readers before it can reach an entirely
different strata. And so the book for the
trenches is forced to depend upon its attrac-
tion for the female, with the hope that ulti-
mately it may catch the eye of the male.
Hence the importance of exact official
information from headquarters —the dug-out
and the firing-trench. Will Billzac kindly
oblige? The only way in w T hich he can get
what he wants is to specify exactly what
he wants.
A German War Novel
Love's Inferno, a translation of a German
war novel by Dr. Edward Stilgebauer (Paul,
copies from Sydney Book Club and
Dymock’s Library), is interesting apart
from its German authorship. The story
begins as an everyday romance of marital
life ; but as it goes on it becomes grimmer
and more gruesome, until it closes in a
scene of maniacal horror. Melanie, the
daughter of an East Prussian landholder,
was in love with Adolf, a young German
captain, but was compelled by her impecu-
nious father to marry a millionaire major.
Then war comes, and the young wife goes
home to her father’s estate, after a piteous
farewell with the young Adolf. The inva-
sion of France is realistically pictured,
with many details of German army life that
will be new to the majority of readers. The
Major, consumed with jealousy, places his
rival in the forefront of the battle, but
Adolf is not only unwounded, but himself
saves the Major from certain death. The
author has made the relations between these
two men psychologically interesting, since
despite their feelings, the two men genu-
inely respect each other. During the occu-
pation of a French village Adolf is shot by
an armed peasant, and the Major, mad with
rage, orders the slaughter of the- villagers
and the destruction of their houses. Yet,
earlier in the campaign, wdien one of his
officers had called franc-tireurs, “rabble,
traitors, fellows who ought to hang on the
nearest tree or be knocked down with the
butt-end of one’s rifle, because it would be
a pity to waste powder and shot on them,”
the Major had merely smiled his superior
smile. He pointed out that one’s attitude
towards the franc-tireur would change if
Germany were invaded. Then he not only
believed that the German civilian would fire
on the invaders, but he hoped so. “Really,
one would soon find other names for the
franc-tireur if accidentally, he should emerge
some day on the right instead of the left
of the Rhine. If one’s farm is on fire, one
does not ask whether one has a red collar
to one’s coat or not, but takes up arms and
sliopts, here and in all other countries of
the world. A German poet made a herd* of
the man Tell, who assassinated Governor
dossier from an ambush, in order to deliver
his native country from a tyrant.”
And in that orgie of • senseless slaughter
of the defenceless villagers, the Major is
himself wounded bv a neasant with a dung-
fork. By a miracle of surgery, for the
fork_ had penetrated the spine, the Major’s
life is saved, and though paralysed, he may,
with care, live another ten years. He is
sent back to his father-in-law’s estate, to
find his wife in mourning—for Adolf. Then,
learning of her husband’s deliberate attempt
to have Adolf killed, she leaves him. In a
scene of horror the Cossacks come, and the
whole household is murdered—or worse. The
Major commits suicide, Thus both heroes of
the novel are killed —which is a realistic cor-
rective of the habit that fiction heroes have
of being immortal. The widow, her life
shattered, becomes a Red Cross nurse. Ap-
parently in Germany any woman without
previous training can become a nurse and
be sent direct to the field-hospital. This,
at least, is what happens to Melanie, With
a world-famous surgeon she goes to Ypres,
all her German patriotism gone, seeing
nothing but needless suffering caused by “the
imperial incendiary of the universe.” ' The
novel closes in a daring scene of tragic sym-
bolism. Among the wounded is a Belgian
lieutenant, with both his legs torn away by
a bomb. His face is the face of Guido’s
Head of Christ; and his name, she learns,
is Josuade Kruiz, translated, “Jesus of the
Cross”! “Josua de Kruiz was leader of a
school of young poets who sang the incom-
parable beauty of Brabant and Flanders.”
IV hen the chloroform supply runs out,
Melanie holds the remnants of the lieuten-
ant’s legs while the surgeon amputates them.
Then the Belgians open the dykes and allow
the ocean to flood the invaders. That scene
of horror is nothing to the scene that fol-
lows. Melanie, insane, clasping the dead
body of the lieutenant, denying that he is
dead, and calling upon him to rise again,
is blotted out by the rising waters.
Contributors are reminded that their
entries for the best 1 prose description of
Billzac must reach this page by Saturday,
October 14. A guinea will be given for the
most accurate description of the appear-
ance and characteristics of the typical Aus-
tralian soldier. Competitors are requested
to be terse.
Sergeant C. F. Laserou, of the 13th Bat-
talion, publishes portions of his diary,
From Australia to the Dardanelles (Sands,
Sydney, 2s. Gd.). Though he was only a
few days ' at Anzac before he stopped one
with his foot, Laserou has much of interest
to tell of the preliminary training and the
work in Egypt. He mentions that the 18th
“was born in the mud at Rosehill”; and
follows its fortunes to Gallipoli, a readable,
chatty and faithful narrative illustrated
with some striking photographs of the real
thing.
Gregan McMahon goes on. The Play-
house, his Repertory Theatre, established in
Melbourne, has now its own magazine. The
Rerertorian, an Australian magazine of
art, literature and drama, makes its first
appearance (Repertory Theatre Club, (id.).
E. H. C. Oiiphant, in answering his question:
What is Australian National Drama? rightly
defines it as any work done in Australia and
produced in Australia, no matter where the
scene be laid. Local color is useful, and
preferably the Australian dramatist should
take scenes and subjects typically Aus-
tralian. But Oiiphant might have gone fur-
ther, and merely stated that any play written
by an Australian in Australia cannot help
being Australian. An Australian author
cannot keep his Australian view-point out of
his work. Guy Innes asks in pleasant verse
“where the dead play's go.” Some night,
when lie’s not too busy, he might go to the
movies. Evidently The Repertorian’s most
valuable function is to put the daily-paper
dramatic critic 'into his right place, and, if
necessary, spank him. The magazine is a
bright tanner’s worth.
The scheme evolved by Gregan McMahon
to encourage Australian drama is fully ex-
plained in The Repertorian. It is an
honest effort to deal with the apparently
large amount of alleged Australian plays
that reach him. The only drawback is that
McMahon does not disclose the personnel of
his examining board. life guarantees a com-
petent criticism of all work submitted; but
as he requires fees for that work he should
inspire confidence by publishing the names of
his play-critics. The criticism of dramatic
script is technical and expert work. Has he
got those experts? For those who are con-
tent to risk a decision from unknown judges
it is mentioned that each play submitted
must be typewritten, doubly spaced, or very
legibly written, with, of course, stamped and
addressed wrapper for return; that each
short one-act play must be accompanied by a
fee of 21s. if typed, or 31s. Gd. if written;
that the fee for longer plays will be 42s. if
typed, or 52s. Gd. if in MS. Plays will be
considered as regards their suitability both
for the commercial and for the repertory
theatre, and a typed opinion of each play,
with advice and criticism, will be forwarded
the author. If a play, with or without alter-
ation, is deemed suitable for repertory pro-
duction it will be submitted to the director,
and, if produced, the reading fee will be re-
turned to the author, plus 5 per cent, of the
gross receipts in the case of three-acters, and
a fee of 10s. Gd. for each production in the
case of one-acters. Plays should be addressed
“The Editor, The Repertorian, The Play-
house, Melb.”
The special Spring number of The Studio
(5s., in England) is devoted to reproduc-
tions of Shakspeare in Pictorial Art— an
immense number of illustrations of scenes
and characters in his plays from the begin-
ning of the 18th century to modern times.
Many of these are in color..
Three Australian Novels
Coo-oo-ee, “a tale of bushmen from Aus-
tralia to Anzac,” by John Butler Cooper
(Ilodder and Stoughton, per Sydney Book
Club), is a commendable first novel. The
author introduces us to the township of
Ironbarb, which is inhabited by real Aus-
tralians. These bushmen talk like Aus-
tralians, make love like Australians, and act
like Australians. And in Nipper the author
lias drawn, to the life, the Australian bush
kid. John Butler Cooper provides, for his
popular audience, a fine murder mystery, a
convincing fight—in which the hero is
knocked out by the trooper—two German
settlers, and half a dozen straight bushmen
who enlist. The mystery of the murder,
though its solution is cleverly withheld and
its investigation is realistically pictured, is
subordinated to the author’s delight in the
presentation of character-studies. And he
carefully refrains from heroics. But he has
a fatal love for cliches, and can solemnly pen
platitudes like this: “For a mother’s love is
the most divine thing on earth, the precious-
ness of which, alas ! many only realise when
it is too late!” Nor is that sentence the
worst that this author perpetrates. Often
he descends into the most painful journalese.
And, his invention failing, lie is constrained
to bring about the separation of his hero and
his heroine by the utterly false situation of
a man who tries to explain, and a woman
who refuses to listen, with the incredible
result that the man goes off without making
his explanation. In real life —and it is
because the author really attempts to paint
real life that the point is insisted upon—the
man falsely accused would grab the indig-
nant girl and make her listen. However, to
his credit must be put the author’s method
with the Ironbark men at The Landing. He
kills them off as they were, we know, killed
off. The usual writer of fiction would bring
back the whole mob of liis heroes, no
matter what happened to the rest of the
platoon. However, he leaves enough of them
alive to provide material for the quite super-
fluous and out-of-date epilogue : “A year or
so afterwards Marion, with little Jack in her
arms, was standing at the door of the pic-
turesque cottage her husband had built....
It was a mellow summer evening, etc.” Still,
G y oo-oo-ee is worth while.
Sophie Osmond is quite qualified to write
the average novel. An Australian Wooing
(Garden City Press, Le tell worth) has heaps
of plot, some humor, a capacity for realistic
description, and the originality not only to
make her hero a business man, but to show
him to us almost entirely absorbed in his
business. Then she has taken a quite Aus-
tralian business for her theme, the attempt
to push the recently discovered Australian
marine fibre, Posidonia australis, upon the
London market. But though she knows
the fibre and its possibilities, a pardonable
yearning to make the most of her oppor-
tunities impels her to add to this the ex-
traction of picric acid from yacca gum, and
the re-discovery of the secret of the old
Tyrean purple dye. Thus Australia is re-
vealed as able to put the most wonderful dye
on the market; and with the marine fibre and
the vacca gum this continent emerges as the
manufacturer of the best gun-cotton in the
world. But, in addition, the author must
include a mysterious document hidden in a
mysterious recess, an absurd attempted
murder with a boomerang in Richmond Park,
London, and even a nice young duke who is
engaged to the heroine; and she cruelly
stretches the long, hairy arm of coincidence
across the world. And her jejune habit of
printing platitudes as chapter headings
would damn any book that had not the sav- 1
ing graces of An Australian Wooing.
But, for Australian readers, this novel is
full of interest. Sophie Osmond writes
freshly, and with an Australian outlook, of
England and the Englanders, and her know-
ledge of business methods enables her to
make her hero’s struggle against the inertia
of the London businessman quite interesting.
In fact, she makes him so absorbed in his
job that his love-making has the appearance
of an afterthought. Still, that is what
usually happens in real life. But if Sophie
Osmond is out to write popular novels she
must forget all about real life. Her sense
of character is List .-sufficient for her modest
purposes, and though the novel makes no
pretence to a human document, and is over-
crowded with plot, she succeeds in weaving
an interest and an Australian story out of
original materials.
Kate Helen Weston is careful not to stray
from her sentimental dug-out. The Pre-
lude (Holden and Hardingham) presents the
reader with the ancient subject of the
Woman Ill-mated and the Strong Man; and
she faithfully provides the shipwreck, the
desert island and the cyclone to bring the
lovers together, and then—this is the only
stroke of originality in the book —she kills
the Strong Man. The emotional Nora’s
marriage to a coldly-correet doctor is
bound to turn out a failure. What
hope of marital happiness could a
young wife and mother have when,
during one of her “moods,” her husband
suggests that “a little bromide wouldn’t
do you any harm”? As if bromide could
calm a woman’s soul! Her lover is wiser.
“What is it your life lacks?” he asks
earnestly. She does not answer “Bromide”;
sue answers, “Mental Outlet.” That is what
every wife wants.... and the husbands
stupidly go on prescribing bromide.
And when the motor-launch drifts away
with the Strong Man and the Wife who
wanted a Mental Outlook, the reader scents
a passionate episode. But the man is not a
Strong Man for nothing; lie respects the con-
ventions, and then Nora returns to have it
out with her husband. So off she goes to the
cane district of Queensland to run a little
country paper. The youth in charge tells
her that “a year or two ago he had narrowly
missed becoming the editor of The Lone
Hand ; but he had decided against it on
account of its being an offshoot of The
Bulletin. He didn’t approve of- The
Bulletin, although anything he sent to it
was eagerly accepted.” And as Nora left
her husband, “she felt like her namesake in
Ibsen’s Doll's House, that, after all, the
father of her child was a stranger to her, as
she to him.” Well, she makes the paper a
success, a convenient death leaves her a
widow, and then, somewhat wantonly, the
author snares a cyclone to strafe the Strong
Man. So left with her child and her coun-
try rag, Nora tackles hard work.
Kate Helen Weston has “done” the sugar
districts with a determined effort to give her
novel local color; and she succeeds. The
Prelude is quite up to the level required by
the sentimental reader, though inferior in
individuality to An Australian Wooing.


we
tC-V
a
•iM
■TfT
.
FXS
X 47
FX 41
<1
FX42
FX43
FX64
o
O
m m
FX44
» FX4
ITFX4O
2 FX 45"
C—
IT
FX46
FX4B
_Juvenile f&shiQns
Anthony
Horderns’
Portfolio
of 1916-’l7
Fashions
Posted Free
on
Application.
No. Fx4l. Coat, in Assam Silk, pleats at side, roll cellar,
fitting girl 4 to 12 years—
-24111., jal/G; 2Tin., 22/6; 30in., 22/11; 33in., 23/6
No. Fx44. Frock of White Voile, trimmed imitation Maltese
Lace, Crgpe de Chine sash drawn through low-belted Coatee,
for child 2 to 6 years—
20in., 22/6; 22in., 23/6; 24in„ 24/6
No. Fx42.—Frock, in White Voile, over Tunic trimmed
French Valenciennes Lace, for girls 10 to 13 years—
-33in -> 24/6; 36in., 24/11; 39in„ 25/6
No. Ix4o.—Tunic Frock, in AVhite embossed Voile, wide
ribbon threaded through waist line, suitable for child 2 to
8 years—
Sizes 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in. 27in
6/6 6/11 6/11 7/6 7/6
No. Fx43..—-Frock, in White Fuji Silk, low-belted pleated
Skirt, fitting child 2 to 10 years—-
Sizes 20in. 22in. 24in. 27in SOin
13/1114/6 14/6 15/6.15/11
No. Fx4s. Frock, in White Voile, trimmed imitation Maltese
Lace, a dainty frock for child 2 to 6 years—
20in., 15/11; 22in., 16/6; 24in„ 16/11
• 4 xsl.—-Frock, in White Organdi Muslin, trimmed daintv
embroidery and French Valenciennes Lace, fitting child 2 to 6
years—
18in - 14/6; 20in., 14/11; 22in., 15/6; 24in., 15/11
No. Fx64.—Party or Bridesmaid’s Frock, in fine
Breton Net, Lace, prettily rucked at low-belted waist line,
fitting child 5 to 12 years—-
27in.. 52/6; 30in., 53/6; 33in., 54/6
No. Fxso. Frock, in White Swiss Muslin, and embroidered
flouncing, low; belted, fitting child 4 to 12 years —
24in„ 19/6; 27in., 19/11; 30in., 20/6; 33in., 21/-
No. Fx46.—Frock, in Ivory Japanese Silk, prettily embossed,
suitable for child 2 to 6 years—
-18in„ 11/6; 20in., li/6; 22in., 12/6; 24in., 12/6
No. Fx4B. Frock, in White V.oile,. daintily trimmed pin
tucks and rucking, fit child 5 to 12 years—-
24in., 19/6; 27in„ 19/11; 30in., 20/6; 33in., 21/6
No. Fx47.-—Frock, in White Voile, with embroidered over
tunic, for girls 12 to 16 years—-
36in., 19/6; 39in., 19/11; 42in., 21/6
No. Fx49.—Frock, of White embroidered Voile, an effective
style for child 4 to 12 years—
Sizes 22in. 24in. 27in. 30in. 33in.
18/6 18/11 19/6 19/11 21/6
Anthony
Horderns'
Famous
Low
Prices
Reign
Supreme.
s<
FX76
F.X74
/X,
FX73
FX66
FX 71
FX6B
FX 69
FX 77
FX72
8 i
FX6S
PX67
0
FX 70
FX 7 5
FX^a
Cmidbens Tub /bocks
School & Col lege
at AnmoNy
ffOJ?DEJ?jVS’
No. Fx76. — Boys’ Ranger Suits in Linene; fitting child
2 to 4 years—•
Sizes 0, 7/9; 1, 7/9; 2, 7/H
No. Fx74. School Frock, in Checked Linene; Brown, Saxe
and Navy; box-pleated from yoke; fitting child from 2 to 6
years— °
■ 18in - s/ll; 20in., 3/11; 22in., 4/6; 24in., 4/6
No. Fx69. Frock, in Navy Linene, collar, tie and belt of
Striped Linene; fitting girl 4 to 12 years—
-24in., 9/6; 27in., 9/6; 30in., 9/li; 33in., 9/H
AO. rX/ 7. Frock, in Tussore Silk, box-pleated from yoke
belted ; fitting girls from 10 to 13 years—
_ T 30in -- 16/11; 33in., 17/6; 36in., 17/H
No. Fx6B.—Middy Coat and Skirt Costume of White
’ . collar a " r ! cufF ? , of Blue and White; also Brown and
White Linene; fitting girls 10 to 15 years
30in., 14/6; 33in., 14/9; 36in., 14/H
No. Fx73.—Pinafore Frock, in Linene; Saxe, Sky and
Black; with Blousette of Check Linene to tone; fitting girls
2 to 5 years— \
20in., '4/11; 22in., 5/6; 24in., 5/H
No. Fx66. Tub Frock, in Navy Spotted Cambric, prettily
trimmed White Braiding, fastening down front of frock ; fitting
girls 5 to 12 years-—•
Sizes 24in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in.
3/11 3/11 4/6 4/6 4/11
No. Fx7l. Frock, in Black and White Striped Linene; a
smart Black Silk tie and patent belt ; fitting girls from 4 to
10 years —
24in„ 8/6; 27in„ 8/9; 30in., 8/11
No. Fx7o.—Pinafore Frock, in Black and White Checked
Cotton Tweed, blousette of White Muslin; fitting girls 4 to
10 years—
22in„ 14/11; 24in„ 15/6; 27in.. 30in., 15/11
No. Fx72.—Pinafore Frock, in Black and White Spotted
Shantung Linene; fitting girls sto 10 years —
24in., 6/11; 27in., 7/3; 30in., 7/6
No. Fx6s. — Tub Frock, in Striped Linene; colors: Saxe,
Skv and Navy, low belted ; fitting child 3 to 6 years—-
22in„ 3/11; 24in„ 3/11; 37in„ 3/11
No. Fx67. Frock, in Striped Navy Cambric, attractive pocket
on blouse; fitting girls 5 to 12 years—
Sizes 24in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in.
3/11 4/6 4/6 4/11 4/11
No. Fx7s. —Walking Coat, in Fuji Silk, prettily smocked
at yoke and cuffs ; for girls 5 to 12 years—
Sizes 24in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in.
17/11 18/6 18/6 18/11 18/11
No. Fx7B. Rompers, for Bovs and Girls, in Tussore Silk,
White Japanese Silk, Holland, Pique Linene and Prints. Prices
ranging from 2/6, 2/11, 3/6, 8/11, 4/6, 6/6, 6/11,
7/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
m


m
“New Rival”
Factory Loaded
Shotgun Cartridges
If you use a. shotgun and want
cartridges that will shoot with
<f>\
»
%
m
r
CvS
S 3
O
iißii anin
m
c.
4>
u
is
A
2
4-.
T^/va^
3
6
Q
the most uniformity, the greatest speed
and penetration, give the best spread
of shot, and are sure-fire, use
Winchester Factory Loaded “New
Rival.” They are
sold by good dealers
everywhere, and are
1
Miif
MA.M. I.VOAI
tm
: u-.\
A
UIWLWAj]
&Q 1
For
% Bwniulvwg
ITIIK TEirrt!!
laanc pußirvisfS
J THt DRi.Ai'i f
\i>fliff; *iff sij^
1
Who Is She?
If you knew her you would recog-
nize her—even though you cannot
see her eyes. She has used Dr.
Lyon’s for years and owes her
beautiful teeth to its constant use.
To safeguard and beautify your
teeth use either
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
To secure the best antiseptic and healthy conditions
that will preserve the teeth and keep the mouth clean
and sweet, use both the Dental Cream and Powder.
Dr. Lyon’s tooth powder is a super-cleanser, polisher and
preservative. The users of Dr. Lyon’s Dental Cream
who vary the cleaning of the teeth with the pow-
der will find this suggestion to be both a gratifying
and valuable one.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores.
Send 3d. in stamps today for a dainty sample
package of either Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth
Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot he compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. liOCKE, TOMI’SITT & CO., Melbourne.
LORRIES
i9p=sp?L
Jl
Known the World Over
for their reliability and service-giving qualities. Built in a factory
with an international reputation for the care and painstaking methods
with which it has built thousands of lorries, this kind of construction
earned for the Federal the only Gold Medal awarded lorries at the
recent Panama Pacific Exposition.
are made in three sizes—1-| ton, 2 ton, 3-| ton, all con-
structed with the efficient, dependable worm drive.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUtiK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
I IS. A.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT
18 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A
Cable Address: Lockwood, New York
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
ARE, YOU
IV A v/ u .
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not onlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It docs away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MODERN TOOLS
m
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
NOR CROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
am
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois. U.S.A.
MR. T. I. CAMPBELL,
General Secretary Farmers and Settlers’ Association of New South Wales, one
of the best-known of Sydney’s commercial citizens, having held this important
position for years, gives this voluntary testimony to Clements Tonic, because he
.states it merits it: —
“Farmers and Settlers’ Association, N.S.W.,
“7 O’Connell St., Sydney, 27/7/’l6.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and
experience, I do not hesitate to give you my opinion of it, simply
putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to he a very fine blood and nerve tonic. I know
that it has benefited me greatly. At various periods my duties are
exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and
I have always found your medicine of the greatest value to me,
having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of
my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling others to benefit by my
personal experience. .. (slgnea) T . j. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any man better or more widely known than
the able Secretary of this far-reaching Association, the influence of which extends
over* the entire State, and whose members amongst the pastoral and farming-
communities of New South Wales are to be numbered in thousands. To all of
these Mr Campbell’s letter will appeal, as equally as it will to his numberless
commercial city friends, because of its sincerity and lucid explanation of the
worth of a medicine the effectiveness of which is felt and recognised throughout
the Australian Commonwealth.
is truly the medicine for the man on the land,
isoninia, Poor Appetite, Weak Nerves, or Brain
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozclle.
Send for it if you suffer from
Fag.—All Chemists.


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
mm
diiey&BladderPills
iese Pills also act on the Zi yen i
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE **
iSti
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
•to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
TOBACCO KILLS!
a
Pace To face u)WA Deal 1, !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker jor 30
years, hut since takin-i your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. <3.
the: great bkitish
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
fet&Afjta
GOUT v
& IUIEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 22!) Strand. Loudon.
Letters Copied White Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x oin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSG/2CO Book, size 10J x
B|, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x 6in., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
jjample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
W
M
4
BONN?
IRISH
COUCHS, COLDSi
BRONCHITIS itf
O* THC thcxv
Sn;>.\
( /C
WJ
rfr*
For Business Men
Keep a bottle of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss '*
on your office desk, or on the mantelpiece at
home. It will quickly rid you of an annoying
COUGH or COLD, and relieve BRON-
CHITIS or INFLUENZA. Take none
but —
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION AND SPORTS
(Under sanction ol the Attorney General).
&
mm
MIGHT WIN THIS
5«650
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
m
m
m
2nd prize value £3OO, * 3rd prize value £2OO,
and 397 other valuable prizes
Prizes Value £3,500
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Barnett, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHIELING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1916.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 9.
To any person forwarding stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns,. or
direct from JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.^
\
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
treatment of the hair and complexion, thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
Well, the less “treatment” you give some good stallax from your chemist and use
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What, cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax aud
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
Photo: Wrather <£- Buys.
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will ndt only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
looking for all your life. The mercolised hair a good brushing every night, and that
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so will be all that you need do.
~ 2. 1. _ 1 /» • r. 1
that, you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
mm
m
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores i \ medi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears an\d the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair —Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of taminalite and mix it with
three, ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered,
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but flow
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not) be
.aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To My Mother.
Let the tears flow. . . .far better so
Than that the heart might break
He loved, we know.
Dear, for your own sweet sake,
This comfort take:
Cometh plenty after a dearth,
Sun after rain.
Surely he’ll meet you, somewhere, again,
Whether on earth
Or in the villages of Heaven
Whose cottage-lights are dim
To us, below our swaying seven
Green-crested elm-boles. Swim
To clearest ether, on wide wings
Uplifted silently,
Companioned by the whisperings
Of angels, he
Will send to lead you through the
lonely skies
Where the slim lightning, turning
in his sleep,
Winks fiery eyes.
Look down and mark this earth-
speck creep
Smaller than grit.
So small is your sorrow; smaller
than it.
Victoria.
HUGH McCRAE.
Youth anti Age.
With rosy mirth Youth slaps her rounded
thighs,
And with a blossom pouting from her lips
Shows the rich promise of her splendid hips,
And speeds an invitation with her eyes.
The hips grow shrunken, and the blossom
dies;
Whilst Age in garments grey one instant
slips
Through the dim portico and tottering trips
O’er his draff gaberdine, and sprawls and
lies!
What mumbling God hath placed these oppo-
sites,
And married them to every human kind?
Age censures Youth, and Youth, her sins to
assuage,
Makes a wry mouth, and on the impulse
writes
“Repentance” ’cross the pages of the mind.
’Tis sad to stand midway twixt Youth and
Age!
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Let all the world know of it! This is mine !
O dear, fond heart that loved me —for a
space,
At least. Although the world, with fine.
Smug understanding, thanks God for the
place
Your wedded state assures it, this is true.
I knew it by the splendid eyes of you,
And the warm love that glowed upon your
face.
This thing is mine ! I knew it by your eyes,
When calling out my name, you stretched
your arms
To draw me to you. There the morsel lies
That might (were nurses not discreet)
breed harms
To you and me. O dearest heart, our love
In this small thing will live, and laugh, and
move,
And feel the ’lurement of a woman’s
charms.
It seems a strange, wild frenzy in my blood!
This is my own ! I revel in that fact.
Oh, you and I have turned a careless mood
Into a living thing; and in that act
I glory, though the frigid world would
frown,
And all the sickly saints of earth look down,
And priests might bid me from my sins
retract.
I know hot yet I love this mite so well;
You, too. I love, who gave the precious
thing
As token of our love’s alluring spell.
That is my thought; and all my heart
might sing
With joy in life newborn in such a way.
And if Convention did not whisper “Nay,”
Defiance unto scandal would I fling.
But dear, we know. Let that sweet thought
suffice.
You have your life to live, and I am tied.
We dare not make this infant pay the price
Of our sweet folly.- Be we satisfied
That Love with this fair gift on us has
smiled ;
Another man will register the child
And give the father’s name —las own —
with pride.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
An Idyll of Rabbits.
Here as we browse and root about this hill
Beneath us move a funny lot of things;
We have no wish to quarrel with their
kings—-
When they have gone the grass will linger
still.
Sweet, browse away and sport and eat vour
fiH
While earth her lingerie about her flings.
And Spring. .. .what’s that? (Cripes! Bill,
that shrapnel stings!)....
Spring cleans her teeth at Nature’s rosy rill.
’Tis sweet to be a rabbit of free will.
To rest upon earth’s emerald coverings,
To feast on blades of comfort idly still
While God conducts old Nature’s christen-
ings ;
To dream, to—bang! (Blast it, men charge
the hill)
Bob down, we’re spotted, love. Oh damn
tkaLWl


r
/JSfjsk
PERDRIAU
AT
THE “SUMMIT”
A Wonderful
Queensland Record
Perdriaus recently helped to establish a
wonderful record in Queensland in reaching
THE SUMMIT, which is a steep rock-bound
pinnacle beyond One Tree Hill, overlooking
Brisbane. Only one ascent of this formidable
peak has ever been made, and the four
Perdriaus which were used in the making of it
were practically unmarked at the conclusion
of the stiff pull over flint-like rocks. It may
be added that the same set of Perdriaus scaled
Tambourine Mountain and Mount Glorious-
two more of Queensland’s stiffest and rarely
accomplished climbs.
The car was an Overland, driven by Mr. F. Z. Eager.
PERDRIAU TYRES ARE MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Mil States.
*:
m
.
! V
mm
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application;, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The Mother Was Telling
Her Daughter
m
“These little sardines, Elizabeth, are some-
times eaten by the larger fish.”
Elizabeth gazed at the sardines in wonder and then,
“But, Mother, how do the big fish get into the tins?”
No need for housewives or others to worry how-
childlike,
/) .
c
m
1b...
REX”
66
Gamp Pie
?ets into the tins.
Sufficient to say it gets there. But it delights them to see it coming out
of the tins packed in a stiff, clear jelly, which adds a zest to the Camp Pie
itself.
“REX” CAMP PIE makes a welcome change to fresh meat. It is carefully
compounded from specially-selected meats, which are minced fine and
seasoned —yes, very nicely! It’s ready to be. eaten right away—but the
addition of a salad makes it “a feast for the gods.”
Sold by Grocers everywhere. Say “Rex”
Brand, and take no proffered substitute.
Ask also for
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rev” Veal and Tongue. Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, ]Jl>. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlfo. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prSnts.
“Ilex”
“Hex”
“ Hex”
“Hex”
Temporarily out of stock.
I’ork Brawn, Jll>. tins.
Pig:s’ I’eet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Punch Tongues in Jel)y, lib. tins.
Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Carers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products.
w
E
X
KJ
mtui
mmmi l
Ml m
n
WAR Time Demands Economy.
MOTORISTS! to Economise You Must Fit
Smith’s British =
Four-Jet Carburetter
WORLD’S RECORD MAXIMUM ECONOMY
WITH MAXIMUM POWER.
S. Smith 8 Sons <ma> Ltd.,
199 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 2087.
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
Many Fine Qualities.
Provisions for Comfort.
Delights of Motoring.
Besides those qualities which evidence the fine
engineering skill employed in manufacturing and
assembling the entire power plant, there are other quali-
ties that enable you to realise to the full the delights of
motoring.
The one-man top, with its jiffy curtains, for example,
assures you instant protection against inclement weather.
The car’s unusual roominess, the depth and softness of
the real leather upholstery, with its filling of natural
curled hair, the design of the seats, and the buoyancy
and sensitiveness of the self-lubricating springs, make
you unmindful of distance.
THE MOTOR IS 24-R.A.C. RATING.
THE WHEEL BASE IS 110 INCHES.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Agents, 136-138 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1913.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916.
Price 60.
PUNCTURED.


Special Notice to Agents
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BULXETIN.”
Y u will therefore be good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, .of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosmun, for The
Bulletin Newspaper €o., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., U/I Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 50.?., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
'JTmTSSx'xUeZzTi,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1916.
"TIE ANTI-CONSCRIPTIONISTS’ TALK
ABOUT OTHER THINGS.
All the talk about something Hughes has
said or has not said ; all the blither about
“the fundamental principles of Democracy” ;
all the frantic howls that compulsory service
is opposed (though it is not) to the tenets of
the Labor party and the “best interests of
Australia”—all these things have nothing to
do with the question now before the Aus-
tralian people. At the beginning, middle and
end of it is the simple problem whether the
Australian citizen wants to go on with the
war or, like Pilate, desires to wash his
hands. That an elector may have come to
the conclusion that Hughes and Pearce are
unsatisfactory persons is no reason for voting
“No” at the referendum. It is the opinion
of Australia on prosecuting the war to the
point of victory that is wanted, not a verdict
on any individual. If it be true that “the
fundamental principles of Democracy” are
opposed to Australia fighting her battle for
freedom with all her strength, then these
fundamental principles are all wrong, and
Democracy is afflicted with pernicious
anaemia. But the people are not being asked
anything about the fundamental principles of
Democracy. They are called on to say
whether they are prepared to continue offer-
ing resistance to a cruel and blasphemous
autocracy—which is quite another proposi-
tion. The tenets of the Labor party may be
right or wrong. It matters nothing one way
or the other. The Labor party never con-
sulted all Australia about its tenets, ex-
pressed or implied, and it framed such as it
has without thinking for two minutes about
what was going to be done if Germany took
to the warpath and Australia got tangled up
in the scrimmage. Suppose for a moment it
be conceded that the theory of compulsory
service runs counter to the doctrines of the
P.L.L. What sane citizen is going to make
that his justification for telling the
German that Australia has thrown up
the sponge ? Rules and regulations,
theories and academic conceptions of what
ought to be done in a perfect world
have no more to do with the conditions
created by an enffiny knocking holes into our
army than they have with the bursting of a
thunderstorm. If we could fight the German
under P.L.L. doctrines or Labor rules, well
and good. But. he cares nothing about those
things. The only way we know in which we
can beat him is by sending soldiers against
him. If the anti-conscriptionists know any
other way they ought to let Australia into
the secret.
From the day Australia entered upon the
war this paper—and it stood alone —urged
that the Australian army should be raised
upon the systematic basis of compulsory ser-
vice. Hughes and Pearce and various other
individuals were good enough then to snort
contemptuously at the suggestion, and until
latelv seem to have imagined that victory
could be achieved by sitting down on the facts
• about the war and wagging their tongues at
the enemy. Yet, though The Bulletin now
has not a word to say for the conduct of
these men, it is not prepared to allow con-
siderations on that score to interfere with
its advocacy of “Yes.” Such a vote will
indeed he a condemnation of the muddle on
which the country has been forced to rely
during the past two years. And more than
that, it will be a reply to the base suggestion
that Australia should abandon her army and
sneak away from supporting those allies
whose soldiers are fighting with the same
dauntless courage as her own, and to whom
the nation is bound by moral ties as strong
as those of brotherhood. It matters not to
this paper that someone says there may be
“danger of hardship” if compulsion is intro-
duced. There will be no hardship and no in-
justice if Parliament and the people do their
duty. Nor is the argument about “our eco-
nomic loss” entitled to serious attention.
Compulsory service for the purpose of rein-
forcing our troops will cause not one-tenth of
the economic loss countenanced and encour-
aged year after year in the past. And even
if it did—even if there were hardships—it
would De better to endure the consequences
even if the nation were stripped bare than that
our resolution should falter in the hour of
greatest need. Every consideration of liberty,
of loyalty to mates who are hard pressed, of
loathing for the impulses which launched this
monstrous war on unoffending peoples, of
hatred for organised rapacity, of playing the
game decently through to the end —every such
consideration claims a vote of “Yes” from
Australian men and women. The Bulletin
is under no delusions about Australia being
better off after the war. Talk of that sort is
rubbish. But if Australia sticks to her job
until the German is finished with, she is
goinc to feel and be a long way better off
than if all she had to reflect upon was that
she abandoned her friends in the hour of
their need.
The assertion that the vote on October 28
will be a contest between the supporters of
tyranny and voluntaryism is nonsense.
Voluntaryism has so clearly fallen into an
untidv heap that even the loudest mouth has
knocked off calling attention to the beauties
of the system. The allegations about com-
pulsion being “tyrannical” leave out of count
the gross tyrannies practised under volun-
taryism—the tyranny of social pressure act-
ing on young, imaginative minds, impelling
thousands of men to enlist who should have
been restrained, and allowing thousands of
others to shelter behind the immature and
those whose responsibilities should not have
been put to the haza:d of battle. From Aus-
tralia have gone regiments of youngsters of
18, 19 and 20; regiments of men leaving
families. Thousands of eligible and willing
enough men, who only wanted a shove or the
ability to see a definite task, were not
touched. And now, when the men who
enlisted are being cut down, a yell is raised
that it would be “tyranny” to call up the
other lot. There is no tyranny about it —
nothing more than a reasonable summons to
citizen duty, to the performance of a post-
poned obligation. Compulsory service means
order, method, strength and certainty. Volun-
taryism means the other thing—the dodge
and the twist and the fumble and the stum-
ble in the dark. Of all the advocates of
voluntaryism none yielded more regretfully
than Asquith, and even he, before abandon-
ing it, said he was unable to controvert the
charge that in time of war voluntaryism
“worked harshly and even unjustly.” No
honest man can say that it has done other-
wise in Australia. It has only been main-
tained so far because of timidity and because
alteration meant substituting order for dis-
order, and looking straight at the truth—a
change always repugnant to the political
mind. The country is up to its neck in war.
That is the one great fact—the certainty on
which every other consideration hinges. The
war is still on. It can only be ended by men
continuing to butt in—and The Bulletin
knows no other way of encouraging the
intrusion of men from Australia than by
giving them a gun and a passage to the
Front. Nor has it even a suspicion why
anyone should believe that “the best interests
of Australia” are most effectively served by
deciding that Australia can be counted out.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior. D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
LONDON LEAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arrived at Victoria station, for a sudden
moment I felt that I was a stranger in a
great city and wondered where I should camp
for the night. But we weren’t long - in
doubt. Stepping out of the train we were
grabbed by a couple of chaps in Australian
uniforms who were obviously on the look-
out for stray Cornstalks. A couple of
others in civilian dress were inclined to
dispute with them for our possession.
“Here! Come along with me —we’ll fix you
and show you where to put up!” each
party argued. A dangerous look of distrust
came over the face of my friend Bill. “Aw,
fade away, fade away,” he drawled. “We’re
not hayseeds—don’t you worry.” When it
was explained that the gents in “civies” were
well-intentioned patriots specially enrolled
to help, guide and make lonely Anzacs feel
at home in London—free of charge—and
that the fellows in uniforms were perma-
nently-disableds from Gallipoli who pending
their return to Australia were told off by
A.I.F. Headquarters in London to meet all
trains, gather in Anzacs, lead them to where
they could deposit their kit and surplus
belongings for the duration of their leave,
show them where they could get a first-class
tea: (gratis), draw pay if they wanted it,
and put up during their stay—well, Bill
thawed a little and followed them off the
platform wonderinglv.
Outside, a crowd of people with craning
necks and eager eyes were searching for the
faces of sons, sweethearts, fathers and hus-
bands returned from the trenches. But to
my surprise and a little to my immediate
discomfort the Australian uniform seemed
to act like a magnet. Suddenlv all their
attention was diverted to us; and the look
of friendly and admiring interest in all
those eyes was my first intimation of the
light in which Anzacs are regarded in Eng-
land. I was dazzled by the attention, and
when an elderly gentleman could contain
himself no longer and suddenly .cried
“Bravo!” near my ear, I gave, I’m afraid,
a most unsoidierlike jump as I turned to
look at him. He flushed to the roots of his
hair with surprise at his own unseemly
demonstration ; but there was a look in his
eyes which showed that he felt just as he’d
expressed himself —and didn’t give a dem, by
gad! if there were a million fellow-Britishers
about him.
We were led along Victoria-street to
Horseferry-road, on which small thorough-
fare there abutted a huge building with an
expansive courtyard where A.I.F. Head-
quarters are housed. Here we were received
like long-lost brothers, shown where to leave
kits, rifles, etc., and were then led into the
Anzac buffet in the same building. I had
read about this place, but realisation ex-
ceeded expectation. We were received
(almost literally) with open arms by charm-
ing women —all Australian —and practically
stepped right back into the happy social
life we had left in Australia two years ago !
After the welcome, ham, lettuce, salmon and
cucumber sandwiches, cakes, and cocoa, tea
or coffee —all served in a way that money
couldn’t buy; just as it might have been
done for us by our own wives, mothers or
sisters. Here, too, did I meet my indefati-
gable friend Evans, of the A.N.A. and the
phenomenal energy, and Mrs. Evans.
Billiard and writing and reading rooms were
there also ; all furnished with a luxury quite
unusual in soldiers’ recreation clubs.
Within a short walking distance is Peal
House, a very large building furnished with
up-to-date conveniences and previously a
police barracks of a luxurious kind. Enter-
ing Billjim is seized by a few more
Samaritans —English and Australian. Here,
at a purely nominal charge to keep things
going, can be had clean white beds in an
airy atmosphere, and a three-course dinner
served by volunteer ladies in a military uni-
form. They are an English Reserve Ambu-
lance Corps, but pending a demand for their
services at the Front they are employed in
running this establishment. A feature is
the splendid lavatories —hot and cold water
throughout, and capable of supplying gratis
the best domestic imitation of a dinkum
Turkish bath as many times a day as you
want it. In cold type this may appear a
laboriously sustained eulogy, but I plead
that I have had two interminable years of
Gallipoli, Egypt, and the Canal.
Then the holiday jaunt through London.
You start out early in the day, and feel that
things haven’t been quite a success if it
doesn’t happen that in turning out the light
you find the cold eye of dawn peeping
reproachfully in at the window. If it isn’t
Drury Lane, the Gaiety, the Alhambra or
the Empire, it is Piccadilly. There the
Londoners are indulging in an outbreak of
cafe life —women predominating, of course;
and the appearance of the Australian uni-
form is an evening’s sensation. God, it
makes you proud of your mates!
The women of London, although welfl
dressed, are not as trim and neat about the
ankles as even the working girls of France.
But for beauty—in the purely pretty sense—
they have no equal. Working-girl or society
lady, all have the same clear, rosy com-
plexions ; and their eyes! I’m sure poor
Bill will never forget that Sunday we
arrived at Victoria and, not feeling quite
fit to drive right away into the world,
walked into Hyde Park. Of course it was
the Australian uniform that did it—and by
the time we had walked a hundred yards
through the crowd Bill was flushed scarlet
and his knees were faltering with stage
fright. For weeks to come his nightmare
in the trenches will be myriads of haunting
glad-eyes. Right along the line were cheeky
“Hello, Anzacs !j’ and occasional more
sedate “Good afternoon, Anzacs!” And it
wasn’t only the women. One old gentleman
had me by the hand, and declared that it
was the vigorous way in which" the healthy
Australians had battled that had saved the
Empire. And he meant it too ; and I’m sure
he has a lurking idea that we can finish the
war when we feel like it.
It is the little things that tell; and I
recall one of many of London's efforts to
make us feel at home. For an evening rest
three of us went to see a little drama called
“Romance,” with Doris Keane as the prin-
cipal lady. We had already had two drinks,
but during an interval Bill and his friend
left on another foraging expedition. Tired,
and neither athirst nor hungry, I refused to
budge and settled into my seat, gazing
at the bare back of the gorgeous lady in
front of me, and dreaming of the rest and
simple peace I would have when I got back
to the Front. Just then the lady and her
immaculate gentleman arose and went out.
too. A minute passed and I was awakened
from my torpor by a gentle voice on my
left. “I’m awf’ly sorry, but you can’t get
anything else to drink after half-past nine.
Would you like some coffee? You are
awf’ly tired.” I looked up in desperation
and beheld my lady of the beautiful back
holding a little tray of coffee, milk and
sugar, while her escort stood smiling in the
background. I partook with the eyes of
the greater part of the house, focussed on
me. But no one seemed surprised.
TED COLLES.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Disorder in the Defence Department.
In connection with the calling up of Class
I. men under the Defence Act last week, the
public had a pretty clear view of that capac-
ity for muddle which has been hidden for so
long because the press was not permitted to
pull the cover off. In Britain and Russia —
and elsewhere, no doubt —administration bos
rapidly improved as the war has proceeded.
Ir: Australia there has been no improvement
worth mentioning, and in some respects con-
ditions are worse now than ever they were.
The truth is that the head of the department
is a good party politician trained to a trade
but not to business, and surrounding him are
military men who have less business experi-
ence if that could be possible. Compara-
tively early in the proceedings the Govern-
ment did send a man of affairs —It. McC.
Anderson—to Egypt, and subsequently to
England, and his services have been highly
praised. But at home muddle and red-tape
have had undisputed sway ; and it has cost
the country, and is still costing it, hundreds
of thousands of pounds a year. Surely there
must be in this country a score of business
organisers who would be patriotic enough to
give six months of their time to the
straightening-out of this grotesque disorder
if they were asked. In addition to saving the
country vast sums of money, they would be
able to show how thousands of citizens who
want to help have been discouraged, and
finally disgusted—which, by the way, is
one of the principal reasons why voluntary
enlistment was so bad a failure latterly.
That the members of the suggested Board
would know nothing of war or military
matters would be no disability whatever.
There is no war in Australia; and all the
knowledge of military matters that Australia
needs at home can be supplied by a few
sergeants to do the trifle of preliminary drill
that the recruits call for before they go away
for their real training. The rest is all
ordinary business negotiation, transaction
and organisation, for which only a business
training fits a man, and for which military
training mostly unfits him.
The Weariness of Hearing About
Muddle.
Joe Cook felt called upon the other day to
remark that he had “grown tired of hearing
about German organisation.” It seems one
of those subjects that naturally would make
Joe feel weary. But if he doesn’t feel even
more exhausted when someone mentions
Australian organisation, he should be
ashamed to admit it. Both countries have
been highly organised, and both have done
things, though of a different sort. The Ger-
man organisation aimed at securing effi-
ciency and succeeded. Heaven only knows
what Australian organisation aimed at; but
even the most bigoted party politician would
find it difficult to deny that in securing ineffi-
ciency in government, administration and
industrial development it can challenge the
universe with the completeness of its
triumph. The achievements of the German
in organisation are mere trifles compared
with the victories of disorganisation in the
Commonwealth. Muddle hath its victories
no less renowned than order. The Ger-
man built up his industries to a state of
high efficiency. Australia gave him great
assistance with material and cash. Aus-
tralia organised a national Parliament, and
found it wasn’t one : organised the borrow-
ing business, and tied a millstone round her
neck; organised self-government, and
reached the demented stage of having Seven
Parliaments, seven Cocked Hats and six
Agents-General and a High Commissioner
organised the settlement of labor troubles,
and got more than any other place on
earth; organised a Protective policy, and
acquired a Niagara of foreign imports. And
so far as The Bulletin remembers J.
Cook’s voice was always loud in the land
cheering Australia on to continue the folly
of party government, public borrowing and
let her slide. If Joe would mention what
he proposes to do about all this he would
be helping Australia more effectively than
by saying he felt a bit jaded.
♦
What May Happen When the Pass-on
Stops.
First of all Hughes, after a lot of futile
talk about sugar, arranged with Premier
Ryan, of Queensland, a scheme for “put-
ting matters on an assured basis.” Under
this arrangement Ryan commandeered the
raw sugar at £lB a ton, and Hughes made
an agreement with the refining companies
to go ahead and do the rest on the basis of
sugar reaching the consumer at 31d. a
pound. The arrangement was right enough
so far as the growers and millowners were
The Verdict of History.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Future will each nation’s worth
acclaim ;
For we, with bloody piles of murdered men
Are building History. The time comes
when
Posterity will summon each by name.
What will that grim historian of fame
Write as his verdict of Australia then?
Will he a paean of her glory pen,
Or a brief foot-note of her bitter shame ?
Shall she stand with her sire in equal pride,.
The ranks of Right pre-eminent among?
Or, worse than neutral, shall she stand aside,
Funking the fury of the last attack?
Australia, who with splendid gesture flung
Her gallant gage, and meanly snatched it
back?
Sydney.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


concerned, and both the State and Federal
Governments felt they were entitled to loud
applause. But just at this point the work-
ers in the business of cutting and milling
came to the conclusion that they deserved
more pay, and applied for higher wages;
whereupon Judge Dickson, the State wages
fixer, said “Certainly,” and handed out large
and comprehensive advances. The result of
this has been to tie the sugar business up
in a knot and provide most of the people
concerned with unemployment. The new
wages may be reasonable. This paper does
not know. But it appears certain that on
the basis of sugar at £lB a ton they are
wildly ridiculous. It also appears fairly
certain that, when a Government fixes a
price for one thing and another Govern-
ment fixes a price for another thing, and a
Government official comes along and upends
the whole blessed outfit, Public Enterprise
gets a testimonial it would be better with-
out. Of course, if Private Enterprise had
been handling the situation it would have
met the rise in the cost of production by
shoving up the price at the other end ; and
then the air would have been full of curses
at the iniquity of the monopolist. The two
Governments could do this, too ; but the last
thing price-fixing Governments want to ex-
plain to the community is that dear sugar
can arrive through the operations of Labor
politicians just as surely as they can through
the nefarious operations of combines. So when
this paper last heard of Bananaland sugar
it was mostly not being touched; Hughes
was talking about a “transfer of powers”
and “hanging up the Dickson judgment”
and “appointing another tribunal” ; foreign-
grown sugar was coming along; and three
facts were sticking out of the muddle: (1)
that a pair of Governments and an official
have made a ghastly mess; (2) that poli-
ticians who try to control selling prices
before they have control of production ought
to be strait-jacketed, and (3) that there is
nothing for either Government to do except
crayfish out of a position that would be ludi-
crous if it were not tragic.
♦
The Man Who Voted “No.”
The anti-conscriptionist said he didn’t
believe in being forced to fight the Germans.
“What have I got to fight for, anyhow?
One country is as good as another to me.
The world is my country.” When the war
was over he decided to put his idea into
practice. He went to America first, and
found some difficulty in getting in; and
when he did get in he found the people were
different, somehow. Just then the Republic
was hastening the construction of a larger
navy and all talk was of defence lest disaster
happen. The anti-conscriptionist didn’t like
it; and when the fourth of July came he
sickened, and hastened away by the first
boat to France. He was no better off there,
for as soon as he learnt enough to under-
stand and be understood he found that every-
body stood aloof. All the men had either
fought for or helped their country in some
way, and they looked on the man who had
no country as some sort of pariah to
be kept at a distance. After that he wan-
dered through Italy, the Balkan States and
Russia, and all the time and everywhere he
was bumping against people who had fought
for their country and could not under-
stand how an honest man could know no
country. He tried England; but England
only talked of the glorious Anzacs,"and that
merely made him uncomfortable. Finally
he remembered that some, of his I.W.W.
friends had sympathisers in Germany, so
In* resolved to go there and get com-
panionship and peace in his old age. But
Germany stopped him at the frontier and
asked questions. He had been in America.
Germany frowned. He had visited England.
Germany scowled. He was born in Aus-
tralia. Germany turned and spat. Still,
Germany wanted men; he would do for
reconstructive work, under supervision and
with training. He told Germany he was
sorry, but he didn’t believe in conscription.
Germany faced him right about, and with a
guttural oath told him to go quickly, lest a
bullet catch him. So, worn and broken, he
made up his mind to return to Australia;
he wouldn’t be welcomed, yet it was his
great-hearted land, after all, and he would
at least be allowed to creep into some corner
to die in peace. But on the voyage the ship
struck a wandering mine and sank in deep
water, and the Lascars that he thought Eng-
land should have conscripted first turned on
him and tossed him out of the boat; and he
found his no man’s country at last.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Bunvood, Vic.]
Should “Patriotic” Funds be Pooled?
By bazaar, concert, raffle, sooling the Girl
on with a money-box and otherwise, includ-
ing the sale of cauliflowers by auction at
£346 2s. 7d. each, Australia since the war
broke out has raised £5,757,561 17s. 3M.
in aid of various funds that were called
“patriotic.” There have been appeals for
the French, Belgians, Servians and Poles;
for money to buy tobacco and sheepskin
waistcoats; to help the Y.M.C.A., comfort
the sick horses, and so on. A lot of this
money has been spent or handed over to
the people for whom it was amassed. But
there is still a substantial sum in the cash-
box ; and as The Bulletin has in the past
been unable to join various outcries for the
“quick distribution” of this capital, it is
not now able to support suggestions that are
being made to toss all balances on hand
into the Repatriation Fund. It strikes this
paper that the management of a fund of
£10,000,000 raised for the purpose of assist-
ing returned soldiers to settle on the land
or enter upon business pursuits is in itself
a job sufficiently comprehensive to give the
individuals charged with the administrative
work enough to do. And it is more than
likely that the men who might successfully
administer the Repatriation Fund in the
direction contemplated would make a
mess of things if they were cumbered
with the obligation to supply Mrs. Anzac
with a pair of blankets or Billjim with a
couple of shirts or make things a bit easier
for three or four kids at Woolloomooloo.
It is all very well to snort at the small
fussy local committee and say that the
money now in hand should be administered
by a central authority. The fact is that
centralisation of some tilings is impossible.
The local Bumble or committee is the only
possible avenue through which the problem
of the person who wants a pair of boots or
some chops anti wants them quickly can be
handled. The ameliorative funds were
■raised for a clear purpose. They should be
jealously guarded against diversion, for the
need of them has proved to be very real.
There will be a use for every penny in hand
before the unpleasantness is over ; and by the
time another year has passed a committee
in Melbourne or Sydney with £lOO,OOO in
the bank will be able to find something
quite useful to do with it. And one that
tried to replenish its funds by selling cauli-
flowers at £.'140 2s. 7d. each would certainly
have a hard row to hoe.
War-time Profits.
Treasure# Higgs made a mistake in going
into any details at all in connection with his
war-time profits tax. Evidently nothing what-
ever has been decided except that there shall
be such a tax, and that is all that should
have been given out. The contradictory, con-
fusing announcements on the subject have
been made use of by the bold to rook the
nervous. Still some helpful comment has
been evoked. In particular, Higgs ought by
this time to have realised that any scheme
for collaring mining dividends in excess of
7 or 8 per cent, is likely to be unjust. The
simple truth is that very few mines ever
pay any dividends at all. The so-called
dividends that most mines pay are a mere
trifle towards return of capital. If Higgs
and Bruce Smith between them bought a
load of fruit and vegetables for £2O .and
went hawking, they would be able to start
paying “dividends” at the end of the first
street. But it wouldn’t be profit that they
were dividing. The profit—the true dividend
—would only be anything realised in excess of
£2O. According to some translators of his
verbal hieroglyphics, the Treasurer says in
effect to lliggs and his cobber Smith : “If
you recover more than 8 per cent, of your
capital in a year the Treasury will collar it.”
That difficulty will have to be got over;
otherwise, as the chairman of the Australian
Distilling Co. suggested the other day, people
will simply postpone the realisation of their
assets. On all fours with the wastage of
assets, such as those of a mine, is the depre-
ciation of plp,nt, etc. There has long been a
grievance against income-tax collectors —
and especially the Commonwealth income-tax
collector —in this respect. Some of the deduc-
tions allowed are neither more nor less than
ludicrous. If, say, a manufacturer is not per-
mitted to take for himself more than 7 or 8
per cent., and the allowance for deprecia-
tion is cut so low T that the profit is inflated,
the Commonwealth will really be collaring
bogus profit—money, that is, which will
have to be. spent presently in renewals or
replacements. And because such monev will
have to be spent, the manufacturer’s real
return will be much less than 7 or 8 per
cent. Though it may be bad patriotism, it
may be good business for such a manufac-
turer to simply hang up the least profitable
part of his machinery. The difficulty could
be more or less got over if the Common-
wealth, instead of collaring all excess profits,
allowed the man or company that made
them to hang on to some of them; and,
though there is a doubt about it, that may
be the intention. It certainly should be. To
fix a standard at all is a clumsy proceeding
and liable to produce a lot of injustice. In one
street in a southern city there are two people
carrying on the same kind of business. One
is an old-fashioned, hard-working semi-private
concern which, though its business has
grown enormously, hasn’t troubled to in-
crease its nominal capital for years. It has
spent tens of thousands of pounds in adver-
tising and establishing a connection and a
credit, and probably makes now 25 per cent.
The other, certainly no more honest, decided
years ago to increase the capital of the con-
cern, and did so; and to-day it shows only
6 per cent.—simply because it watered its
stock. It is monstrous that the one should
escape this war-time taxation and the other
should pay so much. If the man who is
making 25 per cent, is to hang on to only 7
or 8 per cent., what inducement is there for
him to make the other 17 per cent? To do
it he may—probably will —have to take large
risks. He may have to stock with goods
that are three or four times above normal
price and liable to a severe fall when the
war ends. On that fall he may lose heavily.
If he is not to get more than 7 or 8 per-
cent., which he can make on a few lines, will
he take the risk of heavy loss just men-
tioned? There should be no such thing as
war profits. And, admittedly, even with all
war profits taken, the nation would still have
to get in a lot of money. Nobody can reason-
ably object to that. But the Treasurer’s
business is to raise the money in such a
way that the decent, enterprising citizen is
not penalised to save the “smart” one and
the adventurer; and at the same time he
ought to see that he does not impose a tax
which will have the effect of turning off the
flow of money at the source. He needs, in
short, to encourage men to make a lot of
money so that he may get a bit of it; and
the only way in which he can encourage
them is by giving them a share.
— + —
Is There an Uncle Sam?
“Exile’s” impressions:—
To clear the ground for a better understanding of
TJ.S.A. opinion about the war, two main facts should
be grasped. The United States Republic is divided
into two parts, the East and the West. Not into two
nations, because it is not even one nation excepting
for diplomatic purposes. The U.S.A. is not a nation
in the sense that France is a nation—a community
of people with the same ideals, faiths and objects,
closely united by love of country. The U.S.A. is a
discordant multitude of people, pursuing one objec-
tive —four-and-tuppenee.
In the United States, democracy has failed because
it has neither bred nor trained leaders. The demo-
cracy of France has succeeded and is maintaining its
entity because the people control the politicians and
there is no party government. In the United States,
weak men reach the top and strong men are told by
the mob of electors, vvitli the curtness of the placard
on their factory gates: “Keep Out.” Look at the
leaders. Woodrow Wilson, trained to lead a Kinder-
garten; William Jennings Bryan, a silver-tongued
uttcrer of platitudes, an eternal talker, the Lord
Haldane and leading- pro-German of the U.S.A.; and
Charles E. Hughes, an opportunist lawyer. Little
men, puny politicians, writers and talkers, but not
fighters; merely vote-catchers and place-holders.
Thrice President Wilson went into war with Mexico,
and thrice he backed down.
There are 22 million Germans and Austrians by
birth or origin amongst the 100 millions of Yankees.
That fact ought never to be forgotten, nor that one
in every three Americans is of foreign descent. “Our
American cousins” is a false phrase, and the silly
expression, “Anglo-Saxon,’’ as applied to an American
is mere slobber. He is Celtic, Slav, Scandinavian,
Latin, Semitic, Mongolian, Teuton. He is chiefly an
Anglophobe during childhood and school age because his
histories and story-books teach him that Great Britain
was a bad, cruel, tyrannical, bloodthirsty country 140
. years ago, when George Washington, the greatest
man of all the ages, led the useless rebellion.
Although the people of British descent have dwindled
away to a mere handful, comparatively, American
children are still taught that the Battle of Saratoga
was the dawn of liberty on earth, and Tom Jefferson
was a demigod, the composite of C.esar, Cromwell
and Columbus. There is nothing in common between
the British and the Americans except language. And
language can be used for quarrelling as well as for
making love. The newspapers in the west and middle-
west States are not cordial. They don’t want to see
the Allies lose, yet they wish the British to lie hurt
or hamstrung. “Let Europe exhaust herself, and we
will secure the trade, the finance and the power.”
N’York is going to tie the financial centre of the
world, they hope and now expect. That is the senti-
ment underlying every editorial and every reference
to the war.
In the United States all the tribes, races and
nations of mankind are thrown into a huge furnace
to be melted into a new species or a new people. Can
it be done? Will they emerge a new nation? Has
this welding process succeeded in India or China, both
countries having characteristics identical with those
of the United States ? India and China are weak
externally because they cannot cohere internally. The
U.S.A. lies on the same plane as the old civilisations
in respect to domestic unity. After all, immensity
of figures in area, money and population do not
always signify national greatness. Spirit is essential,
the national spirit, and the United States lacks this
soul of a great people. That is why the people do
not look upon the war as a struggle for liberty and
are but feebly pro-Ally.
*
Dolls’ Eyes and Nationhood.
The business of toy-making has been taken
up to some extent in S. Australia since the
tin soldiers and the yellow monkey from Ger-
many were shut out, and Sydney Daily
Telegraph is amazed that this industry
should have developed from a remark
dropped by Langdon Bonython at the Adel-
aide School of Mines, and that nobody in
Australia should have thought of it before.
Why can’t these papers that fought so hard
to prevent the establishment of Australian
industries at least maintain a decent silence
when they have a plain demonstration of
the lunacy, of their old policy? Bonython
didn’t create the toy industry with a loose
word. It started in a small and precarious
way because for the moment the big Euro-
pean war had shut out the products of cheap
German labor and had produced an effect
such as might have been created by a proper
system of Protection many years ago. If the
new development is left unprotected it will
die as swiftly as it began. Indeed, it is feel-
ing ill already on account of new foreign
makers having come into the market. Our
baby industry does not depend on a word
from Bonython or a whoop from the Tele-
graph, but upon the exercise of horse-sense
by those who make our laws. Whether a
nation is Protectionist or not, if it recog-
nised the extent to which its future was
affected by the influences brought to bear on
the kid in his earliest years, it would, any-
how, prohibit the importation of foreign toys.
On the face of it, making dolls’ eyes doesn’t
seem much of an industry to boost; but if
the look of those dolls’ eyes is going to affect
the thinking of a generation of men and
women in ever so small a degree, it is worth
giving them an Australian glint. Even now,
with the war in full career, the Australian
kid is playing with things that give him a
wrong outlook on the world when he might
be finding the romance of his own continent
in every stuffed rag he drags by the tail.
♦ ■
In this country, during the last year for
which figures are available, the death-roll
of under-twelve-months infants was greater
than the toll of Australians taken by the
Turk and by disease in the whole Gallipoli
campaign. These are frightful figures. The
mother who nurses her own child is for-
tunately in the majority, or the horror would
be worse, deaths mostly occurring among
the bottle-fed. Wherefore it seems worth
while considering a suggestion put forward
by two Victorian scientists as long ago as
March, 1914, for the chemical treatment of
milk for human consumption. In a Mel-
bourne daily paper, printed during the
month mentioned, Dr. Richard Bull, in
charge of the bacteriological laboratory at
Melbourne University, was Quoted as having
spoken thus of a process for providing a
practically, germless milk, suitable for in-
fants and invalids and incapable of rapid
deterioration :—•
If milk treated by the process is exposed to
infection in open jugs it will keep sweet for days.
Harmful bacteria do not multiply in it. The process
does away with the necessity for cool storage, and
its general application would mean the entire
stamping out of milk-borne, epidemic, infectious
diseases.
'The sterilising ' process indicated was dis-
covered by Alfred Rutter, of Geelong, a
science master at the Gordon Technical
College. It still remains discovered; and,
after a lapse of more than two years, Dr.
Bull, head of the chief bacteriological
laboratory in Victoria, continues to be
favorably impressed by it. Under the
kindly eye of the various State Govern-
ments, butter-handlers are permitted, even
encouraged, to add a certain preserva-
tive to their product. Since the Rutter
process is said to consist of adding a
small quantity of harmless peroxide of a
metal to milk, without producing the slight-
est injurious action —which can’t be said of
boric acid in butter—it is at least reason-
able to ask that the several State Govern-
ments should now go further into the matter
of milk-preservation than they have yet
done, in view of the possibilities disclosed
by the device under notice. An infantile
death-roll of nearly 10,000 in one year is a
matter with which this country is even more
seriously concerned than the preservation
of a few hundred tons of butter.
*
The Inter-State Commission reports that the
Australian Dried Fruit Association is over-
doing things altogether. The evidence showed
that, the Assoc, supplies the Common-
wealth with 05 per cent, of tlie dried fruit
it. uses, that it fixes prices as it thinks fit
and has such a grip on the business, as far
as .production is concerned, that, even when
supplies are short, no merchant dare import
without its permission—‘and he doesn’t often
get it. Sworn evidence showed that the
average cost of production of iexias. currants
and raisins from 1007 to 1014 was £23 11s.
sd. per ton, or 24d. per lb., while the prices
charged to wholesalers, for lots of not less
than 10 tons, was from old. to Hid. per lb.
—a long way over 100 per cent, net profit.
Two of the Commissioners think that, though
the Ass. has done good work for the growers,
it is embarking on a mischievous policy and
should mend its ways; the third —chairman
I'iddington —recommends that the duty be
lowered from the present 3d. to lid. per 11).
But that is the last remedy that should be
tried. If the wages in an industry are too
high we don’t, at once open our gates to
colored labor to compete with the whites.
Why then should we, when we find the Aus-
tralian manufacturers or producers combin-
ing to put up rates, instantly fall back upon
the out-of-date method of bringing in the
cheap foreigner’s products?
•»
It is not possible to seriously argue with
those people who are using the colored-labor
bogey to frighten workers into voting against
conscription. They say that the Fat men-
like W. G. Spence, Givens, Guthrie and
Lynch— are plotting to bring in conscrip-
tion in order to excuse the wholesale impor-
tation of colored labor. Who is going to do
this thing? Even if he wanted to do it, the
Fat man couldn’t, because the law would not
let him. A thousand referendums on con-
scription will not alter the law relating to
the importation of colored labor any more
than it will alter the law relating to monog-
amy. Why, by the way, doesn’t some bright
anti-conscription liar start a no more absurd
scare that W. G. Spence, Givens, Guthrie,
Lynch, Lamond, John Earle, Crawford
Vaughan and the other Labor men are advo-
cating conscription because they want to
introduce polygamy to Australia?
[S. H. Prior, 214 George Street, Sydney.!
♦
From another Anzac in Egypt:—
In The Bulletin of June 1 I came across the
remark made by Mr. McCallum, of Maoriland, that
Australian soldiers here are not allowed to travel
in first-class railway carriages even if they pay first-
class fare. The Bulletin comments that this is
either a dangerous misstatement or “the limit” as
a fact.
The statement is quite correct.
Two troops of my regiment are stationed on the
edge of the desert, and we get leave • at the rate
of one man in every 50 every two weeks, which pans
out at the rate of 36 hours in 20 months.
Our leave is granted to Cairo, and after swelter-
ing here in the extreme heat for months, we are
not permitted to travel up to Cairo in a first-class
railway carriage, which means that we have to sit
and stew in a “dog box” for about two hours and a
half, with the thermometer usually well over 112
deg. in the shade.
Why should this be? If we were at home shirk-
ing our duty we could have a special train to cart
us about if we eared to pay for it; but because
we enlisted to fight for our own land we are made
to take back seats—and are not even permitted the
hack door of a decent hotel.
Our boys are all the time travelling up and down
the line from the different camps, and first-class car-
riages have always been barred to us.
Speaking about certain hotels being out of
bounds, I spent a week at Alexandria lately. On
arrival there our party was lined up and had a
little lecture given us. One of the things that
were impressed upon us was that we were not to
enter second-rate restaurants, drinking houses, etc.,
on account of inferior liquor, drugged beer, loose
women, etc. Well, what is a chap to do ? Having
put all the up-to-date houses out of bounds, do
they expect us to walk the streets all day? Are we
naughty school-boys ?
I have been in Egypt since Dee. 11, 1914, having
arrived with the first contingent, and, with the
exception of five months spent paying my respects
to Abdul at Anzac, I have been all the time here
in Egypt. What I say is therefore not mere
second-hand gossip.
“E.D.”: “Analyst” (B. 24/8/T6) speaks
the bitter truth about chemists in Australia.
They are starved. It is now close on 27
years since I left a University with a fairly
good knowledge of organic and inorganic
chemistry. It has got me a job as a garden-
variety of assayer, whose work is merely to
estimate metal values. My employers never
gave me the chance to help them out of the
beaten track, because introduction of scien-
tific methods to utilise by-products, etc.,
would have meant a little expenditure on
experimental plant or labor. Worse still, the
youth who swept my alleged laboratory
(nearly always a tin shed with a few rough
appliances) was almost invariably told to
watch carefully till he picked up enough
knowledge to assay the ore on that particular
property. Then he got my job at laborer’s
wages and launched himself as a full-blown
metallurgist. On a few occasions I obtained
a decent engagement to work out a method
of ore treatment on a newly-opened mine:
but as soon as the routine was established
and my services could legally be dispensed
with, some handy man who had picked up my
ideas got my position at a little over
laborer’s wages. My story would fit a very
large percentage of the chemists of the Com-
monwealth. Leaving out Broken Hill and
Lyell, where lias any attempt been made to
save even valuable by-products? How much
sulphur, arsenic, etc., is let go to waste at
Kalgoorlie, Cobar and other centres where
ore is roasted? As to chemists in industrial
concerns other than mines. I have been
pretty well all over Australia and met only
one or two. It would be difficult to estimate
how many thousands a year one man put into
a factory proprietor’s pockets; yet he received
only 00s. weekly. Once a benevolent capi-
talist asked me to look over his glue factory,
because he found that his final product began
to rot shortly after it was marketed. It took


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named. Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that tho continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&, King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Newman’s
I flf%A
WCIUVW
“Better
than Either’
A Worcester Sauce of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
An Australian Triumph.
Get a Bottle from the Grocer.
me about 20 minutes to discover the sources
of trouble and suggest inexpensive remedies.
Any well-trained chemist could have done the
same. The man had started his business in
a shed right up against a tannery, and,
besides, the temperature was too high during
nine months of the year. I advised housing
the work properly so as to exclude wattle-
bark dust from the tanyard, which was fatal
to good glue making, and the building of a
cool chamber. The ignoramus nearly wept
over handing me £5 for my help, which
meant all the difference between success and
failure. Before we parted he offered me 40s.
a week to supervise the concern. Australia
will never be able to compete with countries
that respect and reward the scientist until it
learns to do likewise.
♦
The Strength of German Weakness.
As the German has now posted himself at
Uncle Sam’s front door and started to
torpedo visiting merchantmen, it looks as if
Brother Wilson has reasonable justification
for producing a few additional Notes. The
incident, of course, hits Sam hard in the
freedom of the seas doctrine —and the pocket.
The first of these places may not be very
tender, but the dollar is a sensitive institu-
tion, and therefore it is not beyond the
bounds of possibility that. Wilson’s corres-
pondence will indicate an intention of becom-
ing quite angry if he is provoked. It may
be true, as some say, that the extension of
frightfulness indicates that the Hun is becom-
ing desperate and getting near the bottom of
his tucker bag. We heard the same thing
when it was mentioned the other day that
the German avus going to ask the U.S. to
start peace negotiations. But it is almost cer-
tain there is nothing in either yarn. If he
wanted peace, and wanted Wilson to inter-
cede for it, even mad William Avould hardly
start by pulling the intermediary’s nose.
No, the German isn’t beaten yet. HoAvever
desperately he may be put to it to hold his
own at different addresses, he has been able
to detach enough troops to punch Roumania,
heavily. It will be soon enough to believe
that our enemy is down when he can’t do
that sort of thing. The time for being
fortified by delusions on the subject passed
long ago. The cold facts are that the
Allies are gaining an ascendancy, but it is
not yet established, that the enemy is still
powerful and still not unhopeful, and that
victory will only come to us after long
trials. To believe anything else is to be
fooled. To imagine that there is time for
talk and rest is insanity. There can be no
victory unless the men are there to win it.
Merely leaving dead men on the field settles
nothing. What are Australians going to
do? Yell at Hughes or go on with the job?
Yelling at Hughes won’t hurt the German
any more than he was hurt by the little
man’s own tongue.
George Beeby, ex-Minister for Lands in
N. S. Wales, standing afar off as leader
of the Progressive Party in the making,
professes to doubt that the HoLMAN-ites
and WADE-ites will make any attempt to
coalesce Avithout an immediate election.
But George Beeby knows well that
an immediate election is what these par-
tisans Avant least of all; wherefore the first
steps toAvards an “understanding” have been
actually taken. The position of the Holman
bodyguard is obviously impossible, and they
knoAV it. To stand as Labor men opposed
by official Libs, and Labs, would mean dis-
aster ; and the Libs, ai'e obsessed by a
dread that an appeal to the ballot-box just
now might throAV an excessive number of
1.W.W.-dyed P.L.L. men into the Assembly.
To both lots, therefore, an extension of the
life of Parliament appears most expedient.
The obstacle is the Leg. Council. If the old
men insisted on flinging out the Bill pro-
longing Parliament there would be nothing
for it—the Assembly would have to go to
the country. And the old men probably
would, they liaAung been threatened. But
Avhat if cunning old Joe Carruthers took
a hand, and there were conversations and
negotiations ending in an “understanding”
that the Council would let the Assembly live
a bit longer provided the Council Avas
not attacked? It would seem a fairly
solid price for the community to pay for
the privilege of having its rights to vote
tampered with. But it Avould not appear
too heavy a price for the bewildered dodgers
of the popular wrath to pay for temporary
shelter. And they are ready to pay it.
Those able-bodied deadheads who were try-
ing to bullock through N. S. Wales Assembly
a project for granting life railway passes to
all persons who had sat in three Parlia-
ments may be taken as fair samples of their
kind. In every country there is a breed of
politician that can only be kept aAvay from
the public cashbox with a machine-gun. It
represents the survival of an instinct as old
as the Pyramids. It has been one of the
great facts of public life in Australia ever
since the days of the Rum Hospital. But
as members of Ma’s Assembly have been
getting “expenses” for the delivery of patri-
otic speeches, and the whole Assembly has
increased its salary, the question arises
whether it might not be a wise step to re-
move the possibility of members being in
future distracted by the impulse to get away
with additional perks. A Bill providing that
all citizens who manage to scramble into the
Legislature should ever afterwards be pro
vided with free suits, stationery, houses,
meat, grocery, vegetables, shaves, hair-cuts,
transport, theatre-tickets, tobacco, £l7 a
week and 82s. 6d. every Saturday to go to
the races ought to give reasonable excuse for
ceasing to squeak—at least, until the war is
over. If the other States and the Common-
wealth followed suit, and as Australia has
680 Parliamentarians, the cost would in
time be a mere trifle to a country with such
magnificent natural resources as this. The
existing charge of £720 a week for railway
passes for politicians in Australia suggests
a penuriousness that is almost contemptible.
“Hassan” : What is all this fuss about the
proposal to take the thumb-prints of the
men who are called up under the Defence
Act V Why should anybody object to put-
ting his thumb-print on paper and still be
willing to put his signature? I have some
knowledge of this method of identification,
and have seen it in operation in the Crimi-
nal Investigation Dept, of Victoria. As a
result I have nothing for it but admiration.
The trouble is, apparently, they take the
thumb-prints of criminals, and, therefore,
the system has a sort of gaol smell about it.
But, then, they feed prisoners, and none of
the objectors to thumb-prints carry their dis-
taste for gaol methods far enough to refuse
their meals. The objection is purely senti-
mental. I hold that, for purposes of identi-
fication, each child, when vaccinated, should
have his or her thumb print taken as well,
and that the adult population, upon receiv-
ing their right to vote, should have their
prints taken again. We would then hear
•very little more about unidentified bodies,
provided the body were
reasonably recent. And
the thumb-print on the
cash box would not be
useless any more because
the offender had not come
before the court previ-
ously. In many recent
cases of safe-breaking
the police in Vic. found
hand-prints and finger-
prints which they could
not identify, but always
the same prints. These
marks belonged to Jack-
son, the man Avho was
hanged last year for the
murder of Const. McGrath
in the Trades Hall. Had
the rule of one-man-one-
thumb-print prevailed
McGrath would be alive
to-day—and Jackson too.
Not that Jackson was
much use alive. But,
then, McGrath was. The
only man who could
reasonably object to hav-
ing his thumb-print taken
under a general regula-
tion would be the man who intended to go
crooked. And it might be to his advantage,
too, because the system might pull him up
before he got too crooked.
One of the silliest “arguments” against
conscription is that we haven’t got the men.
Well, if we haven’t got the men they will
not go, that’s all. Under the voluntary sys-
tem men go whether they can be spared or
not. There are soldiers now in the trenches
who, in the interests of this country and of
the Empire, should never have left these
shores. They were doing here valuable work
which simply stopped short when they went
away. Under the voluntary system nobody
inquired into that. These men saw that
reinforcements were badly needed; and
because others were not volunteering in suffi-
cient numbers, they went. Under a system
of universal service the man who can do his
best work for the country at home is kept at
home. Under the haphazard voluntary sys-
tem a necessary industry may be annihilated
through the exodus of men engaged on that
particular job. Our shortage of men is
merely an argument for making the fullest
use of those we have; and that means con-
scrintion and scientific selection.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
The fruit of the N. S. Wales baby clinics
is the reduction of the infantile death-rate in
Sydney. Melbourne has a natural advan-
tage in a climate which gives the milk
supply a sporting chance; yet its rate of
infant-mortality is 89.82 per thousand births,
while that of Sydney has dropped to 72.42.
At a time when the baby is more important
than ever, that per thousand advantage
is entered up in the ledger against the finan-
cial sins of the Holman Government.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “To-night’s the Night”
Royal “While the Billy Boils”
Criterion “Romance”
Palace “Happy-Go-Lucky O'Shea”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Red Dandies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Cinema Star”
Royal “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Princess’s “Fun with the Coachman,” & “In Mexico”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia, S. Kilda The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
A large, handsome, disordered show is
“The Cinema Star,” which came to Mel-
bourne Majesty’s on Saturday with the evi-
dent intention of staying there many weeks.
Sometimes the gaudy entertainment suggests
a mixture of all the musical comedies that
ever were, and occasionally it adopts the
revue method, but with a difference. It
changes its centre of gravity, or grotesque
absurdity, between the first two acts, and
the third act has no centre at all. It con-
sists chiefly of disjointed items, mostly
admirable in their way, one of them being
a quaint little chorus-ditty concerning a
rag baby that lies dreaming in its pram in
the street whilst mother goes to see a
picture-show. One remembers a lot of good
stuff in “The Cinema Star,” scattered
throughout an elusive story and assisted by
a rich variety of dresses and color schemes.
But the music carries no weight in one’s
recollections, nor does a thought of human
interest attach to any of the characters,
save the slangy girl (Minnie Love), whose
soul is in her dear little tummy. She was
open to feed luxuriously at the expense of
almost any johnnie that offered, but she
drew the line at the dirty-dog lord
“CARMEN,” AT SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
Cappelli as Don Jose. Scamuzzi as Escamillo.
who had played a malicious trick on
poor old Clutterbuck (Phil Smith), at
the instance of his awful wife (Millie
Engler), has been denouncing the immo-
rality of picture-shows; therefore a cinema
star-lady (Florence Young), posing as a
princess, lures him to a picture-factory
merely to fool him. But the dirty-dog lord
(Derek Hudson) gets the camera turned on
Clutterbuck by way of revenge for having
been jilted by his daughter (Ethel Cadman),
who prefers Reg Roberts, a film actor, with-
out having the least idea of her lover’s occu-
pation or business address. Thus it hap-
pens that when all the people get entangled
at the film-factory nobody has a key to the
mystery except the dirty dog aforesaid. The
piece is overloaded with complications and
has at least two superfluous characters,
drearily presented by Percy Clifton and P.
Wilson.
Leslie Holland, as stage-manager of the
film co., gets a poor job. His chief peculi-
arity is a stutter, and his passion for Flo-
rence Young has no humor in it. His
happiest effort is a “scena” in the third
act, concluding with a sort of apache dance
by Maggie Dickinson and his nimble self.
Florence Young gives a massive interpreta-
tion of the name-part, which has no musical
chances to speak of; but she shares a popu-
lar duet with Phil Smith and puts in some
good comedy work. Roberts, who has a
heavy touch for the sentimental frivolist,
gains no reflection of brightness from Ethel
Cadman, his tame and graceful betrothed.
Derek Hudson, as Lord Clarence, seems
incapable of even a conventional caricature
of an ignoble British aristocrat. Phil Smith,
as a frock-coated Josiah, is often droll with-
out being excruciatingly funny. Millie
Engler does very well as Mrs. Clutterbuck,
aud two saucy actresses are charmingly
played by Minnie Love and aj 7 ie /
There are not many lines for Nellje, bur
Minnie is much in evidence. Her sincerity
of manner is more marked than ever, and
her singing of a mushy song which has lost
its novelty is one of the hits of the show.
Personal magnetism is what counts in such
things, and Miss Love is as full ot mag-
netism as—as her leg is full of meat. Lut
the biggest hit is scored by Clyde Cook, the
fallabout dancer who happens promiscuously
in each act. Cook combines the agility of
Barry Lupino with the drollery of the late
Johnny Coleman, and serves _ as a special
advt. for this well-dressed affair.
“Carmen” was the Gonsalez singers’ best
performance in Sydney so far. Tenor
Cappelli, the Don Jose of ii good cast, sang
with more dramatic passion than is his
wont. He carried conviction and a curly
butcher's knife in the tragic last act, and
had the dishevelled, unshaven appearance
which (in grand opera) spells Murder. Miss
Russ was Carmen. Her voice is contralto
by courtesy rather than by the grace of
Providence. Hence, in the first act parti-
cularly, the music was often too loud to
permit all her devilment to pass the foot-
lights. Otherwise she scintillated with
fierce charm, and kept things humming till
the plot thickened with a sudden stab from
the maddened Jose. Baritone Scamuzzi, a
cyclonic Escamillo, tossed the Toreador lay
like a bull that had caught up to the red
rag. Little soprano Visoni missed the flute-
like delicacy which should distinguish
Micaela’s lyric remarks. Still, she sang tune-
fully and passed muster as the gentle
maiden. Cesaroni was six-feet-odd of in-
fatuated Capitano when Carmen smiled his
way. Both the orchestra and the chorus
knew their business, and the production was
sufficiently well mounted.
* * * *
In “Butterfly” the Gonsalez co. did its
worst. The first act on the first night went
to pieces. The orchestra mistook Puccini’s
beautiful music for a switchback railway.
It bumped its way—somehow—over hill and
dale. Mercifully there were no passengers.
The chorus had been flung out before the
curtain went up. Picking itself together—
presumably in the cellar of the theatre —it
sang horribly in any old key till it reached
the conductor’s line of vision. Vocally,
everyone was on the rocks. The principals
—tenor Lois (Pinkerton), soprano Gon-
salez (Butterfly), and the long undertakery-
looking ’Murkan Consul (Belloni) —were
tangled in the confusion. They were dull
and cold, and sang like spectators in a
performance that did not concern them.
Their improvement in subsequent acts was
only comparative. Suzuki Russ, with a
scowling brow, was merely another nail in
Butterfly’s coffin. The corpse receptacle
should be a glass case with a hatpin through
the body.
** * *
“Romance,” at the Sydney. Criterion, is
evidently a beautiful reality for the box-
office. It is only one more illustration of
the fact that the public will always pay to
see The Church embrace The Scarlet
Woman.
“Happy-Go-Lucky O’Shea” is making
trouble at the Palace (Sydney). “It’s all
right for Doone,” growls Frank Kenny, the
treasurer. “He’s only got to play the lead.
I’ve got to count the takings.” The Bul-
letin doesn’t want to butt into the argu-
ment, except to say that the hard yakker the
pair of them get through is trifling along-
side the exertions of the party that goes to
the show looking for unbooked seats.
E. J. Carroll and Beaumont Smith
remind the public that “While the Billy
Boils” isn’t going to camp for ever at Syd-
ney Royal and that they are due to roll
their joint and several swag at the end of a
short season.
“To-night’s the Night” waves its silk-
stockinged legs over the top edge of the
striped sofa at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
while the managerial ad. describes the pro-
ceeding as “a riotous success.” But the
orchestra is still allowed to escape while
the show runs to talk in the second half.
*!' v
They’ve altered the old child-rhyme to
Fizzery brandies, sugary candies —-
That sums up the Branseombe Dandies.
Same old address —Garden Theatre (Syd-
ney).
:J: * * :!:
The Follies got back to Sydney Tivoli on ■
Monday and started to work up an atmo-
sphere of hectic gaiety. The best feature
of the show is that it moves quickly without
encores. About one-third of the 22 items
could stand repetition ; the other two-thirds
couldn’t find a reasonable excuse for being
found on the premises even once. Vera
Pearce and Jack Cannot still lead the folly,
and John still itches to teach the audience
foolish songs. Thelma Raye has a couple of


r
&
bOORD & SON
J-J V tONDON. ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
m
.Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
icmwrt
/«■»*« VWOu
ianoHWjusKr
X»£ftisky de Luxe
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
RED STAR
cxM
The appreciable LIGHTNESS of the Khaki Drill in
the Peapes Patrol Coat ensures comfort. The
material washes well and is keenly sought by men in
the country because it does not soil so readily as
white.
Made in the style illustrated, buttoning to neck or
with open front.
Coats 18/6 Trousers 12/6
Riding Breeches 18/6
Riding Trousers 14/6
Ready to Wear. We Pay Postage.
Patterns on request.
Please state chest, waist, and inside-leg measurements.
Peapes &, Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 311 George Street, Sydney.
l
i
pretty numbers, and dancing Daisy and
Sydney Yates are graceful additions to the
bill. Walter Weems, George Welch and
Billy liego remain the black-and-white hopes
of this end of the Mclntosh entertainment.
A 1 Prince and Helen Deerie are a hard-work-
ing pair of vaudevillans who have quite a
lot to do, especially Al. Before the evening
is over one gets tired of Al’s patent splutter
and vurry, vurry tired of Al’s United
States accent.
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
The man who forgot (Torn Cannam) and
Jack Mitchell (Ward Lyons).
Sydney screenings this week: —
Hoyt’s : Olga Petrova in “The Scarlet Woman,” a
Metro film of the well-known novel; “Hypocrisy,”
Virginia Pearsen in an exposition of the shams of
society; and the usual news and humor features.
Lyceum: Bessie Barriscale in “Home,” a comedy-
drama concerning a family that had got rich too
quickly; “The Marriage of Molly 0.,” an Irish
drama featuring the family pig; and a honeymoon
tangle, “Wings and Wheels.”
Crystal Palace: Edna May, the original “Belle
of New York,” in the dual role of society girl and
Salvation lass, in “Salvation Joan,” a stirring
drama of the upper- and under-worlds of N’Yark.
At Melbourne King’s there will be yet
another week of “On Our Selection,” owing
to the good harvest. One or two nights last
week the old original Dad was oft' the job,
and Harford roared in his stead. Harford
knows the part and is quite at home in it,
but he isn’t as loud and vigorous and
broadly Dadful as the Bailey who created
its wealth of whiskers and irascibility.
“Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford” will be
revived at Melbourne Royal on Saturday
for the last three nights of the present
season. It is hard to say why it wasn’t
revived last Saturday, in place of the
widely-disrespected production which is
about to be withdrawn. Not many people
are flocking to “A Full House,” but Mel-
bourne has already formed a good opinion
of Hale Hamilton in the Wallingford part
and will be glad to see him again.
The Dandies are returning to Arcadia,
St. Ivilda, on Saturday. These are the
I’ink Dandies, by the way, but under any
other name they would be a welcome re-
minder that summer is nearly due and
balmy nights are expected.
Fuller’s Follies of Pleasure continue to
idle away the time in attenuated humor at
Melbourne Princess’s. Their two latest
burlesques differ somewhat in the extent of
their imbecility, but both are alike in their
quantities of Girl. Each spasm is pro-
fusely embellished at the South Pole with
legs, and at the North Pole with a dazzling-
icefield of woman.
The Royal Strollers unobtrusively occu-
pied the second part of the programme at
Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday, The Strol-
lers are now reduced to six, but their vocal
brilliance remains undimmed, and their gift
for burlesque is as fetching as ever. Chief
Stroller James again gets the public by the
ear with his ventriloquial patter and his
delicious travesties of Sara Allgood and a
Gonsalez opera singer in the throes of
vibrato. Also Gwen Lewis repeats her
songs at the piano; G. W. Desmond con-
tinues to exhibit his artless personality in
dance and ditty; and Madeline Rossiter’s
sweetest items are illustrated with glistening
teeth. Further, there are Connie Milne and
heavy-basso Geo. Graystone, who warble
freely and render diligent assistance in the
concerted business. In the first part the
hand-balancing feats of Degnon and Clifton
are an agreeable recollection and Haidee’s
Marionettes are a credit to their creator.
Billie de Rex and Gertrude Taft find some
fat in Amurkan cross-talk songs; Musical
Irving fails to conceal his limitations as a
left-handed ’cellist; and Svinoff, a dancing
violinist, from Russia presumably, is not
particularly impressive, though his hair
bristles with genius.
Hoyt’s turned on a three-feature pro-
gramme in Melbourne last Saturday. First
came “A Daughter of the Sea,” which fur-
nishes prolonged views of a new star who
struggles to rejoice in the name of Muriel
Ostriche. Followed “A Woman’s Honor,”
with Lottie Collins’s sprightly daughter
Jose dominating the foreground. The final
film was “The Masked Rider,” a moon-
shiny nightmare ending in love’s young
dream. Harold Lockwood and May Allison,
who figure prominently in the disturbance,
twinkle in the Metro, firmament.
Of another Melbourne art show: —
The Australian Art Association is having its annual
spread of canvas at the Athenaeum. The Sydney man,
Nonnan Carter, scores heavily with “A Low-Toned
Harmony,” a study of a lady in plum-colored rai-
ment who is in pictorial sympathy with her sombre
background. This cannot be said of Percy Leason’s
impression of Madge Fabian as the heroine in
“Romance.” If the picture is an attempt to wed
Art to the Stage, the color behind Miss Fabian would
be ground for a divorce. Leason is more successful
in “Grey Day” and “Saplings at Ivanhoe,” which are
full of outdoor charm. The French school, whereof
Aman Jean is a typical example, is possibly impli-
cated in the production of J. R. Jackson’s attractive
“Shade,” but there is enough in it to show that
Jackson’s own talent was a powerful accomplice.
Miss Sweatman, whose genius cannot be fully ex-
pressed in less than a dozen frames, exhibits a
“Turquoise Afternoon,” which is so enchanting that
Edward Officer’s Normandy evening near by has turned
green with envy. The feature of A. Colquhoun’s col-
lection is the impressively-painted silk gown of “My
Lady,” which makes the human contents look quite
immaterial. Leslie Wilkie hangs two or three in-
teresting portraits and records the domestic details
of two well-lit interiors. Several yards of carefully
depicted but water-logged scenery bear the signature
of Miss Cumbrae Stewart, while the same artist con-
“THE FOLLIES
OF PLEASURE ,”
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
The Wealthy
Hebrew.
scripts another bunch of lovely maidens to maintain
her vogue as a pastel artist. Max Meldrum, who has
found Life a mass of unhealthy color-tones, adver-
tises his discovery with singular effect in portraits
of an old lady and a small flaxen-haired nipper. In
its raw energy and almost affected unfinish the latter
is a lour de force. A huge “Grey Day,” by Fred
McCubbin, is covered with as much ease as 20 square
feet of “Autumn Afternoon” from the original brush
of son Louis. W. B. Mclnnes’s wholesome, open-air
talent is displayed with confidence in “Drifting
Olouds,” and the clever water-colorist, A. MeClin-
tock, again lies in ambush for the unwary with
several of his delightful color surprises. Previous
suspicions about Harry B. Harrison’s industry are con-
firmed by the appearance of 14 fresh canvases com-
posed of vigorous but unimaginative studio work. R.
Newbury baedekers Eltham’s beauties as if it were a
duty, and Clewin Harcourt’s art is almost forbidding
in “The Gipsy” and “Souvenir de Belgique.”
The Adelaide Orchestra, under Wiusloe
Hall, lias given a high-grade concert, includ-
ing some Tschaikowsky new to this city.
State-school children had the Exhibition
crammed two nights for their “thousand
voices” concerts, and showed a strong sense
of humor and dramatic effect in some of
their concerted work. West’s have the
elaborate and sometimes thrilling invasion
and destruction of New York by an enemy
army not too closely identified; the Pav.
shows Chaplin in a long acrobatic tipsy-
turn, and Wondergraph patrons are quite
happy with Marguerite Clark and Hazel
Sweet in the same programme. The Royal,
too, is still at pictures, of the Fox brand —
a good sea-drama at present. At the Exhi-
bition is a Naval and Military display, with
sideshows, while melodrama at the Tivoli,
variety at the Majestic, and “Ideals” at
the Queen’s are much as before.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Sr” : Many years back at a Labor func-
tion where the limelight was all upon the
stage-hands’ union, W. M. Hughes related
how he, as a scene-shifter, had engineered
a strike. “We went to the manager solid
to a man,” said Billiam, “and told him that
if our wages were not increased the show
would be counted out that night. We got
the money.” “Ah,” interjected George
Musgrove, who was present, “you were the
little nuisance who caused that trouble,
were you? I was the manager.”
American comedy and drama is not to be
thought of apart from modern inventions.
The Yankee playwriter lives on ’em. Deprive
him of the telephone, the electric-light
switch, the speaking-tube and the gramo-
phone, and he is stumped for situations and
plot. In such comedies as “A Full House”
nearly every one of the characters flutters
around the telephone-receiver like a moth
around a candle. Quite a lot of the talk
consists of “Give me so-and-so,” “Are you
there?” and other orthodox phrases. In
Yankee drama-scenes there is no table
without a telephone-receiver. It is always
the leading article of furniture in the room.
How could the loud police-inspector get
along without it? Or the city merchant
with the amiable waster son? Or the in-
dispensable “crooks”? The typewriter, too,
is almost an essential. In fact, in “Seven
Keys to Baldpate” the audience was sup-
posed to imagine that 75 per cent, of the
story had been told on a typewriter which
was heard clicking off stage.
“Masetto”: It was the Montague-Turner
Co. that first gave the delightful "Mignon”
in Australia —in 1882. Annis Montague was
a rather bulky Mignon, but the music was
superbly rendered. After Turner came
Josephine Deakin —the Sydney girl who
married Jack Scantlebury—as Filina,
Venosta as Frederic, and Gainor as
Lotario. The opera had a rest for 18 years
and then Musgrove put it on with Mrs.
Slapoffski, Cecilie Lorraine, Salvi and
Charles Tilbury. This was at the Princess’s,
Melbourne. Then it went to sleep for
another 16 years. Strange that so melodious
a work should have been heard so seldom !
“C. Ockney”: Undoubtedly when review-
ing “The Geisha,” as she is spoke nowadays,
the critic will find it hard to elucidate the
mystery of its vogue a score of years ago
(B. 28/9/’l6). But that could be said of
most 20-year-old plays. Consider for a
moment, though, the cast of its original Lon-
don production at Daly’s, including Marie
Tempest. Haydn Coffin. Rutland Barrington,
Huntley Wright and Letty Lind. Such a
crowd—each a star performer with a big
following—could ensure a run for a much
inferior piece. Added to that the produc-
tion was one of the most sumptuous that
even George Edwardes, then at his zenith,
ever put his name to. And that was 20
years ago! How many of the products'in
the same line that we sample now o’ nights
will live that long?
“THE FOLLIES OF PLEASURE” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
The Main Plot of the Show.
Melbourne Princess’s has parted company
with its oldest and well-beloved identity,
Aleck Carroll. Pressmen and actors, more
than other habitues of the theatre, will miss
him. He was the tall, dark, melancholy
young man, in a lovely black velvety hat,
who was much in evidence during George
Marlow’s regime, and seemed specially
appropriate to the vestibules when Shak-
speare or Italian opera was on hand. For
the first 20 years or more of the theatre’s
existence Aleck Carroll was stage door-
keeper. He guarded the entrance for all
the successive managements, beginning with
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove. When
George Willoughby and Marlow came along
he began to emerge from the seclusion of
the side passage and figure in a more public-
capacity. He was treasurer, press-agent or
what not in recent Marlow times. But when
Fuller took over the show there was no
position for Carroll. One of his treasured
possessions is a big square stick of mur-
derous design, inscribed with the names of
scores of actors whom he at one time
or other thought deserving of sudden death.
The long list of names on this guiltless
weapon testifies to his artistic discrimina-
tion.
“T. 0.1.” : Apropos Verdun (B. 5/10/’l6).
The scene of Douglas Jerrold’s “The Pris-
oner of War” is laid in Verdun. I saw it
played in G. V. Brooke’s time at the old
Royal in Melbourne. In the cast were Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Heir, J. C. Lambert, Glad-
stone, “Arrowsmith” Ryan and others of the
old regime. Mrs. Gladstone and Mrs. Ryan,
who were connected with the company at
the time —long over half a century ago —
are still living, I believe.
Ben Griffiths, for years mechanist with
the Williamson, Garner and Musgrove part-
nership. is dead. Scene, Auckland (M.L.) ;
time, last week.
“Elsternwiek”: In the Adam Lindsay
Gordon film there is a rapid change of
trousers and boots by the talented hero. He
is in riding-breeches and top-boots when he
calls to his chums to pull him in the win-
dow. But when he arrives through the win-
dow he is in long trousers strapped under
his boots. Is this why we are not allowed
to see him going up the wall?
The war is taking toll of old theatrical
families whose names are well remembered
in Australia. Sergeant J. N. Burnett, a son
of Jennie Lee, the world-famed Jo, was re-
cently killed in action in France. And the
only son of the late Teddy Lonnen, a
lieutenant in the Flying Corps, was killed in
England by an accident to the aeroplane he
was piloting.
“Snell” : I was seated at a picture show
the other night well up in front in a spacious
establishment originally designed to hold
agricultural shows, I should imagine. There
were several other occupants of this part of
the house, dumped at wide intervals in the
dusk. Immediately opposite me was an obese
gentleman who had prayed a moment into
his hat after sitting down, obviously under a
delusion that he was somehow, somewhere,
for some inexplicable reason in a church. The
pictures moved, and suddenly at an exciting-
crisis in the heroine’s life the obese gentle-
man sneezed with great violence. At the
same moment the picture went out. The
obese gent arose in the darkness. “Ladies
and gentlemen,” he said, “I am sure I beg
your pardon.”
(Continued on page 26.)
Prendergast moved the adjournment of
the Vic. Assembly the other day for the pur-
pose of talking about the Railway Depart-
ment’s habit of giving preference to foreign
goods. It appeared that Yankee typewriters
had been recently purchased, though British
machines of the same character and quality
were cheaper. It was not therefore a ques-
tion of economy; and if it wasn’t that it was
a case of either cussedness or plain dishon-
esty. Peacock was shocked and surprised
at the revelations (how do these little things
leak out?), and promised the fullest inquiry.
What he neglected to promise was the sack ;
yet that is the one obvious way to meet
such disobedience, especially when there is
a bad smell attached to it.
The case of John Yerran v. Germans, in
the South Aus. Assembly, has ended in a
non-suit, mainly on account of the difficulty
of proving the identity of defendants. That
is to say. S.A., though disliking “Germans”
heartily, does not feel able to include among
them its own native-born who have enlisted
in great numbers, and has even a doubt
about throwing road-metal at the old man
who thought Prussia a good place to get
away from half a century back and has been
an apparently good Australian ever since.
Yerran’s motion was to disfranchise people of
enemy birth ; but, according to one speaker,
one such citizen has sent six sons to the
war, and where are you to draw the line?
Premier Vaughan supported the Bill, but
said that others on his side could do as they
pleased, and a mixed non-party division
threw it out by 21 to 11.
The one-day stop-work called for Wednes-
day of last week was a pup that turned and
bit the hand that fed it. In Sydney numer-
ous union officials, evidently believing that
the strike order did not apply to them,
attended at the Trades Hall to put in a
day’s work, and found the place closed. The
caretakers and cleaners, on the principle that
solidarity begins at home', unanimously re-
fused to open up the building. So secre-
taries and others, while they stood about in
the deluge on the off-chance that someone
with the keys might roll up, had time to
commiserate with unionists whose meetings
were blocked, and reflect on the beauties of
the general strike even when it is not
general.
PEACE OVERTURES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A poor Hun playing on a blood-stained fiddle
Begs the world’s charity along the street;
A sword is girded on his swollen middle
And murdered innocents lie at his feet.
But hands that were so prompt on hilt and trigger
Can only make the fiddle rasp and whine;
His airs of peace he fumbles with a snigger
Till we detect the old “Watch on the Rhine.”
“Get out of this!” all shout in sudden heat.
He goes—and leaves a blood-track up the street.
N.S.W.
BLOOD AND FIREMAN.


%
“ORIENT” PYJAMAS
7/6 SUIT.
These Pyjamas are “Made by David Jones’’ from specially-imported
Ceylonette—a material of soft texture —comfortable and durable in
wear. Behind every suit stands David Jones’ name as a guarantee
of Quality, Workmanship and Sound Value.
lii bold stripe effects of Grey, Pink, Blue or Helio.
Fitted with collar and pocket as illustrated.
Sizes: 34in. to 44in. chest measurement.
Per suit 7/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished anti Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most, of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“H. 0.”: When night arrived it didn’t im-
prove things for a party of Billjims who had
lost their way. Egypt is a big place to be
lost in, and they seemed to have less chance of
striking the camp than had the late Diogenes
of locating an honest bloke, for the eminent
Dago at least had a lantern in his hand and
a forlorn hope in his soul. Sometimes they
made a half-hearted attempt to sing, but
mostly they just blanked. After wandering
for a couple of hours most of them forgot
even to blank. Suddenly, when, for all they
knew to the contrary, the camp might have
been 27 miles away, a challenge came: “Who
goes there?” A private Billjim did not wait
for his officer to answer, but supplied the
information himself: “Burke and blanky
Wills!”
* * * *
“Koot” : During Melbourne’s recent rainy
spell, when the sky had been as grey as tripe
and as wet as a drowned hen for days, a
dark-skinned alien mounted a Glenferrie car.
The conductor, though a returned soldier,
searched his ethnographic recollections in
vain to decide the traveller’s nationality.
“Bill,” he said to the gripman, “wot do you
make o’ the dark bloke —Abdul or Levantine
or Gippy?” “Parsee,” said the gripman,
after a glance. “Wot are they?” “Sun-
worshippers—blokes that say their prayers
to the sun every morning and evening.”
“Blime!” was the conductor’s comment, as
he eyed the streaming skies, “he must have
come over here for a holiday.”
* * * *
The Law did the sensible thing in Laun-
ceston (Tas.) the other day when a case of
bigamy was before Justice Crisp. At 17
Henry Alfred Dyke married Mildred Sarah
Alderson, who was some years older than
he and the mother of two children. Very
soon he had reason to doubt his Mildred ; so
he left her, and she went to N. S. Wales
with a man named Grant. After eight years
she wrote to him, and they exchanged letters
mutually relinquishing all claim, and giving
one another permission to marry again. On
the strength of this, in January last Dyke
did marry again, and so put himself in front
of the legal steam-roller. On the prisoner’s
counsel making an appeal for leniency, Jus-
tice Crisp ordered the police to communi-
cate with the man’s second wife, who wired
back begging for his discharge. Dyke was
then sentenced to six months’ imprisonment,
but ’sLlonor suspended the sentence on the
prisoner entering into a bond of £5O to be of
good behavior for 12 months.
Why not make an exchange of letters
like this the basis of a dissolution with-
out expense and fuss? Divorce Courts
are simply obsessed with the horror
of collusion. But it would be far
better to have frank instead of the
covert collusion there is 19 times out of 20.
The absurd manner in which courts shy
when the thing is mentioned results in seri-
ous hardship. A man, as thoroughly sick and
tired of his wife as she is of him, has miscon-
ducted himself, and there is an infant. The
wife, not knowing this, has to grope around
for evidence. She spends scores of pounds
of the man’s money in getting evidence which
would be entirely unnecessary if the man
were not too terrified by this bogey of collu-
sion to send the othei; party a copy of the
birth certificate. Probably it is because the
thing thus leads to the waste of thousands
of pounds every year in Costs that the Law
preserves it.
THE WILFUL MISUNDERSTANDER.
HE: “At last. Miss Jones, I have the
chance which I have long looked for.
And now — oh, if I only had the courage
to”
SHE: “Yes, I understand. But if you once
enlisted I think you would find you
are not a coward, after all.”
EASIER FOR THE OFFICER.
OFFICER: “Do you not know you must stand two paces away when you salute?”
PRIVATE: “ Orright, sir, you, ( hic ), you oblige me shtep back tioo paces.”
“Sister Sue”: He was very young and
very self-satisfied. One evening my sister-
chum had just finished making him comfort-
able for the night, and before going off duty
asked: “Is there anything I can do for you
before I leave?” Dear little Two Stars
replied in a patronising voice: “Well,
yes! I should like very much to be kissed
good-niglit.” Sister rustled to the door.
“Just wait till I call the orderly,” she said.
“He does all the rough work here.”
“Karee”: That much-talked-of
automatic rifle of Fritz’s has
proved a fiasco. It’s a lovely
weapon, but the least speck of
dirt strafes it, and in Flanders
mud is mud. Yet scrapping
here knocks “Gallip” silly. A rest
camp anywhere in France is a rest
camp—unless it’s in a town with a
Staff, when fatigue soon makes
one sigh for the Front. Billets
range from grass paddocks to lively
straw, mudholes, barns, ratty
rooms, rickety walls and the pala-
tial luxury of real beds and sheets,
ye gods! Hospitality varies from
Arctic to Australian, according to
the Flemish, Belgian, Walloon or
ET-ench national tendencies of our
hosts. Those of them who are
cockies use the dog as a working
encyclopaedia. He watches sheep
by day and houses by night; en-
closed in a wheel, by walking tread-
mill style he turns the separator,
sewing machine, bellows or chaff-
cutter. He also drags a cart and
enjoys racing with his kind—or
fighting with them—in either pro-
cess upsetting the lares et penates
of his boss with cheerful uncon-
cern. The breed is a cross between
a Dane and a St. Bernard, with a
dash of George Ileid’s hound. He
acts, too, as Red Cross, police and
machine-gun draught, and will
bark at Bodies for a pastime and
get bayoneted by the unmusical
Hun for his pains. Another queer
outfit is the three-wheeled cart and
dray, the horse attached thereto being
guided by one rein, as if it were a camel.
Thank the Lord there are some cheerful
persons left. One of them was introduced
to a magistrate at Inverkegville (M.L.) a
day or two ago as a man who kept liquor
for sale. “No, no,” he explained in defence;
“such liquor as I obtain I drink myself.”
The Beak then looked at Exhibit A. It con-
sisted of one 27-gallon cask of beer, two
empty demijohns, one ditto not so empty,
one bottle of whisky, four bottles of beer,
29 empty rum bottles and nine empty absin-
the bottles (absinthe makes the jag last
longer). Counsel for the defence assured
the Court that his client’s story was the
gorstruth—that for beer his client had a
thirst that raged unceasingly. The cold-
blooded satrap convicted; but he didn’t
know the thirst of “dry” Inverkegville as
well as The Bulletin does.
CATTERY.
MRS. BRAGG : “I gave quite a nice little
luncheon the other day — didn’t she tell
you?”
MRS. SLY: “No!”
MRS. BRAGG: “ Strange! Why, she teas one
of my guests.”
Mrs. Sly: “Yes, she told me that.”
THE FLAPPER’S WAR ALPHABET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A stands for Andrews. The very first day
He went to the depfft and melted away.
B stands for Bunner. Poor Bunner, you see,
Went off with Andrews because he was “B.”
C stands for Caudle. For war cock-a-whoop,
He brought up the rear of the very first group.
(And poor Araminta who loved them all three
Fell into the arms of her true lover D.)
D stands for Doormatte —the faithful, the free.
He kissed her and fled when they hollered for D
E stands for Egan, the next on the list;
He passed her to F and was gone like a mist.
F stands for Fowler who loved her a minute;
A kiss —then a cab driving off with him in it.
(And poor Araminta, as proud as could be,
Sobbed “God Save the King’’ and rang up her
best G.)
G stands for Gordon, the best of the bunch ;
She kissed him four times and he took her to
lunch.
II stands for Hook, who ate with her when G
Went off in a hurry. (Hot bugles for three!)
I stands for Isles who proposed at the gate.
She said it was sudden. He said it was late.
(And dear Araminta, so simple and sweet,
Stared long at the dust that he raised with his
feet.)
■I stands for Jones —the elect for a day.
She thought he was “sweet” ere he cantered away.
K stands for Kino, the well-meaning swell
Who warned her against wicked J and gay L.
L stands for Lumley who hated poor J
And pitied the tailors who waited on K.
(And poor Araminta, all powder and scent,
Hoped they wouldn’t talk if they shared the same
tent.)
M stands for Martin. She never could see
Much good in poor M till he put on khaki.
.V stands for Noonan—six-feet in his shoes —
An obvious hero to one who took “twos.”
0 stands for Otway. She said, of all men,
She’d ask him to see that no harm came to N.
(And young Araminta with sobs fairly shook
And shed scalding tears in the telephone book.)
P stands for Parman, who said “I love you! ”
Before he’d proposed she was waiting for Q.
Q stands for Quigley who paused in mid-flight.
He called out “How are you?” She said “I’m,
all right!”
It stands for Rayney, all brightness and fun,
Who promised to write ere he fled for his gun.
(And sad Araminta in lovely distress
Despatched a fond “Urgent” to No. 1 S.)
S stands for Stryper. She sat on his knee
Till someone cried “Run!” Then he gave her to T.
7 stands for Trotter with no time to lose;
He asked her to wed and he heard her refuse.
U stands for Unley whose ring at the bell
Spoilt poor Trotter’s chances and made him say
“Hell!”
(Said poor Araminta, whose heart was so large,
“If I saw the Kaiser I’d give him in charge!”)
V stands for Vivian, the actor who said,
“Now swear, Little Woman, if you hear I’m
dead”
W stands for Weston, who came in and marred
V’s beautiful speech in her father’s backyard.
.Y stands for —X ! (Araminta had no
Recollection of that being pinned to a beau.)
Y stands for Youlden. She clung to him so,
For he was the very last Gentile to go.
Z stands for Zimmerman. Judah! what bliss!
He gave her some “di’monts” and took her last
kiss.
(And poor Araminta —tears blinding the view—
Threw a last airy kiss at the heels of a Jew.
The system has got a wide, obvious flaw
When they send the long alphabet off to the war ;
Thus the flapper who’s got enough sense in ha-
head
Will choose for her first love a very rich Z.)
x.s.w.
KODAK.


when you buy
SHIRTS, get
them made to order —
BECAUSE, in the first place, they
need cost you no more. Secondly,
you get the benefit of the choice
of material and pattern. Thirdly,
the comfort is one hundred, per cent,
more and you get your own ideas incor-
porated in the making.
SHIRTS FOR TOWN OR COUNTRY MADE TO
SPECIAL MEASURES.
SEND FOR FREE PATTERNS TO-DAY.
You incur no obligation whatever.
m
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
TOOWOOMBA.
BRISBANE.
TOWNSVILLE,
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d'hote luncheon
il la carte luncheon, from
Table d’hote dinner
Dining-room Open to Non-residents
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
2/6
1/6
3/6
“St. Jimmy” : In the Gallipoli days, when
many brave Anzacs died in the military hos-
pitals from sickness, a British med. in
charge of one remarked to an eminent Aus-
tralian doctor that he couldn’t understand
the poor powers of resistance that Aus-
tralians showed to typhoid. One-third of
them succumbed, a far higher proportion
than with the Tommies. Our man was
astounded and opined that there must be
something the matter with the figures, as he
knew from wide experience that Australians
had wonderful recuperative powers. A junior
med. near by did not infringe military eti-
quette by putting in his oar, but he got the
visitor’s ear before he left, and this is what
he said: “The figures are all right; but the
cause of the high mortality amongst your
men is that they stick it out in the trenches
until they are nearly dead.”
* * * *
A domestic squabble the racket of which
shook a whole square was investigated in
Port Melbourne the other day. There were
cross summonses, and both complainants
had black eyes and other relics of the fray.
It turned out that the fight arose out of a
disputation as to which had the more sunny
disposition.
* * * *
“Vagabond”: Some papers recently pub-
lished, as an antidote to swelled-head and a
premature notion that the war was about
finished when Contalmaison was taken, a
map of the whole Western Front, with the
ground covered by the Franco-British ad-
vance marked in black. The black—well, it
was a spot, and no more, in comparison with
the whole. But there’s more in that black
spot than meets the map-reader’s eye.
I’ve recently been over the ground it
represents, and I tell you it counts. The
black spot doesn’t show the maze and net-
work and labyrinths of trenches and dugouts
and “keeps” and underground forts that
criss-cross the captured ground. I’ve been in
practically every push since we settled
down to trench warfare, and have seen all
the ground taken in these shows; but I’ve
never had the huge pleasure of seeing what
I’ve seen here—of standing on a bit of a hill
and looking round a good wide sweep of miles
of hills and valleys and woods, and knowing
that a month ago all the ground I could see
AFTER, THE SMASH.
“Did you ever see such a wreck! He’s gone
all to pieces since lie’s been married.”
“I’m not surprised—we thought he was
cracked when he made the engagement.”
was in German hands, and that now it is
ours. I tell you a look of that sort does
one’s heart good. The black map-spot is one
of the strongest patches in the German
defences. It was crammed with trench sys-
tems, with innumerable miles of barbed wire,
with ranks of machine-guns and mortars,
stacks of bombs and grenades, was covered
with the fire of a tremendous artillery. The
taking of that little map-spot means (what
we here have always believed) that, given
plenty of guns, plenty of shells and plenty
of men, we can take any blanky place in the
German lines. Let us have the guns and
munitions and men—don’t forget the men ;
we’ll need to spend a lot more on the job, and
need a constant stream of reinforcements—
and we’ll go on giving the map-makers plenty
of black spots to paint in on their maps.
MONEY TALKS.
SUCCESSFUL PUNTER: “A coup, my boy, a coup! O’ course I had to lay off a bit to
nothing, for money talks —money talks.”
BROKE DITTO: “Yes, I suppose mine’s saying, ‘Well, that last fool and I were soon
parted.’”
“F.N.T.”: It is claimed for the Talbot
Milk Institute, which is the only Melbourne
concern making any serious attempt to
reduce the infantile death-rate by providing
a guaranteed milk-
supply to necessitous
parents, that it
saves 200 baby lives
a year. The annual
bill comes to a trifle
over £5 per head,
which pays for
nurses and other
labor, icechests and
ice, plant and depre-
ciation. Yet Chief
Sec. Donald McLeod
reckons the cost too
great! The Talbot
Institute is generally-
regarded as a State-
aided charity; but
the management has
each year to go on
all fours to the Gov-
ernment for its
State aid; and the
Liberal idea of State
aid in Victoria
seems to be to kill the necessary citizen' kid
and save the unnecessary political goat.
Jack Sommers, from ’Ome :
I am enduring all the horrors of an English Sun-
day—one of the worst experiences possible. Give
me the chance between a large-sized fight and an
English Sabbath, and my address is the battle.
Just now a nice young man is singing “Out on
the Deep”—l wish he were—and I feel like a
swimmer in a sea of treacle. Far off, like a beer
in a thirsty land, looms the day of my release.
English teas ! High teas with vast inedible areas,
Achi Babas of rainbow jelly, Gibraltars of “kike” and
mountains of buns. Tommies, sword-swallowers to a
man, fall in with that “irresistible dash” so charac-
teristic of “our gallant men.” The citadels of kike
collapse and crumble. The jellies melt, the buns
vanish, knives flash to peril of jugular veins, and
high tea is over. Large, life-like curates beam on
the shambles. Then, gorged to apathy, with
insides like post-impressionist dreams, the company
reclines in the chairs that ease the waist most,
while there is turned on that which, next to the
English picture, gives the Hun the “kultur” belt —-the
English ballad. “Thank you!” murmurs the kike-
distended semi-circle, while I long to swat ’em hard
along their first line of embonpoints.
Recently, in desperation, I arose and demanded a
“recital” from the local organist. With the aid of
a bov soprano and a pretty French-American, con-
tralto we managed Lemaire, Bach, Gounod —“not
too ba-ahd,” as we say. But I came bumping
back to earth when they asked me to pick the
hymns! I passed the honor on. I felt too weak.
Exile in the rose-bowered home of Stodge becomes
worse. Gimme a gun and let me get back to work.
Meanwhile there is a naice short service at 7 p.m.,
prayers for victory, and a sermon apropos of nothing.
Good naight and to bed at 8 p.m. So with leaden
feet the days drag by.
Pray for us poor Australians when we leave the
trenches.
“Hamer”: Re Dr. Maitland’s statement
before the N. S. Wales Venereal Diseases
Commission that a girl contracted syphilis
by drinking from a cup in a Sydney
restaurant. I know of a man, badly affected,
who was employed as a cook in one of the
most popular restaurants in the same city.
He knew that he ought to leave his job, but
explained that he couldn’t afford to do so.
In fact, he said it would be dashed incon-
venient ; also it would be a gross interfer-
ence with the liberty of the subject to drag
him away. I suppose he was right. Any-
way, he was right if the anti-eompulsionists
are.
* * * *
“Alirimanes”: You can print this story,
but you had better not illustrate it. In a
Melbourne recruiting depbt a youth faced
the doctor arrayed in nought but his truss.
“How long have you been wearing that
thing?” asked the M.O.
“Two years,” said the can-
didate. He was outed.
Reaching the street he met
a pal, sicklied o’er with the
pale cast of thought, to
whom he told his experience.
“My word 1” said he. “Lend
us y’ truss, Bill.” Bill did,
and the quitter put it on
before he faced the doctor,
who. to his amazement and
disgust, passed him through.-
“But didjer notice this
truss?” he stammered. “How
long have you been wearing
it?” the doctor inquired.
“Eighteen months,” was
the hopeful liar’s answer.
“That’s all right,” said the doctor ; “a man
that can wear a truss upside down for 18
months is quite fit for active service.”
* * * *
“Boyd Cable” sends a eheer-o:
We here at the Front have for so long taken it as
a foregone conclusion that we’re going to win that
it jars when anybody asks, “How are things shaping?
Are we going to come out on top?” I’d feel a bit
ashamed to be writing to Australia to remark that
we are going to win, but actually in the last week
or two I’ve heard from Down-Under asking the same
old cold-feet question in one form or another. So
let me expound.
Personally I’ve never owned a ha’porth of doubt
about our ultimate win. I’ll admit that back in
1914 I might easily have admitted the possi-
bility of the French being driven down into the bot-
tom corner of France, of the Channel ports being in
Hun hands, and of the Contemptible Little Army
(that’s a title we’re mighty proud of nowadays—
what’s left of us) being completely blotted out.
But that and worse would not have meant the knock-
out for us. It would only have meant the more
rounds to fight, the longer time to stall off the
punches and get our wind back and wade in to
square the deal. Now we’ve seen the back of those
bad old days. We’re done —thanks be! —with try-
ing to hang oh to a long weak line with dog-tired
worn-out men, with no reinforcements, with few
guns and a desperate shortage of shells and machine
guns and other modern accessories. We’re done with
keeping men in water-logged trenches for 10 or 20
days on a stretch, taking them out to “rest” and
having to hurry them up into the line again before
they’d had time for one night’s decent kip. We’re
done with —but being so, we ll let bygones be and
pass on to the present pleasanter picture.
Up to this year the Allies have had to dance
to the Hun’s piping. In the first two years the
East, the South and the West had to stand by in
turn and watch the Germ concentrate men and guns
on whichever Front he chose and hammer the stuffing
out of it. When the Russki was getting warmed up
we on the West had to stand fast because we hadn’t
men or munitions to barge in with. When Servia
was getting slaughtered we had to look on for the
same reason, while Russia was thankful to stop run-
ning and try to collect her strength again. The
Germans and Austrians hitherto could afford to
weaken any side they liked in order to strengthen
the other, knowing that their weak side was still
strong enough to hold off any attempted attack.
But now, now, my brethren, the boot is on the
other leg, and already it begins to pinch the Hun-
nish toe. Russia never lacked for men (she put up
multitudes “armed” with clubs, and had empty-
handed regiments waiting to receive the rifles
collected from casualties during the Galician
walloping) ; now she has the men trained and
armed and equipped. We at first had nothing except
ships and money, and they alone are not enough to
beat an army. Now we have an army of millions,
equipped better than the best, with heavy and light
artillery already equal to the German and rapidly
out-distancing it, ammunition, shells and cartridges
and bombs and grenades and aerial torpedoes almost
without limit. Now we have gas and all the in-
genious devilries of Fritz improved upon and added
to. We have an air service that in this offensive up
to now holds the whip hand.
Germany has spent her strength against Russia,
against Verdun, against Ypres, all in vain. She
could never break through, weak and all as we were.
Now we begin the Big Squeeze: Russia pushing in on
the East, scooping prisoners by tens of thousands;
the Franco-British push eating in and in to the West
and taking “impregnable” positions slowly but
surely; the Serbs and Salonika force crouching on
the South ready to spring at the first chance; Italy,
goaded by the crazy Austrian attack, re-taking the
country lost in that rush and keeping quite a re-
spectable force engaged. Jutland scuppered the Ger-
man hope of naval victory. The Turk is getting it
in the neck in Asia and Egypt. We have begun the
war! Up to now it was the other fellow who was
making war, and we were dodging the licks. Now
we’re beginning to get our own back.
Win ? We’re winning; and before this reaches
you we’ll have another good few points tallied up to
our credit.
SO TACTLESS.
H E: “And Miss Oldgirl’s discharged her
groom, I hear?”
SHE: “Yes, the stupid—he boasted that he
had grown grey in her service!”
LIP SALVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a little, shy romance,
For I was wed, and she was, too.
She kissed me at McKibbon’s dance,
And now how bitterly I rue!
Her lip salve of our harmless fun
Upon my cheek left scarlet tips.
The ill that finger-prints have won
For evildoers has been done
For me by that imprint of lips!
VICTORIA.
S.S.


-me.
A^GU^eAIT
OLrTsipe.
t\ers are Two ''
Conscientious objectors settling
Hie possession o. j- "ttre lasT
exemption form.
Patriotic Old : 5o yer often be called u|? !
beW while other blokes b Rightin' f e r
C'vjil Ration •
/\ftTsT : "Fellow , 1 represenT "the civilisation ftie 5
are *or."
Collapse oj. 'foe Identification
Marks ' OeplT on arrixja.l of tke
tattooed tnar?.
™ £ Au
IH £
S'
pallet
Suggested
Medical £xo mi nation.
■OvN.
Wn£M K\rrTj qreex
Exarnih«t : *Sf>ell out -fogt
Second line
Bloke: "Y-E-f? C'O'W ! ']
. Examiner : " Passed ! " j !
3WFFS.
"1W injured
knee.,
\/ 4te
Corfvfen lefjf - '
dea|ne^
Exemption forms
here
Office*"; (“to Unwashed Indivii’civalJ
Ab - ev/er used Soa)? ? ‘
u.i. 'y* :
Qf|i cer • * Well - *l ry a little
voaifcr witti iT."
THE LEGIONS OF THE PUSHED.


SHALL AUSTRALIA DO IT?


Chaving
(2)TICK
L6V6R
For an
Ideal Shave
A
n
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
HR»
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
\*Oaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROU
I rWIS&WtiITTY MAKERS
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO.. SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
JIMMY ALLEN, Maoriland Minister for
Defence.
W. M. Fleming, one of the 13 poets of the
Federal Parliament, and perhaps the best of
the clutch, enlisted last week.
Defence-Minister Allen, who is acting as
Premier in Maoriland while Massey holds up
the Empire in London, is a solemn person
who will never be GO any more. He has been
in the Reps, since ’B7, and has worked like
a beaver on statistics all the time. Allen’s
politics give The Bulletin a pain, but
there is one thing about him that compels
admiration, and that is, though he is a man
HEAVEN UP-TO-DATE.
Owing to the enormous increase in business
the imperative necessities of the Records
Department demand a sky-scraper.
who inherited riches, he has never let his
cash turn him into a loafer. As a youngster
he took the Bessemer Medal at the Royal
School of Mines (Eng.), and on coming to
manhood he commenced taking an active
interest in public affairs. As most youths
who acquire large wealth are content with a
medal for ping-pong, and thereafter take
about as much interest in national affairs
as a jumbuck, the exceptions are worth
taking notice of. But the deeficulty Jimmy
Allen has in getting a laugh out of himself
is a terrible handicap.
The Victorian State Service Federation
(in view of trouble ahead, perhaps) has
.selected Gordon jDarter, of the
Survey Dept., as its general
secretary. Carter is a young-
old campaigner who has energy
for three and tact for half a
dozen ; and a lot of people in
the cricket and theatrical world,
as well as in politics and “the
service,” will wish him good luck.
Melbourne Uni. is to have the first lady
professor in Australia. Dr. Georgina Sweet,
I).Sc., a graduate of the Melbourne “shop,”
now of Brisbane, is to fill the chair of biology
while Baldwin Spencer is visiting John Bull.
She will also have a seat on the Professorial
Board.
J. K. Davis, at present captain of a tran-
sport, will probably switch off on to the job
of taking the Aurora down to the Ross Sea
this summer to pick up what is left of the
10 explorers whom the vessel left down there
when she had to cut for Maoriland. Davis
knows those parts w r ell, for he was
with Shackleton in 1909, and then com-
manded the Aurora when she worked with
Mawson’s expedition. The other day the
G.-G. handed Davis an Antarctic medal for
the way he handled the uncomfortable old
ship for Mawson.
Westralia’s latest V.C., Private Martin
O’Meara, is a big, brawny Hibernian, who
prior to enlisting was on a farrum in the
Pinjarra. lie was hugely powerful, and
those who had seen him at bis work were
not surprised to Jearn that lie was able to
return from No Man’s Land with a wounded
mate under each arm.
Died in Adelaide, Charles Moore, who had
just built there easily the largest. and most
elaborate shop in the State, including a mar-
ble staircase which everybody in S. Aus. is
supposed to talk about.
Moore was one of eight
young North of Ire-
land men who reached
South Aus. 30 years
ago. They all knew
something about the
drapery trade, and all
got small jobs in good
Adelaide houses. To-
day half a dozen of
them are at the heads
of big businesses.
Moore was perhaps tin l
richest. Broken Hill
helped him ; then he
built a big place at
Perth, later a bigger
one at Prahran, and he
had only just solemnly
and publicly dedicated
the new palace in Adel-
aide to the Almighty
when heart disease
stopped his rush to
millionairedom. II e
ought to have been in
Sydney, too; and he
never thought of his
chance without mourn-
in g his want of
courage. He com-
missioned another
member of the little
North-of-Ireland col-
ony,. visiting Sydney,
to get hold of any-
thing good; and the
friend got hold of the
old auction mart
where Mrs. McCa-
thie’sj, Ltd., is .now,
at a price that in
these days looks as
cheap as tuppence;
but Moore was afraid,
and turned it down.
The friend in that
case, by the way, was
George Lucas, whose
brother Edward, an-
other of the colony,
was the only one of
the lot to go into pub-
lic life at all. He has
been a S. Aus. M.L.C. for years.
Killed in France, H. W. Miller, who until
war-time was a prominent Kalgoorlie labor
leader. He was just then president of the
miners’ union and was busy struggling with
the W.A. Chamber of Mines; but he imme-
diately dropped the scrap for the more far-
reaching argument with the Hun. At Gal-
lipoli he soon gained a lieutenancy, was
wounded, returned to duty and promoted to
captain, and as such stopped his fatal bullet
the other day.
Henniker Heaton, whose “Life” has been
written by his daughter and just published
in London, was not ungrateful. lie got his
easy chair through marrying one of the
Sydney Evening News Bennett girls; and
as soon as he started on his career as a
postal reformer he thought of his mother-in-
law, and wrung from the Postmaster-General
authority to send her as one word instead of
three. It was his first triumph.
MATTHEWS, M.H.R.
Killed in France young Carment, son of
J. B. Ronald, the only parson who has sat
in the Federal Parliament. The lad was one
of three sons, all of whom are on active ser-
vice. Ronald, sen., is now a navy chaplain.
So far as this paper knows, the native
chiefs of Papua have but one representative
at the Front; and he has been in enougn
scrimmages to score six wounds three in
Gallipoli, two in Egypt and one m
France, from which he has been invalided
to a hospital in Lincoln. Private Sam
Wilson is a Euro-Papuan : his. father was
John Newcombe Wilson, an Irishman ; Ins
mother Arabutha, daughter of the Chief ot
Bin, Tagula, Papua.
Gilbert Murray, the brilliant Australian
scholar who professes Greek for Oxford
University, has been winning the applause
of cultured New Yorkers by lecturing at a
summer school and “throwing the air ot
Athens over it”- —to quote an admiring press-
notice. There isn’t a speck' of. dust in
Murray’s Greek, and his Euripides and
Sophocles are not rigid mummies with
cracked lips, but striding Athenians with
dew on their sandals.
Herbert Clark Hoover, the Californian
mining engineer who was formerly with
Bewick, Moreing and Co. in Australia, has
done wonderful work in organising and
managing the American Commission which
feeds and clothes starving Belgians in Flan-
ders. The total amount collected from all
parts of the world, supplemented by a sub-
sidy from the Belgian Government, has been
£20,000,000. So skilfully has this been
managed that £40,000,000 worth of food,
clothing and other necessaries has been pro-
vided. There are 2770 local committees
superintending the work of distribution of
goods, and 12,000 babies are fed daily in
Brussels alone. Dur-
ing the first year of its
existence, the Com-
mission distributed
4,000,000 garments,
and every destitute
mother got a parcel of
clothes to last the first
12 months of her
baby’s life. Hoover
had to obtain the
assurance of the Hun
autliori ties
that they
would not ap-
propriate these
supplies, and
that they
would not re-
move from Belgium
the food raised there
by the people. The
work of the Commis-
sion makes an amaz-
ing story of efficient
management, and to
the very capable H. C.
Hoover, the brains of
the movement, is due
99 per cent, of the
credit.
BARRISTER LOWE,
of the Victorian Bar.
Anglican gaiters attending the General
Synod in Sydney :
Archbishops of Sydney (Wright, born 1861 in Lan-
cashire, bishing since 1909) ; Melbourne (Clarke,
1850, Westmoreland, 1902) ; Brisbane (Donaldson,
1863, London, 1904).
Bishops of Adelaide (Thomas, 1869, Hackney, Eng.,
1906) ; Bathurst (Long, 1875, Carisbrook, Vic.,
1911) ; Bendigo (Langley, 1830, Ballyduff, Ireland,
1907) ; Bunbury (Goldsmith, 1853, London, 1904) ;
Carpentaria (Newton, 1866, Vic., 1915) ; Gippsland
(Pain, 1841, Bedfordshire, 1902) ; Goulburn (Rad-
ford, 1869, Mansfield, Eng., 1915) ; Grafton (Druitt,
1874, Manchester, 1911) ; North Queensland (Feet-
ham, 1873, Penrhos, Wales, 1913) ; North-west Aus-
tralia (Trower, 1860, Brighton, Eng., 1901 —first at
Nyasaland, Central Africa, and since 1910 at
Broome) ; Riverina (Anderson, 1859, Devonshire,
1895) ; Rockhampton (Hajford, 1865, London, 1909) ;
Tasmania (Stephen, 1860, Geelong, Vic., 1914) : Wan-
garatta (Armstrong, 1857, Dublin, 1902) ; Willochra
(White, 1859, Rondebosch, S’Africa, 1900).
Absentees: Archbishop of Perth (Riley, 1854, Bir-
mingham, Eng., 1894), away in Europe as Anglican
chaplain-general of the A.I.F. ; Bishop of Newcastle
(Stretch, 1855, Geelong, Vic., 1895), ill; Ivalgoorlie
(Golding-Bird, 1874, London, 1914) and New
Guinea (Sharp, 1865, Cheshire, 1910), attending to
their jobs.
Ballarat’s imported gaiters (Gumbleton,
1872, Jamaica, W. 1.) and Armidale’s elect
(Wentworth-Sheilds, 1868, London) are not
yet consecrated, so cannot sit in Synod ; and
Brisbane’s coadjutor (H. L. Le Fanu, IS7O,
Ireland, 1915) and retired Bishops Stone-
Wigg (New Guinea) and Wilson (Mela-
nesia) have no voice. Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth—the five lucra-
tive and comfortable billets —went to im-
ported clerics; and to balance the ledger
Bishop Sharp was also imported to New
Guinea, the -worst-paid job of the 24. The
rest (barring Ballarat’s choice, who has not
yet arrived) are either Australian-born or
served an apprenticeship in this country.
AS THE TROOP WENT THROUGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I heard this day, as I may no more,
The world’s heart throb at my workshop door.
The sun was keen, and the day was still;
The township drowsed in a haze of heat.
A stir far off on the sleepy hill,
The measured beat of their buoyant feet,
And the lilt and thrum
Of a little drum,
The song they sang in a cadence low,
The piping note of a piccolo.
The township woke, and the doors flew wide;
The women trotted their boys beside.
Across the bridge on a single heel
The soldiers came in a golden glow,
With throb of song and the chink of steel,
The gallant crow of the piccolo.
Good and brown they were,
And their arms swung bare.
Their fine young faces revived in me
A boyhood’s vision of chivalry.
The lean, hard regiment tramping down,
Bushies, miners and boys from town.
From mid the watchers the road along
One fell in line with the khaki men.
He took the stride, and he caught their song;
And Steve went then, and Meneer, and Ben,
Long Dave McCree,
And the Weavers three,
All whisked away by the “Come! Come! Come!”
The lusty surge of the vaunting drum.
I swore a prayer for each soldier lad.
He was the son that I might have had;
The tall, bold boy who was never mine,
All brave with dust that the eyes laughed through,
His shoulders square, and his chin in line,
Was marching too with the gallant few.
Passed the muffled beat
Of their swanking feet,
The swell of drum, the exulting crow,
The wild-bird note of the piccolo.
They dipped away in the listless trees;
A mother wept on her bended knees
For sons gone out to the long war's end,
But more than mother or man wept I
Who had no son in the world to send.
The hour lagged by, and drifting high
Came the fitful hum
Of the little drum,
And faint, but still with an ardent flow,
The pibroch call of the piccolo !
VICTORIA.
BOB THE COBBLER.


m
1]
[2l
[3]
[4]
m
"N-
-s£v
&M.
ÜBS
m
Hats
of Distinctive
Character.
['HE man who dresses in good
taste and with a true sense
of refinement pays as much
attention to the style and char-
acter of his hat as any other
article of Clothing he wears.
And in these first early days of Spring and
Summer Sunshine, the whole community of
well-dressed men will mark this —an appropriate
and timely suggestion.
A study of the Hat he wears will point the need
of a purchase TO-DAY, to many a man who prides
himself on a nice distinction in matters of dress.
Inspection is invited of our attractive and greatly
varied showing of Spring Styles in Headwear,
with the same unbounded confidence as we submit
for your judgment the four popular Models illus-
trated here, and detailed in the list below.
No. I.—Felt Hat, Semi-Lounge Shape, 2\ inch
cut edge brim, self or contrast band. Stocked
in shades of Grey, Light and Dark Slate, If) /Z
No. 2. —Felt Hat, smartly curled, 2J inch brim,
cut edge. Available in mixture shades of
Grey, Brown and Slate, with self or 1 C/z:
contrast band X«J/U
No. 3. —Felt Hat, with smartly set 2| inch
brim, with trimmed edge. Choice offers of
Slate, Grey, and Brown Shades, 1f) /A 1 O //t
with 2i inch contrast band .... X^/O
No. 4. —English Velour Felt Hat, 2| inch brim,
cut edge, extra grade silk band, Fawn, OC/
Slate, and Brown Shades are in stock
CARRIAGE IS PATD ON ALL
COUNTRY ORDERS
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE
SYDNEY
NEW BRANCH SHOP at 304 George Street (Near Hunter St.)


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON —3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:—
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of: —-
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
There is much discussion in England and
the U.S.A. concerning the after-effect of
the war upon capital; and an American
banker’s address on “Business after the
War” has been widely circulated. It is a
rosy forecast, the chief conclusion being as
follows: —
In discussing the indebtedness the fact is com-
monly overlooked that the payment of indebtedness
does not extinguish the capital transferred or involve
an economic loss. If we were to conceive of these
payments as required to be somehow made to the
inhabitants of another planet, with whom no other
intercourse was possible, or of the products of the
country to the value of these payments as regularly
heaped up and burned, then we would have the idea
that is generally accepted as to the burden of this
indebtedness. But nothing of this kind will occur.
The capital raised by taxation will flow from the
public into the Treasury, and from the Treasury
back to the people, practically undiminished... .If
this view is correct, recovery from the war will be
more rapid than has been anticipated, and there is
no reason why, after order and confidence are
restored, enterprise and industry should not go on
in these countries about as before.
It is quite true that, when we borrow locally,
the money we borrow will be repaid locally,
and that it and the interest will go back
into circulation. But when we borrow out-
side this country the money will have to be
paid back, in the shape of goods, outside the
country. In theory, at any rate, the money
borrowed for public works earns its own
interest. The money borrowed for war does
not. It is quite true that this money
is not destroyed. It is put into military
clothes, guns, etc., and the people who sup-
ply clothes, guns, etc., circulate it. But the
things they supply in return are not interest
earning. The State therefore has to make
up the whole of the interest out of taxation.
Instead of thinking of a State think of an
individual. Here is Ezekiel Webday, mil-
lionaire. He borrows a million and puts it
into farms and farming implements. Now
you have to watch tiro streams. The mil-
lion he borrows and spends is passed to
other people who use it to produce more
things. And with the things he buys Ezekiel
also produces things and goes on producing
them. But if instead of putting the million
into farms and implements he put it into
cannon, there would be only one stream to
follow. The million which he borrowed
would be passed to other people who would
use it in production ; but the cannon which
Ezekiel would buy would produce nothing,
yet the debt would call for just as much in-
terest as if it did produce something.
That’s what the American banker has over-
looked —the fact that every ordinary busi-
ness transaction sets going two streams of
production, while a war transaction sets
going only one. And that is why his fore-
cast is too rosy altogether.
* * * *
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia (Sydney), which began with
£4039 of its capital eaten up by flotation
expenses:—
Towards
June, Profit.* Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. - £4039
1913.. £3425 Nil £3425 614
Further preliminary exes., £247. . 861
Reserves.
1914.. 1898 Nil 1898 1037
1915.. 4188 Nil 41SS 5225
1916.. 6932 8 p.c. =£3076 3856 9081
*Subject to remarks hereunder.
Twelve months ago this paper said that
when the reserves amounted to 40 p.c. of
the premiums it would be a reasonable thing
to give the shareholders a bite; and though
reserves are not quite 40 p.c. they are so
close up that some distribution at any rate
was justified, more especially as the tvhole
of the preliminary exes, account has been
written off, and there is no such thing as a
business extension account. The Bulletin
is always disposed to make allowances for
the little fellow among insurance cos. But
the figures of this co. suggest that it is
possible to make too many allowances—
that it isn’t necessary for an insurance co.
to have half its capital represented by paper
at the end of three or four years of vigorous
business-getting. After providing fully for
unexpired risks, this co. has 90 p.c. of its
capital intact; and at the present rate of
progress the other .10 p.c. will soon be
replaced from the profits of the business —
provided, of course, the directors are content
with the present reasonable S' p.c. dividend.
The co. may now be said to have arrived
at a stage at which its expense and loss
rates can be fairly stated : one can’t do it
iu the very earliest years of a co. Here are
the figures:—
Net Ex- Expense Loss
Premiums, penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1915. . £25,520 £13,303 £9,636 52.1 p.c. 37. S p.c.
1916.. 32,303 14,981 12,292 46.4 p.c. 38.1 p.c.
The expense rate is still higher than it
should be later on; but the co. will have
rare good fortune if its loss rate keeps so
moderate. Not many cos. have done as well
this year, out of their Sydney risks at any
rate. As for the rest, the only doubt this
paper entertains is with regard to the
investment irr mortgages (£18,853). They
may be all right; but it is exceedingly
doubtful whether for a young insurance co.
it isn’t worth more to be able to point to
liquid assets than to get a doubtful 1 or
ltj p.c. extra from mortgages. But, however
they keep their funds, the directors ought
to realise that the. rapid increase of business,
while something to give three cheers about,
throws upon them the obligation to increase
either capital or reserves. It is generally
reckoned a fair thing when an office has
funds equal to 11 times its annual pre-
miums. This co. has, including the reserves
to cover unexpired risks, just under 11 times
the premiums: and this current year, if the
premiums rise another £6OOO, it ought to
have another £9OOO in capital or reserves.
The co. has got an extraordinarily fine busi-
ness for the outlay ; and it is its duty now
to build solidly by keeping a tight rein on
the dividends.
* * * #
The Millaquin Sugar Co. (Brisbane) :
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1912. . £55,892 6 p.c. = £30,000 £25,892 £25,892
1913.. 30,394 5 „„ 25,000 5,394 31,286
1914.. 72,441 8 „„ 40,000 32,441 63,727
1915.. 47,401 8 „„ 40,000 7,401 71,128
1916.. 45,844 8 „„ 40,000 5,844 76,972
The position with regard to this industry
is wonderfully and fearfully mixed. The
State Government, financed by the Common-
wealth, took over all sugar in Queensland,
and the refineries carry on their job at fixed
rates. The price paid by the Government
for sugar is £lB per ton. The State Gov-
ernment recently asked the Commonwealth
Government to increase its backing; but
that was refused. Meantime—and it was
really this that led to the request for further
help—the wages in the industry had
been overhauled by Judge Dickson, of the
State Industrial Court, who put them up
about 40 p.c. Ever since this award was
made hundreds of men have been idle, the
growers and millers declaring that they
simply cannot pay the rates unless they
can get more for the product; and, as before
pointed out, the one buyer of the product
in Australia is the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, which will not budge. The Bulletin
is not prepared to offer an opinion on the
merits of the case. On the one hand it
knows that employers in this sugar business
have cried “Wolf!” a good many times; on
the other, it knows that judges have come
to wild conclusions before to-day. For the
present it merely quotes the chairman of
this co. —A. J. Carter, M.L.C. —who pre-
sumably tells his shareholders what he
honestly believes they may expect:—
Our profits for the year were derived from the
refinery, raw sugar mills, plantations and the Bunda-
berg Distilling Co. Ltd., etc., and profits made on
stocks on hand when prices were increased last year
(the latter will, of course, not occur again), and
consequently we are enabled to pay the usual divi-
dend ; but in view of the recent wages award (known
as the “Dickson!’ award) we could not continue the
payment of dividends at the old rate unless the
award is modified or the price of raw sugar is in-
creased, as the extra cost in wages in the raw sugar
mills and plantations brought about by the award
referred to amounts to about 50 p.c. on existing
rates. If this is persisted in without increasing the
price of raw sugar proportionately to meet the in-
creased cost, it will be impossible to carry on the
industry on reasonable commercial lines,' and the
position will become serious ; but it is hoped that
reason and common-sense will prevail.
The Q. N. Bank held and worked the
Millaquin and Yengarrie estates for many
years, and then formed this co., in 50,000
shares of £lO each, apparently with the
idea of realising in fractions what it had
been unable* to sell as a whole. A dividend
averaging a shade over 7 p.c. has been paid,
and £76,972 of surplus profit, is shown;
but £40,000 of the latter is at the credit
of a Depreciation and Renewal Fund, and
therefore may not be genuine profit. But
even if it isn’t, the history so far has been
quite cheerful. Take another view:—
1912. 1915. 1916;
Assets other than fixed
assets and plant ..£165,473 £173,725 £221,025
Liabilities . . .. 36,160 24,875 93,341
Surplus ..£129,313 £148,850 £127,684
So the assets other than fixed assets
(refinery, mills and farms) and plant are
approximately what they were four years
ago. But meantime the co. has bought
various plantations and improved others;
and over £65.000 has been added to the value
of this asset. Practically, therefore, you
get this result: the co., besides paying its
dividend and making various small addi-
tions in other directions, has earned enough
to spend about £65,000 in buying planta-
tions and improving old ones.
The Newcastle and Hunter River
Steamship Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
I 10ns ( £1,831 6 p.c. = £3OOO 1 _ £11,245
June, 1908 , Written off, £2ooo } _
Dec., 1908.. 3,271 6 p.c. = 3000 £2(l
June, 1909.. 2,829 6 „„ 3000
Dec., 1909.. 3,323 6 „„ 3000 323 IM6B
June, 1910.. 2,798 6 „„ 3000 11-466
Dec., 1910.. 4,441 6 „„ 3000 1,441 12,907
June, 1911.. 2,718 6 „„ 3000 12.6-5
Dec., 1911.. 3.119 6 „„ 3000 119 12,744
June, 1912.. 5,690 7 „„ 3500 2,190 14,934
Dec., 1912.. 3,279 7 „ „ 3500 / 13
Dec. 1913.. 10,027 7 „„ 7000 3,027 17,740
June 1914.. 4,741 7 „ „ 3500 1,241 18,981
Dec ’ 1914 8,012 7 „ „ 3500 4,512 23,493
June 1915:: 6 527 7 ”” 3500 3,027 26,520
Dec.,’ 1915.. 8,406 9 „„ 4500 3,906 30,426
June, 1916.. 20,047 9 „„ 4500 15,547 45,973
The extraordinary profit for the past half-
year is made up in this way: Unexplained
addition to insurance fund, £12,500; ditto
repairs fund, £1000; ditto, equalisation ot
dividend fund, £2000; ditto, contingency
account, £5B: profit as per P. and L.
account, £4480. Probably this explains it:
The Raruah, employed on the Port Stephens trade,
has been sold to the Commonwealth Government.
It has been hitherto shown here that the
co.’s policy is to write vessels down very
liberally ; and it looks as though the Ivaruah
stood at under £5OOO in the books and
realised probably three or four times that
amount. The result is shown hereunder: —
June, June, Dee., June,
1911. 1915. 1915. 1916.
Ship property . . £66,750 £40,313 £43,990 £38,490
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,732 1,157 1,157 1,077
Plant, etc. . . 4,746 2,629 2,294 3,100
Liquid assets . . 48,156 96,523 100,724 121,785
So while, nominally, the co. has only £5500
less ship property (including shrinkage of
value through the half-year’s depreciation),
it has £21,061 more cash than it had six
months ago. How much of this is due to
ordinary and how much to extraordinary
transactions it is impossible to decide. In
fact, how much is really profit at all this
paper wouldn’t like to have to say. If the
co. has to get another ship at once it may
have to pay just as much as it got, or per-
haps more; in which case there wouldn’t be
any profit in the transaction at all. And if
the co. doesn’t get another ship at once, bow
much business and profit is it going to lose?
You must know that, too, before you can
say that all the money got over and above
book value is profit. And that’s why the
assessment of Higgs’s war profits is going
to be so extremely difficult a matter—•
especially if you try to do it by a few fixed
rules.
#■ * * *
Southland Farmers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd. (Invercargill, M.L.) :
Bonus Writ-
to Pur- ten Re-
Profits. Dividends, chasers. Off. serves.
1906. .£1506 5 p.c. = £423 £292 £125 £1,709
1907.. 1694 54 „,, 641 415 150 2,197
1908.. 554 6 „ „ 842 214 1,695
Loss.
1909.. 263 Nil 100 1,332
Deficit.
1910.. 6127 Nil 4,795
(Pref. Shares.)
1911.. 344 6 p.c. = 196 5,335
1912.. 3412 '6 „ „ 157 96 9,000
1913.. 5568 Nil 842 15,410
Written off, £4960 .. 20,370
1914.. 1596 Nil 21,966
Profit. (Pref. Shares.)
1915.. 3519 6 p.c. = 1382 400 20,229
1916.. 3269 6 „ „ 508 17,468
This co. appears to have definitely forsaken
its old ways; and the new management
naturally doesn’t want to have the sins of
its predecessors counted against it. Hence
power lias been sought from shareholders
to “pay off or cancel capital which has been
lost or is unrepresented by available assets.”
Present capital is £30,319 in ordinaries and
£8491 in 6 p.c. prefs.; and there won’t be
much left when the dead wood is cut off.
Not enough, considering the co.’s liabilities.
Here are figures on the latter and other
points:—
1913. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital . . . . £31,174 £37,624 £38,723 £38,810
Liabilities.. .. 64,327 46,588 53,647 68.385
Property, plant, etc. 22,512 20,621 20,099 19,878
Stock 23,658 16,385 21,184 28,435
Sundry debtors . . 36,624 24,998 28,923 36,708
Other assets .. 311 241 197 209
The co. ought to have more than £21,000
of share capital on those figures. The
alternative to getting in more is for the
ordinaries to be content to go without divs.
for five or six years or so and build up
reserves. But if that is the intention the
writing-off of capital is a mistake; for it
will simply mean presently that, in order
to give a decent return on shareholders’
funds, the dividend will have to be at a
rate so high that it will be liable to cause
trouble of one sort and another. Time
comes, no doubt, when dead capital ought
to be written off. But experience shows
that it is well to make quite sure it is dead,
and not he in too much hurry about it.
•* * * *
The Co-operative Box Co. of N. S.
Wales, which began with a deficit of £331,
representing formation exes.: —
Written Towards De-
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
1910.. £331
1911.. £2 -- £156 489
1912.. 199 1154 1842
Profit.
1913.. 2471 1507 £964 878
Reserves.
1914.. 4989 - 2389 2600 1722
1915.. 9853 5 p.c. = £837 1278 7738 9460
1916.. 1462 Nil 1370 92 9552
The co. hasn’t any aversion to dividends,
and there is no reason why it shouldn’t
aim at giving its shareholders anything up
to 10 p.c.; but it realises that its chief
object in life is to provide the co-operating
butter factories, etc., with cheap cases.
Before the Coastal Farmers had hatched
this co. butter-boxes had climbed steadily
from Is. Id. to 3s. Sd. The arrival of the
co-operative co. was followed by the reduc-
tion of prices to Is. sd. and Is. 4d. (in
stocks). For a while this co. was charging
a trifle more than that. Then, during the
past year, its quotations were dropped l?d.,
while “all other box cos. have raised their
prices,” the directors allege. So, though
there is no dividend, the co. may fairly
claim to have done its job. And no doubt
it would have paid a dividend into the
bargain if the co.’s M.L. timber supplies
hadn’t failed at a critical time through the
freight contractors being tempted to sell the
vessel they had in this trade. The manage-
ment reckons it lost £2500 through that;
and it has hopes of getting half that much
and letting the talk about breach of
tract drop. The capital of the co. is £18.763,;
and in ordinary circumstances it would be
just about enough. This year the book
debts (mostly amounts due by co-operating
factories) run to a quite unusual £17,428:
and, as all the co.’s own funds are in
premises, plant and stock, this has meant
an O.D. and other debts totalling £21,738.
It shouldn’t be necessary to point out. to
co-operating cos. what the moral of that is.
* * * *
The Btjkit Kubu Rubber Estates, Ltd.
(Melbourne) :■ —■ *
Charged to Develop - De-
. Tune, Loss. Dividends, rnent Account. ficit.
1910.. £2272 £365
1911.. £266 3785 631
Profit.
1012.. 236 3332 395
Reserves.
1913.. 821 3738 426
1914.. 695 2984 1121
Premiums on new shares, £2lO . . 1331
1915.. 1145 —• 1996 2476
1916.. 7775 lOp.c. =£3ooo 1388 7251
On present appearances this is just about
the most solid of all the rubber propositions
in which Australians fluked their money a
few years ago, Usually the tropical estate
one hears of has about 10,000 acres of
jungle and 200 acres of doubtful planta-
tion; and in a good many cases the jungle
beats the plantation, and the latter shrinks
instead of growing. This Bukit Kubu
estate is frankly only 653 acres in total
area, and apparently the present cultivated
area of 567 acres, is neatly all it is capable
of. Of this lot 420 acres ate now of
tapping age; and 340 acres were actually
tapped iast yeah, the average yield being
3001 b. pet ache —reckoned good considering
the age of the trees. No doubt a lot depends
upon how a tree is tapped ; but these people
claim that they don’t bleed the poor vege-
table to death. The crop has grown this
way : —•
1911.. 2,6501 b. 1914.. 30,9101 b.
1912.. 8,7901 b. 1915.. 50,1301'u
1913.. 17,4501 b. 1916.. 103,0001 b.
This current year the manager expects
160,0001 b. ; and that apparently will be from
the whole area less 17 acres. Still there
will be 130 acres of first-year trees in that
lot. Costs have been got down below Is.;
and with a further probable reduction in
the cost of weeding, the total should not be
pushed beyond that figure, notwithstanding
that freights are high and living dearer even
for the Chinese and Tamil coolie, Present
price of rubber is somewhere about 2s. 4d.;
and if that is approximately maintained
there looks to be £BOOO or more profit in
sight this year. And that is 27 p.c. on the
very moderate capital of £30,000. There
won’t be that to distribute, for there is
some capital expenditure ahead; but pro-
vided the co. can dodge hurricanes, plant-
diseases (not a very serious matter) and
a further slump in rubber (and a slump
looks less and less probable), shareholders
seem to have a sweet thing.
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine, Vic.) :
Added
Net Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904.. £6250 10 p.c. =£sooo £1250 £11,631
1905.. 6423 10 „ „ 5000 1423 13,054
1906.. 6741 10 ~ „ 5000 1741 14,795
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making
it £60,000, and reducing reserves to .. 4,795
1907.. 6778 10 p.c. = 6000 —• 778 5,573
1908.. 6705 10 „„ 6000 705 6,278
1909.. 6308 10 „ „ 6000 308 6,586
1910.. 6463 10 ~ „ 6000 463 7,049
1911.. 6854 10 ~ ~ 6000 854 7,903
1912.. 7354 10 „., 6000 £lOO9 345 8,2 ‘8
1913.. 6537 10 „ „ 6000 440 97 8,345
1914.. 7033 10 „ „ 6000 1033 9,378
1915.. 6723 10 „,, 6000 723 10,101
1916.. 5768 9 „„ 5400 368 10,469
This co. carries on business in Castlemaine,
and has lived an exemplary life, always
leaving a little bit over for the dull day
when the wowser might turn the world
upside down. Unlike most brewery cos. its
liabilities don’t amount to anything worth
talking about; and its steadily growing
funds have been put into freehold pubs, etc.
Ten years’ movement of figures is shown
next: —
1906. 1915. 1916.
Capital £50,000 £60,000 £60,000
Liabilities . . . . 7,092 6,000
Properties . . . . 25,016 48,007 49,284
Other assets .. .. 42,279 32,116 29,585
Trade account balance 10,295 8,793 9,077
Expenses . . .. 3,303 2,069 3,309
The assets other than properties consist of
stocks, book-debts, mortgages, plant;, etc.
Mortgages used to be pretty heavy; but
the money has been drawn out of that risk
and put into freeholds; and in practice
perhaps the risk is no greater,, whatever it
may be in theory. Anyhow, without getting


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LET' DGE, Manager.
The Pacific Cableßoard
IIEST HOUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
,'™ c T 1 . ca ’ to be Posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages- are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
o/ i/ 9d. (minimum
' 1/6 1 15/-, 20 words)
4Jd.
1/9 ( 7d. (minimum
1 ) 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4 {
(11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and ■ Bern, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained -it
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. Citv 1346 (3 lines)'
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne Tel. ?r>BB.
J. MIL WARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Gt. Britain ..
New Zealand..
Canada
•t ari Bornto
Fire, Marin
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,C0C
Subscribed Capital 194.235
Paid-up Capital 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
ACENTS WANTED.
Established 1910.
Branches in every State
Write for particular-.
w. It. CAVE, General Manager,
563 George Street, Sydney.
lhe General Electric Go. manufacture mine elee-
tuc locomotives of both storage battery and trolley
types, which will withstand the most severe operating
conditions of mine service. Careful study of loeo-
r!l ves 111 actual service, and a thorough investigation
• u" Y ailet ] problems of mine haulage has resulted
m the introduction of new improvements-and refine-
ments of designs. These locomotives cover a range
of sizes and forms wide enough to include any
haulage .requirements within the demands of electric
locomotive work, and incorporate all those features
which have been most desirable by practical mine
operators. Anyone requiring either information or
quotations in this connection may obtain same by
communicating with the Australian General Electric
Co., WentwOrth Avenue, Sydney ; or corner of Queen
and Little Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney-, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete ; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Pipe conquers difficulties ! Not only
does it carry all fluids, hot or cold, without deteriora-
tion, but it is light to handle and can quickly be
laid by unskilled labor. It is the cheapest piping
to buy. Send for illustrated catalogue. 'The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Company, Limited (head office),
57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Foots-
cray, Victoria ; Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * ,
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * ►
In addition to making Wrought Iren, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
Earth-iiandling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 (
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 t
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -—■■ ’■
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
m
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. AV. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 43 YOUNC STREET.
l)nti:cT<Hs:
The lion. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAU,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
IT. Y. BRADDON, Esq. JAMES KIDD, Esq.
11. AY. BELL, Esq. It. M. PITT, Esq.
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq.
Before making a AVill or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book
let giving the Company's charges and setting
forth tV advantages of appointing the Com-
pany,'to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
in any new capital, the co. has now
£24,000 more in property than it had 10
years ago, and it hasn’t reduced its other
assets by quite £18,000; so that, assuming
assets have been kept well written down
against depreciation, the co. has paid its
dividend and had £ll,OOO over to put into
the stocking in 10 years, xhe dividend is,
however, dropped now; for, while gross
trading profits have not been better than
usual, taxes have run the exes, up con-
siderably.
* * * *
The Union Building Society (Mel-
bourne) :
Net Added to Re-
Jidv, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1905 ' £2,124
1906 .. £lOlO 5 p.cl = £560 £450 2,574
7907 . . 1640 6 ~ „ 1555 85 2,659
1908 .. 2264 6 ~ „ 1654 610 3,269
1909 . . 2410 7 „ „ 2068 342 3,611
1910 .. 2848 7 „ „ 2251 597 4.208
1911 .. 3629 7 „ „ 2517 1112 5,320
1912 .. 4317 7J„ ~2975 1342 6,662
1913 .. 4714 74,, ~ 3130 1584 8,246
1914 .. 4686 74,, „ 3323 1363 9,609
1915 .. 5037 74 „ ~3480 1557 11,166
1916 . . 5235 8 ~ ~ 3821 1414 12,580
h irst as to the security for depositors. This
as well. as the progress of the office can
best bo judged by the following table :
Assets.
Deposits, Loans, , *
.Tidy, Overdrafts, etc. Mortgages. Liquid Assets.
1906 .. £17,825 £47,749 £136
1910 .. 44,348 86,109 6
1911 .. 46,239 93,158 21
'1912 . . 63,490 115,148 36
1913 .. 54,565 110,290 10
1914 .. 65,735 126,544 10
1915 .. 62,731 127,568 10
1916 .. 56,228 124,250 10
Thus the mortgages outstanding are more
than double the total amount owing by the
society ; and that would secure the creditors
against everything but a catastrophe greater
than can be at present conceived. For it
has to be remembered that the £124,250 does
not represent the full value of the securities.
I’he co. has been lending rather sparingly
during the last couple of years—only
£40,153 altogether—so the bulk of the loans
have had more than two years’ instalments
paid off them, and this of course reduces the
society’s risks. As for shareholders’ pros-
pects, the chances are that building will not
be energetic for some years to come, and the
demand for accommodation on building-
society terms is not likely to be brisk. For-
tunately, the Union has accumulated a tidy
reserve; and if advances have been made
with prudence and this fund has not to be
tapped to make losses good, the society with
economical management should at least find
enough use for its money to show 6 p.c. on
its capital during the dry time.
The South Aus. Brewing Co., in its half-
yearly report, makes the staggering assertion
that, after five months of six o’clock closing,
while the bottling has increased by about 50
per cent., the bulk or barrel output has not
diminished. Still, the usual custom of
reckoning the interim dividend in the com-
fortable certainty of a big summer trade has
not been followed this time ; and the direc-
tors congratulate themselves on an excess of
caution in reducing the interim dividend from
10. per cent, to 6|, which is Is. 3d. on the
paid-up £2 share.
To the end of June Westralia’s State bat-
teries had treated 1.087,550 tons of gold ore
tor a return of £4,554,786 and put through
(» -Jr * * tons of tin ore for black tin worth
£87,305. The Phillips River State Smelter
treated 12,881 tons in 1915 for 944 tons of
blister copper, 813 Boz. gold and 79660 z. silver.
Customers got £26,140, and £30,557 was swal-
lowed up in smelting on the spot .and in ship-
ment to aN. S. Wales refinery. Customers
would have received more but for the increase
in the cost of coke and other supplies. As it
was, they did a lot better than they would
have done had they shipped the ore them-
selves.
Now that the ballooning of Edna May
Deeps is over, Peacock’s office isn’t laying
odus on the chance of the new issue of
30,000 shares being unloaded at 255. So it
looks as if Duff will have to do the needful,
unless another market flutter comes along.
The clean-up of 2530 z. from 190 tons wasn’t
at all bad, though a lot more was expected
because the first run of 10 tons went 500 z.,
and it was believed the dyke stuff run into
was assaying 3oz. Deeps reports that the
shoot is turning north-east, and it is not
before such a wanted. That the
lode has hugged the china Mav boundary so
closely doesn’t speak well for the chance of
getting a lot of stone overhead at 480 ft.
* * * *
A report on the Edna May Deeps by a
good outside man would fill a want long felt.
And things have happened lately to make it
more desirable than ever.
Adelaide Enterprise Syndicate (W.A.) is
not getting a fair deal. For some time past
it has been working a 20s. formation on the
side of Mount Charlotte, at the north end of
the Kalgoorlie field, and with the aid of a
small mill has paid three Is. divs., amount-
ing in all to £4OO. It is anxious to instal
additional plant, but high price of water for
crushing is the stumbling block. This small,
struggling venture, working on £1 ore at the
poor end of Ivalgoorlie, is charged 7s. Od. per
1000 gallons of water, while the big cos. on
the south and richer end of the field get as
much as they want for Is. Od. per 1000.
From Westonia :—•
lie Edna May Junction’s nibble at the Great Un-
known, Marda (W.A.). The show has a rich vein
of ore such as the Junction has not had the pleasure
of previously operating- on. At the same time the
vein is on the narrow side and the country rock is
on the hard side. The chances of the Unknown
reaching the profit-distribution stage are slight; but
the opportunities that it will afford for market
fluttering are magnificent.
The Edna May Consolidated has struck another
bulge of quartz, though it is not likely to possess
any great length. However, the market has
responded from 4s. to Ss. fid.; and as the lease prior
to the new lode being struck was worth practically
nil, that is pretty solid going.
Edna May Central has paid a second dividend and
may pay a few more. After that Central supporters
will have no need to fear that their dividends will
be unduly afflicted by Federal income taxation.
Moribund Southern Cross (W.A.) bucked
up the other day when it was reported that
the new find 26 miles from Yellowdine and
about 40 miles from the Cross had prospects.
Conflicting accounts have since been re-
ceived, but reliable information indicates that
results are encouraging.
Sufficient capital has been raised to give
Mount Rankin, on the Yilgarn field (W.A.),
a further go. The show is what boomsters
describe as a big thing; but it isn’t safe to
go nap on it.
The agreement between the Westralian
Chamber of Mines and the State Taxation
llept. in regard to taxation of mining has
been announced. The Dept, agrees to allow
a deduction of the total cost of development,
except on main shafts. So Lake View and
Oroya has withdrawn its appeal to the- Privy
Council against the Full Court’s decision in
its test case against the State Treasurer, each
side paying its own costs. Negotiations are
still proceeding in respect to deductions for
depreciation of mining plants.
Things are deadly slow at Ararat (Vic.)
and it is up to Harry Dodd to explain.
South Larigi isn’t doing more than a gentle
meander, and as Toole’s staff at the New
Langi hasn't persuaded the Cathcart gutter
to tome down into No. 6 crosscut, there isn’t
much cheer from that quarter. His best
faces are to the west off No. 5 crosscut from
INo. 2 shaft, but the wash stoped is too
small to ease up calls, and that, after all, is
what is looked for in New Langi. where
£120,000 has already been shovelled in by
shareholders.
Ajax Central, Daylesford (Vic*), isn’t
going to stop at the stone in the shallow flat
makes and vertical shoots and not give the
deep ground a trial. Another 200 ft. will be
sunk to get through the supposed blank that
has brought every mine in the Ajax line up
with a round turn once 700 ft. has been
reached. The other shows ought to stand a
portion of the costs of sinking, but Vic-
torian cos. generally prefer to loaf on the
other chap.
* * - * *
This is the way things have gone at the
Pioneer (Tas.)
Drift, Costs, Tin won,
cub. yd. cub. yd. per cub. yd.
91-! •• •• 613,700 4.413 d. 1.1941 b.
1916 • . . . 996,000 3.846 d. ,9991 b.
1900 to 1916 . . 7,782,000 6.106 d. 1.7191 b.
Hence the tin output of the mine since Cecil
Ryan took it in hand has been 5975 tons of
black tin. What a plum dead A. Mellor and
the old Tasmanian owners let drop into the
mouths of Edward Miller, Harvey Patter-
son, Alfred Bright and others of that ilk !
F a _ st year’s run was reduced by drought to
o-jT tons. This year’s rain balanced matters,
for the yield was 444 tons, with costs a
record. So a proud man is Cecd Ryan as
he stalks with the nozzle round a face of
drift 1400 ft. wide by 60ft. deep. What a
hydro-electric plant means to him in work-
ing costs is shown by 4,097.000 units bavins
been generated at a cost of 0.053 d. per unit.
As a sideline, the co. has the Argonaut
lease, four miles from St. Helens, out of
wMCi 389,000 cub. yards have averaged
.9291 b. tin oxide, though the last year’s
average improved to 1.0511 b. This leaves a
nice bit of profit. Now the plant has been
tackle the terrace ground, where
800,000 cub. yards represent payable reserves
ahead. So far, £32,000 has been split up
the Pioneer crowd since August,
1915, even with tin well below the average
of pre-war prices.
* * * *
New Burragorang (N.S.W.) will hand
out a threepenny at the end of the month.
But it has been a long struggle to get it.
Shipments of lower-grade ore from an old
shaft have helped the profit, and the im-
proved price of silver and lead has made
medium-grade stuff serviceable. Yerranderie
ls . JO miles from Picton, and as the
airship flies this field is within 50 miles of
Sidney; but it is languishing because of
expensive transport and bad roads through
wild mountain country. Still it couldn’t
o ? big thing even if costs were at the
Broken Hill level.
* * *
from Platman,” at Oooktown:—
'iiie Melbourne-owned Lode Hill put £l5OO into
the Uar Loan. Very patriotic, no doubt; but it
was poor consolation for those who, buying in antici-
pation of an increased yield and a probable dividend,
got neither, and saw shares tumble to 2s. The latest
rumor is that a prospecting option has been taken
over Knowlton’s claim. It should prove a better
bargain than the Roaring Meg.
Bonnie Dundee North is opening out at the 1728 ft.
level on a promising formation, leaders carrying free
gold. According to the map the shaft 'is right
between the present Bonnie Dundee and the old
Queen Cross shoot, so it is quite on the cards that
history will repeat itself on the Towers and the
Magic Circle again bring prosperity to the old field.
Although many are anxiously awaiting details of
the Chillagoe purchase, Premier Ryan is an oyster
on the subject. The railway earnings of Chiliagoe
during the period of the war have averaged about
£2200 per month; but as the rates are 50 p.c. over
those charged by Government, it means that, with the
same freight, the earnings under Government control,
unless specially high rates are levied, will be about
£l5OO per month. Thus the gross earnings would not
pay -1 p.c. on the cost of purchase. It is no use arguing
that the war has reduced earnings. Copper is over
£lOO per ton, lead over £3O, molybdenite over
£4OO, wolfram £l6B, and antimony a big pi’ice,
and it is not likely that post-war markets are going
to be higher. They are much more likely to be far
lower. Very few mines in the district," and those
only small ones, are working; in fact, it is pretty
ceitain that not enough ore is produced in the
Chillagoe district in six months to keep the smelters
i mining that many weeks. Including this latest pur-
chase, the Ryan Government has spent half a million
in relieving private owners of non-paying railways—
£33,ooo on Mount Garnet, £17,000 on Mount Molloy,
and £450,000 on Chillagoe. Quite a number of ardent
Labor supporters are asking why.
It is very remarkable how information from a far-
away mine ebbs and flows. A few weeks ago radios
from Kulamadau were published at frequent intervals.
There were good developments, a crushing totalling
£6789, and then—a sudden silence. During the
period when information was gushing out shares went
from ls. 6d. to 3s. ; but after the sacred stillness set
in again, buyers wouldn’t offer more than the old
Is. 6d. Are shareholders only entitled to informa-
tion when somebody is working a scheme in the
market ?
The S. Aus. Oil Wells Co., Kobe (5.A.).,
has had another report from Dr. Basedow, the
Adelaide geologist, who went to have a look
when the drill had got down 3500 ft. For
most of that distance it has been in hard,
blue, grey and purple shales; and “the first
change of country from the impervious shales
to a fair-sized bed of porous sandstone or
other rock will decide the question If a
porous rock lies beneath them the chances of
success are good indeed.” There are, how-
ever, a couple of “buts.” Porous rock may
not exist in that locality; and, if it does, “an
original oilpool may have already escaped,
and its place may have been taken bv
water.”
Hartwell Cornier, at one time the Speck’s
State mining engineer, has been looking into
the working of an asbestos deposit at
Beaconsfield (Tas.) for a Vic. syndicate;
and another Melbourne syndicate also pro-
poses to get busy thereabouts.
The British New Guinea Development Co.
(I apua) had at latest < 459 acres under
crop, including 5303 acres of cocoanut plan-
tations and 2156 acres planted with tobacco
and rubber. The rubber is now coming into
bearing, and the yield should next year reach
nearly 100,0001 b. The co. is building a
tobacco factory in the Island ; and there
ought to be a good demand for the weed even
without an export trade.
A new geological map of the Speck is now
being issued. The last (and first) previous
effort ot the kind was made 28 years ,i«o
when statistician Johnston, who is. a geolo-
gist as well as an expert on fish and other
things, was the responsible party. Even the
Speck’s geological department has found out
a little in 28 years; hence the new departure.
1 lie scale is to be the old one of 15 miles to
the inch, and the map is to be kept more or
less up to date in future.
* *
• are openings for submarine mining
in the Speck. Years ago a party started to
work a silver-mine below high-water mark
at lenguin and thought of building a wall
,round it to keep the water out, but came to
the conclusion that it would not pay. The
other day the contractors who are dredging
the channel at Currie Harbor (King
Island) came on a bed of lignite and stripped
away a foot of it for a width of about 40
feet. And on the eastern side of Maria
Island there s tin at the mouth of a creek,
and some miners reckon there’s a good deal
ot it just out to sea.
Prothero Jones, director of the Golden
Horseshoe and chairman of the Fremantle
Smelters, is in Westralia for a few weeks
Jones was unearthed in Coolgardie 20-odd
\ears ago by Charlie Kaufman, who took
Him to -London as his private secretary. He
prospered and before manv years had as
"ZtoSi r Ami he knows
Paddymelon” : \\ hat’s wrong with apply-
in p the ])rmciple of the vacuum-cleaner to rid
mines ot dust and choke damp? After the
old dust has been removed attach the suckers#
to tne rock-drills and take up the new dust
as fast as it is made. This would cause a
current of fresh air, and allow more work to
be done in rises and such-like little hells. In
coal-mines the suckers would be put at the
lower points for choke and the high points
tor fire damp. Given enough power, you
could pull out not only the dust and gas. but
the miners’ whiskers if you wanted to.


Under
Royal
Warrant
m
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
IQSI
man
champagne
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
jvtosie
V ALLAN & CO.
pnr. ltd.
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Price 2-/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song —MW
Meditation - - More/
A Resolve - - Kotlar
Question * - Kotlar
Contemplation - - Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Blore
ALLAN S. 261 ColiinsSt.. Melb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <& CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1906.
FESQ C£b CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
1679.
SINCE
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Octobek 9, 1916.
My Dear Aiuni, —
The Rajah of Pudukota and Mrs. Pudu-
kota were regular visitors at the races, with
her sister in the party. On the second day
the Ranee had a cloud of white ninon
trimmed with blue silk scallops to help her
through the dress-parade. lie was clothed
in dignity and a grey sac suit.
Sunshine on Saturday brought out billows
of white muslin in a foam of frills and
tucks, and Niagaras of lace falling over the
delicate beauty of gossamer drapery. Some
of the thin white frocks were like the cob-
web neglige of old French fashions. The
coat, when there was a coat, was buuched
up behind to look like an airy bustle. By
way of an anti-climax a vivid blue or cherry
sash came from the front to tie up the
Dolly Varden hump. Steam laundries won’t
be allowed to get their teeth into this
summer’s best pettis. They float like rain-
bow creations of muslin and lace, fine as a
spider’s web. Girls looked their sweetest in
this revival of fluff. Skirts are quite an
inch longer than they were, which helps the
thick ankle that has to be shrined in the
white stockings that broaden our understand-
ings.
Some of the white frocks—faint blush-
rose pink and azure blue shared the popu-
larity of the muslin snowballs —were
trimmed from waist to hem with everything
the needle can put together. Tiny tucks;
then an outbreak of stiff little ruches. To
finish up, loops of ribbon over a cascade of
half-inch flounces. The really, truly, up-to-
to-morrow muslin frock will have to be dry-
cleaned —unless the handy owner takes a day
to personally conduct an electric iron over
its lacy entrenchments.
In the big crowd that flutters with its
money in its hand around the tall tombstones
bearing the names of Israel there was plenty
of finery. Mrs. Spencer Brunton noted the
odds under the brim of a pink rose-trimmed
hat that top-dressed one of the latest things
in sand-colored silk. This, like other frocks
that are counted It, was piped with a con-
trasting of deeper shade in velvet. For
piped trimming, such as we once wore on the
pique frocks of childhood, is in. In silky
black Mrs. Tom Rolin made a picturesque
relief to the cloud of pink and blue butter-
flies on the lawn. Madge Fabian, without
the poetry of her silky black ringlets, looked
like other young women in magpie check.
For checks, either as large as a draught-
board or of the pepper-and-salt design once
beloved of men in the whiskered age, are also
in.
In the delicate, motli-like beauty of
organdie muslin Jeanette Gordon, Dora Alex-
ander, Flo Brennan and Helen Onslow
floated across the lawn in a gentle breeze.
Buff looks hard—the mundane frock of a
busy girl who must buy useful colors, and
wears them with mutiny in her soul. But it
has forced its way into the diary of race-
week. The old-fashioned shade was seen at
its best on Janet Knox, a graceful damsel
fond of delicate shades. Pretty Mary Grim-
le.v, almost extinguished under a wide black
hat, got into a dull buff gown that had a
grandmotherly cut and was all round the
same.
Mrs. Dicky Richards wore her millinery
well off her face; for the 1916 hat is an
adaptable creation. It perches complaisantly
on the crown of the head, or, as one of the
Morton girls wore her race sombrero, on the
eyebrows, with nothing but a nose and chin
in the fresh air. Mrs. Galbraith, in dark
brown, came along ahead of a bronze lady
who flashed the silky sheen of a wood-
pigeon in bunched-up taffetas. Enid Mac-
arthur looked as cool as iced water-melon in
a few yards of summery voile, with a fine
black line through it. The Allisons of Coomoo
Coomoo, a few Bucklands, Falkiners from
the Riverina, Lachlan Mackinnon from the
other side of the Murray, the Ernest
Raleighs, and Melbourne’s surgeon Syme
have been here for the deluge and after.
Sydney still palpitates with the tense
patriotism of the women’s meeting in the
Town Hall. You should have seen our
Billy boil over in seething scorn of the
agitators who fill housemaids with silly tales
of a coming rush of Chinese domestics. It
wasn’t always possible for anyone, except a
valiant band of reporters who stormed the
platform and got into line with our Billy’s
ears, to hear the overflow.
Half a dozen “anti” women, cunningly
distributed in the galleries and in the dense
mass in the body of the hall, contrived to
occasionally keep 4000 others from hearing
the Prime Minister’s words. An old dame
with a screech like a harbor siren held up
the meeting for about 10 minutes. Shaking
her fist from a gallery, she was so wedged in
with the crowd that it took time to put the
muffler of authority over her infuriated hat.
Just here one can fling a small posy at
the Town Hall officials. Their tact and
patience in handling the viragos was admir-
able. The cracked siren having been dealt
with, a young woman in the eastern gallery
took charge. Standing in a niche high up
against the wall, she yelped hysterically till
a perspiring official reduced her to a merely
local centre of annoyance. In the middle of
the hall a touzled female then shrieked her
defiance of law and order.
But there were 4000 other women ready
to seize the little man and chair him through
the hall if it had been a convenient climax.
Hankies fluttered in a snowfall of “.Yes.”
On the platform Dr. Mary Booth headed
the procession that brought Billy from the
recess behind the organ. Mrs. David and
Miss Gurney were near the edge of the plat-
form, where women clung like flies round
a lioney-pot. The Y.W.C.A. conference
dames —Miss Barnes the shepherdess—had
an unwonted air of hilarity, their millinery
having been banged over the ear in their
struggle to reach the swarm. Mrs. Joe
Cook, the C. G. Wade lady, Mrs. Jim
Onslow, Mrs. Huxtable, Knoxes, Dockers,
Mrs. Dillon (a fine fighter for our men in
the trenches), Eadith Walker, Margaret
Windeyer fin haste from the Mitchell
Library), Mrs. Langer Owen (you may be
sure!), a herd of ’Varsity dames, and good-
ness knows who besides, sat near.
Lady Stanley, wife of Victoria’s vice-regal,
is over here looking for health. She still
walks with a stick. With some of her olive
branches the popular lady is recuperating on
the blue hills beyond Leura.
There’s a General Synod in session, and
three bishops are having a chop with Gover-
nor Strickland; they are camping in the
staff quarters, once full of dashing aides and
the pop of—ginger-beer corks. His Grace
Donaldson of Brisbane, like the Nor’-West
Australian Thrower, is a bachelor, so these
two had no ladies to bring to Sydney. The
Melbourne shepherd, Lowtlier Clarke, is a
grass-widower for the time being. They are
usually in for breakfast and dinner, but go
their own ways all day.
The nasty lung wound that brought tall,
manly soldier Firth this way has been
worrying again; so it had to be fixed up on
the operating-table. Now the subject is
convalescing at Duntroon, and is likely to get
back to the G.-G.’s staff before many days.
You will be sur-
prised to hear that
Ethel Turner (Mrs.
11. R. Curlewis)
has been ill. Cer-
tainly it was the
inevitable appen-
dicitis that sent
her to hospital, but
then she has been
so consistently in-
dustrious since
“Seven Little Aus-
tralians” w a s
written that one
supposed she must
be immune from
ordinary ailments.
The plucky little
woman finished her
usual book for
Christmas, read the proofs of “The
Australian Soldiers’ Gift Book,” of
which she is joint-editor, and polished off
some Red Cross work besides other odds
and ends before resigning herself to the
surgeon’s tender mercies. The latest news
is that Mrs. Curlewis is getting on very well
and will be able to register her vote on the
28 th.
The Kenneth Mackays handed over their
eldest treasure Annie to her favorite soldier
the other wet day. He is Lieut. Aldred
Nelson Baldry. It was an old-fashioned
country wedding, and chaises full of friends
were bogged in the mud all along the bush
track to Wallandoon. Chaplain-Captain
Baton, who tied the knot in the local kirk,
called the weather “showers of blessings.”
Still, the long-distance travellers who had
to dig themselves out would have cheerfully
postponed some of it till they were better
equipped with picks and spades. The bride’s
dark eyes flashed under a foamy veil. Sister
Agnes attended to the set of the billowy
white frock hand-embroidered with posies.
The second-best man was Lieut. Charles
Baldry, also ready for the Big Fight. Wal-
landoon homestead has a hall large enough
to house a banquet. Garnished with white
flowers and shining green leaves —the snowy
lilac had travelled from Goulburn to be pre-
sent—it made a scented bower for the wed-
ding party.
On Saturday Premier Holman officially
opened the new Zoo, which isn’t more than
a quarter of a Zoo yet. The flood waters
elsewhere having subsided, a few of the
animals came out of the older ark to be
stared at. Incidentally it meant opening a
new tramline which connects the northern
system with the delightful place where the
Zoo is to be. Holman was the young man
eloquent, as usual; Hoyle, of the Railways,
told the animals how thankful to William
they ought to be; Fred Flowers, President of
the Council, not long back from a trip to
England, made a few reminiscent remarks;
and then the wild beasts were shown how to
rush to their tucker when they are hungry,
It was only afternoon-tea, too.
Arundel Orchard,
Mus. Bac., owns
the spectacles that
confront you just
here. He came from
London years ago
to take the Lieder-
tafei’s baton which
Alfred Hill gave up
when he went back
to Maoriland. A
week or two ago
the musical
Orchard resigned
the wand; so the
old Lied., now the
Apollo Club, handed
him a golden lyre.
As conductor of
the Sydney Madri-
gal Society he is in charge of its part-song
concerts to soldiers this week and next.
Amongst his ordinary labors in each strenu-
ous week is the direction of the Great Syna-
gogue choir; he is lecturer in the History
and Literature of Music at the Conserva-
torium, and leader of a singing class in that
chalet. As president of the N.S.W. Musical
Association Orchard ought no doubt to often
thrash the wild and irritable animal. But
he only gives it a mild prod with his
umbrella, I expect, for there’s no gunpowder
in his temper.
Brown lio]land covers have been folded
away in Admiralty House for the coming of
the Munro Fergusons. His Ex., by_ the way,
enters also into possession of his official
eyrie in the roof of the Commonwealth
Bank. Little Haskett Smith will be the
chief attendant swain.
Race-week hats are of all shapes and sizes.
A few shoot up like rockets in folds of silk
or velvet. A flower or rosette is stuck near
the uppermost rim, and the whole has to be
kept in place only a good milliner knows
how. The flat, pancake style is more subtle.
Its beauty is usually concentrated on a
gigantic rose —just one flower. But onq hat
of this new mode, seen at Randwick, had a
trail of white water-lilies round the brim.
It looked apropos of our late rainy season.
Secretary Andrews, of the Australian
Club, has secured a promise from Gladys
Gould. She’s the youngest daughter of
Albert,,-who made a pile—l forget exactly
how, but it’s to do with mines and so forth.
Alleyne Conran, a grand-daughter of that
Colonel Conran who once “attended” a
Queensland Governor, was married in
London a few weeks ago. The ’groom has
a yard and a half of names, but they boil
down to Henry Upton. He is in the East
Kent Mounted Rifles, and the last surviving
son of Viscount Templetown.
Nobody trusted the weather for an out-
door show last week-end. It cleared, of
course, but committee dames couldn’t know
that the goloshes would stay home on Satur-
day. So the Cullen lady opened a fete for
the Edith Cavell House in the Town Hall.
Funds for the upkeep of this beautiful rest-
home for weary nurses are swelling visibly.
W. E. Shaw and his wife gave their Sum-
mer Hill mansion, and of course that was a
magnificent start.
There was regret at the passing out in his
prime of Harry Merewether on Friday. An
ancient lung trouble, caused by hydatids, fol-
lowed by pneumonia, ended things. Mrs.
Merewether was once the handsome Edith
MacCabe, of the squatting elect of Sydney.
Her mother, still an active spectator of
Edgecliff society, had a large family, and
belonged to the Osborne tribe. Two Mere-
wether sons are fighting, one in France and
another in the Navy; and in a few
weeks the Harry Merewethers were to have
left for the other end with a younger son.
The Bernard Tripp pair are spending a
few days here before returning to their South
Canterbury (M.L.) sheep. Mrs. Bernard
used to be a Fletcher of Melbourne, and
thereabouts she has camped while her hus-
band has done Red Cross duty in London;
and agent Tom MacKenzie is already cabling
for the squatter’s return.
Artist Douglas Perrett came over from
Maoriland to sample N. S. Wales scenery.
But he met the great deluge and could only
leap the foaming torrents in Sydney by-ways.
His attractive pictures of Maoriland peaks
included some of the little Dominion’s
famous winter sunsets which stain the west
with the crimson of ' a pomegranate.
Perrett’s luck being “out’' this trip, his oils
and pastels were sold by auction. Ait
patrons are shy as waterfowl at the best or
times. But the yells of the anti-Australians
this week smother everything but our detei-
mination to make the referendum not what
Potsdam is hoping for.
Prof. Gilbert Murray—brother of Papua’s
long Excellency—is now a sergeant in an
Oxford Volunteer Regiment. He had
recently to salute nicely and ask for a tew
days’ ieave of absence. A conference on
dead languages was waiting for Sergeant
Murray’s remarks on ancient Greece.
The Overseas’ matrimonial exchange is
still keeping the London parsons busy. A
Tenterfield man, 1 Charles Miller, was
recently wed to Nora MacNachtan, a
daughter of Colonel Neil MacNachtan, ot
Ontario. A few days previously, Maidie
Lavater, a daughter of the late G. Lavater,
of Sydney, took a plain gold ring from
Lieut. Archer Forsyth, of the Army Cyclist
corps. And Nurse Burkett, of Prince Alfred
before she went out to help repair Billjim,
has been made Mrs. Gibson : the young man
is a doctor, of the Bundaberg sugar clan.
“Carmen,” with Miss Russ in charge,
brought along carloads of first-nighters to
the Opera House. Included were the Kelso
King duet (Mrs. K. in a black wrap
threaded with gold) ; E. P. Simpson; Mrs.
Steer Bowker, with an ermine stole over her
finery, and a young daughter to hear the
music. Various stalled visitors, by the way,
appear to go to the opera for other reasons.
A party of four, talking in sonorous tones,
gave their neighbors some country gossip as
conductor Gonsalez steered his uncertain
orchestra to the tragic close. Chief Secre-
tary Black, in his accustomed box, had the
Maymans to keep him company. The lady
who looks as if she might be Mrs. Cappelli
sat "above them, watching her favorite tenor
chase his faithless Carmen with a butcher’s
knife. One night last week Consul-General
Eles was in a box. But he chanced to be
iu Sydney when “Butterfly” was on the bill.
Butterfly’s lady friends, singing hard against
the orchestra in Act 1., probably drove the
Italian chieftain hurriedly back to Mel-
bourne.
The United Charities Fund is in the
nethermost pit of impecuniosity-—and you
can guess what that feels like. Sixty-four
charities are dependent on it for an extra
scrape of butter this coming Christmas; and
it doesn’t look as though they will get
enough to cover the crust. 163 Pitt-street
is the address that awaits your smallest
contribution. Its big carnival is on October
14.
Dr. Grieve, a Sydney boy who recently got
a military decoration for extraordinarily
plucky and useful work with the A.S.C. in
the big August push, is engaged to “Kind-
chie” Amor, of Manly. She leaves for Eng-
land next month, and will have the wedding-
gown all ready to slip on when she gets there.
The ’Varsity show for the War Chest
brought in over £9O0 —dazzling figures for a
mere afternoon-and-evening mixed bazaar
and students’ sing-song.
Another batch of Voluntary Aids are likely
to be gathered up for British hospitals in
the next couple of months or so. The British
Red Cross, which paid the exes, of the last
30, will again foot the bill.
Mrs. Tom Raine’s big fete for the 17th
Battalion happens on October 14. Leave the
Double Bay tram at Manning-road, and
you’ll see the bunting over the garden gate.
Hon. secs. Marjorie Mort and Gladys
Owen forward a ream of matter concerning
Red Cross activities for Australian war
prisoners in Germany. The Geneva Red
Cross is helping our Inquiry Department;
and there seems to be a- reasonable hope
that our men will be allowed (in some of
the camps, anyhow) to receive comforts from
outside. Warm clothing and other gifts
should be addressed to the Australian. Red
Cross Commissioners, 54 Victoria-street,
London, S.W.
Arts and Crafts Workers have a good
show on view in Challis House windows. Go
and see it. Then you can order your Christ-
mas presents.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
Old John Davies, who draws a neat screw
as President of the Vic. Leg. Council, is
doing the decent thingidnstead of giving the
annual gorge to members. This dinner —
for 36 members aud a few pressmen—is an
expensive affair, as becomes a House of Fat,
and John reckoned the £lOO would look bet-
ter in the Repatriation Fund. He has
handed over a cheque accordingly.
At 72 old John Nobbs has been given the
job of trying to win back the Granville
(N.S.W.) electorate for the Liberals. But
Granville is now a big industrial hive, and
even the ideal whip of many Parliaments
will find it hard work to win that sort of
seat on mere personal popularity.


CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
* r ;
m
m
S-V'S
%
T
sr
P
m
« /«*
; ,y
Ksc
\2*£iir
806 S
eg
_4'
r:. *
KO«
\
\
tM
&
Sr; ik ■SVi' r {iZTJSt'
rXmm
1
j
s&!r**r.
w;
/ H. A>:. .«>•-'. $w
yET'
-:.H
Nl
(5?.®
2K
--V„
.sr
v<
v~
- £
MM2
fern
Si
ft)
mss
wmm
mas
>«#l
*&*& /vSSKrf' .-aSaai
e *
©g eg
WWW-®?ws'MWww
v \
.: ;
55^
' /
*7
:m
v
- y
■■
7f
Mf
/
/
s®
iQ»4 l^j>3
Cobra,” Boot PolisH.
anaHHHnaHmaaw
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Knows how he
Can
snap a view
Of the Germans
While there’s light
o
“Go on, Bear, and
Get the kite!”
Now the kite is
In the blue,
And the Bear is
With it, too.
“Everything is
Clear,” says he,
“As a ‘COBRA’-d
Boot would be!”


Fine Footwear for Men —Style, Comfort, Keen Price.
Not every man. even though his income warrant it, cares to have his boots.made to order, and
this is where Farmer’s exclusive and distinguished Footwear helps. Search the cit\ thiough and
you'll not find any values to equal Farmer's in point of style, comfort and keen price. v\ e quote.
XJRS3 ( a s illustrated). — Superior Sterling Patent. Colt Lace Boots, dull kid
l.’gs, straight caps. Price .7 27/6
URS4. — Oxford Lace Shoes, Tan Kid, lined
throughout. Self straight caps. Price.. 27/6
URSS. —Finest French Glace Kid Lace
Roots, Tan Kid, lined throughout. Self straight
caps. Price 32/6
All these lines can be had in half-sizes.
We have 'just received large deliveries of G. E.
Keith’s Highest-Grade Patent Boots, in all sizes,
from 4’s to 10’s.
URS6. — Oxford and Derby Styles.
Price 42/-
URS7. — In All White Nubuck. Sizes 5 s
to 9’s. Price 39/6
We Pay Carriage on these Goods.
FAKMEffi'S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
m
EVERY PEARL HAS ITS CHARM.
jowi sipance wm'ias
(ANTISEPTIC)
wm
An Antiseptic
Tooth Paste,
i nter’s
Toilet Preparations
Make the PEARLS of
PRICELESS VALUE.
User! by Royalty.
Obtainable from all
Drapers, Civil Service,
W. H. Soul, etc.
See Demonstration now
at \V. T. WATERS, Cr.
George .& King Streets.
Send 2d. stamp for
sample of Soap or
Powder, to
JOHN STRANGE WINTER, 32 Depot,
26 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
.
mm
'•'
pr
A
“There is not
One Reason
Why any
Motorist
should buy
Imported
Tyres! ”
Australian-made “ Dunlops ”
will do anything the imported
cover will do —AND DO IT
BETTER AND CHEAPER
The reason is the special
high quality rubber used
and plenty of it; the great
strength embodied .in the
casing; the latest methods
of construction and full
value for the money you pay
for them. YOU GAIN IN
MILES AND ECONOMY
—AND YOUR COUNTRY
BENEFITS INDUSTRIAL-
LY—WHEN YOU USE
DUNLOP
TYRES.
You are sure of Tyre Satisfaction
if you specify “ Dunlops.”
IN GROOVED, THREE RIBBED
AND RUBBER NON-SKID.
OBTAINABLE
ALL GARAGES
m
m
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N./.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne. October 9,191 G.
My Dear Yarhie, —
The V.R.C., flooded out of Flemington,
had to bororw Caulfield for the October meet-
ing on Saturday. A huge crowd flowed out
from towu. Mrs. Widdis, in nav/ tailorings,
and Mrs. Mills, in fawn cloth,, saw their
husbands’ joint property, Reunion, win the
Marib.vrnong Stakes. Mrs. Leslie Mac-
donald appeared, but left early, wrapped in
heavy sealskin and gloom. Mrs. Leslie
Stuart sported smart black cloth ar.d a hat
like a small yacht with a huge white sail.
Mrs. Newbigin walked with her in grey and
blue. A couple of young Manifolds from
Camperdowu way aired the latest masculine
tailorings, which include flared skirts and
waists to the coats. Two of the girl flappers
of the same clan chose lace-straw hats
with inch-wide ribbons dangling. Leigh
Falkiner rushed out with his huge motor
full of be-furred womenfolk. The sun was
hot and the wind chill, so the wise women
wore heavy fur-trimmed coats and pitied the
summer moths in their light dresses.
Mrs. Billy Hughes was chief guest at
the Reps. Club on Friday afternoon, and
had Melba on her right and Mrs. Monash on
her left. She wore a white bonnet deco-
rated with pink celluloid cherries and blue
velvet plums. Her striped brown silk dress
was cut on the cross in the mad way of
the latest gowns, so that the stripes go
anywhere except up and down, and she was
muffled to the ears with white ostrich-
feather frilling. Melba was all sable-black.
A big Spanish-lace black veil draped her
cart-wheel hat. and her eyes twinkled
mischievously through the lace mesh.
Peggy Centre —an adorably pretty singer
girl from Honolulu —sang for the company.
Melba picked her out for a special protegee
part and brought her to Melbourne after
her last Honolulu trip. Peggy wore dove-
colored ruchings in her little hat and was
as demure as a bird. The Rep. room looked
cool and restful. The lights were shaded by
Maori mat-straw, and sheaves of gum-leaf
decoration were stuffed into scarlet fire-
buckets.
Gregan McMahon hovered on the outskirts
and pensively mopped his - brow. There
were numerous Rep. hostesses and one of
them had worked up to the last moment in
a print pinny, fixing decorations. Her now
dress was to be sent on from the chiffon
store to the Club, and as it did not arrive
to time the gallant McMahon set off in the
lady’s car to collect it. It was cap-
tured at last, and the owner got into it some-
how during the final awful flurry before Mrs.
Hughes arrived. Gregan would much rather
produce a new play than a new dress.
The ’Varsity students booked up Her
Majesty’s for the last performance of “The
Geisha,” and two boxes were occupied by
boys of fine physique dressed as sassiety
girls. One wore a dress of flounced white
glace, and Titian curls fashionably dressed.
Another wore a tulle waist and bare arms,
and had his false hair snooded in
a theatre cap. Students filled the gal-
lery and amused themselves by pelt-
ing confetti at the dress-circle. Extremely
proper University dames carried home
pecks of the insinuating stuff in their
wraps and gowns, and pints of it in their
hair. It was the deah boys’ night out,
you know ! Mrs. Geoff. Syine and her party
were in one pen. Mrs. Geoff, displayed a
gorgeous bead cloak made of sampler roses
on a white-and-black ground. A delightful
old gentleman occupied another box. He
had a silver top. a bookwormish air and fine
linen ruffled with lace in a forgotten style.
The students had a programme of their own
on the stage during the interval. Tommy
Dixon, son of rich old Mount Lyell Dixon,
did his best with some ’Varsity-made songs.
Another brother watched enviously from the
audience; this lad has theatrical yearnings
and has “walked on” in one or two .J.C.W.
productions. The wild overture was by
“Signor Dunloppi’s Italian Uproar Com-
pany.”
I’m' told that the sudden Sydney wedding
between a Melbourne Blockite of renown
and a stage-struck Maoriland girl caused
quite a sensation at the Australia. Mel-
bourne race visitors noticed the handsome
Blockstepper travelling over on the express
in company with two dashing-looking girls.
The trio taxied straight to the tall pub, and
in half an hour one of the girls had shed
travelling duds and was sitting in the lounge
arrayed blindingly in white cloth with a
white hat. “She must be going to a wed-
ding !” exclaimed the feminine sleuthhounds,
looking down at their own dusty tweeds.
They were right; the lady they were look-
ing at was the bride, and her mother was
waiting for the party to arrive. The ceremony
happened after lunch, and the newly-weds
sat in the hotel lounge all the evening. In
the old days when Mrs. Grundy was alive
and well, a bride never dared appear in her
old haunts for quite a month after the wed-
ding.
Lieut. “Mac” Gibbs, posted as miss'ng in
France, won the Military Cross before he
was mislaid. “Mac” was a third-year med.
who during his career at the Shop had
pushed the ball far and fast in League
struggles. The Gibbs family has been
anchored these many years at Colac, where
Dr. Gibbs does his share in keeping the
Western District free from gout. There are
only two boys. The doctor's other lad. Jack,
is also with the A.1.F., in parts for the
moment unknown.
Bonnie Watt of old—she married Cap-
tain Symons—is worrying over the silence
from France. There is a six-weeks-old
daughter in the house and dad has not yet
exulted by cable. The Captain was lately
in hospital suffering from shell-shock, but
subsequently got back to the firing-line.
Since then all has been silence.
But —six weeks! I low impatient the '
lady is! By the last mail a boy wrote that
he’d just got a letter from his brother. They
were both in camp in Egypt at the time
the letter was written, and only a few
miles from one another. They remained in
camp in Egypt for nearly two months more.
Then they both left for France. Four
months later the note was delivered there.
And parcels posted last near had just,
reached the trenches —months and months
after they had been given up. I suppose
their delivery is • the result of British dog-
gedness. Handy thing that doggedness. We
use it to distract attention from a lot of
earlier stupidity.
Leonora Eddington is back. Overcome
with home-sickness and sea-sickness, she left
the Vancouver-bound steamer at Auckland
when a cable told her that she would have
to go right on to England to meet her naval
bridegroom-elect. He was to have met her
at an altar in Halifax, but the Admiralty
orders upset those orange-blossom plans.
.Melba is undecided whether to take her
holiday _in India or Honolulu. The Hono-
lulu trip would be a comparatively quiet
laze, and that sort of holiday appeals to the
singer just now while she is feeling a sick
woman. Viceroy Chelmsford has invited
her to India, and she had mapped out a
■ wayside visit to our old friend Carmichael ;
but the gorgeousness of it all appals her at
present. She has not thrown off the enervat-
ing after-effects of influenza.
You remember the gloves you won from
Jimmy last year, when you bet him a pair
to a necktie about the divorce case? Well,
if you have done with them—and, of course,
you have by this time —don’t throw them
away. They can be made use of by the
patriotic Susies who are sewing vests for
soldiers. Any sort of kid gloves will do:
and send them along to Mrs. Mabel Peck.
Cold, cold —oh. there are shivers in the boys’
letters from France already.
Mrs. Crivelli is collecting boots and shoes
for the children in France, where it is now
almost impossible to buy footwear. Have
a look round and see if you can’t rake up
a pair for her.
Mrs. Everard Browne has lent her South
Yarra house and grounds for a garden fete
on Saturday. Admission is half a crown,
with something extra for reserving tea tables.
Proceeds are to go to a new Fund in aid
of French families taken prisoners by the
Germans and returned to France with empty
pockets—or no pockets at all.
The Ilyams sisteren have sent out the cards
for their annual ball, dated 21st inst. It is
for the “plain and fancy” dressed as usual,
and will be hopped at St. Kilda Town Hall.
Cousin Adelaide’s confession :—•
One of the J. H. Symon daughters has gone afield.
Her destination is England, where she will join her
sister, who has been behind an apron ever since the
war began. The Symon boys are mostly in the navy.
There’s no trifling about this household.
The Cutlacks, of Renmark, have had word that
their writer-son, who was wounded in Belgium, lias
been passed as fit for service again. He is with the
howitzers.
A Fair at Austral Gardens last Saturday, with
Mrs. Gavin Gardner and Mrs. A. A. Scarfe as organ-
isers, in aid of the French Red Cross, was followed
by a balance-sheet that must be almost unique. The
takings for the three hours were £llO ; the ex-
penses, under ss. Incidentally, the Consul for
France dropped the information that there are more
than 600 hospitals in his sorely-smitten country, all
“filled to overflowing.”
Corporal Paul Teesdale Smith lias won the D.C.M.
He was articled to Josiah Symon before leaving
here. His elder brother was killed at Gallipoli.
Alan, the only surviving son of the late James
Gordon, S.M., is to marry Lorna, daughter of the
late Edward Simms. Young Gordon, a nephew of
the Judge, is a signaller with the 43rd Battalion.
Both his brothers 'were killed at Gallipoli.
The Galways returned from Melbourne on Tues-
day, and on Thursday his Ex. opened the Naval, Red
Cross and Military show in the Exhibition. The
various exhibits included a loan collection of war
relics and other curios—among them the Kaiser’s
christening robe.
News has come through that Lieut. G. S. neinicke
died of wounds in France on Septembei o. c
another only son that didn’t wait for exemption.
Professor Rennie has heard that his nephew, Lieut.
Cyril, son of Dr. E. G. Rennie, of Sydney, has also
been killed.
Municipal elections are dreary affairs, as a rue,
but the contests for the City Council at the end ol
the year will be decorated by two women candi-
dates, Miss A. Hornabrook and Miss Amy lomkinsou
having- been asked by the Women’s Non-Party Poli-
tical Association to butt in.
Monteflore, the old Chief Justice's former home,
is haunted. After the Paul Joseph fiasco it was sold
to Mr. Zed, of Mount Gambia-. On Thursday he
sold to someone else, and on Friday the someone
else sold to someone else. The name of the latest
purchaser hasn’t transpired, but he is a “city com-
mercial magnate.’’ Whoever gets the place has the
pick of North Adelaide. And the city and the leafy-
plain, looked on from the North Adelaide hill, make
a very beautiful panorama.
The Adelaide Camera Club’s annual show exhibits
a marked decline in the fashion of playing flicks
with a photo, till it looks like a sepia, or a pio-
cess" engraving, or anything but what it is. 1 he
Pictorial Workers of Vie. and the Photo. Society of
N.S.W. have sent large batches of work, showing
rather more enterprise than the productions of S.A.
P. 11. Williams, the local Club’s lion, sec., has the
champion picture, “Glenelg from the Sandhills.
Perhaps the brightest feature in the show is a
Selected Area competition. Everyone had to take
two subjects, one water and the other land, -on or
about the north bank of the Torrens, above the Oval
but below the Zoo. It must do competitors and
public good to realise the beauty-spots there are
to be found right within the city. Some of the
woodland effects might have been miles away from
all. bricks-and-mortar. Vice-president Davidson pro-
duced the winning pair of views.
Paul Dnfault padded out several times to
the Show Ground, in spite of the rain. The
silvery songster just loves pigs and sheep
and cattle. When he was in Brisbane there
was an agricultural show under his hotel
window, and he called on the animals every
morning after breakfast. He and his brother
own a farm near Montreal, where they
grow maple sugar as well as pigs. A maple
tree runs sugar for three weeks, and some-
times four, after it is cut, and these bache-
lors used to have parties and make toffee-
candy and other sweet somethings and
nothings while the sugar ran. What is the
fa re to Canada ?
Paul Dufault has taken on some songs
by Clifford Boanas, a young Melbourne com-
poser. He sang “A Glance” at bis last
Melbourne concert. It is a sweet drawing-
room trifle about the damage done by grey
eyes. Boanas supplies ' both words and
music. The whole ditty comes from the
soul of the composer and enters into Paul’s,
soul to speak.
The Melba Scholarship consists of two
years’ free tuition at the Albert-street Con-
servatorium, with personal supervision by
the song-queen. Entrance fee is a guinea, and
young songbirds can get full particulars from
business-manager Leslie Bruford.
“Bof” is a baron. Tenor Napoleon re-
ceived last week the news of the death of
his brother, Lieut.-Colonel Baron Boft'ard-
Coquat, . a retired officer of the 11th Kegi-
ment of Chasseurs, and officer of the Legion
of Honor. He was wounded at the begin-
ning of the war and did not return to ser-
vice. But our old friend refuses to be called
“Baron,” though he will hold the title for
his nephew—a lieutenant of hussars. The
thing is only a shadow now, but it has a
sentimental value to the French family.
To help the Repertory Club, a dramatic
and musical recital will be given by Nellie
Billings and Maud Grantham on Saturday
evening, October 14, at The Playhouse. You
can get in for a shilling.
Actor-manager Bert Bailey is seriously ill
and an understudy is roaring his lines in
“On Our Selection,” at the King’s. Poor old
Dad Rudd, suddenly attacked by violent
inflammatory pain, was in the charge of
nurses and doctors at time of writing.
The Reps, (not the Parliamentarians)
were attacking “Before the Dawn” at The
Playhouse all last week in front of rain#
thinned audiences. Melba dropped in to one
performance (she takes a vivid interest in
all Playhouse affairs), and, after looking
over the balcony at the empty seats, hissed
something in French. A Frenchman at her
elbow said it was pithy, colloquial and apt
—but he assures me there is no polite Eng-
lish equivalent.
Bertha Merfield has been murally deco-
rating the new part of the Vienna Cafe for
the last two months. The job is 36 feet one
way and 18 feet the other, so the artist has
had some mountaineering.
A Victorian Artists’ “smoker” labored
along like a traction-engine at the Eastern
Hill galleries on Thursday night. The in-
coming guests secured the best chairs they
could, and stayed in them like sacks of flour
all the evening, while good music poured
over them from the platform. President
Montgomery wore a festive air and his lady
a rich Egyptian shawl, and they both did
their best to make the gathering move round
and Boherae, Paula McCarthy, in lovely
white clothes, played her violin while Connie
Johnstone, in strawberry pink, attended to
the accompaniments. Carrie Haase then
appeared in a startling frock of paddy-green
frills, garlanded with pink roses, and re-
cited an evening-paper tragedy about a girl
named Francesca, who allowed her lover.
Paola. to murder her. Even that didn t
excite the sedate company. During au
interval a number of listeners actually
weighed anchor and steamed into an
adjoining room, where they looked at pic-
tures whilst hoping for coffee. The corridor
walls were lined with the light efforts of
the artistic youngsters. Hut the oldsters
seemed to prefer architectural plans,
sketches for cathedrals and competitive
designs for the Federal City.
At least one good patriotic work is being
assisted by that exceedingly genteel concern,
the Ladies’ Work Association, of the Block.
The LAY.A. offers encouragement and facili-
ties to the Lonely Soldiers’ Union, by which
any kluxkied stranger in Melbourne may take
afternoon-tea with a perfectly-staid member
of the union. It’s a highly-respectable idea,
and an immense improvement on the un-
authorised pursuit of the lonely soldier by
the young thing in decorated boots and a
neck-to-knee street-costume. She always ex-
pects tlie lonely one to do the entertaining.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
>sllll going sir
—\
/
/ %
\ y\a^ — "~ a ~~r s: v
S
X.
' %
/
/XX
y 4 ytyyfyy
/fYy\ / v
/
\
/ /
A
*
V,
>S!
!W
/. \
K
“v
1
S
4-1
5^
3
y*
f*
s
7/
-^f
!
%
k
v s\^
SX
EOs
i\
. > J
Stj
(Jen*.
/
4*5/,
p/cr®*
if.
z*n
fy>
X
A
\
* \
o fficer (Egyptian Service) : “I’m going to tell our C.O. there's a General
come to see him/''
Johnnie Walker: “What! me a General ?
Officer : “Yes! General Favourite!”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd.. Scotch Whisky Distillers, KTLMAKNOCK, SCOTLAND.


Catarrh
of Intestines
and
atuw
Of all Chemists,
1/3, 2/9, 4/6.
Angier’s Emulsion reaches the lower
intestine without being altered by the acids
of the stomach. It exercises its soothing,
lubricating, anti-fermentative properties
throughout the entire digestive tract.
That is why it is so valuable in bowel
[ disorders. It soothes and cleanses the
mucous membrane, allays irritation, inflam-
mation, catarrh, ulceration. It restores
proper tone to all the digestive functions,
Angier’s has proved its val e in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE,
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney
o
“Kina
George IV
WHISKY
n
The TOP NOTCH Scotch
ABSOLtTTELYIT
ABORIGIN-
ALITES
“Askari” : Re Jack Sommers’s entry of the
camel for the buckjumping stakes (B. 13/4/’l6).
We won’t have it here in the Australian Camel
Corps, somewhere in Africa. Most of us had our
first camel ride while in Mena Camp, yet when we
were in training for this corps at Abbassieh I saw
only two spills, though it was the season when bull
camels are extraordinarily vicious, or are supposed
to be. The camel buck is not nearly so difficult to
sit as the buck of a fine spirited Nor’-West Aus-
tralian colt when he is out for a fight. That is the
buck which only the very best nerve and the finest
hand can beat. A bolting camel is far harder to
sit than a bucking ditto. A bulling beast takes
some holding and swerves like the very devil. We
do not use nose pegs here as the Afghans do in Aus-
tralia. The peg is a most effective deterrent, but
cruel. We have to do our best with a clumsy head-
stall ; and although the rider can pull the beast’s
head round till the nose nearly touches the hump,
yet he will keep going, swinging his carcase in such
a way that even the most experienced riders are
black and blue at the end of the run, which may
last for a couple of hours if the animal be fresh.
For a contrary; pernickety, moody, uncomfortable,
A'icious, dirty, odorous brute let me back a bull
camel; but his best buck is not in it with that of
the Australian quadruped. Incidentally a fortune
awaits the inventor of a decent camel saddle. I
believe the one we use is a German invention about
two decades old. It’s a horror.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: A cow belonging to farmer
Pratley, of George’s Plains (N.S.W.), gave birth to
a couple of calves, each of which bore a similar
earmark to that of the mother. If it isn’t a double-
barrelled coincidence, what’s the’explanation?
THE ANNUAL SOUL BATH.
SEMI-WOWSER: “Have you been converted this year yet?”
“Bad Australian” : Out for a day's shoot-
ing during Holy Week I came across a half-breed
South American about 10 years old mounted on a
wiry little pingo and armed with a bamboo about
15ft. long, to the small end of which was attached
a horsehair arrangement built on the plan of a
’possum-snare. While I was wondering what kind of
a game this was intended for, the boy wheeled his
pingo and started riding round in a gradually
decreasing circle. Suddenly he swept the grass with
his pole, and lo! there was a fine plump partridge
dangling in the snare. In answer to a 10-6ent bit
the lad assured me that when man or to
circumnavigate a partridge it squats in the grass
keeping its face towards the navigator as he goes
around. It is so intent on its job that it doesn't
notice the gradual approach of the enemy until it is
too late. The wily hunter assured me further that
he rarely missed a bird, and that a good day’s bag
ran to 15 or 20.
“A. 8.” : I had a heavy draught horse that
was a champion jibber. This is how I settled his
hash. I hitched him to a dray, aboard which was a
cargo of about scwt. of stone. I took the bit out of
his mouth and left him in the paddock, adding
weight to the load daily till he found himself draw-
ing some two tons around in search of food. That
settled it.
“Bag” : “Billy T.’s” description of black-
smith Jean’s coffin of kerosene tins (B.
10 /8 / ’ 16) reminds me of some peculiar corpse-
covers I’ve met. Out in the spinifex plains east of
Laverton (W.A.), and a week’s camel ride from the
nearest pub, we collided one morning with a highly
variegated smell. It led us to all that was left of
an old prospec tor. The only coffin we could give him was
made of a couple of corn bags. On the Einaslcigh-
Georgetown (N.Q.) Cobb and Co. coach an infant
was born and celebrated the occasion by dying-..
They buried him by the wayside in the coaehdriver’s
biggest billy can. Hurrying along a gloomy jungle
path in Papua I surprised a native funeral. A big,
bewhiskered buck strode in the lead carrying the
defunct, portmanteau fashion. The body was that
of a youngster, . and it was swathed in a shroud of
white beaten bark, wound tightly, with a long, thin
liana of lawyer-cane finished off amidships to form
a handle. Poor old Max Assmann, pioneer trader,
recruiter and planter, of Papua, suddenly died in
an old flat-bottomed ark in which he was battling
along the reefs. His body was sent adrift in a
broken native canoe. As far as I know he made no
complaint.
* * * #
“Nick Bottom” : The ironbark mentioned
by “X.Y.” (B. 24/8/’l6) is not the only eucalypt
suffering from insect pests in the north-east corner
of N. S. Wales. The red-gums in several parts of
the Richmond River district are in a similar plight.
Every alternate year, with the regularity of a
summer thirst, the earth vomits myriads of tiny
brown cicadas. These attack the gum saplings in
close formation, and the casualties would satisfy
even W. Ilohenzollern. I have witnessed three of
these visitations, and, as the pest is more numerous
each time, the hope that a parasite will adjust
Nature’s balance flickers feebly.
“THERE WAS A YOUNG,” ETC.
COLLECTOR : “No, rent again! Why, isn’t your old man working — oh, been drunk
again?”
MRS. SMITH (in tears,): "No sir, it isn’t that One er them—them Limericks has got
’ini down.”
“Verdad”-: The recent par. (B: 7/9/T6)
by “Bad Australian” about the Australian miners
in Bolivia reminds me of what happened there when;
a crowd of . Fenians got together. The fun occurred
at a gold-mine a long day’s ride from the famous
Llallagua Tin Mine. The manager was an Austra-
lian and he had collected a wild gang of “bhoys”
around him. One evening, after having a few
drinks, they found time hanging heavily on their
hands, so strolled up to the Indian village near-by
and set fire to it. Next day the police arrived, but
were persuaded, on seeing everybody at the mine
armed, to return to Uncia, the chief town of the
district. A detachment of military next started out
to arrest the Irish. They were hospitably wel-
comed and loaded with liquor. While they were
enjoying themselves the miners quietly collected all
their rifles and then urged the soldiers to “get to
hell out of it.” A few days later the B’enian leader
rode into Uncia, saying that the whole Bolivian
army could not take him, but that he was coming
in of his own free will, He walked right into the
gaol, where he lived for a fortnight as the honored
guest of the town. Everybody brought him food
and liquor and there was always a select party in
his cell entertaining him. He soon got the tip from
the police to “escape,” but being half-drunk he
refused, in a spirit of bravado, to leave. Then
headquarters at La Paz, the capital, heard of the
matter and got busy. They took him away to a
real gaol, where he lived a devil of a life, having
very little to eat and herding amongst the lowest of
the low, until he got both smallpox and pneumonia.
I never heard the end of the episode.
* * * *
“Tiaki” : I know that the editor of one of
Maoriland’s biggest newspapers has had many a
feed of huhu or turuja (woodgrub), as it is more
generally known. Myself, when young, did eagerly
frequent the kahikatca log and dig out the tunga,
and it is not too bad, either. 1 did not eat the
head because it is hard and because it brings on
toothache—at least, so says Ilenare. That’s why
he calls toothache nilio tunga. Twenty-five years
ago, in the Bay of Islands and other parts, I was
compelled to eat of the following menu: Dry shark,
octopus, kaanga kopiro (rotten maize), kotero (rot-
ten potatoes done up like rissoles and baked), kai
ota (raw fish), paua (the sea-ear, tough as a braised
boot), rito nikau in pig-fat ( rito, the centre-shoot
of the nikau tree), baked spuds dipped in honey
(not bad when you’ve been two days without a feed)
and many other unusual things. When the spud
crop failed Ilenare ate everything possible, and
many of him went into the bush and took his chance,
devouring anything that grew or flew. It was an
exciting life, and Henare-did not know whether the
next day might mean food or funeral.
“Toby C.”: “Rag” (B. 14/9/T6) knows
a good thing when he smells it. The man who turns
up his nose at kangaroo rat, roasted, baked or
curried, should dine 'constantly at the Australia or
Menzies,’ for the bush has nothing better to offer
him. Some years ago when I was doing a sub-
terranean turn at the old Shepherd and Murphy bis-
muth show on the Speck, kangaroo rat was a luxury
IN TOPHET.
NOTNOICUS: “Who’s the perspiring one?”
KNOWACUS: “A Hun who claims that der
Faderland is going to smash England
AFTER THE WAR.”
until over-use killed its popularity. My last decent
feed of rat was on that same field at Larry Foley’s
camp. Larry always had rat on the board when a
good “school” was expected. He was a grand cook,
and when he wanted to be grander than usual he
ratted. Call it mock-partridge or something, and
the city feeders would eat it like asparagus.
(Continued, on page 24J
THE WAY OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He kept her well. Drink was his only joy,
His one sweet consolation and his food.
She thought herself a martyr. No employ
Had turned her head. She fretted o'er her “boy,”
And drove him to use words both harsh and rude.
But not to her! From that he always shrank.
She was too dear to shock ; so inward rage
Consumed him quite, until he drank and drank,
And was as happy as a brimming tank.
She pleaded with him when he reached that stage.
Now she had dried that honorable soul,
And made him take a vow without a flaw
To keep his lips right off the flowing bowl.
I thought him trapped—but, Lord! he found a
hole!
Last night he sucked his whisky through a straw !
A.s.w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Appreciation by
Count Filippini,
Principal Baritone with the Gonsalez Grand Opera Co.
now appearing with such success in Sydney.
Grand Opera House,
Adelphi Theatre,
September 4, 1916.
Signor G. W. Hean,
Farmacista.
Non posso fare a ineno di lodare
la sua Hean’s Essence e Cough Dia-
monds per tenere sempre la gola
in ordine e preventare raflfreddori
die a noi artisti sono molto noisi e
certe volte fatali. Ne tengo sempre
una quantita con me, e di tutti i
rimedi provati devo ammetere che
Hean’s Essence e le pastiglie Hean’,
mi hanno dato piu soddisfazione di
tutti e la raccomendero a tutti i
miel compagni d’arte con grande
piacere.
Salutando la.
Mi credo,
CONTE FIEIPPINI EKCOEE.
The English Translation of Count
Eilippini’s appreciation is as fol-
lows :
I do not know how to say enough
in praise of Hean’s Essence and
Cough Diamonds for keeping the
throat in good order and preventing
colds, which to us artists are so
troublesome and often disastrous.
I always keep a supply with me,
and of all the remedies I have tried,
I must admit that Hean’s Essence
and Cough Diamonds have given me
the most satisfaction. I shall recom-
mend them to all my fellow artists
with great pleasure.
(I greet you.)
Believe me,
Yours gratefully,
COUNT HERCULES FIEIPPINI.
m
COUNT HERCULES FILIPPINI.
A Bottle of HEAN’S ESSENCE, costing 2/- (by post 2/3), produces a pint of
ready-to-use mixture —as much as you can get of ordinary remedies for 12/-.
Despite its cheapness, the experience of thousands of users has proved conclusively
that money cannot buy a better medicine.
Obtainable from all leading chemists and stores, or direct from the manufacturer
G. W. HEAN, Chemist, 4th Floor, 178 Castlereagh Street (near Park Street),
Sydney.
Hean’s Cough Diamonds
i (medicated with Hean’s Essence)
are for those who do not need a large supply of cough mixture.
THEIR PRICE IS 9d, PER BOX.
“Nothing” Suits, "Tussore” Shirts and
Panama Hats —at The LEVIATHAN.
“Nothing” Suits are as cool as an Ocean Breeze. They are light in weight
and have “nothing” in the shape of padding or lining—hence their nauie.
“Nothing” Suits are skilfully tailored in the style shown, from strongly-woven
Tussorette, which does not shrink, but improves
with washing and ironing. They can be had in
plain or striped Tussorette, in Biscuit. Straw and
Stone shades. Wear a “Nothing” Suit, and enjoy
Summer Comfort.
Made to
“Nothing” Suits
(3 garments)
Coat & Trousers
(2 garments)
Trousers only
(Suits measuring
Ready-to-wear, measure.
27/6 37/6
25/- 35/-
9/6 11/6
r 42-inch Chest, 2/6
:tra.)
Write for Free Patterns of
“Nothing*’ Suitings and
“ Tussora ” Shirtings.
“TUSSORA” SHIRTS. —Let us make you some
“Tussora” Skirts to wear with the “Nothing” Suit.
“Tussora” looks just like Tussore Silk —'but it
wears better by far, and retains its silky lustre
after repeated washing.
Can be had with unshrinkable neck-bands, and
soft double cuffs, or plain wrist-bands to button.
You have your choice of three collar styles—■
Detachable Tennis; Detachable Double; or
Attached Tennis Collar. Shirts have “split” sleeves
and sleeve-length adjusters. c* i-t-t
(With Collar to match). O/ 11
PANAMA HATS. —We have a tremendous stock
of these cool Summer Hats in various shapes—
with narrow and wide brims.
State size and width of brim when ordering.
JAPANESE PANAMAS. —Extra light weight,
25-inch brims, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
WHITE BLEACHED TOYO PANAMAS—
-15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
REAL NATIVE PANAMAS. —Made in South
America, can be folded without crushing—
-25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 33/-
L
Sk
\
——-
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
HAVE YOU BOUGHT YOUR HANDY WORKER ?
If not, it will pay you to Order it from your Storekeeper now.
More than 2000 have been put into use throughout Australia since Ist January last, and they are pronounced, by all,
the most marvellous and practical Combined Tool ever devised.
The Stewart Handy Worker
combines several most useful tools frequently used by Farmers,
Car-owners, Mechanics or those interested in a Home Workshop.
Bought separately, an equipment of the same workmanship as the
Stewart Handy Worker would cost you £lO and occupy a lot of
space in your shop that you need for other things. You can attach
it in a few minutes firmly and securely to any bench or table, and
put on or take oft the tools as you need them.
IT COMPRISES:—
A Strong and Powerful Vise, with steel-faced
jaws.
An Improved Pipe Vise.
A good, substantial Anvil.
A Cutting Hardie.
A 3-speed Drill Press, with 2 Drills.
A Corundum Grinding Wheel] with Chisel
and Tool Rest.
What You can do with it:
Be your own repair man.
Your own engineer.
Make plumbing repairs, keep knives, axes
and all other cutting tools in good work-
ing trim.
Repair almost any kind of Machine or other
Outfits that you have.
“It makes all jobs a pleasure, because
with it # can execute them easily and well. ”
A STRONG AND POWERFUL VISE
ANVIL
DRILLS
CAN BE ADJUSTED FOR
TWO SPEEDS
niis««
llßlii
'
:
“S:“
,
i
J
A '
I
: 1 :
l m s
CUTTING HARDIE
PIPE VISE
CORUNDUM
GRINDING WHEEL
Of the thousand sold not one Stewart Handy Worker has ever been pronounced unsatisfactory. With the exception of a few wearing parts, which
can be replaced at a trivial cost, it will last forever. If you do not like yours, you may return it and your money will be refunded.
The Price is only £3 15s. f.o.r. any State Capital.
For Sale by leading Storekeepers, Ironmongers and Providers throughout Australia.
WRITE TO US FOR FUEL PARTICULARS AND NAME OF YOUR NEAREST DEALER.
Weight Boxed 1001 b.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED.
134 Sussex St., Sydney. 486 Collins St., Melbourne. Hughenden, Queensland.


wits
UNSEfDOILMEA[
H
MEGGITT L T . D
PARRAMATTA
FARMERS!
Feed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
Meggitt Ltd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
PEL.ACO
tr
Illl
Pu’ling your tie through a DOUBLE
COLLAR is easy when you wear
m
COLLARS
It will glide serene’y between the folds,
because the Manufacturers know that
you will want to put a tie through them
- AND CUT THEM ACCORDINGLY.
Four.fold, 6d. Linen-faced, 9d.
Superfine Linen-faced, 1/-
All Mercers
Made in Australia
PELACO
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
CELEBRATED
S 3
*
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young l —hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. Tt is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—-four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane. [1
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
“II.711.”: “Vigilans’s” remarks on
“Wheelbarrow Joe’’ Bagsliaw are a bit astray. Joe
turned up at Newcastle Waters, and expressed liis
intention of getting over the dry stage from Hin-
gacootra to Daly Water, or from the first-named
place to Bingacootra (Yellow Waterholes). Grainger,
manager of the “Waters,” tried to dissuade him, but
without result, and the wanderer left with his
vehicle and reached Hingacootra, 25 miles north of
the station, where there was plenty of water. At this
point he evidently made up his mind to go west to
Bingacootra, distant about 90 miles, in preference to
taking the northern track to the Daly, some 80 miles,
lie got over the distance all right, but when next
seen he was lying dead in the shade of his “fly” with
a .32 Winchester alongside him. Not Rose but
Arthur Muggleton, westward-bound with horses for
tiie Kimberleys, and Flemming, a small holder on the
Victoria River, found poor Joe’s remains and gave
them decent burial. I was with Rose at the time
Joe died or shot himself (the latter is most pro-
bable). We were overlanding cattle from Ord River
to Charleville.
* * * *
“Dead Finish”: What appears to be
Nature's method of fallowing the country can be
seen on the Downs about the Flinders River (N.Q.).
Although there was the normal rainfall during the
wet season numbers of paddocks showed no sign of
the station-man’s stand-by—the Mitchell grass. In
its place came up rubbish of all sorts, including a
prolific crop of Scsbania pea. All these weeds
speedily died off, and great cracks have opened up
in the black soil, into which all the rubbish will
shortly be blown to act as fertiliser. Next season
should see these particular downs well covered again.
This failure of good grass occurs periodically, and
seems, like droughts, to be a natural feature of the
country.
“A.G.M.”: Cannot something be done to
prevent the wholesale slaughter of gillbirds in N. S.
Wales ? Here, on the South Coast, these birds have
been destroying a tree parasite, in caterpillir form,
and are evidently one of Nature’s tree preservers.
Nevertheless millions have already fallen victims to
the guns of “sports.” The gillbirds arrive in these
parts when the ironbarks are in blossom and, I
believe, annihilate the insect-vandal referred to by
“X.Y.” (B. 24/8/’l6).
» * * *
“Wiremu” : I thought the old chief was
selling me a pup when he told me the circumstances
under which the pipis (shellfish) had deserted their
vast bed in the Bay of Plenty (M.L.). One night,
he said, a native woman gave birth to a child on
the sand, and since then not one of the shellfish had
been seen there. I asked a wise old R.C. priest-
missionary if he had heard the yarn. He hadn’t,
but he had seen the end of a migration of pipis.
They came close in shore with the tide, he told me,
turned on their edges into bed and went to sleep.
I forgot to ask the old man whether they snored.
* * * *
“Lou”: Here’s the new way of dealing
with mallee shoots. Instead of slashing them clown
level year after year, just nip the heads off so that
the vegetation will keep alive, but no more. Come
down on the second year’s instalment in the same
manner. By the time the third batch appear
things are getting crowded. Stroll round with the
slasher, and the whole lot will choke on the stumps.
Burn your next stubble, and any dry stems the
plough and harrows have left will go up in the blaze.
MAKING SURE.
PARSON : “Are you not afraid to live here
all alone, Miss Smith?”
MISS SMITH : “Well, you see, Mr. Judd, I
put my trust in Providence. And,
besides, I have Fido.”
MODELS.
ARTIST' MODEL (meeting her artist accidentally): “Oh, Mr. Dauber, am I sacked?”
“Werrimee”: Ever heard of Tizzard, the
hermit of the snows? He inhabits (or lately did) a
lonely one-roomed hut amid the snow-clad peaks of
Kosciusko, under the bleak Perisher Range. A very
lean, cross-eyed, undersized man, he makes a living
fossicking among the mountain gullies. He appeared
cheerful enough when I saw him, and, unlike most
hatters, was pleased to meet the party, as it was only
on his rare visits to the Hotel Kosciusko and Jinda-
byne that he ever saw a human being. His log hut
was three miles from the nearest road. But he didn’t
mind that; he found all the companionship he needed
in hooks and his pipe. Through the summer he
fossicked for gold along the mountain streams; in
autumn he stoi’ed up pi-ovisions and fuel, and got in
a few fresh books; and in the long winter he was a
snowed-up prisoner. I have not noticed his name
among the casualties yet, so he is probably still
entrenched at the old address.
*. * * *
“Ivonini” : What are the ins and outs of
the “fire walking” of the Fijians and other South Sea
islanders? Recently at Aitutaki, Cook Island, brown
brother prepared an oven measuring about 30ft. by
20ft., dumped in a great quantity of fire-
wood and piled on top about a ton of
stones. After nine hours of cooking the
stones were declared ready for the prom-
enade, and three barefooted natives, after
invoking sundry residents of Shadow-
land, walked slowly backwards and for-
wards over the red-hot metal. The audi-
ence, which included the Resident Agent
and other whites, was invited to make
itself at home in the furnace. “All you
have to do,” explained the boss, “is to
look straight ahead, turning your eyes
neither to the left nor to the right nor
behind —-behind particularly.” The offer
was rushed by men, women and children, some of the
women carrying infants in their arms, but not a
blister was raised amongst the lot. \V nat is the
solution —faith, or just corns?
“Maph.su”: “Professional Gardener” is
right in saying that rust, when first found on wheat,
is in the first of three distinct periods of its life-
history (B. 14/9/’l6). This primary period is
known as the Uredo stage. In the next stage, at
which it arrives on the wheat later in the season,
and which entirely supplants Uredo, is the Telento
stage, the spores of which (telento spores) cannot
attack wheat, whereas the spores of the Uredo stage
(uredo spores) can. The telento spores, however,
infect the Berberis plant; and here the fungus
passes through its third stage. The spores now pro-
duced cannot infect the Berberis, but they attack
the next season's wheat, and the cycle begins again.
This is what happens in England. In Australia there
is no Berberis plant, hut conditions are such that
the spore in the Telento stage, though it occurs,
never germinates, while the Uredo spoi'es are capable
of undergoing a period of quiescence and then attack-
ing the fresh wheat dii-ectly. Hence “Professional
Gardener’s” remedy of wiping out the Berberis is
rather up the spout as regards this continent, and is
only likely to work in England for a short: time. For
if the parasite can thrive in Australia without the Ber-
beris plant to act as a second host, there is no
apparent reason why it should not adapt itself to
similar conditions in England in the event of
Berberis being eliminated.
* * * *
“Quondong” : The best thing for replacing
hair on a prad's knees after prayer is burnt leather
and kitchen fat made into a salve and applied each
day until whiskers begin to sprout.
“A. Borig”: I have been waiting to hear
of a really old horse, but none came within ages of
the one I knew. His name was Parramatta, and he
was a bob-tailed roan, owned by the late Joseph
Kaye, of Canberra. This old steed died, I think, in
the late ’7o’s at the age of 52- When he was well
over 40 his owner used to drive him to Queanbeyan,
about six miles, in 40 to 60 minutes. In the same
district and about the same time an old buggy
or carriage horse named Rodney, owned by the late
Rev. P. G. Smith, was mercifully helped to the
happy hunting-grounds at the ripe old age of 35.
• * * *
“Eddyson”: Talking about those shiftless
Australians, permit me to introduce Andrew Bower.
Andrew was a married man, but his wife was so
small and so silent she may be set aside as of no
consequence. Andrew owned a strawberry farm at
the Outlook, Hungry Hills, Gippsland. Running a
strawberry plantation on these liills is a sedentary
occupation. Once the strawberries are planted they
do all the running. In the intervals between gather-
ing crops Bower just squatted on the rocks, and
watched time go by. His house was a stoutly-built,
paling skillion perched precariously on the side of the
hill. You could not build any other way at Outlook,
because the whole country-side sloped precipitately.
But the domicile was all right till the night of the
awful storm, following seven days of rain, when the
hills got such a soaking that their hold on the huge
rocks with which they were studded became pre-
carious, and two mighty boulders slipped their moor-
ings below Andy’s front door, and went plunging
through the bush, leaving a dangerous cavity towards
which Bower’s home betrayed a slight leaning.
“Better look out!” said Rollings, passing two days
later. “She’ll slip agin.” Andy did look out. He
sat on his front step, and looked out for seven days.
Then about 30 square perches let go, shifting the
cavity much nearer and giving the house a more
strained expression. “Better look out!” said Roll-
ings. “Mind, I’m tillin’ yeh. Better look out!”
“Tha’s all right,” Bower replied. “She’ll do fer a
week or two.” That night there was another fall,
which left Andy’s north-east corner post overhanging
the chasm.” “Why don't yeh look out, man?” said
Rollings. Andy shook his head. “She’ll be all
light,” he said. After the next fall of rain another
hundred tons or so of earth cut loose, and the whole
of the front of Bower’s house was overhanging. All
the neighbors within seven miles went to look at it
on the Sunday. They all echoed Rollings’s advice to
Andy. “Pull ’er down, ’n’ put ’er ’long the ’ill a
bit,” said Rollings. “She’ll be all right,” Bower
replied. It was early on a Friday morning, and
Rollings was going down for supplies. As he approached
Bower’s house it seemed to him that the skil-
lion was clinging to the hill with desperate claws on
the edge of calamity. Suddenly as he looked the
earth under the back stumps gave way, and Bower’s
house started down hill. The first movement was
comparatively slow; then the skillion ploughed its
way, still upright but rocking frightfully, its win-
dows wide with consciousness of its desperate plight.
The house finished with a long slide out on to a flat
PEACE, BLESSED PEACE.
FOND WIFE : “The landlord teas here to-day.
I gave him, the rent and showed him the
baby.”
THE BRUTE (fed up): “Why the devil didn't
you give him the baby and show him
the rent?”
rock from which the boulders had skidded, and there
it came to a standstill, more erect than before, more
securely based, not a shingle out of place, the old
iron chimney still firmly tethered to the west end.
As Bollings gazed speechless in the presence of a
miracle the right-hand window opened, and Andy
Bower thrust out a tousled head and yawned. He
(aught the eye of Rollings. “What did I tell yeh ?”
he said. “She’s all right!’’ And he went back to
bed.
THE LIMIT OF FANCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, let us dream! Since all the world is
dreams—-
Even the dingy room in which we sit—
Why, let us take the best things for our themes,
And while we hold the hour make most of it.
Not that it matters much, because your eyes
Could not seem brighter even did they shine
’Mid life’s most splendid pleasures; to the wise
It matters not what cup contains the wine.
So, let us dream. Come, drink the wine that glows
So redly in the jewelled cup you hold.
I know ’tis beer ; but while love’s fancy flows
Let it be wine, and china cups be gold!
Beyond yon velvet cui’tain’s purple drape
See how the sun is shining on the scene —-
On wateis blue that gleam by beach and cape,
And on the lawn that, nearer, stretches green.
So fair our prospects, oh, our love may sail
From grassy shores, exploring beach and bay.
Of course I know this street is like a gaol;
But never mind the dirt across the way.
See how the spring has garlanded the trees,
And how the birds with songs their arbors cheer.
Love’s music gently murmurs on the breeze;
Come, let us drink to life.... Why, where’s the
beer ?
Alas, ’tis Sunday! How our visions go !
I could imagine gardens smiling near,
A home of splendor, heaven itself; but, oh,
I can’t imagine one more glass of beer.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


m
LLI
■
s.
w
z
<1
5
0).
3*
S I
£ I
m
v
il:--' li
Mis
’
rik - 'Jt i ™
11
, W
ijf
4«&»»
• -«
■A,
i 3@Bsr
- £4H • llpr*
wfcii*ii*ii»*i
131
> ‘
Ml
KJH
is in
mm
tMim
I
/
■
HI
iiii
Sl®
i
.
9
PH
• i
■n
I
l*fc ;
I
■
■
l
I
* V
Hi
PimdM
' V
kSs®l«
Hi :</S
!
: : ■ IMlllli ;v,...
M P^V‘
* @1 JH 1 1 till
p H
;.>:'. .;S SSSfIMSIS-'
i>CX
*'d
7w, ■
.J. ; , r ;.iSSf |
S/l* .
XX
Chocolates de Luxe,
1916 Marks the Beginning of a New Industry in Australia,
HITHERTO, the only high-grade Chocolates offered to the
Australian public have been imported from the U.S.A.
and Europe. Most of the best foreign brands are
procurable in this country, but it is impossible for a foreign
manufacturer to send the same quality and assortment of
confections to us as would be supplied for home consumption.
The distance we are from Europe and America, together with
climatic conditions, absolutely prohibits this. Furthermore,
m many cases foreign manufacturers find it necessary to delete
several ingredients highly essential in first-grade Chocolates,
in order that they will withstand the journey.
Too many times Chocolates which, when they left the factory
in U.S.A., were the finished product of a clever confisere, are
sold to the Australian public sometimes as long as two vears
later, utterly unfit for consumption.
We have installed a factory here under the control of an
American expert, and it is our aim to offer our patrons only,
tne highest-grade Confectionery, guaranteed fresh and to
contain no preservative.
Our Chocolates are obtainable only from our own Factory, and
are mailed to you on the same day as manufactured. We are
therefore able to dispense entirely with preservative.
We do not supply dealers, for the very obvious reason that we
could not be sure of our products reaching you in the fresh
condition we are so anxious to ensure.
Sold only in RED Boxes,
®/"» 5/-, 6/6, 10/6, 15/- and 25/-
CARRIAQE RAID TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
Styuwf Uiliie/i
162 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Pure as {he
Pesh as (he Rose


School Children
are very liable to catcb
cold. They have to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection—especially when epidemics ct
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can he always Hvliii
of ANXIETY if they have a bottle of
Hearn cs
Bronchitis
Cure
ifi the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a * cold ill at once nip »n ine
tsd” what might otherwise prove to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up—the test will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Golds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W., ' Wellington, N.Z.
2/6
4/6
Double
Size
rfl
A
A
V~fS
*
AM
:•
fl
■os
V
Sk
Xt
J
m
-a
J^cum^tcv-^mm
12
“L HP ” • The stage management ot
“Faust” by the Gonsalez troupe was really
too slipshod. The men in Mhe Soldieis
Chorus” came on without the usual military
band, and stood in a semi-circle, hurling
“Glory and love to the men of old at the
footlights, while the women kept well up
the stage. Henry Bracy, for the William-
son Italian season in 1901, had his soldieis
stationed in groups, with girls gaily dancing
around them. Gilbert King, Musgiove s
stage manager, added a detachment of supeis
marching across the back of the stage.
Colonel Mapleson, in London, always secured
a band of the Guards, and was said to be
rather proud of the lion and unicorn being
carried on the big drum at the head of the
sham German army.
“ Jwosp” : Made his exit just before the
curtain went up on The Big Push, Lionel
Walsh, actor, who started in khaki as a pri-
vate and sported the major’s crown when
he went out: Walsh made a big reputation
in the United States as an actor of “silly
ass” parts; but as soon as Wilhelm sobered
the world he dashed back to London, break-
ing all sorts of contracts in the process, and
grabbed a gun. It was not the first time.
In S’Africa he began as a private and saw
peace declared as a captain.
Enid Bennett, the pretty Westralian girl
who did credit to the Niblo cast here, lias
just started a 10 months’ engagement with
the Thomas. Ince Film Co. in N’York.
“Lookout Man”: Said that Brieux’s
“Damaged Goods” is going on at Sydney
Criterion when Madge Fabian in “Romance ’
has scattered all the payable violets. But
as the gruesome play is being sanctioned as
a social tract, why doesn’t the unselfish
Firm borrow one of the churches and keep
the little Cri. for plain, ungodly, revenue-pro-
ducing purposes ? The forthcoming “Dam-
aged »Goods” mission shows that the J.C.W.
people have been maligned by those who say
they don’t care for Australian drama. Why,
they even care for Australian morals!
H. B. Irving’s son, who wears ttvo stars in
the British Flying Corps, lias captured the
Military Cross for bringing a Foltker to
earth. The Savoy people are going to hand
him a parchment scroll to celebrate the
event. H. 8., bv the way, is a brother-in-
law of the late B. R. Wise, and just now is
doing a revival of Barrie’s “Professor’s Love
Story.”
“S.T.S.” : But why does “Last Old Man,”
sticking up (B. 24/S/’l6) for the Austra-
lian film as against the American, drag the
Yankee abomination, “would stand for
them,” into the Australian language? With
us, to stand-for means “to signify,” or
s'ometimes “to stand-up-for,” but never ‘ to
put-up-with,” for which we already have
the one word “stand.” U.S.A. slang in
Bret Harte’s time was crisp and word-sav-
ing, therefore worth adopting. The modern
brand is word-wasting. A barber will
“wipe off” your chin. (No, not the soap;
the chin.) “Right here” and “right now”
don’t mean any more than “here” and
“now.” The crisp “git” lias dawdled into
“make a get-away.” “Win out” would be
excusable if it meant to get out of difficul-
ties to success, or to win very thoroughly;
but it just means to win. No; the Aus-
tralian public can stand American films all
right, but it can’t stand “for” them.
“Austin Biff”: It happened in one of
those little towns where we had been
trying to honestly make our fares home and
couldn’t. The house receipts had been
divided and we were sitting in the porch of
the local hall discussing the most likely
means of eluding the lodging-house keeper,
when the drunk bumped the door. I opened
up and he tumbled in. “I wanner (hie) bed
and breakfish,” he announced dreamily, put-
ting his hand in his hip-pocket. I smiled
and was about to pass him on, when the
resourceful member of the co. bustled for-
ward. “Bed and breakfast?” he said politely.
“Rather late to book up, but we’ll do it.
Then lie sat down, scribbled something, gave
him a “prop” key and led him down the ill-
lit hall. ITe reappeared in a few moments
smilinsr. “He’s fixed. I put him in the
back dressing-room, told him to ring for
breakfast and locked him in. Here’s the
key.” "What a joke!” someone chuckled.
"Joke be d d,” roared the heavy. “He
paid in advance with this tenner and I’m
getting his change ! Come on, we’ll get it in
Sydney ■!”
A coincidence attaches to “The Man Who
Stayed at Home.” Mrs. Brough in Eng-
land plays the part that her sister,
Emma Temple, played in Australia. By
the way, the name of the hero, Christopher
Brent, had been previously bestowed on the
dirty-dog character in “Peg o’ My Heart.”
People who remember the late Charles
Arnold in “The Professor’s Love Story”
will be interested to hear that 11. B. Irving
intends to revive it in England and play the
part of the elderly scholar who had to be
medically advised that he was suffering from
an attack of Love. It was the most ten-
derly sentimental of Barrie’s comedies, and
Arnold just doted on himself in the name
part. But he never could make it “go big”
at the pay-box.
The Inky Way.
“Harrison O.”: In words no less than
other things do fashions come and go; to
This and That in turn we make oblation;
and those who earn a living on the weary
inky way know overworked expressions can
for months be made to pay. None knows
to-morrow’s fashion, but all journalists to-
day have grasped the value of “co-ordina-
tion.” There’s none to tell who found it
first, or why he did. or how; but ev’ryone
who’s anyone has seized hold of it now, and
at each blessed meeting some absurd, well-
meaning cow gets on his feet and throws
off an oration, and. having taken sides with
Tweedledum or Tweedledee, explains his use-
less viewpoint—“as the thing appeals to
me ” — a nd with a quaint solemnity that's
beautiful to see shows that the pressing-
need’s “co-ordination.” Each chump knows
that the war could very easily be won if
we’d proceed to do what at the first we
should have done —“co-ordinate our efforts" :
in this way we’d beat the Hun —the senti-
ment is sure of approbation. And so they
form committees just to push the jol) along ;
and. Jones thinks he is right, and Smith
and Robinson are wrong; but on one point
are Smith and Tones and Robinson all
strong—the great demand for “close co-ordi-
nation.” And, being thus agreed, they
start a long and fierce debate, anent the
proper means bv which they should co-ordi-
nate, while overworked reporters sit and
glare in silent hate, or bite their fountain
pens in irritation. And each transcribes his
notes with a variety of sighs; then in the
stilly night a thoughtful leader-writer tries
to point out that the movement must be
brought to realise “the need for more com-
plete co-ordination.”
* * * *
Hooray ! After years of tiptoeing around
the subject of “acquired diseases,” the
Aiicus has discovered the foolishness of her
attitude. In one of the daily budgets of
Australian news culled for Anzaes abroad
by Hugh Mahon. Minister for Exjournal
Affairs, there lately appeared the statement
that the Commonwealth Government “will
assist the States in combating certain dis-
eases.” “Rot!” said gran’ma. “Why don’t
you speak plainly V You might mean house-
maid’s knee and clergyman’s sore throat for
all the reader learns to the contrary.” But
before hooraying more than once perhaps
we’d better wait to see if the Argus will
next time herself print it s-y-p-h-i-l-i-s.
* * -X *
Hector Lamond, who has just been shunted
from the management of the Worker, after
20 years’ service, learned the printing trade
on the Carcoar Chronicle when it was
owned by Mrs. iviary Boyle. The lady after-
wards married C. L. Garland, M.L.A. for
the district in which she used to work the
old hand-press.
“Copy Boy”: Melbourne papers have
lately had frequent visits from a small man
with' clay-colored hair and a cigar-ash face.
He calls at some offices two or three times a
week, always with a copy of the current
issue and a request to see the editor. When
informed that the boss is busy counting the
day’s takings or replying to proposals of
marriage from adoring women, he unfolds
his grievance to the editor’s devil. It is
always the same trouble —he has been
grossly libelled and asks for an immediate
withdrawal and apology. At the office of
one high-class journal the other morning he
also demanded the production of the leader-
writer’s body. Jimmy, the guardian of the
stair-head, gave him the soft answer that
turneth away stoush and eventually he
agreed to overlook the matter, but announced
definitely that it any further insulting refer-
ences were made the guilty party would be
shot. The little chap, who is tremendously
in earnest, says his name is Wilhelm Hohen-
zollern. Probably he is twin brother to the
Polite Lunatic who wanted to kill Bronson.
“D.A.”: “Copabella’s” reference (B.
21 /D/MG) to the country mayor who spoke
of a “momentum of the occasion” reminds
me. At Parramatta the captain of the old
volunteer corps was also an alderman. Ins
absence from a council meeting was ex-
plained by the Mayor as being due to the
fact that “Aid. Ferris was away with Ins
corpse.”
“Hamer” : With “Copabella’s” friend who
gave a “momentum of the occasion” (B.
21/9/’IG) please bracket a captain of indus-
try who at a recent Sydney trade picnic
referred scathingly to the people who in
wartime create “intestine strife.”
The jockey had come a* .cropper and the
Adelaide paper explained that “he was
attended to in the casualty-room by Dr. ,
but recovered.”
Hobart Daily Post :
It is impossible for Australia to hold its great
continent if there are not more people, and already
much of its virulent manhood has gone to fight its
battle, and the battle of the Empire, on foreign
fields.
Yes, we’re a poisonous lot. Even the Huns
admit it.
* * * *
Canon Francis Knowles, who departed
from Christchurch (M.L.) recently to solve
the Great Secret, was $6. He was 21 when
he reached M.L. from London, and at once
turned his steps to the Inky Way, becom-
ing first sub-editor of the Lyttelton Times.
A few years later he put down the pen
and, signing on with the Anglican Church,
was ordained priest by Bishop Harper in
1559. It was the first ordination job
that those Gaiters performed. Knowles had
no experience of newspaper work when he
joined the Times, which was then an insig-
nificant weekly published at the Christ-
church port, and the fact that he did not
stick to it long may have been due to the
revolt of his sensitive nature upon finding
himself required to report the first race meet-
ing held in the province.
* * * *
“Quidam” comes to town :
I knew him first on Charters Towers, when that
Northern field had 24,000 inhabitants, most of whom
could stop as many drinks per annum without being
any the worse for it. We were attached to the same
daily, and between intervals of attending to the
desire of the multitude for instruction devoted close
attention to alleviating the ills wrought by drought
upon the systems of pressmen. At that time he affected
the ultra-Bohemian in style, and his manner of saun-
tering down Gill-street in an inelegant Assam-silk
suit, with long hair projecting below a Buffalo Bill
felt hat, and followed by a pack of 10 disreputable
terriers, would have excited more interest in
Sydney than Chidley does. On the Towers, how-
ever, nobody worried about what anyone wore, did
or drank so long as he didn't get in anyone else’s
way. The disreputable office we adorned was a happy-
go-lucky place, where everyone dropped in and fre-
quently invited the staff out for another struggle with
the drought. When we finally .said good-bye one
torrid Christmas Eve, the extraordinary crookedness
of the path and the unhappy predilection of the
gutter for getting in the way are matters that still
stick in my memory. And now I have drifted into
the tomb of a big city daily where I heard he
labored, just to revive old memories. lie was pleased
to see me, but in a placid, benevolent manner, though
the benevolence did not extend to drinks, as it would
have done on the Towers. His appearance had gained
in respectability what it had lost in picturesqueness.
We began to converse, and automatically a slight
seasoning crept into my language. He hurriedly
asked me not on any account to swear, as they might
hear .it in the next room. When I asked, “What the
Hell does it matter if they do?” he said “Hush!” in
such a pained tone that I collapsed. To brace myself
I was about to light up, when he turned his eyes
towards a notice on the wall. It read “Smoking
strictly forbidden.” I stole downstairs, noting that
every hatpeg in the building had a halo hanging to
it, and now I know why righteous respectability alld
deadly dulness are so chronic with the “big” dailies.
* * * *
“Kitty Boyes,” whose name has been
appearing at the foot of some comical
Bulletin blocks, is the handsome girl who
recently married Captain Russell,-Jackson
and whose sister is Mrs. Edward Dyson.
The blocks are photographs of plasticene
models. Some time hack, while rehearsing
for a patriotic pageant, Mrs. Jackson was
thrown from a restive horse, and while
unable to get about amused herself by
modelling her friends. Now she is putting
her casually-discovered talent to profitable
use.
* * * *
“M. L” : Marcus Clarke had more pleasing
little ways of raising money than any other
1.4-0 men I ever knew, and I have had a large
acquaintance among actors. But he always
confessed he was reluctant to borrow money
from a Christian. “I only do it when there
is no available Jew,” he said. However,
the necessary Hebrew was often inacces-
sible. This happened on one occasion when
he met me in Bourke-street. He had just
got me by the buttonhole when Falkner
joined us. Falkner was a writer, too, in-
consequential in that capacity, but with one
virtue that Clarke did not possess—he was
rapid in action. “I say. old man,” he said
at once, “for the love of Heaven lend me
half a sovereign.” Clarke’s grip on my
buttonhole tinned at once. He turned upon
the interloper, he towered over him, flushed
and indignant. “How dare you?” he said.
“How dare you ask for 10 shillings from my
friend here. You know well I can’t spare
it!”
CONTEMPORARY PORTRAITS: RODERIC
QUINN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The glad Australian sun’s a-shine,
Spring riots in the blood like wine;
■For work who would be wishing?
So gaily out with rod and line,
And let us all go fishing!
Pale, punctual clerks to office stream,
They work all day ; they do not seem
To live a life exciting.
But in the poet’s endless dream
The fish are always biting.
He baits his hook with memories,
And wafted by a rhythmic breeze
He drifts on Life’s smooth river,
Proud when upon his hook he sees
A shining stanza quiver.
About his line quaint fancies play ;
Dreams nibble all his bait away
His hook has nothing on it;
But sometimes at the end of day
He lands a silver sonnet.
And though sometimes he catches bream
He drops them back into the stream,
For lovelier things he’s wishing.
If on his hook there hangs a dream
He’s had a good day’s fishing.
I wonder what fine fish he bought
With what his golden dream-fish brought?
Surely there were none sweeter
Than those he in his stanzas caught
Or netted in his metre?
Yet though his fish with joy are placed
Upon our table, sweet to taste,
In these stern days one wishes
No grown man all his hours should waste
Just catching pretty fishes!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THE REJECTED MAKES A DISCOVERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I haven’t got a notion in my head;
I’m minus themes on which to build my verse;
Ideas of any value —all are fled;
So reading-iip’s a necessary curse.
In daily rags and weekly hence I dip,
To And a worthy topic for my muse ;
Not even the advertisements I skip—•
They’re .quite as stimulating as the news.
And this reflection haunts me as I read,
And of fainting ’neath the burden give a hint —
Oh, the good stuff (mine!) rejected!
And the other sort selected —
What yards and .yards of tripe get into print!
VICTORIA.
I. DRYDEN.
MORE LOAFING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The play was long’, the interest nought ,
The clocks had struck 11 P-m.,
When in Act V the “comic” brought __
The warders being drugged pro tern.
Unto the hero in his cell
Chisel and file, and rope as well.
The hero, left alone, commenced
To file the bars and prise the bricks,
The audience had quickly sensed
His imminent escape—did tricks
Like this, though stale, e’er fail to thrill.
The house sat rapt, expectant, still.
The hero paused his brow to mop.
He’d nearly filed one bar through. Teais
Were in his voice. “I dare not stop '
The job,” he moaned, “will take me yeais.
’Twas then a gallery bloke said “Damn !
He’s slowing down —111 miss me tiam.
VICTOIiIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


When the Sun Sets, Light up with
&B<
T-H
Lamps
it
: 1
:
rr
if: -v- ;:f
Hi
1
SIIIMI
1
m m
m i
■»-..>.* wtV*
II
l l^hhl
*• • •••► •■•
kV* *V H
11111
■"•■ -a ■• •-■ ■» • (I
SSil
mm
m
: \
i! ~■■
l|tnMntlo
mm, WMM
0 •;;
m
■■■;.■ .'■■■■■■ '. : ■■.■■■■■
MHI
#
4
Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Morocco Leather
Lady’s Motor Bag, newest style,
with double handle, 10/6.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/6, 20/»«
25/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Sil-
ver-mounted Sewing
Companion, Best-quality
Instruments, in Morocco-leather
Case, 12/6.
'
O/
A. Saunders’ Compact, Folding
Safety Razor, complete with Shef-
field Steel Blade and Leather Case, 2/6.
Extra Blades, 4/6 Dozen.
PERSONAL COMFORTS
A. Saunders’
Shaving Outfit,
complete with Safety
Razor, Brush, Soap
and Mirror, in Solid
Leather Case, 17/6.
A. Saunders shaving Mug,
pure Silver-plated, Hand Engraved
and Burnished, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Leather Collar Box,
Strap and Buckle Fastener.
6in., 6/6; 7in., 7/6; Bin„
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Dressing Case, com-
plete with Toilet Travelling Requisites, in Morocco
Leather Case, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Stud
Box, A 1 Quality, pure
Silver-plated, 8/9.
A. Saunders’
Collapsible
Safety Razor
and Shaving
Brush, complete,
with three Sheffield
Steel Blades in
Solid Nickel Case,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ Special Vacuum
Flask, pint size, Leather-covered Case,
keeps liquid hot or cold 24 hours, 2/9.
Higher grades: Pint, 10/6; Quart, 18/6.
A. Saunders’
Real Ebony Mili-
tary Hair Brush,
Best-q’>alitv Silver,
drawn Bristles, Solid
Silver Shield, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders' liark Green or Red
Leather Writing Folio, fitted with
large-size Blotter and Stationery Pockets,
A. Saunders’ Unbreak-
able Spirit Flask, Nickel
Silver or Gunmetal, 20/-
m
A. Saunders’ Morocco Leather Pocket
Wallet, Solid Silver Mounts, 20/-. Real Hlde >
Steel-lined, Bullet-proof Military Wallet, 12/6.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller, 805-15 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY_
(Opp. Railway Station).
m
m
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-, Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
m
If any illustration appeari- g in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
mm
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over oU
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Meurie
England. Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. DR.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
llow to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2 posted. Thurstons Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana ,l/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/- Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter 1'- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life,, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Picket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
llandyrook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2 Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. Ihe
Yoke by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. SandoaCs Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
m v Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd How TO Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,.
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Paintin.q and Papering, 1/2.
m
ss
■
1
home CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain am
"ua°-e a thousand questions that occur to the minds of y°nn 0
andi’ld! but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to
esting subjects concerning marriage, which nwkes it a ver.
superior'guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future and wishes to en.ioy married life in its tu nest sens ,
can afford to dispense With the information embraced i
the commonwealths
bookseller to
Prof Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
”SfS r iSSS^nSSfa%MM-wn.
BUSINESS, KUTURITY. etc., «Uh Ml'foJJJ
Linnq 1/- DOSted. GAMBLERS SECRETS AND HOW
to WiV at Cards. 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille. 1/- post. How to Vamp on I IAN . O ’
p IAS o Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. modern
Ftiouette 1/-. Hoyle’s CARD Games (Rules for
all Games ,1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Jykehng, 1
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. lQ r “ E _,' V S I ";
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car
renter 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/,. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter W riier Lr
1/3 posted. Speeches and 1 oasts ! lblic Si lak
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang o»
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ,
nnst 11° ELECTRICITY MADE- SIMPLE (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy -
rook 1/6 Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated. 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. W annan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
Hep and many others, all at 3/6 each
nos ed Lee’s Priceless Recipes 1/6 posted.
WOMEN’S SECRETS, 1/- post GAY LIFE IN MEL-
BOURNE, II- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l*ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
P cash my Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
ISK COT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking .
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST.. NO
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE
DUTY.
SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Oi.d Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/2 Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret his-
tory Court'of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
S«1 Dosted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
o (1 - P .?/_ How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
Dosted/ ’ Ciievasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennaßß Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Rela-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Turf 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., l ca , ther - bou
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and i guineas?).
BOOTMAKING AND REPAIRING, 1/2. DYNAMOS AND
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, xloth
bound 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/. nost. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
rmrmlote) 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
PaTne, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
g.P PnRFRT REAR
Qheap Book Depot,
Market Street, Sydney (own)


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Etil.
Governing Director HUGH I>. McINTOSM.
JIVOII THEA TK E, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY'S AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FA MO'JS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
TIVOLI THEATIIE, MEIBOIRNE.
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
SYDNEY JAMES, MADELINE ROSSITER, GWEN
LEWIS. CONNIE MILNE, W. G. DESMOND, GEO.
GRAYSTONH.
Also, Degron and Clifton, Haydee's Marionettes,
Artois Dr.o, Little Billie cle Rex, Svinoff, and Musical
Irving.
Plan at Glen's.
|_l E R M A ,1 E S T V ' S. S Y I ) N I( Y
■ * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
First Production in Sydney of the London Gaietv
Hit,
TONIGHTS THE NIGHT.
A Musical Delight, Bringing Back Here
J. C. WILLIAMSON'S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
(“Sydney’s Own.”)
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales CiiHose’s.
THEATRE ROY A L, SYI)N E Y.
1 Lessee: J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
-r—E. L Carroll and Beaumont Smith present Henry
Lawson’s Real Australian Plav,
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS.
Being an adaptation by Beaumont Smith of some
of Henry Lawson’s Works.
NEW AUSTRALIAN SONGS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. No Extra Booking
Fee. Plan at Paling’s.
Q K I T E R I O N T H EA T R E, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Reigning
Success of London since Oct. 10. 1915, when it was
produced at the Duke of York’s Theatre,
ROMANCE,
By Edward Sheldon, with MADGE FABIAN and
FRANK HARVEY and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
P A LAC E TII E A THE SVI) N E V
Sole Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FINEST ATTRACTION IN THE CITY.
ALLEN DOONE, in his New Play,
lIAPPY-GO-LUCKY O’SHEA
Hear Allen Doone sirg the New Songs: “The Kil-
kenny Cats,” “The Night Bird’s Cooing,” “Think of
Me, Sweet Maid.” Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales
at ihe White Rose. , Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-:.
|T A R E W E E E SEASON.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
STARTING SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21.
THE FREDERIC SHIPMAN
ENTERPRISES LTD.
present
PAUL DUEAULT.
Positively liis Farewell Appearances prior
to his Departure for America.
ARDEN THEATRE,
va Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
1
TRIANGIiE PLAYS AT
* THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30 ; Overture
at S p.m. Box Plan at Paling's.
Prices : 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Unioi Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd). 1
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
You haven’t seen Sydney, until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GRE A TER .1. 11. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
AY. Barrington Miolkr, Managing Director.
14ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
*■» Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTI).
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Scintillating
Musical Success,
THE CINEMA STAR,
Plan at Allan's. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and lI-
TII EAT R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 14.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd., present HALE HAMIL-
TON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL in a revival of
GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFOR D
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
* Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN .T. FULLER presents his newly-imported
Musical Burlesque Co.
FUN WITH THE COACHMAN,
and
IN MEXICO.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
tf INC’S Til EAT It E. M E L B O U It N E.
**■ Lessees.... Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the BERT BAILEY CO. in
S’iEEI.E RUDD’S Famous Comedy Drama,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and !/■
Amusements.
ARCADIA, ST. KILDA, MELBOURNE.
** Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
THE PINK~~DAN DIES.
OPENING SATURDAY NEXT, 14th OCTOBER.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glens
and Habers’.
p» I K C II & C A It II O L U
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the prinei
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) front Toowoomba t
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Loading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Hn An Office : ROT IT WELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE,
CCLLE li’S H O T E U, M E LIIOCRN E
(adjoining- Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
On;* of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Zxyjma
CURES ECZEMA.
Lema, Belmore Road, Rahdwick, 7/S/’ 16. Mr. S.
Fielder, Rand wick. Dear Sir, —1 suffered for many
years with Eczema on both my feet, and after trying-
numerous so-called remedies without any benefit i
came to. the conclusion that my case was incurable.
A friend advised me to try your remedy, “Exzerma, - ’
so I decided to give it a trial. After a week I was
completely cured. —W. J. Day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
:r S. FIELDER, Randwick. 2(j J/-
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy.
Melbourne, oth October, 1916.
Tenders for the Supply of Electric Light
Machinery for Quarantine Boarding
Launch, Brisbane.
rjpENDEItS are invited subject to the con-
ditions of tender, until 12 noon on Mon-
day, 13th November. 1916, for the supply of
Electric Light Mach.nery for Quarantine
Hoarding Launch, Brisbane. Delivery to be
made e.i.f. Brisbane.
Tender form, specifications and any fur-
ther particulars ljnay be obtained from .the
Director of Navy Contracts, or at the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane, Edged iff (Sydney)
Port Adelaide, Fremantle and Ilobart.
,T. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Missing I'riciKls.
fn OM JONES, formerly groom to T. (’.
I O’Brien, will hear something to his
advantage Jsv communicating with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS &
AGENCY CO.. S 5 Queen Street, Melbourne.
NMhe Estate of WILLIAM PETERSEN,
late of Erin a, Farmer, deceased. The
mst-of-kin of the above-named are requested
to communicate with the undersigned
respecting their shares of ‘the above Estate,
furnishing particulars of kinship and place
and date of birth of the deceased.
T. W. GARRETT. Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers.
67 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
DLJSSELL, GRACE. —Will Me. Grace Russell.
L\ daughter of the late Alexander Henderson and
of the late Grace Henderson of Ballan, Victoria, or
any person knowing her whereabouts, or who can
give evidence of her death, please communicate with
the undersigned. DUGDALE & CREBER, 84-88
William Street,' Melbourne, Solicitors for the Execu-
tors of Grace Henderson, deceased.
DALY, GRACE. —Will Mrs. Grace Daly, daughter
of the late Alexander Henderson and of the late
Grace Henderson of Ballan, Victoria, or any person
knowing her whereabouts, or who can give evidence
of her death, please communicate with the under-
signed. DUGDALE & CREBER, 84-88 William
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Executors of
Grace Henderson, deceased.
n
a
Gem Rings
at Stewart Dawson’s.
Economy of price is a striking feature of all
our Diamond Rings. Make a point of inspect-
ing our present unrivalled stock. If you
cannot call send for our ARTISTIC BOOKLET
OF ENGAGEMENT RINGS.
Fine Diamond 3-
store Ring, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £l5/10/-
c
P 2398. —Platinum
and 18ot. Gold
Diamond Cluster
Ring, £B/10/-
M 7 Gold
and 5-Diamond
Ring, carved set-
ting, £7/10/-
U293l.—Fine Soli-
taire Diamond
Engagement Ring,
Platinum Setting,
£l2/10/-
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney
ZONOPHONE
RECORDS
The Records the
Public will have.
BIG SHIPMENTS RECEIVED.
Nearly ALL Numbers Now Available.
All the Latest Selections.
You should have no difficulty in procuring your favorite
selections now, whatever they may be. The big Zonophone
lists of popular successes which found such a ready sale have
been duplicated. The shipments have been
landed, and dealers can now supply all num-
bers —old and new favorites at the popular
“Zonophone” prices:
“Zonophone” celebrity records cost only 3/-
each.
Ask your nearest dealer for the latest lists
or write to
THE BRITISH ZONOPHONE CO.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
10-INCH
(Double-sided)
2/3.
12-INCH
(Double-sided)
3/6.
Business Notices.
TkeCHIASTOLITEV“
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/C each.
Mounted as Ring’s in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each'.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
• E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
m
RAMEY’S MEDIC ATOR ”
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Metiicator, with complete treat=
ment. only 10/-, post free. ~
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. A
Used the
World Over
m
MOTOR
...CARS
DAIMLER
m
ffIoTOR Carriages
CfIfIiJiERCIAI, Vehicles ~
Agricultural Tractors
tm« DAIMLER COMPANY ws
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
Electric
Light in
your Home
Country and suburban homes, no matter
where situated, can now have electricity for
lighting and power—with all the comfort,
convenience, safety and economy that elec-
tricity ensures —by the use of Edison Storage
Batteries and Plant.
This is a wonderfully satisfactory method,
and the Edison Storage Batteries are the best
in the world —vastly superior to the ordinary
lead-acid kind —and need absolutely no expert
attention.
One user had Edison Storage Batteries, and
after two years wrote: “I take pride in
demonstrating and showing your ceils.”
Another reports: “It has done its work for
the second season with the greatest satisfac-
tion to me. Never a night when the light
was not good.”
Write at once for full details of the Edison
Storage Batteries for Home Lighting', post
free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney, NiS.W.
Benger’s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
m
It is different
from all other
foods in being
'scientifically
i combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
m
Food
v is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are pariiaMy
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger s Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder.
Bender's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere _
An interesting booklet Renser^Foo ; rass:st, Nature
for Invalids and Convalescents, post f eu ijpm
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, Eng.
NEW YORK (VS wniiam St.
C '” ,a Gabriel Sr! MONTRE A L, and branches throughout C A n adA.


NSW
ELy
D
V
rs
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is ideal for
Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties
and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel replete with every
comfort and modern convenience, including telephones in bedrooms con-
necting with the Exchange. . , , .
The cuisine is under the supervision of a very eminent French c/ie/,
who has his own skilled staff of assistants —thus placing the >\ent-
worth Hotel with its perfect service and other advantages m the front
rank of the finest hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
MRS. MACLURCAN , Manageress.
Hoyts Pictures
George
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14.
WILLIAM FARNUM in the William Fox Photo-play,
“THE BROKEN LAW.”
“THE FLOWER OF NO MAN’S LAND,”
Metro Wonder-play, starring VIOLA DANA.
Three Hours’ Evening Program—B to 11, 12,000 feet of film. CONTINU-
OUS DAILY 11 to 6. Week Prices 6d. and 1/-, Saturday and Holidays 1/-,
1/0. Theatre ventilated and fumigated between day and night programs.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre.
Bourke 5-
The Picture Bloc K
Sydney 6 Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS
FALSE PRETENCES.
NURSE: “ Goodness, child, whatever are you
doing to your new doll?”
CHILD: “We played her father was at the
war (kick) fighting for his country
(kick), an’ he killed hundreds of the
enemy (kick). Then I found the deceit-
ful little least was a German all the
time.”
What a shirker Propputy can be! Listen
to this howl about the infamy of not exclud-
ing- war bonds from the forms of “wealth’
that will have to pay the 1-j per cent.
Repatriation levy. It is said truthfully
that Higgs guaranteed the bonds to be free
from income tax. But neither Higgs nor
anyone else promised to increase the capital
investment of the holder. And this is what
every rise in the income tax will do. If
everyone else has to pay this levy there is
not a single reason for excluding the holder
of the war bond. That person has a security
of exceptional value; and the next rise of
income tax will give back to the war-bond
victim the whole or part of what he is
making a noise at having to part with now.
He ought to keep quiet.
MAKING DER NEWS.
DER HUN: “Herr von Swinehogg vos get
smash up vid his aeroplane.”
DER OFFICER: “Yell, report to der official
vireless dot he vos return to our lines
having brought down his twenty-first
machine.”
The voluntary system fails, too, because it
doesn’t make men available at the right
time ; and that means, at the best, unneces-
sary loss. If Les Darcy was in a ring, he
could certainlv knock out 20 ordinary un-
trained fellows if they were passed in one
or two at a time. But if 10 were let on to
him at once, and five more came at him in a
lump when five of the first lot tired, the
chances are that Darcy would be over-
whelmed, and the final lot of reinforcements
would never be called upon. We shall not
save life by voting “No” on the 28th. A
“No” vote will be a vote to throw thousands
of lives away, because we shall not be able to
use our men to the best advantage.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
liun by aliens, the 1.W.W., which has
leavened the Labor leagues with its pro-
German anti-conscription, even couches its
appeals for Australian support in an alien
language. A circular issued by the organi-
sation in reference to the arrest of some of
it- officials in Sydney is full of un-Australian
s’ang. Unionists are urged to raise “a hell
of a howl” about the arrests, which are
described as “frame-ups.” Australians aie
warned in the same foreign language that
unless they take a firm stand it will be . a
case of “railroad to the penitentiary” (which
is Neutral for gaol) ; wherefore they
should get a move on, or, as the circular
puts it, in the alleged language of Woodrow
Wilson’s country: “Go to it; all well with
local.”
[B. J. Owen, 75 Glenhuntly-road, Elwood.]
Nobody ought to know so well as -the
trade-unionists of this country the advan-
tage of having a reputation for being pre-
pared to fight to the end. The clerks were
for many years the most miserably paid
workers of the cities. They were walked
over simply because, if they had any unions
at all, they were poor, flaccid things which
could be depended upon to throw up the
sponge after the first round. On the other
hand, no workers have so enormously im-
proved their position as the wharf-laborers,
because they became known as a militant
body that would fight everything out to a
finish. One anti-conscriptionist yell is that,
if Australia declares itself a militant, of the
sort that fights to a finish, it will be so weak
that it will not be able to defend itself.
Apply the case of the clerks and the wharf-
laborers, and you , see daylight through the
bottom of that foolish “argument.”
[S. H. Prior, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
One of the things the world is short of is
paper. But that does not keep the N.S.W.
Government from printing a return showing
the price paid for flatliead and schnapper at
a lunatic asylum and a sanatorium. The in-
formation is imparted on paper measuring
Ift. x l|ft. With paper 10ft. x 6ft. still
available it seems as if the Government is
carrying economy to the point of parsimony.
It is a pretty wretclied performance t to
howl down a speaker, but it is ,
mouth of Defence Minister Pearce to abu
the crowd which refused to n h ,f '
Collingwood (Melb.) Town lolh «
night. Pearce had a good l
with the "ag, and between his pertoimai
as a throttler and that of the Collingwood
mob there is very little difference,
whole, in fact, Pearce’s performance was the
worse' because what lie suppressed was
(among other things) the repoits of the
chaos in his own department.
Premier Wilson, of W.A., proposes to sell
the State brick and implement works and
shut up two meat-shops, and tlieie
little doubt that most of the other concerns
will go the same road— excepting the hotels,
which are a paying proposition. That ex
ception proves that it isnPtne princ p .
that Wilson and his crowd object To. they
are quite prepared to put up with Socialisn
so long as there is money in it. mat neing
so. Wilson’s job seems to be not to shut up
or sell the implement works, for instance,
but to see first whether they can t be put
into the same class as the pubs. A state
certainly wants cheap home-made agricul-
tural implements quite as much as it wants
cheap home-made beer.
The Conversion of Sydney Customs House
into a sky-scraper “adorned with specimens
of Hellenic art” having commenced, a huge
signboard has been stuck up outside the
premises announcing that
THIS BUILDING IS BRING RECONSTRUCTED BY
KING O’MALLEY.
This strenuous carpet-bagger who just before
the war wanted to pull the innards out of the
Australian warships for the purpose of fill-
ing them with vegetables to be exhibited at
’Frisco, ought to get a better ad. than that
at the public expense. What’s the matter
with putting up a stage across the footpath
and hiring a Yankee vodville troupe to sing
comic songs with brass-band obligato?
The Bulletin doesn’t know what to do
about this. Here is a paragraph which
comes from the Front and has a direct bear-
ing on the Conscription issue. The law r says
we mustn’t print the writer’s address,
because it is not advisable that the enemy
should know where he is; also the law—
another law —says that we must print his
address because the enemy has a right to
know where he is. Perfect freedom has been
assured the press in this Conscription cam-
paign, so this paper has a right to print the
man’s important communication ; yet it can’t
print it without breaking one law or the
other. The law seems to have tied its tail
in a knot once more.
Scaddan has got back into the Westralian
Assembly, after his unsuccessful scrimmage
to keep somebody else out. The Ivanhoe
seat, vacated by Lutey, was easily won, too,
Scaddan outing Dunn, who stood as a
“straight-out anti-conscriptionist,” by a
three-to-one majority. John will now be
able to secure abounding happiness by sitting-
back with a large, wide grin while watching
the inheritors of his muddle struggle to clean
up the mess.
GLORIOUS LIBERTY—WITH AN
ASIDE TO BILL.
THE ORATOR: “I says again wot we stands
for is liberty....that’s right, Bill, deal
with him; that bloke’s been puttin’ in
his spoke all along.”
The anti-conscriptionists whooped a little
last week over the announcement that the
Canadian Government —an anti-Labor Gov-
ernment, by the way—had decided against
compulsion for the present. But the ants-
conscriptionists might be honest about it and
add that there will be “a system of registra-
tion in order to distinguish the slackers.”
That is to say. there will be compulsion, but
it will be backstairs compulsion. The .Cana-
dian is to be free to stay at home if he wants
to, but he is to be marked so that he may get
the gibe and the scoff and the white feather
until he is too uncomfortable to stay at home
any longer. It is a quaint thing to claim as
a victory for voluntaryism.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
NO EXEMPTION.
ROBUST PERSON WITH COLD FEET (discussing the only subject): “All I can say is that
good health's a blanky curse to a man these days.”
YOU AN ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
y,'r. remember when we knew them, not so very long
ago,
The mates who never failed us, were it weal or were
it woe ;
In the town or in the country, north or south 01
east or west, *
Knocking round in careless manner, greeting hard-
ships with a jest;
Boys whose hands were ever ready, and whose help
was ever free,
When there came a chance to lighten little loads for
you an’ me.
Just a hand to lift a burden, just a word to set us
straight,
When we struck a job we knew not, and were halting
in our gait;
Just a kindly hint to warn us, or to save us shame
or loss,
Telling how to share a billet, or to dodge a rotten
boss—
On each dusty track that wanders from the centre
to the sea,
We have tramped and camped beside them, and
they’ve helped both you an’ me.
Times have changed. The lists of slaughter tell the
price of the advance,
As the Hun goes slowly backward on the bloodsoaked
fields of France,
Where the high explosive shatters and the shrapnel
bullets fly,
And Australia’s homes grow safer as Australia's sol-
diers die;
Pressing grimly, ever onward, till the stricken Ger-
mans flee,
The boys we’ve worked and loafed with battle on
for you an’ me.
But their ranks are thinning daily as they slowly
forge ahead ;
The ground they take is paid for with the wounded
and the dead.
Shall we let them know we’re coming, every able-
bodied man,
Just to lend a hand to help them, straight and
swiftly as we can?
Or shall we read the cables, heave a sigh and let
them be,
And chuck the boys who struggle for the good of
you an’ me?
HAMPTON (N.S.W.)
L.O. WILKINSON.


m
Are You a
“BooKstall”
Reader ?
In other words, have you read the best
novels printed in Australia?
Eye: til NO
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
includes NINETY SHILLING NOVELS by
the Most Popular of Australian Authors
Sold Everywhere.
Write for Catalogue.
ÜBIQUE,
By CLARENCE W. MARTIN.
THREE YEARS WITH THUNDER-
BOLT, By AMBROSE PRATT.
THE CONVICT PUGILIST,
By GEO. COCKERILL.
A ROGUE’S LUCK,
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
A BACHELOR’S WIFE,
By M. FORREST.
THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS
BLAKE, By LOUIS BECKE.
SPATS’ FACT’RY,
By EDWARD DYSON.
IN RACING SILK,
By G. R. BALDWIN.
SCOTTY MAC—SHEARER,
By R. S. TAIT.
BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S COM-
MAND, By ROY BRIDGES.
Price ll-
(1/1 Posted).
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
TOM PAGDIN—PIRATE,
By E. J. BRADY.
BINDAWALLA,
By THOS. E. SPENCER.
BASE BRANDS,
By H. M. SOMER.
STELLA SOTHERN,
By I. A. ROSENBLUM.
THE GOLDEN KANGAROO,
By AMBROSE PRATT.
THE TRADER,
By C. ROSS-JOHNSON.
MUM DAWSON—BOSS,
By SUMNER LOCKE.
THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER,
By CHAS. WHITE.
Recent Additions:
GRANDPA’S SELECTION,
By STEELE RUDD.
THE BELLE OF THE BUSH,
By GEO. DARRELL.
N.S. W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N Z. 2/6.)
This Month’s Mew REGAL RECORDS,
New Record by Britain’s Greatest Pianist —WILLIAM MURDOCH
G 7290
j The Bees’ Wedding:
( Spring: Song:
(Mendelssohn)
(Mendelssohn)
Regimental Band of H.M. WELSH GUARDS (Conducted by Andrew Harris)—
G 7301
( The Whistler anti His Dog—with Effects (Arthur Pryor)
l Oh, You Women. Humorous March (Lincke)
Wingate’s Band-
G 7287
\ The Merry Musicians March
( Jamie’s Patrol
.. (Greenwood)
(Sidney Dacre)
The Regal Orchestra-
G 7288
(Carrie Jacobs-Bond)
(Norman Kennedy)—With Celesta
j A PERFECT DAY
( Persiflage Entr’acte <
Concertina Solos by Alexander Prince-
G 7289
\ Bonne Bouche Polka
i Bes Folies Polka .. .
(Waldteufel)
(Waldteufel)
Frank Webster, Tenor (with Orch.)
G 7291
( A PERFECT DAY (Carrie Jacobs-Bond)
I Somewhere a Voice is Calling: (Tate). Duet—Grace Keens & Herbert Stuart
Regal Star Quartette (unaccompanied)
G 7293
( Tenting- To-night on the Old Camp Ground
I The Artillerist’s Oath (C.
(Kittredge)
F. Adams)
Gertie Gitana, Comedienne (with Orch.)
G 7293
f When I Leave the World Behind (Irving Berlin)
{ Wrap Me in a Bundle and Take Me Home With You . (Van Alst.yne)
{ Duet —Ada Jones and [Will C. Robbins
Stanley Kirkby, Baritone (with Orch.) —-
G 7295
( What Did You Do in the Great War, Daddy? ... (O’Neill)
i When the Boys Come Home Again (P. V. St. Clair)
07296
\ The Song the Kettle Is Singing (David ajid Wright)
I The Home Bells Are Binging (Ivor Novello)
G 7302
f A BROKEN DOLL .. (Jas. W. Tate)
l Keep the Kettle Boiling, Mary (Lee and Sterndale\.Beimett)
Duets by Stanley Kirkby and F. W. Ramsey (with Orch.)
G 7297
f Are You From Dixie? (Yellen ancf Cobb)
{When Paderewski Plays (Weston, Lee, and Two* Bobs)
The Chocolate-Colored Coon, G. H. ELLIOTT’S Latest-
G 7294
s DOWN HOME IN TENNESSEE
\ Just a Few, Few Fusiliers
(Jerome and Donaldson)
(Bert Lee and H. E. Darewski)
F. W. Ramsey, Baritone (with Orch.)
G 7398
(Sonny Cunlia)
(Greenback and Rubens)
\ Good-bye, Honolulu—from “Joy-land”
| liUm Tiddley—from “Tina”
Ernest Sullivan, Tenor (with Orch.)
07290
( You Can Have an Irish Name
I That Little Girl of Mine
.. (Hqratio Nicholls)
(Kathleen Cavanagh)
S. \V. Wyndham, Comedian (with Orch.)
G 7300
\ Fourpence-halfp'enny Change
\ Meow-wow-wow
},(Dave Wallis)
(Trevorfand Bateman)
Humorous Descriptive Sketches (with Orch.)
G 7237
f Popping- the Question .. .
| The Lodger’s Green Hair
(Penrose)
(Penrose)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, liawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St,
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, YV.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 213 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
We must diminish the consumption of imports and
maintain exports on an increased scale. The more
we do this the more we contribute to the country’s
resources, from which the nation can pay its gigantic
war expenditure.— Mr. Asquith, Prime Minister of
England.
Took Off 800 Acres with 9ft. Engine-
functioned Sunshine Harvester, and
Sample Was Perfect.
Trundle, N.6.W.
Cereal growers are always ready to avail them-
selves of any improved appliances introduced by
manufacturers. Owing to the shortage of suitable
labor large machines have
come greatly into favor,
and anything that will
tend to lessen the draught
of the big grain gatherer
is eagerly sought after. The
engine-functioned harvester
fills the bill in this way,
and the one I purchased
from you last season
worked satisfactorily in
crops yielding from two
to fifteen bags per acre of
wheat and oats. As evi-
dence of the lightness of
draught, I found that three
horses pulled the 9ft.
machine comfortably on
good, average, cultivated
land, but on hilly or loose
soil four horses are neces-
sary. The spiral beaters
.are another great advan-
tage in the big machine,
for they produce a slicing,
instead of a chopping,
action when they come in
contact with the heads on
the comb and concaves. In
mv opinion this reduces
the cracking of grain to
R minimum. They also
lessen the driving power
required and throw every-
thing inwards on to the
broad elevators. This pre-
vents what is termed spitting
back into the drum, conse-
quently there is practi-
cally no waste of grain
from spraying off the
comb—an important and
valuable point. In all, I
took off 800 acres with
this machine during the
season, harvesting up to
twenty-five acres per day,
biggest tally being 133
bags. The sample was
perfect at all times, un-
doubtedly due to the fact
that the working parts
were always running at
the proper speed, no
matter what pace the
horses walked. A number
of farmers who saw mv
ergine-functioned harvester
at work expressed the
opinion that it is the
coming machine.
(Sgd.) H. S. COUSINS.
Stripped Rye Grass and Made Good
Sample. Moolap> vic _
Re Sunshine Harvester. It gave satisfaction and
no trouble. It is a 6ft. machine, and I worked five
norses, stripped about 90 acres consisting of wheat,
ats, barley and rye grass, and made a very
gooa sample, especially the grass, which surprised
everyone who saw the grass growing, as it was not
jery high; but the machine stripped it clean, made a
e y good sample, and wasted very little. Very
pleased with the work done.
'Sgd.) W. J. ALLEN.
Worked in a Mustard-infected Crop that
Blocked Other Makes.
Los Angeles, Ariah Park, N.S.W.
The Sunshine Harvester supplied to me this season
was an Bft. I used six horses,, which walked along
with ease. There was no side draught. My highest
number of bags in one day was 138. Sample was
good; bags weighed on average 1901 b. My highest
number of oats in one day was 124 bags; sample
good. No change of horses. I had 100 acres of crop
which was very thick with mustard ; it looked impos-
sible for a machine to work in it. The other make
of harvester would not work chain without getting
blocked, but the new spiral beaters took the mustard
' 'rf
'
K'WSifis
■
*T'
s&SC
mmm
■MWHIiMHHMK
P «*»• S .
!1 ' > -"T ‘ .:'■*, ta a
Sunshine Harvesters used by Mr. fas. F. Bell, Yarrabool, Wagga, N.S.W.
from the comb, and never blocked. I stretched all
the leather belts before starting, and went right
through the season without having to tighten them.
The automatic lifting gear is perfection, and in my
opinion is one of the simplest and best things man
has invented on machinery. It never goes wrong, is
easy to work, and saves a considerable amount of
elbow grease. In fact, I am more than satisfied with
the machine; it is so simple and easy to work. A
14-year-old boy could manage it. I have worked
nearly every make of harvester and header, but the
1 ntest improved Sunshine Harvester, in my opinion,
is in a class of its own. (Sgd.) R. A. MILLS.
Farm Adjoins the Sea. Excellent
Work in Rye Grass, as Well as Other
Grain.
Moolap, Vic.
Re Sunshine Harvester which I purchased off you
last year. Considering that this is a coastal dis-
trict and my farm adjoining the bay, and the sea
fogs, which tend to toughen the grain, especially
mornings and evenings, the machine worked splen-
didly, and gave every satisfaction. I stripped wheat,
oats, barley and English rye grass, and in each crop
it stripped very clean, wasted very little (in fact,
not enough to leave for a decent crop for sheep feed),
and made an excellent sample. I have already sown
over 100 acres with the seed, and have had' no
trouble with it to drill: and as for harvesting the
grass seed —well, it surprised everyone, as critics said
it was impossible to harvest it satisfactory, but it
did. I would be pleased to show the sample to
anyone. I will leave a sample at the depot at
Geelong. The cost is much less than the old style
of thrashing. (Sgd.) W. J. ALLEN.
In Tangled Oats 6 Feet High.
Baramgoom, Boomahmoomoonah, Vic.
About the Bft. Sunshine Harvester I purchased from
you this year, I must say I was very pleased with
it. I used six horses to work it in crop that .went
over 12 bags to the acre, andjU don’t think it was
any heavier oil them than the sft. was on four horses.
The spiral beaters are a great j improvement. They
will strip absolutely anything. I am sure if a man
had an engine or enough horses; the machine could
go all night. We had an inch oflrain one day, most
of it during the afternoon. Nexst morning" I was
stripping a little after 8 o’clock, when it made a
good sample. The automatic comb-lifting gear is a
wonderful labor-saver, and makes the driving of a
harvester quite an easy job. Many' farmers told me
I would never pull the machine withr six horses, but
they did it quite comfortably—and' in a crop of
Algerian oats that in
many places was over six
feet in length and tangled
and twisted' in all direc-
. ms. 1 am sure many
in these machines will
come into this district, as
those that worked here
this year have given every
satisfaction.
(Sgd.)
RICHARD HAMMDN.
Convinced that the
Large Size Machine
Is the More Profit-
able.
Yarrabool, .
.via AVagga, N.S.W.
The big' Sunshine Har-
vester which I have had at
work this season has given
me. great satisfaction. Not-
. withstanding the. hilly . and
broken character of the
land, it has worked
smoothly and bagged “an
excellent sample of wheat.
Its easy-running is quite
remarkable, and there is
no trouble whatever in
keeping a perfectly
straight line. The auto-
matic lowering and rais-
ing gear has proved a
great boon, . the
driver's work and enab-
ling him to give more
attention to the other im-
portant details. In my
judgment no machine but
a Sunshine would operate
successfully, in hilly coun-
try like mine. While I
have always had good re-
sults from the 6ft. Sun-
shine Harvester which I
purchased some years ago,
I am quite convinced that
the larger size is. the more
profitable machine for the
farmer.
(Sgd.)
JAMES F. BELL.
“In these times especially it is most desirable that
we should keep the profit from our own business in
our own hands. The profit we send out of the country
reduces the income of Australians, and that adds to
the amount of tax which has to be borne by the
income that remains behind. In other words, eveij
Australian who lets somebody outside Australia make
a' profit out of him instead of giving it to an Aus-
tralian adds to the amount of war tax which he must
pay himself.'"


If King Constantine only had the sense to
fortify his jaded nerves with that incompar-
able stimulant, King George IV. Whisky, he
would no longer halt between two opinions.
—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special Wli i
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED. Redfern, Sydney.
“It is ill arguing with a hungry man,” says the
old proverb. But it is worse playing tricks with a
sick one. When the doctor orders brandy he means
real good stuff —the best.” Give the patient
Martell’s, and both he and his doctor will be
satisfied. Being rich in the higher ethers it is
unequalled in case of sickness.
Besides., it is perfect for social purposes.
MARTELL’S BRANDY
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [3
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE!.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
Returned disabled soldiers.
Single Men with Thorough Farm
Training who are disabled in upper body
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Overseers in Solomon Islands by writ-
in- to ISLAND INSPECTOR,
BURNS. PIIILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney.
The finest, keenest blades ever
made for shaving —harder
blades with smoother and
more lasting edges—are those
now being sold for the
1
&J3Z 22EEEEO
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Take a packet home with
you to-night.
BRITISH MADE,
Sold everywhere. Write for
Agents: S. IToffnung & Co., Ltd.
Sydney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd.
free booklet.
, Pitt Street,
, London, Eng.
JJhQWNJTHf
IS
ex,
Air Cushions
For SOLDIERS
..Waterproof Cloth-
Each Seam Sewn-
All Valves Guaranteed-
Name Stamped Free
ROTHWELL’S LTD..
of Charge
Edward Street,
BRISBANE
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A.J.C. Spring Meeting, postponed because
of rain, got into its stride four days late, then
baulked again and finished up in the third week
after it was supposed to start but didn’t. On the
whole, it was not a meeting at which the public fared
so badly as it usually does at Randwick, nor did
Ikey have such an unhappy time as he tried to
make out. In picking ’em on the course the punter
did fairly well, but on the betting before the meeting-
on tlie Epsom and Metropolitan straight-out and in
doubles the scales must have dropped heavily on
the side of the Bar Vons. Panacre was fairly well
backed for the Epsom up till a month before the
race, but then dropped out, and there was a ton
of money heaped on Woorak, Polycrates, Blague,
Getigne and Merimee. For the Metrop. a dozen were
solidly supported for many weeks, and that lot fell
into the bag with a good, solid thud.
On the running two nags stand out from all the
others —the Maoriland colt Kilboy, winner of the
Derby, and the imported Polycrates, second in both
Epsom and Metropolitan. A week or so before the
meeting last year’s champion two-year-old Wolaroi
commenced to show signs of weariness. He is a horse
that could easily be knocked up on the track. But
Kilboy throve on bis work, and was obviously coming
on every day. Polycrates had to be eased off in the
last fortnight. For several days he showed distinct
lameness, and it is just a question whether this in-
terruption did not stop him appropriating the double.
Whether M’olaroi at his best would be beaten by
Kilboy over the Derby distance is a matter not
made quite clear by last week’s race. The writer
reckons the Maorilander the better of the pair, but
if Wolaroi happens to feel as he ought to at Fleming-
ton. and Kilboy is ridden as he was at Randwick, the
relative merits of the two may not be so certain to
a lot of people as they are to-day.
The great merit of Kilboy’s win in the Derby was
not that he defeated Wolaroi, for Seaton’s colt was a
good deal from being well, but that after a race in
which he met with considerable interference and had
to be driven over one stage at a pace which would
have shattered any ordinary horse’s chances, he
stayed out the journey and left the really smart
Thana astern. Kilboy got badly away, and at
seven furlongs was thrown right out of his stride
and almost pulled up. To many people it looked as
if that was the end of the section. But he was set
going again, and inside two furlongs had sprinted up
to the leaders. It was a tremendous effort, and
McLachlan took a great risk. But it came off right
enough, for the colt went on and landed the bacon
from Easteourt, who finished surprisingly well. The
consequence was to put the colt at a short price for
the Melbourne Cup, and, provided all goes well, it
looks as if that is where he ought to be. That he is
a stayer of father rare quality looks a certainty.
Eastcourt’s performance looked almost as good in a
way, for the colt is capable of much improvement.
But when, on the second day, he faded away in a
set-to with Stageland over the last part of a mile
and a quarter in the Clibborn Stakes, there appeared
good reason why the public should not again back
Easteourt enthusiastically until he gives further evi-
dence on his own behalf.
Panacre won the Epsom, and sent a nice, solid wad
to Newcastle, because he saw the distance right out;
because Pol.verates had a bit of bad luck in the
straight ; because Blague, with every chance of doing
the right thing, couldn’t manage it on account of
the judge being too far awav ; and because Colugo
was in the same box. The dull course settled Woorak
with his lOst. 41b. before the start. If Blague had
been up to a solidly-run mile he should have won,
for be got well away and had a good lead into the
straight. If the race were run again on a dry track
it is fairly certain that the result would be different :
also, that Blague would not be any closer than he
was before.
But if the Metropolitan were run over again
tickets on Quinologist would rot be available at
20 and 16 to 1. This imported customer won the
Trial Stakes, a mile and a quarter, on the first day
with Bst., and thereby called attention to the fact
that in the Metropolitan he had been accommodated
with fist. 101 b. Now, the horse couldn’t do any more
than win the Trial, and 6st. 1 01b. is a little less than
a ton: but the miblic rushed at Israel with money
for Bee and Cyklon and Wallace Isinglass and Prince
Bardolph and PoWcrates—and it never came back
anv more. But Pobft.-rates (Sst. 41b.) once again showed
what a real good horse he is. For fractiousness at
the barrier be was given outside position—and there
were 35 to be outside of. Inside a furlong be had
bounded over to the rails in front and struck out to
win from end to end. It didn’t quite come off, but
the honors of the race belonged to him and Cetigne,
who finished third. Bee was never really in the
hunt, and the public which persists in putting cash
on M r allace Isinglass had the wild delight of losing
as it did before. Quinologist, having been nitch-
forked into the race, was able to accommodate an
additional 71b. in order to got a more muscular pilot,
and didn’t make any noticeable complaint. He was
a cheap nag. He was sold last January for £4O.
Though he had run very indifferently since, someone
who backed him months ago for the Metrop. at long,
sweet odds must have known something.
In the long ago there was talk about
Baronet Cooper’s imported Redfern doing something
desperate to the Epsom, and the handicapper said
9st. 41b. But Redfern was not persevered with.
Later on, it was reckoned that the same owner’s
Svdian (also imp.) at 7st. 91b. might; come along,
but recent, running had shown that Sydian was a
considerably over-rated nag. or else he didn’t care
much about a mile. But the Cooper colors were in
the van during the run for the Epsom, for Colugo
put up a very respectable effort. He was always
well up, and battled it out down the straight with
Panacre until his legs and wind began to feel the
strain of a race which, if not fast in comparison with
other Epsoms because of the dull track, was solidly
run from end to end. In this event Colugo was in
receipt of 211 b. from Panacre and 151 b. from Blague.
Next day in the Shorts, six furlongs, he showed that
be hadn’t been joking by finishing in front, at a
difference of 191 b. and 81b. from the other two. A
smart horse is Colugo.
* «■ * *
Quarale, winner of the A.J.C.’s Squatter’s
Handicap on Saturday, is a useful horse. Although
he runs in the name of trainer W. A. Ross. Quarale
is really the property of Felix Booth, uncle of the,
Horderns. He was backed heavily, and the writer
never remembers seeing so many people swarming
around Ike with a demand for tickets on the same
nag. Some of the less prominent Noses were badly
bent, and at least two of them had to defer pay-
ment. Every bean in their bags had vanished.
Quarale recently won at Canterbury Park, and a
week or two back appropriated the Cup at Menangle
Park. In addition to this nag, Felix Booth owns
Valior, a good suburban performer, and one of two
others. As Jack Rice, the champion hurdler, is in
Ross’s stable, that trainer seems to have nothing to
complain about.
* * * *
What a rare good mare Carlita is! And,
on the whole, how blind the public has been to it!
When she won the Craven Plate at Randwick on
Monday she ran her stake-earnings, up to £17,132,
the most accumulated by a lady in Australia, and
putting her with Carbine, Trafalgar and Poseidon at
the top of the four-legged money-catchers. The
singular thing about it all is that the mare has so
often won at long prices. On Monday 25’s were
hardly asked for. Carlita was bred by the breeder
of Kilboy, in Maoriland, and when brought to , Syd-
ney as a yearling was sold for 120 guineas to a
couple of Frenchmen who don't race under their busi-
ness names. It was a good race, too, the ('raven Plate,
and a good field. Getigne, Cyklon, M’oorak, Poly-
crates, Bee and Sasanof being among the company.
Sasanof had a bad passage and got cut out at the
finish. Towards the end of the trip it seemed a cer-
tainty for Getigne, who had settled Bee, Wallace
Isinglass and Woorak ; but just inside the distance
Carlita came on with long ’ur.s, and, wearing down
the Grafton horse, carried Brennan past the post
with her head sticking out in front, a wildly-excited
crowd assisting with assorted yells and cheers. It
was a great race, and it was won by a splendid mare.
Carlita is trained by the Randwick veteran J. Moore,
who hasn’t had any reason to be sorry for himself
since “Roger and Rivers” handed the lady over to
him.
Though Jack Ilice, the Sydney hurdler,
positively refuses to do any good when taken to
Vic. and asked to run the other way round, he has
no objection to doing the right thing at Randwick.
On the first day of the A.J.O. meeting he conducted
12st. 51b. to the front, and on Wednesday humped
13st. 21b. along and landed a 2 to 1 chance. The
explanation is that John is a racehorse and the
others are merely said to be.
WILFRID STEAD, of Maoriland.
Boxer Jimmy Clabby lost a game old plug
when Busra died from injuries suffered in the
Steeple at Randwick on Saturday. The rider stated
that the old plodder broke a blood-vessel half a
mile from the jump which brought him down (it was
the last on the journey) bi t refused to be pulled up.
Busra had leaped past 14 Augusts, and scored two
wins at Randwick, besides minor events. About his
best effort on the flat was a second to Barlow in a
Grafton Cup, but in his old age he became sadly
addicted to turning sevens. The carcase went to the
University for dissection.
What reason impels people to still back
“Baron” Brown’s Wallace Isinglass, which let the
public down with a heavy thud as a three-year-old,
and has done it several times since? At Randwick
last week people could be detected backing him for
the Spring Stakes, a mile and a half. He positively
refused to shift himself when it was necessary. In
the Metropolitan more coin was produced for the
same animal. Why? He is a nice-looking horse and
a good mover, and may some day come to light, but
to go on gambling on the off-chance of the animal
suddenly changing his nature looks like a deliberate
trifling with the inexorable bag. It is the wise
punter who, having once seen a gee-gee squib it,
leaves him alone.
* * * *
Wilfrid Stead, of Maoriland, lias been
attracting notice by, among other things, winning
races at Randwick and joining a sporting solicitor
from over yonder in the purchase of Kilboy. How
much they paid for the colt is a subject which
Stead has not discussed for publication, though
Heaven only knows why he should keep quiet about
it. Probably £S(KM), for ,T. B. Reid, of Elderslie,
who bred Kilboy and sent him across the sea, knows
what a horse is worth, and at the time of the sale
tlie stable reckoned that the £4867 attached to the
A.J.O. blue ribbon for ’l6 only required picking up.
Anyway, at £5OOO Kilboy was well bought, and per-
liajis well sold. The buyers got back the purchase
money within a week, and a nice fat bit over from
MaeShortodds, and have all the rest of the engage-
ments to nothing. Reid got a cheque which paid
him well. On appearances Stead and another have
a fairly sure win or two ahead and a fair chance
of something even bigger. Kilboy and Sasanof are
hot stuff.
Another thing done by Stead was to relieve the
trainer who brought Sasanof and the others over
and put the nags in charge of Murray Hobbs, the
custodian of Kilboy. This sort of thing is some-
times done when horses are losing, but when they
are winning it looks unusual —and Stead s horses
were winning. Consequently there are loud in-
quiries of “Whaffor?” and the answering silence
can be heard at Back o' Beyond. Idle tramei _
relieved of the team had only been borrowed by
Stead for the Australian trip. His habitual job is
to train for E. J. Watt, former owner of Mountain
Knight, in Maoriland. When Stead first started to
follow his father as an owner Dick Mason, for many
years the trainer of the old man's big string, super-
intended the stable, but Mason reckoned it was no
good to him and went to train the Greenwood horses
for a change. Stead is a tall young man who pos-
sesses many acres, great confidence, a red face and
rather more bingy than youth should be burdened
with.
* * * *
Bananaland jockey O’Neill managed to
get into the limelight at Randwick. He complained
to the stewards of a breach of agreement by W. G.
Stead, and had his ease upheld. Next day O’Neill
broke an agreement to ride Batchelor’s l’erssc in the
Metropolitan Stakes in order to get aboard Two
Blues. That time the stewards upheld the other com-
plainant, and asked O’Neill not to ride any more
until November 1.
A Chinaman drew the Maoriland mare
Bee, favorite for the Metropolitan, in one of Tatt.’s
sweeps; but his luck didn’t stick.
* * * *
V.R.C. October meeting is usually studded
with surprises, and the fixture that was transferred
to Caulfield last Saturday was the same old sad
experience for punters. Three out of six winners
started at 16—33 to 1. Green Cap’s victory in the
October Stakes was-the cruellest blow, seeing that the
public had gulled itself into the belief that Shepherd
King, another imported horse in the same stable,
was going to prove his alleged excellence at last.
The King never■ threatened danger, but Green Cap
came with a long run at the finish and beat Lavendo
and Wishing Cap handsomely. Last year it was
Lavendo that brought off the surprise, beating Patro-
bas and De Gama. Outside of the placed horses
Marculfus made the best show. The old son of
Positano is not yet wound up, so he may be ex-
pected to be quite ready for Melbourne Cup meeting
if he keeps going on the track meanwhile. But he
has plenty of weight to carry in the big event.
Luckily the Melbourne handicapper took no risks
with Quinologist. The English horse was weighted
at Bst. for the Caulfield Cup as compared with
6st. 101 b. for the Metropolitan. On the other hand,
the two handicappers were agreed as to the burden
due to Bursar, who is on the Bst. 81b. mark for both
Gups.
* * * *
Saturday next (14th) is Guineas Day at
Caulfield, and some of the stars from Randwick may
be seen in competition with the local talent. At any
rate, the racing on Wednesday (18th) is pretty certain
to reveal some likely winners of the Caulfield Cup.
The Eclipse Stakes is expected to bring out a good
field, in which case the first two horses in the
w.f.a. event may be reasonable investments for the
crowded struggle on the following Saturday. As a
guide to punters the Eclipse Stakes is more trust-
worthy than the Caulfield Stakes, anyhow.
*** ' *
“Arab”: A horse at the recent Agricul-
tural and Pastoral Show at Melbourne won prizes,
chiefly firsts, in the heavyweight hack class, ladies’
hunters, ladies’ hack, and heavyweight hunters ; and,
just to mix things thoroughly, in medium hunters.
The owner acknowledges that the wonderful creature
is 12 years of age. Why have classes at all? Or
judges ?
* * * *
G. W. Dight, the Yetman (N.S.W.) stud-
master, is bringing a grandso* of Carbine out to the
land that knew Old Jack so well. The animal is
Chipilly, a colt by Spearmint from Pretty Polly. The
mother was one of the most famous mares ever raced
in England. None of her family have done much
on the track, but the question of the stud value of
her blood is another matter. It all depends on how
much vitality she had left after racing. The colt is
certainly bred on the very highest racing lines.
“The Hum”: By remaining alive after
being many times accused of being dead the veteran
jockey W. Hart has established another record. Billy
lias just ridden a winning race with Death and is
doing fine. An octogenarian patient of the same
name lately put up a fight in the Wagga (N.S.W.)
hospital, and. as he happened to be on the losing-
side a confusion of identities followed.
Tommy Uren, the welter champion, and
Harry Stone, the American gentleman with the jump,
collided at Sydney Stadium on Saturdav and kept
on doing.it for 20 rounds. Arthur Scott then pro-
nounced judgment in favor of Thomas, and some of
the crowd lodged the caveat of a remonstrating yell.
But as what Scott says goes, the yell doesn’t matter.
And Scott was right, anyhow. Uren outboxed Stone
clearly and had none the worst of the cuddling.
Stone leaped rather less than usual, mainly because
when he leaped Uren sprang after him with a wallop
that frequently deposited itself on a sore place.
’Twas a comfortable victory Bert Spargo
gained over “Babe” Picato at the Melbourne
Stadium. Picato soon swooped down on Spargo with
ginger- laden punches, and looked a certain winner by
the short-cut. But the worried Spargo kept close in
to the tempest, and at infighting was easily master.
As the scrap grew older he became decidedly superior
in every branch of the game, carrying- the battle to
Picato with much vim. The betting (2 to 1 on
Picato) looked a good investment after four rounds,
but Spargo’s fine defence and effective two-handed
attack gained him the verdict.
* * * *
George Gray is back in Australia again.
Before he left Gray was a greedy scorer with compo.
balls. ’Then he took on the ivories, and did more
things. Now he is prepared to meet anybody who
thinks, he has a right to the world’s billiard cham-
pionship. N. S. M’ales has certainly been prolific in
families who have pursued billiards with an educated
cue —-George Gray (father and son), Ered Lindrum
(father and sons Fred and Walter), and Frank Smith
(father and son) ; and the old men are still youth-
ful enough to heave challenges at each other.
“0.K.” : Judged bv bis recent performance
against brother Fred, young Walter Lindrum is mere
than likely to grow to be actual champion of the
world at billiards. At any rate, IV alter is a striking
argument in favor of the theory that the left hand
is the right hand in all games of skill. It is beside
the point that Walter could hardly have been a
brilliant cueist with his right, seeing that the fore-
finger lacks the top joint. The undeniable fact. is
that at billiards, cricket, tennis, quoits, bowls or
battledore and shuttlecock, left-handers are better,
on the average, than right-handers. The proportion
of left-handed men in the world of sport is very
small, but the number of them who shine at games
of skill is verv considerable. It seems natural tor
children to us r e their hands in the way they are
most] v taught not to do. Their parents and guar-
dians'deny them a fair chance to become even ambi-
dextrous. Consequently the average child who is
not “corrected” is apt to handle a ball, bat or cue
more clever! v than the chap who inis been warned
against using his left freely. Heaven knows who laid
down the law of right and left. Mrs. Noah, maybe,
was a foolish woman who taught Shem, Ham and
Japheth to use their spoons at porridge-time in the
way that came least natural to them. As the result
of this bad education, mankind, ever since the Flood,
has been trained in most cases to put its left
shoulder forward and play with its right. It is only
in the boxing ring that the left-handed principle is
established. The pose of the boxer conforms to the
law of Nature, but no right-handed boy adopts.it as
a matter of course first time lie puts on the gloves
It comes natural only to the left-handed kid.
Golfers wlio have pursued the pale pill in
many lands tell you that Kensington is “the only
golf" course in Australia.” Certainly it is one of
the few championship courses in the Commonwealth
and the best in the Ma State. Furthermore, you can
reach it from Sydnev G.P.O. in 20 minutes for 2d.
And now it is threatened with obliteration because
the financial burden that its upkeep entails is grow-
ing too heavy for the club to support. To save the
situation a proposal has been made to do. away with
the separate ladies’ course now maintained within
the men’s playing area, sell some land, and recon-
struct. The girls can now play on their own course
whenever they like. Under the new scheme they
would be warned off on Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays. The objectors, say it wouldn’t be
fair to pi'event men playing with their wives, etc.,
during week-ends. To which the retort of the elect
is • “What ! Play with females on the only days we
have for real golf? God forbid!” But if some com-
promise is not effected there will be no golf at
Kensington for anybody. * *
Wal Gurry, another fine Yic. country foot-
baller, was killed in France lately. Born in Sydney 24
vears ago he later moved with his people to. Out-
trim, and was a dashing and unselfish forward in the
district team.
* * * * *
H. C. A. Harrison, now just on 81, is a
fine Australian sport. Half a century ago he drafted
the scheme which launched the Australian Rules
football code. He still follows the game as ardently
as a juvenile and is a vice-president of the affluent
Melbourne Cricket Club. In the ’6o’s, Harrison.
Barrass, Mount and .T. Harris (who afterwards turned
professional) were crack Victorian amateur athletes
To Harrison’s pace is credited the introduction of
the “bounce,” which is the feature of play under
Australian Rules.
Victorian motor-cyclist Jack Booth
whizzed over a mile of roadway at Adelaide on
Saturday in 37sec., chipping 3-sscc. off his own
world's-record figures for the distance. Booth now
holds the world’s records for half-mile to 10 miles,
all p'ut up on a 7-h.p. Indian. This page is
holding its breath until spmeone does a mile in
Osec., running over 232 dogs, 14 John Hops and
cathedrals, and so settles the argument.
« * * *
Auckland (M.L.) Grammar School has
been flying flags to celebrate a win in the ’ls;’ 16
Schools of the Empire rifle-shooting matches. Con-
ditions were: Teams of eight; seven shots at 200yds.
and 500yds. The Auckland kids won both trophies—
the Prince of Wales Challenge Cup (senior) with
482 points, and Natal Challenge Shield (junior) mu
475. It was one of the best performances in the
history of this more than useful distribution of e.p.
ware. „
■¥• * *
Lieut. Cecil Dyer, going abroad from Mel-
bourne with the first Australian auxiliary mechanic:- 1
transport unit as section commander, is taking with
him an atomising attachment for internal-comoustion
motors, capable of being fitted to almost any cai -
buretter and able to deal with a variety ot heavy
motor fuels, including the soot-producing benzol.
Dyer is going to show his device to the Mar Dmcp,
if he can get three minutes’ attention from the ng-n
party, and will explain that the little contraption
has "met with the earnest approval of the lire Bri-
gade authorities at Melbourne, running a 30 h.p.
salvage-waggon for several weeks on a cheap dis-
tillate (13s. a case) and increasing the mileage by
16 per cent, over that attained on the benzine pre-
viously used (21s. a ease). Until lately Dyer has
been looking after the commercial-vehicle depart-
ment at Dalgety’s. With the price of petrol going
out of sight, motor-lorry sales in this country have
slumped considerably ; wherefore Dyer used to spend
liis spare time experimenting on something wnic.i
might bring lip the sales-records again. His atomisei
is the result. The young man is a native of not.-so-
Slowbart (Tas.), and has been rummaging around m
the insides of motor-engines these 15 years. Latter v
his job has been that of advisory technical office
and examiner in military transport work; now he
is off to see what a “tank” looks like, inside and
out.


Why Don’t YOU Learn
1-
HOW to Box
—how to defend yourself—how to fight your way out of a tight
corner —how to protect yourself, as you surely will have to do some
day? That day may not he far off, so why not learn boxing now?
You know the old adage, “In time of peace, prepare for war.” There
is a volume of good advice in these few words, which you should heed,
if you are a wise man.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
The instruction is practical, simple, and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable move .in Scientific Boxing. You reap the
benefit of my many years’ experience and observation of
the best moves of the world’s best boxers.
You now have the opportunity of cultivating your
natural ability, or making good use of the means which
Nature gave you tor protecting yourself. You will
surely be fair to yourself and learn scientific boxing.
Full particulars of my methods, and fee for tuition, are
given in my interesting 32-page Booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home.” I’d like to send you a copy.
Just write your name and address on this advertisement,
and send it to me, with three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”)
BAKER,
543 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
London Opinion”
Cigarettes.
To cigarette smokers who prefer a
tniid Virginia of rare quality, I can
Very highly recommend
fei
Actual size
“London
Opinion.’*
These cigarettes have a fine,
mild, and distinctive flavor that
puts them in a class by them-
selves.
They are manufactured by the
Ardath Tobacco Co., of London.
Being only 5/- per box of 100,
they are Certainly Very excep-
tional value.
POSTAGE: N.S.W., 6d.
INTER-STATE, Sd.
Write for a copy of my illustrated Catalog
of Cigarettes, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc. It will
interest all smokers. >
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ n
SHELLrr
BENZINE-
HELL'-
NZINE
A
m
shell'
BENZINEi
Solo-
<ondwi
The Machine Supreme
for Australian Roads
Catalogue • , U" with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Zl:. Russell St., Melbourne
PATON
m
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RICNEY SHOES WILL PLEASE YOU!
We can safely say this, because RIGNEY
SHOES are made in such a variety of
shapes and sizes that there is a style to
suit every taste and a fit for every foot.
We illustrate a Patent Calf Oxford Shoe,
with Wing Cap and Latest Perforations. A
very high-grade, made-to-order style.
Price - 30
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of ottr Catalog.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
/
t
lIHHHHII
n
'THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
lb Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION —Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
m
J:
rfTii
Si)
Mi
1/
Vi
*7 WON'UHof
i Shirts
•5'6
fPost Free)
“Veribest” Shirtings
arc the Best that
money can buy. Every
Pattern is Guaranteed
to come through the
Wash Unharmed, and
to give Satisfaction in
Wear.
“Veribest” Shirts are
produced in our own
Workrooms. We are,
therefore, personally
responsible for each
garment.
“Veribest” Cutting and
Making are in a Class
of their own.
“Veribest” Value, con-
sidering- Quality and
Price, is the Highest
obtainable.
THE “LOUNGE” STYLE
is the one illustrated hero. With its Soft
Fronts and Soft Double Cuffs it offers the
maximum of Ease in Wear, while the
OXFORDS CAMBRICS ZEPHYRS
in which it is obtainable, by reason of their Beautiful Quality and Exclusive Patterns,
meet every demand as to Service and Style :
“Veribest” Shirts may be made to measure at 1/- extra cost.
POST YOUR ORDER AYE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
Lincoln Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail.”
244-254 Flinders Street MELBOURNE.


COMFORT, WEAR
and APPEARANCE
are the features which commend this
English-style Oxford Shoe to men
who want something out-of-the-
ordinary. In Tan Willow Calf with
medium soles. A Summer Shoe.
25/-
Black Box Calf 19/9
WE PAY POSTAGE.
I
Macnai
For Distinctive Footioear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
ELEY ‘Fourlong*
A .410 bore 2$ inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
m
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
=M
mmmmm
EIEY 410
‘Universal'
m
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L» LONDON
YOU
can maKe
money by
selling or even giving
away your Benzine
Engine and replacing
it with a new I H C
Gaso-Eero Engine-F/tCT
AsK our nearest branch
for particulars.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO OF AUS Ply. Ltd.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne
(671 Adelaide Perth Launceston
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
IsYour Comfort
JSV
life
Worth l9r“
mm
Buy it TO-DAY!
• 1 '
ot ted.
(A KrovVs j how
r
VAGONAi. .
M
’ll
ls 3
The
Evermore Stropper
The only Stropper in existence which
Razor Blade in the CORRECT
AUTOMATICALLY SHARPENS
HEEL-TO-TOE MANNER.
15/-
Special adapters provided with each Stropper for
ALL MAKES OF SAFETY-RAZOR BLADES —
Single- or Double-edged.
As the Blade moves UP and DOWN the STROP
moves LATERALLY across the edge—THE
TRUE BARBER’S STROKE WITH EACH PULL.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE IT.
15/-
If unable to procure, write Box 1003, G.P.0., Sydney, or Box 14
G.P.0., Auckland, N.Z.
mm
Hair Powder
Makes the hail- bright and clean, without
ivetting, trouble or danger. The only dry
shampoo that readily brushes out.
British Made.
3d. packet everywhere.
Icilma is pronounced Eye Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
m
Miles
Cheaper
and
Auslralian
Quality starts in the
Raw Materials.
Realising that to finish right you must
start right, the manufacturers of Barnet
Glass Tyres insist that the raw materials
employed shall be the best the world
produces. From cotton fields and rubber
plantations to the tyre complete, quality is the prime
essential —in materials, in workmanship, in finish.
Thus no imported tyre, no matter how high-priced,
contains better materials than the superfine cotton
and the hard, live Para Rubber used in /£)
In the build of Barnet Class Tyres more rubber
is used than in imported tyres, there being upwardj
of a dozen layers to each ply of canvas instead of
two or three. You have to insist on Australian-
made Barnet Glass Tyres or expensive imported
makes, giving less service will, in most cases, be
supplied to you.
Barnet Glass Tyres. m three styles. Three ribbed. Square-Treed
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
Fnnnrlart Rnhhrr Industry in Australasia,
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia,
Branches in all Australasian Centres.
The State Savings Bank of Victoria
INCREASE IN RATE OF INTEREST.
ON DEPOSITS
The Rate of Interest payable from Ist October, 1916, will be
3% PER CENT. ON SUMS FROM £1 TO £350
(Instead of the present rate of 34 per pent.) ;
Also,
The Rate of Interest payable on
VICTORIAN SAVINGS BANK DEPOSIT STOCK
Will be
334 per CENT. ON SUMS FROM £lO TO £lOOO,
Any depositor may invest sums up to £lOOO in this
ordinary Savings Bank Account. This Sto(
Head Office,
State Savings Bank
From Ist October, 1916. .
Stock, in addition to the amount in
is FREE OF INCOME TAX.
QEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General.
his
Melbourne.
“Enzedder” : Uncle Sam’s steamers cross-
ing the Atlantic have enormous stars and
stripes painted on both sides of their hulls,
bow and stern, and between these flags the
space is occupied by the ship’s name. At
night brilliant lights illuminate the whole
gaudy scheme. The first steamer to deco-
rate herself like this was signalled by a
British cruiser. “What ship is that?” The
reply came: “United States mail steamer
so and so.” Said the cruiser: “Thanks.
Thought you were a Christmas tree out of
season.”
“Rag”: The cargo included a consign-
ment of Yankee alarm-clocks and one case
was broached in the hold. Two dozen time-
pieces were hidden handy in the ’tween
decks ready to remove when the gang was
going off shift. As the men crowded down
the gangway the G.P.O. bells chimed the
hour, and every one of the 24 alarms stowed
in bags and billies suddenly made their
clatter. If anyone knows the name and
address of the joker who wound them up
he’d better keep mum, otherwise he will be
accessory to murder before the fact.
“Exile”: What wonderful roads they
have all through the State of California
(U.S.A.) ! From Seattle, Washington, the
best-lighted town in the United States,
to San Diego, the cleanest in the Far South,
one can motor nearly all the way on State
highways—smooth, broad asphalt roads
based on concrete like the old Roman roads
that are still in use in Italy. Last year
the State spent £3,500,000 on these superb
boulevards, and during the next five years
it will spend another five millions and
receive five more from the U.S._ Govern-
ment on a £ for £ basis. The municipalities
owning these roads take a pride in them
and frequently plant roses and palms along
the sidewalks for miles. The most grateful
sight to an Australian looking out from
either railways or highways is the really
magnificent growth of eucalyptus _ all down
the Pacific slope. The Amurikins plant
firs and pines in their cemeteries to keep
the dead company, and grow Australian
gum-trees elsewhere to make the living
happy. There are regular forests of euca-
lyptus all through California grown for the
hardwoods, and the nascent export trade in
Australian lumber will before very long
be extended hither. In the same way we
sent wattle seeds to S. Africa and now pay
heavily for S. African bark for tanning. One
has .to go “abroad” to hear our timbers pro-
perly praised. Why, the Pacific Union Club,
the leading club in San Francisco, spent
£20,000 in decorating its gorgeous clubhouse
on Nolb’s Hill with Australian woods made
up into furniture and decorations!
A word or two concerning Australia’s
Morrison from “Through the Chinese Revo-
lution,” by Professor Farjenel :
Dr. Morrison, who was for a long time corres-
pondent to the Times at Pekin, was amongst those
appointed to be political councillors [to Yuen
Shai Kai’s Chinese Republican Government] and later
on a Frenchman was selected as military councillor.
These gentlemen have handsome salaries, one of
£2600 and the other of £2400. The work is a
sinecure, since even if they took the trouble to
make reports the latter would be consigned to the
waste-paper basket by jealous Ministers.
Perhaps that is why we never hear of Morri-
son nowadays.
No less than 46 members of the London
Stock Exchange have changed their German
names for English ones since the war began.
Some of the anglicisations are ingeniously
humorous, whilst others suggest the case of
the famous Mr. Bugg who changed his name
to Norfolk Howard. Broker Zossenheim
could be neither translated nor abbreviated
into English, so he called himself Edgar
Davis. P. Herman Mosenthal was in a
similar predicament, so he got himself born
again as Philip Henry Richards. Weisberg
lost none of the meaning of his name by
changing it to Whitehill, nor did Spielmann
by merely dropping the final n. Grunebaum
will always be able to recognise his old self
under the disguise of Greenwood, and even
Herman Diinkelsbiihler preserves a fragment
of his former identity now that he answers
to the name of Harvey Dunkley. The choic-
est example of transformation by amputation
was afforded by Wilmersdoerffer. Henceforth
he will stop short at Wilmers, which sounds
just as English as you please.
“The Wanderer” re-introduces the lion,
member:—
Though unheard of in politics these days, W. C.
Wall once loomed large on the N. S. Wales horizon.
It used to be said that he had only to send his old
boots up to Rylstone to secure his return on polling
day. Originally he was one of the members for
Mudgee, along with Bob Jones and Jack Haynes ; but
when the electorate was cut up, he went for Ryl-
stone, and held it till Fitzpatrick, now sitting for
Orange, pipped him. AVall first got into Parliament
in the middle ’Bo’s at a by-election. It looked
a certainty that Rouse would be returned unopposed ;
but a surprise was sprung. At 11 o’clock on polling-
morning Jack Barry and another drove out along the
Cassilis-road, where Wall was working. After a few
words Billy got up in the trap, with his bowyangs
unremoved, in his short-sleeved flannel shirt and
without a coat, and was hurried off to Mudgee. The
returning-officer was just about to declare Rouse
elected unopposed, when Jack Barry dragged AVall
on to the platform, and the man in bowyangs was
nominated as a fit and proper person. To the amaze-
ment of almost everybody, Rouse withdrew and AVall
was declared elected.
Town-clerk Ellery, of Melbourne, bears
many of the marks of a progressive citizen.
There is a bill before the Vic. Assembly relat-
ing to the public acquisition of properties
on low-lying land or in overcrowded areas.
Giving evidence before the Housing Commis-
sion the other day, Ellery urged speed in
passing this bill and gave reasons. But such
acquisitions are only pouring water through
a. sieve while suburban .councils, composed
largely of land-agents and lawyers, are
allowed to encourage slum-making. The re-
cent Yarra overflow showed that local coun-
cils had given sanction to new streets which
were under water when heavy rain came. It
is little use passing beneficent laws for the
removal of slums at large public cost while
Government does nothing to prevent the man-
ufacture of other slums for private profit.


STILL GROWING.
Meggitt Ltd.
of To-day
Greets...
Meggitt Ltd.
of Yesterday.
I
m
m
tag
nn.
mill
M\
3
k/L
iDirfi
Uliii
M
«
mi
V
{%
v
rr
•U>
A
S)
WUSh-*^
y^.
O
-N
PAINTERS, Keep Australia Prosperous by insisting on Meggitt’s Linseed Oil. Made in Australia by Australians.
For lull particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne;
Wm. Adams «Sc Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD.. Linseed Oil Manufacturers, Parramatta, n.s.w.


L
-v>
Mi
ki
Mt
Nervousness
When a sudden
fright makes you
jump or drop
things it is a sign
that the nerves
are unstrung and
probably the
whole system
run down. This
condition may be induced by too much work,
insufficient sleep, mental worries, an injury, or
the abuse of alcohol. As a preliminary, there
may be pains in the head, irritability, sleepless-
ness, general indisposition, headache, smiting
and constipation.
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once braces and steadies the nerves, irritation
departs, sleep and restful nights follow, and in
a very short time the whole system is restored
to a normal condition. Fishers Phospherine is
also taken for Backache, Rheumatism, &c. it
is good for indigestion. All chemists and stores
1 - per Bollle. Fmjr times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists,
337 GEORGE BTREET, BYDNEV, N.S.W. rso*
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes o1 deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc.,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'The None is
{the Guam fee
of Me
Qualify
m
ON THOSE ]
SULTRY DAYS
when every remedy for
discomfort seems but to
increase discomfort
YARDLEY’S
EAU-DE-COLOGNE
is a revelation of delight.
The evaporating spirit
wafts a note of refreshing
flower - scented Spring
breezes to the jaded
nerves.
, Done in London
\ since 1770.
8 Mew Bond ST,
London
*£2* HI
m
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines many of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles —the
dippF pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, onr
C S ‘ panel with the short stuffing and leather points,
the'long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers,
4-bar nickej-plated stirrups and Si RCINGIiF. The
knee-pads are well made and strong avd the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so" when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-8
Freight Free
for Cash
10 anv port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, With rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER § STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers &. Harness Maßers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
S*, 7<
A
W
yfZ
&
X
VAL
Ss
'rM.
M
X
\
b
Si r;
l&r&
N
<,..' I
Y
/
\\
%//
V \
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible—
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if yom body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kru cben), Ltd.,
68 De..nsgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
oi- advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Hites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 31- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the - Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated bp Act of Parliament.
mHE TWENTY-NINTH ORDINARY
JL GENERAL MEETING of Members
will be held in the Royal Exchange oi
Monday, 16th October, 1916, at noon.
Business :
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to oOtli
September, 1916. ,
To elect one Director in place of W. * •
Goddard, Esq., who retires under Clause
82 of the Articles of Association, and ' vll °
offers himself for re-election.
To elect an Auditor in place of Mr. C- -
Le M. Walker—who retires under Clause
131 of tl 1 Articles of Association and <>
fix the amount of his remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance
with the Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
By order of the Board the Share Regisß', l '
will be closed from 3rd October to D •
October inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Buildings,
23. 25 O’Connell Street,
3rd October, 1916.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.It.M.: And do you think Australia will
be safer if file word goes forth that she is what the
Stadium calls a quitter? Make no mistake about it
—Australia has never been in so much danger as
she will be if she says “No.”. .. . Karl Aranson:
Shsli! Not a word ! With the blessings of those
two we shall die happy... .Trafalgar: You ve got a
nerve to try to work off Mark Twain’s jumping frog
yarn at this time of day V Working Woman:
There’s no way of getting at such a case except by
compulsion. . . .M.A.M.: No hope. How it got through
the post beats us. . . .N.L.W.: Frail little things
that lisp because they cannot speak. .. , V.F.11.:
Faint muddle of thought and metre.... Med: You
don’t say how soon the doulble divorce
followed.... Wooher: You don't seem to have
any idea of the metre of the original....
J.McQ.: The basket gets it 5.8.: And so
the wicked flirt was punished with a fearful
kiss. . . .R.T.E.: Dullest sermon ever preached....
J.H.8.: Bumps and wobbles... .J.H.C.: Not up....
G.D.: What is it? Looks like an insane telegram. .. .
N.C.: Bright scrap, but too thin... .E.H.G.:
Would be better if some of it scanned
and a little of it rhymed... .R.C.: Apology
accepted. .. .L.R.F.: Y~ou only repeat the idea
over again. .. .T.T.: “Prayer for our Soldiers
at the Front” is a poor attempt.... Myponga:
No ideas; sick verse.... J.K.8.: Suitable for a lady’s
album in 1825. .. .H.P.: Can’t think of anything
yours would suit.... Bill Badd: Find out what blank
verse is. Then avoid it and try rhyme. .. .M.J.:
Nothing in it.... Ref: Any kid of five should be
able to improve on that ... .3. Cell: Not up... .
Oueyn: Sentimental interest 0n1y... .R.G.: Doesn’t
get there.... W.J.8.: Better, but wouldn’t be any
good if you wrote it 20 times unless you got an
idea into it. .. .M.0.M.: We don’t want parodies
and your attempt is one of the injurious sort....
A.C.: Solemn appeal to sports, written in verse with
wooden legs, rejected. .. .T.B. and C.: Is it the cus-
tom in your district to smash women’s jaws merely
because they are spinsters,.... Third Waltz: Old
yarn; poor verse. .. .S.A.K.: Verse is as clumsy as
the phrase itself... .B. A.: “Land of Home” has
some excellent lines, but doesn’t keep up a fair
average. .. .T.F.W.: Obvious parodies like yours are
mud. Yarn amusing, but not amusing enough....
A.W.: No use... . Wairadulla: An “enarmoured kiss”
sounds difficult. . . .Spraggs: Not quite... .G.R.H.: Not
skill enough for the Dago “harp;” Try a Jew’s....
Franklin: Sounds like a sprint by traction-engines
over hurdles.... D.W.L.: Not up. “End of the Day”
best... .M.8.P.: Sorry “Mistaken” and “Firelight”
too weak.... Bluegum: We have had thousands better
on the same theme... .8.N.N.: A man who rhymes
“war” with “care” would rhyme this wet weather
with goloshes.... Tibs: Pretty awful.... Sonnet:
Fair as exercises. Worth keeping on. ...M.K.: Must
go back. .. .St. Jimmy : Misses. .. .M.A.: That bird
has a lot on his conscience. No wonder he is dreary.
. ...L.D.: Sentimental interest 0n1y.... S.L.: You
state the case clearly:
... .L.W.: The metre isn’t “all right,” nor the sense,
nor any blessed thing. . . .Jane: Write something new.
....J. Jack: Good luck to the boy, anyhow....
Flyer Cook: It’s a good yarn, but it’s very 01d....
L.H.8.: Received; thanks... .F.G.: Thanks; he has
been swatted. .. .M.McK.: Only for service in Aus-
tralian territory.... E.McD.: See B. 15/6/’16....
Franca: It would be cheaper to put a new pane in
the window. Arguments with landlords don’t pay.
... .‘A.R.O.: Angus and Robertson, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, were the publishers... .W. 8.: “Den’s”
“Singing Soldiers” appeared in B. 23/12 /’15....
Port Pirie: We had our say in B. 25/5/’16....
Clarion: Thank you. . . .St. J.: Ditto. .. .Pte. E.:
Will make inquiries... .11. F.S. (on service): Afraid
not... .H. W. Findley: That quail story is the oldest
in the world bar one —the one Eve told Adam....
Range: Very well. Young Kaeppel is all Australian
and not “of Dutch parentage.” We won’t argue
about it—will merely refer to Webster: “Parentage
—Descent from parents or ancestors; extraction.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.R.: Good thing for a cannibal paper. We’ve
given up the practice ourselves... .Kay: Only a
cubist could do worse... .H.C.: Haven’t the time J o
disentangle your brilliant idea... .T.11.G.: Out of
perspective—out of everything... .Harry C.: You
can’t bridge the long wait between the two events.
Tlie Commission appointed by Vic. Par-
liament to ascertain why the country is
flocking to congested Melbourne would get
some light on the subject by applying to
Morwell. In that town a building is to
be erected for the State Savings Bank and
prospects looked good for the local brick
worss until the architect from Melbourne
stipulated that only Melbourne bricks should
be used and, further, that the sand must
be brought from Frankstpn. In answer to
protests the Minister of Works admitted
that the Morwell bricks were quite as good
as any other, but he washed his hands of
the bother by remarking that the Depart-
ment has no control over the Savings Bank.
And having washed his hands before the
multitude he said “I am innocent of the
blood of this just person,” and handed him
over to the Savings Bank trustees to be
crucified.
“Tasman”: During the long meatless
debate on the Address in-Reply, the Speck’s
M’s.P. all howled because nothing was being
done to repair the timber wastage. What
nonsense! Why, only the other day the
Hobart City Council solemnly planted 12
trees in one street, one for each alderman
and another for the town clerk. The next
move is to plant one for every M.P.. and if
you can only get the practice adopted in the
other States, and at Canberra by the Com-
monwealth, I can see the time when Aus-
tralia will be almosfca forest.
The cocky Crown Prince he’d pinch his nose and
pull his ear,
Fill him with gunpowder instead of beer,
Then feed him on some heated mustard
Until the beggard busted!
The bits he’d bury in the deep,
Where sharks and fish their watches keep.
He’d go enlist himself and stop the German’s capers,
Only someone must stay at home and read the
papers!


m
m
m
4!
n
s;
I
53
/»J
g
j=t~
s-j
-
%
=SgSs
gS
s@te=
ggtsg
•m
-=%
IT IS A BEALE KALQPHQNE-
tfie musicaf instrument wfiicii recreates
tfic finest efforts of {fiG \iorWs' Best
tnfertainers. Tjf\c tuffricfi tone ripples
forffi m a (Pood ofmelody as artistic
ana as perfect as tfiou6f\ (fie actual per-
former were in tfic room.
You wilf enjoy hearinri your favourite
artist on tfie BEALE KALOPHONE.
Made m many styles.
Also at
232 KING STREET. NEWTOWN.
Bathurst, Orange. Lismore. Newcastle. Goulburn and Wagga.
Victoria . Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania : Williams Bros . Hobart. Maples. Launceston.
Sout'- Australi. : John Evans Ltd.. Adelaide.
& c? LTP
333 George Si Sydney.
Factory :
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE.
Queensland . 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street. M ary boro ug'h. Flinders Stree< Townsville
Rockhampton Sydney Sfeet, IVlackay
Cairns.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabins s-de-luxe ,
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
•MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
M A CRAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIUNS
for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 14.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 18.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 21.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 25.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 28.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 21.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking. Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Rank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) . . £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yauwood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All neiv business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking |Jo.
of Sydney, [united.
Capital Paid-up ... ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses. M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq. ; and F. W. Hixson,_Esq.
General Manager: 11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |) eu > Zealand.
SYDNEY RRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . • • • 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
'coiubs ‘jCtj ‘pucj
-BSZ AV3HJ ‘BIJCJISUV uo
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
receives deposits
at Interest, for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Liae to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BET
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
Leave Auckland.
OCT. 31
NOV. 28
DEC. 25
JAN. 23.
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD HOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR ILA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 9th November. *MOAN A, 7th December.
‘Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—2nd November, 30th November.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific. ’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Winter T°«nt» Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia., Friendly Islands
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street,
Tonga
Sydney.
Something' Unique in
m
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
for further particulars to
CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BURNS, PHILP &
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
#s*
Directors:
£3,500 000
£2,675,000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles lv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, xU.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Sliepheard Edgec-liff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney, London Office-29 Threadneedle St, E.C.
,341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECI. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters 'of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the AVorld.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
mm
JBank* ( Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
torTii General Banking 1 Business prPnTpTi
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER, Governor
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd. ,BedfordLaboratones, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
IHh
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire insurances
Marine Risks . •
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise.
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN , HAIGH, General Manager.
the
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT PIBIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Oct. 20 and Nov. 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
RUPARA, Oct. 14.
MORI ALTA, Oct. 21.
PARING A, Oct. 28.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUITHL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“llimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modem Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
OCT. 25, NOV. 15, DEC. 6, DEC. 27.
\pply:— O CE AN I C STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and- spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACIIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
r\YEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COi'FS
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumban,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-.0-date
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. A 6 Ss. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
* ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T. 5.5. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T S.S. “ ICANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T. 5.5. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
l!s.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
sis. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip
the enjoyment of beautiful-scenery should tiave y
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steameisP°
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant,
first port of call, First and Second Saloon ticket
interchangeable with all Interstate C ° rap^.frfrade '
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fij lraae,
particulars on application. 1' or dates of sailing
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


5.'
"*
'£**+**oo*sm*1 9 m
V * s
»»*•*
•>
II
■j|S
a," *
/** 4 %• “«•
SIS
K
fe.
s,«
f
n>
€
r
sa
• ’
L
7
Insist on your dealer
supplying you. He can
easily obtain O-Cedar
Catalogues and Dealer
Samples and Prices from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.
37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
o€feM°p
s
O-Cedar Polish-Mop
(Triangle Model) is a great
time and labour - saving
device, plus a hygienic
house-cleaning appliance. It
Insures thoroughly clean and,
therefore, sanitary surround-
ings because it picks up and
holds all dust and dirt. It has
an adjustable and convenient
handle, 54 inches —an innova-
tion appreciated by housewives
the world over.
“Cleans as
It Polishes”
SIMPLY add a few drops
of O-Cedar Polish to a
cloth dampened with
water. Go over any
piece "of furniture or
woodwork, and polish
with a dry cloth. See
how O-Cedar cleans, dusts,
polishes and really beautifies all at *pne time.
ar
Polish
fßegisterecTin principal countries]
produces a hard, dry, gloss-like lustre or polish that is last-
ing. This lustre is retained 5f you put a few drops of O-Cedar
on your dust-cloth as you;use it daily.
O-Cedar Polish is sold by tall leading dealers, in convenient
sizes. Pry it. You will be i delighted with the work it does.
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Chicago London Toronto Buenos Aires
Cable. Address: ‘Ocedar‘
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(N on-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
m
m
m
W
1
A£l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
A*s® fj E »™l Street, North Melbourne: 7 Arcade.
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
m
No. 304 A
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (EL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P.0., Melbourne, Vie.
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-Lnch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from to
lf-anch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work tjse Oster Machines.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[1
THIS RAZOR ENDURES
every test you like to give it.
THE- “PLUM”
is the last word in Scientific Razor Manufacture. Ft
retains its edge the longest, shaves in quickest time, and
cuts out all face-hacking annoyance. Get one to-day.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free o£ charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Rat.or, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a Handsome Present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
*
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
CSV <
HU'-
Viv*
It’s a Masterpiece—
“ The PLUM”
Razor.
m
Abbey
Shoes are
DISTINCTIVE IN APPEARANCE,
PERFECT IN FIT AND SATIS-
FACTORY IN WEAR.
We illustrate a very high-grade Tan
Willow Elastic-side Boot, specially made
for Farm and Station Use. It is very
smart in appearance, a long-wearing boot,
and most comfortable.
Price - 28/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ab¥ey,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourna.
largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—-
* 4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 600
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
use since 1596.
sassnuuisuMi . „ .
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng»
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes*
Va
“ARABiS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AHABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
anv Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia-


“Definiteness —a characteristic of successful people”
—anil we might add, whiskies. It is the definite dis-
tinctiveness of the flavor of Thorne’s Whisky that is
responsible for much of its success.
Be definite when ordering.
Say THORNE’S—and see that you GET IT.
THORNE'S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.’’ <
In the black square bottle and of superb quality. [3
HOME-MADE HAIR GROWER
THAT DOES MARVELS.
During the last few years announcements
have appeared occasionally telling how to
make a really good hair tonic that would
actually make the hair grow, and it gives
us great pleasure to learn that so many
who have tried it have obtained such re-
markable results. One lady writes that
immediately after reading the formula she
went to her chemist and had him put up as
directed, 1 ounce of Lavona de Composee,
i dram Menthol Crystals and 3 ounces Bay
Rum. She took this home and, although
her hair had been falling out terribly and
she was threatened with baldness, she was
astonished and delighted to note that the
falling out of the hair soon stopped, and the
hair itself began to grow in an amazing
manner. In fact, she states that it has
already grown nearly eight inches in a little
over two months. Moreover, her hair is
now brighter, glossier and more luxuriant
than ever and is still growing. She rubbed
the tonic into the roots twice a day for the
first three weeks, but now applies it only
once a day. It is especially interesting to
note from this and other reports that this
home-made hair grower not only makes the
hair grow most marvellously, but it also
destroys the dandruff germ and keeps the
hair roots and scalp in a perfectly healthy
and normal condition. — Advt.
ALLAN LAMPLESS KEROSENE ENGINES.
The simplest, most durable, economical and reliable British-built
Engine on the market.
-1
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Lampless Type Kerosene
Engines.
3i, 54, 7,11,15 & 19 B.H.P-
Lamp Type Petrol Engines.
4,6, 8 B.H.P.
Our present stocks are all that will be available during the
period of the war.
MARSHALL PORTABLE ENGINES.
m
Specially designed to suit Australian
conditions.
Britannia Engines are fitted with
circular fireboxes, giving extra ground
clearance.
Tested for 1201 b. working pressure.
STOCKS ON HAND.
4,6, 8,10 &16 N.H.P.
Every Engine guaranteed. Write for
Catalogue and Prices.
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO. LTD., Albert Street, Brisbane.
IN BANANA LAND
The fight for conscription has re-united
a number of old political enemies. Ex-
Minister Adamson and ex-Minister Grant,
late bitter adversaries, now work amicably
together for the good Australian cause;
Robert Philp and Tom Givens stand on the
national platform together; and Mat Reid,
the old Labor stalwart, rises beside Billy
Hughes and tries to get the runaway Bris-
bane Laborites back on to the rails.
The Federal Government is willing to
allow an investigation into the sugar indus-
try by the Inter-State Commission pro-
vided the agreement made with the refining
companies for manufacture and sale is not
open to review. What is there to inquire
into if this be excluded? It is the thing on
which the whole business now hinges. An
inquiry on the basis suggested would be
about'as useful as an investigation into the
wheat business, excluding the operations and
effect of the pool.
“McNorth”: On the Bloomfield tinfield
(N.Q..) a hatter lately had an experience
sufficient to put most men off the lonely life
for a while. His only companion was a cat
which had a habit of sleeping on the bunk.
One night a slight noise woke the hatter, and
by the moonlight he saw enough to freeze a
man stiff. Across his waist, pinning his arms
to his sides, and right round the bunk, hold-
ing man and bed together, was an enormous
carpet snake. It had two turns of its tail
around the cat, which was already crushed
and dead, and the ugly mouth was beginning
the dreadful sliming process. The hatter
couldn’t move his arms, and the slightest
attempt to move his body caused the snake
to turn its head and hiss nastily. So the
prisoner had to lie still with the pressure of
the ice-cold living rope across his body till
the reptile had finished sliming and swallow-
ing the cat. When that was done it
loosened its hold and glided to the floor,
where it made itself into a neat coil and
went to sleep. Then Bill grabbed his gun
and blew the horror back to the devil.
“Will G. Buck”: When the Federal
Bureau of Science and Industry investigates
the priekly-pear curse, it should pay close
attention to the work of A. Martin, who a
few years ago gave a demonstration at Rush-
cutter’s Bay (Sydney), in which a solution
sprayed on the pear reduced it to something
like burnt paper in nine days. Later on, he
experimented on 47 acres belonging to Harry
Miller, of Bingara (N.S.W.), and made a
good job of it. Martin, who lives at Cairns
these'days, discovered his solution in .an
effort to win a reward.
Sporting offer in an Ipswich paper:—
Will anyone knowing the whereabouts of the Fox
Mascot, taken off motor-car, from Palais Hotel yard,
let advertiser know, for the pleasure of seeing either
thief or owner get a jolly good hiding? , Ipswich.
“T. 0.1.” : What is left of Canning Downs,
one of Queensland’s historic homesteads, has
just changed hands. The place, named after
Lord Canning, . was discovered by Allan
Cunningham in 1827, and was first occupied
by Patrick Leslie, one of Bananaland’s pio-
neers. He came to Australia in the late
30’s of last century. Warwick of to-day
formed a part of the station. Leslie sold
to a Mr. Davidson, who built the homestead.
The holding in those days embraced all the
country on both sides of the Condamine —
named after Lieut. Condamine, A.D.C. to
Governor Darling—from Warwick to the
head of the stream. F. J. C. Wildash
bought from Davidson. Under the ’66 and
’6B Land Acts he secured a large area on the
north side of the Condamine and sold that
part to Bettington, of Brindley Park
(N.S.W.). Canning he sold to J. D.
Macansh in 1875. The property then con-
sisted of 68,000 acres of secured land. About
the first ■.’9o’s Macansh began to cut up and
dispose of the outskirts of the station to
farmers; in ’96, when he died, subdivision
began in earnest. The purchaser of the
remnant is J. H. S. Barnes, son of one of
the pioneers of the Richmond River.
“Bai’coo” ; The female drover has come at
last. Two of her passed through Blackall
recently with a mob of sheep. Father was
in charge, two daughters were shepherds
and another was cook. The old man says
that when the fourth chick is a year older
she is to be the horse tailor. Many years
THE CHOSEN.
THE TIGER: “Do you think ladies who dance like that are select?”
THE LAMB: “Dm, don't know about that. But they are generally selected.”
ago “Madam Sibley,” a once well-known
mesmerist, and her daughter, drove ISOO
ewes which they bought: during a very bad
season in the latter ’Bo’s at sixpence a head
near Hay (N.5.W.).. The ladies took them
through to Victoria, then flowing with water
and grass. The profit was about 1000 per
and Madam never went on the boards
again.
“Dead Finish”: The recent shearers’
strike in Bananaland brought forth remi-
niscences galore from the older hands of ’9l.
When the latter trouble was at its height on
Milo station three trusted officers were told
off to guard Gooyea shed, on an out-station,
where 3500 bales of wool were stacked.
Whilst camped in this shed they used a slush
lamp by which to read. One night they
decided to let it burn out instead of getting
up to douse it. Next morning came word
from the head station to the out-station to
keep a good watch, as Milo shed had been
burnt that night. When the strike finished
it transpired that two strikers had been told
off to burn the out-shed on the same night
as Milo was gutted, but when they saw the
lamp still alight they funked the job. Lazi-
ness gets its reward sometimes.
“K.M.” writes of a man who kept his
word: —
Antonio Picone, who was hanged with comic opera
embellishments in Melbourne Gaol for the murder of
Giuseppe Lauricella, was working underground as a
shoveller with contracting parties in Mount Morgan
mine for about two years. He was known locally
as “Tony the Ski,” and was alternately very reticent
and very communicative. He made no secret of the
fact that he intended to “do” for one of his countrv -
men, and many who worked with him can recall the
boast. I remember on one occasion he had an
Irishman for a mate in one stope, and when the
ore happened to be fired down in big pieces and
had to be broken with a spalling hammer to regu-
lation size, the Irishman would *in a tactful way
refer to “Your countryman who took you down.”
Tony would find the only escape for his pent-up feel-
ings by grasping the hammer and every lump would
soon be smashed to shovelling size while the mate
grinned and took it easy. Picone’s story was that
on arrival in Australia he was induced by a com-
patriot to invest his £lOO in a fruit business, but
neglected to have the terms of agreement put on
paper. He lost his money and from that time the idea
of revenge was always in his mind. Picone was also
a member of the local rifle club, and before Italy
joined the Allies tried several times to enlist with
the A.I.F. His career as a rifle-shot ended rather
abruptly. One day, while shooting at 600 yards, he fired
his first 11 shots in the same way as a machine-gun
might rake a small infantry advance from one side
of the range to the other. But his last shot was a
bull’s-eye. On retiring to the 800 mound, he was
not allowed to fire on account of some miners going
on shift who would pass between the 400 and 500
mounds, but well below the elevation of a bullet,
Tony considered this an insult, picked up his rifle,
and away he went in a huff. His rifle was
re-purchased for £3, which amount he donated to
patriotic funds. He didn’t want money. His one
object was revenge, and when his chance came he
A+vn.vnt
s . .
Bananaland’s whitest elephant in rail-
ways is the bit between Manly and Cleve-
land. Last financial year it ate up £7400
, ~ , • v rtniv 99
more than its working expenses Only 22
out of the 5b lines earn their teed. me
proudest is the Geraldton-Mourilyan tram,
which made £35 2s. Sd. per cent. The other
biggest earners are also in the North—
TT , , Tl . vi i no Qo „„„
Hughenden to Julia Creek, £l3 8s pei
cent.; the Towers to Hughenden, £1- pei
cent. The next biggest loser to the Cleve-
land line is the Townsville, to Stewart’s
Creek, which swallowed up £6OOO. Wouldn’t
it be worth while finding out why these
lines don’t pay? Presumably estimates
were made about each of them. Let’s see
what it was that went wrong with the
reckoning.
Heart Ache.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soft winds, and little memories of flowers
And silken skirts drawn over polished floors)
And waft of fans and maze of melodies
Golden and low; of smiling, parted lips
And eyes that Seem to ask, and.turn away;
Feather of shadows on green, slumberous
lawns;
Quiver of 1 roses waiting for the rain ;
Nasturtiums streaked with orange fingering;
Clouds pale as phantoms, fleeing from the
moon,
And silver stars that sprinkle midnight
moods;
Ripples, that almost reached me, of bird
song
Revealed by leaves that rustle without
touch ;
Notes in the distance of a trumpet’s call;
The sound of waters dripping to a pool
From unseen fountains in an unseen wood.
Only one thing is real and all my own —
That I can feel, alive within my breast....
The pictures fade, the music falls asleep,
The tapping heels have fled the waxed
floors —
Only my heart-ache seems to fill the world!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 7, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindaii, —
An otherwise peaceful week has been
humming with the yea and nay of the con-
scription argument. After Hughes had had Ins
say on Wednesday night at toe Exhibition
Hall on behalf of the lads whose handgrip
of confidence in their Australian brothei s is
still warm, I wouldn’t be a “nay. 1d be
away.
The “social” item of the week wasn t the
jubilee celebration of the Wesley Chinch,
Wesleyans being a sober, devil-fearing folk,
but Lady Goold-Adams set in motion a
bazaar in aid of the local branch of
the sect with as much vice-regal warmth as
even pure merino Anglican sinners might
have looked for.
My dear, we are going to do something
really sensible next week. We women are
to meet at the Town Hall to form an asso-
ciation for pushing the sale of Australian-
made goods, or. when such are not procur-
able, goods made within the Empire. That's
how we feel just now; but maybe we 11
change our minds after the war. We some-
times do. especially when the foreign article
is 3s. llld. and the home-made is 4s.
Mrs. E. G. Theodore, wife of the State
Treasurer, conducted a “coin” evening and
a cafe chantant at her home at New Farm
to-dav. Takings went to help along the
Residential Club for Returned Soldiers and
Sailors. Austin Theodore, brother .of the
Treasurer, was fitted into the occasion and
-decorated with the inevitable wristlet watch.
He will accompany it to the Front shortly.
Another Bananalaud voice that Sydney
has polished is the property of Ella
McGoldrick. On Monday night at Her
Majesty’s she sang so sweetly that those who
heard her could almost reconcile themselves
to reside for three months in the year in
the devastating climate of the South.
To-night the Brisbane Operatic Players
played “La Mascotte” to benefit various
patriotic funds. Mrs. S. B. Harris had the
part of Bettina, and helping her to make
the entertainment pleasurable were Miss
Eva Webber, Arthur Crane, Les Edye. Vic-
tor Jensen and Sam Learmonth. P.S. —
Little Miss Massey Jackson, dancer, and
Mrs. Hunter, the producer, deserve a line
of praise all to themselves.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
One of the Queensland State Ministers is
quite frank about it: —
Was there anyone who could say that the founders
of the Defence Act ever intended that the Act should
be used to deport men to fight for foreign countries f
To fight for foreign countries against our
own dear Germany? Certainly not! So.
with other anti-conseriptionists wdio are not
so frank, he will of course vote “Nein.”
A few weeks ago Nicholas Froushegrer, a
resident of Charleville, wandered into the
bush and lost himself; but being of the stuff
that makes Anzacs he never lost hope, and
resisted all inclination to give in. For five
days he was without food. After travelling
over 70 miles he was found by search parties
and taken to hospital. His legs were swollen
and his feet cut, but the doctor gave it as
his opinion that the wanderer could have
gone on for two days more. By that time he
wouKl have been nearly four years old!


» <
m i
\ i
\
V 3
SR
.
V*
MM
X
1;
3
HFJ
::
■
a ,
y
i! &
m
or*
f g*
71
wrr:
a. hard. day\s
Try a bottle
m


Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowels
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
' >
~r '
r
CARTERS
ITTLE
IV ER
PILLS.
Sinai! Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
When It comes to selecting a
Tractor for use on the farm
there should be no difficulty, for
the I H C 8/16 Mogul so far
out-classes all competition as to
simplify the task of selection.
Most important among its many
advantages over others is
Proved reliability under Australian
conditions. A large number of them
now at work in the Commonwealth,
some of them more than a year, and
every owner delighted
Will get an exceptional amount of
power out of low grade kerosene —-
hence very low fuel cost.
Give an immediate start on about a
half pint of benzine.
Exceptionally well constructed, caus-
ing less loss of time and less expense
for spare parts.
Unusually handy to work—turns In a
20 ft. circle.
Can be used nearly the year around,
and on all kinds of farm work.
Helps to make up for the shortage of
men, and supplies power cheaper
than horses.
Your farming operations will show
you a largely increased profit if you
use one intelligently.
Send for particulars.
International Harvester Company
of Aus. Ply. Ltd.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne
Adelaide—Perth—Launceston
(7*)
IHORROCKSES]
[T'tATAMJtMtD
ILong cloths
Beauty Doctor Tells Secret
Beauty Doctor Gives Simple Recipe to
Darken Grey Hair and Promote its
Growth.
Miss Alice Whitney, a well-known beauty
doctor, recently gave out the following state-
ment : “Anyone can prepare a simple mix-
ture at home, at very little cost, that will
darken grey hair, promote its growth and
make it soft and glossy. To a half-pint of
water add loz. of bay rum and a small box
of Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until the
desired shade is obtained. This will make a
grey-haired person look 20 years younger. It
is also fine to promote the growth of the hair,
and relieves itching and dandruff. — Advt. [2
BOOTS have come back again and no mistake.
But such dreams of boots, up-to-date,
daintv, delightful, fit accompaniment to the
flounced taffeta frocks of the day, which
combine smart modernity with old-world charm.
Paris and London both are now tripping to work
and play in short-fronted, high-heeled, suede-
topped boots like the Bostock style here illus-
trated. . , ,
It is a smart little boot, there is no doubt
about that, and every bit as comfortable as it is
smart. The beautifully fitting last on which it is
made sees to that, and lots of women, who have
never imagined they could wear a- short-fronted
style, will be amazed to find how comfortable it
is, how jolly it makes their feet look.
Then for those who want something different,-
who prefer shoes perhaps, there is a fine range of
styles to select from,.all as up-to-date and charm-
ing as this model, and all safe to wear well and
feel as peculiarly one’s own as if they had been
made to measure.
Bostock No
P 6476
o*i
S 3
None genuine unless
stamped “Bostock.”
828
See that the name “Bostock”
is stamped on the soles.
m
m
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
A BOOT POLISH Should PRESERVE
AS WELL AS POLISH LEATHER.
Bostock’s Viola Cream,
for Patent Leather and Glace Kid, is
emulsion of high-grade waxes, which
a scientific
keeps the
leather soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and ensuring long life to the boot.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, White.
In 2-oz. Tubes, 6d.; 4-oz. Bottles, 1/-. Sold Everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLA POLISHES LTD., SYDNEY.
m
'J'HE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness" and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote :—“ lm iroverisked blood can be made rich and good
“by means of Iron ‘ Jeilo.ds ,’ the most effective and desirable treatment
A FORTNIGHTS TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON 'JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDa’ No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6, Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by The 'Jelloid’ Co.. 205. City Road, London, England.
#
V
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
FREE
SAMPLE
BOTTLE
Dr. Parker’s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy.
WONDERFUL RECOVERY TO HEALTH
AND STRENGTH.
I suffered terrible agony from Uric Acid
Poisoning. All the joints were swollen, stif-
fened and-inflamed, and were becoming dis-
torted. My head ached incessantly; I suffered
from dry retching. DR. PARKER’S GREAT
INDIAN RHEUMATIC REMEDY acted like
a charm. I am free from pain, my skin is
clear, and my appetite good. I shall recom-
mend your treatment to other sufferers. •
Yours gratefully, MABEL LYNKLATER,
68 West Street, North Sydney.
Write to-day for Free Sample and
Book (postage 3d.) toF. PARKER,
111 Baking House, Rawson Place,
Sydney.
GROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
m
Many a young Offi-
cer's Moustache has
been produced with
the aid of CAPIL-
LARINR, and those
who follow the Mili-
tary fashion can rely
on equal benefit from
this absol u te 1 y
genuine Hairgrower.
' Price 10/6 Jar—Post Free.
Craig 8 Aitken, 6 svdnlv! 1 ’
[ Established over SO years.
The reports of louseph Ward’s probable
vppointment to the post of ambassador at
London is supported by the drivers of the
lorries that took his luggage to the steamer.
They declare that he departed with enough
cargo to furnish a baronial hall.
Albert Buttfield, a veteran S. Aus. pas-
toralist, remembers seeing King William
IV. riding in Windsor Park, and has talked
with many of Wellington’s soldiers, includ-
ing one who helped in the burial of Sir
John Moore. But Dr. Bevan beats that
by remembering his great-grandmother,
who was living when Bonnie Prince Charlie
pervaded Scotland in the Rising of 1745.
“Glen Huntly”: 11. G. Wells tipped the
“tanks,” which have done such astonishing
things on the West front, in “The Land
Ironclads,” written nine years ago and pub-
lished in “The Blinded Soldiers and Sailors’
Gift Book.” In fact, something of the sort
was less reasonably, though more thrillingly,
forecasted in “Frank Reade’s Steam Horse,”
which was one of boyhooa’s delights at the
beginning of this century.
The horrors of Sosli have soaked into
Vic. fruitgrowers, who have just held their
annual conference and considered proposals
relating to (1) Government establishment
of uniform railway-gauge throughout the
Commonwealth, (2) Government horticul-
tural education, (3) Government advances
for co-operative cool-store building, (4)
more Government fruit inspection, (5) Gov-
ernment experimental work to assist the
fruit-grower, and (6) first claim on Govern-
ment money to carry out these proposals. A
few other matters were mentioned, such as
the iniquity of preference to unionists, and
if they could be cursed with a little more
State enterprise they were satisfied their
future would be all right. Since there were
47,000 Victorian acres under trees ten years
ago and there are 72,000 to-day, they have
certainly given proof of their faith.
A Syrian recently persuaded a trusting
female in Dunedin pM.L.) to allow him to
burn holes in her to charm away rheuma-
tism. He applied live coals to the credulous
one’s calves, and explained that he was
extracting uric acid. Then, in turns, he
applied beans, beeswax, leaves and blotting-
paper to the wounds until the patient be-
came annoyed and demanded that he should
remove the beans, which had been left in the
fire-holes in her legs for three months and
had nearly sprouted. Meanwhile she had
paid five guineas for the treatment. The
magician wanted to continue the cure, but
he drifted into the police-court instead,
where a cynical Occidental J.P. gave him
two months’ gaol to reconsider things.
“Curse o’ Moses” pleads for a change
The Federal Taxation proposals, which threaten to
skin the public down to its waistcoat, if not actu-
ally to its singlet, suggest that more skill might be
employed by the taxgatherer. Mere traders know
the value of the T.P. system, and the average wage-
earner knows a little about the other end of it;
but it works and is effective in placing the piano
and the desirable building allotment and the mangle
and the sewing-machine and the sealskin coat and
the phonograph when a cash transaction would be
impossible. Why not collect the Federal taxes by
means of stamps, and in the simplest way possible
take toll of every money transaction in the Common-
wealth ?
The income-taxed person who has to hand over £1
a year at the flat rate would much more smilingly
shell out a penny a day. F,ven £1 looks a lot of money
to the person who earns £2 a week and has to
yield the quid all in one piece; but £1 6s. would
seem nothing if spread in sixpenny payments over
12 months. Of course, the stamp-duty is used to make
up the revenues of the States, but a thing like that
could surely be adjusted—even if you had to call
the State things stamps and the Federal articles
stickers. A payment of a dozen pounds a year
would similarly seem small potatoes if gathered in
weekly five bobs, while if demanded just when the
doctor’s bill and the grocer’s account and the gas
levy and the insurance exaction are all due it must
have an apocalyptic look that is for the moment
death alike to hope and patriotism. There would be
an immense saving in the business, too, and by
proper arrangement the payment would be almost
impossible to evade.
The whole thing resolves itself into this, that by col-
lecting money any day and every day, the public would
never see what it paid and would be correspondingly
happy. It is the business of a Government to keep
the people smiling. The income tax, as now gath-
ered, is as solemn a thing as a funeral of dead loves
and as clumsy as a draught-horse trying to catch a
greyhound. Extracted by means of harmless little
stickers the income tax would go through us as
brightly as sunbeams go through clear water and
never hear a curse on all its cheerful way.
This press-agent business is being over-
done. Even a great national question like
compulsory service is made to look cheap by
tripe about some inane songandance woman.
The other morning Sydney Telegraph pub-
lished a column or so of the opinions of
earnest women in the social and political
life of the State, and sandwiched in was a
statement that Miss Dolly Pinktights, of
the llncomic Opera Co., under the manage-
ment, etc., “felt the necessity for some action
which would force on the shirkers a sense
of their responsibilities.” If the press agent
has no sense of the fitness of things, couldn’t
these papers manage to buy some?
The reluctant Mr. Asquith, who is rarely
persuaded to face the inevitable until he is
pushed up against it, was characteristically
dilatory in striking those German enemy
dukes off the roll of British peers. Because
two of them are grandsons of Queen Vic-
toria and their respective mothers draw
£6OOO a year from the State, and a third
duke is grandson of another old Crown pen-
sioner, Asquith tacitly suggested that their
royal family feelings ought to be respected
although they were openly ranged on the
Kaiser’s side. But when he found that his
bluffing and wriggling had become a public
scandal, he reckoned that the time was ripe.
So the German princes who had so long been
expectorating at their British titles, stars
and garters, were formally relieved of them.
It may truly be said of Asquith since the
war that he has done nothing which he ought
not to have done, and has left undone for as
long as possible the things that were bound
to be done, and there is no health in him.


Hi
m
mm
M
m
*
m
m
■ ' ■ . ■ ;
mmm
i Ml
HI I
a mm H
——
■ssi—
n
H
:
m
Wk
m
s
Bn
I
,■ V '
mm
m
tvery
Outing;
calls for
Kodak
pictures
When you travel into the country—or city —for a holiday, when you visit new scenes and
people, you have splendid scope to take Autographic Kodak pictures of lifelong interest.
A Kodak, too, will enable you to make fine snapshots of home to send to your soldier friends or relatives at the front.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-, and you can
learn to use one in half an hour.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak—“ The Soldier’s Kodak”—for
pictures 2 % x 1 % inches. Price 30/-
Ask for the latest Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior, for all-round amateur
photography. Takes pictures 2x 3% inches. Price 45/-
The 3A Autographic Kodak —for postcard pictures—s y 2 x 314
inches. Price £5/10/-
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; "The Block ”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street. Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76
Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
ftranch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
u
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. liorlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN
***»TS ,KV^
M. 7** Mil Tf 0
»^CW.
Three Sizes—
\ l /z h.p.
2 h.p.
H.p.
m
mm
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street. Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
CKainbers >(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z. ,
local agents required in all towns where not represented.
/ SUi
Prompt Deliveries.
9-inch Centre
Gap Bed Lathes
Specially Designed for General and Motor Engineers.
With or without Suds Trays.
Beds —8 feet and 10 feet.
MAIN FEATURES:—Cantilever Bed, Powerful Headstock Inter-
locking Saddle, Handle Quick Change Feeds Motion, Hollow
Spindle, Machine Cut Gears throughout.
Collins Street, Melbourne, B Bathurst Street, Sydney
MSPfiersoifs;
r Proprietary Limited


B
r
T
s
SAFETY
*1 Enjoyable touring and efficient commercial transport
are alike impossible without the sense of security imparted
by good tyres. The toughness of Avon rubber and the
strength of Avon casing reduce to a minimum the risk of
punctures or bursts, and the sure grip of the “ Sunstone ’
ladder-grooved tread makes you as skid-proof as it is
possible to be —whatever the weather, whatever the road.
COMFORT
<J[ Superior resilience alone can reveal the maximum com-
fort of motoring on pneumatic tyres. Many a car owes
its reputation for luxurious springing and silky running to
the buoyant liveliness of its Avon Tyres.
ECONOMY
*][ The same qualities of strength and resilience that
achieve safety and comfort necessarily cut down ultimate
costs —of petrol, repairs to chassis and tyres as well.
Avon economy is the economy of endurance —the typically
British sort of tyre beauty that is more than tread-deep.
The claim that Avon Tyres show lowest cost per mile rests
upon disinterested records of average mileage in everyday
service, open to investigation and capable of demon-
stration on your vehicle.
Agents:
N. J. HOWES & CO.,
212 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX,
26 Market Street,
Melbourne.
Made by the Avon Ind'a
Rubber Company, Ltd.,
at Meiksham and Brad-
ford-on-A von, England.
n.
/
iff.
m
m
M
m
m
V*
A
I
A
MS
m
H
N»
m
%
m
,i %
w»:
A
€U6»
<//
?.*«i
K**'’**
S'a
brass, silver, gold,
copper, zinc,alum-
inum takes on a
new life when rub-
bed with this
wonderful polish.
EASY TO USE,
m
QUICK TO ACT,
convenient in
form. Sold by all
Grocery, Hardware
and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo
on Can.
m
IE any illustration appearing in T’u
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to ti e
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
0^
6s
cr'
00
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read tlie British Austral-
asian, t>d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ai.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Beading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New * ovelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
tf6
f
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do .you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
Ii
. L. hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Zbe Onoto needs no filler!
r
r.
%
T*
a
Cd
Why didn’t you ask her
to send you an Onoto ?
Onoto
™I Pen
from 14/6 each
A filler is bound to get broken
at the Front. The Onoto needs
no filler ; its fills itself from any
supply, and cleans the nib while
filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position.
You send it out to your friend at the
Front full of ink ready for immediate use.
Manufacturers— Thomas de la Roe & Co., Ltd.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C. Australasian Managing
Agents—Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York,Street,
Sydney.
m mm.
'
mmm
m
?2«
''C'i'J
%T*>
\W
Loaded in London
•with the popular
English powders
The lightning
speed of the game
bird is easily matched
by the even pellet distribution, velocity
and penetration of Remington -UMC
REMINGTON
Cartridges
Made in 12, 16, 20, 24,
28, 32 (14 m/m) and 36
(410 or 12 m/m) gauge
TRY
THEM
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere catalogue 'post-
free on request.
Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg., New York City
St. Stephens House
Westminster,
S.W.,
London
m
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
m
if
: a"
'PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIPS
9c
Marine, Stationary
Portable Engines.
nSP*
The “SKANDIA”in THE HEBRIDES
“MALEKOLA” and “AHAMB.”
25 Tons.
20 h.p.
17 Tons.
13 h.p.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.


BURNING ITCHING
ON FEET AND TOES
Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
“I suffered with a rash on both my
feet and toes. The itching and burning
was awful and I could not sleep at night
for it. The more I scratched it, the
worse it became, forming eruptions,
from which a watery oozing used to
come. My feet were very red and
inflamed and I could not bear anything
to touch them.
“I read about Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment and 1 gave them a
trial. In a very short time the rash had
entirely disappeared.” (Signed) Mrs.
Mabel Dowling, 24 Queen St., Ash-
field, Sept. 8, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Teach Cadets
to shpot
The Ross “ Cadet” Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
m
ROSS “CADET," .22 CALIBRE
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
I t is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—-
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
safe arm to use to drill
youths and teach .them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; disctJunts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application. 715
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
Food enjoyed is Food
more nourishing—
and food prepared with
B:sto is always enjoyed.
Thickening, colouring and
seasoning in one —Bisto is
the best of aids to house-'
hold economy. Try it for
gravies, soups and stews.
m
nwl'es
tl: n simples/ fare
fi.ost appetising.
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CEREIJOS, LTD.
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
TWO
'LINES
#! 5
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
UNO
patterns
TO
CHRISTIES
Tlh strand
/
520 GEORG E ST'"SYDN5 T '"5YDN EY
ST NEWCASTLE
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
rpr. r *. , Established 1849.
paying the" World 1 succes^i ce in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
n, A ° ; , HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Back' Mfi I In,,' “e« ks * Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; lion. R. J.
Samuel n'order’n, Esq. J B ’ ' C ' ; Hon ‘ F ‘ E ' Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
RICHARD IEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERUY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
„ , DISTRIBUTES A.CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
m °Tho Sociptl'i«° l °" e ’ Veai i’ ”?? " £B48 > 528 - Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,070,000.
and full ifdormation'withouldeky f ° m ° f P ° liCy Contract from £5 ™rds. Write for prospectus
m
A T present the Wolseley Works are
on War Service, and unable to
s upply private customers; but we shall
be pleased to add your order to our
waiting list, to be fulfilled when we
can resume deliveries.
Agents: F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagti Street, Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street, Melbourne.
C. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
m
WOLSELEY MOTORS LTD.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.,
Birmingham, England.
m
m
The Story of the Lamp
IP?:
The American “Camphene”
Lamp, 1845
In 1845 experiments were conducted in
America to produce a “burning fluid” to
take the place of animal and seed oils. Oil
of Turpentine was purified by distillation
over quick-lime and was called “Camphene.”
The dangerous nature of the new burning
oil soon brought it into disfavour.
Safety is an important matter in lamps,
heaters and stoves. Laurel Kerosene is
tested to 150 degrees of fire-heat before
being sold. Millions of tins of
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
are used every year without danger or
accident. Laurel does not char the wick or
clog the burner. Gives a brilliant light,
soothing and restful to the eyes. For
lighting, heating and cooking, it cannot be
excelled. Laurel is our new trade mark
name for the highest quality American
Kerosene ever sold in Australasia and
replaces our old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil-Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
m
m
m
m
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Adelaide City Council having become
alarmed because of the idea that disease
miKht be spread by paper money, now that
everybody has to handle and carry it, Dr.
Borthwick, Officer of Health, was called
upon for a report. Nothing in it, he says.
It would need an unusual combination of
circumstances for notes to convey germs;
and bank officials who handle them all the
time are not more unhealthy than other
people.
* * * *
“Ela”: Campbell’s discovery at Cairns
(Q.) of a means of pulping Lalang grass,
blady stuff that drives men to drink and
bankruptcy on plantations all over the
tropics, and making it suitable for paper
manufacture, opens up a chance of wealth
in Papua, where there are countless acres
of the vegetable. All that is wanted is capi-
tal to pioneer the venture. Good harbors
abound for the shipping of the pulp, and dis-
colored labor is cheap. Skill in reaping the
crop is not required. In Australia, with
white labor, the industry would hardly be a
paying proposition, but here, with Brown
Brother available for about Is. 3d. a day (all
found and included in the 15d.), there should
be enough profits in it to satisfy even a
meat trust.
* * *
“Pirate” : The disturbance between Mexico
and the U.S.A. should cause the price of
sisal hemp to soar like Harry Hawker, for
Mexico’s northern States produce a tremen-
dous quantity of sisal, which nearly all goes
into the manufacture of binder-twine and
goods of a similar nature. This ought to give
Papua’s sisal plantations a chance and, inci-
dentally, advertise the potentialities of the
industry to investors who have an itch for a
good thing. Papua’s dry belt, the area 40
piles east and west of Port Moresby, is an
ideal territory for sisal culture, the planta-
tions already established there having topped
the market with their hemp; and there are
thousands of acres still untouched, all emi-
nently suitable for the growth of the useful
vegetable. It’s a big chance for Australia
to deal another wallop at the industrious
foreigner. With a proper tariff—but, there,
there, what is the profit of idle dreams?
* * * *
. “Tasman”: If you’re looking for durable
timber you will have to go a long way to get
anything to beat the Speck’s Iluon pine.
Way back in 1828 a slab was placed over a
convict's grave on Settlement Island, Mac-
quarie Harbor, and though it has been
exposed in a wet climate for close on 90
years it is still standing in an excellent
state of preservation.
* * * *
“Zaekite”: The old Victorian torpedo
boats mentioned in a recent Bulletin were
purchased the other day by a returned sol-
dier, who has converted them .into fine little
motor-craft. _ This despite the fact that one
arm is practically out of action. Some men
are never done till they’re dead.
* * * *
t- ' ’ S° me things are cheaper in
U.S.A. than in Australia, although, gener-
ally, commodities and especially foods are
much dearer. Electric light in San Fran-
cisco costs from 3|d. down to lfd. a unit
for all over 500 units consumed. Electric
power runs from 3d. a unit as low as' l|d.
to big consumers. This electric juice is
manufactured by a private co. about 150
miles away in the mountains. The same
Pacific Gas and Electric Co. makes gas out
of crude petroleum and sells it at 3s. Gd.
per 1000 feet down to 2s. 3Jd. for con-
sumers who take 350.000 feet. Water is
sold by the ground surface or area of a
house. A single family in a one-storey
building which covers 400 square feet pays
for water Is. a month, or 12s. a year. Each
flat not exceeding 400 sq. ft. of 'space pays
the same. Occupiers of a five-storey build-
ing covering 2000 sq. ft. pay 15 dollars a
year, or about £3. Each bath tub in a
house costs £1 per annum. Horses and
cows entail a payment for water of 10s.
and 4s. lOd. respectively. Each water-
closet costs 12s. and every private urinal
3s. The Spring Valley Water Co., a pri-
vate concern, charges these rates by ordi-
nance of the City Council and pays big
dividends. The only thing owned by the
citizens of ’Frisco for which they do not
pay is air. Petrol is cheap at Old. a gallon
and telephones are dear. The yearly charge
is £3, with OGO free calls, and then 21d a
call on 3040 calls. Needless to say the'tele-
jihon^ystenw^wne^^irat^ntergris^
WANTED A SPY TO SCRUB OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Dedicated to the noble Hun who has been hall-
portering in Holland in a picture-show uniform in
order to gather information for his Fatherland.)
Mary Ann has gone and left us and the house is full
of gloom,
For we’re washing up and dusting and propelling- of
the broom ;
There is no one left to listen, there is no one left
to spy,
But we're mourning- still in secret for our plain,
hard-working spy.
She would open all our letters, she took stock of
all our friends
And she nibbled scraps of gossip as a rat eats
candle-ends.
Oh, her eye was always gleaming when a talker
lingered near,
And each spoken word was music to her large and
dusty ear !
She heard naught of any value, but she liked it just
the same;
Prosy visitors who bored us set her curious mind
aflame;
We could hardly drive her from us when her holi-
. day came round,
For she’d rather work and listen than go walking
neatly gowned.
Now she's gone and we’ve got no one, so the work
is ours to do,
And we’d like a Berman baron to come spying on us
too ;
H he 11 scrub our little dugout, he can spy until
he’s blind
And half mad with chronic earache. We will pro-
mise not to mind.
VICTORIA.
SUE.


GET A GUN
and Go Out for a Shoot.
There’s plenty of sport to be had this season, and it
will do you good to get out for a few hours’ hunting.
m
m
m
Wo Repair GUNS,
RIFLES & REVOLVERS
817. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L. Pigeon
Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels,
both choke, Greener cross-bolt, high file-cut rib, pistol-grip ’ chambered f
2,in. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 711 b Delivered
£.7
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge
Delivered, £7/10/'
K
832. “The Cert” D. 8.8.8. Gun, 12- or IG-gauge, lop lever, 30in. steel
barrels,
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock;weight, about 71b
. Postage on one Gun —2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State.
45/-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action,
solid ease-liaiv. lied locks, decarbonised steel barrel, UOin. pistol grip,
walnut stock: weight, about 6*11). Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
bi-Noiy- Ejector, 22/6 ; 25/-
Postage—2/G N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
iflS
Smoke SUNOL Tobacco.
HIGHEST GRADE VIRGINIAN.
Sample 2oz. Packet, lid., Post Free.
m
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gaifge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-
steel barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for
shells. Magazine holds
rubber butt-plate. Weight. 7fll>.
cartridges,
Delivered .
£B/10/-
838. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12 gauge, similar
description to Delivered, £B/10/-
mkzt - : -',:
811. Isaac Hollis & Sons’ “The Reliable” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-ga’uge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel barrels,
Greeper cross-bolt both choke, rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
cliauibered for 2|in. cartridges; guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders;
half-pistol grip, walnut stock; weight, from TJ-lb. to 741 b. Delivered
£,7/10
Delivered, £7/15/-
812. Same Gun, with 32in. barrels
Send for our new edition Firearms and Sporting Catalogue. Post Free.
m
m
il B]
mi
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
m
m
m
The Pen
with the
t JOA[4£
££PUTAT/qy
n^J_L
m
*3
<*£ p<v
of
£°<o° /
*o%
$ <v>
%4%.*
Waterman's
m
FountamFen
Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pen is the simplest and the
best. It is beautifully made, a pleasure to handle, a still
greater pleasure to use. With ordinary care it will last
a lifetime. Why not buy a Waterman’s Ideal to-day ?
No other pen will give you the same satisfaction.
Waterman’s Ideal is a perfect treasure to any writer.
Three types—Regular, Safety, and Lever Pocket Self-Killing.
Of Stationers amt levellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan ClvJtcri (Zortier, London, England.
Australia: Harold 1>. Dixos, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
rz
If any illustration appearing in The
I *■ ■' l 1 1,11 x v “"r—tiiimA:—
Maw
u
jy
sm
SYDNEY
N. S .W.
Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street —a few doors from
King Street —and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street * *
y//j//;//w//////fir, \
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
THE Hotel Carlton, completed at a cost exceeding £lOO,OOO,
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David Jones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors '•
While its exquisite appointments —its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used to every
comfort—the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that •
It is from every point of view the most desirable place in Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in catering for the
best class of patronage
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases and concrete
floors throughout.
The general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, dinner-parties, afternoon-
teas, etc.
ALL LETTERS, WIRES, etc., PROMPTLY ANSWERED.
TERMS—I 4- PER DAY EACH PERSON.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager.
I
MSN
nu
J
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


"MEDICATED SOAP
TOP THE
toilet
NU»SEf?Y
AND
BATH
|/sa?
PEP
w m TABLET
m
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap, both universal favorites. The wonderful healing powers of Rexona
have made it a pass-word in nearly every home in Australasia. Rexona Soap is the
best preservative for the skin and hair that is obtainable. Try for yourself and
prove our words. Rexona, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/. per tablet.
©
o
0
SKIN & FACIAL
WT'Tiiiiror iii i mmiihiiinmiii mini mu nin'
MEDICATED
P
The Sydney § Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Rift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Rifting Ropes ancl other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
gfiKu
The
Hot
Sun
&
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
it you use freely several times a day
Rowland's
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Platton Garden, London-
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
h
B
0
E
S
[Ask your Stationer for a Sample of
William Mitchell’s
MAKER
TO
THE
KING)
m
WILLIAM
10 MITCHELL’S
CPIST CLASS SHOULDER
|N?9. First Class Shoulder Pen
the original Quauiv By The Original Maker)
ft
*1
PENS TO SUIT AIL
ASK YOUR STATIONER FOR A SAMPLE BOX OF 24 ASSORTED
PATTERNS.
The Immortal Lover.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, beautiful art thou, whose brows
are bound
With laurel and with lilies, and thy
name
Is sweeter than all names of sweetest sound.
Thy hands are merciful beyond all praise,
And holy as a priest’s, and tenderer
Than any woman’s on her day of days.
And these have known thee; each beloved
one
Has met thee lip to lip in closest kiss —
The brother, and the husband, and the son.
Oh, happy they, thrice happy ! Unto some
Thou earnest as a blinding silver light.
And all the battle’s guns were stricken
dumb;
Or ’midst torn, shell-whipped waters where
great ships
Rush to their doom in thunder, girt with
fire,
And the smoke veils the day in an eclipse,
Thou cam’st between the lightnings, swift
as love,
Stooping to him upon the bloodstained wave,
Shattering the sky the stripped guns pealed
above.
The salt deeps draw him. Through blown
smoke and spray
And roaring wreck-strewn gulfs thy face
leans down —
Thy face —the white dawn of immortal day.
Or in some twilight ward, whose silence
seems
The straining silence of brave agony,
And one keeps vigil, and a candle gleams,
There comes no lightest sound of steps, no
stir
Of the tense air, the small flame flutters not,
Yet on his brow thy fingers, dropping myrrh,
Y ith more than woman’s tenderness are
laid.
And lolpain breaks in blossoms royal-red,
A victor’s roses, and in steel arrayed,
On the tall charger of a conquering king
He passes to Valhalla, laurel-crowned !
“He’s gone,” one whispers, “such a boy,
poor thing.”
Or. with the fires of sunset for thy wreath,
And for thy forehead-gem the evening
star—
The little fields of men so far beneath—
Thy hands reach to him ’cross the gulfs of
air
Like lovers’ hands that clasp at sunset tide.
Thine eyes hold his, and he has found thee
fair.
The tilted wings slant earthward. Down
the flood
Of the day’s ebb he goes, and the West
bleeds;
Athwart the glory fall quick drops of blood.
Night rushes on him—now his eyes are
blind
L»ut his hands rest in thine. Rumors of
fame
Blow by him like a glad, triumphant wind.
Oh, brows with lilies and with laurel bound !
Oh, hands of mercy! Name that droppeth
myrrh,
lar sweeter than all names of sweetest
sound !
Through the blown smoke of battle dawns
thy face,
And all the waves of the sea have mirrored
it;
In empty skies waiteth thy swift embrace;
The fires of all our sunsets are thy wreath!
Yet thou art handmaid of immortal day
And they have kissed thy lips, whose name
is De^th.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Wiirit, the Wind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOMETIMES, her yarraman lightly
pacing, she came to their camp
jauntily, the wild white maiden ; then
those whom she had smiled upon only yester-
day might receive a glance of scorn and feel
compelled to shrink back into the nearest
gunyah, while others least expecting it
might be given the soft eye. There were
times when she cantered up in a hot temper
and tyranically scolded all and sundry.
Often she came softly, ambling easily
through the moonlight and the shadows, to
console and nurse a sick piccaninny; then
her hands were cooler than the river and her
Aoice was tender music. And on occasion
.. swept past at a gallop, her stockwhip
viciously cracking, herself utterly reckless
ot danger in her determination to wheel the
horses careering ahead.
So it was that they called her Wiirit,
which meant the Wind.
' It was in the days of big stations and
small homesteads; when boundary fences
were almost unknown; when eight thou-
sand square miles of country might support
one cattle-raiser officially, and half a dozen
others unofficially; when often the stock-
man was a lone, taciturn human, consorting
witli Blacks and speaking their language
Having vigorous within him half the lost
virile primal instincts of man, regarding a
cattle-pad or a wallaby-beat as townsmen
would a street, and, with simple Australian
sincerity, considering his home as no less
in extent than the entire continent.
the . Scions twilight of a Western
bummer day, as Wnrit’s father, coiling his
btockwlnp round Ins arm. swung into the
saddle and rode away, sullen eves regarded
f.™ and on some of the resentful black
taces that he W ., s leaving, where the green-
sh had , struck, weals were showing,
foi the long-bearded boss had the courage
„- I igei-snake and a wrath that was swift
and scorching as the lightning.
Then t i l l r |’” he . said ’ on reaching home.
I’ve been.” dded ’ gnmly: “ And the .V know
flashed** Straightened herself and her eyes
a fX°cauie?“ f ° o1 ' right or ”*>“*• «'ot's
icSp-swjss ssr t!,er
“Wiirit —don’t call yer ole man er fool.”
Her eyes fell.
The boss broke the silence. “Ole girlie,
look up. Yer sixteen ter-day, VViirit; yer’ve
erbout growed up. Yer knows nuthin’. It
ain't altergether my fault as yer knows
nuthin’; but yer’ll meet ef young feller one
day, an’ ’e mightn’t ’ave ’er fortin. Yer’ve
’ad no eddication, but yer shall ’ave er good
start fer double ’arness. So I won’t stand
niggers killin’ me steers.”
“Niggers—killin' ’em. Dad?”
“Thet’s wot I said. I reckoned yer’d git
er shock. W’en I went to ther camp I
thort, as yer did yerself, as they wuz shield-
in' some yeller boys wot ’ad ’elped ther
duffers. But I got ter suspect pretty quick
as they ’ad actually been roundin’ off an’
spearin’, fer sheer devilness. An’,” he
added, banging the table with his whip, “I
give ’em ’ell, as devils desarves!”
“But with ther —whip, Dad? On’y ther
whip?”
Me nodded ponderously. “I’ve never ’ad
ter gun er nigger.”
Wiirit banked up the lire in the huge
fireplace. Flooding the hut with light,
throwing into every corner the spirit of
homeliness, it roared and crackled.
When she turned she saw that her father
had gone to the wooden swing-shutter that
served as a window. He was looking out
into the moonlight. Something in his atti-
tude stilled her heart for a second. In-
stantly she saw that danger lurked without,
hidden in the still bush, and, suddenly
fearful of the unknown, she tiptoed to his
side. He closed the window.
“Somethin's up, Dad?” she whispered,
anxiously.
“Jest ’and me me rifle off the wall there.
An’ ’and me yourn. Bifles should be kep’
clean always; I’ll bet they’re both dirty.”
But they were clean; neither had been
hung away dirty for the past five years,
with Wiirit in the house and strong enough
to handle them. Nevertheless, the old man
ran the pull-throughs down the barrels;
then, jambing a cartridge in the breech, he
laid the weapons on the table.
"Sit down be ther fire, Wiirit,” he
ordered. “I’ll be back in a minute. We
want water, I notice.”
With an agitated heart she watched him
from the doorway as he went down the
moonlit rise to the river, carrying two
buckets. With the vessels filled, he was
back in five minutes; the next ten minutes
she spent at the fire while the vigorous old
man brought a pile of firewood into the hut.
Then, in a low voice, that which she was
waiting for came.
“There’s no ’ard work left fer yer fer er
day er two. Thet rifle o’ yourn must be
kep’ ’andy, kep’ clean, an’ kep’ loaded.
Yer mus’n’t go out without et. Yer mus’n’t
go near ther camp ; though I knows as wot-
ever ’appened, Wiirit, yer’d be safe ernough.
“Me ole mate Donga Bill ’e as chucked
’is contraek: ’e won’t be runnin’ no more
mails along ther Maranoa,” he slowly con-
tinued, lighting his pipe. “’E wuz killed
three nights back on this station, twenty-
five mile from ’ere. Yer’ll know ther place:
it wuz at the ole ’ut in ther Bottle-neck.
’E ’ad ’is skull smashed be er boomerang.
’ls mails wuzn’t touched ; but ’is ’orses an’
guns walked. Six o’ ther musterers, w’en
et wuz found out, wuz away lookin’ fer
those damned cattle-pirates, an’ they’re still
out, not knowin’ ther noos. The other ’alf-
dozen some’ow got wind o’ wot ’ad ’appened
ter ther mail-man, an’ they’ve gorn away
on urgent private biz o’ their own, their
fust place_ o’ call_ bein’ ther Bottle-neck,
w’ere they’re campin’ ter-night.”
He had opened the window again, and
now stood intently looking out. Listening
to his grave, impressive voice, she leaned
against the wall, without speaking.
“ Ave yer ever counted ther trees round
our stockyard, Wiirit? Come ’ere; yer can
count ’em now. There’s six coolabahs, d’ye
see, an’ they cast er deep shade. ’Ave yer
ever counted ther stumps? Yer kin see
’em acrost ’ere in spite o’ the shadows.
One —two—three—four—five. . Didn’t yer
never count ’em afore? Well, I ’ave.
There’s er noo stump ter-night. I don’t
know which it is, exactly; but yer might
’ave ter find out, an’ kill et with er bullet,
right ’ere from this winder, afore ther night
is out. ’Owever, I've never ’ad ter kill er
nigger, so far.
“Are yer erfraid of er nigger, Kid? I’ll
tell yer er story as I’ve of’en thort er tellin’
yer: painted niggers stalked roun’ this ’ut
sixteen years ergo, on ther night yer wuz
born. I never sez er word ter yer mother,
but the ole gin wot wuz nursin’ ’’er couldn’t
be trusted ter ’old ’er damn tongue. I think
she sheered yer mother. Gawd knows w’y
E did, but ’E took ’er erway afore mornin’,
an I knows as Fear wuz one of ’ls means
ter thet end. There wuz no trouble from
ther Bush —ther timber wuz thicker then,
an I couldn’t see wot ’appened; but I
know as the ole gin wuz erfraid ter stay
w en wot they calls ther debil-debil wuz in
the ’ouse. She must ’ave let ’em know w’en
she ran out, ’cause they got skeered too.
“Thet’s ’ow. yer mother saved yer life thet
night—-an’ mine. An’, Wiirit, thet is ’ow
ther niggers wouldn’t ’arm yer now, seein’
as ther debil-debil perfects yer. Likewise, et
is ’ow they must ’arm me afore their ole
King Billy pegs out; fer ’e led ’em thet
night, an’ if they don’t, fer ever arter ’is
death ther debil-debil ’ill curse ’em w’enever
they goes ter the attack. An’ J believes in
them blacks curses, too, fer I’ve seen ’em
come true. Kid, yer nursed ole Billy from
ther brink er ther Divide on’y this week ; so
’is term’s gittin’ short.
“Now, Donga Bill wuz murdered in ’is
sleep, from er distance. An’ I wuz due ter
camp at ther Bottle-neck thet night, as me
orse-nigger knoo : but I ’ad poked erway on
me own, tryin’ ter track them damned
thieves, an’ me camp thet night wuzn’t
within twenty mile er ther place. So Donga
wuz murdered be mistake. If et ’adn’t been
fer these duffers, w’ich I’ll shoot on sight
oust I gits ’em red-’anded, I’d ha’ been dead
now. Yet on’y fer ’em I mightn’t ha’ thort
o’ goin’ ter ther blacks’ camp ter-day, kickin’
up Ole Arry, an’ this nigger mightn’t er been
sent ’ere ter risk ’is life. In fact, ther
niggers wouldn’t er been so ready ter tamper
with me stock.”
He reached round and picked up his rifle.
(Continued on next page.)


DO YOU LOOK SO
DID?
LL AS YOU ON
Do look so well as once did ?Do you feel so well ?If not, kave you sus-
pected your kidneys as the cause ?
The uric acid and poisonous matters, kept back in the by disordered kidneys,
soon tell on the looks soon ag'e the sufferer; the skin becomes sallow, the eyes lose
theii lustre and become bloated, the cheeks are sunken. The disposition, too, is quickly
affected by kidney poisons ; the sufferer grows moody, listless, irritable, feels in every-
body’s way, and can’t be cheered.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills succeed in all cases of Kidney and Bladder trouble
because they are a true kidney medicine —they don’t act 011 the bowels, but give all their
healing powers to the kidne3 7 s, helping them in their great blood-purifying work. Doan’s
Pills begin at once to strengthen and tone up the tired kidney membranes, and help the
kidneys to drive out the clogging kidney poisons that cause aching back and pains in the
loins, urinary troubles and gravel, nervousness, dizzy spells and heart trouble, drops3 r ,
and the fatal Bright’s disease. Our neighbor’s word, given here, is good proof of how
truly the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will help the sufferer.
9 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. Chas. Reynolds, 21 Wyndham Street,
Alexandria, Sydney, says:—“My back
troubled me for a long time, the sharp, shoot-
ing pains making my life a misery. I could
not stoop, and suffered great pain trying to
get about to do my work. Even when lying
in bed at night I got no ease. I could not
get anything to give me relief, though I used
a great many remedies. However, I at last
got a thoroughly good remedy in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Rills. These wonderful
pills stopped the pain like magic, and I have
been quite free of it for two years now. Xo
one need endure the agony of backache, for
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will certainly
cure this ailment.”
Mrs. Reynolds confirms the above seven
years later: —“I can now add the important
fact that I have been free of backache ever
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
nine years ago.”
Sydney
Proof
Sydney
People.
14 YEARS CURED.
Mr. W. J. Wotton, Exonia, corner liich-
mond and Rockby Streets, Croydon, Sydney,
says:—“My wife used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for kidney trouble. She had
been trying various remedies, but could never
obtain anything to benefit her until she got
this remedy. There was a constant nagging
pain in her back, which was particularly
troublesome whenever she stooped or moved
about much. She also suffered with head-
aches. 1 got Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
thinking this remedy might do her good, and
I. am very pleased to state that they cured
her completely. We have great confidence
in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and always
recommend them to our friends.”
Fourteen years later, Mrs. Wotton says:—
“It is now nine years since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of backache and head-
aches, and I have been free of these ail-
ments ever since. That is the best of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, they cure for good.”
m
M
Si l r>l i *** :
• : • '• • - - ' -
.
m
Every
fi'cture
Teffs
A Story "
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all chemists and stores at 2/9 per bottle,
or post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney. .
mm
m
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
_
His powerful brown eyes still restlessly
scanned the shadows of the Bush. Wiirit
stood by his side and said nothing; she
correctly guessed that he was evolving a
of escape while talking.
“Stand ’ere, in ther light, w’ere yev can
be seen from ther bush,” he advised. “Yer
ain’t erf raid?”
“You bet I’m not, Dad !”
He banked the fire, which had bjirnt down,
iinti 1 the hut was again flooded with light.
Through the window and the chinks in the
slab sides the interior of the room was then
plain to anyone in the bush, and this was
what he desired. Then he stood by her, so
that he, too, could be seen from outside.
“Now, Wiirit, me ’orse is six chain erway,
acrost there in the yard, saddled jest as I left
ini an hour ergo. I mustn’t be seen goin’
till I’m on his back, so you must attract
attention to yerself. I won't be back till
ter-morrer afternoon at the earliest. Don’t
be anxious erbout me. You stand right ’ere,
an’ shoot tliet middle stump ef I sing out.
But ef I don’t sing out, don’t shoot. They
won’t ’arm yer, no matter wot happens; but
I’m not goin’ ter’ ave yer mixed up in er
fight, so I won’t stay. Ef I’d gorn earlier
they’d ’ave come ’ere another night. Now
they’ll see I’m on the look-out, an’ they’ll
toiler, thinkin’ as I might be lightin’ out fer
good. It’s got ter be done, Kiddie —yer ole
man’s life er theirs. I’m goin’ ter ride like
’ell ter ther boys at the ole 'ut in ther
Bottle-neck; an’ tliet’s w’ere I’m goin’ ter
fight et out; but not on me own against a
undred niggers. I’ll send two o’ ther men
straight back ter yer. They won’t git ’ere
afore early mornin’, but yer’U be safe. Yer
ain’t erfraid?”
“No, Daddy, no! But couldn’t I go fer
the boys?”
“Yer’d be back too late. An’ yer ’ome ’ud
be charcoal.”
“Couldn’t I go with you?”
“Yer don’t git mixed up in no fightin’!”
he snapped. “Yer stay ’ere!”
She clung to his grizzled neck for a little
while; but she did not falter. He kissed her
forehead ; yet his farewell was not so tender
as to unnerve her. Only one manly course
this stern old Australian saw, and that was
the one his superb bushmanship had placed
before him. It guaranteed her safety, lie was
confident ■ perhaps it would result in his
being spared to care for her still. She was a
daredevil girl and a good shot; but he knew
she could not live through that Outback life
alone : that was a man’s existence, first and
last.
The hut was a staunch slab structure, hav-
ing, besides the living-room, two others, at
the rear, used as bedrooms. Each was fitted
with the same kind of window. Through one
of these, upon which the shade of a tree fell,
he went noiselessly, while she stood in the
glare of the firelight, and sang.
lor half an hour, almost insane with
apprehension, she waited thus, her eyes
riveted on the stumps near the stockyard,
and her hands, out of view below the window-;
ledge, gripping her rifle in readiness to raise
it to her shoulder should she hear a call.
And all through her song she strove to hear
every sound of the Bush. That the Boss
would make a wide circuit through the scrub
to the yard, she knew ; and he might even
wait a long time there for the sake of enter-
ing the yard and mounting his horse un-
noticed. Undue haste would not be allowed
to spoil his plans. . . .Would the horse snort
and betray his coming? In that instant it
should die!
As she waited, out of the blackness beneath
the coolabahs a great shape bounded, and
for an instant seemed to become, suspended
in space. There was a crash as the thorough-
bred’s hind hoofs splintered the top rail of
the yard. A heavy thud followed. Then
with a rush horse and rider burst out into
the moonlight; and as a dark object which
she knew to be a boomerang whizzed past the
crouching rider and like a night-bird skimmed
upwards and backwards to the coolabahs,
she heard her father’s voice, ringing but
reassuring:
“Don’t fire, Wiirit; an' don’t fear!”
Loud, exultant, hysterical, her answer
shot out to him as he swept by into the
scrub:
“Ha-ha! Ha-ha!”
Triumphantly, then, she looked at the
yard.
“One—Two —Three —Four—Five. ...”
She was counting the stumps.
“No! One! Two! Three! Four!”
Then again, ringing, boisterous, feverish,
fearless, came her laugh :
“lla-lia-ha ! Ifa-ha-ha /”
ARTHUR L. BREWER.
Force of Habit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FORGE NORTH couldn’t make it
out. As he entered the station in
good time for the 8.40 train he had
been catching for 15 years he had nodded
affably to Alf Glastonbury, and Glastonbury
had ignored him utterly—had looked clean
through him. North felt it so much that he
had slunk past the group of old friends wait-
ing near the middle of the platform and
deposited his brown kit-bag on the seat
under the dusty palm at the blind end of the
station. What on earth had he done to
Glastonbury to merit such a cut? He men-
tally raked over the happenings of the past
few days, even going back as far as the
previous Saturday, since when he had met
and joked with Glastonbury. He led such a
sober, methodical life that it was quite easy
to audit every hour. No, he could remem-
ber nothing. Perhaps Glastonbury had heard
some repeated club gossip? But it wasn’t in
North to say the bitterly smart things that
are repeated and do damage, so he felt sure
it couldn’t be that. Still his old friend had
cut him dead for some reason, and the group
on the platform—sharp-eyed enough at most
times —had allowed him to pass without a
sign. What, in God’s name, was the matter
with the boys! ' „ , ,
A billowing white plume of steam floated
into the blue above the green lip of the cut-
ting. and the warning whistle of the approach-
ing 8.40 called the station to attention. It
occurred to North just then that lie seemed
to be detached in some way from the crowd
about him, and that the morning wasn’t an
ordinary morning. There was a wonderful
feeling of Spring in the air—the feeling that
the old earth had been made anew and was
making a fresh start. And yet it wasn't
Spring, but early winter.
North hurried along the platform and
climbed aboard the first-class smoker, where
all his train cronies were, looking around.
furtively as he entered for some friendly
sign. Not one ! Barnley and Fielder, sitting
together on the other side of the aisle,
seemed unaware of his existence. Featlier-
ston, yarning to old Meekson in the seat
immediately in front, seemed determined
to ignore him. All around him were
men who had been yarning and joking
with him for years; and now, without
the slightest apparent reason, they turned
him down cold! Too distressed to think
any more about it, poor little North opened
his battered brown bag and took out his
morning paper, only to find that it was the
day before yesterday’s! Not only that but
someone else had been reading it and had
disordered the pages. That was curious. He
always put his paper unopened into his bag
and went through it methodically when he
was comfortably seated in the train. Ilis
family were too well trained to interfere
with his paper that' way before he had seen
it. And why should they have given him a
paper two days old?
As he looked up he thought he noticed
Featherston half-turn in his seat as though
about to speak to him. The trivial sign of
recognition made his heart bound gratefully.
Leaning forward in his seat and resting a
hand on the back of the one Featherston
occupied, he said: “Good-morning, Feather-
ston! I’ve been trying to catch your eye
for”—— Then he had to give it up.
Featherston had hurriedly resumed his con-
versation with Meekson.
North looked at his friend dully for a little
while, waiting and hoping for a chance to
force himself on their notice. At last in
desperation he put his hand on Featherston’s
shoulder and called pleadingly, “Featherston !
Featherston, old man !”
The result shocked him. Featherston
shook his shoulder impatiently, gave a fleet-
ing side-glance and talked on determinedly
to his companion.
North sank back into his seat, dazed and
utterly crushed. But through the iron song
of the galloping carriage-wheels he heard
Featherston talking confidentially to his
train-mate: “ yes, poor little North, you
know! I am so used to meeting him on this
train that I could have sworn I heard his
piping voice just now\ Died night before
last! Are you going to the funeral to-day?”
Instantly the absent-minded ghost that
had tried to get into town with the boys left
the train in the rushing smoke, and was at
home in the chamber of death, nursing the
ghost of the little brown bag on its impal-
pable knees. And while it waited foi the
funeral to start it reflected that habit binds
souls as well as bodies.
KODAK.
The Faery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Faery Moon is abroad to-night
I And under her silver thrall
All things have changed; for her
magic light
Has sweetened the face of all.
As we drift and drift on this wooded cove
Where the long tree-shadows lurk,
Above, above, on her throne above,
She sits at her weaving work.
The cove is placid from shore to shore,
And, seen through the screen of trees,
The rocks are castles, and rocks no more,
And the woods are mysteries.
The far is near, and the near is sweet,
And the night is turned to day ;
Yet you, down there on your cushioned seat,
Are millions of leagues away.
Come, tell me the thought that’s in your
mind ;
And why in the world you sighed ;
For a feather will show the way of the wind
And a straw the set o’ the tide.
’Tis mute you are, with no word to say,
Though a bird in the bush calls out,
Mistaking the light of the night for day
And the moon for the sun, no doubt.
Not so ! He calls and a sweetheart bird
Calls, too, in a tree apart;
Perchance the charm of the moon has
stirred
The passion o’ love in his heart.
And now,, calls done with, at last they meet
In their woodland trysting-place:
How lone you look on your cushioned seat
With the moonlight on your face!
How lone, and alien, and far removed,
Dark-eyed in the silver sheen:
Would I pale rebuked, or stand reproved,
If I crossed the leagues between?
You smile. Just so : there is room for one —
One more at your side. Ah well,
’Tis faery work that the moon has done,
As the birds in the bush can tell!
Our lips have tasted her thrilling cup,
And —praise to her magic power !
’Twas she sent Beauty to wake Love up,
Lest he dream away his hour.
I know the thoughts that are in your mind,
And why in the world you sighed ;
For a feather has shown the way of the
wind,
And a straw the set o’ the tide.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Is
WESTINGHOUSE (Hone)
;;vf • ; v . . ■ -T-. .
Rocker Joint Chain Drives
m
The Rocker-Joint
by its ro 11 in g
action eliminates
rubbing friction;
the pins, being
dead hard, en-
sure long life.
I
{
m
10 -li.p. Drive —-‘9 Pitch x 2Un. wide,
r.jy.rn 875/360.
The true me-
chanical move-
ments are verified
by THE SILENCE
whilst working.
Attention and
upkeep ARE
NIL.
Your power account will be decidedly reduced by the installation
of one of our drives, and your output greatly increased.
Wheels manufactured at our works and Chain supplied from
local Stocks.-
Head Office-
The Westinghouse Srake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office -99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
[3.
m
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYERW SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Loekyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
safeguard your health
qTJ.CoIHs
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
toughs, Colds, Asthma
d in the Cough of BRONCHITIS an
CONSUMPTION.
a. h
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 8/-,
Made in Er ' "
51-
m
DINNEFORDS
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn. Indigestion. Sour Eructations. Bilious Affections.
* "‘I
■o?
*.•'/■• V.V.- •••:- :• ■->
■ *
m
111
.
SaSII;
Eckersley’s Soda Fountains
and Aerated Water Machines
Specially designed for CAFES, HOTELS, etc.
SAVE jobber’s profits by purchasing DIRECT from the manufacturers.
As we are the sole manufacturers of the apparatus we sell, we can absolutely guarantee
the workmanship „„r InstaUaimns. P| a „, s f rom £ 25 g Upwa r<ls.
8 SONS,
Rawson Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney
(Opp. Main Entrance Railway Station).
QUEENSLAND. —Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
S. AUSTRALIA.—A. M. IV & Sons, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
N. ZEALAND.—John Rigg & Son, Dixon Street, WELLINGTON.
flow To Keep Jtealtliy
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine, that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time act a,s a general tonic. For these purposes there |is no family
medicine better than Beeeham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beecham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beecham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Bcccbam’s pills
>-<
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
ft
Bovril makes other foods
nourish you. It has a
Body-building power proved
equal to from 10 to 20 times
the amount of Bovril taken.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
JFOR
OUGHS ,
fliridge’s
Ujkgloiiic
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
WAVERLEY
THE “BOON AND BLESSING” NIB
m
m
m
m
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world - wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold & Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow & London
Motorists’ Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us—you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
*Acase for
Wtncarnis 1
m
'' V
m
m
]3k
x
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to
an intricate network of tele-
graph Wires. Controlled and
nourished by a portion of the
brain—known as the nerve
centres —the delicate thread-
like nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the
body So long as the nerve
centres are capable of con-
tinually supplying nourish-
ment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong
and healthy. But directly
the nerve centres become
weakened by overwork,
worry or anxiety, they are
unable to transmit the neces-
sary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
"on edge." Then it is that
a sudden sound-makes you
“ jump " —you get irritable—
you suffer from neuralgia—
you are restless and de-
pressed. In this condition
there is nothing to equal
m
Because, being a powerful
nerve food, 1 Wincarms ' gets
right to the root of the trouble,
and. by creating a supply of
new nerve force, stimulates
and re-vitalises the whole
nervous system. Try
Wincamis ' for * Nerves It
is wonderful Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
* Wincarnis ’ is made in Eng-
land by COLEMAN & CO.,
Ltd., Wincarnis Works, Nor-
wich. You can buy ‘ Wincar-
nis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-
and 6/6, but if you experience
any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distribut-
ing Agents, Fassett& Johnson,
5/7 Barrack Street, Sydney.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
m
m
IIMANGROVrrEI
LEATHER
beltin<2
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen from Best Sheffield Crucible
Cast Steel Plates. Sizes 6in. dia. to 72in. dia.
BAND SAWS SET AND SHARPENED, % to 1% wide. FILES.
SPECIAL HIGH-SPEED MILLSAWS, also CRUCIBLE CAST STEEL
MILLSAWS IN STOCK.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALITY.
IRON AND STEEL FOR MACHINE KNIVES.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian/379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
Offices— 146 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle.
Sheffield, England.
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
lor Walls, Ceiling's‘and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, MEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARPIE « CO.,
Circular Qua; West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings,
Brisbane; and Adelaide.
WOLFES
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
m
m
Tangye Portable Oil Engine.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvester.
Tangye Suction Gas Plant.
Clayton Traction Engine
Clayton I'ol’tanle Steam
Engine,
DALGETY’S MACHINERY AGENCIES
comprise the following well-known lines-
TANGYE Eampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines, Boilers, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps, Winches, Jacks, Blocks, etc. CEAYTON & SHUT TEE WORTH
Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOESON & MORROW Farm Implements. WOESELEY Shearing Machines and Separators. GANE Milking Machines.
Above may be inspected at out- DEPOT and SHOWROOM—MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY. Illustrated Catalogues Posted Free. “IS ”’ Sl^Ses.
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
the world’s best
It is indisputable that the Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machines are the
most dependable in the world—a fact proved by their record.
For the sterling quality, the original price is comparatively very low,
and considering the remarkably low cost of upkeep they are the soundest
investment possible.
Write at once for fully-descriptive printed matter—post free.
Australasian Agents: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD. ALL BRANCHES.
m
This is the Pulley
generally asKed for
But, to those that prefer them, we carry large stocKs of WOOD,
CAST-IRON and WROUGHT-IRON Split Pulleys in all sixes
up to 60in. diameter.
Philips Pressed Steel Split Pullevs
are not ordinary ** StocK** Pulleys—their construction represents the greatest
merit in the Pulley Art, and FOR GENERAL ALL-ROUND ENGINEERING
AND FACTORY WORK appeal to the most discriminating' of Power Users.
Sole
Distributing
Agents-
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Made.
Australian Material.
Australian Labor. Australian Owned.
m
The “ABBOTT” Filter.
An Australian Production of tHe Highest Merit.
Proved by Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
AVOID TYPHOID and
HYDATIDS.
m
Filters for Hotels, Cordial
Factories, etc., a Speciality.
PRICES from
m-201-
ru
H EL"A RB 0 TT. ‘
Manufacturers: N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Building's, Sydney.
Church Lane, Melbourne.
