

The Genial Spirit
R. G. WATKINS <SC 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— _ . ,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST,
i
o
• -
0
a
LU
K-
UJ
CL
UJ
D
h
Z
o
£
1
Head Office; 74
Opposite National Amphitheatre,
nd at
SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.$.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BEMNETT, General Manager.
□niiill
SininaDPMSiife
COMMERCIAL CHAMBERS /* 1/4 K.SW MOMT BE RtETC OCPOSIT 1 tWYE.STMtMTCfcT* **
8.8
sI.R
:e
SSI
'"Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
► Made in Australia by •
FHtDtmCKS[EARNS^°
SYDNEY.
UJJQMC
UMUIV
BACON
ĥ
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
KET made from these genuine Tablets
_ recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E NS
J
ħ
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel
PALMER CORD
MOTOR TYRES.
BUY BRITISH GOODS!
Practical Patriotism does not countenance support of Foreign Industries.
CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE.
ONI* SJ3AHS,
Not the same as others,
AMIWUD
Wallboard
MALTHOID
Roofing
is the ideal Interior finish in
all buildings where appear-
ance and long life are
desired.
with proper care will last as
long as the building it covers,
and look well all the time. Do
you want more than that?
gladly send samples and booklets.
The Paraffine Paint Company, D.
f. Evans (Australasian
House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL 6c AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL Sc FARM WAGGONS. IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
SHREDDER DISCS.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. [2
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS
h
-3XSW
HXOOJL
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouthl
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacv of
— lh fL _Er £ £h Flowers
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y01.37.—N0. 1902.]
[Thursday, July 27, 1916.
Begistcred at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOK OFFERS
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
That Man Shakespeare, by Frank Harris. 6/6 for
2/6 (4d.). , „ .
Advertising as a Business Force, by Paul T. Cherririg-
ton. 7/6 for 2/6 (4d.).
Churrh and State in England and Wales, by Michael
McCarthy. 10/- for 2/6 (3d.).
The Road to Happiness, by Mrs. Van Iv. Schuyler.
4/6 for 1/0 (3d.).
Things As They Are in Panama, by Harry A. Franck.
111ns. 5/- for 2/6 (4d.).
Antarctic Penguins, by Dr. G. M. Levick. Illus. 7/6
for 2/6 (3d.).
The Origins of Invention, by 0. T. Mason. 4/6 for
21- (3d.).
Education as a Science, by Alex. Bain. 6/6 for 3/
(3d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y LTD- 238 PITT STREET. SYDNEY,
’$
Es.
JUj
snto
ON
Suited for Old and Young, for
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
The large sale for EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
has led to a number of imitations being manu-
factured under the name of menthol and other
jujubes. It is important, therefore, when buying
to be sure and get HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES. You may be asked to buy other
jujubes, and be told they are “just as good”
as Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves
that these imitations and substitutes have no
reputation of their own, and can only be sold
,on the good repute and high character of Hud-
son's Eumenthol Jujubes. Sold by all chemists.
Price Is. 6d. , [6
The Red Page
An Australian Docaiogue
1. Thou shalt have no other gauds "before
Australia.
2- Thou shalt not make unto thee any
craven image of snobbery.
3. Thou shalt not take the name of Labor
in vain.
If. Remember thy country always to keep it
secure.
5. Honor thy word, and pay C.O.D.
6. Thou shalt not slay except in self-
defence.
7. If thou must philander, do not be found
Out.
8. Honesty’s always the best policy.
9. Wild-cat prospectuses and tittle-tattle
barred.
10. Covet naught but personal and national
independence.
N.S.W.
MOSES JUNIOR.
Fiction
J. D. Beresford can be interesting: in fact
his reader sometimes comes to the conclu-
sion that J. D. Beresford deliberately makes
up his mind to be interesting. These
Lynnekers (Cassell) is a solid book
about solid people, solidly written. These
Lynnekers are not exactly exciting people,
and nothing much really happens to them,
but they are very real people. The quite
legitimate, question whether such people are
worth writing about, whether, indeed, there
is any necessity for them to exist at all, is
answered by the fact that J. D. Beresford
can make them interesting in spite of their
dullness. And for Australians there is an
added interest in the joyful fact that these
Lynnekers arc practically extinct in this
continent. It was a household where “diffi-
culties were debated, but it was rare for any-
one to take action. The average trouble,
whatever it was, righted itself in time.
Something always happened sooner or later.”
But, having as a family been decorously in-
distinguished for generations, the Lynneker
blood was running a little thin. Intellec-
tually the Lynnekers were dropping behind
their own times; their Conservatism was fall-
ing into senile decay. But the head of the
family, a rector, “took his own family as
the standard of English culture, and deplored
not the Lynneker loss of vitality, but the
growing vulgarity of the new generation.”
And into this family of inertia a son was
born who actually purposed doing things.
Naturally the family was shocked: an elder
brother once even went to the extent of pas-
sionately upsetting the salt-cellar and slam-
ming the door behind him as he went out.
“He had done as much as any Lynneker
could in the face of great opposition. The
utter abandonment implied by his spilling of
the salt must surely show that he was
intensely in earnest.” But Dick had imme-
diately forgotten the scene; he was too
much occupied in his own problems. He goes
into a bank, and ultimately gets a good posi-
tion as the secretary of a famous financier;
but after 300 pages he had not yet settled
what he wants to do in life, or even met the
girl that he is to marry. (This is fair
warning: an author who forgets the girl for
300 pages takes risks.) True, there is the
elopement of the other “outsider” in the
family, Dick’s sister, who clears with the
village carpenter; but she is only an inci-
dent. Dick’s efforts to understand politics,
to settle for himself the question of religion,
and, above all, to settle the question of him-
self, is all the story, with, of course, that
tremendous background of the Lynneker
inertia.
“They accepted and glorified the past.
They referred to it as to an ideal that might
and should be reconstructed. His father’s
test began: Tn my days’.... that comfort-
able day in which, it seemed now, there was
never anything new and disturbing Step
by step they might be followed back to some
primitive ancestor who had preferred flint to
the new-fangled bronze weapon that had
driven his tribe westward. But always they
had been driven forward. Some power,
invisible and indefinable, had always over-
come their inertia, tumbled them one step
onward, and left them to deplore the won-
derful past out of which they had been
mercilessly thrust —and to congratulate
themselves on the fact that in spite of almost
insupprable difficulties they had risen to the
occasion.”
The charm of this deliberately interesting
book lies in the realism with which this
quaint family is depicted. At the end of the
novel you have got to know these Lynnekers
quite well. Whether anyone would care to
know them in real life is beyond the ques-
tion. Evidently J. D. Beresford did.
May Sinclair, the greatest living English
woman novelist, fails in her latest book
Tasker Jevons (Hutchinson, per Dymock’s
Library) only because she is a woman. The
Three Sisters was a work of art: Tasker
Jevons is a highly entertaining story. May
Sinclair is never dull. But the flaw is her
pretence that the narrator is a man. She
writes in the first person, but the figure of
a man that she projects is too obviously the
sort of man she would be if she weren’t a
woman. In fact, he is a woman, first cousin
to W. J. Locke's later impersonations.
This is curious, since May Sinclair’s picture
of Jevons rings horribly true, even seen
through the eyes of her semi-masculine obser-
ver. If Jevons isn’t moulded on Arnold
Bennett, then she must have had under
microscopic observation a disciple of Arnold
Bennett. But there can’t be many of those
about. The next novel by Bennett ought to
have May Sinclair in it.
Tasker Jevons is meant to be “the real
story” of a successful author. “I know I
am Writing about a man whom many people
still consider a great novelist and a great
playwright. But to me what he has written
matters so little; it has no interest for me
except. as his vehicle, the vehicle in which
he arrived.... He wanted most awfully to
arrive. How far he took himself seriously
nobody will ever know. . . .He was too clever,
I think, ever to have quite convinced himself.
.... His first novel, he told me, was calcu-
lated, deliberately, to startle and arrest; to
hit the public, rather unpleasantly, in the
eye. That, he said, was the way to be remem-
bered. It wouldn’t sell. He didn’t want it
to sell. _ What he wanted first was to gain
a position; then to consolidate it; then to
build. His second novel would be designed
to counteract the disagreeable effects of his
first.... If he went on being disagreeable,
he’d alienate the very sections of the public
he most wanted to gain. It was in his third
novel that he meant, still deliberately, to
come into his kingdom. His third novel, he
declared, would sell: and it would be his
best. On that utterly secure and yet ele-
vated basis he could build afterwards pretty
much as he pleased.... That third novel was
to start his big sales. The worst of a big
sale was this, that when you’d caught your
public you were bound to go on giving them
the sort of thing you’d caught them with;
therefore, he’d be jolly careful to start ’em
with the sort of thing he happened to like
himself, otherwise he’d have to spend the
rest of his life knuckling under to them. He
could get a cheaper glory if he chose to try
for it; but a cheaper glory wouldn’t satisfy
him.... Besides, he wanted his glory and his
pay quick. He couldn’t afford to wait a
month longer than his third novel. As for
the different quality in the glory it would
be years before anybody but himself could
tell the difference, and by the time they
spotted him he’d be at another game. A
game in which he defied anybody to catch
him out. He’d be writing plays.”
(Arnold Bennett’s first novels were: A
Man from the North, The Grand Babylon
Hotel, and Anna of the Five Towns. The
Old Wives’ Tale, his greatest novel, did not
come till 10 years after his start.)
“There’s no good trying to express such a
phenomenon as Jevons in terms of literature.
You can only think about him in terms of
action, every book of his being an onslaught
by which he laid his public 10w.... He had
studied the public he set out to capture. He
presented the life it knew —the moving,
changing, fantastically adventurous life of
the middle classes. Until Jevons rushed on
them and forced their eyes open, you may say
at the point of the bayonet, the. middle
classes didn’t know they were moving and
changing and being adventurous. Nobody
knew. It was Jevons’s discovery.”
May Sinclair even discloses his secret.
“ ‘You can do anything,’ he said, ‘if you’re
only funny enough.’ ” The whole thing was
as calculable as any successful deal on the
Stock Exchange. “When you asked him: ‘Then
why can’t other people do it?’ he said: ‘God
knows why. They must be precious fools if
they want to do it and don’t find out how.
I’ve had to find out.’ ”
But it is the real Jevons, the little, kindly,
almost lovable bounder in private life, that
May Sinclair has to do with. She analyses
his personality with the cold skill of a scien-
tist, but without that deep sympathy that
she gave to the poet in The Divine Fire.
There is his amazing marriage with the
wonderful Viola, after their innocent esca-
pade in Belgium, about which May Sinclair
worries overmuch. There are the effects of
his growing popularity and wealth- —the
period when the little man felt that he need
no longer keep a jealous watch upon his
aitches and other vulgar habits —about which
May Sinclair grows rather unnecessarily
annoyed. There is his ignorance l 'of furniture
—according to May Sinclair, this is the
seventh of the deadly sins. To this page a
wrong assortment of “periods” in furniture
is hardly a crime. The cult of furniture is
one of the 10 commandments of English
society that the war seems most likely to
abrogate.
One turns with relief from these false
fastidities of May Sinclair to the comedy she
extracts from Jevons’s infatuation for his new
motor-car. It was such a wonderful car that
Jevons felt it a sacrilege to take it out. It
might get a speck of dust or a spot of rain
on its immaculate surface. All Jevons did
was to worship it in its altar, the garage.
But the war came and found a use for the
car. In fact, May Sinclair seems to have
herself declared war on Germany just for the
purpose of providing a background for Jevons
and his car. The adventures of Jevons and
of the nice young man who follows Jevons
to Belgium with the novelist’s wife, set
against that awful background, have the air
of foolish comedy. The wild rush of the two
motor-cars over the landscape is ludicrously
incongruous: one very nearly comes to the
conclusion that Belgium had been invaded on
behalf of Jevons and his car. The little man
dominates the situation, instead of being
swallowed up by that tragedy of the destruc-
tion of a nation. And Viola herself seems to
imagine that the war is merely a new hobby
for herself. But she learns the truth from her
exasperated husband: “If you think you’re
any more comfort to the wounded than you
are to me I can tell you you’re mistaken.
There was a poor devil at Lokeren the other
day with a bullet in his stomach who told
me he didn’t mind his wounds, and he didn’t
mind the Germans; what worried him was
the lady being there when he wasn’t able
to defend her... .We all think you heroic,
and you are sometimes useful. I think you
adorable in a tunic and breeches, and
General Roubaix agrees with me. But there
isn’t a thing you’ve done yet that a man
can’t do better.... And when you’re in the
lines you’ve a moral effect equal to about 10
17-inch guns. If the men see you hovering
about their trenches they’re so jumpy they
can hardly hold their rifles." And Viola
remarks, "What about Joan of Arc?”
May Sinclair’s malicious study of an
Arnold Bennett type is delightful; but she
gives away her case when she adds: “Don’t
ask me what would have happened to Jevons
and his wife if there hadn’t been a war.”
The fatal flaw in the book, as a work of art,
is that May Sinclair deliberately makes use
of the war in order to settle up the domestic
differences between a husband and his (of
course) childless wife. It is like hiring an
elephant to decide, with his foot, a dispute
between two ants.
Australian
William X., who signs himself Jas. A.
Ross, is politely requested to supply an
explanation of his drama, The Midnight
Sun (Sands, Sydney). Apparently it means
something. This page learns that it is the
third of a trilogy, and it is referred “for
further explanation” to The Daum, the
curtain-raiser to The Midnight Sun. But
as The Dawn is not included, this page is
still in darkness. The persons represented
include Kato (King of Diamonds),
Orphanus (Prince of Peace), Carlyle, Eros,
Kitchener, Tageta (a Maori Princess), The
Pleiades, The Little Baby Stars, The After-
glow, Twigg (a curate), Venus, Ghizeh and
Jentel Lamb (a millionaire). The scenes
take place in the Blue Mountains, chiefly at
Lcura Baths, which are called “Leurasjem,”
and the dramatist asks us to note that this
word contains the same letters as Jerusalem!
Here is the brilliant climax to the first
act. The characters left are Twigg, the
curate, and Eros, dressed as a girl.
Ekos: Are you a shade?
Twigg : No, young lady, I’m the curate!
Ekos : What do you cure ? Fish!
Twigg : Demented ! Bacon !
Ekos : What’s demented Bacon?
Twigg : Shakespeare!
Ekos: Do you mean Orphanus?
Twigg : No! I’ve never heard of him!
Ekos: Strange! Do you eat grubs?
Twigg : No, the grubs eat me!
Eros : Poor grubs! How sad ! Etc.
But the final tableau is more interesting.
Orphanus and other characters are seated
upon a golden disc on a square marble base.
“At the foot of the throne steps is Venus
lying at the feet of Britannia, who is
guarded on either side by John Bull and
Kitchener.” In front are The Baby Stars
and the Afterglow. “Between these and the
outer circle of the women is a circle of
white everlasting daisies and a pink rose
cross at the further side separating the
words
WILL X I AM
CHRIST.
This is the shield of Orphanus.... In gold
letters on the white base of the throne is
seen Will-iam X. (meaning Will: I am
Christ). It is the stroke of the pen that
converts the name of William 11. to that
taken up by Christ; hence the meaning of
the words of Hamlet in The Dawn, when
pointing to the red cross on the white
screen, ‘lt is written ! Thy will be done.’ ”
After pointing out that the bloke’s name
is Wilhelm, not William, this page retires
baffled.
A lordly tribute to the genius of the late
J. J. Hilder, Australia’s finest water-colorist,
is presented by a group of his friends in
the form of J. J. Hilder, Water-Dolorist, a
charming book of color reproductions of his
most characteristic work, with appreciations
of the man and his pictures, published by
Tyrrella, Sydney, in a limited edition of
500 copies at ss. The book is typographic-
ally a credit to any country, and the color
blocks, with the exception of one block made
at the Government Printing Office, Sydney,
reach a level that must be near the highest
yet reached in Australia. The other blocks
were etched by Hartland and Hyde, and
the printing was done by Arthur McQuitty,
both of Sydney. As the profits go to the
painter’s widow, it is a matter for congratu-
lation that the whole edition is entirely
disposed of. Hilder died of tuberculosis at
Hornsby last April, at the early age of 34.
From the biography by Bertram Stevens
we learn that he was born in Queensland,
and left school to become a clerk in the Bank
of N.S.W., Sydney. Once again in Aus-
tralian art-history, it was Julian* Ashton
who put this youth, without any previous
artistic training, on the right track. The
Hilder panel at the 1907 exhibition of the
Sydney Society of Artists created a sensa-
tion. So successful was his work that he
was soon afterwards enabled to leave the
Bank and look to his art for a living. Julian
Ashton says: “In his earlier work he had
a gem-like method of mosaic, which placed
accurately-drawn forms of brilliant color
in juxtaposition with an effect akin to
jewellery. Later, he broadened and har-
monised and simplified, until in the best
examples of his work, Hilder, as a land-
scapist, is not only unsurpassed here, but I
make bold to say would take the highest
place in any collection of modern water-
colors.” Lionel Lindsay says that “within
the boundaries of a few square inches of
paper ililder became a little master. “His
command of blue, the most difficult of colors
ou the palette to manage, was astonishingly
sure. Lindsay finds in Hilder’s very early
works a certain hardness, giving them the
effect of little posters; but his middle period
represents his period of greatest originality,
when, “his work resembles no predecessor’s,
and his undoubted originality is a distinct
contribution to the art of his time.” Later,
his manner broadened; his touch became
more facile and less precious. “Hilder is
our first romantic painter His fame is
already assured.” This confident prophecy is
amply confirmed by the exquisite examples
of his work reproduced in this book, and the
wonderful memorial exhibition of his work
now open in Sydney.
“The Olives,” who is “preparing a paper
on Australian Poetry to be read at a meet-
ing of the local Poetry Society,” expects us
to do his job for him. He wants detailed
information on the following points: When
did The Bulletin “School of Poets” have
its origin? Why did it have an origin?
Who are the scholars of that school? How
many copies of the works of each scholar
have been sold? What is the finest verse
produced in that school? And, finally,
“Could you mention any matters of parti-
cular interest in dealing with this subject?”
The last question is the only one we need
answer. There is no Bulletin school of
poetry. Poetry is Poetry, and most of the
poetry written by Australian poets has
appeared in The Bulletin. This paper
has encouraged the writing of Australasian
poetry by publishing the stuff and paying
for it. But it does not tell poets to write
any particular brand of poetry—because
there are no particular brands of poetry.
“Chink” demui;ely asks what is The
Bulletin’s attitude toward the split infini-
tive, guilelessly pointing out that this page
“would stretch a point to avoid dividing the
infinitive, whereas the lapse often occurs in
the general columns and even in ‘Plain Eng-
lish’ on occasions.” “Chink” instances this
page’s use of the phrase: “He fails quite to
understand,” where the sense might be taken
in two different ways. Presumably he means
that the sentence might mean either“He
quite fails to understand,” or “He fails to
quite understand.” The answer to “Chink”
is that if the sentence meant the former, it
would have been plainly written that way.
But as to the general attitude to the
“splintive,” this page prefers deliberately not
to split if it can be prevented; but it means
to blanky well split whenever added empha-
sis can be given by that means. And on the
other pages of this paper the writers doubt-
less also use the “splintive” as a servant
and not a master. There is a dislike to split-
ting on the part of formal grammarians, their
theory being that, for example, the two
words, to and split, are really one word, being
the infinitive form of a verb, and that there-
fore no word should come between them.
But the writer can take that rule, like other
grammarians’ rules, merely for his guid-
ance. Where greater ease or greater empha-
sis is necessary, you may split if you please.
Your own sense of style should be your best
guide. But if “Chink” wants this page
definitely to ban the “splintive,” that is a
thing that this page means to blanky well
refuse.
Modern Horse Management, by R. S.
Timmis, of the Royal Canadian Dragoons
(Cassell; 12s. 6d.), is a new encyclopaedia of
the moke. In this big book the author prof-
fers information of everything concerning the
horse, from the psychology of the horse to
the anatomy and use of the horse’s tail, from
the crime of docking horses’ tails to the
bacteriology of his diseases, from the theory
of grooming to the principles of stable con-
struction, from ladies riding astride to the
final humane destruction of the moke. The
book contains 500 photographs and diagrams
illustrating all possible practical points, and
reproduces many pictures and statues of the
horse in art, as well as photographic por-
traits of most of the famous horses in the
world. As there are several blokes on this
continent who are more interested in horses
than in motor-cars, the book should find
purchasers. Incidentally, the author repro :
duces the worst poem upon the horse that has
been written. As the horse is said to possess
an extraordinary imagination this poem may
have been written by a moke. The poem
ends thus:—
The friend of King, of Prince, or Tsar,
But does not like a motor-ear.
With champing steel and restless paw,
He waits outside his lordship’s door;
Eager to start with dashing speed,
The cruel whip he does not need.
When kindness greets his listening ear,
He’ll safely take you far and near.
With mournful pride and pluming crest.
He takes us to our final rest.
DORN-MAWN.
“Not a word about dawn-morn. That controversy
is dead.” —Red Page, 8/6/’16.
I have for you the frabjeous scorn,
That noble midnight feels for dawn!
Why were you critics ever born ?
Bah! Go and put your head in pawn!
Do you expect the Muse to fawn,
Sweet singers grow projag, forlorn,
Because the Red Page says that “sawn”
Is but an oompty rhyme for “thorn.”
My poet’s license I have torn,
No more I swink till graveyards yawn.
I write no more. To-morrow morn
I go to work concocting brawn.
N.F.S.


w a
II
o
w t?
©rder
i
Finishes Wednesday, Aug'. 16, 1916
Send for Sale Catalogue, Posted Free on request .
Offered in the Show Rooms
at the NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM during
Anthony Horderns’
21 Days Sale
Ladies and Maids’ Coat and
Skirt Costumes.
Ladies and Maids’ Robe Cos=
tumes.
Ladies, Maids and Children’s
Dressing Gowns.
Ladies’ Evening and Reception
Gowns.
Ladies, flaids and Qirls’ Cos=
tume Skirts.
Ladies’ Riding Skirts.
Fashionable Ostrich Boas and
Necklets.
Dainty Blouses in Newest
flaterials.
Ladies & Children’s Raincoats
and Macintoshes.
Ladies and Children’s Tweed,
Serge and Cloth Coats.
Ladies’ Sports Coats in Silk or
Wool.
Ladies’ Kimonos and Wrappers.
Children’s Coats, Dresses and
Rompers.
Ladies and Children’s Millinery, Un-
\ trimmed Hats. Flowers, Feather
* Mounts, Ornaments and Beads.
The STRAIGHT TIP
HERE are cogent reasons why everyone
should embrace the exceptional opportunity
for Money-saving that is afforded during
Aptbopy Nordgrps* 21 Pays Safe
Apart from the Reductions in Prices shown
in the Sale Catalogue, it must be borne in mind
that the advance in laid down cost of the principal..
commodities imported into Australia will be
HIGHER IH THE CONIHfi YEAR
than ever recorded in the history of'this Country’s
trade. We, therefore, unhesitatingly advise our
Customers to buy during the reign of
flptbopy Horderps’ Sale
with the Full Assurance that the Values offered
are Far and Away Better than obtainable else-
where .
We candidly state that Every Article Offered For
Sale at the New Palace Emporium has not been
• reduced in price, but the pages of the Sale Catalogue
furnish particulars of Over One Hundred
Thousand Genuine Bargains, and in addition to /
\ these many Oddments & Remnants will be offered //jf
)\\ in the different Departments at Clearing Prices. (W
lANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


h
3! fi?
II
B sf
Mil
j ju S
M)
w®
§£® t
ml 9 9
fS
$ I
°® M
I
g^Sy*
X
Z\
v\
s/>
r
22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
equipment if you will select
the reliable w brand.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
111*110
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
ĥ
Make Your
Own Cans.
If you buy Tin Cans of any
description you are paying for
these machines.
WHY NOT OWN THEM?
Make your own cans and the
machines will pay for themselves.
Even the small Can Maker or
Packer, whose output is only 5000
to 10.000 Cans per day, will save
money by using the
“AMS SYSTEM”
for making or closing Sanitary
Cans.
tl
um
o m
eati
We have machines exactly suited to vour needs, whether
your output is 5000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
,"e will gladly send, without obligation, prices and
pictures of machines adapted to your needs. Send us
samples of your cans or drawings with complete dimen-
sions, and state the quantity you make.
CORRESPONDENCE IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Address Dept. C-14
The MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agents i
W. E. HUGHES (a CO., Condon, E.C.
H. W. PEABODY (SI CO., Sydney, N.S.W.,
England.
Australia.
Tfifoe JBoot^-Caroalsier
Am ctAS stoem
CHEAPER THAN
tlecfricitv, Coal-Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All".
1 . tk
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son ud.'
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd.,
Melbourne
35
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
ħ
Works; Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.B.B.L. Hammerless
GUN, W. W. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safetv snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH’S TRIAL." Usually £10/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.B.B.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. W. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.B.B.L. GUN
—FARMER’S FRIEND —12-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY, 12/6
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO.,
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE-
“I certainly believe it was
Clements Tonic cheated death
from claiming me as a victim.”
“ I was pronounced incurable, and sent
home by those best able to judge.”
The following letter is remarkable for its earnestness in praise of this
wonderful Medicine, which does so much good to those who are run down
with debility of the system, and whose health appears seriously impaired.
Mrs. Craft’s case is well known in the Parramatta district (N.S.W.),
where she has lived for years, and the story of her long suffering is well
known and can easily be verified. How she suffered year after year, and
how she recovered through the use of Clements Tonic, is the talk of
Granville. Piead the letter that follows, and if you are ill with debility, or
suffering with weak nerves affd general weakness, try the magic of this
medicine, and give yourself a chance to recover good health. As it benefited
others, so it may benefit you. ' _ , TT _ ,
Palmer House, Cooper Street,
Granville, N.S.W.,
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. r
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the afflicted if I
did not ask you to make known what Clements Tonic has done tor
me. It may be the means of directing others to health.
“It is ten years since I first got ill, and I had a five years illness,
the oxiater part of which time I was not even able to walk about.
I was hi four different hospitals, and was operated upon m one. I
knowthe dread of the knife*played « nervou^co„ S t.tut.on,
so that I was not only w eak m bod* but weak in neives.
“T was pronounced an incurable, and sent home by those who
1 was pronounce sat by my bedside at night-time
were best able to juc g . - , T eertainlv believe that it was
were best able to juage. j ce rtainly believe that it was
expecting to see the las from claiming me as its victim. I
Clements lonic cheated district all my life, and it would be
have lived m the I a ’ l '‘ . ‘ nt y ou may use this as you think fit.
very easy to verify my statement. “(Signed) ALICE CRAFT.”
Witness: HENRY GOUGH, J.P.
Differ April 19, 1910
If you have Insomnia take Clements Tonic and sleep like a child.
If you have Constipation this medicine gives new stomach strength.
If you have Sick Headaches or Neuralgia it gives immediate relief.
Your home is not medically equipped without it. Get it to-day.
all chemists and stores sell it everywhere.


h
THE GREAT COLD
PREVENTIVE.
Wilson’s
Pino-Mentho
Pastilles.
The moment you feel, you have a cold
coming l that same moment—act. Don't
hesitate, or the cold may beat you.
Wilson’s Pino-Mentho Pastilles are wonder-
fully effective in checking cold. The
moment a pastille is dissolved in the mouth
the rich pine vapors are released and thor-
oughly search out the cold. Their soothing,
healing properties are immediately felt.
Always keep a tin handy—they’ll save you
a lot of trouble. Obtainable from all reliable
Chemists and Stores, 1/3 per tin. But
make sure it’s Wilson’s Pino-Mentho.
Alex. Wilson &. Co.
17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
ĥ
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAB
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 t. £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept A 282 LIVERPOOL.
ARE YOU
Have you grown tired., of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. .
Tt is suitable for nien, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Food enjoyed is
Food more nourishing.
CHILDREN do like
Gravy, and a little
Bisto makes a lot of
delicious gravy in
“no time” and with
no trouble.
ħ
" Everything
but the meat,"
All Grocers. In TiAs. Made by CERBBOS, Ltd.
h
ĥ
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day
H. SINCLAIR (Q, CO.,
Dept. 0,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
ington:
CARRAO6
B
iwiiHi^.
CumirrOl |
niW6GHS.fOi.OS JI-
N'/.
<eowc aoi
Baaßftss
Bonninptorvs
irish 6 moss
For Baby
Every child is prone to ailments of the chest
and lungs, COUGHS, COLDS, WHOOPING
COUGH, etc. The wise mother will at once
fly to “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss,’’ the safest and
most RELIABLE household remedy. The
SAFEST for baby is—
Avoid all
Imitations.
BONNINGTON'S
‘l, *
e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
M
i K
WAX
Don’t
Scrub
Keep Your Linoleum
Like New with
It Cleans, Polishes and Finishes
in one simple operation. For polishing linoleum it has no equal.
It brings out and preserves the pattern. It imparts a beautiful finis'll
which any housewife can easily keep in good condition. It does the
work quickly —an ordinary-size floor can be polished in less than an
hour, and may be walked upon immediately. It won’t gather dust- 4 -
doesn’t show heel or finger marks—never becomes hot or sticky—is
unaffected by water —is sanitary, durable and disinfecting.
Beautify Your Home with
Johnson’s
Prepared Wax
TRY
it on your furniture or piano—
the improvement will surprise you.
It gives Craftsman furniture that
•V,.,
soft, artistic
polish so appro-
priate to the
style. It entirely
removes “cloud-
ine s s” from
mahogany furni-
t it r e, restoring
its original gloss. There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping the dining-room table bright and tempting—hot dishes have
no effect whatever upon it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax. It is
just as useful round the house ms soap. Itis always ready for use —
doesn’t deteriorate. With it all you need is a cheese-cloth or woollen
rag.
Keep a tin always at hand, ready for quickly and thoroughly cleaning
and polishing y'wur
Floors
Linoleum
Wood Work
Piano
Furniture
Leather Goods
\ Motor Car
Coif Sticks
Gun Stocks, etc.
Sold by Most Good Dealers,
Insist on your tradesman Supplying you. He can easily secure
Johnson’s Prepared Wax and Johnson’s Wood Dye through any of
our Australian Distributors :!
SYDNEY: Holdswcrth, Macplierson & Co. (Whol.); D. C. .Ramsay & Co.;
Jas.. Sandy 6s Co. ; 11. H. broth & Co.; Mark Foy’s Ltd. ; F. Lassetter & Co.
MELBOURNE: Jas. Ilardie k Co. (Whol.); 11. J. Corder; Mutual Stores; -and
Geo. Dean; John banks & Son.
ADELAIDE: King- & Co:, Weyrflouth' Street.
BRISBANE : Jas. Sloan & Co. ; R. S. Exton & Co.
PERTIJ: Hanier & Co. (Whol.) ; J4s. Ilastwood Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: Ilaft & Sons Co. j ( i : . lIOBARTI Davit & Co,
AUCKLAND : Hill & Plunnner Ltci.|
WELLINGTON (N.Z.): Gollin & Ptv. Ltd. -
S. C. JOHNSON 8 SON, “ The Wood Finishing Authorities,”
Factory: Racine, Wisconsin, B.s. A. Cable Address: Johnson, Racine.
Australasian Office, 1379 KfeNT STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS COUPON will bring you a generous trial tin. Post it to-day.
S. O. JOHNSON & SON—(Address c/o your nearest distributor). AC
I enclose 6d. for a trial tin of Johnson’s Prepared Wax, sufficient for polishing
several pieces of furniture, a small floor, a square ctf linoleum or a motor-car.
Please also send me your new 1/- Color Book free.
Name
Address
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love —and What Then?
Faith betrayed, and all that pother,
Tears and torment... .oh, let be!
If you choose to love another,
What is that to me?
If you stoon to dupe and trick me,
Why should I, forlorn, repine?
Love’s keen shaft can wound and prick me
Only while you’re mine.
So, dear lady, if you hold me
Lightly, if deceit's your trade,
Other arms will soon enfold me....
Get you gone, slim jade!
MX. Eixeeslie Grey.
Fallen Petals.
Hot-heart and flaringrcyes,
Where are you now?
Do you stay safe at home,
Keeping some vow?
Are you a wanderer
Under the sky,
Restless, unsatisfied,
Even as I?
Gipsy-one, petulant.
Haunting me yet,
Oh, the mad mouth of you,
Who could forget?
1 Ghost of a summer gone,
Mocking my sleep,
Holding white hands to me
I cannot keep!
Wilful and passionate,
Whom do you love?
What has lie won from you,
Rose or a glove?
Do you remember me?
How that you said:
‘‘Sweetheart, I worship you!”
Is it all dead?
Laughing-heart, sunny-eyes,
Have you learnt pain,
Sorrow or loneliness,
Hunger in vain?
Wiitched all your old beliefs
One by one die?
Tasted Gethsemane?
Dear, so have I!
Child-woman, heart o’ me!
Be where you may,
Weeping for broken toys,
Laughing at play,
Out of my thoughts for you
This one is best—
After your journeyings
There will come rest!
N.S.W.
MALCOLM ARNOLD.
The Threshold.
Just as the first glad brightness in the skies
Shows in the east to say the'day has come,
I saw a taking wonder in your eyes;
Your lips were parted, though your voice
was dumb,
Moved by a breath like that sweet breeze
that seems
To waken earth to passion from its dreams.
And as the earth in waking seems to stir,
Your breast with restless heavings warmly
moved.
O girl of passion! Innocent you were,
Glad in the thought of loving—being loved !
And all the world seemed, like-the dawn, to
sing,
When love was pure and fresh—and every-
thing!
Dreams are more true than anything we
know,
And so vision I shall truly hold,
Though with the years , the day’s first
wonders go,
And freshness stales, and passion’s fires
grow cold.
My faithful heart the work of time denies;
I saw the dawn of love within your eyes!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Morning.
All the world was morning sweet.
All the ways were bright with song.
Laughter, straying round our feet,
Trailed an echo faint and long—
Yellow hair and dancing feet.
Morning turned you to a song.
Music, as when earth was young.
Trembled down between the trees;
Dust of dreams was lightly flung
On the sighings of the breeze;
All your breath was music flung
Lightly to the sighing trees.
Laughter, music, dream and song—
Earth arose the sun to kiss
With a pulse too full and strong,
Morning’s wedded joy to miss.
Girl, the wine of dreams is strong;
Morning turned you to a kiss!
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
I Heard My Heart.
I heard my heart like some old engine
thumping
Deep in my chest, and Journey’s End seemed
near,
As when at sea some wearied piston bump-
ing
Calls out for rest to some grey engineer.
How many miles? How many years of
steaming
Across blue seas and oceans black as
jet?. . . .
Unanswered all the queries of my dream-
ing!
Beat on ! Beat true ! We’ll find the Harbor
yet!.
N.S.W.
K.


RELIEF for RUPTUR
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENYER
PRICES :
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
1
h
r
A Steel-Lined
Cartridge
means a strength-lined cartridge
“Nitro Club”
Shotgun. Cartridges
Made in 10,12,16, are steel-lined
so, 24 and 28 gauge £ 0 above the
powder charge
—g i v in g
strength to
the case and
power and
penetration
to the shot
charge. Also an even pellet
distribution that makes for good patterns
and a heavy bag.
Loaded in London with the popular English powders. Obtainable
from leading dealers everywhere—catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 680, Melbourne.
w*
THE BEST
SMOKE
ts
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
ĥ
[PERFECTION m DESIGIUIAJtRIALS and WQRKMANSHII
*
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
See also page 48.
MOTOR SCHOONER “EVANGELIC," SOUTH SEAS MISSION.
Fitted with 50-ii.p. SKANDLA crude-oil engines, speed 10 knots. Fuel Cost
Is. jjtl. per iiour full speed.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loft us Street
SYDNEY.
m
o w o
WJ>wii
■
SMITH’S
Four-Jet Carburetter
is the only one which gives maximum power with
maximum economy. Holds World’s Record —maximum
power—R.A.O. certificate —36-61 miles to gallon 311 cwt.
car.
Pitted Standard, Crossley, Humber, Daimler,
Tilley-Stevens and Launchester, Sizaire-Berwick.
Follow Experts’ Advice.
Fit SMITH’S Carburetter.
• k Write full particulars to
S. SMITH (SL SONS,
Manchester, London, and
199 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using-
WILSON’S CIMMOM-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498, Elizabeth St., Melbourne. [1
LIGHTNING CALCULATOR
Just what everybody wants. Errors m figures
often mean big losses. The Calculator can-/''
not err: a mistake is impossible.
Carry it in your pocket like a Handsome /
Watch. It jnay save pounds the first/
time you use it. Strongly made, easily
managed, quite simple Vou can, for >
example, multiply In instant
47 by 14 = 658, with the Calculator.
Oltßy 5/ft anywhere by registered post.
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St., Melbj_
ħ
■q
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
DUVAL & CO.
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE,
A. C. McCALLUM, Perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1902.
THUJISDAY, JULY~27, 1916.
PgrcE 6d.
THE SACRIFICE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.
Printed and published by William -Macleod, of
Musgrrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for '
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Austialia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have 'lnn
Bulletin sent regularly to you every ween for a
year, including Special Christmas dumber, to any_
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to l e
Manager. *
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
!"7he contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pait of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse Short laics
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Fetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. w “ en
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. iVhen MS. is 1° rn , arded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
tire copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er.-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires further those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of Mb.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or was, ft,
ot sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draivn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Covies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and bon,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.: G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver . B.C. „ T ,
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco,
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph ana
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, /63 Richards
Street, Honolulu. ,
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt, M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt. _ „. .
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
/; °Ceylo°n.— lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maorilana,
Fiji British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, IGoz.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed m each
packet — otherwise: So.z., Id.; Sioz. to lOoz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 1?.0z., 3d.; elsewhere, -'iOZ., Id., and id. each
additional 2os.
'ffiuTZ&'alleifai.
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1916.
THE SOLDIER AND THE JOB.
It is generally conceded tliat if the obliga-
tions of Empire threw upon Australia the
responsibility of fighting the German, the
obligations of ordinary decency demand that
the fair thing be done by the men who take
up arms. To some extent these have been
met by (1) paying the army more liberally
than any army was ever paid before; (2)
making more liberal provision by way of
allowances and pensions than any other
country engaged in the disturbance; and
(;5) generously subscribing for the susten-
ance and treatment of the wounded and
for the amusement and entertainment of
the unwounded. But all this has discharged
tally part of our responsibilities. There
remain others. Among them are those con-
nected with the problem of “repatriation.
Up to the present we have not got beyond
the stage of passing resolutions and talking
in a vague, clamorous way about doing
something, and the difficulties to be faced,
and the need for action and all. the rest of
it. But what is going to be done and by
whom and how and when is by no means
as clear as it ought to be. Indeed, there is so
much vagueness about it that “repatriation”
threatens to become merely a shibboleth, or
an excuse for consulting Cohen and making
horrified remarks about the labor market.
It seems to The Bulletin that after two
years of war. and with thousands of men
already back from the Front, the time is
about ripe to definitely understand this
business. It has been messed with long
enough. And it is not unreasonable to
inquire when “difficulties” are mentioned to
what extent these have been manufactured
for the occasion, and whether they have
anything to do with the war, or whether
they did not exist prior to the departure of
the troops and will remain in existence long
after the army has left off khaki and got into
moleskins.
The responsibilities of the people of
Australia towards the army are heavy and
definite in several directions. The widows
of the fallen, the fatherless children, the
men who are sent home permanently
maimed, those who return partially disabled
and all who come back sick or in any way
incapacitated are and must be the nation s
care. And the extent to which justice is
done to these victims of the war will be the
measure of the national sense of honor.
Every good Australian would have these
responsibilities discharged to the utmost
farthing. The Bulletin believes they will
be; Australia’s form of government makes
it certain that in this direction the Common-
wealth will perpetrate no mistakes. 1 he
liability will be easily expressed m terms
ot £ s. d., and the bill will be on the table
for public inspection. It is going to be no
small bill either. The toll exacted on our
tioops at Gallipoli was great. In all human
probability the toll taken in France and
Flanders will be equally heavy. Our men
are fighting no mean enemy, and the task
before the armies is stupendous. All this
means a big final reckoning—a big burden
for Australia to bear. Australia carries a
good solid weight already. This one added
is going to try the nation’s strength as it
has never been tried before. And because
this is so. and because the burden must be
carried, there are very substantial reasons
for being exceedingly careful that Australia
is not stampeded into projects that will
have the double effect of increasing the load
and decreasing the national ability to carry
it. By hare-brained schemes of land-resump-
tion and getting more deeply into debt the
two things can be accomplished with prompt-
ness and despatch.
So far as it lias gone the talk about
“repatriation” has been built upon a theory
that men coming back from the war will
experience great difficulty in obtaining
employment —that Australia, having de-
nuded herself of, say, 300,000 of her
strongest, most active men, will be unable,
without causing chaos or something, to take
them back. If this theory rests on a sound
foundation it is a frightful condemnation
of past Australian statesmanship. But this
paper refuses to believe that there is nothing
for them to do in Australia, and resolutely
declines to agree that in order to find them
something to do more of the public credit
must be pawned to buy out landowners, or
that there must be further trafficking with
Cohen to “develop our great national
resources,” which have already been
developed at staggering cost to everyone
concerned. At a conference of Common-
wealth and State Governments held at Mel-
bourne in May someone announced that he
“shuddered to think what might happen if
200,000 or 250,000 men were to_ return and
try to get back into their old niches or try
to* find an opportunity to make a livelihood,
unless there was some thorough organisa-
tion in view of their arrival.” W hat is
there to shudder at —the arrival of the
men, an apprehension that the weary old
borrowing imposture is about played out,
or a suspicion that Australia is going to
insist as hitherto on sending work to
foreigners instead of doing it on _ the
premises? Of course a quarter of a million
men are not going to be dumped down in
one spot to run around like ants looking for
a job. These men have been mustered from
a continent three million square miles in
area. They will return gradually to the
districts they came from, will be sprinkled
over the landscape from the Leeuwin to
Carpentaria, and it is an idle fear to appre-
hend that tlie vast majority will find them-
selves in respect to employment in any
worse position than they were before they
went away. But there is no idle fear in
the apprehension that Australian politicians
may use the talk about “repatriation” as a
screen to cover more borrowing, more going
into debt, so that they may hold up the
ruinous institution they coll “prosperity.”
Somebody in a moment of transport
promised that men going to the Front would
on their return to Australia be “given
farms.” This has boiled down to a more
or less vague arrangement to expedite land
settlement. Once brought face to face with
this question politicians realise that here
Australia has on hand a most unholy mess.
Two hundred millions have been spent in
railroading a country with a population of
five millions, and every mile of railway built
has made it more expensive for people to get
land. The effect of the borrowing and the
building has been to put millions into pri-
vate pockets, to put up the price of land
against the people and reduce the State to
the madness first of borrowing money to
inflate land values and then borrowing
again to rescue land for public purposes or
for occupation by another settler. The evil
of this lunatic policy can be glaringly seen
now when various agitated Ministries assert
that soldiers cannot be provided with land
for settlement unless more millions are
spent on railways—and this with existing
railways running through unpeopled wilder-
nesses, and scores of thousands of holdings
yielding a mere minimum of production!
Of course this paper has nothing to say
against Australian soldiers being given
opportunity to settle on land. The idea is a
good one. The more settlement there is the
better. But we must have a settlement
that does not put added millions into pri-
vate pockets—a scheme that does not merely
fling the settler into a bog of debt.
* * * *
To provide a source from which advances
may be made to soldier settlers is one of the
main purposes of the Commonwealth
Repatriation Fund, and The Bulletin
hopes to see this fund liberally subscribed
to. So far as it is applied to men who take
up selections on lands served by existing
railways, the investment will be a sound
one. But if recourse is to be had by the
States to a system of borrowing for the pur-
pose of acquiring land, then the consequences
will be the enrichment of Fat, the impover-
ishment of the settlers, and the perpetuation
of a practice which has proved a gross fraud
on the community wherever it lias been
tried. Treasurer I liens raised his voice at
the Melbourne Conference in warning
against land purchase for settlement; and.
following the same line, it is to be hoped
that he will protest against our soldiers
being made an excuse for dragging the
Australian people further into debt and
sale-tracking the questions that are vital to
the successful occupation of the land of this
country. Even if Governments are afraid
to make the speculative landholder loosen
his clutches, that is no reason why either
the Australian public or the Australian
soldier should be fleeced again. ‘•Repatria-
tion” is a word that rolls easily off the
tongue. “Providing farms for soldiers ’ is
a phrase that sounds well. Both may cover
patriotic intention and genuine solicitude
for the men who have fought Australia s
battles. But behind word and phrase the
political shirker can find cover for a lot of ad-
ditional shirk. Were the nation’s tariff tackled
with a resolute desire to make it what it
should long ago have been, there would be
employment for many more men than are
going'to return to Australia from Flanders
and Egypt. There would then be an oppor-
tunity also for the investment of many
millions, and any superfluous millions that
might be still lying about could possibly be
used in bringing a place called the Northern
Territory closer to Australia. There is
room for a lot of people up there without
buying someone else out.
WHY NOT EXTEND THE CENSOR-
SHIP?
Among the peculiar weaknesses that
modern progress has evolved is the prying
curiosity which desires to peep into all
corners and be informed upon all facts. No
word can be said against the desire for
higher and nobler knowledge. The study of
Plato —as Oxford University lias proved, in
defiance of other seats of learning—is a valu-
able addition to the soul’s outfit, while too
much stress cannot be laid upon the import-
ance of a thorough acquaintance with the
Greek and Latin classics and the higher
branches of mathematics. The desire to
know, where the knowledge applies to things
academic and outside the practical sphere,
is to be highly commended; but no con-
demnation can be sufficiently strong for the
extension of the spirit of petty curiosity to
the realm of affairs. The gossip of the local
ale-house and the tittering tale-bearing over
the back fence have in our crowded com-
munities developed into the news and
comment of the newspapers; and only by
the severest restrictions on the part _ of
those in authority can the inquisitive spirit
of the community be now 7 kept in check. The
press censorship during the present war has
done good w 7 ork, but it requires to be con-
siderably extended before the value of its
efforts for the public good can be appreci-
ated to the full. With certainty it may be
asserted that never before in the course of
history has the moral and ethical value of
a blue pencil been so effectively shown: but,
with the results already achieved to point
the way, there seems no reason why green,
red and even yellow pencils should not also
be employed in the great cause of national
self-restraint and that faith in authority
which is the true basis of all docile and
unperturbed citizenship.
Already, under the wise control exercised
over printed matter, certain most im-
portant actions of Federal Ministers may
ba withheld from criticism. This, of
course, is as it should be. With a great war
on hand and a mighty continent to control, it
is above all things necessary that the men
of outstanding genius and towering intellect
who have charge of Commonwealth a H airs
at home and abroad should be allowed to live
and w r ork in an atmosphere of perfect calm,
far removed from the babble of the voices
of the crowd. To harass them with com-
ment, criticism, condemnation or advice is
to lessen their peace of mind and restrict
the sweep of their action; and the censor-
ship which guards them from the cold blast
of outer thought and feeling must be counted
among our national blessings. But the con-
stitution of our Commonwealth is such that
blessings of the kind cannot be confined to
Ministers in the Federal sphere without rais-
ing the question of State rights. Why should
the censorship protect one class of Ministers
only, while another that would derive equal
benefit from such protection is subject to
even severer criticism from the press ?
Under the guardianship of a blue pencil of
sufficient magnitude State Ministers could
really get busy and show 7 what they are
capable of. There is no telling to what splen-
did heights of achievement a Minister like
Arthur Griffith might soar if all facts,
suggestions and comment with regard to his
administrative acts were rigidly suppressed
in all newspapers. Without such protection,
it must be admitted, a statesman’s hands are
tied. To any right-thinking person it must
be abundantly clear that an extension of the
censorship to matters relating to State Min-
istries is among the great needs of the hour
and should have a foremost place on any
programme of reform.
* * * *
Take as merely one example the question
of borrowing. How hampered must Wil-
liam Holman often feel himself by the com-
ments of the newspapers and of the poli-
ticians whom the newspapers report? Yet
Holman says that borrowing is essen-
tial for the development of the country.
He declares it a national necessity. More-
over, it is the policy of the country: a Gov-
ernment which practised it appealed to the
people.and w 7 ns elected triumphantly. How
much easier it would be to carry out the
thing that is necessary for the development
of the country if unpatriotic people who dis-
approve of borrowing were silenced! Bor-
rowing being the national policy, and
declared by the people to be necessary for the
country’s salvation, it seems to us obvious
that the state Government might properly
ask that no statement should be made which
would prejudice the raising of one single
bean. This would put an end to all the
tittle-tattle w 7 e hear from time to time about
tiie waste of money on political works, and
any other unpatriotic talk that might lead
some person with a hundred pounds to put
it in the bank instead of passing it over to
the Treasurer of the State.
But to stop the development of the censor-
ship when it has merely afforded sanctuary
to Federal and State Ministries would be
a decided mistake. In the cause of national
organisation we should go much farther, lhe
affairs of our municipal councils are in
some respects of equal importance to those
of the States; «nd the time has come when
the interference of public curiosity should
be eliminated with regard to them. hhe
tierce light which beats about the seat or
W. A. Holm ax or his deputy beats with
equal brilliancy around the chair of R- *- ■
Meagher in his job as head of the city ot
Sydney, and narrows and restricts his efforts
in a way that largely prevents him from
coming to liis own. Again, the various
Boards, Trusts and other official organisa-
tions are too freely subjected to the petty
tyranny of the public eye, and might wen
be safeguarded from such inquisition, lhe
police, too, who labor under many disac -
vantages, might have a little consideration
shown them. The publication of stories ot
crime and subsequent Court proceedings
leads to much fatigue and the loss of a gien
deal of leisure. Were these things properly
blue-pencilled from all printed matter little
light and brightness might be imported into
the notoriously unhappy lot of the worth}
and too-often unappreciated guardians ot the
law. Further, it must be noted that all
extensions of the censorship are in the nature
ot' davlight-saving reform. The amount ot
time wasted by the general public m repeat-
ing the news concerning official actions pub-
lished in the newspapers and making suitable
comment upon them is dead loss to the
community. No war-time economy .could
be greater than that which might be effected
by turning off these torrents of speech and
setting the people free to employ their s iaie
time in growing cabbages in their back
yards, to the great benefit_ of the national
health as w r ell as of the national pocket.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Relation of Doves to Sausages.
It is at least possible that Prussian mili-
tarism and the Kaiser may get the knock-out
blow from somebody not in the least con-
nected with the huge Allied forces that are
now hammering at the German hues ol
defence. The stories of hunger riots in Ber-
lin and other cities have come through with
some regularity, and the cumulative evi-
dence is to the effect that llans is seri-
ously pining for his sausage and very angry
indeed with the people who threw it awaj
on a. pretence of finding him a place in the
sun. llans was persuaded that his bosses
knew their job, and that they really could
make things more glorious for him by the
use of explosives. Now he knows better, or
if he doesn’t know he is rapidly learning, lie
sees nothing but hunger ahead, with more
hunger to follow, and plenty of graves in
between: and the chances are that, as tie
cables say, he is fighting for a loat m
Leipzig with quite as much enthusiasm as
his brother fights for a yard of French trench
near Verdun. One interesting point about
his change of view is the bearing it may have
on the peace proposals when the war-teast
reaches the course where the dove comes in
with olive garnishings. To dictate terms
to a broken Kaiser is one matter; to demand
The Englishman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back where the border of Time recedes
From the chronicled years oi: inch.
My coracle stirred the grating i’eeds
And the slime of the shoreless ten ;
Wild, in a wild thing’s pelt, I eked
Harsh living from wood and Sea *
The wicker crackled, the captives shrieked,
The Druid chanted, the god-stone reeked,
And the hut-folk fled from me.
There, ere our tally of time began
I was an Englishman!
West, where my short-necked spearmen
strode, ,
The men of the Severn railed;
North on a ribbon of Roman road
My glittering legions trailed.
Grandeur of speech and the fighting lust.
These were the gifts I gave—
Order from chaos and sweat and dust.
Late, when a gibbering Tyneman s thrust
Under my gorget drave, .
I laughed as I died! Did my heart divine
That the English blood was mine.'
After, I drove my Frisian keel
On the dunes of the Wessex shore,
Titled my fief with a pen of steel,
Mated and fought and bore
Till, when the Dragon at Stamford shone,
And the spear ripped Tostig’s side.
I spurred for the south with Godwinsso.n,
And, charging the Norman gonfalon,
At Harold’s feet I died!
England, I gave to you bone and tliew —
I who was English too!
Harrying up to the sorry Forth,
Foraying down to the sea,
Scored I the furrows from south to north,
With the harrow of Normandy.
Squire was I of the old Romance,
Heavy of hand and heel,
Yet with the fire of coastward France
Edged I the blundering Saxon lance,
The slotlilier Saxon steel.
This you had missed had I passed you by,
For I am English, I!
So have I drawn to me (whence have I
not?)
Men on the swan-path since—-
Norsemen and Fleming, Jew and Scot,
Burgher, beggar and prince.
Huguenot zealot and broken Russ —-
The sixteen winds and the sea
(As once to the city of Romulus)
Bore them to weld and to wed, and thus
Fashion my nationry ;
Never a nook of the world but owns
Englishmen living or English bones.
Paladin oft-times, plunderer oft.
Henchman of pride and sloth.
Bullying, god-like, stern and soft,
Liegeman and laggard both ;
Nations shall bourgeon, aiftl ripe, and rot,
Yet shall the peoples know
As in the gaunt years unforgot,
The call of my race-line polyglot —
Slow waking, to ire slow,
The splintering shock of my strength at
spate.
Merciless, chivalrous, all-but-late!
N.S.W.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


payment from republicans who have broken
him would be quite another. To say that
i lans is a very decent follow if removed
from the influence of his leaders is, of course,
to talk in defiance of knowledge. Hans was
in the great international crime up to his
neck; and the whole German nation stands
condemned both for its making of the war
and for its conduct of it. At the same time,
republican France could not hold much hate
for republican Germany, in spite of all the
crimes of the past. Taking one thing with
another, the lack of sausage in Berlin looks
as if it thus might produce tremendous re-
sults —results Jarger even than those pro-
ceeding from the cannon which are singing
their strident odes to Desolation on the
Front.
«.
The Advantages of Doing Things as
One People.
Tue opening of 14 Houses of Parliament
each year is a solemn circumstance, and will
apparently endure for a long time yet. The
present system is. however, untidy ; and with
a view to getting a start with the business
of co-ordination, this paper suggests that a
Conference of Premiers should be held imme-
diately after Hughes returns, in order to
systematise the opening of the multitudinous
Chambers. The advantages of having the cere-
monial performed simultaneously throughout
the Commonwealth are obvious. It would be
nationally impressive. It would be convenient
to the Cocked Hats. It might even suggest
Empire. It could be made the occasion of a
public holiday and great social rejoicing.
The public would certainly get a better hang
of the beautiful machine they support. If
The Day were fixed the rest would be easy.
Early in the morning the public could be
aroused by the roar of cannon. Getting an
early start they could rush towards the
Houses of Parliament. Then the arrival of
the local Cocked Hat, surrounded by an
armed guard and pursued by motor-cars,
could be heralded by more cannon and loud
applause, and the entry of the official party
could be made with appropriate dignity. The
Speech could be standardised, and throughout
the length and breadth of the land the public
would know that the same thing had been
done and said at seven different places—that
Black Rods had whistled several hundred
persons together; that Cocked Hats, sur-
rounded by millinery, had in firm, clear
voices taken pieces of paper out of their
pockets and proceeded to make speeches
which were not speeches but recitations. If
the recitations were to this effect they would
about meet the bill:—
Honorable Gentlemen of tiie Legislative Council
and Gentlemen of the Legislative Assembly:
(1) It is with great pleasure that I summon you
to make a pretence of doing something.
(2) The war finished several years ago, and it is
exceedingly gratifying to my advisers to be able to
announce that it is not going on.
(3) Rain fell the day before yesterday, and the
result should be to make the grass grow.
(4) The Government has continued to inquire into
various matters requiring attention.
Gentlemen of the Legislative Council :
(5) You will be pleased to learn that you will be
asked to accept allowances at the rate of £lOOO per
head per annvgn.
(6) My Government has decided to aslc your
acceptance of life railway passes for all members of
our families and relatives by marriage.
Honorable Gentlemen of the Legislative Council
and Gentlemen of tiie Legislative Assembly:
(7) You will be asked to consider Bills dealing
with important proposals relating to
(a) Getting more cash.
(i>) Spending more cash.
(c) Promising more cash.
(d) Developing our great national resources.
(8) I invite your earnest consideration of the
matters proposed as the subjects of your delibera-
tions, and pray that under the guidance of Divine
Providence your labors may conduce to -the well-
being and prosperity of the party in power.
This having been worked off, the decorative
effects could clatter away on fiery chargers
and. the bills be circulated for public infor-
mation, while 14 Speakers proceeded to adorn
themselves with 14 wigs, and 14 Maces were
laboriously borne forth, and the concentrated
intellect of the nation applied itself to the
consideiation of how host to lay more bird-
lime for Cohen.
More Howls for Shutting;’ Things Up.
()N the day last week that N.S.W. Bung
got final notice to turn off the beer supply at
G o clock a deputation rushed a member of
the Ministry with urgent appeals to “stop
prize fights.” The appeals were made on
what the deputationists called “moral and
national grounds,” these being (1) that
boxmg contests at the Stadium are brutal:
(_) that the attendance of people thereat
wounds the susceptibilities of individuals
with friends and relatives at the Front;
(b) that instead of looking on at these con-
tests men should join the army; (4) that
the imported png is an undesirable immi-
grant; (o) that while war rages the com-
munity ought to bo made to recognise its
obligations; and (0) that the whole thing
is a scandal. The Bulletin is not going to
the Stadium is a centre of
that from it there is wafted through
the community a fine ethical influence. Nor
should it be necessary at this stage for
this paper to say that it regards the non-
performance of military duty by pugs and
by “fans” as a gross scandal—none surely
has said so more plainly. But it takes
the same iiew of the draper and the poet
and the chauffeur and the actor and the
lawyer. The trouble is not that the Stadium
is open and that boxing matches take place,
but that there is no general definition of
social responsibility. If there was compul-
sory military service where would the objec-
tion to the glove-fight be? To call it brutal
is absurd. A conflict between Darcy and
McGooriv. for instance, is a long way less
brutal than a Rugby scrum. And there is
the further circumstance that a large pro-
portion of the people are not fit for military
service. Are their liberties to see an ath-
letic display to be restricted because a
few individuals are not in the army’ Is
the returned soldier to be prevented from
seeing a glove-fight because Ginger Mick
or Exquisite Percy didn’t get into khaki?
The sober truth is that the war is being
put forward as an excuse for censorious
interference with every citizen of the Com-
monwealth and for making a penal offence
of enjoyment of any kind except such as
may be approved by deacons and church-
wardens.
Whisky by Measure.
Ladies and Gentlemen, Brother Fax will
now address you :
One of Melbourne’s licensed victuallers lately re-
belled against the local brewery combine. The rebel
had offended the powers that beer by refusing to
raise his price for bottled spirits, imported by, him-
self, up to “the trade’s” standard. He was content
with a smaller- profit than other retailers exacted
from their victims; and the Combine, being the
bloated capitalist at the back of many such retailers,
took measures to reduce the rebel to submission.
He was denied further supplies of Australian beer,
whereupon he retaliated by retailing imported spirits
and ale and stout in fourpenny doses, which was an
awful innovation on the trade’s established rule.
Thus he gave away the fact that the public has been
grossly overcharged by the trade in general since
war prices came into force. When, in December,
1914, the duty on spirits was raised, the wholesale
price for “brands” was raised as a matter of business
necessity. It went up mostly 15s. a case. Hotel-
keepers thus had to pay another 15d. per bottle. To
preserve their large margin of profit they would have
needed only to ask 7d. a glass for the whisky and
soda they had previously sold at 6d., seeing that each
bottle is reckoned to yield 15 drinks at the counter.
Many hotelkeepers estimate a bottle at 10 drinks, the
average customer, especially in the morning, being a
very moderate nipper, who nips only to oblige his
friend or keep a clients in countenance. Nevertheless
the Melbourne retailers conspired to raise the charge
for “brands” to 9d. They stuck 3d. on the drink
where Id. would have sufficed. They did as the
grocers, drapers and other sorts of shopkeepers have
been doing. They demanded an exorbitant profit on
the extra amount they paid for the goods.
“Derrink” being, in a wowser way of speaking, an
accursed thing which everybody would be better
without, Government regulation of whisky prices is
not to be expected. Nobody can plead that the wel-
fare of the community demands a reduction in the
cost of the liquor that makoth glad the heart of
man by stealing away his brains. Besides, the
drinkers themselves are primarily responsible for the
imposition which is now practised upon them. They
have accepted the silly old American custom of help-
ing themselves from the bottle, which is expected to
average 15 drinks to the vendor. But the rebel who
lately introduced fourpenny drinks to notice doled
them out by measure, in English fashion, and this is
what should be the rule everywhere. A reasonable
citizen wants no more of a nip than the publican
can afford to sell him for 4d. What the boozer wants
is another matter. Let him pay extra for a larger
dose, even as a woman in a 3d. icecream shop has the
option of paying 6d. for a double quantity.
Another absurdity in the hotel trade was the cus-
tom of giving the customer a right to demand
aerated water with his whisky, as though it cost no
more than water from the tap. For the continuation
of this custom the Trades Hall was accountable.
When the hotelkeepers last year proposed to make a
fixed distinction in price between whisky straight
and whisky with soda, the Trades Hall protested that
it would be injurious to the aerated-water trade, and
so the old absurdity was retained.
It is the moderate drinker, with a preference for
plain water with his spirit, who has all these years
been paying for the “pass-the-bottle” and “extra
sodas free” anomalies. He is the profit where the
immoderate customer is a loss to the publican. He
suffers in his pocket in order that the greedy boozer
may not be charged according to a fair rule. It is
time for the reasonable citizen to revolt. If he wants
fourpen’orth of his fancy brand of whisky he should
be able to get it—by measure. A concerted demand for
the reform would bring the supply. And the cor-
morant publicans and soakers, together with the
autocratic brewery combine, would be euchred.
I.W.W.
Dear Bulletin, —Of course, tlie I.W.W.
people are quite mad. Most of them know
they are. The newspapers can be depended
upon not to let them forget it. But the daily
yell at these people for being mad is not going
to make them sane. Their particular form of
madness is catching, and you can take it
from one who has no party gods to propitiate
that the disease is spreading. And what is
more, it is going to spread. But when we
have yelled at 1.W.W.-ism and the S. M.
Herald recovers from its next paroxysm,
and W. Hughes has assailed the I.W.W.
with fiery jaw, I want to ask you as a man
and a brother, what we propose to do about
it. Suggestions for putting the I.W.W. in
gaol and suppressing its spruikers and other-
wise jumping on it are clearly inadequate.
They merely add fuel to.the fire. There is
the possibility of putting the owners of
I.W.W. principles on the noxious-weed list,
but unless W. Hughes and the Argus care
to propose that, it looks as if the casting out
of devils will not be complete. Meanwhile it
occurs to me that there is a tremendous
volume of yell being poured into the wrong
ear. 1.W.W.-ism is the doctrine of the dis-
ordered digestion, the unstable mentality, the
wild eye and the delirious phrase. It is the
doctrine of despair—nothing else. And the
reason why it has got foothold—and a
stronger one than the newspapers care to
admit—is that Labor is despairing, that the
rank and file have something more than a
suspicion that they are being fooled. Are
they wrong or right in that? Let it be
granted that 1.W.W.-ism leads to the Devil.
Well, where does ScADDAN-ism lead and 110 -
MAN-ism? What are Hughes and Tudor
and Pearce offering? Australian men and
women have been very patient. They have
been very trustful. But they are growing
impatient and mistrustful now and intolerant
of carrots. The spread of I.W.W. theories is
the result of the failure of the men who
called themselves the leaders of Labor and
are now wandering about with chloroform
bottles. Is it conceivable that the Australian
democracy can be argued or bludgeoned into
having their political choice limited to two
awful political alternatives—the Liberalism
of Joe Cook and Co. on one side and a loan-
mongering travesty of Labor’s ideals on the
other? To me the idea is fantastic.
The truth is that our party system has hope-
lessly broken down, that the people are being
fleeced by politicians, and that the mental
bankruptcy of the official Lib. and Lab. and
his camp-follower is pitiable. Everyone of
them is quaking in his shoes. It is not the
fanatic on the soap-box who is making con-
verts to the I.WAV. The base betrayal of
principle by the other fellow is making them
by the hundred. And that brings np the old
question again—-well, what about it? Is no
one going to offer the toiling mob a fair share
of the earth and the fruits thereof, or must
he. for ever take £l, which K Ninas accuses Of
• being a disguise for 14s. 6d., and thank
Cohen he is still alive?— Wm. Tracker.
♦ -
The Struggle Against a Secret Distri-
bution of Disease.
Even if it be admitted that there is room
for difference of opinion in these things,
what force is there in the argument ad-
vanced by N.S.W. Chief Secretary George
Black against making venereal disease com-
pulsorily notifiable? The indisputable facts
are that the disease is rampant; that it is
the cause of widespread misery, inefficiency
and human decay; that it is easily distri-
buted. That is stating the case in ihe very
mildest terms. And Black's objection to
making this disease notifiable in the same
way as smallpox: and plague and tubercu-
losis and other contagious and infectious
horrors is that the result would be to
“drive people suffering from the disease to
quack doctors and chemists.” If this' is
his only objection the Minister has not a
leg to stand on. Notification of leprosy
and diphtheria and scarlet fever does not
drive people to quacks. Why should it be
supposed that there would be an exception
in the case of venereal affliction? And can-
not quacks be rooted out of their holes and
corners? The fact is that ignorance and
fear and the lunatic conspiracy of hush
under which the spread of this disease has
been cloaked have more than anything else
been the cause of making sufferers look to
the impostor for relief. The character of
the disease has not been understood by
men and women; its frightfully insidious
nature has not been realised. The news-
papers and the pulpits and the politicians
have all conspired to impress the public
mind with the tragic idea that syphilis and
gonorrhoea must not be even spoken of —
that they are visitations from the Most
High, the consequences of Sin, and that
anyone suffering therefrom had about him
something that should be kept secret be-
tween him and his Maker. Therefore
the rogue with the pill and the ointment
has flourished exceedingly. Even the
medical-schools’ course of instruction in the
treatment of venereal disease was until
quite recent years a perfunctory and more-
or-less unpleasantly jocular circumstance.
Unless bubonic plague was a notifiable
disease, how could the thing be grappled
with? And how can any other communi-
cable disease be adequately fought? If
quacks have to be fought as well, good
enough ! But in this case what has to be
wrestled with most strenuously is ignorance,
and notification is the best of all methods
of rousing the public to recognise that there
•is a ravening monster at large. Under a
sane system of warfare against venereal
affection the State would keep track of the
system of treatment pursued in the case of
individuals. How could this be done with-
out notification?
♦ — :
Sydney’s Underground Railway.
llolman says the construction of the Sydney
city railway isn’t postponed—only put off
owing to the difficulty of getting material in
war-time.. The difference is rather too fine
for the ordinary intelligence, but the state-
ment itself seems to call for a question or
two. Does Holman imply that the material
for this railway must be imported as well
as the cash or credit to construct it? Is
there any material in a railway of this sort
that cannot be obtained in Australia?
Timber, bricks, metal and everything else
required for making ordinary holes in the
earth through which trains can run would
appear to be obtainable in the Common-
wealth ; but possibly there may be a stick
of sealing-wax or a blotting-pad required
for the office before things can begin to
move. Anyhow, seeing that there is such a
delay and that whether “postponed” or “put
off” the underground railway isn’t going to
be made at once, Holman might give a
little thought to the alternative proposal of
decentralisation by the construction of
much less expensive railways to some of our
closed ports, for which the material is
certainly all to be obtained in Australia-
even if it is war time. With two or three
other trade outlets created, Sydney could
get along very decently for some time to
come with the existing traffic arrangements,
and the whole. State would benefit tremen-
dously. Of course, the congestionists, who
would like to build the city up 20 storeys
high all over, want as much railway as they
can get below their feet; but these people
aren’t exactly profitable to the community
and have had a- pretty good innings. To
set them gnashing their teeth would be a
fine' stroke of policy, and every gnash would
be a testimonial to Holman’s integrity of ’
purpose. But there is little hope that any
such exhibition will be seen; for the con-
gestionist’s smile is set, and he trusts
llolman to gild his Sydney possessions bv
piling all the people and trade he can into
the space between Darling Harbor and
AVoolloomooloo Bay. Meanwhile, with
wheat rotting and city storage limited, the
bloat policy becomes a national calamity.
Peace at Any Price.
I" 1 ’ is about time somebody started a new
Peace Society with a gun stamped on its
official notepaper. The thing that now
raves its faith in brotherly kindness in spite
°f the horrors of Belgium, Servia and the
baby-killing raids on the British coast is too
insane a proposition to be allowed the copy-
right of a very good and satisfactory name.
\Wien the old gag “Peace at any price” was
being hurled against Gladstone in the
happy days when a Phoenix Park murder
was the biggest enemy offensive in sight,
some heckled statesman is supposed do have
replied. “Yes, _ peace at any price, because
the highest price ever paid for peace is less
than the lowest price paid for war.” In a
general sort of way that statement is true •
but the real trouble is that the Peace Society
folk behind their disastrous umbrellas are
never willing to pay the price of peace v The
real price of peace is the cost of keeping
strong enough in a military sense to make
the other fellow afraid to tackle you. In
the actual .event of war, as at present, the
price of peace is the cost of sufficient armies
and munitions to thrash the enemy to a
finish. Looking at the matter with as little
prejudice as possible, it seems as if the
utmost price that Britain could have paid
in the past in order to be equal to any call
to arms must, even in the aggregate, have
been less than the cost of this war; and the
fact that millions of lives would have been
thus saved from death or misery must
weigh down the balance very heavily in
favor of planking down the necessary cash
before the crisis arrives. By a fluke—which
fluke is represented by the stubborn valor
of Frenchmen, Belgians and Servians—Bri-
tain has been allowed enough time to raise
armies which can give an account of them-
selves before the finish ; but the thing was
an immense gamble, and gambling is sup-
posed to be abhorrent to the souls of Peace
Society people. War preparation is simply
decent insurance against the madness of
somebody else with a gun. The idea of a
lot of people in Australia, that we are quite
safe, as long as Britain can muddle
through, must be given up forever. When
the present trouble is over—and as
much before that date as possible—the
Commonwealth must face this matter of
insurance of her own national ideals and
the lives of her own people in grim serious-
ness. Because there is no immediate danger
threatening, the organisation of that insur-
ance can be carried out with some thorough-
ness. Had England so organised about the
time when W. T. Stead and Alexander
111. and the Hague Conference were mixed
up in a wild whirl of doves’ leaves, olive
feathers and Christmas carols, there would
be no war going on now. If there had been
a Avar in 1914 it would have stopped Short
with a heavy jolt somewhere about Liege or
Namur.
“X.Y.”: The production of synthetic dyes
is one of .the most intricate in the whole
range of industrial chemistry. The chemist
has not only to produce a given color or
shade, but he must produce it of a standard
tinctorial capacity. This is a most difficult
matter, as different batches of the same
stock of coal-tar derivative, put through
exactly the same process, with similar re-
agents, will vary in tinctorial power
between very wide limits. As textile manu-
facturers demanded that dyes of the same
name should be uniform in color and tinc-
torial capacity, the German chemists stan-
dardised them. The manufacturer, there-
fore, had only to weigh out the same quan-
tity of dye to obtain a uniform result in
shade and dyeing power. It was variability
in the products, as regards coal-tar colors,
which killed the English trade. The Eng-
lish workmen had not the capacity for taking
pains into which the German chemical indus-
trial operative had been trained, and the result
was that the manufacturers bought the stan-
dard German dyes even at a higher price. It
is sad and annoying, but it is true, and wo
will have to admit the fault and remedy
it if we are to be independent of llans
after the war. In peace or war the only
way to beat the enemy is to do better than
him, and you can’t depend on even your
mother to buy your inferior dye for
ever. She may do it for a little while out
of natural love and affection; but her
patience is going to give out some time.
Therefore—Go thou and do better, or at
least as well as the enemy.
♦ —
“Barcoo” : That most deplorable country,
the Northern Territory, has once more
laughed at its traducers. On June 8, at tin'
London sales, wool from Avon Downs, Barkly
Tableland (N.T.), brought up to 45d.
per lb. for scoured fleece, and the whole clip
of 368 bales averaged 42d. During the last
20 years this wool has more than once when
sold in Australia either topped the sales oi-
lmen thereabouts, even when treated on the
station in a primitive way. Avon Downs was
taken up by Tom Guthrie, of Geelong
(lie.), 30-odd years ago. His initial mis-
take was that he stocked with sheep of the
Tasmanian type, and they did not acclima-
tise for a long period. The Western N.SAV.
type are the sheep for the Territory. The
Avon Downs merino, however, has now
'veil accommodated itself to its conditions.
On several occasions wethers have walked
into Hergott Springs, between 600 and 700
miles, taken the train to pastures near Adel-
aide, and after three or four weeks’ spell
have topped the markets. The Tableland,
where these good beasts grow, is only a small
portion of identical country which runs right
through to Kimberley (W.A.), and it has
been estimated to have a carrying eapacitv
of 10,000.000 merinos. This part’s time wiil
come, and its settlement is going to start
inland first, sheep displacing cattle, as they
have in Central and Western Queensland,
where two districts that 40-odd years ago
, WS cattle-run now depasture
9,000,000 of the heaviest-cutters and highest-
priced wool-growers i n Australia.
■ 4. .
IN a ere : There blew into my humpy the
other day a "Calendar of the University of
Sidney for the year 1916,” and being inter-
ested in agricultural work I turned up the
“Department of Agriculture” and found a
galaxy of six lecturers with nine students
scattered over a course of four years. But
this wasn't a circumstance alongside the
‘Department of Veterinary Science,” in
which 11 lecturers are employed to cram
knowledge into five students for four years.
As compared with this, there were 533
embryo medicoes listed as attending lectures
at the Medical School. Now N. S. Wales
has to depend largely on the agricultural
industries to pay the interest bill and keep
the pawnshop boiling, and it isn’t reas-
suring to. find that two “Departments”
closely allied with these industries can onlv
attract 14 students. The University Senate
might well consider if there is not some-
thing wrong with its system of concentra-
tion in making attendance at lectures com-
pulsory. There are a lot of highly intelli-
gent Australians in the State who cannot
afford to spend four years in Sydney. These
buslifcllows have a sound practical knowledge
of farming and horses, and could grip tile
finer points of the science more quickly
than the scarce city youth for whom the
University waits in towns. Anyway, what’s


c
&
h
.7%
YX.
Isn’t it a fact that you never hear T>f
loose treads on a Goodyear Tyre?
The Goodyear breaker strip is a speci-
ally woven, porous fabric, made in our
own factory.
When the vulcanising process is under
way, the rubber, forced through this
porous strip under the tremendous air
pressure of the exclusive Goodyear On-
Air Cure, forms into many tough rivets,
and these rivets literally clinch or weld
the tread to the carcase.
And is the net result of these seem-
ingly insignificant Goodyear Features?
Why, simply this —that loose treads of
Goodyear Tyres are practically un-
known. The tread on Goodyear Tyres
will wear down to the breaker strip,
and through it, without splitting open.
Goodyear Tyres are also fortified against
blow-outs by our On-Air Cure, and
against puncture and skidding by our
Double-thick All-Weather Tread.
Buy a Goodyear All-Weather Tread and
compare the wear with not any other
but all other types.
Road Shock? Can’t Tear
These Treads Loose
• ■ ft
Goodyear Tyres, Tubes , Belting , Hose, Packings , etc., are now
obtainable throughout Australia and N.Z.
wrong with bringing the “Department of
Agricultural Science” into the. country,
where it belongsV A notable omission from
the curriculum is any information on the
science of marketing products. Australian
farmers are now producing a great deal
more than they know how to dispose of
without losing most of the profit on the
way. A course of lectures on what other
countries have achieved in the way of co-
operation—the real science of profitable
marketing—would be a great deal more
useful than teaching youths to grow crops
in order to keep an ever increasing mob ot
middlemen fat and merry.
Billjim is right up against it again, and
the last Tiie Buixetin heard of him he
was locked in a desperate struggle with the
Ilun for possession of a village on the
Allies’ line of advance. It is only the little
village of Pozieres that no Australian had
ever heard of or wanted to hear of until
the other day. But it is a name that will
henceforth be burned into the memory, for
on this French hillock the - troops of
the Commonwealth have had their first big
collision with the German, and it is there
that many an Australian soldier-son and
brother will find a grave. What the losses
among our lads have been cannot yet be
known. But we must steel our hearts for
sad news. It is no use thinking that there
can be participation in such terrific fighting
without heavy suffering. Each day makes
it clearer that the job of rooting the enemy
out of the places where he has fortified
himself is an undertaking of stupendous
difficulty; and whether the Allies are going
to speedily succeed in the job they started
on three weeks ago is still hanging in the
balance. What is certain already is that
they are now making the German fight as
he has never had to fight before, and
bleed as he never bled before. But
it is certain, too, that to achieve a decisive
victory the Allies have a lot yet to over-
come ; and anything short of decisive-
ness will not have been worth the loss of
life involved. Meanwhile the one com-
forting feature about the summer campaign-
ing is that on both Fronts the initiative
has passed from the German to his oppo-
nents, and there is no sign of the position
being reversed. The great question of the
immediate present is: How long can the
Allies keep the Western push going? If
they can maintain the shove as long and
intensely as the Russian is keeping his
shoulder behind the wheel, the Kaiser will
be a much worried person when the autumn
leaves commence to fall. The persistence
of the effort is, of course, mainly a question
of reserves. And the question of reserves
is mainly a matter of the individual’s
answer to the nation’s call for help.
«
From a man in the middle of it; —
The Federal Government has “requisitioned” all
rabbit-skins, but at prices that will administer a
severe shock to the business. ffest skins have le-
cently brought 2s. 3d. a lb. at auction, and even then
it is only in places where it is impossible to sell
carcases that skin-getting- is profitable enough to
follow. The Government top price of Is. Bd. is so
much less that many skin-trappers must throw up
the game. There is much more work about trapping
for skins than for carcases, and with the increase in
the number of freezing works in the country there is
a big incentive to get in touch with a factory. Con-
sequently the Government prices would seem almost
certainly calculated to very largely decrease the
supply of rabbit-skins sent in by trappers, and make
the shortage more acute. Probably the Government
will eventually have to turn its attention to the fur
exported on carcases, as it is thus that the bulk of
it leaves the country. Incidentally, skin-trapping
keeps rabbits in check in districts where trapping
for carcases is impossible.
George Meudell’s beautiful yarn from
’Frisco: —■
On March 8 a party of jolly Germans met in a
cafe here to sing songs and toast the success of the
Teuton armies. When everybody was very fu’, the
chairman, one Sigismund Vinterfeld, signed a post-
card on behalf of those present, addressed, in Ger-
man, to the “Crown Prince, Verdun, France,” read-
ing, “Go ahead, Fritz, we are all with you.” Like
the cat of lyrical fame, the postcard came back,
stamped Verdun, May 4, and across it in French,
“Not yet arrived at Verdun.”
In connection with the Federal Govern-
ment’s scheme for a picnic to America, the
present idea is that each of the dozen
revellers shall get £2 2s. per day “expenses,”
plus steamer and railway fares, while the
secretary and the journalist will get £8 per
week each, with exes, on the same scale.
What the Commission is to find out no one
seems to know. For instance, Tasmania is to
send two representatives to inquire into
paper making. Yet only the other day the
Tasmanian Government imported a Yankee
expert at a cost of about £lOOO to come and
report on the Speck’s chances in paper-
making, and was told she had none. As she
certainly doesn’t make any paper and never
has made any. it isn’t likely that she has
anybody who can study paper-making with
effect, anyway.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOW'S FOR COMING WEEK.
Her*Majesty’s “The Belle of New York’’
Criterion “The Boomerang
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Elays
Union The.vi;: s •• Moving Pictures
Little Signaller Tom Skeyhill
MEI.BOUIiNK SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “To-night’s the Night’’
Royal “Romance
King’s “Reg o My Heart
Princess’s Gonsalez. Italian Opera Co.
The Playhouse “The Superior Race ’
Bijou Fuller \ uudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's \ audeviile ( o.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciaiuusi Ice Skating
«.
Last week at Melbourne Princess’s a new
and less sophisticated contingent was added
to the patrons of grand opera. The folk
who always “wait for ‘Faust’ ” came along
for the first time this season to hear the oid
familiar airs and rejoice in the fact that
one language is much the same as another
when you know the narrative by heart.
The Gonsalez Co. makes a sufficiently good
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
(“ Faust”).
Capelli in disguise.
Russ as Siebel.
job of “Faust” without breaking the record,
as was done in “Un Ballo” and “Aiignon. ’
Cacialli (the Devil) is the least effective of
the principals, his basso being rather light
f. v full Satanic expression and his style ot
acting non-theatrical. Even in his descent
to Hell, with red fire to the left of
him and a crude vision of the kingdom of
Heaven stretched the full width of the stage
behind him —even then Cacialli failed to
thrill this observer. His red hair was
flagrantly unreal and Ills deportment didn t
reek of sin nncl wickedness. In the It&licin
opera version of “Faust” the Devil returns
alone to the place where the red fire comes
from. His pupil is saved by the grace of
Margherita. And Capelli plays the name
part as though he deserved to escape. He
is never light-hearted in his rejuvenation,
but always seriously in love and earnestly
desirous of “going straight” as regards
morals. He sings the music of the first
scene with particular sweetness, and is ten-
derly reverential in his rendering of Salve
Dimora, where a piercing high note to finish
with is usually supplied by tenors of the
louder and shriller order. Miss V isoni is
an animated Margherita—a bit stagey in
her sad, emotional scenes —whose voice
fairly meets its heavy responsibilith s.
Filippini’s versatile baritone achieves a
great success in the thankful part of Valen-
tino. Miss Russ dresses Siebel in flaxen
ringlets, a tunic and tights—like the act-
resses of long ago used to dress Rosalind
in the Forest of Arden —and her mezzo s
not nearlv so true and tuneful as that of
Mrs. Piccolo, in the little part of Marta.
The lately strengthened male chorus does
very well' in “Faust,” though not so well
as in the latest revivals of “Rigoletto” and
other operas. The scenery is good; but the
stage management has lapsed utterly into
the old Italian habit of lining up the chorus
in semi-circular form.
* * * *
“Favorita,” presented on Saturday night,
is not so musically iuviting as “Lucia,” the
only other enduring example of Donizetti’s
art. The opera contains many sweet pas-
sages for the leading tenor and his Leonora,
but even the tenderest lyric has an undertone
of pious melancholy in keeping with the re-
ligious atmosphere of the subject. In
“Favorita” the composer celebrates the power
and influence ofjdie Church. The ex-novice,
Fernando, who weds Leonora and becomes a
king’s favorite, can only think of drowning
his sorrows in holy water, when the crushing
discovery of his wife’s past with the King
makes her society impossible. Fernando goes
back to the fold over the corpse of Ins peni-
tent spouse, with the same recognition ot
the Church's authority that compels his fes-
tive monarch to part with Leonora and
become a respectable husband once again.
Donizetti gives liis richest orchestral dress-
ing to the salving of Fernando’s wayward
soul, and puts into the mouth of that emo-
tional youth a lovely parting song full ot
dissipated rapture and vain regret. Ca-
pelli poured all the feeling of a broken heart
into every note of the item on Saturday, and
elsewhere sang with an Italian’s passionate
exultation in the picturesque possibilities of
a romantic role. But Capelli’s erotic yearn-
ing was mostly in his beautiful voice. llis
bearing towards Leonora was guarded to the
verge of coolness, and two or three conven-
tional attitudes of a love-sick tenor had to
suffice to express the fire that was burning
within him. True, Miss Russ, as Leonora,
was not very encouraging. She never em-
braced her young man with any ardor, whilst
her depressing vibrato merely gave a sort ot
corrugated intensity to her message of love.
On the physical side, however, she had some
endearing voung charms, which apparently so
affected the King (Belloni) that he also
developed a vibrato when he had to glorify
the lady in song. Still he warbled with genu-
ine feeling, and in other ways made a most
impressive royalty. Cacialli’s useful bass
kept the whiskered monk Balthasar well in
the picture; while Mrs. Belloni in the minor
part of Inez revealed a small soprano seem-
ingly suffering from nervous prostration.
The" male chorus, cowled and otherwise, was
very agreeable, and the feminine part of the
support was only a little awkward in stage
behavior.
* * * *
The new production for this week will
be “Aida” on Thursday and Friday. The
Saturday matinee bill is “Mignon,” followed
in the evening by some more “Faust.”
ITALIAN GRAND OPERA AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
CONDUCTOR GIOVANNI GONSALEZ
bringing the chorus into line.
Sydney James's Strollers (Tarts’ manage-
ment) had a rousing reception at the Palace
on Saturday night on their reappearance
after a long tour. There is practically no
change in the co. since it was in Sydney
last, and such minor alterations as there
have been neither strengthen nor weaken
the entertainment. So all that The
Bulletin formerly said about the show
holds good. Sydney James’s humor sparkled
particularly on Saturday, and his ventrilo-
quial turn with “Billy” was a gay and glad-
some item. Madeline Rossiter (James s
strongest support), G. W. Desmond, Gwen
Lewis, George Graystone (he used to earn
money for the J.C.W. firm), Connie Miln,
Arthur Frost and Cyril Northcote helped
to cheer up the congregation.
Numerous motor-cars without and a
mighty crowd within the walls of Melbourne
King’s last Saturday indicated that “Beg
o' My Heart” had found popularity waiting
for it. Expectation was mostly satisfied
yet partly disappointed by “Peg.” The
simple plot is suggestive of Little
Mary,” but it lacks the satire of Barries
clever comedy, and it is based on obvious
absurdities. Fofc instance, Christopher
Brent, the comparative villain of the piece,
is supposed to have come to a complete
understanding with the daughter of the
house of Cnichester. They are already
almost ripe for an elopement when the cur-
tain rises. Yet the oily Hebrew in the
opening scene talks of his distaste for his
wife and expresses his yearning for a “kin-
dred spirit” as though he were pressing his
illicit suit for the first time. And the hard-
as-nails young woman, whose voice would
strike cold to any bad man’s soul, argues the
point with Christopher as though it were
new to her. The situation and the char-
acters are equally unreal. For the rest of
the plot there is a mild-spoken young man
who disguises himself under the name of
Jerry, whilst dodging in and out of the
Chichester domicile as casually _as
Christopher aforesaid, until he reveals him-
self as Peg’s legally-appointed guardian;
also there is an alleged bank smash which
turns out to be a mere fracture, and a dog
fight behind the scenes, and a thwarted
elopement, and Peg.
* * * *
Peg is not so much a part of the plot as
the whole of the show. She is the Maggie
Moore of 40 years back, licensed to be just
as free and easy as she pleases. Peg hap-
pens into the dull burlesque of a high-toned
English domestic circle and proceeds to cast
Hibernian repartee at the icebergian women-
kind and the contemptible men. Her man-
ners range from the effusively winsome to
the intensely irritating. The greatest fool-
ishness of the Chichester women is in treat-
ing her as a dire calamity instead of a
trying joke, and the redeeming circum-
stance in the stupidity of Alaric, the family
idiot, is his explosion of delight when he
finds that Peg would rather be dead than
married to him. Her laugh and her pet
dog and her belief in her beloved father
would be terrible things for any perfidious
Saxon to have to live with. She entertains
her lover with bits of anti-English declama-
tion borrowed from the speeches of her
father, who has been a wandering Sinn Fein
agitator. Finally she figures as guardian
angel to icicle Ethel, and then, having taxed
two other men with the crime of offering
to marry her for her fortune, sfie proposes
to marry the disingenuous and almost in-
audible young man who had been carefully
concealing his knowledge of her wealth.
Practically he was the heiress-trapper in
disguise. But the plot of the little play
matters nothing to its chance of success.
Sara Allgood is not quite all that Maggie
Moore might have been in the name part in
olden days, nevertheless she is a magnetic
Peg, with a mellow Irish voice and a happy,
broguish way of playing the little divil.
Other members of the co. seem to have been
picked in England to suit their respective
types of character, but in no case is
type forcibly presented. A stage setting
which serves for the three acts is admirably
solid and tasteful,
“Our Miss Gibbs,” revived for oue brief
week of musical bargains, is now waking
old echoes at Her Majesty's, Sydney. The
Honorable Hughie and other ghosts walk
or prance again according to their habit,
work off the old gags and thoroughly con-
vince the stalled patron (who had some sus-
picion of it before) that nothing on this
earth looks quite as old as a revived musical
comedy. The fine and plentiful music covers
a multitude of makeshifts: but it can’t con-
ceal the ruinous old property-liat that Addie
Lennard sings a song about and tries to sell
to the Duchess of Minster. It looks like
some Napoleonic relic that was picked up
on the plains of Poland 100 years after a
cavalry charge; nevertheless the stage
Duchess has to regard the battered relic
seriously through spectacles mounted on a
pole. Phil Smith wears the right size in
parts as Timothy Gibbs, and Minnie Love
makes a winsome Cousin Mary. Leslie
Holland prances again as the Honorable
Hughie and sings the ancient “Yip-i-Addy
as if it had been invented only yesterday.
BLANCHE SWEET WEARS TROUSERS
TN HER NEXT PHOTOPLAY,
“THE RAG A MUFFIN.”
The bur glaring Trio grow weary waiting for
the lights to go out.
A Paramount Picture, releasing Monday
Next.
ODE TO MY OLD PAL BILLY, THE
VENTRILOQUIST’S DUMMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With the Strollers back at the old address
The pangs of the winter time grow less.
1 long no more for the old men’s home,
Xor sigh for the past when the pint-pot's foam
Spread round the clock till 11 p.m.
And there was no need of stratagem
To slake one’s thirst when the day was done—-
Alas, those days of the midnight son!
I snore no more in the movie halls,
Nor groan in the stock the-a-tre stalls
At the sweet soubrette of forty-four
(The one who writes to the quack drug store:
“Dear Sir, I have tried your Dead Shot Cure,
And the pains that I had to long endure,
Have left me quite. Yours thankfully”—
I wish the pains that she gives to me
Cor Id be charmed away by the chemist wight:
I’d buy the whole of his stock on sight.)
Hut, coming back to this other show,
It'll do for me and the rest can go—
I lose my grouch, and forgive my cold,
And forget for an hour that I’m growing old ;
I drop my cares and I smooth my frown
When the Royal Strollers come to town.
X.S.W.
BILLY B.


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
“BE WELL ASSURED’ 1
NEW SEA SONQ
By EDWARD GERMAN.
“BE WELL ASSURED”
Words by RUDYARD KIPLING
(From “ The Fringes of the FJe.t n ).
OF ALL MUSIC-SELLERS.
CHAPPELL <P. CO. LTD., 167-171 Collin, Street, Melbourne.
PEAPES&C9ITP
PEAPJS’ MILITARY BOOT
f , I ,r ; fl 'V Sled l b P^ t ’ f ’ uitc water-proof, with care-
n?«,n ted le ; lth , e , r lining-, full-cut, water-tight
tongues, heavv doubie soles, with wide rope-stitched
and serviceable boot. patte ™- a comfortable
rn stout Dark Tan Willow Calf
In stout Dark Tan Chrome Calf
Black Box Calf, for station wear, .......
We Pay Postage. Please state size.
32/6
27/6
25/-
H»
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEN
ĥ
Derek Hudson is Eynsford, the young sing-
ing nobleman who pursues shopgirl Mary
with honorable intentions; and Claude
Bantock enjoys himself once more as the
pathetic old Earl who quavers about “my
boy” and is a good stage father to Hudson.
Bantock is tremendously in earnest and
seems bent on proving that a good heart may
beat beneath a starched shirt-front while
sitting in the House of Lords and wearing
a coronet. Florence Young wears some
smart gowns as the spendthrift Mrs.
Farquhar and looks the freshest and most
modern item in the production. Florence
is no dusty revivalist if clothes and jewels
can save the situation. “The Belle of New
York” is due on Saturday.
Concerning the show at Sydney Criterion,
the only thing in “The Boomerang” that
looks wrong to an Australian is that a
young man lias a nervous breakdown
because one particular young woman won’t
“OUR MISS GIBBS ,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Hughie, the amateur crook (Leslie Hol-
land), tries to steal Philimothy Smith-
Gibbs’s watch.
mnrry him. In this country young men
con t have a nervous breakdown because a
gut turns them down. There are too many
nice cures handy. (What a pity it is, by
the way, that Hale Hamilton can’t pre-
smbe Myrtie Tanneliill for influenza! This
office has just had influenza.)
Ben Fuller has discovered the recipe for
tiffing the void in Sydney Adelphi. War-
economy prices and mixed revue-vaudeville-
bui Jesque have done the trick. So everybody
is smiling again and “The Follies of Plea-
**P le i* s at least another week to gild
the gloom that had settled upon the back
rows.
: != $ :Js
Horace Goldin is still taking down the
multitude in a wholesale way with the help
oL 35 assistants and a mountain of props,
lhe retailer in the same business onlv
requires 1 confederate to patter with. 1
innocent barmaid to allure, and 1 pub to
escape through; but, then, the real-lifer’s
turn is brief and disappointing, and often
horribly expensive in the end. Mennetti and
Sidelli supply one of the best turns on the
other side of the Tivoli’s Sydney bill, which
grew six more dancing feet last week-end.
J key belong to the Dick Dorothy Trio.
❖ :]<
ar^ess frivolity of “To-night’s the
rSignt proceeds as before at Melbourne
Majesty s. The piece isn’t a feast of music
or a flow of humor, but it is full of gaiety
ana JM'l, and the black-and-white setting of
the first act is an interesting study in liow
to be festive though funereal.
. Romance,” the picturesque melodrama
at Melbourne Royal, will run for one more
week. After that, “The Story of the
Rosary.
** * *
Next week, when The Ideals have gone
away, there will be two more Evelyn
K-cotney concerts at the Auditorium. Also
the impressive Russians—Mirovitch and
1 lastro are to make a Saturday matinee
appearance, supported by a professional
orchestra.
v S.’<
. Cardo and Noll, who warble very pleas-
ingly in Italiano, and Rose Berry, who is
songfu! at the piano, reappeared at the
Tivoli in Melbourne last Saturday. Other-
wise the turns are as they were when the
previous Bulletin came to light, and some
are less interesting than others.
Melbourne Playhouse is opening again. On
this Saturday and next, and on the interven-
ing Wednesday, the Repertory co. plays “The
Superior Race,” by E. H. Oliphant. “The
Superior Race” is a problem comedy, dealing
humorously with the question of the Yellow
Peril and mixed marriage.
$ $ $ :£
Tsuda, the Jap who balances on a couple
of chairs mounted precariously on a large
white ball, is keeping Melbourne Bijou audi-
ences in strained amazement this week.
Tsuda’s work is perfect in its way.
Meredith and Adnil, who follow the pathetic
business of lifting huge weights with their
mouths, and Corrigan and Vivian, a pair
of sharpshooters, are other new lions in
Fuller circles. Also reappearing is Lou la
Mert, stridently supported by the whistle of
brother Sam. Lou would sound just as well
without Samuel’s assistance. Still, their
brotherly companionship is a soothing cir-
cumstance in a ruffled world.
if
Saturday’s thrills at Hoyt’s theatres,
Melbourne, were “The Fruits of Desire,”
featuring Robei-t Warwick, and “The Sec-
rets of Society,” with Theda Bara in the
leading role. Theda appears as the degene-
rate daughter of a drunken parent, and
commits bigamy, child-desertion and other
misdemeanors in an unparalleled succession
of expensive gowns. But let us give thanks
for the clothes. Her acting merely amounts
to rolling eyeballs and unnecessary grimaces.
$$ $ $
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has success-
fully played the uncomfortable “David
Ballard.” It is a true Rep. play. In the
theatre which depends on the box-office,
David, breaking away from his soulless
family to live the Higher Life, must have
come back as a success. Here, at the
uncommercial Rep., he is precisely the fail-
ure they have all foretold, and, but for the
easy solace of love, his finish is as hopeless
as his beginning. Wilfred Neill, who is
just enlisting, made a brilliant farewell as
David, and was well supported all round,
especially by James Anderson as the in-
effectual father, Wadmore as the cad
brother, and Ray Walsh as the humorous
minor character who at the crisis of the
drama turns philosopher and takes the
centre of the stage. Three fine character-
studies were given by Dorothea Jacob,
Lthelwyn Robin (a trifle too refined in her
shrewish part), and Zoe Reid, who had to
look 15 and contrived to do it. The play-
dragged a little at times; and, to the
mostly-feminine audience which the Rep.
Theatre now seems content to attract, the
scream of the evening came with the
entirely unheralded and unhinted-at appear-
ance of twins in the last act.
❖❖ * *
The Shakspeare season at Adelaide Royal
is better as it goes on. Wilkie is an
impressive Hamlet, and gives a thrilling
though improbable bustling finish to the
Play scene. He had the moral courage to
leave Romeo to Walter Hunt, and take
Mercutio himself. Miss Hunter-Watts
scored most as Ophelia in the Mad scene
(taken unusually quietly), and in the Bal-
cony scene as Juliet. Valentine Sidney and
Elwyn Harvey lend sound support in every
play 7, and John Cosgrove added to his fami-
“THE STROLLERS," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Strollers Desmond, Gray stone and James
sing of gay times at sea.
liar humors as Gravedigger a really irnpres-
sive Player-king made up like Shakspeare
himself. N York melodrama rages at the
Tivoli, and Australian (“Dad Dalton”) at
the King s. Mirovitch and Piastro have fur-
nished a series of concerts; Walter Emerson
is at the Majestic, which is not above giving
variety to its show by dropping in one
Chaplin him ; and Dampier, with the popu-
. i, Dene Cere, Hawthorne and Barrodaile
is having a good season at the Queen’s.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“First Old Man”: How these orators
draw. In the Vic. Legislative Assembly the
other day they were hard at it debating the
farcical Reply to the Governor's Speech.
I hey were, as usual, playing to the gallery,
and I hope they were satisfied with the
encouragement they received. I shouldn’t
have been, for the only “strangers” present
were three women, who had brought their
knitting, two men and a boy. The menioers
ot any crowd I’ve ever been connected with,
if they couldn’t ensure better business than
that, got their salaries cut down or were
given the sack!
Answered the call, at 62. Arthur Lissant
whose association with the Australian stage
dates back to the days of the first Gilbert
and Sullivan productions. He also
appeared in the “legit.,” notably as Canon
\v ealtliy in ’All Caine’s “Christian.”
Lissant was a capable actor, in his younger
days owned a decent baritone and was a
rapid “study,” but somehow he failed to
get to the top. He understudied George
Lauri and other comedians for many years
and did good work when lie got his chance
as the Dook of Plaza-Toro. Probably his
success was as .Pooh-Bah— which
isn’t surprising, for there was something of
that superior person about Arthur Lissant
in private life. Of late years he was in
control of the stalls staff at Her Maj.’s
(Melb.), and was wont to stand at the door
gazing severely over his pince-nez at those
who entered. Rut regular patrons who
knew him liked him and looked forward on
‘first nights” to his magnificent military
salute. Only a couple of months back he
made one of his periodical “returns” to play
Kenneth Mugg in “The Belle of New York,”
a part lie had made very much his own.
The Gonsalez Opera management is
strangely austere in its advertising methods.
Each new production is announced in a
casual way without any reference to the
cast. _ The day’s ad. merely states that a
certain performance will begin at a certain
time.. The first appearance of a new tenor
or prima donna is not specified and no par-
ticular inducement to attend any particular
show is offered. The programme, however,
is very communicative. It gives the com-
plete casts for a whole week—six nights
and two matinees—as well as the names and
dates of the operas for the week following.
Thus the Saturday nigliters can learn who’s
who until the next Friday, and what’s
going to happen for six days thereafter.
But never a word about the plots of the
operas, which were a feature of the pro-
gramme when Williamson ran an Italian
co. 15 years ago. Gonsalez leaves the story
of the libretto to be divulged on sixpenny
sheets by a speculator who bought the right
to sell them in the theatre.
Maorilander Ernest Parkes, who was
with the Dandies for so long, is now
strengthening a Williamson combination
with his rich baritone notes. Before his
professional days the name of Era. Parkes
on a Wellington concert programme was
sufficient to ensure a packet? Town Hall.
“Harrison O.” : After three emphatic suc-
cesses with “Jelf’s,” “Quinney’s” and
Searchlights,” it looks as if Vachell had
misjudged his public with “Pen,” a dramatic
version of Morley Roberts’s “Lady Pen-
elope,” which has just been done in darkest
London. Pen, the niece of a Duchess, has
tor lovers a blushful viscount, a Yankee
money-spinner, a muscular captain and a
Jewish poet. Declining wedlock, she makes
each promise that he will be more like a
friend than a husband. When it is announced
taat unt . o aer . a son is given all four—three
out of imbecile gallantry—claim parentage,
but it is finally proved that the honor of
authorship belongs to the blushing viscount.
The critics for the most part refused to be
shocked, and insisted that they were merely
bored. “There may have been some bright
design behind it,” wrote one in a tired tone;
“perhaps in another and a better world the
veil will be lifted.”
“Fax”: An actor’s first qualification for
hero parts in spectacular dramas such as
“Romance” is ' the ability to look young
and lovely. He needs a small, unintellectual
sort of head which will carry a lot of hair
—real or assumed —without appearing top-
heavy. He should have a tall, slim figure
that lends itself to poses befitting the lover
in an old Family Herald illustration. His
smile must be warranted to kill any young
woman at 10 paces. His clothes must be
smartly cut, if not actually worthy of a
tailor’s dummy. His motto should be
“Every move a picture,” no matter what
type of character he is impersonating. In
these pictorial respects Frank Harvey, of
the Williamson Co., is a most unsatisfac-
tory hero. He looks neither young nor
“interesting.” He might be a civil engineer
who is absorbed in his work and doesn’t
care tuppence for appearances. No gallery
girl would think of adoring him for hi's
lovely eyes, legs or anything. He’s only a
good actor with a matter-of-fact manner
and a commonplace personality. He aims
ar, suggesting real life in dramas where only
theatrical effectiveness is required. Nobody
should be natural in melodrama.
“Norbell”: Bilanderson’s stage manager
had sternly interdicted all gagging, and
warned the late Temple Harrison, who was
the greatest offender, that lie Would be fined
heavily if he spoke anything but the author.
One of the mummers bet that he would
make Temple break out. That night
Harrison was seated at a table trying hard
to look dignified as a senior military officer.
The pledged destroyer entered as an orderly
and saluted. “Despatches, Colonel.” “Put
them on the table there,” said the Colonel
in accordance with the script. The elderly
should have done so and retired, but he
stood there and said earnestly, “They’re
very important, sir.” “Well, leave them
there,” growled his chief. “But,” he per-
sisted, “they’re very urgent.” “Put them
there, sir, and go !” roared the Colonel. “But
—but—they won’t keep!” Then the goaded
Harrison let loose. “Won’t keep? Well,
dammit man, put ’em on the ice !”
“Silas”: I saw him in Flinders-street
(Melb.) the other night. His companion
had some educated canaries; he was doing
the painless-man act. He had two darning
needles through each cheek, one through the
lobe of each ear, and sharpened knitting
needles stuck through the muscles of his
arms and into the calves of his legs. He
bristled like a porcupine, yet he was not
coining money. “ ’Struth,” he said at last
in disgust at the size of the collection, “it
takes a lot to satisfy the amusement-lovin’.
public nowadays.” Amusement-loving!
(Continued on -page 35.)
The old Innamincka, once the crack
passenger boat on the coast, has at last got
her passport, and is off to the vague “East.”
Six months ago the vessel, which has fallen
below the inter-State standard, was sold
to foreign buyers. Alarmed at the scarcity
of tonnage, the Commonwealth Government
had declined to allow bottoms to leave
Australia, and the Innamincka was held up
in Port Jackson. Seven months passed;
then, as the owners refused to run her, and
the Government wouldn’t, the authorities
gave in, and the “Inkie Pinkie” takes the
long green track that leads from here to
there.
The latest syndicate offer to finance Tas-
mania was very much like the one with
which the Earle Ministry dallied for a while.
Ihe payment was to be in stock carrying
o per cent, interest, and issued at £9B* with
a currency of five years. Public works were
to be carried out either for a lump sum or at
schedule rates ; and it was suggested that
this would allow the Speck to start steel
works or cement works or any other old
thing. But the Ministry would not bite.
Maybe it dislikes sindicates in general;
maybe it dislikes this sindicate’s back-
breaking rate of 5J per cent, or thereabouts
in particular.
Hannah, M.L.A., doesn’t see why Hughes
should have all the ships, so he 'is asking
the V ictorian Parliament to co-operate with
lasmania in running a joint line of
steamers. Lee, the Speck’s Premier, was
asked what he thought about it, and being
a good Tasmanian, he said “Nothing.” So
the new r line is not going to arrive all at
onc-e—which, taking the present price of
ships into account, is just as well. But the
matter will have to be gone into presently.
Inter-State trade can be carried on amongst
rive states by public railways which don’t
look for dividends; and the State which can
only reach the others by means of a con-
veyance which is looking for dividends isn’t
getting a fair deal.
UTTER BARBARIANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sig’nor Comparo came to stay
At our fine “residential.”
Some of the dwellers rose to say
He was not quite essential.
A tenor he from some far clime,
Girls praised beyond all reason;
But. all the men growled at the mime-
They said perhaps he sang in time,
But always out of season.
One morn we bribed the rouseabout
To beard the trilling boarder,
And in the names of all the rout
To call the wretch to order.
Sam went with an unruffled brow—
His smile was almost saintly.
He said: “The gents sez, here and now,
You gotter stop yer flamin’ row!”
The Signor promptly fainted.
We heard a running on the stairs,
The sounds of females grieving’,
And sundry muttered Dago swears—
It was the Signor leaving.
“The row!” he moaned. “I weel not stay!
Sapriste ! How they treat you !
Oncivilised ! Igo avay !
And quick I go, for som’ fine day
These savage tribes vould eat you ! ’
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


A PURE FUR SOFT FELT HAT for s|6
*«■
The demand for an everyday hat suitable for city
or country that will serve its purpose to the
greatest advantage for the minimum cost is met
in David Jones’pure Fur Soft Felt Hat at 8/6. Fitted
with sweat-proof head leather. Newest shades of
Dark and Light Grey, also Slate. Trimmed Silk
Bands of Self or Black. Bow at side or back.
bi’im, with cut edge. Sizes 6£ to 7s.
Superior Qualities, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6 and 21/-
)VE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD
Opp. G.P-0.,
-SYDNEY—
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(aILBEY’S
PRY 6IN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & Co., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, ano,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Batn
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“0.K.” : For some time past the human
barometer in Australia has indicated a
steady decline in German hopes. J-hc local
Huns, who wore a self-satisfied smile for
the first year and who jubilated over the
sinking of the Lusitania as though they
thought it would terrify der vorldt into an
early submission to Sliermany’s vill to con-
quer—these swanking aliens have lapsed
into silence and sadness. They are looking
grey and glum, sick and sorry. They have
shed their swagger and put on an apolo-
GRATITUDE.
“My dressmaker sent Dad a letter saying
that she would make no more dresses
for me until lie paid my last bil l."
"Oh, what did he say?”
"Simply that he’d send her a letter of
thanks.”
petic air. Their news from Europe grows
steadily vo.rse, evidently. The final declara-
tion of peace was to be the signal for every
German and pro-German abroad to pose as
a true prophet and resume friendly relations
with the undeceived Britishers and others
who had not estimated Sherman organisa-
tion and kultur at their true vorth. There
was a last flicker of hope when news of the
Irish outbreak came to hand. But now it
is dead. Not by newspaper reports from
various theatres of war, but by the dejected
behavior of Fritz’s visage is a pessimist
persuaded that Shermany has done her
dash. Fritz, whose head is swelled no more,
has no strong faith in his country’s capacity
to play a losing game. He was quite pre-
pared' to be condescendingly polite to a
humbled people. His arrogance never out-
ran his hypocrisy. But he hasn’t enough
sense of humor to laugh at his own predica-
ment and acknowledge his Fatherland to be
a political fool, not to say a crazy hog.
From Gerard Williams, Oapt. Iv. la., who
came to Australia to look at the mines ot the
Commonwealth for the London Times and
stayed to manage Mt. Oxide (Q-) •
We’ve got the Anzacs near us now, and I've met
several. I knew what to expect, because I have
several Australians with me. Key, second in com-
mand of this co., was late chief engineer of the
British Broken Hill ;he is now a captain. Martin,
the sergeant of the attached motor cyclists, comes
from S Aus., and several of the sappers have lived
down under. Our G.S.O. is a South Australian—
Malcin, Wiltshire Regiment, who got a D.S.O. while
in command of all that was left of his battalion m
last year’s fighting at Festubert.
T see from The Bulletin that the Broken Hill
miner has been proving again what a poor creature
he is at bottom, striking when a war’s on, and I’ll
bet getting talked to quite prettily by the Govern-
ment. I’d like some of the able-bodied perishers
there to see the work the infantry do every day for
them —for Is. a day. By God, the Infantry are the
men! When I’m back in peace and mufti again I'll
raise" mv hat to every Infantry man I meet who
wears the war ribbon. The gunner and sapper do
a bit in the trenches, but they don’t live there;
they only work there. But the Infantry during
their period of duty live there. The sappers are
splendid, always working in unhealthy places ; the
gunners contemplate hostile artillery “activity ’
with the dispassionate regard of the real critic who
knows. But, day and night, the Infantry live through
Hell. There’s all sorts of fine men in the world,
but the British Infantryman is the finest. If there’s
anything finer than him it’s his officers. I’ll tell
you a story—it’s of one of the Highlanders,
who are in our Division. We have an arch called
“The Brickstacks,” and the gentle Hun strafes .it
with “Big Minnies.” Now a “Big Minnie” contains
about 1201 b. of high explosive, and it is fearsome—
when it arrives on the right spot. A “Minnie”
buried some men and a subaltern, and another lot
of men were digging them out. Another “Minnie”
arrived, killing lf». and wounding and half-burying
the young sub. His men rushed up to dig him out.
Pinned there, this British kid cheerfully promised
to shoot any man who didn’t obey his orders to
go back to cover. And so they left him. With the
next shell it was all over.
The Hun is a brute, a destroyer of ancient cities,
a murderer of children, a spoiler of woman but he
fights and fights stubbornly. It’s the only saying
grace he has—and alas, he can’t even fight fairly.
Still he isn’t a coward. I’d rather be the Hun
who deliberately fired Louvain’s priceless library,
who used women as a screen, who murdered civi-
lians, than be a man under 40 who funked. For at
least the Ilun fought for his country.
“X-Swords”: Billjim does
not always win in his en-
counters with the English offi-
cah. One Johnnie, conspicu-
ously affecting an eyeglass, had
been sent to supervise an Aus-
tralian fatigue party. The full-
raoon tickled Jimbill; and it
was not long before every man
had his identification disc set at
a quizzical angle in his eye, and
had discarded the politeness of
the Australian language for
“Don’tclier •• know,-old - chappie,
eli-what?” The officah stood it
for a while, and then, “Stand
fast! : ’ he barked. To a man
the disc-monocled crowd faced
the superior authority. “Look
heah, you bally blighters!” he
said very quietly, and extract-
ing the window-pane from his
eye. “See if you can do this!”
With that he took the monocle
between his thumb and fore-
finger, gave it a spin in the air,
and dexterously caught it in
his eye as it fell. That was
enough for Billjim and his
mates. They knew they had
struck a “sport.” and thenceforward the
chappie could wear 50 monocles if he
wanted to.
“W.1i.11.” : At last the English Tommy
has got some of his own back on the Anza.cs,
and everywhere in France and England
we are met with the query, “Any trench-
mortars to spare, Australians?” This cryptic
utterance has its origin in the careless
loss of two Stokes’ mortars, which the Huns
captured during a night _ raid on the
trenches of a certain battalion. The worst
of it is these guns were absolutely “it,” and
their construction is now no longer a secret
to the enterprising Bosch. You can bet
we’re so pleased.
Montefiore, the North Adelaide home of
the late Chief Justice AVay, is in the market
again. It was bought by Paul Joseph in
connection with his wild-cat “City Temple
scheme, now abandoned, and is remarkable
as being the one and only thing for which he
paid. The Melbourne firm which had an
amazingly lavish order for furnishing lias
hastily recovered such goods as it had
started to deliver, and whether the house
will realise the £6OOO it brought in Maich
is what Joseph’s creditors are most anxious
to find out.
CIRCHMSTANTI AL EVIDENCE.
LADY: “Oi’ve shit for ye to foind the shpalpeen that shtales the milk wry morrnin’
from the jug on the verandtlier.”
P OLICEMAN: “Can ye give me anny information that mad assist me in apprehendin'
The culprit? Ye cannot? Well, thin, cad ye ordintify yeer shtolen property if
Oi regain possession thereof?"
Flocks of bird-optimists sang of the
glory of living in Trone Wood, I ranee.
They had seen the sweating Germans pass
by with dust-grimed faces at the end of 1914
and hadn’t been blown out of their nests,
and the 1915 eggs had been hatched out
without disturbance. “Why, war’s a bless-
ing!” they chirped amongst the leaves of
1910. “Look at the crumbs these soldiers
scatter —we never had such a time befoie .
Then, after 20 months’ preparation, the
British offensive began, and the artillery
stripped and blasted Trone Wood till it
was a red morass littered with leafless poles
and dead men. It’s been a poor world tor
optimists this last two years.
* *
* *
“Jack’s” observations: —
Aviators are the bravest men in the world,
doff my hat to them all. But I think the British
a no-els are the most daring. Day after day they
soar into the clouds above the enemy lines, all the
time being shelled like fury. Some of them adopt
that cheery English haw-haw mannali, vou-know, and
that Sunny-Jim eyeglass on a piece of black ri > on.
But they are the lads and, as I say, 1 doff my lid
to them. . , ,
I saw a ’plane come hurtling through the clou s.
Suddenly she turned over and over from a great
height. Down she same at an awful speed. I
felt myself praying that she would right herself, bul ,
no' she fell into a paddock with a sickening crash
When I reached the spot she was just a blackened
mass of rubbish. A couple of Frenchmen had man-
aged to drag the mangled remains of the pilot and
observer clear. My mate had thrown his coat
over one of the bodies, when someone called out.
“Look, look! Here comes another ’plane. ’ Sure
enough, there was a ’plane making towards us.
She circled round a couple of times and finally
landed gently a few yards away from the wreev.
Two men scrambled out and came running towards us,
calling out, “Are they killed?” I said, “Yes sir,
they are both dead.” The inquiring pilot did not
look more than 20. Just a boy. He said What
rotten luckl” turned round, ran back, climbed into
his wings and soared. I don’t know where he
went. I suppose to try his luck once more with
the Hun. „ ,
Gentlemen of the R.F.C., I salute you once moie.
“Gosh” : A teacher at the school attached
to the Vic. Deaf and Dumb institution was
explaining the meaning of the word
“reason” the other day. “What did God
give to man more than to the lower ani-
mals?” she asked, just to see whethei- the
class had been attentive. And the bri ß htest
kid signalled “Woman” !
HELPING A LAME DOG.
He (a little nervous): “Do you think a girl
would have any respect for a fellow
who tried to hiss her?”
S HE: “Not if he failed to do it."
THE GENTLEMAN SHE WAS WITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lady-help has got one gag—
“ The gentleman I was with” ;
On ev’ry yarn it is a tag
“The gentleman I was with” ;
He stalks along at her genteel side,
She mentions him with a lady’s pride.
But his splendid name she’ll always hide—
“ The gentleman I was with.”
In him at least there was no flaw—
“ The gentleman I was with” ;
She drags him in to overawe —
“The gentleman I was with” ;
The bravest dream of her life, ho leans
Upon liis stick like a sketch of Kean’s ;
He sold no soap and he hoed no beans -
“The gentleman I was with.”
No doubt he was a decent bloke —
“The gentleman 1 was with” ;
Ready a friendly pipe to smoke —-
“The gentleman I was with” ;
But now he’s dressed in a fine disguise,
Because lie’s a sentimental prize ;
And so I listen and d —n ins eyes
“The gentleman I was with” !
VICTOKIA.
VINCENT T.


CASTOR OIL. SALTS '* DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means, all con-
stipation poison, Avaste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physio. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [3
h
GBEBBa
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
TARIFF :
Bed and Breakfast . 6/6 each person
Board and Residence . 11/ per day
Board and Residence 70/ per week
EXCELLENT CUISINE PERFECT SERVICE
EVERY MODERN COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE
CaupbellStreet
“fI»I.EDWAR Os
/\anaqer.
Pitt Street,
mniwi
"ilusketoon”: One of the biggest
"shouts’' I remember was paid for by Davy
Hall, the Cold Tea Minister for Justice
in Holman’s Government. lie was running
for Werriwa, and Niels Nielsen for Yass.
and they met at Grabben Cullen. At the
close of the speeches, Nielsen called to the
crowd: “Come on, boys. Davy is going to
shout 1” Hall couldn’t well get out of it,
but it hurt, because close on 200 men
rolled up at the bar. Nielsen told me
the yarn himself, before he went to serve
the N. S. Wales taxpayer from the peaceful
obscurity of U.S.A.
* * * *
The other day a Victorian Supreme
Court Judge and two legal lights solemnly
argued for hours over a matter of a dog
and a turkey. It appeared that an up-
country citizen, having “permitted his dog
to worry an animal, to wit, a turkey,’’ was
lined 205., against which he appealed on two
grounds—(l) that he didn’t “permit,” and
(2) that a turkey isn't an animal within
the meaning of the Police Offences Act.
After pondering the matter for a fortnight
his Honor decided that (1) a turkey is an
animal, (2) that appellant didn’t “permit’’
his dog to worry the thing. He therefore
<1 uashed the conviction, with £l2 12s. costs.
It is to be hoped the matter will not be
allowed to rest here. One Judge may decide
that a turkey is an animal, but there is
no certainty that a Full Court won’t put
it down as a vegetable, while the High
Court may conceivably decide it to be a
mineral. As for “permitting,” doubtless the
citizen did not specifically give his mongrel
permission to molest the turkey; but, then,
the ordinary individual, when he tosses his
dog a devilled kidney, doesn’t usually in-
form him he may eat it. No doubt he mai/
expect him to stand off and admire it as
a work of art or a now fashion, but the
L’INGENUE.
"It’s awfully nice of you to say that you
will always remember to-night.”
"Oh, Major, I couldn't forget it — to-morrow
is my birthday!”
assumption is that, having placed the clog
where he can come in contact with the
devilled kidney, he expects him to worry it
and ultimately masticate it. So with the
turkey. As an important matter, open to
much argument, the question should be
settled, of course with costs. Still, if it goes
no further, it is at least satisfactory to
know a turkey is an animal. There are
times when a layman would imagine it a
disease or a bad dream.
“Machete” from the other side: —
The participators in that famous “Soldiers’ Strike”
at Sydney are beginning: to arrive, and are receiving
a welcome which astonishes them. Sergeant-majahs
have developed an extraordinary habit of detailing
them for unpopular jobs, and the old hands are of a
rude, not to say aggressive, habit. One of the “strikers”
was boasting the other day of his performance. Where-
upon a hard-doing Billjim got up and smote him
most unceremoniously. “Wha’s tha’ for?” wailed
the smitten hero rising to his feet. “F’r insultin’ me
sister.” “Yer sister?” roared the other; I don't
know yer sister. An’ I don’t want to know ’er.”
“She’s an Australian woman,” says Billjim, senior;
“an’ you blanks have insulted th’ whole
boilin’, so take that.” And he took “that,” and
being satisfied, stayed with it on the ground.
WHEN SKIES ARE BLACK.
SOULFUL DAUGHTER: “Rapa, in time of trial , what do you suppose brings most comfort
to a man?”
PRACTICAL PAPA (a J.P.): "An acquittal, my dear, an acquittal.”
“L’etifi - ’: For years the coastal skipper
groped his way into Wollongong (N.S.W.)
harbor with the help of
a. stationary guiding
light at the entrance.
A while back, however,
one of him, making the
port sometime after tea,
picked up several lights,
and threw out curried
remarks to the cook for
building the beverage
so strong. When he
got ashore he apologised
to the cook, but deliv-
ered devilled remarks
about other people.
Since his last trip
someone had erected in
the background of the
“guide'’ several big arc
lamps, and from out-
side no one could tell
one from the other.
Later on, the Naviga-
tion Department sent
the Superintendent to
investigate. Seemingly
he found something, to
make a row about, since
the old glim is to be
doused and an acetylene
flash installed. Inci-
dentally, if any land-
lubber wants to know
what the mariner thinks
about the double-banked
light let him mention
the electric advertise-
ments which flick
around Sydney harbor
to a ferry skipper. But
for the skipper’s sake
let it be done in a lonely spot where the
police won’t hear.
* * * *
“Centurion’s” plain tale from the Desert:
The other day a Yeomanry regiment received an
unexpected call from a party of Turks. The camp had
lo be abandoned. Later, two cursing Light Horse
regiments rode into the camp after a 40-miles
trek. The Turks had by this time gone home,
leaving the place mueh as they had found it. For
three days, having no supplies of their own, the
hungry Australians lived on the rations found on the
spot. Then the Yeomanry 0.0. came back. He was
exceedingly distressed to find kawlonial soldiery had
wolfed the extras in the officers’ mess, and
made free with such of the carpets, beds, chairs, etc.,
as the Turks had not carried away. “They even took
the General’s things,” he wailed when reporting the
matter later. There was also a vast quantity of
letters, mostly from truly ladies and a collection of
photos, which—well, no matter. That ends the first
act. The second opens with a blasphemous Aus-
tralian brigadier perusing an official complaint of the
“looting,” along with a bill for £4OO. And it ends
with the same brigadier superintending the packing
of the letters, photos, and oddments for Divisional
Headquarters as a set-off to the £4OO bill. The
third act hasn’t opened yet, but we are all anxiously
waiting for it.
“Suez”: The true Anzacs who were ex-
cluded from the great memorial service in
the Abbey because they were under the regu-
lation height for stage heroes wouldn’t have
fared any better if they had been at Alex-
andria when the Kitchener Memorial Ser-
vice was being held. Some nursing sisters
who had neglected to provide them-
selves with tickets or coronets turned up at
the church an hour before the show started
and found waiting outside in the sun a dis-
consolate group of 12 wounded soldiers who,
like themselves, had been spurned from the
sacred doors. But officialdom did its lunatic
best. When all the seats had been packed
tight (mostly by ticketed, sightseers) it let
in the weary and wounded people who had
merely been. taking part in the war and
allowed them to stand on their own devoted
legs while the memory of their dead chief was
being honored.
■af
The ability to keep a level head and do
the wise thing at the right moment stood a
>St. Kilda ( Vic.) man in good stead recently.
Returning home he found his wife, a licensed
publican, had just returned from the races,
whither she had gone in a strange motor,
with the owner alongside. Him he ordered
off the premises and then had a heart-to-
heart talk with the lady. Later on he called
a servant and said his wife was choking;
but the servant declined to be interested
and stayed where he was —in bed. A second
appeal moved him to take notice, and he
found the wife choked, with a motor veil
wound round her gullet. The husband sent
for the police and told all he knew, and was
duly arrested for murder. But the post
mortem showed death by slow strangulation
without marks of violence, and other evi-
dence hinted at previous threats of suicide.
It was a close call, though. The least pre-
varication or any attempt to conceal or
twist the facts would have brought that
husband within sight of the gallows.
“Uncle Jim” on a Maoriland superstition:
Apropos the recent voyage of the Enterprise, I see
The Bulletin has thrown a bucketful of doubt on
the story that the Daphne recovered the General
Grant’s cargo of early-Victorian gold from the
ancient wreck on the Auckland Islands. How the
Daphne could have done the salving I don’t know,
for here’s her story. I was in Invercargill at the
time of her arrival on the outward voyage.
She was reported at the time to have been bought
by a Melbourne syndicate, and had called in at Inver-
cargill to refit prior to continuing her voyage south
to the Aucklands. She was a week or two in port,
and before sailing the captain shipped a young chap
named Robert Boyd as an ordinary seaman. Boyd
was about 20, and a native of Southland. The
Daphne sailed, and had been away a few months
when one morning she blew back to the Heads and
the pilot and his crew brought her in over the bar.
Only one man, Boyd, was found on board, and he
had a strange tale to tell. It appears that after
reaching the Aucklands the crew began to explore
the coast of the island for the place where the
General Grant was supposed to have been wrecked.
Some weeks were thus occupied in combing the
island, but no clue was found. It was then decided
to search the coastline round the whole of the island,
and two boats were prepared and provisioned for a
cruise. Boyd was the only one left on board the
vessel. AVeek after week went by and neither of the
boats returned, and it was not until after the sixtli
or seventh week had passed that Boyd decided to
slip the vessel’s anchor and endeavor to reach the
MX. mainland. The first favorable wind came up
soon after he had made up his mind to go, and after
great trouble he slipped the ship’s cable and stood
out to sea. Favored with a steady wind, the brigan-
tine sighted Stewart’s Island some days after, and
then Boyd steered for Invercargill Heads. The
Southland Government immediately sent its steamer,
the Southland, Captain Greig, down to the Auck-
lands. The vessel was away several weeks' and
thoroughly explored the island, but not a trace of
the crew or boats was discovered. I can’t account
for the Enterprise people’s yarn, but I can vouch
for mine.
“Bill Dad”: Justice a’Beckett (Vic.) in
the Dr. It. L. Atkinson will case
The testator had reached what might be called
the dotage stage, in which the wish to please his
wife was paramount.
Now you know what to do to assert your
mental grip. Make the old girl hop !
**• * *
In Melbourne it has been suggested in
connection with the controversy on the ques-
tion of the high cost of drinking that whisky
be (id. per glass if the barmaid helps you and
Bd. if you help yourself. The Melbourne
thirsty person’s manner of pouring out a
whisky under the shelter of the left hand is
a standing confirmation of the proverb—-
“Heaven helps those who help themselves.”
* * * *
“Try Fluke”: The most important and
ruiUts-dutied John Hop I know of is the
gent, on the Chatham Islands. There is only
one of him, and lie plays second harp only to
one other, the stipendiary magistrate from
Maoriland. Constable Pooh Bah runs the
Customs, inspects the fisheries, propels the
post office, jingles the savings bank, registers
births, marriages and deaths, collects statis-
tics, keeps the rain gauge, etc., and in
between times does police duty from Wai-
tangi to Kaore-he-Kianga. Not long since
he performed a marriage ceremony like a
seasoned bishop, and it came as a glad break
in the day’s round. The young things were
Maoris, and a Maori wedding in the
Chathams is something to remember. The
bride arrived in a bullock-dray, and when the
officiating policeman shut his book all hands
wired into the wedding breakfast. The
little snack began at 2 pan. and lasted till
2 a.m. next day. There was dancing in the
slab mansion and dancing on the grass.’ and
every hour the M.C. rang a bell and yelled
“Another sitting,” and the guests got to it
again. There were jew’s-liarps going, and
accordeons and mouth-organs, and the police
sky-pilot himself did something hilarious on
a cornet. And at each sitting the guests
toasted the full and happy bride and bride-
groom, who stood up with the crowd every
time and drank their own healths in panni-
kins of good M.L. beer.
LAMENTATIONS, ETC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear heart, the shadows of your hair
Cloud over me, and once again
1 hear you say, “I do not care.”
Ah, sweet, that memory is pain!
With us the lone trees and the moon,
Manuka’s scent, the mopoke’s croon,
A wisp of lace, a vagrant curl—
I wonder who you were, old girl ?
x.s.w.
THE SNAKE.


THE KNELL.


2 . Next m ormnp hgh tenshis
be 11 afe w h oles
j. Orths wa<y home
rn^Mi ergs beo"s a
lightbreahfas tfram
I the c&b-stanol. J
2> Saves a
Cabfare
into town
A V
i A n<d is joined toy ofaz r^_
r- On th«. second day
0 wme o/d
domes inlhe Coal cellar*
"Y Tho Skirmish
■for a lunch
G. Meets a depuration.
erfa later or\ at the *
Treaisurij.
jl He didn't catch crmi
jj U>h to speak of; bur
f he has hopes of a
Sundays dinner*
9- .
Thursday mpht
(To small office
" X wont be *‘m
tomorrow”
This is why
I must" \
Have a smoke
12. . dffer heshac/ the V
Sundays dinner, he
has a ndfp. and dneanr%
•not asTreasurer he's a
gbf a stand at the
Town Hall.
TREASURER HIGGS PROPOSES A WEEK OF ECONOMY.


ĥ
Chaving
G)tICK
XL6V6RX
For an
Ideal Shave
ħ
h
ĥ
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
M
US'
• ‘Ct't/r'Vr
r^Ar'™
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&
whirry
MAKERS
s
Q
m
Mi
m
•ml
£V«
tm
mm*
mm
STOMACH MEDICINES ARE
DANGEROUS.
DOCTORS NOW ADVISE MAGNESIA.
Just how dangerous it is to indiscrimi-
nately dose the stomach with drugs and
medicines is often not realised until too late.
It seems so simple to swallow a dose of some
special mixture or to take tablets of some
so-called remedy or other after meals, and
the folly of this drugging is not apparent
until perhaps years afterwards. Regrets
are then unavailing ; it is in the early stages,
when indigestion, dyspepsia, heartburn, flatu-
lence, etc., indicates excessive acidity of the
stomach and fermentation of the food con-
tents, that precautions should be taken.
Drugs and medicines are unsuitable and
often dangerous—they have as a rule little
or no influence upon the harmful acid, and
that is why doctors are discarding them and
advising sufferers from digestive and stomach
trouble to get rid of the dangerous acid and
keep the food contents bland and sweet by
taking a little bisurated magnesia instead.
Bisurated magnesia is an approved antacid,
which can readily be obtained from the
chemist. It is practically tasteless, and half
a teaspoonful taken in a little warm or cold
water after meals will usually be found quite
sufficient to instantly neutralise excessive
acidity of the stomach and prevent all possi-
bility of the food fermenting.—Advt.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lyndhurst F. Giblin, who left the Speck
recently as a captain in the A.1.F., is
the most versatile politician Australia
has seen of recent years. A son of
one of the brainiest Judges the island has
produced, he did a brilliant mathematical
course at Cambridge, and from there went to
Canada to join a pal in a timber spec. The
business failed badly, and Giblin passed to
the Klondyke. But gold-chasing didn’t pan
out any better, and the Tasmanian had to
pick up a crust as a river-pilot on the Yukon.
Next he homed to the Speck and turned
cocky farmer on a selection near Hobart.
But the wanderlust again cropped up and
he blew off to the Solomon Islands. He got
away in one piece, returned to Tas., and
has since then been farmer, schoolteacher
"NORMAN LOGKYER, Interstate Commis-
sioner, busy lately trying to put the
military canteens on a proper footing.
and M.P. in the Sosh interest by turns.
When last general election came around he
declined to re-enter the House, expressing the
opinion that an able-bodied man was more
use just now at the Front. Of course
some people think he’s eccentric.
Charlie MacDowall, late member for Cool-
gardie, who died the other day, had the re-
putation of being the first man to wear a
tall hat in Coolgardie. An auctioneer from
Victoria, he took the wild and roaring city’s
breath by suddenly appearing in a frock
coat and belltopper at a time when a shirt
was an effeminate luxury and even trousers
not indispensable. His style of oratory was
a little pompous, and he used to address the
Legislative Assembly as if it were an auction
mart. Otherwise he was a good Australian,
a good Laborist, and an all-round good fel-
low.
Kitchener wasn’t an iceberg all the time.
When he first visited Maoriland, the rabbit-
skinned mayor of a southern town, accom-
panied by promi-
nent citizens, met
him on arrival.
The Mayor was
loaded with the
usual speech of
welcome, but at
ttte critical moment
stage-fright grip-
ped him and he
stood speechless.
After an embar-
rassing silence he
managed to mum-
ble, “Well, sir, I
must confess I
have entirely lost
my nerve.” “ That’s
all right, Mr.
Mayor!” responded
“ K. ” smilingly,
“It’s a splendid
thing to have a
nerve to lose.” The
kindly word
warmed the Mayor
so nicely that he
suddenly recovered
and worked off his
recitation after all.
TOM THROWER,
Chairman of Com-
mittees, N.S.W.
Assembly.
August birthdays: Judge Murray
(N.S.W.), 74 on Ist; Alfred Deakin, 60 on
3rd; Justice Isaacs (High Court), 61 on
6th; George Turner (ex-Federal Treasurer),
65, and Alec Poynton, M.H.R., 63, on Bth;
Col. Wallack, 59 on 9th; Geo. Riddoch,
S. Aus. squatter, 74 on 10th; Tennyson, ex-
Gov.-Gen., 64 on 11th ; Kintore, ex-S. Aus.
Gov., 64. and Chelmsford, ex-Gov. of Ma
State, 48, on 12th; Prof. Rennie (S.A.),
64 on 19th; R. W. Foster, M.H.R., 60 on
20th; Senator O’Keefe (Tas.), 52, ex-
Senator Simon Fraser (Vic.), 84, and
Bishop Pain (Gippsland), 75, on 21st;
Bigjohn Forrest, 69 on 22nd; G. T. Allen
(the man whose name is on the Common-
wealth Bank notes), 64 on 23rd; P. McM.
Glynn, K.C., 61, and Justice Heydon
(N.S.W.), 71, on 25th; C. Gavan Duffy
(Clerk of the House of Reps.), 61 on 27th;
and Andy Fisher, 54 on 29th.
That William Clifford, of Tassy, who
becomes a Baron through the death of his
only brother, Lord Clifford of Chudleigb, is
58. He had six sisters. One of them is the
Countess of Denbeigh. another the Condessa
de Torre Diaz, and two in the long ago became
nuns. The name of the family sea,t is Ug-
brooke Park, Devon, and to a station pro-
perty in Marlborough (M.L.), now owned
by Dunstan Vavasour, whose mother was
William Clifford’s aunt, this name of Ug-
brooke was given when young Bill in the
early ’SO’s went out to be a sheep farmer. But
he wasn’t much of a farmer —not nearly so
successful, for instance, as another member
of the great Clifford family, Charles, who
runs racehorses in Maoriland and once owned
Flaxbourne station and still has Stonyhurst.
Baron Bill married when he was quite young
a fine, handsome daughter of Maoriland at
Blenhiem. His heir is about 30.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
A product of the Blue Mountains, Charles Abraham
Wilson, died at Burwood (N.S.W.) a few days ago,
aged 76, and was buried in thf cemetery at Lawson.
In the mid-thirties of last century Jacob Josephson,
founder of a wealthy Sydney family, lived at Emu
Ford, on the Nepean River, and built an inn on the
river bank. All the Mountain traffic then passed Emu
Ford. In 1835 Josephson’s relative, C. A. Wilson,
kept the inn. Later on, as the Mountains were opened
up, the Wilsons settled at Lawson, having a license
for the Blue Mountain Inn. When the railway first
came Lawson was the only stop between Emu Plains
and Mount Victoria, and had a refreshment-room
looked after by Miss Wilson —known to everyone as
“the Blue Mountain Parrot.” The Wilsons owned the
land at Lawson on which the straggling town has
been built. With the demolition of the old inn C. A.
Wilson went further afield and opened an inn at
Wentworth Falls, which in early coaching days was
the Weatherboard. A son still holds the license.
“Daybreak”: The toast is Jimmy Rya“»
Itoyal Humane Society bronze medallist.
This nine-year-olcl Tasmanian boy earned his
decoration at Trowutta in the summer ot
1915, when a bush fire raced before a sudden
gale for his father’s new selection. Had
tried to get back, but the flames cut lnm
off, and Jimmy, his mother and his seven-
year-old sister, having been first driven by
the fire into the little home and then out ot
it, decided to make a dash for the creek
about 10 chains distant. The mother s
clothes were set on fire by the rain of sparks
on the way, and she fell never to rise again.
While the children waited and called, the
little girl’s frock caught: but Jimmy beat it
out with his bare hands, and at last flung
his sister down and shielded her with his
own body, thrashing out the fire in his own
clothes as best he could. They found him
hours afterwards, utterly exhausted and
cruelly burnt, but still holding out. Gentle-
men, Jimmy Ryan! May he live to com-
mand a regiment of Anzacs!
Cabled that a son of E. P. Field, one-
time of Sydney, has been killed in France.
E. P. Field, who is the son of an English
major-general, came to Australia as a
master at Sydney Grammar School, and
next was a judge’s associate in Brisbane.
Early in the ’eighties he came into promi-
nence by winning a libel action against W. C.
Windeyer, of Mount Rennie. The action
arose out of remarks in a report of Sydney
School of Arts, of which Windeyer was
president. Shortly afterwards Field went to
the Bar, and had several scraps with his old
enemy, being compelled on one occasion to
apologise on pain of committal for contempt.
While a barrister, he got religion in an
aggravated form, and used to preach in
Sydney streets during the lunch hour. In
a way, he was the Chidley of his time. In
1595 he went to the Cold Country, where he
is still living, and became secretary of an
“Evangelical Alliance” to propagate his
brand of religion. Always litigious, he was
plaintiff in a number of cases, even suing
his own Alliance, and eventually the English
Courts had to declare him a thistle or some-
thing under the Vexatious Litigants Act.
J. A. Pattinson, who takes cricketing
parson Stacy Waddy’s place as headmaster
of The King’s School, Parramatta.
(N.S.W.), was associated with two Aus-
tralian archgaiters while they were still
very niinor clerics in England. When Arch-
bishop Clarke came to Melbourne in i 902,
Pattinson succeeded him in an honorary
billet connected with Anglican school coun-
cils in England; and Archbishop Wright, of
Sydney, was rector of an adjoining parish
in Manchester. Pattinson came to Bris-
bane in 1910 as Canon of the local Cathe-
dral, and last year was temporarily head
of the Anglican college at Sydney Univer-
sity.
When the war broke out, Keith Ramsay,
son of David, of the Commonwealth Public
Service Commissioner’s office, was on a sail-
ing vessel in a South American port. He
completed the voyage, and then hurried to
the nearest place where khaki was being
issued. After a strenuous training he was
given a commission in the Seventh King’s
Rifles, and, later, was killed in France while
making a gallant attempt to bring in
a wounded man. Only 25 when he finished
up, he had found time between jobs as an
A.B. on a windjammer—now sealing, then
to Buenos Aires—to pass for his mate’s
ticket. You can’t keep Australians of his
type from a man’s job.
During the past year or two there have
JOHN HENRY
CLEARY, recently
elected to Tas.
Assembly.
been frequent changes
in the Melbourne City
Council, with no notice-
able quickening of the
body’s sluggish pulse.
The latest to notify his
intention of retiring
from inactive public
life is Godwin Crespin,
of Kew, wealthy im-
porter of groceries and
jute. The old man has
never been a star; but
he has his own ideas of
faithful service, and
his attendances at the
Town Hall, for what
they were worth, cover
a long period.
Died at Hobart, aged 87, Tt. .T. Lucas, one
of the Speck’s oldest solicitors and politi-
cians. He was for many years a member of
the Executive Council, and sat in the Assem-
bly for Kingborough. In 3887 he was Attor-
ney-General ; but the Government fell and
Lucas’s reign only lasted five or six days.
The death at Adelaide of YV illiam Tamsh
recalls the voyage, many years ago, ot the
Prince Regent, on which Tainsh was a
sailor, from London to Adelaide. Drinking
water ran out, and for the last three weeks
passengers and crew had to absorb bottled
stout, which formed part of the cargo. Six
of the crew died of scurvy, and 13 others
were half over the border line when the
alcoholic Prince reached port and asked for
something without a head on it. The fight-
ing teetotallers should record the case for
campaigning uses.
Mrs. Wallach, of Kooyong (Vic.), the flower
whom Franz plucked out of the musical-
comedy garden a few years ago, is tired of
hearing echoes of the past resounding
through the shrouded drawing-room of the
family castle and is making a move. There
was a sale the other day in the absence ot
the disaffected Wallach, who is spending his
warlidays at Langwarrin, and the tribe of
Israel and the clan of Mac Dealer assembled
in large numbers around the remains—a
strangely-mixed collection of antiques, dread-
ful-pasts, wedding and other presents, futur-
ist knick-knacks and fine china. It may be
taken as an indication that the interned
Wallach has at last given up all hope of a
glorious resurrection in a German Australia.
HIS MISTAKE.
BLOGGS (to marooned Ansae in London):
“Van you direct vie to the Bank of
England, my man ?”
BILLJIM (suspiciously): "Wot’s the popula-
tion of this Are place?"
BLOGGS: "Oh, about seven million."
BILLJIM: “Then why the ’ell pick on me ?”
Apart from the bit he had in N. S. Wales,
old David Mitchell, whom wild rumor had
alleged to be a millionaire, was not quite a
third of a millionaire when he died. If
Rumor were not naturally unreasonable it
would never have accused Melba’s hard-
headed dad of being three times more
wealthy than he was, Dave Mitchell was
firstly " a builder and contractor, and he
made much money in that useful line of
business. But he didn’t concentrate all his
thoughts on amassing money by the one
means. Anyone could get him interested
almost up to the day of his death in a
speculation which promised to develop the
resources of the country. The few million-
aires in Australia’s past and present have,
been useless favorites of fortune as com-
pared with Dave Mitchell, who did things.
Being taken prisoner at Ivut-el-Amara is
not the only bit of hard luck which has
struck poor old General Townsliend. He
was heir to the title and estates of his
cousin the Marquis up to May 12, 1916.
Then a brand-new son must come in to
upset the pot.
G. P. Donnelly, one of the best-known
wool kings in Hawkes Bay (M.L.), is still
going strong, at the age of 70 or thereabouts.
Apart from his penchant for the society of
Governors, he has always been an aggres-
sive figure in politics and elsewhere. In the
early ’sixties he was a mere liorsedealer
in Auckland, but when, in 1877, he married
the daughter of the Maori chief Ivarauvia
he acquired a great acreage which he was
not slow in turning to account. The other
day the old man was sued by a neighboring
runholder for damage resulting from a grass
burn. He was indisposed, but, so that
nobody should be inconvenienced, he sent a
message to the Napier Courthouse offering a
fleet of motor-cars to transport magistrates,
police, court officers, witnesses, counsel and
reporters to his place at Otatara, where the
dispute could be heard.
MUMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Queen Willielmina of Holland has the mumps, and
is remaining in seclusion. —-Court news.
Mumps!
Her Majesty has got the mumps.
She sits in sad seclusion.
The whole Dutch Court is in the dumps.
Secure from all intrusion
The fair queen in her royal dwelling
Must nurse the unromantic swelling.
Mumps!
Mumps!
How one’s romantic feeling slumps
Perceiving so domestic
A trouble as plebeian mumps
On one of rank majestic!
The regal air must know curtailment,
Associated with this ailment —
Mumps 1
Mumps!
Queen Wilhelmina has the mumps—
Oh, had some artist snapped her!
To cure th’ inflammatory lumps
In flannel they have wrapped her.
She quite a horrid little fright is
"With aggravated parotitis.
Mumps!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


c
V
//-
7
4*
Pr-
-1
,
i
>;
/£
i/i
V^
■
a
I
1
o
X
<3
IV
v
4
K 7
rr'vt'«
lS
U
TOBACCO
Is Always
Distinctive Smoke
To-day, To-morrow™—and Everywhere !
.Natural thing', is'nt it, for men to call it
Australia’s National Smoke
CUT(lnTins) FLAKE or MiXTURE
Also in Pluc£ Form.
h
PIPES
400
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
&
m
E ver/ p ‘P e Guar4 "^ (J


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS —Deep and Shallow
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattie Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue. 1]
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKKLL, Secretary.
Producers of: —
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of: —
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (Hiah grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
BU CYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Agents—WILLIAM ADAMS <£b COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth.
Sole
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron,, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFICE —Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne^^^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK :
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Oif. Depositors. Reserves.
June, 1908.. £43,482 £23,482 £15,000 £69,000
Dec 1908.. 48,737 18,737 20,000 £4,000
June’ 1909 . 44,158 19,158 20,000 # 79.000
Dec ’ 1909 44,432 19.432 20,000 84,000
June, 1910. . 4 5 ’,626 20,626 20 000 89.000
Dec 1910 46,174 21.174 20,000 94,000
June 1911 461275' 10,275 30.000 100.000
Dec.,’ 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 36.159 lIS- 999
Dec., 1912.. 48,179 36,179 ISM 99
June, 1913.. 48,214 3(6,214 I^,ooo
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 3/,91u I^,ooo
June, 1914.. 50,090 38.090 {so’npn
Dec., 1914.. 50,104 - 38,104 1/8,000
June, 1915.. 51,746 - 39 '46 190 000
Dec., 1915.. 50,536 - 40,536 200,000
June. 1916.. 51,398 39,398 212,000
At best the figures are simply a sort ot hint
to the people interested that things are going
well or otherwise. For years past there has
been a steady increase of profits. We re
doing all right,” general-manager Ralston has
said in effect—“and I think we’re a shade
better off than we were six months ago.
This half-year he says: “Well, taking one
thing with another, I don t think the Q-N.
is making quite as much as it did 12 months
ago.” It it were the Q.N. would have had a
phenomenally good year; for it would take a
lot of progress to counterbalance the addi-
tional taxation which the terrific conflict or
the past 12 months has made necessary. And
then there is the probable effect of the Com-
mon wealth Bank on this and all other banks
business and profit. The effect may be larger
on their profit than on their business, every-
thing has conspired to help the Common-
wealth Bank; and it hasn’t missed many
chances. So we have had good old I nvate
Enterprisers like the S. M. Herald pouring
out leading articles on this conspicuous bit
of Socialism and declaring that it has done
so well for Australia that it deserves, etc.
On the other hand, a yen' large part of
Queensland is quite convinced that the Q-A.
deserves very well of the Northern State;
and if Queensland does more for itself after
the war, as seems likely, the Q.N. will cer-
tainly get its share of tne improvement.
Things are not going to flourish at once
when peace arrives, except perhaps during
a very brief period of mafficking: but tne
Avar will certainly help us to get a decent
tariff, and these, “repatriation” funds may
help us to develop the country a bit more
rapidly. The possibilities of Queensland,
thus assisted, are tremendous; and if the
future of the Q.N. isn’t bright, then our out-
look altogether must be very blue.
The bank, it will be noted, still pays no
dividend, and can pay none till it has wiped
off an old debt to the depositors who rushed
the bank in the ’SO’s. When the smash came
private creditors got paper for los. m the
£ • the other ss. was to be paid out of profit,
and till it was paid there was to be no divi-
dend to shareholders. The management has
been in no hurry to pay out this money. _ It
could have been done, of course, by claiming
as profit every possible penny and distribut-
ing it. But general-manager Ralston had
the experience of Drury to warn him, and
he was strong enough to sit down patiently
and remake the bank regardless of the
natural thirst of shareholders for dividends.
On the whole, they have been a very patient
lot, too; and, unless something very _ serious
happens, they look as though they might get
their reward in the early ’2o’s. This shows
the recent progress in the matter of repay-
ments :—• _ .
Current Repaid Balance
11 years Profits to in
to Appropriated Depositors. Hand.
Dec., 1908. .£lBB,OOO 3s. in £= £155,818 £32,182
June, 1909.. 20.000 9d. in £= 38,657 13,525
Dec., 1909.. 20,000 33,525
June, 1910.. 20,000 03,525
Dec., 1910.. 20.000 9d. in £= 38,642 34,883
June, 1911.. 30,000 64,883
Dec , 1911.. 30,000 Is. in £ = 51,527 43,356
June, 1912.. 36,159 6d. in £= 25.763 53,752
Dec. 1912.. 36,179 6d. in £= 25,762 64,169
June, 1913.. 36,214 9d. in £= 38.643 61,740
Nov., 1913.. Special Is. in £ = 50,900
Dec., 1913.. 37,915 9d. in £ = 38.162 61,493
June, 1914.. 38.090 9d. in £= 38.652 60.931
Dec 1914.. 38,104 9d. in £= 38,642 60,393
June, 1915.. 39,746 9d. in £ = 38,500 61,639
Dec 1915.. 40,536 9d. in £= 38,786 63,389
June, 1916.. 39,398 9d. in £ = 38,642 64,145
£670,341 12/9 in £= £657,096 £64,145
So 14s. in the £ has either been paid or is in
hand ; and at 9d. per half-year it will take
four years to throw the last bone of the
skeleton out of the window. It is highly
probable that it could be done before m
fact, it may be done before. But taking all
things into account, it isn’t likely that the
general manager will rush the business.
When dividends are resumed they will
be worth having. The paid capital is only
£480,000, so the disclosed profit of £50.01 HJ
per half-year is over 20 p.c. p.a. Liabilities
include £3,091,669 of interminable inscribed
stock ; and as that carries only 3| p.c., there
should be fine profit in it during this period
of high interest; in fact, it seems likely that
in the years to come the Australian rate ot
interest generally will be up nearer the
XJ.S.A. level of 6 p.c. for deposits. Besides
this money the bank has £7,228,739 of the
public’s money, and holds £5,931,230 liquid
—a more than safe proportion.
The Commercial Bank of Australia :
Dividends
Profits on
(less Loss Pref. Writ- Added
on Assets Shares. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). (3 p.c.) Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’O9. .£56,302 £31,760 £25,000 £7,473
June, ’l'L. 55,002 31.7G0 25,0001 •
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident! 3,,15
Dec. To"' 59,557 31,760 25,000 £2,797 6,512
June, ’ll.. 58,804 31.7G0 30,000 3,u06
Dec ’ll.. 61,032 31,760 28,000 1,322 4,8,8
June, ’12.. 65,109 31,760 30,000 1
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident! 1,349 6,-2,
Dec ’12."| 1 66,892 31,760 35,000 132 6,359
June, ’13.. 68,076 31,760 35,000 1,316 <,6,0
Dec., ’13.. 66,775 31,760 35,000 lo <,090
June, ’14.. 64,533 42,347 20,000 2,186 9,876
Dec., ’14.. 65,121 42,347 25,000 7,650
Ttino ’i 44 273 42,347 1,926 9,570
Dec’ *l5!. 64,157 42,347 20,000 1,810 11,386
.Tune, TO.. 68,369 42,347 25,000 1
£3OOO voted to Officers’ Provident ! 9,40»
Fund
But, to be quite frank about it, that s not
true. After the big smash the bank decided
to be a sort of ostrich and pretend that it
couldn’t see the worst of its bad debts. It
passed these over to an Assets Trust t >.
at face value. But it was itself actually
the Trust Co., because it guaranteed that
concern’s liabilities; and as the assets were
realised it reduced the awful hiatus between
the Trust’s assets and its debts by appro-
priations of profit. That is mostly where
the amounts shown as written off have
gone : the balance has been used to reduce
the book value of bank premises. iSow the
old assets have been almost got rid of; there
is Only £13,386 worth left in the balance-
sheet. 'Probably they may fetch a trifle more:
for general-manager Heron may have a con-
tingency fund somewhere. Even so, how-
ever, and in spite of all the 20 thousands
that have been voted out of current profits
to reinstate lost capital, there is still,
ing to the balance-sheet, about £72b,000 ot
capital unrepresented by assets. Hence
there are not any real reserves at all.
The following shows the position more
truthfully
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend, ten Reduce
Profit. 3 p.c. O.i. Leficit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec. 1909.. 66,711 31,760 5000 29,951 1,028,899
June, 1910.. 62,826 31,760 5000 1 24 066 1.004,833
Provident Fund .. 2000 > „„ „. r
Dec 1910.. 66,035 31,760 5000 29,2/5 9/5,558
June 1911 63,239 31,760 5000 26,479 949,0/9
Dec 1911- . 6L991 31.760 5000 25,231 923,848
June, 1912.. 65.879 31,760 5000 j 27119 896,729
n ioio Pr ° V B7 m OM 81 760 6000 30.828 866,401
B; Si SI SSI 15:111 SSI
fS «ltl = ’1:1 Iff
ST mS::M,wS«SO»O 18i813 ,84,27/
June, 1916.. 68,369 42 347 s°°° } 18,022 716,252
So in seven years the bank, besides writing
down its premises account, has
lost capital to the extent of £342,0,18, and,
as mentioned above, there is, according t
the accounts, £716,252 still missing. That
would be enough to keep the bank busy foi
another 11 years or so provided it could
make the same profits as it has been making
since 1909. But here another consideration
comes in. For a few years before the war
the holders of the ordinary shares—who are
supposed to represent the old, original pro-
prietors of the bank —had been getting
hungry. They had had nothing since the
smash. For some years they hadn t com-
plained about that—they felt too grateful
for merely being alive. Imally, however,
the directors decided that it wasn t a tan
thing to ask them to wait until all the capi-
tal had been made good.. But they couldn t
decently pay the ordinaries a dividend until
the prefs. (who had received their shares
in exchange for old deposits) had got the
full 4 p.c. to which they are entitled as a
maximum; so 4 p.c. was paid on prefs. _ as
from Jan. 1, 1914. That calls for £21,000
more per annum, which of course is £21,000
less available now towards reinstating
capital. On the other hand, every little
helps; and even if the accumulated profit is
earning only 5 p.c. the bank should be mak-
ing £17,000 a year more now than it was
seven years ago. Certainly the table
doesn’t show that it is making that much
more. Still a bank doesn’t always tell all
the truth. If it actually isn’t making that
much more, then it is a fair thing for the
Board to ask itself and its g.m. why.
Whether it was a decent thing for the
bank’s management of that tiine to make
the bargain it did with the depositors needn t
be discussed now; certainly, as things have
turned out, it was an excellent arrangement
for the old shareholders. As a result the
bank has £2,117,350 of pref. capital, cumu-
lative at the outset only as to 2 p.c. and
thereafter as to 3 p.c., and never entitled
under any circumstances to more than 4
p.c. Moreover, the £lO pref. share has no
larger say in the control than the 10s. ordi-
nary share. On the strength of this pref.
capital the bank can reasonably take on
deposit and use for ordinary banking pur-
poses £10,000,000. If the bank put the capital
into public securities it could earn much
more interest than it has to pay; and the
profit on the public’s money deposited on
the strength of the pref. capital would all
be available for the ordinaries. For the
present, of course, the problem isn t so easy,
because more than half a million of the
pref. capital isn’t represented by anything
at all. But with that restored the Com-
mercial of Australia will be an easy propo-
sition to handle, and the ordinaries will
have a very soft thing on. Provided nobody
interferes. " But something will certainly
have to be done to disguise the corpulence
0 r their dividends. For it will take less than
£20,000 a year to pay them 20 p.c.; and
even 20 p.c. is dangerous these times.
The position in the 12 months hasu t
changed very much :
June, 1915. June, 1916.
Notts •• •• £39,124 £52,383 Inc. £13,259
Bills, etc. •• 503,080 783,820 Inc. 250,740
Free deposits . . 3,835,900 3,953,888 Inc. 117,982
Denosits at interest 3,2»6,063 3,180,976 Dec. 7 ®,087
Old debts.. .. 36,301 32,666 Dec. 3,63»
r j mi id assets . 3,624,431 3,270,116 Dec. 354,315
Old bank assets.. 16,998 13,366 s**/ f’nu>
Premises.. .. 462,240 455,230 Dec. 7,010
Evidently the C. B. of A. isn’t a pessimist,
for it has added £738,050 to its advances
during the year. There is no reason why
the business shouldn’t be thoroughly good
better, in fact, than that taken three or tour
years ago when values were high and there
was no war roaring into every officer's ear
to be extra-careful. Possibly a good deal
of the money represents short loans —especi-
ally advances on farm products. Otherwise
one would be disposed to say that, on the
figures, the'bank isn’t in a position to take
much more business, its liquid assets being
no greater than they ought to be.
* * * *
Taylor Bros. Co-opf.rative, Ltd., jam
manufacturers, etc. (The deficit of £3OOO
with which the co. beg.an represents the
amount paid for goodwill) : —•
Deficit.
To Re- £3OOO
Mav Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves
1913. .£6070 10 p.c. = £3OOO £3070 (0
Premiums on new shares . . 396 mo
1914.. 3208 8-1 p.c. = 3188 20 486
Exes. pref. share issue, £470 • • ‘°
_ Pref.
(8 p.c.) Ordinary.
1915.. 3644 £339 8 p.c. = 3200 100 1 ? 1
1916.. 4675 970 8 p.c. = 3200 000 6-6
On the figures this lias been no fat thing so
far; though the dividend has been whittled
dov r n from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c., there has been
very little surplus profit to lay by. f ilings
thus far haven’t come up to early expecta-
tions. Originally this was the concern in
which J. P. Wright, of tlie old N.S.W. Arbi-
tration Court, was the principal. On his
death, it appears, the family hung on to the
N. S. Wales business, which is run by Taylor
Bros., Ltd., and promoted this co. —Taylor
Bros. Co-operative, Ltd. —to take over the
business outside N. S. Wales. It doesn t look
as though there was much to sell; and, any-
way, £3OOO was all that was asked for the
goodwill. But apparently though the co. s
business was small it was very lucrative; so
in the first year there was a net profit of
£6070, although the capital was then well
under £30.000, *ind although the new and
enlarged plant, etc., had only recently been
completed. Certainly some of the seasons
since then have been unfavorable to the jam-
boiler. Supplies have been irregular and
prices high. But, giving all that in, it looks
as if the co. had to fight for its larger
market; and that means heavy expense.
This, the unfavorable seasons and the fact
that the co. has had a good deal of money
out most of the time in partly-completed ex-
tensions and additions would account for the
comparatively small profit. It was little
more than nominally an old-established busi-
ness that the co. took over; and 8 p.c. is a
very good yield indeed in those circum-
stances. The initial 10 p.c. shouldn’t have
been paid, of course. No dividend should so
far have been beyond 7 p.c.
Present capital is £52,822, of which
£40,000 is ordinary and the bnlance 8 p.c.
cumulative pref. There is £7170 of this
preference capital unallotted; and as th e '
is certainly under-capitalised authority < *
been obtained to issue the balance.
then the co. will have to lean heayi ly P
the bank during part of each year. On May
it owed £41,663 on one account and anothii ,
and no doubt earlier in the year it owed sti
more. The co. has a factory m Hobart as
well as the Melbourne mill, and there is a
Brisbane business. The premises and pla
represent £32,939, stock £43,442 book debts
£15,108, and the balance is mostly shares in
other cos. and sundries.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q-) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
\liv 1908 £911,723 £648,360 £263,363
S; 1909. . *901,838 673,622 228,216
May, 1910.. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910.. 484,755 408.450 76,30,.
Mav 1911 . 468,538 350,86/ 117,6/1
Nov.’, 1911:: 452:330 381,730 70,600
May, 1912.. 537,378 349,98 a 187,39,.
Nov., 1912.. 640,.12 387,58 u 253,12.
May, 1913.. 499,31/ 301,314 148,003
Nov., 1913.. 496,936 3*>1,9/3 144,963
Mav 1914.. 459,606 328,21. 131,389
Nov.’, 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63,836
Mav, 1915.. 503,018 400,21 a 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647 .■O3B 478,395 168,643
May, 1916.. 617,754 499,616 118, lob
The results continue to be very disappoint-
ing. especially when the boom price of
copper is taken into account. At the end
of May, 1915, 2070 tons on hand were
valued at the usual £55 per ton. That lot
brought £B9 10s. 2d. per ton. The whole of
the last six months’ production was sold at
an average of £9l 12s. 3d.; but 18/•) tons
unshipped is valued, pending realisation, at
£55. Thus the half-year has had the benefit
not only of the high price for the current
production, but also of the surplus realised
on 195 tons —the difference between the
stocks at the beginning and at the end of
the half-year; and that means over £6ooo.
Also £8535 came from investments, as
against under £3OOO in the earlier half.
On the other hand the past half-year has
been charged with about £15,000 more
income tax than the previous half, the total
charge under this heading for the term
being £24.74(3. The £118,138 profit shown
for the half-year is net, the amount written
off against depreciation being £21,951, and
that is also slightly in excess of the amount
struck off for the previous half. When all
allowances are made the difference between
the net profit in the two half-years, as
shown in the table, is thus probably exag-
gerated a little ; but that there was actually
a. very serious difference is shown by the
fact that on working account alone the
balance for the first half was £225,520 and
for the second half only £177,136.
Several factors were responsible; but
larger outgoings were the chief. Working
costs per ton of Mt. Morgan ore were 475.
lOfd. as against 425. 51d. in the previous
period and 40s. 3fd. in the corresponding
period of the previous year. This was due
to (1) advances in wages, freights and
stores; (2) more broken time and conse-
quent reduction in ore treated; and (3)
a lower grade of ore. (1) Dearer wages,
freights and stores, the directors _ say,
account for over £60,000; but that is for
the whole year. (2) The working days
numbered only 144 as against 155 in the
previous term, while the average output of
ore was 1218 tons per working day as
against 3290. (3) The grade of ore
treated was 0.35p.c. lower in copper and
2.osdwt. less in gold than in the previous
term. Yet there does not appear to be
much hope of improving the grade if
average-value ore is mined. “At the pre-
sent time,” the directors say, “the total
reserves of smelting and concentrating ore
are 4,333,600 tons, averaging 2.6 p.c. copper
and 6.lSdwt. gold.” The Mt: Morgan ore
smelted during the half-year was 112,389
tons, with 22,881 tons concentrates; and
the 22,071 tons concentrates produced dur-
ing the period were the product of 72,074
tons ore. Hence approximately 185,000
tons of Mt. Morgan ore were handled, and
the recovery was 3675.36 tons copper and
57,1080 z. gold; so the average extraction
was 1.99 p.c. copper and 6.lBdwt. gold. The
copper may thus be increased a trifle ; but
the gold extraction is likely to fall away.
Including that won from Many Peaks
flux and purchased ore the copper yield for
the year was 8307 tons, and the total expen-
diture, including depreciation (which is
mostly a set-off against necessary renewals,
etc.), was £978,011. That means £ll7 15s.
a ton nearly—a very heavy price to pay,
and of course quite impossible if every ton
of copper didn’t get the help of nearly 15oz.
of gold. The net profit for the year
(£286,781) was equal to £34 10s. 6d. per
ton of copper; and that with a copper
market averaging £B7 per ton! It is quite
-obvious that Mt. Morgan is liable to get
into Queer-street if it can’t do something
much better than this. Even if the market
stood up to £67 per ton, the 112,000 tons of
copper in the mine, provided it could all be
extracted, would only show £1.625.000
Certainly on. top of that there are liqird


The British Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Tramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
rstinohousp
Manchester
Hoad Office for Australia
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
ħ
Ve/re Bgrnto
Fire, Maiine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital ..
Income (Cross) 1915
£250,000
194,235
95,767
146,027
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
AGENTS WANTED.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ° °
Gen. Man. : Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
assets £436,000 in excess of liabilities, mak-
ing a total of just over £2,000,000, equal to
£2 per share. But £67 is. a very big price
to assume for copper. Present price of
shares is about 325. 6d. Just before the
war they were 735. There were optimists
in other places besides London just before
the war.
* * * *
South Australian Fruitgrowers’ Co-
operative Society, Ltd. (Adelaide), which
began with a deficit of £sb2, represented by
preliminary exes.:—
Bonus De-
Profit. Dividends, on trade, ficit.
Dec., 1911.. _—. fi592
June, 1912.. £l3O 5 p.c. =£los 067
Loss.
Nov., 1912.. 195 5 „ „ 183 945
Profits.
May, 1913.. 622 5 ~ ~ 234 557
Nov., 1913.. 626 5 ~ „ 286 £92 309
May, 1914.. 7 5 „ „ 318 620
Nov., 1914.. 872 5 „ „ 333 105 2?6
May, 1915.. 1584 71 „ „ 501 374^^463^’
Nov., 1915.. 1685 71 ~ ~ 532 269 1347
May, 1916.. 1082 7J „ „ 592 596 1241
Some of the figures in the last line are only
estimates, and six months hence will no
doubt have to be adjusted. The basis, like
that of other S.A. co-operative concerns, is
rotten, the shareholder being entitled to
promptly withdraw his capital, though it is
sunk in plant, property or stock. And as
time goes on more and more of it will have
to go into premises and plant for making
jams, preserves, etc. Even now substantial
additions are in progress, and more are ahead.
Jhe committee “has recently had to engage
storage space from other establishments,
entailing heavy cartage and rental. In the
interests of economy and efficiency it is
hoped,” the committee adds, “that sufficient
capital will be subscribed in the near future
to enable us to proceed with a building
scheme which will ensure sufficient space for
some years to come.” Present so-called capi-
tal is £18,017, and the co. has debts of one
sort and another totalling £9324. Assets
°f stock £16,609, plant and premises
£8364, book debts £3951 and a few odds and
ends. There, are no less than 956 share-
holders —practically all growers and grocers,
the idea being to cut out as far as possible
the middleman who takes a bite out of both
producer and consumer. The scheme is excel-
lent ; and nothing in the world but disloyalty
or. bad management can stop the co. from
being a great and growing success.
* * * *
Westralia’s financial returns for June
showed a surplus of £214,718 and reduced
pcaddan’s accumulated deficit to £1,361,031.
revenue was £5,356,760, or
£w1b,035 more than for the previous 12
months, while the expenditure (£5,705,049)
was down £1493. The year’s debit balance
amounted to £348,289. On paper some of
Government’s trading concerns show a
profit and some don’t. Steamship takings are
£158,167 and expenditure as
£139,592, sawmills £236,818 and £231,865,
meat stalls £30,278 and £25,215, implement
2™** £88 ’ 453 an< i £150,876, State hotels
£27,051 and £26,529, fish supplies £10,555
rnnorr* 14 !™ 1, and brickworks £10,2z0 and
, . 7. Whether the figures are worth any-
thing or nothing depends wholly upon
whether sufficient (or anything) has been
added to the expenditure to provide for
renewals and repairs.
* *
Edna Central wired its Melbourne office
last week that the stone in the make off No. 3
crosscut was worth 7205. Later on it was
found that a mistake had been made in the
message, and that the stuff was worth only
34s.—pennyweights, in short, instead of
ounces. Of course, as the market had bolted
on receipt of the first news, there is a row ;
and it isn’t to end in nothing at all like so
many other mining fusses. This time too
many fat pigs got their tails singed. For a
start, exit R. Williams, the manager. Maybe
he wasn t so much to blame as some people
SBy U make sure > ? he B toc k Exchanges
ought (1) to get the directors to investigate
farther, (2) to help the directors by having
an examination made of all orders carried
out and wires received by their members, and
*3) to ask the Westralian authorities to
supplement any such investigation. It is
certainly necessary to know who bought and
sold ; and on that we shall be able to judge
whether It. W illiams is the victim of a piece
of bad^luck —or something else.
the Bullfinch meeting in London,
1. Doolette, in his usual optimistic way,
reckoned that prospects were all right.
Developments at 510 ft. had justified the
deepening of the main shaft to that point,
and, although the grade of the reserves was
down wS. 6d. compared with the previous
>eai, he was confident that when develop-
ment had been done in the two bottom levels
the average would improve. All the aliens
in the mine had been cleared out.
this had led to a serious shortage of labor,
ynd. to make matters worse, the quality
was deteriorating, owing to the number of
oung men going to the war. Xhere were
many parts of the mine which would, when
further opened up, place it in a much-
improved position, but to do this would cost
about £12,000. The Board hoped to give
shareholders another div. before the end of
the year. After that they must not expect
much until the policy of development mapped
out had been completed and the value of the
mine at greater depth demonstrated. Mean-
time it was intended to test the main shoot
down - to 600 ft. by winzing, and thus avoid
the considerable expense that would be
entailed in shaft sinking and crosscutting on
the blind.
* * * *
Word has been received in the West from
Senator Pearce that the exempting of gold-
mines from the provisions of the JVar-time
Profits Bill will be considered when the
measure comes before Parliament.
Nullagine (W.A.) expects to start sluic-
ing for gold and diamonds within three
months. It has 530 acres, but only a bit of
this has been tested. Still, according to
Colin Fraser, there are about three-quarters
of a million yards of alluvial averaging
2s. lOd. to start on. The capacity of the
plant is estimated at from 20,000 to 25,000
yards per month. Several diamonds have
been found. One, valued at between £6O and
£7O, was presented to Bill Robinson and
taken by him to London to be cut.
* * * *
Melbourne broker Tricks has not yet got
liis Empress mine at Mount Magnet (W.A.)
going properly. Manager Hartrick left it
pretty sick, and it has just straggled on
under his successors. The last of those is
W. J. Rickard, who made a name for cheap
mining at New Chum Goldfields, Bendigo.
At the Empress he went south at the 335 ft.
level, and as he punched ahead values ran
at one time up to loz. With 4ft. of stone it
looked a monte that he woum make a splash,
but the battery refused to back up the pan-
nings. Rickard has enough optimism to feel
that a strong reef like that of the Empress
ought to have a decent trial, so he has got
his Board to give him a bit of cash to spend
on seeing whether the mine can stand up to
the collar.
* * * . *
There’s a row in Hobart over the State
Ministry’s intention to lease 50 acres at
Derwent Park to the Amalgamated Zinc Co.
Someone has found out that the land is
wanted for a model suburb and that a
wretched, zinc plant would spoil everything.
That gives the North its chance; it says
th'ere’s square miles of land to be had on
the Tamar, with a deep-water frontage and
24 hours’ steam nearer Broken Hill, where
the material for treatment is to come from.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Poor old J. H. Gillies is getting
it in _the neck again. According to the
Hobart Daily Post there’s a dark con-
spiracy against him on the part of Amalga-
mated Zinc and the Mount Lyell Co., who
are out to see that his process for treating
zinciferous ores doesn’t get a fair trial.
Amalgamated Zinc’s move in getting a power
contract with the Speck’s Ministry and
snapping up a site at Derwent Park, right
on the power-transmission line and handy
to Hobart, while the Gillies Co. has been
shunted away to North-west Bay, is alleged
to be part of the plot. It is hinted that, in
order to keep the big fellows from squeezing
him out and ensure getting some ore to
work on, Gillies has had to acquire a mine
on the West Coast (Tas.). But if he has
got it, why all the yell? Anyway, the Post
and some other people in the Speck are out
to upset the Amalgamated contract, if they
can. They say it isn’t legal, though the
Attorney-General says it’s all right. Any-
way, the contract doesn’t have to go to
Parliament, so it will be a job to disturb it.
* * # *
Six months after the close of the period
with which they deal, reports of the Briseis
‘•Tas.) stroll in under order from the
London branch of Tom Husband’s office.
Lindesay Clark recounts that just enough
water was available to keep the nozzles
dribbling on to the last remnant of the old
Briseis claim and to sluice some of the top
drift on Ringarooma Hill. But good rain
fell then, so this year he has already cleaned
up 223 tons black tin against 382 - tons for
the whole of 1915. His working profit was
£20,007 for the year, and £13,000 for the
last six months. Taxation was ravenous in
London, so that, after the usual little depre-
ciation allowance had been made and the
London Board had got its whack, onlv £3904
was left to carry forward into 1916. The
grip on the reserve of £50,000 isn’t relaxed,
and the co. had £7700 in cash on December
31. This plus the profit of £13,000 to June
30 may mean that London will feel inspired
to shell out another div. before the winter
campaign is over. Clark has sluiced 1564
tons black tin out of the Krushka flat, and
he counts on another 800 tons before he
starts to think about shunting the Ringa-
rooma River into a new channel. Mean-
while he may hunt round for any dabs of
the rich stuff which kept the old North Home
mine a performer, and will also try to get on
to the drift below the lower layer of basalt
in the first section the Ringarooma Hill.
Already he has trucked 2,000,000 cub. yds. of
burden away at a cost of 7fd. per cub. yard,
thus clearing a good bit of his track to the
4000 tons of oxide that he counts on getting
out of the drift below No. 1 pile of bluestone.
It won't be to-day or to-morrow; but if
people hang on to Briseis and tin doesn’t
slump too far, they should have a fair run
of divs. Clark’s side show is dredging for
gold. He does this on the Wallace claims
(Vic.), where his four machines shjfted over
1,300,000 cub. yards last year for gold worth
£21,781. Running exes, were £16,871, so
he must have more than met all Australian
staff costs out of this show alone, thus free-
ing the Briseis mine of outgo in that direc-
tion.
As Upper Langi Logan got £l5OO to help
it keep going after having done very little,
it would have been too glaring if an old
battler like Duke Extended, Maryborough
(Vic.), had been turned down; so it is to
get something. But the something is a pal-
try £5OO, though it has as good a chance of
proving a run of dirt as the other show. A. W.
Moore now runs the Extended and reports
16dwt. dirt to the south-west, with the pay
wash widening out to 100 ft. His programme
is to push out and get under the surface bore
which gave good prospects in the
misty past, thus learning, incidentally,
if the gutter really has split into
eastern and western runs of wash. He
also will get ahead of No. 7 rise to
find out what the gutter is like towards the
Duke Consols. Of course, it would be a nice
plum for Consols if the Duke Extended fell
into its lap—and shareholders ought to re-
member that when they talk of slinging up
their scrip.
* * * »
The usual tall talk over Catherine Reef,
Bendigo, doesn’t hide the fact that the
monkey on the fence is patchy ground. The
reef at 2200 ft. is big enough to run out divs.
like shots from a quick-firer, but from its
baby days it lias been a tricky lot. Tributors
working on the spurs got the show on the
move, but their reign won’t last long. When
the co. enters on its own it will have over
500 ft. of reef to pick and choose from. The
tip is for a run of divs., with in-and-out
yields to keep the manager on tenterhooks.
If Central Blue had as much to show it
would be up to 205.; but the mugs have
been nipped by Catherine Reefs before, so
they are handling that stock very cautiously.
Porepunkah, Bright (Vic.), isn’t dead
yet; but it is some time since the dredge
emptied anything into shareholders’ pockets.
On a capital of £5OOO it has recovered
£34,457 worth of gold ; but last year there
was a net profit of only £251 on the £2325
raked up.
* *• * #
Chillagoe debenture-holders are becoming
restive, and there has been talk of realising
the security.
* * * *
For the half-year ended April 30 Corella,
Cloncurry, smelted 4272 tons ore for 257
tons copper and 14Soz. gold. Profit on
working account was £B7OO, or more than
£33 per ton of copper; the metal averaged
£l3l per ton, and Corella should be de-
voutly thankful. At the end of the term
there were liquid assets valued at £4700 in
excess of liabilities; £3155 of this was in
cash. It takes £5OOO to pay Is. per share,
so although the matte produced in June
gave 117 tons of copper, dividend prospects
are obscure. A co. producing matte has
usually a large quantity of products in pro-
cess of realisation, and the Corella had no
less than £30,000 thus hung up on April 30.
Obviously a rapid decline in the price of
copper would hit the concern hard.
* * * *
Little St. Mungo, owned mostly at Char-
ters Towers, paid its 23rd div. the other
day, and that makes £14:000 on a capi-
tal of £5OOO, of which £4500 went to pay
for the mine. There is on hand another
£2500 or so (net) in broken ore and cash.
Last half year wasn’t brilliant, in spite of
the Ilia'll price of copper: after allowing for
depreciation the co. had £491 to jingle. There
have been troubles with machinery and labor.
The ground between No. 4 and No. 5 level
(2Soft.)_ is giving most of the ore, and the
small rich vein there isn’t likely to be the
last: a lateral make was lately cut at 340 ft.
The stuff sent away last half averaged 22
p.c., and there were just over 300 tons of it.
* * * *
Carpathia (N.S.W.) had a sale this week
at 45., so there is still at least one man who
hasn’t been quite fed up on Ardlethan. He
will certainly have a better chance of mak-
ing money than the crowd which came in
at 30s. The co. has a handy cash balance,
and, besides a big heap of seconds, owns a
fair heap of concentrates which will be put
through again to bring them up to the
required 60 p.c. The mine will also go on
yielding patches of ore—perhaps more than
enough to keep the pot boiling for some time.
* * * *
The Adelaide Stock Exchange got a shock
last week, when a local gold-mine declared a
dividend —of a shilling on its 20.000 shares.
It is the first time such a thing has hap-
pened in South Aus. for a quarter of a
cc-ntury. The State has gold nearly every-
where in small quantities, but not" enough
of it in one place to make mining pay, even
where fossickers can knock out tucker. The
co. that has broken the spell is the Delo-
raine, which works in the hills near
Adelaide.
* * * *
The S’Afric-an House of Assembly has
agreed to a special levy of £1,000.000 on gold
mines. Payment is spread over three years:
£300.000 in 1916, £500,000 in 1917, and
£200,000 in 1918.
*** ■ .
One result of the Mt. Lyell Co.’s interest
in the Hercules-Rosebery field has been a
rattle among the dry bones. The Rosebery
Lodes Co. is having its little out in, and the
other day the Government assayer reported:
Gold, 2dwt. 21 grains; silver, Boz. Tdwt.;
lead, 7.(54 p.c.; zinc, 14.09 p.c. The co.
reckons it is on a big body of good sul-
phide ore, and says it has a buyer waiting
for the stuff.
“Six-and-Eight”: Whoever told “W.A.M.”
(B. 13/7/T6) that he would have to patron-
ise Costs to the extent of £lB gave him
rotten information—so far, as N. S. Wales
is concerned, at any rate. The Registrar of
Probates or any of his agents (C’s.P.S.
generally) will get letters of administration
or probates in estates under £3OO. The fees
charged are 10s. for the first £5O of value,
2s. 6d. for every additional £5O, and the cost
of a probate advt. in a daily paper—about
five bob. The total cost therefore in aN. 8.
Wales estate of £lOO would be under a
pound. Or alternatively, if the estate be
worth more than £3OO, “W.A.M.” may go to
the public trustee, who will do such jobs for
a commission of 2| p.c., or less in the cases
of big estates.
* * * *
The General Electric Co. manufacture Mine
Electric Locomotives of both storage battery and
trolley types, which will withstand the most severe
operating conditions of mine service. Careful study
of locomotives in actual service and a thorough
investigation of the varied problems of mine-haulage
has resulted in the introduction of new improvements
and refinements of design. These locomotives cover
a range of sizes and forms wide enough to include
any haulage requirements within the demands of
electric locomotive work, and incorporate all those
features which have been found most desirable bv
practical mine operators. Anyone requiring- either
information or quotations in this connection mav
obtain same by communicating with the Australian
General Electric Co., corner Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, Sydney ; or corner Queen and Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited
Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
P/oWem; they have installed 64 of them, and sav
I he Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
thv.y say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe, the most satisfactory
pressure pipe to install. Used by the foremost
mining companies in Australasia. There is no corro-
sion, no rust, and is unaffected by mineralised water,
bend for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pme Company Limited, 57 York Street, Sydney,
lactones: N. S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia.—
Advt.
* * * *
Ore Treatment.— We concentrate ores containing
Molybdenite, Wolfram, Bismuth, Antimony, Tin,
Copper, etc. Wi ite for our terms. Sydney Export
Co. Ltd., 1 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt. [g
*
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt,
* * * «
o^ H - H^ NDLING t ) l nd Road-building Machinery,
Oonciete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt. ’ tlual
* * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mei-
bom ne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors Guide.— Advt
*
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus Assav
Balances 63 ' Sup P ]ies - Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Sf' „ Rights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
n o ;l , e f, rates ; Call or write for particulars. H. B.
R * I C ° 04. Lt x’’, B °’ Conne ß street, Sydney;
and 440 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
( 11 ild Cat” continued on page 26.)


old* brcustHiftk
HEERING®
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Zanetic entirely eliminates the danger of unread-
able copies. By using it in Penduplicate books per-
fect, permanent Pencopies are secured, with unsoiled
originals. From Stationers or from S. B. Zanetic,
Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.— Advt. [3
Have Youthful Hair
Grey Hair Will No Longer Rob You of
Your Youthful Looks If You Try This
Simple Home Recipe.
If your hair has begun to turn grey, or
has a faded, lustreless appearance, you can
readily darken it and bring back its beauty
by using this home recipe, which is neither
expensive nor difficult to prepare. In half a
pint of water mix these ingredients, to be
had at any chemist’s.
Bay Rum • } oZ -
Oriex Compound .... ~ 1 small box.
This preparation is also fine for the scalp,
allays all itching, removes dandruff and stops
falling hair. Apply once a day until the
hair is darkened, then once every two weeks
will be sufficient. Be sure the chemist gives
you Oriex Compound, for no substitute will
give the same good results. — Advt. lyl
PAULINE et CIE
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Announce Special Reductions in all their
French, English and Pauline Models.
3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George St.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparab'e Position. Easterly Aspect.
Over ooking Botanical Cardens.
_______ MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress. _
SINCE 1679. since 1679.
HAIG* HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 24, 1916.
My Dear Arini. —
Friday’s meeting at Government House
was a social advt. for tlie Flag rally. IF \.
Braddon addressed the company from a forti-
fied area behind the grand piano. W ith
samples of the Union Jack he goaded
those present to enrol their names—for
a shilling a head —in tomes that are hence-
forth to rest, in a suitable sarcophagus in
the Mitchell Library. Mrs. Mary Gilmore,
asked to speak on behalf of "Women War
Workers, flung a literary posy at the. thou-
sands of nameless toilers who work silently
in the background for every patriotic fund.
War-Chest Walker gave a brief and lucid
story of the British flag, and then tried to
flee, but was buttonholed by a good lady
who told him, at considerable length, that
every State-school child already knew the
tale. Mrs. Mackinnon, in honeyed tones,
described her own emotions —a favorite
theme —when she suddenly beheld a Union
Jack. Lady Edeline was in the front chair;
and Mrs. Danger Owen, worn with overwork
for the Red Cross, sat, as usual, in the back-
ground.
The new young gentleman help, Lieut.
Boulton, came back with his Ex. from
Melbourne. He's the slightly-damaged hero
I mentioned a few weeks ago. on leave from
a Highland regiment. The Stricklands met
the poor boy in Victoria and led him over.
He’s only 19.
Having only a clouded notion of what the
Women’s Movement is going to do for Aus-
tralia, one treads warily. There’s going, for
a start, to be a big stir at the Women’s Club
next month. That slender bundle of nervous
energy, Mrs. David, is president of these
Girls o’ Freedom. “The old shackles” —this
is how the Movement talks—will be broken.
Emancipated woman is to sit in both Houses
and knock the nonsense out of hon. members
of the Opposition sex. If the Girls get shaky
on their planks Annie Golding, who is on the
committee, will stiffen the supports. Mean-
while, Man wriggles uneasily. Already he
feels the Movement’s hatpins in his bones.
Writing in his tent, “Somewhere on the
Indian Frontier,” Lieut. Cecil Rae drops in
with a pithy remark. “You often speak of
coincidences. Well, here’s one. I was sit-
ting in our mess tent reading the Woman’s
Letter in The Bulletin of May 18. Just as
I read a par. about Miss Janet Fell, of Syd-
ney, a strange officer rode up. He intro-
duced himself as Fell, of Sydney, and said
he w T as a nephew of John of that ilk. I
picked up the paper and showed him the
item about Miss Janet, who is his cousin.
It was news to him, as he’d just been trans-
ferred from Mesopotamia, and had had no
home letters for months.”
Rae, who Avas a well-known mining engi-
neer in Queensland a while back, is now
bossing a company of sappers and miners.
With other units they’re watching, like
terriers, one of the roads by which the
enemy rat might try to reach India. Talk-
ing of heat he says: “The old Australian
‘Hay, Hell and Booligal’ needs revising. We
can give all three a start of half-way round
the course and win easily.”
Passengers by the recently-departed Malwa
included the Countess of Glasgow, wife of a
former M.L. Governor.
Winifred Docker, eldest daughter of the
Judge, has been busy for months past help-
ing to amuse Tommy Atkins in the Cold
Country. Uncle Arthur and his wife lend
a hand occasionally. Mrs. Arthur is a sister
of Carr Smith, the big, bearded parson who
introduced chasubles and other millinery at
St. James’s. Carr looks after a collection
plate nowadays at Grantham, in Lincoln-
shire, and has just been made a canon of
Lincoln Cathedral. Let’s hope the Zeppelin
commanders who raid those parts occasion-
ally will know -enough about ecclesiastical
matters not to think he is some sort of
howitzer which ought to have a bomb
dropped on it. Arthur Docker’s eldest son
(by a previous marriage), a major in a
British regiment, was killed in action in
Belgium just after the war started.
A note from an Artillery boy at Wands-
worth Hospital,, where many sick Kan-
garoos are sent:—-
Queen-mother Alexandra looked in the other day
and took great interest in a ward in which Queen
Amelie, of Portugal, assists several afternoons a
week. The visitor, who is very deaf, you know,
noticed one Billjim with a badly-swollen face. He
was one of the hospital orderlies, but had been so
badly bitten by mosquitoes that they had sent him
into the ward for a couple of days. Sister Barrett
tried to explain this. You can imagine how the lads
heads shot under the bedclothes to stifle noises when
royalty exclaimed: “You poor boy! And did it
knock your teeth out?’’
Our enterprising ally has scored again.
There are Japanese pianos now on the Syd-
ney market! They are cased in a strangely-
perfumed wood.
Ruth Bannister, the Cremorne girl, now
in London, who sculps in wood, has been
given an order by the Russian Grand Duke
Michael for a couple of chairs for his front
hall. Michael is domiciled in England,
where his morganatic wife is known as the
Countess Torby. Their countess daughter
has but lately accepted a sparkling half-hoop
from the Battenburg princeling who was
out this way not so long ago.
The other day Dorothy Boulton took _ a
plain gold ring from Engineer-Lieut. Dennis,
of H.M.A.S.’ Brisbane. He had the luck,
by the way, to be on the Sydney when it
pounded the Emden —a thrill he has put
away as an heirloom. Dorothy is the only
daughter of Mrs. Boulton, of Gladesville.
Father —now passed over the border—used
to manage the Union Bank at Clunes (Vic.).
Two of the bride’s brothers are at the Front,
so a quiet wedding preceded the honeymoon
to Cairns. Bride Dorothy, who calls artist
Margaret Flockton her auntie, wore cream
outfit with the prevailing seagull millinery.
Miss Theo Cowan’s is the face that meets
yours in this little
portrait. The
sculptor is a Syd-
ney-born girl, but
has lived nearly all
her life in foreign
parts, and was edu-
cated in Italy,
where she also
studied her art
under Riv a 11 a.
Busts of Dr. Flin-
ders Petrie (the
Egyptologist grand-
son of our famous
Matthew Flinders),
the Bishop of
London and Mrs.
Brown Potter
stand to her credit.
In our own
National Gallery Tlieo Cowan is represented
by a bust of its late president Du Faur.
At present she is engaged modelling a sol-
dier with kit and rifle—a regular Tommy
Anzao, which will serve as a model for the
disabled soldiers who propose to work at
toy making.
In 1909 Mrs. Ivettlewell asked her friend
Mrs. Clunies Ross what she thought of
Chief Gardener Maiden’s idea of wattle as
the flower of Australian patriotism. The
reply was favorable. So the two conspira-
tors formed themselves into a deputation,
and saw the Botanic Gardens boss. He
gave a glad “Yes” .to the notion of creating
a Wattle Day League. The babe drew its
first breath at a meeting in the Royal
Society’s rooms, and the founders were soon
submerged in wattle literature. This was
poured in from every hamlet in the State.
After seeing yellow for some time, the
League settled down to business. Just now,
it is preparing to give our soldiers a wattled
feast on August 1.
Things are different. Two years ago, or a.
little less, the war was a novelty ; and don’t
you remember the fervor with which our ex-
G.-G. Lady Dudley went into the nursing-
business at Boulogne and generous old Lucas
Tooth poured out beer-money on the Aus-
tralian Voluntary Hospital? But Kitchener
had little use for either of them, and the
hospital, magnificently equipped, was
to only when there W3.S no room unjwhere
else. Meanwhile an expensive staff, etc., sim-
ply ate up money; and a plaintive letter by
last mail told that they’d all got a month’s
notice and couldn’t sleep at nights for the
howling of the wolf at the door.
Parson Robinson, shepherd of souls at
Coff’s Harbor, annexed Ruby Stevens at St.
Philip’s the other evening. The tall, willowy
bride is a daughter "f George Stevens, of
Berry and Co. A mist of white tulle fell
over' the usual bridal plumage. _ Brides-
maidens Johnston and Bateman, in flufty
white garments, carried baskets of roses —a
charming floral climax. And Parson Cook
was second-best man.
The George Sly family seems to have
settled down for a while on the other side.
Now father goes with daughter Hazel by
way of the Cape, to see how they’re getting
on.
A recent snapshot of “Gerry” Cooper
showed that young man in khaki _ and a
British training camp. Father William, by
the way, after waiting for the English bliz-
zards to blow themselves out, had the bad
luck to fall ill on the way ’Ome. Carried off
the Vancouver boat at Honolulu, he came
back to Sydney to recuperate. Now he
makes another start by the Niagara, to join
the rest of the Cooper baronetage in Eng-
land.
A subdued chorus of feminine uismay
bailed the Frampton bust of Edith Cavell -
the nurse who was martyred by the Huns.
Marble is cold; still it is suitable for the
presentment of the dignity of death. But
Frampton. It.A., judging by the photo, of his
work, has mistaken dullness. for a.gnity -
dullness relieved by large stiff. bows under
the chin, which give an odd Christy Minstrel
effect.
Dr. and Mrs. Larkins are home in Mar-
riclcville after three months’ honeymooning
in Japan. One of them—l won’t tell you
which—brings word that at some of the
springs up there mixed bathing in the garb
of Adam and Eve prevails. Tourists have the
fact indicated by guides beforehand, so they
go on —or bolt.
Furs, according to a recently-returned
Sydney woman, are so cheap in China that
some Australian women were buying pelts
to match every frock. The Australian Cus-
toms officials have been rather hard to con-
vince ; but as it’s quite possible to wear a
new fur coat every day most of the stuff
squeezed through duty free. But you can
get more than you pay for when you buy
fur in China. I won’t tell you what.
The Apollo Club (nee Liedertafel) gave a
sing-song in the Conservatorium the other
night. Arundel Orchard shook the baton
with special vim over the “Barcarolle.” The
swinging melody from “Tales of Hoffman”
has been arranged for the Apollos by their
conductor, and it goes gaily. More solid food
from “Rig Veda” consisted of incantations to
ancient gods. But it was hard to imagine
the sacrificial flames addressed by W. H.
Parkinson in his solo on the Conservatorium
platform. The soprano of the evening was
Katie Stevenson. Goossens, pulling himself
together after last week’s shock, was in
better form.
A voice from Fremantle breathes o’er
Eden, per penny post. Lieut. Jack Kerry,
of the R.A.G.A., says he has married the
nicest girl in the West. She’s Marie
.Haynes, a daughter of R. S., K.C., and was
a visitor to these parts a couple of years
ago. The pink-and-khaki wedding occurred
in Perth R.C. Cathedral, where R.A.A. men
supplied the usual arch of steel.
This week Lieut. Griffiths claims Merle
Campbell for his own. In St. John’s, Dar-
linghurst, I fancy.
The Women’s Horticultural Society is now
actually on the land. It’s a suitable patch
for experimental gardening, at Chatswood,
furnished by Mrs. Harding. For the
present a gardener of the other sex is
demonstrating to the spade ladies, and his
Saturday afternoon-at-homes have been well
attended. The lessons cost members only
sixpence a time. The next move is to
have an Eve trained by Adam. Then she’ll
take hold of the demonstrations. The
Ilorti.’s new depot opens this week. You’ll
find it snuggling up alongside the Cafe
Franqais in George-street.
William Holman, senior, of the
N.S.W. Premier,
belongs to the old
English school of
dramatic art, which
insisted on distinct
el-o-cution as first
aid to winning an
audience. The mod-
ern actor, notably
the U.S.A. brand
which has been so
much in evidence of
late years, gener-
ally treats language
like chewing-gum
(Fred Niblo was a
brilliant exception)
and merely ejects
the mangled re-
mains. As for the
U.S. actress —well,
she scorns to take any but the front stalls
into her confidence. On his standing as an
elocutionist, Holman pere is well placed as
teacher of his art in the State Conserva-
tcrium. His photo, is included in the Letter.
The Vagabonds played “Dr. Wake’s
Patient” in the Repertory on Saturday
night. Results go to their cot in the Ren-
wiek Hospital. There was a floor-to-ceiling
audience, so there’ll be enough and a bit
over for the sick babes. The only brick—
really a pebble—one throws at the Vags. is
over the long waits, a complaint common
to all amateurs. In consequence suburban
society had to bolt for home before the
trembling hero screwed up his courage and
audibly kissed the heroine. The old farmer,
Andrew Wake, cleverly played by Jack
Mackey, was up to professional form. Ruby
Coxhead pleased as the mild old farmeress.
Frieda Bennett as a haughty Countess was
well-frocked for the occasion. But her stage
daughter, Lady Gerania, was obsessed by a
waggling feather and a bank-holiday get-up.
One of the 4th Battalion. Lieut. Travers
Brett, took possession of his legal property
in St. Philip’s the other eve. The bride was
the tall and comely Essie, a younger daugh-
ter of the Roseville Mutton household, lhe
’groom is over six feet in liis socks, so the
pair made a stately progress down the aisle,
with four pink rosebuds —-Gracie Brett, Lily
Perry* and Marcia and Vivienne Mutton m
attendance.
Sydney has surged with wintering Maori-
landers this season. Amongst them came
and lately went Mrs. Bob Gillies, of \V ai-
mate, S. Canterbury. She used to be one
of the Woods, of Bega. Here she saw off a
soldier brother who went w T ith a camel corps
commission. Bob Gillies is one of an Auck-
land clan and related to Dr. Sinclair Gillies.
Dame Hay, of Crow’s Nest, and various
other Scotch people. Other M.L. gadders
are the Elworthys and Mrs. (Major) Willie
Bond, from Christchurch, who are camped
at the Australia while Mrs. Bond (who
used to be an Elworthy) looks for her mis-
bud health. Doctors and a private hospital
gave her a fair start. The Elworthy widow
owns sheep and acres at Pareora and three
squatting sons, the youngest of whom is in
khaki and France.
Mrs. Walter Johnston, from windy Wel-
lington, also seeks our sun. It was her
nephew, Fetherston Johnston, who was killed
in France the other week, making the third
child of Charlie Johnston, M.L.C., to pass
out this year—two of them Hun victims.
His daughter Zoe lost her husband, “Booty ’
Levin, at the war, and she herself died
lately. Lieut. O. K. Fetherston Johnston
was a pupil of St. Ignatius College, at
Riverview. The five Johnston sons all
joined the colors.
William J. Little, M.L.C., writes from
Samarai to say, apropos a recent mention
of Mrs. Lewis (formerly Nurse Tait), that,
great as that lady’s services were, the awful
dysentery outbreak at Lakekamu had been
mastered before her arrival by the late
Nurse Ellen Combley, of the Anglican Mis-
sion, and Miss Nowland. A movement is
still afoot at Samarai to establish some
memorial to Nurse Combley.
Those Red Cross Club rooms which hum
with spinning machines have a new fore-
woman. She is Mrs. Southern, a Westralian,
who is aiding while she’s visiting.
One of the Potts Point Nettlieim family,
Leopold, a son of the late Oosmann, passed
out in New York in July 22.
' . Signaller Tom Skeyhill, who will see no
more the beauty of his native Australia, lec-
tures this week in the Little Theatre. He
has a tale of Anzacs to unfold.
Any old linen? Send it to the Town Hall,
where Ella Richards will organise its pas-
sage through the sterilising department.
At the Y.M.C.A. appeal the other night a
concert auction interlarded the music. A
basket of flowers brought a golden harvest
Every bidder’s name was taken down and he
(or she) had to pay up a bob to swell the
tctal. Honorary-manager John Brownlow
had Philip Wilson, Lawrence Campbell, H.
de Robeck, Ella Goodman, and the aesthetic
Archie Ranclaud to help.
Crinolines, long threatened, are hanging
over the community like small meat-cages.
As yet the war-haze has kept the average
woman too chastened in spirit to encourage
the frenzy of hoops. But who can look un-
moved ait the early-Victorian fashions in
t’otherside journals? It only needs an over-
whelming verdict in France to turn Woman
into a sartorial menace to the traffic. And
but yesteryear the hobble-skirt seemed as
though it might have stood against the world
for many ankle-breaking seasons.
The Red Cross pictures at the Piccadilly
drew big audiences. Convalescents at Rand-
wick Hospital and the artificial-limb trying-
on department elsewhere were amongst the
best in a good show. Comforts workers
chortled with glee at the “million garments
sent to the Front” packing depot. Some-
how the jumps had attacked the cinema,
just here, and the frigid girls looked like
marionettes on electric wires dashing
through mountains of softgoods.
Saturday’s orchestral concert in the Con-
servatorium induced a few hundred citizens
to sit indoors on a gorgeous sunlit, after-
noon. Verbrugghen makes his fiddlers
attack the old masters on their feet, so they
had the traffic-policeman’s leg-weary expres-
sion when they’d . finished Beethoven’s long
Symphony No. 2. J. Messeas, on the ’cello,
with the orchestra to supply the high lights,
had to thread his return journey through the
knees of his friends, in order to bob his
head as an answer to clamorous recalls.
Sergeant-Major Will Thompson, who in
peace helps the Solicitor for Railways here-
abouts, is now attached to the Provost-
Marshal’s staff in London. Thompson, who
was wounded in the Gallipoli landing, is
engaged to Dorothy Richards. She’s the
only daughter of Dudley Richards, a well-
known member of the Barnes Operatic Co.,
London.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


In Town or Country,
for Peace or War —-
lOudge-Multi Motor Cycle
GIVES EQUAL SATISFACTION.
The Motor Cycle that helped the ANZACS at Gallipoli, and
is now helping the RUSSIANS in their great advance.
EZ3
3|-h.p. RUDGE-MULTI, £B5 f.0.r., Sydney
The Russian Government ordered 450 RUDGE MULTIS in a single order,
and the Australian Defence Department also ordered RUDGE MULTIS for
the use of the Anzacs in Egypt and at the Dardanelles.
The RUDGE MULTI is the Motor-Cycle with the wonderful gear—just a
touch of the lever and a Rudge makes light work of the steepest hills.
The joy of the Open Road is known to all who ride a Rudge Multi.
Immediate Deliveries of RUDGE MULTIS from Stock.
SOLE AGENTS
for N.S.W.,
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
124-132 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Other Agencies: Triumph,New Hudson,B.A.T., Reading Standard 8 A.B.C. Motor Cycles.
Manufacturers of B. 8 B. Motor Cycles fitted with J.A.P. Engines.
HARDY BROTHERS UA
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS, SILVERSMITHS.
WEDDING PRESENTS.
QUALITY —VALUE —DESIGN,
“Chippendale” Pattern Soup Tureen. Holds 3 pints,
£7 10 0
Selections sent to the Country
on Approval if Desired.
Orders by Mail receive careful
and prompt attention.
Five Per Cent.
Cash Discount.
Illustrated
Catalogue
Post Free
on Request.
;
Stand, with Solid Aluminium Plato, for warming Entree Dishes.
18 inches long x 9 inches wide.
£6 10 0
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROTHERS (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON W.
V
4
m.
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o’clock”
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboard.
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, Ist D.C.L.1., writes:
“ U, 3 to the time of first using a“7 o'clock"
Safety Razor out here shaoing was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight."
Price in Australia 12/6
Price in New Zealand ... 13/0 A
“7 O’CLOCK ” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case—the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by in. d;ep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
ALPH ABERCROMBY
George Street, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia.
h
IT IS HERE IN THE MECHANISM
that the Powers 6B is unrivalled. There are many
Power Features, but two stand out.
THE AUTOMATIC LOOP SETTER
Prevents stoppage of machine through losing bottom loop,
and the
SPECIAL CINE MOTOR WITH MECHANICAL
CONTROL.
Ask the really experienced operator what this means.
See the
POWERS 6B
BIOSCOPE
Demonstrated.
Considering the fact that the Powers Company has been
in the front rank of the projection business since it first
started, it is not surprising that the Powers 68, their
latest production, is favored by G 5 to 70 per cent, of the
best shows.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CARBONS, ROLL TICKETS, SLIDES, etc.


Farmer’s Smokers'’ Sundries
w
FARIviEKS SVO^Y
NO. o*l4B.
SPECIALLY SELECTED QUALITY.
UNIFORMLY KEEN VALUE.
OF 48 —“ Victoria House”
Smoking Mixture. Finds
immediate favor with every
devotee of “My Lady Nico-
tine.” 4oz. tins, 2/-J Boz.
tins, 4/-; per lb., 8/-
OR49 —Farmer’s High-grade
Hand-made Cigarettes.
Jib. box, containing 80 (Egyp-
tian). Price 5/-
lb. box, containing 90 (Rus-
sian). Price f» /-
Jib. box, containing 90 (Vir-
ginian). Price.... 4/6
Carnage Paid to any part
of Australia.
H G *-* - & Q£
Cigarette
PARMCRS
No. 0R49.
FARMER'S,
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
SYDNEY
GAGE HATS for SPRING
l\\ ..jjSk
m
O vy Gag* Hpt»
QAQE HATS
are the Correct Expression of Good Style.
Australia’s Greatest March Songr,
The Anzac Marseillaise
Sung Everywhere.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, 7d.
LiOEBEIi & CO.,
13 Royal Arcade, Melbourne.
Wholesale Distributers, where you can hear it
played over.
ĥ
Leather Vests
For CAMP or TRENCH USE
Lined with Pure Wool.
Insect Proof'd
Price 1 7/6.
SUEDE VESTS 42/-
Send for descriptive list,
Wc pack for poßt If necessary
ROTHWELL’S Lit
Edward Street, BRISBANE
£5O Reward
Volker Mantles are British made by
a British Company. There are no
German Directors, Shareholders,
or German connections whatev r.
The Company offer £5O re * ard for
information enabling them to take
legal proceedings against any
person or persons circulating
statements to the contrary.
VOLKER
GAS
MANTLES
As British as a British Battleship
Volker Lighting Corpora! ion, Ltd.,
Wandsworth, London, England.
Representativejor Australia :
C. Falk, J 6-30, Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, July 24, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie, —
To the deplorable “queen” method of rais-
ing hospital funds there is no end. One
reads that “Sol” Green, after a profitable
day at Echuca races, donated £5O to a queen
competition in aid of the local hospital. It’s
to be hoped that Echuca will not drop a
portion of the money won by “queen” votes
in making a costly fiasco of the “crowning”
ceremony, as was done by the St. Vincent’s
amateur show-folk in Melbourne the other
Saturday. The grand climax of the St. Vin-
cent’s excitement was a financial failure
which is said to have eaten up quite a big
slice of the profits. The management, after
spending £3OO in erecting a huge platform
in the wrong place, expected 30,000 people
to come and pay 2s. admission to the Exhibi-
tion Building. But the attendance was not
more than 2000 or so, composed of friends
and adherents of the mostly-disappointed
“queens.” Old experts, who knew what to
expect of the public, had warned Mother
Bectress and her advisers that anything more
than a shilling charge at the turnstiles would
keep the crowd away. But they wouldn’t be
advised. The publicity given to the voting
competition had turned their heads, x'ney
thought the world was dying to see the
crowned queens and courtiers in all their
glory, whereas the world was merely smiling
at the notion of charging two shillings for a
silly sort of entertainment.
The new extension of the Soldiers’ Lounge
on the Lower Esplanade at St. Kilda was
opened on Saturday after. a by Lady
Helen. There was a tremendous crowd, and
L saw her Ex.’s lips movi er tinder a wine-
colored hat. A bouquet of yellow jonquils
clasped devotionally in white-gloved hands
was visible over the shoulders of the multi-
tude. A pair of genthelps supported an
elbow apiece and stamped, I suppose, on the
toes of the foremost gazers. Mrs. Pearce,
very daintily frocked in fawn color, had
her tall Senator to defend her. Mrs.
Hughes, who is fairy godmother to the St.
Kilda warriors, had her General with her,
and he faced the raffle- girls without flinching.
The William Sargoods, who grow mutton
at Narada, back of the You Yangs, are off to
London by the Pacific route (the All Right
route, some call it). Mrs. William is going
to work among wounded soldiers; William,
who is a son of a former Defence Minister,
will offer his services to the British Govern-
ment. The Sargoods usually dwell in Gee-
long, so it will be a change to go and live
in a quiet, unlighted town like London after
being used to a city with electric lights all
down the main street.
Captain Firth, who came to Australia last
January as A.D.C. to your Governor Strick-
land, has gone over to the G.-G. Captain
Haskett-Smith, the G.-G.’s A.D.C., belongs
to the same regiment as Firth—the. Worces-
tershire —and it was a natural thing that,
when opportunity offered, his old pal should
join him in the job of helping Lady Helen
with her bazaar-bargains.
Captain G. G. Anderson, a young Mel-
bourne doctor who joined the R.A.M.C. at
the beginning of the war, has been inva-
lided to Nice after a bout with double
pneumonia. He is shortly to be returned
fo Melbourne and a home-service job.
Captain Greenwood, the spectacular
young man who used to secretary the St.
John Civil Ambulance Association, and who
was one of our amateur theatrical idols, is
off to the fighting ditches. Since the begin-
ning of the war he has had charge of in-
valided soldiers at the central military Rest
Home in St. Ivilda-road. Just after the
G.-G. returned from Westralia he called on
the Captain to say good-bye and congratu-
late him on the Rest Home organisation.
Charlie Strong, a son of the reverend
Peace Society apostle, is off on the Orsova
with three other military vets.
Colonel Vance, the medical commandant
of the Caulfield Military Hospital, has just
had an accident that will lay him aside
for two or three months. The Colonel was
riding a motor-cycle when he became in-
volved with a lamp-post, a motor and a
tram. Result, a fracture above the ankle
and many bruises. Vance is a heavy man,
and from the first had a shy feeling toward
the useful military motor-cycle which has
laid out a number of the military heavy-
weights who have tried it. Dr. Cuscaden,
who commands all the Victorian military
brass plates, says this is. the twelfth leg-
fracture case to the debit of the noisy
machine.
The clan of the McKay, of the Sunshine
Harvester works, wants a lot of beating for
patriotic endeavor. One McKay brother
and 20 nephews and cousins have enlisted.
Whernside, the fine old Albert Miller
home at Toorak, is to be auctioned. It has
acres of park and garden, and these will be
cut up remorselessly into handy suburban
blocks in the same way as the Armytages’
Como estate. The place belonged originally
to knight James Lorimer, who had it built
and planted in his early political days. The
Albert Miller widow has taken to flat life
in the city.
Beatrice Day, in Melbourne for a fort-
night on her way to France, boxed at
“Romance” in the Theatre Royal the other
night. She declares that she has not bought
a new rag since the war, so I presume the
gorgeous black chiffon velvet and silver she
was wearing dated back to 1914. As you’ve
been told already, her Robin has just left
college in Maoriland and departed in khaki
for France.
“Rosna,” writing from London, tells me
that there has just died in Switzerland the
Countess de Salis, who was a La Trobe,
daughter of Vic.’s first Lieut-Governor.
Capt. La Trobe came to Vic. in 1839 as
superintendent of the infant colony, and
brought along his wife and this daughter,
then aged two, so she was one of the State’s
very first assisted immigrants. Perhaps the
very first.
Women boundary-riders are the latest in
Australia, and. Otway Falkiner —one of the
younger Falkiner sons in the Riverina —-
has to be credited with introducing them
at Widgiewa station, which Falkiner. sen.,
bought from the late squatter Horsfall. Mr.
Falkiner coveted Widgiewa for years, but
it was long before the Horsfalls could be
persuaded to part with it. Eventually
Falkiner managed to purchase the place, but
he died before having the joy of personally
taking possession.
Last week a son of the Edmund Jowetts,
whilst flying for his country, was winged by
the Huns and dropped into the enemy’s lines,
llis brother (another flying man) cables
hopefully that the broken machine was seen
to descend fairly slowly, arpl it is thought
that the occupant was not fatally injured.
Charles Dalton, vicar of St. George’s.
Malvern, has heard the call and decided to
go back to England, where he has been
offered a satisfactory stipend at Camden
Town. The departing vicar is a tail, lean,
clean-shaven young fellow of uncertain age,
and has much in common, as to his air and
appearance, with that other well-razored
young Englishman who sometimes comes to
sit under him at St. George’s—Arthur
Stanley, of Government House. Dalton is
extremely High Church, which suits the
influential minority at St. George’s very
well; and lie is an earnest agitator for a
full offertory-bag, which is rather a bore to
the poor rich in these times when one has
to pay one’s gardener as much as 305.-a-
-weelc-and-found or be called a sweater.
Henry Cornish and his wife lately started
out with the idea of motoring into Riverina.
Mrs. Cornish, poor thing, has exhausted her-
self doing Braille work. She has thumped
out so many volumes with the little stilo
that she has developed neuritis in one arm ;
hence the motor jaunt. Mrs. Fred Army-
tage has now presented her with a machine
for doing the work, and she will tackle it
that way on her return. Henry Cornish
himself toils like a warehouse packer for
the Red Cross. He and Billy Williams
have a steady job o’ nights at the Govern-
ment House depot, where they work a big
press between them.
Aunt Adelaide gives the family news: —
Adelaide's severest storm for 20 years fell on it
one evening- last work, arriving from the east —a
quite unexpected quarter. Yet the place is so solidly
built that the damage, done was surprisingly small.
A woman was killed by the falling in of an old
cottage, a horse was electrocuted by a live wire, and
the Botanic Park lost about 80 trees. Apart from
these thing's the worst loss was in the orangeries,
which suffered horribly.
Heinicke’s place as conductor of the Elder Con-
servatorium orchestra is to be taken over by Winsloe
Hall, another member of the staff. He is better
known as a teacher of singing, but had long orches-
tral experience before leaving England, and has
already had charge of the Conservatorium band
during Heinicke’s absence some years ago.
Our recent hurricane was no gentleman. A nice
girl was crossing Rundle-street with her escort when
the whistling scoundrel raced up, ripped off the lady’s
dress and petticoats, and left her looking like a frank
hoarding advertisement. The dazed and blushing
escort promptly enfolded her in his overcoat, and she
ran before the gale into a nearby shop.
Some inter-collegiate football at the Adelaide Oval
and “David Ballard” by the Repertory Theatre at
Walkerville were Saturday’s chief dissipations.
Lady Galway was one of the audience at the Rep.
show. It was Wilfred Neill s last appearance for
an indefinite time in the amateur ranks. He has
enlisted.
Died at North Adelaide on Saturday, 11. D.
O’Halloran, youngest son of the late Major O’Hal-
loran, who was this State’s first Commissioner of
Police.
The reception arranged in the Stricklands’ honor
at Government House on Monday night started the
storm I've told you about. Sheets of galvanised iron,
cocked hats, advertisement hoarding and butlers were
blown around like so much rubbish. Otherwise the
reception proceeded without casualties. On Tuesday
there was a lunch with the Commonwealth Club, and
in the afternoon a visit to the School of Mines,
with President Langdon Bonvthon as pilot.
The sons of the late Captain Hubbe, who was
killed in the Boer War, have both received promo-
tion. One, who left here as a lieutenant, is a cap-
tain, and his elder brother, who went from W.A. as
a private, is now a lieutenant. He was one of t le
few to come seathless through the Gallipoli venture.
Explorer Mawson has been appointed embarkation
staff-officer at Liverpool, with the rank of captain.
Lieut. A. L. Kennedy, who was one of the Mawson
Expedition, and was making a magnetic survey of
Central Australia when war broke out, has been
wounded.
A picture of Theberton Hall, Suffolk, where Colonel
Light spent his boyhood, has been presented to the
Public Library by Mr. J. \V. Bakewell. Incidentally,
our Thebarton was christened after Colonel Light s
home, and the difference in spelling is attributed
by tradition to somebody’s bad writing. Theberton
Hall has so strong a resemblance to Government
House that the chances arc Colonel Light had a hand
in designing the latter.
The Women’s Non-Party Association is appealing
for women to stand for election to the municipal
councils at the end of the year. If I owned a really
impressive hat 1 would try to be Councilloi
Adelaide.
Singer Clytie Hihe, now in England, was the
soprano in “King Olaf’’ at the 105th concert of the
Sheffield Amateur Musical Society, and had a part
in the production of “The Messiah’’ at Hull.
The Gaffney-Cotter engagement will in-
terest Melbourne and Auckland folk. Am-
brose Gaffney, a well-tailored young clubman,
who “represents an English firm” in Mel-
bourne, has induced Winnie, the youngest
Cotter girl, to allow him to “endow" her
“with all his worldly goods." Mind, I’m
only quoting the marriage service, my dear.
As the law stands, a man may give his wife
next to none of those worldly goods and
bequeath her Nothing at All at his death.
No Gentleman One drew up the marriage
service, and it’s quite time the sec. of the
Law Institute looked into that clause which
should deal with the matter. However. I
merely skidded —the paper is so smooth. The
fair Cotter girl is herself well endowed. She is
an Aucklander, one of three sisters, and is
at present staying with mamma in Macleay-
street, Sydney. Papa Tommy Cotter, re-
cently deceased, was formerly City Solicitor
of Auckland and a barristerial Iv.C. (they
are all amalgams over there, you know —
these legal folk). He had the biggest practice
as an advocate in Auckland. The Cotter son
has just got back to Sydney after working
with the Red Cross on an Austrian frontier.
He intends to enlist from his native land.
Ida Valentine, only daughter of Alwyn
Valentine, of the Victorian Railways, is
busy on the trousseau hunt. ~ Her engage-
ment has just been announced to one
Prescott, who came here about two years
ago to advise on electric signalling. Ida
met him on shipboard when she was return-
ing from a schoolgirl “finishing" expedition
to Europe.
On Wednesday this week, at Melbourne
Grammar School Chapel, Dr. Lillie’s girl
Vera was due to marry Billy Blackwell.
Twin-sister Madge was cast for the role of
bridesmaid.
Professor Baldwin Spencer is now grand-
father. daughter Mrs. Young having pre-
sented the major-husband with a baby girl
in Scotland. The soldier-dad is busy
in France. Aunt Aline Spencer is going in
for flying, and is airing the cutest of avia-
tion clothes at Hendon.
At the Beatrice Day farewell benefit oil
Saturday at The Playhouse Lady Helen sat
in one of the latticed boxes behind* a bank
of beribboned almond blossom. Miss
Mandeville, the Tasmanian visitor with the
brilliant complexion, was with her. The
Sandersons filled the next pen with exciting
clothes and diamonds. (The society sheep
wired and ’phoned furiously for these smart
little boxes when they heard that dear Lady
Helen was going.) Lesley Madden arrived
furred to the eyes. Dr. Davenport was in
the circle with his daughter, and the
Dalrymples brought a big party. Statisti-
cian Knibbs held a good strategic position
in the front circle. The MeCubbins were
escorted by son Louis, who was on final
leave.
The programme was laid with three slices
of drama. Beatrice Day, Roy Redgrave
and Eardley Turner played the convincing
one-acter, “Naturalised.” Beatrice herself
appeared as Lady Schultz in golden hair
and mist-blue clothes, and got a tremendous
welcome. Gregan McMahon’s Repertory people
put on another Gertrude Robins playlet called
“Makeshifts,” and the third course was one
act from the dear old “Walls of Jericho.”
The playgoers sat tight after that course
and clamored for more until the Anthem
stood them up and wafted them out of the
theatre. The cast was fine and the work
brilliant. Beatrice Day had her old Brough
part. Beatrice Holloway was an adorable
little sister Lucy in a blue-grey frock. Big
sister had amber-tinted clothes with shoes
and ankles to match. If the same cast liked
to put up the whole of “The Walls,” they
might do a record run at the Playhouse.
It was a quaint idea to run in a sort of
suburban concert between the dramas. The
Magpie Orchestra (average age about 10)
played “selections” in short frocks with long
stockinged legs stowed away under the
chairs. One clever child played the trumpet
part in a “William Tell” outburst. She
looked like a wobbly Futurist sketch when
she got her plump rosy cheeks well inflated
inside its frame of long black hair decorated
on one side with a big bow of black-and-
white ribbon. Mrs. Summerliayes at the
piano wore a comfortable draught-proof
shawl, and daughter Gertrude fiddled furi-
ously with a muscular arm that was quite
bare up to the blue shoulder-straps of her
dress.
Sara Allgood (“Peg o’ My Heart”)
arrived in Melbourne on Friday and revelled
in one off-night in front of the curtain. She
chose “To-night’s the Night” for her holiday
in the manager’s box at Her Majesty’s and
wore a black frock with a black beauty spot
on her chin and a wreath of black velvet
leaves on her hair. Mrs. Frank Tait,
accompanying, wore pale rose pink, and the
attendant actor-men the usual black and
white. By the way, black and white is now
the popular scheme for a background. "To-
night’s the Night” works it into its chief
color schemes.
The Girls Who Stayed at Home are a
patriotic band of clever young amateurs
who give song-and-dance shows round the
subbubs. The money they earn has bene-
fited various patriotic funds, but their chief
objective is comforts for the fighting Aus-
tralian in the trenches. So far they have
made £lOOO out of 26 performances in town
and suburbs, and the country centres have
still to be worked. There are 10 prospective
performances on the engagement book. One is
to be at the St. Kilda-road 5 .M.C.A. “hut. ’
Another, timed for next week, at Brighton
Town Hall, is the final of four in aid of
the Bed Cross. Bumper houses are a habit
with the co. Last Friday they .filled Mal-
vern Town Hall with the suburban peerage,
headed by the Ileunessy dame. Mrs.
McKinley was organiser-in-cliief of the even-
ing. Mrs. Bert Cooke is travelling chap-
erone to the Girls, with whom are two
Geddes maidens, two Hills, Gwyn Watt
(clever enough for two), Lily. Morton
(accompanist), Vera Jackson, Daisy Gove
and Dorothy Maxwell.
Beatrice Day got news whilst in Mel-
bourne of the promotion and special men-
tion of her nephew, young Mapelson. He
ia the son of Dr. Mapelson, a well-known
London man. Beatrice is much related to
the medical profession and was a nurse
before taking to the boards.
Composer Arthur Chanter, bachelor of
music, is one of the few Melbourhe profes-
sionals who believe in getting back to nature.
Chanter does it in the Sandringham. rear
blocks, where he lives in an old-fashioned,
rustic dwelling on a quiet road—where vio-
lets grow under one’s bedroom window and
the magpie chortles in the black-wattle. Lest
he be mistaken for a poultry-farmer, how-
ever, the melody-founder has had a bold
sign planted among the rosemary and lo've-
l’es-bleeding. He and Randolph Bedford, by
the way, once collaborated in an opera and
had a beautiful time preparing it for the
stage; but the cash they didn't get out of it
would fill seven long-felt wants.
Some anonymous railway man donated
a line collection of walking-sticks to
the French Red Cross Fund. A Collins-
street window showed nearly a hundred of
them. They were cut from different Aus-
tralian hardwood and given a high polish by
the men at the Newport workshops. The
same patriots were busy for weeks making
metal and enamel souvenirs, which were
sold on Friday at the Railway stands. The
emblems were made in spare time, and there
were thousands out for sale at a shilling
each —or more if the pretty vendors could
get it. The cutest trifle was a tiny French
.75 gun. But there were also Joan-of-Arc
and Joffre medals, little metal sprigs of
wattle and the sort of flags fairy armies
might fight for.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


w
' : v^-
d
M
H
k
>
M
SI
w
y
Sf
m
• I
I
ii
r\
r\
a i
t
?
res
s
\2L
W
Q
p
III'" 'llll
y
PfyWli
M
TO
P
i
yj
Hi
III!


Keep Free
From Colds
by taking
Of all Chemists,
1/3. 2/9. 4/6.
To resist and repel colds, influenza, bron-
chitis, there is nothing better ihan a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. Its soothing, healing
effects and its tonic invigorating influence
upon all the bodily functions make it |
unequalled for the prevention of colds
and catarrhal affections. If the cold or
cough has already commenced, Angier’s
is the best means of throwing it off
and repairing the damage it has caused.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
h
ĥ
The TOPNOTCHScotcH
yC "SiyWHEN Man!!
*
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
the oyster joint.
.[For Thh Bulletin.]
I dreamed last night that I was horn
The Mighty King of the Peppercorn;
I dreamed I was the Cayenne Boss
The Mixed Spice Prince and Savory Joss.
My throne, I thought, on old fish rose,
But never a courtier held his nose ;
None hut I could prolong old steak,
Nor the taint of faded oyster fake.
No pepper grew beyond my State;
The crayfish stank outside my gate;
m But once he passed within my door
I fixed him well and he stank no more.
I held the code of Irish stew,
I mended meat the blow-fly blew ;
The oldest fish I turned to young,
I rescued tripe that time had stung.
And whilst I mused on State affairs,
A herald bellowed up the stairs:
“My liege, my liege, outside your walls
The Dago loud for pepper bawls.
“He offers you a quid a pound!”
“Ask thrice a quid, you snivelling hound,
For pepper is, O crazy loon,
The savior of the Fish Saloon.
“But stay, methinks our magic spice
Should bring to us a higher price;
Begone, and hurry up the job—
Our royal wish is eighty bob.”
And then I heard a Dago cry,
I felt his fork stick in my fry.
He yelled at me, “You want da bed?
Go to the hospital instead.”
He waked me up and broke my dream—
The mighty king and prince supreme
Of pepper goods was counted out
And Dagos saved from a pepper drought.
MAOllILAND. II. B.
* * * *
“Aislynn”: Jimmy Regan leant far back
in his chair and reflected. “There’s a lot in the
superstitions of these Malekula boys,” he said; and
the other traders nodded. “I was managing a place
for Captain Hansen near where Paddy died; and
after the burial I went over to see the tombstone—
a sort of cairn, with Paddy’s skull and shins inside
and a leaf dome with all sorts of offerings under it.
The skull stared uncannily at me through a chink,
and the natives, when they saw me touch the shrine,
fled in terror, leaving me alone in the forest gloom.
I was amazed at the beauty and liberality of the
offerings—ear-rings, nose-rings, armlets of clam-
shell, pearlshell carved and inlaid with tortoiseshell.
JACK’S AS DRY AS HIS MASTER.
BARMAN (to Jack, outside): “What’s your drink, Jack?”
JACK ( hearing loss order “two ales”): “Mine’s two rums, Boss”
A regular treasure-house it was. Then I gave one
shriek and rushed through the bush.” “W-w-vvhy,
what did you see?” gasped our newchuni. “I’ll
leave that for you to think over when I’ve finished
my yarn,” said Jimmy. “When I reached the boys
(and I did the distance in double-quick) I was
shaking and scared looking, but I gave them no
explanation, and to this day none go near the place.”
“But what ivos the” _ “Wait a bit until I’ve
finished; the really uncanny part of the yarn isn’t
reached yet. When I got home I feverishly tore
off every article of clothing and thrust the lot in the
bottom-most compartment of my trunk. Two days
later I left for Sydney on furlough; and whenever
I was in my cabin I felt that old King Paddy, too,
was on his travels. Ugh! It was true, for at
Sydney I found in the box the arm-rings, charms
and nose-rings just as I had seen, them at Point
Harsh, while gazing up at me, with its shin bones
crossed beneath it, was the skull of Paddy.” “But
how do you account” Paddy's eyes twinkled.
“I got seven guineas for the lot at the curio
dealer’s,” he said.
* * * *
“Channel” : There’s a lot of misapprehen-
sion about Corriedales. They have never been fixed
as a distinct type, for the simple reason that they
have been established variously from practically all
the leading British breeds, crossed with merino
ewes and not with Lincolns alone. Nevertheless,
sheepmen who had bred and culled for a few years
claimed them as pure-breds and applied for admis-
sion to the “Flock Book of British Breeds.” After
a painstaking search it was discovered that Maori-
land, where they originated, was not in Great
Britain, so the request was politely refused. Any-
way, as good a sheep in every respect can be pro-
duced by a first cross. It would be interesting to
mix a pen of Corriedales and best-quality first
crosses and get a breeder to pick them out —interest-
ing guess-work. To boil it down, the Corriedales
are only a much-boosted crossbred. (P.S.— I This is
where I apply for a license to carry a revolver.)
* * * *
“Campbell D.” : According to “L.E.” (B.
29/6/’l6), Professor Stirling, of Adelaide Museum,
has discovered boomerangs in Egypt and India, as
well as in Orstralia, and is wondering whether this
can be taken as an indication of some common
ancestry, or, at all events, inter-communication.
Dunno much about ethnology, but I do know that
boomerangs are even at the present time in common
use among the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico
(U.S.A.). These weapons were first referred to in
1539 by one Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, Esq., a
Spaniard who footed it through the New World for
nine years or so. He says the Pueblos “were armed
with weapons which they threw with astonishing
precision, and killed with them more hares than
they could consume When a hare is seen the
Indians surround and attack him with their clubs,
driving him from one to another till he is killed.”
Although repeating-rifles and six-shooters have re-
placed the boomerang for most purposes, the wooden
sleep-producer is still used whenever a rabbit drive
is held. Does this affect Professor Stirling’s wonder-
ing’s? New Mexico is a good step from India, Egypt
or Australia, and—speaking as one who doesn’t know
much about the subject—it doesn’t look likely to me
that the inhabitants of all four places were ever
nearly related —-at all events, not since Adam gath-
ered his family round him.
“Ela”: The brown brethren who inflict
themselves upon the pleasant land of New Guinea
are a primitive, evil-disposed, treacherous and cruel
type. From birth the young savage is systemati-
cally taught to have no compassion or mercy for the
unfortunate birds and animals that may fall into his
hands. Parrots and cockatoos are kept in nearly
every village for their feathers, and the job of care-
fully plucking the poor birds alive is always handed
over to the young people, who extract much simple
THE SET-OFF.
PIANDFORTE TUNER: “What’s this five bob for? I told you. my charge for tuning was
half a sov.”
C OCKY: “Ay, but yer forgetting mon, ye had yer denner.”
amusement with each feather they tear from their
screeching 1 victims. The docking of dogs’ tails and
the cropping of the dingoes’ ears are other forms
of innocent pleasure to the children. The pig, the
only thing in the whole universe for which the murky
wretches have any respect or affection, also comes in
for his share of torture. Any hog who blunders into
a garden more than once is blinded by having burn-
ing firestieks jambed into his eyes, and his tusks
knocked out as a hint that rooting in the village
compound is not allowed. When hunting wallaby the
men never kill the game outright if jt is possible to
catch it alive. The miserable ’roo when taken has
its legs broken neatly, and is left in agony as long
as Brown Brother pleases. An awful scoundrel
and ex-cannibal friend of mine says that the same
method of “preserving” man is followed in the in-
terior ; and one whitefellow, at least, has had this
awful experience. Werner, the American, who sought
for radium in the mountains behind Goodenough Bay
(Papua), was captured and his legs were fractured so
that his meat would remain fresh for several days
until the guests could arrive for the banquet. In
tribal fights among the sago-eating peoples of the
Gulf of Papua it is considered the essence of bravery
and good manners to bite your captive’s nose off
and cook and eat it before his eyes. This is sup-
posed to give the eater all the virtues of the ex-
owner of the property.
“Flinderino” :, The Fitzroy River crocodile
“Big Ben” measured 23ft. 6in., and, being an out-
size in amphibians, found its way to London. “Hinch-
inbrook” (B. 22/6/’l6) can rest assured that a
25-footer is a record breaker. The Johnstone River
has produced many fine specimens, but only in rare
instances were they over 18-footers. Crocodiles are
slow growers, and are probably a hundred years old
before attaining maturity. One authority allows 10
years for every foot of its length. About the coolest
crocodile-slayer I’ve come across is Jim South, a
young Queensland telegraph operator, once well
known in Normanton and Cairns as “Alligator
Jimmy.” Whilst stationed in the Fai;, North he
made a hobby of collecting crocodiles, using both
rifle and wire-rope traps, and he was out to beat Sid
Robinson’s tally, but an unsympathetic department
intervened by transferring him to Rockhampton,
where the big game is now mostly mosquitoes and
scrub-ticks. I helped Jimmy settle a few crocs,
around Cairns. We used dogs to bait the traps, and
the local papers made a good thing out of Lost,
Stolen or Strayed advts. After a time the supply of
hound gave out, and we used goats instead. There
were so many goats about that the few we took were
never missed.
“Pick”: I learnt the trick by watching
McClung, the packer champion at Connolly’s flour-
mill in Goulburn (N.S.W.). A very long and well-
curved packing-needle is used, and it is cork-
screwed full length, through and over alternately,
along the lips of the bag, the twine being drawn
with one pull at the finish. When the mill was at
high-pressure spilling- flour at the rate of up to 102
bags per hour, McQlung could keep the packer clear,
sew the bags and stack them, all on his lonesome.
Even then he had time now and then to mop his
brow and curse the luck that made him handy with
his fingers instead of with his tongue.
“Nobby”: On the Jilliby Creek, in the
Wyong district (N.S.W.), there is a blue-gum stump
that measures 25ft. 4in. around the top. After
three cuts of sleepers were dug off the tree it mea-
sured 20ft. 3in. Then the party gave up. It was
next tackled by another crowd, who made one cut.
Eighty-seven sleepers were got from this tree, and
enough was left for three more cuts. Timber-getters
find that very large trees don’t pay. There is
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTANDING.
CHATTY BARBER: “Not lookin’ too good at
the Front, sir.”
TIRED CUSTOMER: “See here, I came in to
have my hair cut —not to listen to
remarks about it.”
another blue gum in the district that was aban-
doned because it fell across the creek. It measured
90ft. in the barrel, and the average girth was
16ft. 6in. The longest tree that I know of was.
cut for mill logs. It measured 134 ft. to the first
branch, and was a blackbutt.
(Continued on page 24.)


Give Your...
Appearance a Lift
A Murdoch Suit will help
you wonderfully—come in
and let us convince you.
A Splendid Range of
New Season’s Suitings
Awaits Your Inspection
Call and inspect—you’ll find just the
material that suits your taste. “Murdoch”
Tailoring reaches the high-grade standard
—tit, style and finish are near perfection
mark. Unequalled value and practical
economy is assured at
63/«
Suit to
Measure.
We guarantee full satisfaction or return
your money.
LET US HAVE YOUR
ORDER NOW !
Write Desk R for patterns if you can't call
—fill in the coupon.
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch's In Parle Street Ltd.,
Sydney.
Please forward patterns of new season’s
suitings at 63/- Suit-to-measure, with
tape and self-measurement form.
NAME
ADDRESS
y
o>r
Op
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK
ST. LTD.,
Sydney
“Where the GOOD Hats are.”
FOLLOW THE LEADER
s
'
This is the name
of an old game.
However, many
people are still
following the
Leader. The big
Leaders draw the
crowd.
Nelson
Products
are all
Leaders,
and they
will
Draw Trade
to your
Fountain,
Because Nelson Products are made from full-grown fruits, the best nature produces.
Because Nelson Products are prepared so as to retain all the natural fruit flavor of choice
ripe fruit. This process is used and controlled exclusively by us.
Because Nelson Products are made under the most sanitary conditions and are pure and
wholesome. Our trade mark is “The Sign of Purity.’’
Nelson Products will also net you Greater Profits
for your Fountain,
Because Nelson Products represent the highest quality possible to attain —and you know
quality counts for much these days. Quality trade is the best-paying trade.
Because Nelson Products are highly concentrated and can be let down with a larger
quantity of simple syrup than any other brand. You can prove this yourself simply by
comparing them with other brands let down with the same amounts of simple syrup.
You will easily taste the difference.
Are you serving Nelson Products at your fountain this season? Truly, they are the Leaders.
Send us your order and we will supply you.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
The House of Quality J-
SYDNEY.
Algo at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
IlilliffiUlf
; v 5 ii
m
iv.w;asi
Wk
*g:c~
&
//_, 4
= K‘\Y
:-j
a
570
«=•
ZK
w.
J H P>RR \S
IS?®
.••i !;:#•.*
KUif: ,:.??:*!*
II s
Built in the
STEINWAY,
STECK,
STROUD
and
Famous
WEBER
PIANOS.
Sit here
-at the Pianola Piano
and play the world’
greatest music.
HIGHEST efficiency comes of relaxation and recreation
which bring* yon to your work with a refreshed mind,
clear eyes, heightened interest and inspiration. No
business man—nor woman —needs a physician to tell him that!
And of all recreations, the most adaptable, the most
universal in its appeal, is Music.
The man or woman of business who seeks wholesome,
inspiring, truly vitalizing relaxation, will find it in this
most elemental of arts.
Music is as available to you as to the skilled and talented pianist. Physical restrictions
are set aside, and the wonder of expression in music is made through
The PIANOLA PIANO
II 1 ite to us for Catalog B, in which we give full particulars of prices , terms , etc.
The Pianola Company,
384 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
c°
V
MORRISs
IMPERIAL
ointmen*
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores
The CHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Ring's in £)ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store. 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
ħ
Support the Motherland’s Industries
—and your own Country’s Products
4*
MHwaWi
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are manufactured from pure Australasian wool—
in Leicester, England, by workpeople who have
inherited the art from generations of the world’s
best hosiery makers.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. * See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng. „
Aa 60 <f>
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident § Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“\ igilans”: The most intrepid wheel-
barrow shover in the bush was Joe Bagshaw
(“Wheelbarrow Joe”). He had pushed his barrow
over most of Australia before he essayed to navigate
the vehicle from Boulia (Q.) to Victoria Downs
(N.T.). After shoving across the Barkly tableland,
where there are 30-, 40- and 50-mile dry stages, he
reached Newcastle Waters. It was in August, when
there is a 90-mile dry stage on what is known as
the Murangie track. Notwithstanding this Joseph
decided t.o propel his barrow across the semi-desert.
He took water, flour and tea, and started away
merrily with two kerosene tins of liquid and a quart
bag. His remains were found by Walter Rose,
the well-known drover, 10 miles from the water,
which was then only a mud pond, where a howling
mob of dingoes camped beside the carcases of several
bullocks. The spot where Bagshaw died is marked
by the kerosene tins fastened on posts. The Murangie
track from the downs to the overland telegraph line
i 3 looked upon as the “dead finish.” The country
is mostly sand, and water lasts only a few weeks
after heavy rain.
* * * *
“E.S.S.” : A case in which a trapper was
trapped by the rabbits occurred the other day at
Balliang, near Bacchus Marsh (Vic.). J. P. Ryan, one
time professional boxer, put ferrets into a burrow
leading from a dugout he had made, and was
collecting the scared inhabitants when the stampede
loosened a heavy stone at the entrance to the
warren. Then other stones were released, and sud-
denly there was a fall that buried the trapper up
to the neck. He had a greyhound with him, but
the dog didn’t understand anything about going for
help, as dogs do in picture-shows. So there was
nothing to do but study the scenery and wait for
a chance comer. That was on Thursday, and just
when things were becoming monotonous on Sunday
the luck turned, but it took the stranger half an
hour to extricate the prisoner. Geelong Hospital
was the next item on the programme.
“Barcoo”: To-day the up-to-date cattle
ranch in Queensland and the Territory works with
the lasso, and the old and expensive stockyard is
used as firewood. The advantage of the lariat is
unquestionable. All kinds of stock, more especially
cattle, when allowed to roam unfettered by fences,
take to a certain run of country and will stick to it
for years. The head-stockman knows all the resorts,
and when the time comes for branding-up and mark-
ing the young calves he chooses a clear patch of
ground near the watering place of the particular run
of cattle he intends to attack, sticks in a hauling-up
post, collects the animals as they come in to drink,
and moves camp to the next favorable place. The
advantage is obvious. The cattle are not knocked
about as they would be if they were driven to a yard
perhaps 30 miles away and then starved for a couple
of days. Also, the building of cattle-yards on a
large station is a most expensive item. The man
with the new ideas carries his stockyard hung - to the
horn of his Mexican-model saddle. Davenport Downs,
Diamantina (W.Q.), with a herd of 45,000, will
have no yards. The boss learnt his business pro-
perly at Carlton Hills (S. Aus.), where the manager
has, or had, nothing but a horse-yard on the place,
lie had been in the Argentine and Mexico, where a
stockyard could not be found on the outside ranches
in. a radius of 500 miles.
THE LACK OF OPPORTUNITY.
S HE: “Oh, I do wish I could get away.
It is so frightfully dull at home. Poor
father is quite paralysed, and mother is
nearly blind, and I’m sure I’d make a
splendid nurse if I only had a chance."
URGENT.
TEACHER: “Well, what’s the matter now?"
SMALL BOY: “Please I’ve swallered Brown’s conny agate, an' he wants it back."
“D.F.”: About eagles’ wings and
“A.A.B.’s” doubts (B. 6/7/T6). He says that Dr.
Leach, an eminent authority, asserts that there is no
authentic record of an eagle having shown a larger
spread than 7ft., and asks for undoubted evidence of
one having been found with a wing-spread of Bft.
or over. All I can say is that when the tape was
put over an eagle my brother snared in the Sorell
(Tas.) district it went Bft. 6in. from tip to tip.
But if “undoubted evidence” means the bird, I’m
sorry, but it’s past producing now.
**■ * *
“Bex”: Spider-web for wounds isn’t the
only silly superstition that dies a hard death. Axle-
grease is also recommended by the bush faculty, and
not long since I met a trusting brother making for a
doctor 100 miles away with a poisoned arm due to
using the alleged specific. Two years ago another
goat tried the same cure. Nan is now a widow.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: The black and white snake
found hereabouts (Tonga), althpugh harmless, has
the poison fangs well developed and furnished with
hollow tubes, which, instead of leading into sacs, ter-
minate in the jawbone. In the hazy past when the
saurians disported in the mud of Atlantis this chap
might have been equipped with a potent defence.
Either that or he is not done with evolution. The
young are reared in rock crevices on the beach. I
have met more in the sea than ashore. Their move-
ments in water are slow, although they drag their
six oi- seven feet of length through the bush at the
regulation gait.
* * * *
“Nomad”: “X.Y.” was a bit wide of the
mark in his recent explanation of the poisonous
character of Johnson grass when eaten green by
stock. His theory, if correct, would apply to most
green plants, as they all contain starch cells in
greater or less number. The fact is that Johnson
grass is a species of sorghum, and like all members
of this genus contains a cyanoge'netie glucoside; in
other words, a substance which is capable of produc-
ing prussic acid under the action of the digestive
juices. When the plant is young the glucoside is
present in large quantities, but it gradually dis-
appears, until, after the vegetable flowers, it has
practically all gone. You can feed at this stage with
safety. Nitrous ether in small doses, either intro-
duced per mouth (internally) or per skin (hypo-
dermic injection), is a sure cure if given not more
than an hour after the sorghum in its poisonous
stage is taken. There is no excuse for growing John-
son grass now that its near relation Sudan grass
can be obtained. This latter is also one of the
sorghum tribe, being a cross between Johnson grass
and amber-cane sorghum, with all the advantages of
the Johnson, but without the creeping underground
stems which render it so difficult to eradicate. For
the benefit of those who have the Johnson and wish
to get rid of it by some other means than the back-
breaking method of grubbing it out, it is said that
if one has the patience to allow the stems to flower
and then cut them the plant will weaken and die.
“Beeritus”: As one of the bloques referred
to by “Yancy” (B. 22/6/16) who throw colts for
castration purposes, I would, with all humility, beg
to disagree with him. A colt .standing on its feet is
in absolutely the wrong position. I will go further
than that, and challenge “Yancy” or any other vet.
or quack to perform a successful operation on a colt
in that position. As for the mask, I’ll admit that
it has its uses for saddling or handling a bad
animal, but it won’t prevent it from kicking your
head off if you take undue familiarities with the
hinder parts. Peter Rankine got his brains strewn
over the rails of the stockyard through trusting a
mule in that position, and Peter knew horses better
than most men know their wives. Also, let me say
that the emasculation cannot be done in a jiffy, as
stated by “Yancy,” even with the latest and most
up-to-date instrument—that is, if you don’t want a
dead colt on your hands. On further consideration, I
think “Yancy” must have been referring to dead
colts.
The brown brethren at Petane settlement,
Hawkes Bay (Petane is Maorified Bethany), unveiled
a fine monument the other day and wired into roast
porker in honor of one of the rude forefathers of the
hamlet, Henare Pohio. When the proper incan-
tations had been made the tribe selected a man whom
they christened Kohatu, meaning “stone," to
represent the tomb of deceased and to go on tour
from kainga to kainga “carrying the tears,” as John
Maori puts it. Wherever Kohatu goes he will be the
object upon which the tribespeople will expend their
keenings. Incidentally, he will gather in, as per
custom, gifts of sorrow galore, greenstones and
mats, five-pound notes and fat pigs, ponies and pipit
and maybe a bouncing new wahine or two. The job
has some drawbacks, for a bush tangihanga in full
blast is something to avoid, but it has its solid com-
pensations, and it means a good 12 months’ fat living
at the very least. Mr. “Stone” of Bethany, taking
it all round, is on a good foundation.
•*■ ***
“Barcoo”: “Quandong” (B. 15/6/T6) is
barking up the wrong tree when he condemns electric
shearing plants. Similar objections were loud in the
land when Wolseley machines were installed for the
first time on Dunlop (N.S.AV.), and although the
invention was going to make the barber’s cheque 50
per cent, easier to get, and increase his daily average
by from 40 to 50 sheep, his bleating was loudest. The
proof that electric gear is the thing and has come to
stay is that in nearly every instance in Queensland
where new gear is installed it is electric. The sav-
ing in lubricant alone for a 50-stand shed for the
headgear is not to be sneezed at, to say nothing of
the wearing apparel destroyed by the dripping from
the headgear when the temperature is high and the
oil thin. Electrics require no headgear and no oil,
nor a man with a can busy an hour before starting.
At Clarke and Whiting’s Isis Downs (C.Q.), 50
electrics have been running for three years, and if
“Quandong” wishes to see the wool peeled off a
quarter of a million monkeys in less than eight
weeks, just wire me and I’ll guarantee him a stand.
He will also see the best shearers in Australia.
There are nine million sheep in the two adjoining
districts, and English, French, Japanese and American
buyers plump for it as the world’s best-treated wool.
* * * *
“Bex”: The Jensen (hot water) method
of treating grain for smut as advocated by “X.Y.”
may be all right in theory, but it is not practicable
for the man on the land. The efficacy of the treat-
ment depends on the water being maintained at a
temperature between 130 and 134 deg. F. (below
130 deg. will not kill the burnt spores, and above 134
will kill the wheat germ), and there are very few
farms tllat have the necessary conveniences to keep
the water within this very narrow range of tem-
perature. Smut, or more correctly speaking bunt,
can be readily controlled by either bluestone or
formalin, but, as the latter is more subject to adul-
teration (it is on record that formalin sold in
Victoria one year contained only 2 per cent, for-
maldehyde instead of 40 per cent, required in com-
mercial formalin), first place must be given to blue-
USED TO WILD LIFE.
LONDON C ITIZEN: “I suppose, note, you
would be accustomed to dealing with
wild characters at home?"
ANZAG: “My word! The boss in our office
used to be something awful if you
turned up a bit late in the morning."
stone (copper sulphate). In using this a 1 per
cent, solution of copper sulphate (lib. bluestone to
10 gals, water) is effective, provided care be taken
to see that every grain is wetted. There are pick-
ling machines on the market, but the price is high
for the use they get. The method generally
employed is to immerse about a bushel of wheat
for a few minutes in the solution, which should be
in a wooden or copper vessel, and well shaken to
ensure wetting every grain. Grain will give a
better germination if pickled with bluestone some
time before sowing. Should the seed be badly
affected with bunt the strength of the solution may
be increased to 1J per cent. (111 b. bluestone to 10
gals, water).
THE CELESTIAL CAB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The streets were full of dancing stars;
The buildings skipped by in a row;
I hailed, at times, some passing bars
And drank a hundred drinks or so.
I had no need to be conveyed ;
No weariness was in my feet;
The world changed for me, while I strayed,
From Martin Place to Oxford-street.
For cabs I, therefore, had no need;
But in a cab I chanced to see
I climbed, with crays on which to feed,
Because I thought it wanted me.
The horse sprang upward with a bound;
The cab soared high as if on wings ;
From far above the common ground
I sprayed the world with claws and things.
Our flight the sleepy stars awoke;
The wheels in silver circles twirled ;
And, while the scarlet shells I broke,
We travelled twelve times round the world.
But ere the thirteenth lap began
I heard a husky word or so,
And, looking upward, saw a man
Who asked me gruffly where to go.
I said he might, perhaps, try Spain,
Although I did not care, at all;
But speed I urged him to maintain
Lest, losing leeway, we should fall.
Yet he would argue from aloft
On matters that had little worth,
Till, with a jolting far from soft,
We landed, somewhere, on the earth.
Then demons in my vision leapt
Who talked of cash. As mine was gone
I turned my face away and slept,
And while I snored they argued on.
This morn, upon my bed I woke
With cray-claws braided in my hair,
And vague ideas that someone spoke
Hot words about a paltry farel
N.s.W.
HAMER.


BLACK <a WHITE
i ft
THE BLACK WATCH.
WHISKY


That Awful
Agonising'
h
7?
111
Oh!
my Back
Backache means one thing and one thing only —Kidney Trouble which is most cer-
tainly on the increase. Thousands and thousands of people in the towns and \illages of this,
country are in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease, if they only knew and realised it.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradually getting a firmer and firmer grip, until when
it is too late the poor sufferer discovers he has Bright s Disease. Have you kidney trouble?
Do you know how to recognise whether you are suffering from this or not ?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney disease: Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness and irritability, puffiness under the eyes —these'
are all
Symptoms of Kidney Trouble
And then people who suffer from backache, rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gia\el, stone
or pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are weak and diseased. They need strengthen-
ing and making healthy.
Don't waste a single hour. Go at once, and get a box of De A Kidney and
Bladder Pills, which are made expressly for kidney and bladder troubles. They will cure
every one of the above symptoms no matter how long or how badly you have suffered.
To cure Kidney Trouble of any kind you must positively get rid of the cause—the
poisonous Uric Acid. Remember, to do this, a real remedy must pass through the kidneys
arid the bladder and not through the bowels, as most kidney pills do. W ben you see the
urine change to a muddy, bluish color—a feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that they have put their healing touch on the right spot
—the kidneys and the bladder. And the cost is so small; Do not put off, because weak lnd-
nevs very often mean Bright’s Disease in the end, and then it will be too late Be wise m
time. But when you buy the pills be sure you get DE WITT’S, in large, white boxes printed
in blue and gold—with a blue wax seal on the top of the bottle. Refuse any of similar name
without this special seal.
De Witt’ s Kidney Bladder Pills
•_ „ a »nini> i)k Witt’s Pills with the blue seal on cork
OX chemists and storekeepers every where, 2/9 and 5/G per box. If you have any difficulty in g et ‘‘“S * . „ )lv by return.
—send your money to E. C. De WITT & Co., Ltd., 42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladlj supply oy letuin.
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 190 S. . £1957 12 p.e. = £9OO £1057 £14,465
June, 1909.. 1507 10 „ „ 750 757 15,222
Dec., 1909.. 1421 12 „,, 900 521 15,743
June, 1910.. 1351 10 „ „ 750 601 16,344
Dec., 1910.. 1913 12 ~ ~ 900 1013 17,357
June, 1911.. 1826 10 „ „ 750 1076 18,433
Dec., 1911.. 1907 12 ~ ~ 900 1007 19,440
-.'mo j 1838 10 „„ 750 1088 I-,-™
June, 1912..-j 'p rans f erre d to capital, £5OOO ( ’
Dec., 1912.. 1732 12 p.c. = 1200 532 16,060
June, 1913.. 1528 10 „ „ 1000 528 16.588
Dec., 1913.. 1758 12 „ „ 1200 558 17,146
June, 1914.. 1610 10 „,, 1000 610 17,756
Dec., 1914.. 1878 12 „ „ 1200 678 18,434
June, 1915.. 1488 10 „ „ 1000 488 18,922
Dec., 1915.. 1679 12 „ „ 1200 479 19,401
June, 1916.. 1503 10 „ „ 1000 503 19,904
When a trustee c-o. lias waited long enough
for a few good clients to die, there are not
many little investments of capital that show
a better return. Nominally the shareholders
have put £20,000 into this business; actually
the business itself supplied £5OOO only
four years ago, and it is nearly ready
to supply another £5OOO. On the old
£15.000. the profit is now at the rate
of 30 p.c. p.a.; and practically there is no
risk of principal —all but a very few pounds
of capital and reserves are in public securi-
ties. Certainly the co. might be compelled
to pay up if it did something very wrong in
connection with a trust estate ; but when in
doubt it can almost always protect itself
by asking either the Court or the interested
parties for directions. And, though it is
quite possible that trustee cos. may have to
do more for their living by-an'd-bye, it seems
almost certain that their business will grow.
There is every reason, too, why it should
grow, while the business of the inexpei .
unprofessional, unsecured and unguaranteed
private executor and trustee dwindles.
**. * *
“D.F.” on the Tasmanian hydro-power
schemes
“Buckley’s” remarks on the water-power of the
Tasmanian Great Lake deserve attention. He is
right in saying that some wild nonsense has been
talked about the rainfall of the Great Lake region.
There has never been more than one rain-gauge on
the drainage area of the lake or close handy to it;
that one is kept where the Shannon runs out of the
lake. Its record averages about 30in. a year, or a
good way below the 45in. “Buckley” allows. But
there is good reason to suppose it rains more on the
western side of the lake and at the northern end than
it does at the southern end, though nobody knows
how much more, and all the statements made about it
are mere guesses. A good deal of the precipitation, by
the way, is in the form of snow, and maybe the lain-
fall records miss a bit of it. They are now doing
what should have been done long ago, putting rain-
gauges around the lake to try to find out what the
fall really is. But while it has yet to be proved
whether the lake is good for 75,000 h.p., enough has
been done to show that it is equal to a lot more
than the 16,400 e.h.p. which “Buckley’s” formula
would give it. A dam very soon raised the level of
the lake by lift., which means pounding up a big
body of water, seeing that the original area of the
lake was 42 square miles, now increased to nearly
50. And the water it takes to run the present
10,000-h.p. plant is only a fraction of what is avail-
able. Personally I think that to get the 75,000 h.p.
the lake’s catchment area would have to be increased
by the diversion ot' the Upper Ouse, but that would
be comparatively easy. The Lake Margaret scheme
gives a line on the possibilities ot the Great Lake.
There they have been delivering 5000-6000 h.p. for
about two years with a catchment area of only eight
square miles and a lake of 370 acres. The fall and
the head of water at the power station are very much
the same as at the Great Lake, but the rainfall at
Lake Margaret is about 150 in. per year. It leads the
Great Lake there ; but its catchment area is only about
l-25th of the other’s, and its reservoir is not l-50tli
the size of the Great Lake, though it’s a lot deeper.
On the face of it, the big scheme ought to be
good for 35,000 or 40,000 h.p. without the Ouse, and
it is reckoned the Ouse would double it, though
that’s mostly guesswork so far.
* * * *
“E.D.”: Senator Pearce has been prevailed
upon to announce that the Commonwealth is
short of metallurgists. As a matter of fact,
for years past the profession has been so
overcrowded that most Schools of Mines
graduates fail to obtain a job in the line
for which they were trained. On Kal-
goorlie’s Golden Mile alone, over 50 qualified
chemists are doing pick and shovel work,
while in Perth and other Westralian centres
dozens are serving behind counters or keep-
ing books in commercial establishments. The
same story could be told of the eastern
States. The trouble with the profession is
that ever since Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie
became great metal-producing centres, Aus-
tralian schools have turned out too many
assayers, etc., while a good many have
flocked hither from other parts of the world.
An announcement siich as that just made is
a fine thing for slackers, and I hope the
Minister won’t make any more of the same
kind about other professions, trades, or call-
ings without thorough inquiry.
Nowadays the doings of the Sand Queen
(W.A.) is wrapped in mystery. For-
merly the management used to publish pro-
gress reports, announce monthly returns
and advertise dividends. Even its half-
yearly meetings, attended by two or three
of the controllers and the same number of
dummies, used to be mentioned in the
papers. Now’ nothing concerning' it is
allowed to leak out. One explanation given
is that the reef lias gone w’rong at depth, but
probably the silence is due to the fact that
in the West it pays best for a mining co.
doing well to keep its mouth shut.
Leonora (W.A.) has regained some of its
old-time activity. Several new cos. have
recently settled in the district, and all reckon
that they are going to do well. African Ex-
ploration Syndicate is at work on the Auck-
land lode, from which the previous owners
are reputed to have got about £2500 worth
of gold. The Melbourne-financed Gold Blocks
Co. is developing a body which is declared to
average well over 80s. per ton; a Perth
crowd is toying with the Harbor Lights;
and the London-controlled Gwalia Central
Corporation never misses a week without
finding something. Yet, in spite of all this,
the Sons of Gwalia went, elsewhere to look
for a new property; and all that co. doesn’t
know about the field isn’t worth much. The
once live, but now almost dead, centres of
Kookynie and Niagara are also getting a
little new capital. The flotation of the
McTavisli is being engineered in Melbourne,
the disabled Butterfly is tipped to be on the
wing again shortly, and some of the leases
that the old Cosmopolitan Co. abandoned are
being equipped. Another show which settled
the London Orion Co. is also being spoken of
.as a likely thing, but it has already adminis-
tered one lesson to speculators.
The winter is no friend of old-age pen-
sioners, and in June 920 of them went to a
place where pensions are not paid. But 813
others got old enough to qualify for the
dole.’ so there wasn’t much difference in the
total. The Commonwealth’s babies are get-
ting less numerous, or else people don’t want
the bonus (which latter isn’t likely), for
there were only 133,430 allowances granted
for the financial year ended on June 30,
while for the year before there were 138,188.
“Rule Britannia Smith’’: Of course, there
will'he a job for the returned Anzac. Look
at this clipping from the South Coast
Times (N.S.W.)
MUNICIPALITY OF NORTH ILLAWARRA.
Caretaker and Librarian.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons, married,
for the position of Caretaker and Librarian at the
Council Chambers, Fairy Meadow. Salary £5 per
annum and residence. Preference will be given
returned soldiers.
But I think they ought to limit it to V.C.’s.
A Melbourne inspector asked a suspected
milk-vendor for a sample of his goods, and
he curtly refused to supply one. For this
pleasantry the law provides a penalty of
“not more than £20,” but it says nothing
about “not less than,” so when the hono-
rariums were asked to fix the amount they
said “One shilling, without costs.” The
local Council failed to appreciate this jest
and asked the Attorney-General to treat the
matter seriously. But Lawson regretted
that he couldn’t. If the penalty had been too
severe he could have lowered it or remitted
it altogether, but he couldn’t raise it one
bean. All he could do was to promise the
honorariums something if they acted in that
fashion again. Which is quite satisfactory
to the ‘ Milky-ohi
“Bram”: The first recorded lajbor organ-
isation in Australia was foaled in 1837, when
some seamen and rouseaboufs in Sydney
demanded an increase of Is.'per day 6n the
3s. they were being paid. The shipowners
at once issued a manifesto in which it was
proclaimed that “the demand for increase of
wages does not arise from scarcity of seamen
or laborers or from inadequacy of wages,”
but had been made by “a systematic, organ-
ised body, whose intentions are not yet fully
developed, but whose object, if accomplished,
would materially retard the progressive ad-
vancement of our colonial marine.” A strike
followed and vessels were detained for some
days. This was Australia’s first strike
between organised parties. Last year there
were 358, of which N.S.W. enjoyed 272. It
is the March of Progress—or something
equally riotous.
The yell against “Germans” being allowed
to do this or that in Australia is damaged,
for practical purposes, by the absence o
any definition of how long a person o
German descent is to have it counted agams
him. The rough-and-ready general rule is to
go by the name —which means that the
descendants in the male line remain Germain
for ever, while the children of the daughters
are in one generation above suspicion. >' 11-
son, Labor M.L.C. of S. Aus. has at least
given the Port Adelaide AH British
League something definite to bark over. 1 e
would have “all persons of German birth and
parentage, to the third generation of Ai -
tralian born, disallowed ownership of land in
Australia.” Wilson’s rule, besides making it
extreme]v uncomfortable for ‘the Grown,
would disqualify many who have actually
gone to the Front on our side, particularly ni
his own State. The German influx to S.
Aus. was strongest between 1840 and loou.
The youngster who came then had a family
in the ’oo’s. The first generation of Aus-
tralian-born may have kept up the old tradi-
tion, but tlie second generation is generally
sound Australian, and the case for the third
is stronger still.
From Adelaide Critic (21/6/T6) :
It may be the intention of the Ministry to select
Inspector Edwards [for the job of police superin-
tendent] merely for the term of 12 months, and then
go abroad for a first-class, up-to-date officer, either
from England or America. AVe genuinely believe
that this will be found to be the better policy in
the long run.
God help Australhy The country that pro
duced the Anzacs can’t produce a policeman.
“Haka” : The fact that the Maori and the
pakelia are both natives of Maoriland is
causing the Frenchman more worry than the
war. On a recent occasion Henare cleared
the atmosphere a little with the following
explanation: “Py korry, tat te easy—te
pakelia porn in te day time ; te night I porn
it te plurry well pitch dark.”
“Alpha” : I can take “TAXI.” to one more
of the eight church bells that were presented
to St. Philip’s, Sydney, by George 111. in
1807. It is hung in St. Matthias’s Church
of England, Bombala (N.S.W.), and is call-
ing the good girls and boys to choir practice
as I write this. The oldest _ inhabitant
doesn’t know when St. Matthias’s was first
opened, but it must have been close on 60
years ago. When I first struck Bombala,
36 years since, the bell was in the place it
occupies to-day, and old records state that
when St. Philip’s got its new peal one of
the original eight was sent here. It still
retains its clear, mellow tone, and on a calm
evening one has difficulty in not hearing it
at a distance of. over three miles.
The good old conservative Hobart Mer-
cury is burning all its old josses. The other
morning it lighted on to the evils of land
monopoly at the following high rate of
speed:—
In point of fuel, English constitutional usage is
against absolute property in land itself. Land and
its minerals are possessed subject to the prior rights
of the community, which must not be imperilled by
any pedanticism in this or any other matter.
And now what has the Mercury got to say
why the sauce for the goose in Britain isn’t
sauce for the gosling in Australia?
A WINTER NIGHT IN SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
x.s.w.
No good the hour ;
No use the friendly voice.
Was’t yesterday the flower
Did me rejoice?
To-night the mist enwraps,
And all is drear and grey.
Had I but —yes, perhaps,
’Twill run to gin and ’cray.
THE SNAKE.


gigg
d
dL
■■ iiKi
Hi
n
V .— : v
■**..' ■. •
- ■■
, i -
:
j
■ .
*g
Hi
*■ ;
3368
VT*
\
c
* -
id
JpABROIL GEARS are silent, and with this
is coupled a remar liable degree
of strength and durability.
Silence and endurance are always associated
with FABROIE GEARS. The strong, tough,
resilient teeth of Fabroil Gears are practically
untouched when iron or brass have already
yielded to strain and wear and have to be
replaced. Write us for Particulars.
n
0
Mazda House, Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.)! The Engineering tlnnniir /•>
PERTH 1 E I W r rd and Stra
PERTH (W.A.). Chas. Atkms & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE— CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
(S,A,): Unbeh »un & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street
NBA! ZEALAND: The Pfntionn l Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.]
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston;
Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Luminous
Radium Dial Wristlet,
Watch, Solid Silver Case, Fi ll
Jewelled Lever Movement, £3,
£3/10/- Gold Filled, £4/10/-
Solid Gold, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
Kept in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Bat-
talion Color
Signet Bing,
25/-. Lady’s size,
21/-
A. Saunders’ Double-case Solid
Silver Hunting Keyless Watch,
full chronometer balance, patent non-
magnetic time-spring, accurate and reli-
able, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4, £5; Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £lO.
Kept in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
set Diamonds and Peridots, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Three
Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones, 20/-
A. Saunders’
9 c t. Gold
Ring, set Beauti-
ful Cameo, 157-
Other styles,
10/-, 12/6.
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
King, set Double-
cut Diamond,
£2/10 j- Larger
Diamond, £3,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Solid' Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring,
9ct., 15/-
15et„ 30/-
18ct., 35/-
Gent.’s 9ct.,
22/6;
15ct., 40/-
18ct., 50/-
A. Saunders’
15c t. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls or Aquama-
rines, £5/10/-
All Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Ring, set flve
pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold Dia-
mond Cluster
Bins, £l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and
Platinoid Brooch, set Diamonds and
Ruby, £5.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Eing, set pure,
double-cut Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Three Bar,
Diamond Cluster Brooch, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise, 25/-
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG POST FREE.
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Brooch, set Diamonds and
or Sapphires, 25 / -
Gold
Rubies
4
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Gipsy Setting
Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£5/10/-,
£7/10/-,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Patent Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, Full Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, accurate and reliable, £7/10/- 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-, £l5. Other Grades, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
«9E
A;
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and Platinoid
Brooch set Diamonds, Pearls and Aquamarine,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’
15c t. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Claw
Set King, set
Garnet, 25/-
15ct., 40/-
18ct., 50/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Scroll
Brooch, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2/10/-
All Diamonds, £5,
A. SAUNDERS,
Jewelßer, BDS GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Ogp. Railway Station)
n
2
9
4
8
A. Saunders’ Military
Wristlet Watch, Nickel or
Gunmetal Case, Jewelled Lever
Movement, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-.
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
Solid Gold, £4/10/-, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding
Ring,
9ct., 20/-
15ct., 25/-
18ct., 30/-
Heavier, 40/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold,
Wedding
Ring,
9ct., 10/-,
15ct., 15/-
18ct., 20 /-,
Heavier, 30/-
a. Saunders’ Special Non-mag-
netic Open-face Lever Watch,
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof, pat
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof,
patent adjusted balance, 20/-, 25/-,
30/-. Guaranteed for 20 years and
kept in free repair one year.
ĥ
ħ
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/“* Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OP PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
h
If any illustration appearing in Tue
Bulletin takes your .Taney, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
a^VROA;
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfie id
testified to the benefits he received from Him*
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post bring.'
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
tkroitzhout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engraving's, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. tlow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life. 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ AVorksiiop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow's Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Sd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
sss=
B
I
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds ot young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable mte -
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a ve y
superior guide to the action of men and women both in an
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a hug
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sen ,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in i
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will h? P
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
3HT~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ““•!
Prop. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOYE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang ov
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers Handy-
book 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannans Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
_ v nrirps with others and save
yoTr cash 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA
BE GOT FROM
♦-
OF MY STOCK CAN
THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
II- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post- Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-- All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Sd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
8d 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather, bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas.).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2 Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
i / post 900 Old-Time Songs (words and music
comp ete) 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
PaTne, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres EUi.
Governing Director .... HUGH I). McINIOSII.
>|*l VOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
\ MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
yiYOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
LEIGHTON & KENNEDY, O’DONNELL & BLAIR,
OS-KO-MON, JACK & FORIS, FLOYD, MACK &
MABELLE, EVELYN CUNNINGHAM, VANDINOFF
A- LOUIE, GRACE HANSON, NORTON & EARL,
LOOSE & STERLING, ROSE BERRY, and CARDO
& NOLL.
Plan at Glen's.
E K MA J EST Y’S. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF OUR MISS GIBBS.
SATURDAY NEXT.
THE BELLE OE NEW YORK
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HALE HAMILTON, MYRTLE TANNEHILL and
■I. C. WILLIAMSON’S Clever Company of Comedians
in the reigning success of London and New York,
THE BOOMERANG,
A deliglitfill Three-act Comedy.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales AVhite Rose.
I IT TEE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ Commencing
THURSDAY (TO-NIGHT), JULY 27, and continuing
SATURDAY, TUESDAY, THURSDAY EVENINGS.
SIGNALLER TOM SKEYHILL,
The Blind Soldier-Poet, Author of “Soldier-Songs
front Anzac” (35th thousand), in his Graphically-
illustrated War-Story,
“WITH THE AUSTRALIANS AT ANZAC’’
(the Story of the Landing at the Dardanelles).
PRIVATE BOBBY PEARCE (the Singer from the
Trenches). Popular Prices. Plans at Paling’s.
w.
BARRINGTON MILLER, Managing-
Union Theatres Limited, presents the
Director
new
ĥ
T RIAN OLE PLAYS AT
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.in., 2 p.ni.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 63.. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNIOX PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p,m.
PRICES: Sd. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
IV. Dario not ox Miller, Managing Director.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J» C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
TO-NIGHT’S THE NIGHT.
A BRILLIANT NEW MUSICAL PLAY.
Plan at Allan's. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THE ATIt E ROY A U, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
ROMANCE.
The Outstanding Success of the 1915-1916 Dramatic
Season in England and America.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Sole Proprietors: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 29.
GEO. MARLOW presents the GONSALEZ ITALIAN
OPERA CO. in FAUST
LA TRAVIATA (Matinee).
Monday (July 31), CAVALLF.RIA AND PAG-
LIACCI ; Tuesday (August 1), CARMEN; Wednes-
day, CARMEN (AIDA, Matinee) ; Thursday, RIGOL-
ETTO ; Friday, MIGNON.
Popular Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBO U R N E.
Lessees BERT lUILKV V JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING.
Jft N.TA'lts NEW INUISH C?:
PEC,
o'm Y
H
A CO M E DY O FYOUTH
by HARTLEY MANNERS.-
THE SU PREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES*
V
Box Plans now open at Allan’s.
TP H E PLAY H O U S E
■ (Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne).
The Gregan McMahon REPERTORY COMPANY in
E. H. Oliphant’s Play,
THE SOP ER 10 It RACE,
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 29.
Also Wed., August 2, and Sat., August 5.
THREE NIGHTS ONLY. Box Plan at Glen’s.
FAULKNER-SMITH Direction.
I J O U T H E A T It E, MELBODBNR
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
TSUDA, CORRIGAN & VIVIAN, CHRIS RICH-
ARDS, MEREDITH & ADNIL, DOROTHY HARRIS,
THE LA MERTS, HARRINGTON REYNOLDS,
PHIL PERCIVAL, FREDO BOYS, & THE TWO
CALEYS.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, MatinSes: 1/6, 1/- and 60.
ALACIABICM, MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
O Y T’S
T W
Amusements.
PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
O BIG SHO W S.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Koval.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
|
MO^ 0
00
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You'll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Amusements.
BI K C H & C AB Ii Oli L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba tc
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
vs
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do .you
open the case than
3'ou drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9<l.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 Oeorge Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
ħ
Dinneford's
Magnesia I
h
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD'S"
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
ĥ
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
\e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
V
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. T C. TROEDSOX. Director.
It acts like a e/iarnz!
5V
All who desire better health, brighter
spirits, more vitality and energy, should try
a course of VITAFER. It skilfully combines
all that is required to renew the physical and
nervous energ’es so quickly used up in modern life.
It is the quickest restorative in all cases of mental
exhaustion, and the physical condition described as “ below
par. ’ It acts like a charm in nervous debility and in ail
conditions brought about by overwork and climatic dangers.
Vitafer
is, and always has been, purely British in conception,
ownership and production. VITAFER, which has been
before the medical profession and public since 1910, was
awarded the Gold Medal at the International Congress
of Medicine, London, August, 1913. ,
Stimulates and
Restores the
Digestive Organs.
Vitafcr
r,*, n,n
Invigorates the
Nervous System.
Afo«»/us/vrrd
Southall Bros. £ Barclay,
BIRMINGHAM.
VITAFER is produced entirely by SOUTHALL
BROS. & BARCLAY, LTD., of Birmingham,
Eng., an old established and well known English
Firm of high repute. (Founded 1820.) All the
processes of VITAFER manufacture
are carried out in their own works at
TIPPERARY and BIRMINGHAM.
Illy
•/
Sold in Tins by a'l Chemists,
4 02., 8 02.. and 16 02.
Prices, 35., ss. and 9s.
BRITISH
therefore
.BEST y
Government Notices.
Commonwealth Commission of Manu-
facturers and Workers to Visit
America.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
tion of Secretary to the above Commis-
sion. Salary £8 per week, with allowance
while outside of Australia of £2 2s. per diem
on land and £1 per diem at sea. and free con-
veyance. Probable duration of appointment
about nine months. Applicants to state age,
qualifications and experience.
Applications to be addressed to Secretary,
Prime Minister’s Departments Melbourne,
and to be received not later than 31st July.
J. 11. STARLING,
Acting Secretary,
Prime Minister’s Department.
Melbourne, 14th July, 1910.
Missing Friends.
JOHN RAINEY, late of North Fitzroy.
near Melbourne, Victoria, will hear of
something to his advantage on communicat-
ing with Messrs. MADDEN. DRAKE and
CANDY, Solicitors, “The Olderfieet,” 473
Collins Street, Melbourne.
TVYER. — If DAVID THOMAS DYER
* * nephew of William Dyer, of Carlton.
Victoria, will communicate with EGGLES-
TON & EGGLESTON, Solicitors, Melbourne,
it will be to his advantage.
"IAiRRIES, FRED, please send address
J- to Mildura. English letter awaiting
you. Important.
J ENNOX, EDWARD, son of DAVID LENNOX, of
Geelong, Victoria, last heard of at Taree, will
hear of something to his advantage by communicating
with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ħ
A. N. A.
£3/10 - to £lO.
Guaranteed 15 Years.
We do not employ can-
vassers to waste your time.
Come direct to us and save
money by securing a better
machine at a lower price.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Used the
World Over
h
ĥ
MOTOR
...CARS
tx^vuna
An Australian Remedy for ECZEMA,
PRICKLY HEAT and SKIN DISEASES.
Hundreds testify to its curative powers.
The most obstinate cases of Eczema cured.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or
jy.S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.2j6
A delightful
Phonograph,
Amberola X,
£B/10/-
An Edison Phonograph will play you the
world’s best music—play untiringly,
without complaint, whenever you feel
inclined to enjoy it.
There are Edison Phonographs from
£3/10/- upwards.
Illustrated is the “Amberola” X, with
concealed horn; a very fine instrument.
Runs smoothly and perfectly; reproduces
clearly and correctly. Handy size to
move from one room to another, etc.
Price only £B/10/-.
Call on your nearest dealer for more
details, or write direct for descriptive
printed matter, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), 301-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Way, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.


sw
N
D
Y
rs
El Y
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, x»
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
ĥ
“Champion
Columbus”
Drag Scoop,
With Runners.
Sizes: 3, 5,7,10 or 13
cubic feet capacity.
“CHAMPION" Steel Stone Crushed. Wheel Scoops fitted with Patent Shafts -or Pate,
Road Machines, Steel Wiard Road Plows, Steel Reversible
Batch or Continuous Concrete Mixers, All Steel Concrete Carts-capacity six cubic .
Steel Tubular Barrows, etc., etc. __
HAVE. NO EQUAL ON THE MARKET.
CAROLIN MACHINERY CO.,
Stanley Street. West Melbourne,
and
ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
ADELAIDE & BRISBANE.
Used by Government Departments throughout
the Commonwealth, and by a large number of
Municipalities, Shires and Private Contractors,
in every State of Australia. Why not have
the best?
POLITICAL
POINTS
Applications for the War Loan must be
in by August 1, so there is no time to
waste. Forms may be got at any bank,
savings bank or post office. Any amount
may be subscribed, from £5 to £50,000,000
Treasurer Higgs doesn’t want more than
that right away. But he wants and every
other patriotic Australian wants a response
so large that it will not only pay the bills
but do two other things: cheer up our lads
at the Front and give the enemy a still
more uneasy feeling in his confidence. In
this connection The Bulletin recalls what
a young officer wrote to it from Egypt the
week after the news of the very fine result
of the last loan had reached the troops.
“Isn’t it magnificent!” he said. “That
bucked up the men more than anything else
that has happened for months past. It
would have done the subscribers good if they
HIS LITTLE BIT.
Business houses are encouraging employees to sub-
scribe to the War Loan by small weekly payments.
BILLO: “ What’s Stinker putting on dorg
for, Peeler ?”
PEELER: “Oh, he's applying for ten quids'
worth of War Loan."
could have heard the cheers there were in
camp as the news was passed along.” There
is, thus, more than the money value at
stake. There is the moral effect on both
sides. And there is per cent, interest.
Ten per cent, of the amount Subscribed for
is payable with the application, and the
balance by instalments running to the
yiiddle of next year.
Employees of the N.S.W. railway service
having invented and manufactured substi-
tutes for 20 different German patents used
in locomotive construction, the Freetrade
Sydney Telegraph cheerfully remarks that
“our mechanics can beat the Germans with
their own industrial weapons,” and that “if
the conditions have not been equal in recent
times we have only ourselves to blame.” Of
course we have. What has happened lately
is that Australian mechanics, working
under a forced Protection, have done what
the Telegraph has for years yelled that it
was an economic offence not to encourage
the foreigner to do. After the Telegraph
has finished blaming itself for having been
a wooden-headed obstacle in the way of
Australian industry, the next bgst thing it
can do is to start being an agitator for a
tariff that will compel Australians to make
a lot more ironmongery, exclusive of cranes
for lifting boxes out of steamers. The war
is not going to protect us from Germany
for ever, and, anyhow, other foreigners are
getting busy.
The monster petition of women organised
by Lady Leith and Viscountess Temple-
town, imploring Hughes to “come back
without a moment’s delay,” is touching evi-
dence of the impression made by William on
the great heart of the British—er —worker.
Not, of course, that the Lady works in a
jam factory; nor does the Viscountess toil
like Doreen pastin’ labels in a pickle joint.-
Lady Forbes-Leith inhabits Castle Fyvie,
in Scotland; also Clashnadarroch Lodge,
near Aberdeen; likewise 1 Grosvenor
Crescent, London. She is a Yank and
married her Baron when he was running
a steel business the U.S.A. In his youth
the Baron, son of a British admiral, was
in the navy, and served in Maoriland against
Henare in the ’GO’s. Viscountess Temple-
town, the other worker to whom William
lias so powerfully appealed, is a sister
of the tenth Earl of Winchelsea and Not-
tingham. The lady also has a castle —in the
County of Antrim —and her husband owns
about 23.000 acres of the Distressful Isle.
Certain workers (in moderation) are
demanding (1) high wages, (2) cheap living
and (3) low production. It can’t be done.
They can have high wages and low produc-
tion; but that means dear living. Or they
can have cheap living and low production;
but that involves low wages. Or they can
have high wages and cheap living; but that
demands high production. What they can’t
have is high wages, cheap living and low
production. If they want high wages and
cheap living there is only one possible way
of getting it —by increasing production and
seeing that no parasite has a bite of the
product.
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioner
Fraser has just presented some more of the
fruits of pouring out borrowed money on
public works when money is dearest and
wuges highest because the cost of living has
climbed to the top of Kosciusko. The rail-
ways don’t pay, he told a deputation the
other afternoon, and he didn’t _ think they
would ever pay again. It doesn’t matter so
much if ordinary working exes, run up.
because they will adjust themselves to any
future change of conditions; but to spend
dear money and expensive labor on per-
manent works means that the costs go up
for all time.
Jack Scaddan (W.A.) is to be shorn of
his Premiership as soon as the House meets
—apparently on a “sudden death” motion,
such as time-saving Charley Kingston intro-
duced to S. Australian politics. But the
wind has been tempered to the shorn goat.
.Tack has won the Labor nomination for his
old seat.
The All-British League in Adelaide has
had a wave of sanity. It begins to realise
that, while everybody agrees with its fren-
zied claim that “Germans” shall not hold
positions of trust in Australia, nobody is
able to say which of the many Australians
who have inherited German names ought to
come under the axe. So it has asked the
Military to publish name, occupation and
address of every enemy subject interned
in S. Aus. up to date. It says it wants
to know who have been proved disloyal; and
that sudden waft of business-like behavior
comes as a blessed change after much wild
flag and chin wagging.
Triumphant shout of a Holmanite during
the opening debate in Ma’s Assembly: —
During the six years Labor has been in power it
has been responsible for more developmental work
and consequent material prosperity than its opponents
in twice that period.
And this boastful claim that it has been twice
as often to the pawnshop as anybody else is
advanced as Labor’s chiefest glory !
Maoriland is leaving nothing to chance in
her hour of magnificent cadge from John
Bull. In order that the hearts of all the
native Imperialists may beat as one and
entertain but a single thought—the achieve-
ment of the next loan —the Dry Hash Gov-
ernment proposes to adjourn local elections
for a year. This is part of a War Precau-
tions Bill. But why this anxiety for the
local Bumble and the County Councillor at
Kapaiwaipirowiro? It looks as if someone
heard an axe on the way to the grindstone.
Buzacott, seconding the Address-in-Reply
nonsense in the N. S. Wales Leg. Chamber:
He did not think the Government would be so
reckless as to send any women to the Council unless
the people had a chance of showing their views
on the matter by electing women to the Lower House.
But if the people will elect women to the
Assembly, the Council is no place for them.
The rule is to send up there only people
whom the people don’t want. And, so long
as there is a Second Chamber, it’s a very
sensible rule, too. For what wouffi be the
use of sending the same sort of peop
both Houses, one to be merely the echo ot
the other?
POLITICAL ECONOMY.
“What’s this stinking fund they fork erbout
in Parliament, ’Erbit?”
“I dunno. S’pose it’s the money the mem-
bers make out of land deals.”
Cold Tea and Bung—especially Cold Tea,
for Bung feels a sinking pain in the stomach
already—are preparing for a mighty fight
over six o’clock in Vic. as soon as the Refer-
endum Bill is passed. The Anglican Bishops
and the Scotchbyterian Moderator have
issued circulars to the faithful telling them
to go bald-headed for six, and most of the
other churches except the R.C.’s are getting
into line. As to the R.C.’s, the Sacred
Heart temperance crusade is going strong,
but the church as a whole is standing pat.
Premier Peacock is in boiling water with
the National Council of Women. It wanted
to send him a deputation, but he said he
was only receiving one from each side on
the liquor question and he had already had
’em both. A few days later he received one
from the Clubs, and now the N.C.W. says
this shows a scandalous leaning to the side
of Beer.
The Vic. Housing Commission has re-
ported unfavorably on “pocket-handkerchief
allotments.” If such reports usually led to
legislative business, which they don’t, re-
formers would have reason to rejoice, for
there is a mild land boom now proceeding
in Melbourne’s newer suburbs, and the
cramped allotment is a common article of
sale, generally without any serious restric-
tion on the part of the municipal authorities.
Naturally there is a reason for that. So
many municipal councillors are land and
estate agents and dabblers in property that
interference would be equivalent to hari-
kari. And the evil will last so long as ever
municipal councils represent property in-
stead of people.
“Carfax” on the great shirk: —
The Commonwealth Government will appoint a
journalist to accompany the Uncle Sam Inspection
Commission, “making the selection from three nomi-
nations to be made by the A.J.A.” Does the Govern-
ment know what it is doing? The council of the
A.J.A. consists of half a dozen Melbourne reporters.
They may know something, of the capacity of Aus-
tralian journalists whom they have never met and
whose work they never see. But it is not likely.
In any case, these men are not on the council of the
A.J.A. because they have any critical faculty. Sup-
posing The Bulletin, or the Age or the Telegraph
or the Worker wanted to send a man to wring copy
out of Yankeeland or Darwin or Canberra or Hughes,
would any of them consider the view of the A.J.A.
worth 2d. ? The Government should make the appoint-
ment and take the responsibility.
In the Speck the row between Hobart and
Launceston is obscuring the small disturb-
ance reported to be in progress in Europe.
The combatants are having a preliminary
trial of strength over the Northern demand
that the head centre of railway administra-
ticfn should be moved to Launceston.
Hobart is kicking fiercely, and ex-Minister
Fitzgerald has mildly
informed Ministers
that the Launceston
people are actuated
by motives of callous
selfishness and in-
satiable greed, but-
tressed by unparal-
leled audacity. He
asked Ministers to
squelch the whole
agitation by a
straight-out answer;
but Premier Lee,
who happens to re-
present a Northern
c o n s t i tuency, de-
clined to commit sui-
cide in such an ob-
vious way. The
general feeling, both
North and South, is
that if the railway
administration goes
north, quite as good
a case can be made
out for shifting
Mines, Education
and a few more.
Peacock has put
forward a plaintive
excuse for offering
to take a referendum
on the early-closing
question, declaring
that “Mr. Elmslie
would have delighted
in pulling feathers
out of Peacock’s tail
if the Ministry had
not decided to fol-
low the example of
S.A. and Tasmania.”
But if Peacock does
things because other
States do them, why
doesn’t he join m
the procession be-
hind the same two
States and offer Vie-
tori a an honest Totalisator Bill?
On the futile Address-in-Reply Hannah,
M.L.A., spent several hours urging on the
disinterested Peacock Government the crying
need for immediate Protection. If he really
intended more than an explosion of hot air.
why didn’t Hannah address his remarks to
the P.L.C.? That body could put consider-
able weight behind a Government which,
judging by recent movements, will still need
a lot of pushing before it provides the pro-
mised tariff.
Australian timber got a fine advertisement
in London the other week, and the Vic-
torian Agent-General’s office got another. A
presentation table made of choice Australian
woods was forwarded to a former G.-G..
Denman, by the committee of the V.R.C.
That was long ago, but only nbw has his
Latex, acknowledged receipt. He explains
that he would have done it before, _ but the
table had only just arrived, having lain
unnoticed in the Agent-General’s office for
more than a year.
WELL PROTECTED.
THE WAR LORD: “ Blockade! Bah Ve
have now der merchant ships under der
sea!”
BUSTED AND SOMEWHAT DISGUSTED HUN
MERCHANT: “Under der sea! Undt
der German cruisers vos dere to brotect
dem also.”
THE DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our fleet had to be built with one eye on English
polities. —Von Hit low.
We watched the movements of their stalwart jaws
Where Cobden’s banner fluttered on the breeze —
The men who toiled at making British laws
To keep their fcieign trade upon the seas.
We watched for chances, and our navy grew;
Between the talk and deed we still got through.
Laughter was ours. The game was good to play.
Our hammers thundered on the glowing steel.
At night we raised our glasses to “The Day,”
And dreamt of larger gun and stouter keel.
The future must be sure. The British style
Was loud and bland and wholly free from guile.
The day arrived. Our watching all was done.
Familiar British antics still were there;
But with the red flare flaming from the gun
We found our eyes apd thoughts were otherwhere.
We learned, alas, the difference at sight
Between a gunner and a Cobdenite.
JT.S.W
CURSE O’ MOSES.


PALING’S PIANOS.
5 AMes
“My Little Girl
passed her first exam, last week with honors, and
says it was the New Piano that did it.” So writes
another of our satisfied customers.
Your Little Girl
can do likewise, provided she studies well and has
a ‘‘Good Piano” to practise on.
It is wise to buy that “Good Piano” from Paling’s.
We will take your old, worn-out piano in exchange
for a new one, and allow you the utmost honest
value.
WE SELL ON TIME PAYMENT.
m
“What a
Beautiful Piano! ”
Almost daily we receive letters from customers telling us how delighted
they are with the Pianos we sold them.
They will be more pleased in the years to come, for the Piano
will please them more and more the longer they use it.
We can please you just the same, as our stock is specially and
very carefully selected in the foremost. factories of the world.
We Know the
Best Piano for Australia
irom our vast experience since 1853 in handling the very best pianos.
We pride ourselves in our immense stocks of pianos suitable for
all classes of buyers for all homes——for your home.
\ou have only to examine the beautiful instruments displayed on
three floors in our large Warehouse to be convinced that Paling’s sell
only the Best Pianos.
mr
We will gladly write
you full particulars.
Call to-day and inspect.
Catalogues are free.
ħ
W. H. PALING <& CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE, STREET. SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba
Newcastle &. Lismore
'/boutfit dem st
fad/ax'sfiaSertj
50years aso' 7 /
© ■
Fine Sapphire and "
Diamonds, set in
Platinum, r homely
cased, £7/7/-
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum, choicely
cased, £2O.
Fine Diamonds,
Set in Platinum,
choicelv cased,
£lO.
5 Fine Diamonds, set
in Platinum, choicely
cased, £lB/18/-
FAIRFAX § ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
p
ZpcßMOfy,
7)
4?
o.
''P
TYRES
<3
ALL
BRITISH
h
THREE RIBBED TYRES \
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to—
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Ltd.,
Stockists :
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, Kin g Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
I ' C 8.— 60
INSECTIBANE
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES,
Rasters
GRAMOPHONE
Records for August
On Sale Friday, 28th July.
Some of the most brilliant vocal and instrumental successes ever
recorded come in for August on the famous “Gramophone”
records. These comprise some of the best
2-053118 “I Vespri Siciliana”
(Verdi). TETRAZZINI.
2-0561 Judex “Mors et Vita”
(Gounod).
Royal Albert Hall Orchestra.
01132 Dear Dove of Mine.
Miss Perceval Allen and
Mr. John Harrison.
4-2614 O May My Dreams Come
True.
Mr. John Coates (Tenor).
4-2613 All That I Ask.
Mr. Ivor Walters (Tenor).
4-2615 Margery Green (A saucy
ditty, divertingly rendered).
Mr. Charles Tree (Baritone).
Opera in English.
04G17 Gems from. “Aida,” Part I.
04618 Gems from “Aida,” Part 11.
New Double-Sided
Records— 3/6.
8514
The Red, White and Bine.
Tip Top Tipp miry Mary.
American Quartette.
15510
This Is Tl.e I,fife—Medley.
Italian Favorite's.
Pietro Piero- ( Accordeon).
8518
Regimental Mar dies —Part I.
Regimental Mar< ihes —Part 11.
Coldstream Guards Band-.
Ask your dealer for the latest lists, or write to
“ GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE C 0„ LTD.,
163 PITT STREET -SYDNEY.


The chances of the Deutchland’s trio prov-
ing void and empty through her failure to
return to Hunland are excellent, is the
notion inspired by the circumstances and
King George IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
In these anxious times —econ-
omy must be a first considera-
tion. Cut out needless expense
shave yourself. It’s easy and
quite safe if you use the
No STROPPING NO HONING
No other razor gives you the
same satisfactory service.
Sold everywhere, 23 /6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
MUD OVE*
TO FOREST RANGERS 8 TIMBER MEN.
WANTED competent, energetic and reliable man to
direct and control extensive timber-getting
operations about 50 miles from Brisbane, having
ability deal with men, arrange contracts, etc. Good
salary paid first-class man. Applicants state age,
salary required, enclose copies principal references.
Particulars given promising candidate. Reply
“SAWMILLER,”
Care of Gordon & Gotch, Brisbane.
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
B Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. OF all Grocers and Chemists.,
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ħ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The poor old Public was saved consider-
able cash when the owner of Uxbridge took that
popular hurdler out of the Australian Steeplechase,
leaving him in the companion event. Last year, after
winning the Australian Hurdle Race for the second
time, Uxbridge looked very likely to win the Steeple
until he made a blunder. * This year he was thought
to be going to have another try at the bigger
jumps. The theory that a clever hurdle-racer can
manage the moderately stiff fences at Caulfield still
holds good, and Uxbridge was the confidential tip of
all the hard-faced men in the street. Moreover, the
handicapper had been blamed for “chucking” the old
chap into the Steeple. By scratching Uxbridge three
weeks before the four-miles race came due, owner
Moffatt did Ikey Mo a bad turn —thank the Lord.
The scratching of baronet Cooper’s im-
ported horse Redfern drew salt tears from any num-
ber of early speculators on the Epsom and Metro-
politan double. One big punter, usually well-armed
with information, coupled Redfern with William the
Silent to win fully £IO,OOO. The owner has stated
that Redfern will run only in weight-for-age events.
Without that explanation it might have seemed
strange to* find the beast entered for any of the big
handicaps. During the past fortnight some person
made a desperate effort to back Redfern straight-out
for the Epsom, but found that the books had the
bar up. The incident made some people wonder
whether, if a good parcel had been secured, Redfern
woyld have considered a rich handicap beneath his
dig. Anyway, Redfern has so far shown no glimpse
of his English form.
It has come to pass right enough, and
deep is the woe in Israel. The punters fell on Ikey
once more at Rosehill (Sydney) on Saturday, and,
getting him down, tore cash out of the bag in big,
thick wads. Three favorites and three second
favorites captured the six races. At a place like
Rosehill this spells disaster to Ike, for on these
suburban courses betting is always concentratecf. It
is now odds-on that after these three calamitous
Saturdays there will be a tightening up of the alleged
odds and a yearning amongst the tribe of Bar Von
for a holiday until there is something doing at Rand-
wick. Should the public be in good form at that
burial-ground of blasted hopes, the wail of Abraham
will be as that of a thousand souls outside a Sydney
pub on a hot day when the clock strikes six and an
anguished Bung puts up the shutters.
Rosehill horse-trainer W. Booth seldom
makes a mistake when he places the “out-to-win”
ticket on one of his nags. His gelding Boureong was
always favorite for the Flying on Saturday, and
landed the goods from the consistent Hopfield. Horse-
flesh which cannot pay for its feed seldom stays in
Booth’s stable, which this season has, perhaps, turned
out more winners than any other, thanks mainly to
the early deeds of Eulacre and Dame Acre. But
Boureong had a close shave. Black had the mount
on Hopfield, who has usually been decorated by the
apnrentice Crockett. Seven pounds less meat on the
saddle would have made a lot of difference to the
Malster horse, who was meeting Boureong on 61b.
worse terms than when he outed Booth’s gelding at
Randwiek last month.
* *. * *
During the 1915-16 racing season £203.000
has been distributed in the way of stake-money by
the various race clubs in the Svdnev metropolitan
area. The A.J.C. handed out £93,000. Of course,
we will pay Cohen sometime or other, but it doesn’t
look as if we are trying very hard to do without
him. AVe might at least have a Boomanbust Handi-
cap to remind us of what’s coming.
* * * *
This continued success of imported nags
in Sydney ought to be inquired into. Corrie,
a mare from Maoriland, is the latest offender,
having appropriated the Hurdles at Rosehill on
Saturday. The mare showed great improvement on
her form at Canterbury Park three weeks earlier. _ A
consoling point is that on Saturday she was favorite.
Horses from M.L. are beginning to wander over this
way in larger numbers than usual, and by the time
the Spring Meeting arrives there should be a big
team on the premises. Some of the prads already
on the continent are well forward, and it is more
than likely that other events may fall to them
shortly. Strange to say. no imported horse managed
to win at Rosehill, although Medley very nearly
succeeded in keening up the average. Gadabout, for
which 1500 guineas was paid in the Cold Country,
was a starter in the mile and a quarter handicap, and
was fourth.
* * » *
“Ambler”: The bowl about the injury
that will be done to the breeding of utility horses if
Victorian Chief Sec. McLeod persists in his intention
to reduce the number of trotting meetings in the
year from 20 to 10 may have something in it so far
as the square-gaited trotter is concerned, though even
that much is problematical. But it is a certainty
that as applied to the pacer the howl is just a howl.
The pacer is no use outside a racing track and no
ornament anywhere. Probably 75 per cent, of the
nags started in the Victorian “red-hots” are pacers—-
artificially-,gaited brutes which have to be tied up
with complicated harness and ironmongery in order
to keep them on their feet. Not onlv are they of no
utility but they are a positive danger to people
unaccustomed to their charming habits, for unless
going at top they are always likely to come down.
How much utilitv is there about a beast which can
only be driven like Hades in a lot of hardware for
two or three miles and then has to be spelled for the
rest of the day?
* * * i *
' It is stated that Carbine’s bones have been
set up by Rowland AVard, the famous London taxi-
dermist, and are to be presented to this continent
by the Duke of Portland. Another nag whose bones
went back to the country that had witnessed his
triumphs on the track was the mighty Ormonde, per-
haps the greatest of all racehorses. He died in
’Frisco, and his Yankee owner was “sport” enough
to have the skeleton set up and returned to Fogland.
The first speed animal to be preserved in this way
was the unbeaten Eclipse. His framework is at the
Roval Veterinary College, Camden Town. Edward
ATI. had a habit of preserving all he could of his
most famous nags when they died. Persimmon’s head
decorates a hall at Sandringham, his tail is in the
stable-room there, his bones are in the Natural His-
tory Museum at South Kensington, and his hide was
cut into small pieces to form the special feature of
numerous gold and silver caskets' that Edward dis-
tributed among his many horsey friends.
* * * * *
The imported Tosson, a winner at the
S.A.J.C. meeting, got' away with the Valley Handicap
at Moonee (Vic.) last week, carrying 9st. 21b. over
the mile in “43.” It was a very good gallop and
made several people look up what the horse is asked
to carry in the Caulfield Cup. The list says 7st. 91b.
As Tosson cost less than a couple of hundred he
doesn’t owe anyone much, and is suspected of being'
the kind of animal that may win again.
* * * *
Ecuador, winner of the Jumpers’ Flat Race
at Moonee Valley (Vic.) on Saturday, cost his owner
CO guineas; and at that figure was fairly cheap. He
has been an occasional winner at country meetings
since the deal. But Ecuador wasn’t always cheat),
llis previous owner acquired him at three years old
for 380 guineas, and was glad to get rid of him.
The previous proprietor had given 1500 guineas for
him as a yearling. Ecuador is by Grafton —Silver
Coin, and was bred by T. Payten. He is full brother
to the Australian Cup winner Peru.
* * * *
. Just before the recent Hawkes Bay
(M.L.) Winter Meeting a local sport, G. L. Stead,
who specialises in ’chasers, took a fancy to an aged
gelding named Sam Pan, by San Fran —Waikaha, an
acceptor in the June Steeplechase. The owner of
the animal wasn’t much interested in Sam, and
didn’t reckon the beast had a ghost of a chance,
so he said he would part with the prad for “ £5 a
leg.” Stead promptly handed over the 20 sovs., and
a couple of days later got his capital back plus a
big war profit, the animal romping home in the race'
and demanding 245 sovs. Whereupon the original
owner of the moke leaped on his hat and made libel-
lous remarks about himself.
* * * *
The liowl to have all racing stopped in
Maoriland is still hitting the stars, but no one
outside the Little Bethel seems to be taking notice.
There might be something in the yelp if everything
else were stooped. Meanwhile the certain thing
is that since the big scrap started the racing clubs
over yonder have contributed more than £50,000. to
patriotic funds and handed the Government £300,000
in taxes on receipts and tote investments. Even
piety is impressed by a stream of revenue like that.
* * * *
Jimmy Clabby is not the first pugilist to
own a racehorse in Australia. Tommy Burns had
Brilliant Boy running in six-furlong dashes back in
1909, and won some cash with the nag. Burns also
acquired Julia B. (Soolt —Roxiana). At the time
it was thought that Julia B. —then a yearling filly—
would never stand a preparation, and a buyer, Fox,
of Westralia, was found prepared to take a chance.
The same man purchased Brilliant Boy. Both
animals won numerous races in the West, particu-
larly Julia, who afterwards went to Victoria and is
now on the Speck. Frank Thorn, present feather-
weight champion of Queensland, had a. string of
ponies, which he trained himself, in Melbourne a
year or two back, but has found stoush more profit-
able than moke. George Johns, who was weltei - -
weiaht champion of Australia for years, lias made
laying the odds better business than talcin’ ’em, and
does business on Sydney pony courses. Busra, the
lepper Clabbv is stated to have an interest in, ran
second in Moonee Valley (Melbourne) Steeplechase
last Saturday.
* * * *
Owner E. Oatley writes to Sydney Tele-
graph complaining about crook riding and demand-
ing that it be “put clown.” “No owner.” says
Oatley, “has of late suffered more than mvself. In-
variably mv horses are severely dealt with, and my
jockeys bitterly complain, but unfortunately for
reasons best known to themselves they dislike report-
ing offenders to the stewards. Hence malpractice
continues without abatement.” Oatley will have the
sympathy of a lot of people. This business has been
referred to several times recently by The Bulletin,
and it hones to see him stick in the game and root
some of the crooks out. But it will onlv be done
with an axe. It is no use waiting- for complaints to
come from the boys themselves. They are terrified to
say a word ; and there is more than one prominent
horseman in Australia to-day whose failure is due to
fear more often than to anything else. Racing
stewards seem to he blind to what goes on, and this is
well known to all racing men. This paoer despairs
of seeing the evil cut out by the people who now
have the matter in hand, and is coming to the con-
clusion that what is wanted is the appointment of
one individual, at a good salary, in every racing
centre, armed with authority to issue jockeys’ licenses
and suspend or cancel them on his own initiative and
without having to hear evidence which is mostly
perjury. If such an appointment were made and the
official had a chin, several courses would be much
more tidy places than they are now.
*' * * *
A Sydney paner the other day gave the
record turf winnings of a horse as Donovan’s
£55,000. But Isinglass (’92-95) raked in over
£57,000. Even that figure would almost certainly
have been far exceeded by Flying Fox, who, after
winning £40,000 in two seasons, and being looked
upon as a dead cert, for another £40,000 in the
following year, was disqualified by the death of his
owner, the Duke of Westminster. But the biggest
money often tumbles in after the turf is done with.
St. Simon, at a 600-guinea fee, totalled over £BO,OOO.
La Fleclie cost as a yearling £6OOO. Then she won
over £30.000 in stakes, and was sold into the stud
for £13,000.
The very latest English war levy is the
“spectator” tax. It was collected for the first time
at the Newmarket Second Soring Meeting and was
as follows: “Looking” from the Grand Stand, 2s.
per clay, ladies Is.; from the five-bob stand, 3d.;
from the half-crown stand, 2d. So far no one
has had to pay a tax for using a field-glass, but that
is probably on the way. A harassed Minister of
Finance anxiously looking round for cash to plough
up the road to Berlin is liable to leap at tuppence
wherever he sights it.
* * * *
While horse-naming worries some people
there are others who approach the job with light and
airy casualness. E. E. D. Clarke (Vic.) is one of
the casuals. A couple of years ago he christened a
trio of his prads One, Two and Three. This season
he labels another batch Thrice, Billion and Trillion.
He seems to have forgotten Hop, Skip and Jump,
likewise Rags, Tags and Bags. And what about
Dearly, Beloved, Brethren?
Fred Kay, the lanky Westralian who
generally contrives to be absent when someone tries
to hit him, had an argument with Tommy Uren at
Sydney Stadium on Satuiday, and Thomas mostly
landed where the other chap was before he shifted.
It was a rather dreary conflict and raged with furious
monotony over the full journey—with the exception
of the 17th round, when both men cut loose and
handed out frightfulness. Mainly the thing consisted
of Uren struggling to get there and arriving when
Kay had moved to anew address. If the Stadium
people could manage to import someone fitted with
arms designed on telescopic principles, a battle
between the stranger and Kay ought to draw like a
revival picnic. Then Kay would find himself nailed
with a left hook to tiie jaw, and when heleaped
away the glove would leap after him !7 f t. jthd hook
him again, and the other one would spring forward
and biff him on the reverse. On Saturday it was
reckoned by Arthur Scott that Kay s absence scored
more points than Uren’s arrival at where he dicta t
want to be. Perhaps he was right. It didn t mattei,
anyhow. _ *
♦ * *
A youth named Cooke, whom Smith
lias been instructing in the ancient art of block ana
biff, is under suspicion of being fated to execute
damage to other people—even to develop into that
heavyweight for whom Australia has been pining foi
so iong. Anyhow, Cooke made good at Sydney
Stadium last week in a dust-up with Bananalander
Tim Traeev, a protege of Fritz Holland ; so lie will
be tried out some more. He is a heavily-shouldered,
meatv gentleman of 19, nearly old enough to enlist,
and the scale refuses to say anything less than ldst.
“The Nomad”: The six-o’cloek closing
riot in Brisbane is being outed by the doings of two
rival factions of Amateur Stoush. The trouble stai ted
at the annual meeting of the Amateur Boxing- Asso-.
ciation. Much discontent was expressed over the
actions of the officials. Finally Harry Sundeilancl
grabbed his hat
and invited those
who wanted clean
sport to go with
him and form a
n e w association,
and 90-odd accepted
the invitation.
Since then rhere
have been two
bodies, each calling
itself the Queens-
land Amateur Box-
ing and Wrestling-
Association. The Sun-
derlandites, mainly
through the person-
ality of their leader,
have gathered most
of the “big influence”
round them, and in
between making ar-
rangements for the
forthcoming patriotic
tournament pass rude
remarks about the
other crowd’s bal-
ance-sheets. The audi-
tor, one Burnett, has
mobilised with the
new crowd. Also he
casts aspersions. The
accused retort that
he has a rat, or some-
thing. Present indi-
cat i o n s are that
several 20-round con-
tests between some
of the warring offi-
cials will be staged
in the Supreme Court.
PHIL
SHAPPERE,
of Vic. footracing.
If Wave Gieke thought that Frank Thorn
was not still carrying a punch he made a mistake,
because at Brisbane on Saturday it passed him out in
the 17th collision. It used to look at one time as if
young Gieke would go a long way. But it often
looks that way until it looks the other way.
Eddie Moy had another belt at Herb
McCoy at Melbourne on Saturday night, and inci-
dentally cleared the atmosphere of doubt. This
time McCoy wasn’t in the hunt, Moy’s left knocking
with the persistency of a time-payment collector and
taking all the sting out of Herbert’s most strenuous
efforts. The harder the Victorian slogged in, the
cooler the Yank took it, planting straight lefts and
right crosses with due deliberation and much fre-
quency. As in their previous disturbance, Moy
finished up with his opponent on the totter, but this
time took home the dispensation of the referee.
Either McCoy is very stale or he has hit the slide.
More imported articles —Arlos Fanning, who will
meet Spargo, and the swarthy Mexican, Benny Palmer,
McCoy’s next opponent—were put on show before the
performance.
* * * *
The tax on amusement is collected occa-
sionally. Les Darcy was ordered by a beak the other
day to" pav £4 6s. for driving his motor-car at ex-
cessive speed along a Sydney street. As Darcy has
acquired a car and a fortune in a couple of years by
the amusing process of driving his fist against the
midriff of various persons, there seems to be a lot of
solid joy in being a pug. who hears the referee do
the counting for someone else. But not always.
There are some fairly successful pugs who haven’t
cars.
* * * *
N. S. Wales’ motor registrations to June
30, 1916, total 21,055 —a rise of 3149 on the figures
for 1915; also 30,624 drivers’ licenses show a jump
of 4352. So the poor horse is pushed off the highway
into the paddock. But he still possesses the final use
of being turned into razor-strops.
*■ * * *
A youngster not yet 18 is making a blaze
in N.S.W. road-cycling. In successive week-ends this
E. Sells has won the Windsor (the League open
event of the season) and two 10-mile club events.
The efforts have dragged him astern among the
baekmarkers; but the manner of his wheeling sug-
gests that he may have an appetite for still bigger
prizes.
Australians continue chasing motor-cycle
records and the old man with a scythe. The ink
chronicling the world’s record whiz of H. A. Parsons
was not dry when Jack Booth (Vic.) leaped aboard
a 7-h.p. Indian and streaked over a mile in 43 2-ssee.
(3sec. off the “best”) and five miles in 3min. 57sec.
(14 2-ssec. improvement). His arrival at the end of
10 miles in Bmin. 28 4-ssec. was 2-ssec. late.
Drizzling rain and mud were no assistance. Now for
the next.
* * * *
Word comes that Charlie Ivelleway, the
tall Glebe (Sydney) cricketer, has got in the way of
a Hun missile, and is on one side for repairs.
Young Fred Weiss’s win in N.S.W.
Markers’ Tournament at Sydney kept the family
record going in the billiard world. “Dad” AVeiss was
a great cueist in these parts; and young Fred looks
like being a useful performer in the same line.
Charlie Memmott, one-time Australian champion, is
helping the youngster over the stones.
“D.F.”: Fanny Durack has a complete
monopoly in world’s swimming records as far as
women are concerned. She holds the time for 100
yards, 100 metres, 220 yards, 300 yards, 300 metres,
440 yards, 880 yards, and the mile. Some of her
speeds compare not too badly with the men’s records.
She splashed the 880 yards in 12min. 52sec., and the
world’s best is llmin. 11 3-ssec.
* * * *
Tlie 100yds. professional race for girls,
decided at Mudgee (N.S.W.) on Saturday, re-
solvvd into a championship match between
Bessie Crandemange, of Botany, and Hazel
Meers, of Mudgee. Bessie won by 3in. in 11 2-ssec.
—a world’s record. The best previous sprints
registered by girls were done in 12sec. A man who
can run a hundred in 11 2-ssec. is no slouch. The
Grandemange family is noted for its sprinters and
distance runners. Freely translated, the name means
“big eater,” which suggests that the appetite of the
ancestral Grandemange was not in vain.
“W.Ii.H.” (from the other end) : Last
week the papers briefly recorded that “George Gray,
the champion billiardist, has suddenly departed for
America, without any previous intention, and without
any arrangement for engagements.” Far be it from
me to suggest that the fact of eligible men being
called up on June 17 under the new compulsion
scheme had anything to do with this precipitous
departure.
Lieut. Cecil McVilly, who left the Speck
with the A.I.F. recently, was for the past five or six
years Australia’s foremost amateur sculler. He first
came to light in 1910, when as a raw recruit he won
the championship of Tasmania from P. C. Ivens (Vie.j
and A. Priddle (N.S.W.). Next year lie wiped out
Jack Towns at Sydney, and thereby annexed the
ribbon for Australia. But his crowning achievement
came in 1913, when he followed up a victory in the
International Grand Challenge Cup on the Thames by
pulling off the event beyond which no amateur can
hope to g'O —the Diamond Sculls. In this race he
earned a good deal of criticism from the English
papers by allegedly giving his backwash to the
English champion. It was afterwards pretty generally
admitted that the accusations were unjustified, for,
apart from the fact that giving an opponent one s
backwash is unavoidable in a narrow stream, anyone
who knew McVilly was aware that he was one of the
finest representatives of the great Dinkum family, and
a man who under all circumstances endeavored, to
play the game. McVilly was often pressed to join
the profesh ranks, and had he done so there s not the
slightest doubt he would have gone a long way
towards winning the world’s championship.
“Sound trumper-like cricket” is tlie way
the Egyptian Mail (9/6/’l6) refers to a score of 25
made by a Sergeant Thompson in a regimental match
played the previous day by Australians. The wicket
was finally captured by Sergeant De Boos. How
Sergeant MacDougall topped the score with 42 is
told by the Mail in a graphic sentence: He did it
with a succession of hits and misses, ’ That s the
beauty of cricket. Hit a man for six byes or miss
him to leg for five, it is all the same.
* * * *
Although two rounds have yet to be
played, Sydney Soccer premiership is all over. Annan-
dale's efforts in winning 11 out of 12 matches
pushes them so far ahead that not even an earthquake
can rob them of the glory. During the season
Annandale put up a splendid record by scoring 53
goals to eight. W. Carroll- gets goals as easily as
a curate swallows tea.
* * * *
On the Adelaide Oval Prince Alfred
College added to its many sporting wins of the last
two years by giving St. Peter’s a bad beating at
football. ' The game was not one-sided, but the
winners had more system when attacking. It is the
only football the Oval is likely to see, this season, the
game being dead for seniors, except as to an alleged
“Patriotic” League, which js sternly thrust out into
suburban ovals and park lands. Almost the same
day P.A.O. learned that two of its teaching staff had
been killed in France —sons of parson historian
Blanket and of doctor-of-music Harold Davies. Both
soldiers were “old Princes,” and brilliant athletes in
their day.


1
■
Deep Breathing is the
Vital Force of Life
The Passport to Good Health. ■■
It is oxygen that gives the blood its sparkling- redness —
the body its warmth and energy—that makes it possible
for the food we eat to be transformed into bone, muscle and
tissue.
Since it is the duty of the lungs to supply the blood with
oxygen, deep breathing should be the foundation of every
svstem of exercise.
A great majority of people are shallow chested —sufferers
from oxygen starvation —and yet they wonder why they
are fatigued, depressed, . under weight—*why their vital
organs fail in their duty
The deep-breathing exercises included in my
POSTAL COURSE of HEALTH
and STRENGTH CULTURE
are most modern, efficient and successful.
They build up weak chests by strengthening the lungs,
developing the muscles supporting the chest walls, broaden-
ing the shoulders, and making you breathe in a natural
way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suitable for
your individual physique, just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require.
I have written a book entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells all about my methods,
fees, etc. It will be sent to your address on request. Just
write your name and address across this advertisement and
post it to me. 1 will know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
520 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
MY CIGARILLOS
Are Excellent Smokes
h
Xo smoker who has tried
my Cigarillos would ever
willingly be without them.
Their quality is the same as
that of a choice shilling
Havana Cigar.
They are tine and mild in
flavor, with a most delicious
aroma.
Write for a sample lot.
If you don’t like them,
return them, and I will
only charge you for those
smoked.
In three sizes, hut all
ONE QUALITY.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
2/6 2/3 2 -
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
5/6 5/- 4/6
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No, No.
1. 2. 3.
11/- 10/- 9/-
Postage Extra.
On 100—
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for my
Illustrated Cata-
log of Cigars,
Cigarettes, To-
baccos, Pipes
and all Smokers’
Requirements.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A.M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL,
is
NATURE'S
BEST,
Gifts for '
Friends in Camp.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values: —
Soldiers’ Money Belts, witli
pockets, from . 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case ..... . 4/-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
|654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 Years.
r
DOMINATES THE ROAD
Count the Indians as they pass l
CATALOGUES WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE :
SYDNEY:
BRISBANE :
ADELAIDE :
LAUNCESTON
PERTH :
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co Pty. Ltd., 109=113 Russell Street.
Milledge Brothers Ltd., 156 Castlereagh Street.
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide and Creek Streets.
Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79 Pirie Street.
John King & Sons Ltd.. Charles Street.
Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Hay Street.
PATON
7721 ✓
Write for Particulars and Quotations
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES.
The man who dresses correctly knows that
every detail of his apparel must be correct,
otherwise his whole appearance is marred.
In the matter of footwear RIGNEY SHOES
are his invariable choice.
We illustrate a choice Willow Galf Eac-e
Boot, Linen Lined, close and medium welts,
perforated golosh and lace face
21/ and 27/6.
Also in Black, same price.
♦ Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOt
1
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors.”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
To The Motorists
of Australia.
'*r
The importation of Foreign-made Motor Tyres
at any time is against the advancement of
Australian Industry, but at the present juncture—
whilst the Empire is fighting for freedom and
civilization—the buying of Foreign-made goods is
economically unsound and contrary to Australian
interests. Last year Motor Tyres to the value of
£427,000 (including a small proportion for General
Rubber Goods) were imported into this Country.
This Australian money went to enrich oversea
capital and oversea workmen, when it could have
been more loyally employed in furthering
Australian industry and prosperity. There is a
supply of “ DUNLOPS ” and other Australian-
made tyres to meet all demands without the
importation of a single foreign-made tyre.
Why not support the Country that support
you? Australian-made
DUNLOP
TYRES
offer vou equal—if not better —mileage and tyre
satisfaction than you can secure from foreign
tyres, plus lower initial cost, and the additional
advantage that "Dunlops” are made specially
heavy, with a view to withstanding hard work on
Australian roads, and that we as manufacturers
arfe on the spot to liberally meet all adjustment
claims. The Motorist who always uses “ Dunlops
helps his country and helps himself by ensuring
economy in tyre upkeep, and maximum service.
Stocked In all size* by Leading Garage*
u
Trade Mark
. Dunlop Rubber Co. of Aust. LtJ
(FounJ.r. „/Iht Pneumatic T,n Mall's)
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
“Yarriambiak”: I hope that Speaker
Madden of the Victorian Assembly will stick
to his guns in the matter of lobbying, and
no harm would be done if the Federal
Speaker followed suit. Within a week or
two the Victorian Parliament will consider
the proposed referendum on the six o’clock
closing question, and as both Bung and the
Wowser are mighty 100 Dyers somebody will
be smothered if Madden doesn’t stand firm.
But lie was unfortunate in picking on Hyett,
secretary of the Railways Union, as the
first object of his wrath. The railway men
have been agitating for wages boards for
years, but. have always been loftily told that
they had no need for either wages boards or
arbitration courts, as they had the right of
appeal to the highest court in the land —
Parliament itself. Now they are thrown
neck and crop from that tribunal, too.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
-At the War.
mi
mm
*a
gsa
Wg§
ifen?
■m
&&js
; ip
Isgi^M
§g!PsSlg!
3 ta
Swa
m
VBM
. 655
yssS^gK
BR
■■■-■-'v
SSS
US
■J4itrS
-.-3
B*B
riSpSi!
aars
Hi
-
SSsSr*
a®
-/'
: V7!n
Sb*
•Rsfertt
■c*
feeB
Pv';
giSfels
ftl
■j&'s'
tfS*
O
j©B£S*
xt. r<
Si
•SKS
-&&SK
iii
6d
@£s
03
gf£l§s
i'&'SS*
ass
t.V’.'v.-'
; 3&3?
„ft@Bg..
• Mt
Hs^
i 3
. ‘
m
-vrr-
■'u-“.
fiSliliti
gSSg
■
-‘" ....
Blw
*
& s
Wm E
W4sm
v
MSI
ipiii i
mm
»SS
|pl&/£
1@»
s $*
mi'.
ske
MKft
i®*
skyeris
B‘ r . I W 0& PSP
wignsßHr **
hsQ
M&-
/
c^'
S&<«
mm
: m :
£Jc&* .-/iift-Ui
sllSl
- '• ;-
8#
Sss.. 5
H
:
Billll
:
m
Wm
•>■-■ if ,--
Im
>/.>
1
n
•v 5
m
i<M
BS|';
: :Y-;::.
\ | | S •
. IS■■■•,: S 5 E *&& ■ - SMS gKSS
is
g
■‘\
nai
K«S!
m
wm
m
5
™a
wmm
\t-
-23. a
mm
mm
mmmmf
8 :..»
'
i
r-:
mb "
ISS
sygs
:
;'.V"j?i;-,-r' /feciSvssijg'Si
-:■&■<&>*s&!( ®t&Qa*
IS
smmo>’-
•HSSjJSSS.
T T T-''.-xi
W»
1 - i
a©
Xv
stjftg
-V
Si
MB
S g
as
:--'V': ; 7
Swill
\
Vmw
,\
tf::':::
V
aA
;rf«
r.-aHs
msm
-
m
m
<&'j?
w
•aste».
«&($
Ws
WW€tfi
'mm
:>; 7 .,:
i?feE>
/j? £ f-tfZfsSg,
Wjfik*
,| 3Kjp|g^'Mg
'■’'i 8 --' - ri ■ ’*•"'
Cobra,” Boot PolisK
(Thunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Goes below decl
With his crew
Where the great
Hum and roar
And the shovels
On the floor
fires
Scrape a fireman’s
Fighting song.
“ Fire up, boys !
Push her along !
“Enemy is
Now in sight!
“And our guns are
'COBRA’ —-bright!


Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter's Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t W
come.
asrreKS
ITTLE
iVER
PILLS.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
CHRISTIE^
£PECIAUS£
TWO
L/A/ES
si# 5
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIE'S
TK. STRAND
1
MM
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
zr /TOWER ST NEWCASTLE
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, COOT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of cases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating the delicate
. and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must be
removed, and no. treatment that does not aim
at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following' testimonial:—
SEVERE CASE Of 1 RHEUMATISM CURED.
MerisOj Vic. —I suffered terrible pain
across the groin, around the loins and hips,
right down to the ankle. I could not sit up
or lie with any comfort. After taking a few
doses of your medicine I could get about. I
am most thankful to you for the benefit 1
have received from your wonderful medicine.
Hoping that others will go to you for relief
and kindness. —Your gratefully, ~
DONALD CAMPBELL.
FREE
Write to-day for FREE
SAMPLE and valuable
Book (postage 3d.) to
F. PARKER,
11l Daking House, Rawson Place, S*drey.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part ft- leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin .you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, vvill deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—•
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
d
uxyanan,
SH.
BROODY HENS for 12/0.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of oruer.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept, H.,
40 Himter Street, Sidney.
REAL SATISFACTION
Some people are satisfied with anything. Some require the fulles.
measure. Others put up with all kinds of trouble because they do not
know the perfect satisfaction to be obtained
From a F.I.A.T. CAR
Motorists who know will have nothing else.
The following is a regular sample of F.I.A.T. satisfaction:—
Cowra,
The Manager, 2nd April, 1916.
Garretts Ltd., SYDNEY.
Dear Sir, —
It is non: TWO (2) years and six months since I bought my F.1.A.T.,
and during that time 1 have used it constantly, travelling over 16,000
miles.
I feel that I ought to let you know how well it has served me, and
how wonderfully satisfactory it has been.
I have never been stuck up nor had to put a spanner on a nut, not
even to take out a spark plug.
I can only say that owning a F.I.A.T. Car means real pleasure and
complete satisfaction.
Yours truly,
. ( Signed) JAMES CASS.
15/20 5- and 7-Passenger Model de Luxe, £750
GARRATTS LTD.
ALICK McNRIL, Genera! Manager
173-175 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well=known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
treatment of the hair and complexion, thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
Well, the less “treatment” you give _ some good stallax from your chemist and use
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only -“treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes ail the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
%
Photo: Wrather & Buys.
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A ionic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it?—stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
m
-y
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There ai'e plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of . “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Norbell” : In Uncle Wilson’s country they
have a simple device for emptying the “con
tinuous” vaudeville dens which send up the
lunacy 'statistics there. The real 18-carat
turns are shown only in the evening, and
the afternoon audiences often exhibit symp
toms of wanting to sit tight and take a
second helping. To foil this the managers
put on diabolical “supper turns” about
0 pan. The yarn goes that once the audi-
ence was obstinate and wouldn’t shift. The
manager sent on the “Refined Sketch Team”
first, and then the “Performing Pigs;” and
so on over and over again in that order.
Rut the house endured it. Then the Refined
Sketchers were sent on twice in succession.
That was too much. The audience rose
as one man and yelled: “For Gorsake give
us the pigs!”
“Up Stage”: After a satisfactory argu-
ment with the doctor, two members of the
Bert Bailey Co. have signed up for the
big fight. Jack Fowler (Billie Bearup in
“On Our Selection”) goes into camp next
week. The previous exponent of “Bill”
(Fred White) found his way to a commis-
sion, and is now “somewhere abroad.” And
George Kensington joins his partners next
month.
“First Old Man” : The reason why “To-
night’s the Night,” just staged at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), is a somewhat crude
reminder of “The Girl in the Taxi” (B.
13/7/’l6) is that both pieces are free-and-
easy versions of the ancient farce “Pink
Dominoes,” one version being a little less
slipshod than the other. “Pink Dominoes”
itself was an adaptation from the French
and belongs to a numerous family of so-
called “naughty” plays very popular in the
’7o’s in London, any one of which with just
a little tinkering and a few song-and-dance
interpolations would be thought good
enough for a new musical comedy nowadays.
“Bunker”: When the Japanese cruisers
were lately visiting Wellington (M.L.) the
theatre band, after playing a variety of
National Anthems, struck up something that
puzzled everybody. Presently the whisper
was passed that it was Japan’s tune. All
present stood up except a number of Japan-
ese officers. One of our soldier-men, puzzled,
said: “They’re playing your Nat’onal
Anthem.” The astonished vis'tors remarked :
“Our National Anthem! So sorry. Not
know. We are stupid fellows.” A word was
said in Japanese. And they all rose to their
feet, and there wasn’t even a ripple of a smile
among them. You can’t beat that for polite-
ness.
Who said the accordeon was a relic of
the past? This is from the Casino
(N.S.W.) Express:-
SHANNON BROOK.
A Social Evening
will be held at Mr. Fred Yates’ Residence, oii
Friday, July 14th,
Proceeds to Purchase an Accordeon for Socials.
Gent’s- 2s. 6d., Ladies Provide. —-Fred Yates.
There’s a good time waiting for the boys
from the Brook when they return from the
Big B usiness.
Haddon Chambers has written a new
play,, this time for Cyril Maude, who, like
Chambers, is seen oftener in the U.S.A.
than anywhere else these times. The piece
is a comedy, “Uncle Blinn” —to be sampled
in the “fall” at the Empire, New York.
“T.” : Playwrights worry their brains to
find what they consider suitable titles for
their pieces, but do play-titles matter, any-
how ? Here are a few of recent London
attractions: “Samples” (Vaudeville), “More”
(Ambassador’s), “Hot and Cold” (Opera
House), “Half-past Eight” (Comedy), “Fol-
low the Crowd” (Empire), “The Bing Boys
are Here” (Alhambra), “Bric-a-Brac”
(Palace), “Honi Soit” (Metropolitan).
“Pick-a-Dilly” (Pavilion). True, these all
belong to irresponsible revues, but I believe
that some of the plays now running would be
every bit as successful if titles were swapped
-—that “Romance” would draw just as well
if called “Hot and Cold” and “The Boomer-
ang” still knock ’em as “Honi Soit.”
“Up stage”: Glancing down the glorified
programme of a vaudeville house last week,
I was confronted by the awful spectacle of
the names of 14 performers due to arrive
shortly from the U.S., and prominently
spaced was the enormous expense necessary
to entice these “stars” from their native
land. Local talent wasn’t mentioned. If
we must have mediocrity—and nine-tenths
of these U.S. impoiTs are no better than
that —what about giving the Australian
accent a chance? Australian audiences
could help in that matter by showing their
appreciation of the few Australian turns
they do get, instead of being bluffed into
giving their loudest roars of applause to the
foreign goods.
THE CHORUS MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m glad I’m not a chorus man
Upon the stage parading,
To amble forward with my clan,
And caper like a frisky Nan
The fair soprano aiding.
I’m glad I’m not a chorus man—
There’s times when it's degrading.
1 would not do my sex the wrong.
I would not swank and flutter
While someone sang a rotten song.
I'd hate to gibber with the throng
And hoot the hoots they utter.
I would not do my sex the wrong—
I’d rather sweep the gutter!
I would not dog the tenor round
In wig distinctly brummy,
Nor wag my arms, and buck and bound,
Nor rag with gravity profound,
And grin and gape, Lor’ lumnie!
Before I’d dog the tenor round
I’d be a barber’s dummy.
They’re always “coming to the front.”
According to their showing;
They talk about their little stunt,
Worked with an imitation punt,
And weird pretence of rowing.
They're always coming to the front —
Gorstruth, why ain’t they going?
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


mmm
oNimi
<s*
III!
I A Heart-to-
Heart Letter
from a Grateful Mother.
Chats wood, 26/8/’l5.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Dear Sirs,-’-
i have now used your
Infants’ Teething Powders for
12 years, and always keep them
in niv house when my babies
are teething. I feel sure many
little lives could be saved if
mothers would use them dur-
ing dentition. This is now
the ninth child I have used
them for, besides recommend-
ing them to many of my
friends, who all say what a
boon they are. My baby is
now six months old, and I
have given him the powders
since he was one month old.
All my children are alive and
well. Yours respectfully,
* Mrs. J. E. JOLLY.
FISH Eli'S INFANTS’ TEETH-
ING POWDERS •
are invaluable for infants cut-
ting their teeth. They promote
digestion, stop sickness, flatu-
lency and pain.
They contain no poisons, and
an overdose is harmless.
Sold only in Boxes: 20 Pow-
ders, 1/-; 60 Powders, 2/6.
ĥ
FISHER & CO.,
Chemists,
337 George Street,
F.U.T.P. SYDNEY.
ħ
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
mm
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees‘of sound in eight
adjustra jnts, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booldet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, ROCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Oil Your Gun
with
“3-IN-ONE”!
Leading Firearm Manu-
facturers invariably use
and recommend
“THREE - IN - ONE.”
. This clean, acid-free Oil removes
dirt and grease, reduces friction
and makes action-parts work truly.
Prevents pitting and rust.
Cleans and polishes the
wooden stock.
Sold everywhere. A postcard
brings free sample from—
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
HARRIS STREET.
N.Z. _
mAines-14'
AVON
n
w TRADE MARK _j
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THRCUGIOUT
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Lare-est and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best , Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
nmurmns • Hon A W Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. It. J,
Black,' MLC. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., ICC.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH, BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,525. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
Mf/VU
M
Very " faddy ” with his food
Was Mr. well, let's call him ‘A ’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him in a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
Merely made him take to flight;
But ‘Jelloids, ’ happy inspiration!
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking IRON ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
©
Mr. M. M. Hvatt, Isleworth, writes : —“ I have derived considerable
“ benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids ’ —my appetite has returned, and I am feeling
“quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1J- and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd, or. Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
h
ĥ
os/ocA
SHOES are exquisitely cool and light in the
hottest weather, yet none of your dowdy,
canvas shoes either but smart, .elegant, in
the fore-front of fashion. Most Australian
women will have sighed for such shoes, and here
they are in the latest shipment of Bostocks. The
model illustrated is delightful even in picture
form. But think of it in reality, a light, grace-
ful shoe of finest moire, built in that new, short-
fronted shape so thoroughly French, and made
with a dainty Louis heel. If ever there was
an ideal shoe" for smart wear in hot weather, it
is certainly this one. Then for other tastes,
there are other shoes equally charming in this
Bostock selection. The shoes are unmistakable,
and have the name Bostock stamped on the soles.
Bostock No.
P 0458
ħ
h
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Do not miss the latest Bostoek ship-
ments now on view' at the leading stores.
G
FT
S-
-2
ĥ
BAPMET^H
GLASS
RUBBER
NEELS
Mackm Australia."-
Go Your\
in Comfort
(Qf\)
Why advantage of the comfort
offered by Barnet Glass Rubber Heels >
The springy, resilient-rubber stops all jars
and shocks to the spine and ddubfep the
pleasures of walking. Barnet
Heels are' made of the purest Ymterials
a view to giving faithful
service.V Jnslit on "Barnet Glass."
All Boot and General Stores.
RUBBER CO. LTD.
rom
AIL STATES
•nd
N.Z.
ħ
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Wo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insulficiently stamped.
Wame and address must appear on the MSS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Donald McL.: (1) Don’t know the
origin of the toast, “Here’s the skin of your nose ;
(2) Don’t know the address of the worst woman in
Sydney. She used to live next to the Cathedral, but
she's shifted, according to the Religious Editor. He
says she was a fraud, anyhow. .. .Cato: Slovenly pars.
We’ve got no use for anything but a mans best -
and these are just flung out anyhow. .. .W.H.H.:
Thanks Bellairs: Richard, that’s an ancient and
very dead wheeze to serve up.... John C.: Thank
you; letter returned... .C. Ludowici: Much obliged.
'....Red Cross Fund: There’s one in Castlereagli-
street, Sydney, between King and Market streets....
G.L.11.: Bullets are off and the pistol controversy
is in cold storage.... C.L.: Nothing to-day, thank
y0u.... Ripley: Not up... .M.A.R.R.: Every line
bitter commonplace... .A.G.S.: Pretty hopeless....
J.E.: Faint humor in it, hut spoiled by hogg’ish
items... .V.K.: Don’t know whether they’re “fit for
puplication,” but "they have a long way to go before
they’re fit for print.... Ame Perdue: No beauty, no
music, no honesty.... Cameo: It’s a new problem.
We pass it on : —•
.. . .A.T.M.W.: Why do you set your verses to the
tune of a sewing-machine 5.8.: It is advisable
to get at least one suggestion of an idea into every
two dozen lines... .J.L.8.: “Rider of the Storm
just misses. . . .L.C.D.: Rotten... .R.W.C'.: Well,
there’s no yarn in that. .. .M.J.M.: Too slight....
Country Ped: The most uninteresting Murphy we
have ever met. .. .J.E.8.: Not up... .W.M.8.: Be
admire your typewriter, but not your verse....
A.S.E.: The Jones birthday humor is bewildering
stuff. If Welsh festivities are like that, it might
go far to explain Billy Hughes... .J.D.: All that
space to say that a baby girl was shy the first time
she went into a shop! A.R.G.: “Newchum” melo-
drama doesn't convince... .R.H.C.: “Devil’s Gift”
has a forced, tired 100 k... .P.F.: “Shadows” and
“Dawn” not quite g'ood enough...-.Verax: Garbage
of classical scraps and insane phrases in vile hand-
writing H.McC.: As far as it can be read, not
quite up ; but some of the scrawl might mean any-
thing J.L.D. :It was a dull spider that crawled
through your ink to wobble out that weary yarn....
W.L.H.: Out, obscene railer !.... J.E.C.: If your
stories are as awful as your verse they have
no hope S.A.P.: You have the ideas, but not
the method. Watch your rhymes and scansion and,
for Heaven’s sake, write as if you intended your
copy to be read R.N.W.: Handwriting impossible.
So is your yarn. .. .K. 8.: Take it away and bury it.
Have we struck all the bad handwriting in the world
this week? A man who writes like that can’t be
honest... .Wul-mul: N0....8.K.: We don’t reprint.
. ...T.E.S.: The writer who makes an Australian
soldier say, “Brother, when say you can a man be
sure that a fight has been won?” has no eye for
“c010r”.... S.M.: You say it’s a “true story.” But
the rhymes are false L.M.: Can’t stand “sleep in
endless night” and “night’s sable wing.” You have
enough skill to avoid overworked phrases.... J.8.C.:
Your verse makes a noise between the whirr
of a lawn-mower and the clatter of a
typewriter. “Spring” ought to have a sound
like running water and blowing leaves....
E.M.E.: Spanish mixture unintelligible... .P.J.C.:
Verse rather rough. . . .L.W.: “Apostrophe to Militar-
ism” is a sorry bleat on a paper trumpet.... Zero:
“Oh, why was Kaiser Bill e’er born?” Can’t imag-
i' ne, unless it was to provide reams of bad verse....
St. J.: Dull. ... V.M.D.: Nothing in it.... Seaport:
The Germans have done nothing worse... .U.M.:
Much as we admire the French, this paper is, as a
rule, printed in English... .V.F.K.: “Love’s First
Symbol” bumps, slops and repeats commonplaces.
. ...A.J.8.: We don’t reprint... .R.S.T.: No hope
for a versifier who hasn’t got beyond the notion
that Australians are “colonials” ; and not much hope
for you, anyhow. All verse published is paid for... .
H.G.: You have a nice flowing style. Sample:—
They growl about the wheat getting the bunt,
And the least sign of rust makes them grunt,
They complain about the heavy, sticky land,
Or it maybe the hungry, drifting, useless sand.
They go on in this way, and when they want to sell
their farm,
They find that by their croaking they have done
themselves harm,
And that buyers do not rush them as they thought,
But act as though they were afraid of being caught.
The croakers have only themselves to blame,
If, in this way, they give farm life a bad name,
There is no getting away from it, I am not joking,
This country is being spoilt by people croaking.
. ...Rilbee: Doesn’t get there... .C.K.: Consigned
to the tropic suburb indicated. . . .Homer II.: Rhymes
vile, grammar worse, theory insane... .E.P.: No
good....Aisla Craig: Don’t think the Sentimental
Bloke would regard that as much of a “b005t”....
E. : You mean well, but ....Isabel: Not for
us, thanks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.H.0.D.: It’s very small and serious. .. .0.5.: No
full page—no full anything... .W.S.: Too sad and
far too du11.... A.D.D.: Feeble scratchings....
F. : Wooden disarrangement of ideas... .Keith
F.: No fun or decent drawing in it. ...K.G.: An
impossible small boy and a highly improbable old
man... .E.V.H.: No value... .V.d.F.: Small and
early... .J.M. You must have been looking at the
holy picture on the wall when you were doing it.
. ...S.P.M.: No reason why you shouldn’t. Try,
anyway.
Iu matters of State economy it is often
difficult to know where the line should be
drawn, but the Vic. Education Department
has a pretty fair idea of the correct thing.
In the winter there are Government tires
in the administrative offices, but no Govern-
ment fires in the State schools. Any warmth
there is contributed by the parents of the
school-children. One infuriated mamma
complained the other day in the daily press
that her little Willie, in order to help with
the firing, had to carry a billet of wood
and a lump of coal every day to school!
This sort of thing isn’t national economy—
it’s simply one of several mean habits from
which the Education Department doesn’t
seem able to free itself.
Where on God’s Earth shall we cast them,
The Bones of the Kaiser Cursed ?
In which fair Country of Europe
Shall the “Dust of the Hun” be nursed?
Defile not proud Belgium who fought so
For FREEDOM with might and main:
For France the Fair, —O Rulers,
We crave for her the same.


rt
o
mb c
69
which assists in the initial maturing process in the production of Meggitt’s Linseed
Oil, made for and under local conditions at Parramatta, New South Wales.
PAINTERS, Kelp to make Australia prosperous by insisting on
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL.
FARMERS, feed your Milkers, Calves, Pig's, Horses, Poultry on
one ration per day of MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL*
I
I
1
i
This Big Silo is a Section Only of Meggitt’s Works.
For all particulars re Oil and Oil Meal write Agents : Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide ; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane ; Harrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne; Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston <sc Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD.. Linseed Oil Manufacturers,' Parramatta, N.S.W.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN L>,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Placis, Sidney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDXKY
IiIiI%BAXE
IiOCK HAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
H'AIIiXS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
BOMBA LA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 29.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 2.
Leaves Sydney August a.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 9.
Leaves Sydney August 12.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNK. M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 QueeirYictoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
. (Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SURSCRTBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND .. .. £75,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, EX'.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todaian, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth.
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. •• £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. • • • • 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. •• 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Grav, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada* South Africa, China, the East.
fhe Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£2,000,000 0 0
1,805,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Coiien, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ivater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of lieu l Z ea|an d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital .. •• ••
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500.000
2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETMEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAI LAlvi-.s,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
Steamers.
*NTAGARA
I MAKERA
"NIAGARA
t MAKERA
Regd. Tons.
13.500
8,100
18.500
8,100
Disp. Tons.
20,000
12,000
20.000 •
12,000
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins Uv Luxe, suites, dcuhcuu —•-
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA,
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available lane.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MOAN A, 17th August. * MAIT AT, 14th September.
"Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—loth August, 7th September.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to Amerlca-
K.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £48; Second Class, £33.
Winter
Tours to Fiji
Lovuka,
Suva.,
Lautoka,
Samoa A * ia ’ Friendly Islands
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OP N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Tonga
Something* Unique in
-
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties ot the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3.500.000
£2.675.000
£3.500,000
£9.675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithful], Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, L.-'i.u., .U.1..C.
The Mon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard E.l*eeliff Laklley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson. Esq. c
Head Office— George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle -t . E C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, 1- 131, Papua and J.ondon.
Tffltss jsst n» nj*. »">■.
tinted and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued throughput the M orhl.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
h
Bank-Biistalta
SYDNEY.
Open
for- all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. I'oreisn
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest i*id
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all
2600
Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
INTERSTATE and
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorertior.
INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
June, 1916 DENISON MILLER. Governor
COMPARE THE ADVANTAGES
offered by the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales
—The STATE Savings Institution
(Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney)
and
DEPOSIT YOUR SAVINGS IN THIS BANK.
Deposits RECEIVED from 1/- upwards.
Accounts may be opened in the depositor’s OWN NAME, or IN TRUST for,
or JOINTLY with, other persons.
„ xsrisu* s watS;--' ■ ~ ~
By order of the Commissioners.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOll MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, July 29 and
August 26.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, July 29.
PARING A, August 5.
RUPARA, August 12.
Saloon Passage Tickets arc interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., 1/ri).,
Agents, 6 BIUDGIi STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,”
" Dlimaroa,”
"Rivcrina,”
‘Westralia,”
‘Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA- HO N O L U L U
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
AUG. 2, AUG. 23, SEPT. 13, OCT. 4.
'ppiy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and. Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
' Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPH Y. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
15IRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; MciLWRAITH,
VIcEACTI ARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
[I. ,10NF,S k CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lar! v to: —
l WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Bs. 6<l. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £ 4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Qu'ckly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLjEAR_COMPLEXM)N.
Vhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple,* comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
.Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Siuvf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Suloholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
T Pepper&Co.. Ltd.,Bedford Laboratories,London,
SE England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.


ffIPDNJ
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirtv factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
V
Little Lectures
by Nurse ‘Wincarnis
(Lecture No 4.i
Weakness
Every movement of the body
uses up a definite amount of
vitality. When you overtax
yourself, or your vitality is
undermined by illness, your
whole system becomes too !
exhausted to recover its lost ,
vitality without assistance.
Your system is like a plant
that is drooping for want
of water. And just as
water revives a drooping
plant—so ‘ Wincarnis ’ gives |
new life and new vitality to
a weakened constitution. I
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker, and a Nerve
Food—all in one. Therefore
h
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it
doing you good. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend ‘ Win-
carnis,’ especially to those
who are Weak, Anaemic,
‘Nervy’ or Run-down.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 6-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book"'” CUKES Writefor Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Enfe
Insist on “ Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes.
3
Va
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
Commonwealth of Australia.
How YOU Can Help Win the War.
Every man. every woman, with money to in vest, however much or little, can
help to win the War by lending it to the Country now.
It is not a favor you are asked, "but a privilege, the privilege of doing your share
in helping our men —your men —at the Front.
This reason alone must appeal more strongly than the rate of interest,
unquestionable security, and other advantages.
Employees of Australia.
Your mates are fighting your battle. Are you prepared to help finance them t
£1 down and £1 a month will pay for a £lO War Bond. Surely you can spare
a little for your Country from your wages.
Buy War Bonds for yourself, for your Wife, for your Children, but above all
buy them.
ALL INFORMATION, FORMS, etc., at any Bank, Savings Bank or Post Office.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE Ist AUGUST.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
19th July, 1916.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them ‘‘Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
mm
.
Restore the Voice with
■HIB ■ Ekg »*antisepticTHßOAT
EVANS Past Wes
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
c
'O-
r SAFE-in your pocket.
You can carry an Onoto Pen in your pocket
without fear of it ever inking your clothes. It
cannot leak !
That’s why the Onoto is the best pen for those who wear
fine uniforms, or who are the least particular about their
dress.
The Onoto is self-filling ! Dip the nib in the inkwell.
In five seconds it is filled without any mess or soiled
fingers and it holds sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
The nib is of fine gold, iridium pointed, and cannot
wear out. It runs smoothly and evenly over the paper —
does not splutter or scratch —and adapts itself to every
style of writing.
The ink flow can be regulated to suit any speed when
you use an Onoto.
Cet one to-dav from any Stationer —from 12/- upwards
If you want to know more about the Onoto Pen
write for our free booklet.
T. De La Rue &. Co., 199, Bunhill How, London, E.C.,
Australasian Agents, Norman Baker & Longhurst,
SO York Street, Sydney.
O N OTO
Self-Filling Safety
Fountain Pen
Government Notices.
QOMMON W E A L T H OF A U STR ALI A.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE.
NOTICE.
War Precautions Act ' 191-1-.1916.
Requisitioning of Rabbit Skins.
(1) It is notified foi* public information that, the
Commonwealth Government has decided to requisition
rabbit-skins suitable for military requirements, and
has appointed authorised agents for such purpose.
(2) The authorised agents are Wm. Haughton &
Co., of—
-255a George Street, Sydney ;
515 Collins Street, Melbourne;
Currie Street, Adelaide;
C/o A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart; .
C/o Lee & Co. Ltd., Launceston.
(3) The maximum prices which the authorised
agents will pay for rabbit-skins requisitioned for
military purposes will be, until further notice:
First Winter Skins, “Sleeved” ... . • 1/8 per lb.
First Winter Skins, “Butchered” or
“Slippered” •• •• ••
Second Winter and First incoming
“Sleeved” • • • - - - • • 1/® »
Second Winter and First incoming
“Butchered” or “Slippered” .. .. 1/1 ~
The sum of 2/6 per cwt. will be allowed in addi-
tion to above prices for packing, etc.
The above prices are for skins delivered at such
places in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart and
Launceston as ‘the authorised agents order, in
thoroughly dry condition, free from ears, meat, leg
bones and tail bones. For skins not complying, with
the foregoing- specification an allowance in price must
be made to render them equal thereto. Typical
samples of the skins required will be available for
inspection at the offices of the authorised agents.
(1) Terms of payment—Cash on delivery.
(5) Every owner or person in possession of rabbit-
skins is required to deliver them up when called
upon so to do at such time and place as the author-
ised agents appoint, and any owner or person in
possession of rabbit-skins who refuses or fails to
comply with any requirement *of the . authorised
agents in connection with the requisitioning of
rabbit-skins shall be guilty of an offence.
(6) Owners or persons in possession of rabbit:skms
are called upon to classify them and notify the
authorised agents that they are ready for inspection.
It is not proposed to requisition all rabbit-skins, but
only such skins as are selected by the authorised
agents or their duly-accredited representative as
being required for military purposes. The classes of
skins required are those mentioned in paragraph 3 of
this notice. All skins not requisitioned by the
authorised agents after inspection will be immedi-
ately released to the owners and will be entirely at
their disposal. . .
(7) 1. Every authorised agent or Ins duly-accred-
ited representative is empowered to: -
(a) ask questions and require the production of
documents in relation to the purchase, sale, dis-
posal or origin of any rabbit-skins, or the actual
or probable supply of rabbit-skins and;
( b ) enter at any reasonable hour in the day-time
upon any premises or place in which there are,
or are believed by him to be any rabbit-skins,
and inspect any rabbit-skins therein.
2. Any person who refuses or fails to answer
questions or produce documents asked for or required
in connection with the requisitioning of rabbit-skins,
or who resists, obstructs or in any way interferes
with an authorised agent or his duly accredited
representative in the exercise of his duty in the
requisitioning of rabbit-skins, shall be guilty of an
offence.
PENALTIES.
Section 6 of the War Precautions Act 1914-1910
provides that any person who contravenes or fails to
complv with an Order made in pursuance of the Act
is guilty of an offence, which may be punishable
either summarily or upon indictment.
The maximum penalties are:- —
Upon summary conviction, a fine of one hundred
pounds or imprisonment for six months, or both:
Upon conviction or indictment, a fine of any amount
or imprisonment for any term, or both.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Bth July, 1916.
HORLICKS
■MALTED
■■milk
in
***•«
*v-
The Wise \
Housewife
has her shelves
wisely stocked,
jusi as the
wise shopkeeper
keeps his store supplied with
the right articles. Horlic.k’s
Malted Milk (Milk, Wheat
and Malt; should be an
essential article iri the store
cupboard in every properly
equipped home. It is so
nutritious, palatable, and
easily made. No cooking.
It has been rightly named by
som' “The Ideal Food-
Drink’- by others “The
Powdered Energiser."
Ask for Horlick's Malted
Milk at the Soda Fountain.
Write for sample, sending
2d. in stamps, to Hutchin-
son & Co. Ltd., 26 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd., Lome
Street, Auckland, & Dixon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
pj
£
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, (Id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news Rom Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian.
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Allan 8 Stark Ltd.
BRISBANE.
K
The
Suit
20/-
Military Hat
with Emu Plume
and Chin Strap
or a Military
Cap, similar to
that worn by
the Expedition-
ary Forces.
4/6.
“The Dardanelles”. is a Military Suit
made of the best quality Khaki Gaber-
dine. The make and finish is excellent.
The Tunic buttons to neck, and has
four military pockets with Y-shaped
flaps to button over. The shaped
Breeches button at knee, and are lined
with Ferguson’s Silesia. Putties to
match. All sizes 4to 10.
A Sale of
Furniture
that is creating;
a sensation amongst
furniture buyers.
The first sale in our fifty years’ trading
—and a wonderful success! The whole
of our Vast Stocks of Queensland-made
Furniture, the product of our own
Factory, and of Bedsteads, Bedding,
Carpets, Curtains, Linoleums, China,
Glass, etc., have been greatly reduced
in price. Everything has been reduced
at least 3/- in the £, but most things
more than that; for example:—
3-piece Siberian Oak Bedroom Suite,
£55; Reduced to £3B/10/-
8-piece Oak Dining-room Suite, unhol-
stered in Moroccoline, £22/10/-;
Reduced to £l4/17/6.
Maple Hall Stand, £5; Reduced to 80/-
Oak Chest of Drawers, £4/7/6; now
£3/7/6.
Send for Price List.
Better still —call.
John Hicßs &. Company Ltd.
George and Ann Streets, BRISBANE,
IN
BANANA LAND
Premier Ryan probably earned the bis-
cuits and beef-tea he ate on the voyage.
Anyhow, the Privy Council upset the High
Court decision in the Eastern case, and
thus definitely settled, it is hoped, the ques-
tion as to the liability of Governments for
acts of negligence by licensed pilots. It has
generally been laid down in Australia that
when pilots are guilty of carelessness the
State is not liable for damages. Last year,
however, the High Court decided otherwise
when a Queensland pilot landed the E. and
A. liner on a shoal; and it was to put an
appeal before the Privy Council that Tommy
hopped off to London.
“Politicus” : The recent death of Foxton,
one of the longest-lived (politically) of
Bananaland’s public men, reminds me that
of the Pliilp Government which went out in
the debacle of 1904 Philp himself is the only
elected _ Minister who is now alive.
Foxton’s best feature was the concern he
always showed for the aboriginal popula-
tion. Prior to his day Warrigal had no
advocate in Parliament; but the loud-voiced,
domineering Home Secretary was a genuine
friend to the black remnant.
Two elderly gentlemen, Tolmie and
Rankjn. are the total contribution to the
war .ranks from the 120 legislators who
make up the Queensland Parliament. Yet
fully 50 per cent, of the 120 are men appar-
ently eligible from age and physique, and
numbers are unmarried. Further, Queens-
land is- supposed to be more accustomed
than any other part of Australia to the idea
of universal service, for Sam Griffith carried
a measure over 30 years ago compelling
every citizen from 18 to 60 to serve in the
Defence Force.
P.F.” : A few years ago there was much
complaint in Bananaland that Japan had
stripped the country of its best horses for
remount purposes. Don’t you believe it.
Only a few days ago one of the surviving
(alleged) weeds got on to the Babinda rail-
way and knocked over a locomotive and
four trucks.
Oliver Holmes Woodward, who can wear
a Military Cross now, was born at Tenter-
field (N.S.W.) and is an old boy of New-
ington College, Sydney. He was one of the
most brilliant students of Charters Towers
School of Mines, collecting honors in 11
subjects in his three years’ course, as well
as the Browne memorial medal for mining
and metallurgy. After getting his mine
manager’s ticket in 11)10 he had a job at
Mount Morgan, and was looking after the
development of the co.’s prospecting shows
in Papua when Bill broke loose. Woodward,
who is now a lieutenant of Australian
Engineers in France, is a nephew of J. 11.
lieid, partner of John Moffat, of Irvinebank,
old-time mining king of North Queensland.
Rockhampton District Court lately saw
the three card trick illustrated without
having to pay a copper for the fun. Two
keen blades were charged with taking down
a Russian with the wearisome old swindle,
and, the defence being mistaken identity, one
ot the accused—a flash colored ge’man—-
asked the Court’s permission to play a brief
game and see if prosecutor could recognise
NOT THAT SORT AT ALL.
“Politician , isn't he?"
"Oh dear, n o—very decent chap.”
i f as the one he’d dropped his money on.
The Court agreed and “Nipper” got busy.
"Now, here y’ are." lie said to the Russian.
"Two red cards and a black. Keep your
eye on the black, and see if you can pick it.
There —you see the black right., under your
eyes. I turn tlie cards down, so. Now,
which is the black?” And of course Bruin
picked the wrong one, and couldn’t pick the
right one even when there were, only two
on the table. It was a fine exhibition of
flashness —so fine that the Judge thought
Brudder Johnson was best inside for six
months.
The Shire of Taroom contains 5,000,000
acres, and it is stated on good authority
that to-day not one holding is free of
prickly pear. Where are Dr. Jean Bell and
Oliver Cromwell Roberts? They s&ray and
talk and talk and spray, and meantime the"
spiked helmet of the vegetable Hun peeps
daily over more advanced entrenchments.
There is a powerful and growing feeling
in the country districts of Queensland in
favor of conscription. So many men have
gone from the smaller places that in many of
them there is hardly a family that has not
a representative at the Front. All these
households naturally favor compulsion. The
country—the true Australia—is almost
solid: it is only in the big towns, which
are too cosmopolitan to be anything, that you
find the apologists for the shirker.
The King’s Arm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Kings have long arms, my dear, my dear....”
“But your horse is swift and I ride so near
And the will o’ the wisp that rules the fen
Will play a trick on these monarch’s men,
Will lead them floundering round and round
While we go safe on the steady ground.
“Oh, I saw his eyes on your face last night,
His strange dark, eves in their mask of white,
And I saw the Queen’s glance follow him—
Poor patient Queen —and her eyes grew dim.
She may remember (God fend her heart!),
As she sits soul-chilled on her throne apart,
.In days when she was as young and fair
How his eyes followed her everywhere.
“She has seen so many come and go—
The flsher lass with her breast of snow,
The gypsy girl with her jetty brows,
'They all have reigned in the dower house.
But you....put spurs to your grey jennet
We will win the hills; we shall foil him jet!’’
The witches ride on their brooms to-night,
The moon peers out with a ghostly light
Over the black pits and the moss
And the shallow ford where the lovers cross;
But a warm inn-liglit on the dark night spills—
They have left the bogs, they have won the hills 1
The hills that cover the lowest stars,
The loyal hills with their long brown scars ;
And the straggling pines and the mountain flowers,
The friendly hills with their guarding towers!
“O little pigeon that fled the lure,
O mistress mine, ye shall sleep secure,
Where the scented heather the whole world fills
With a lullaby of the wind i’ the hills!
“For better be this than flick of gem,
And a scarlet shame for a diadem,
And a crushed white rose to ease the drouth
Of a great king’s ever-thirsting mouth.” v
She laid her down on her small white bed,
A cross was hung at the curtain’s head ;
And the window over the black ravine
Was tightly closed with a bar between.
He slept, worn out by his long night ride,
Outside the door of his hard-won bride—
Slept and dreamed of the happy chance
That would land him safe with his love in France;
Slept and dreamed of a filling sail
That would bear them out on a splendid gale.
When morn tripped over the world’s wide floor
He rose and tapped at the chamber door.
The light through an open window shone
As a vacant bed it glowed upon,
Picked a silken slipper from out the gloom;
A knot of ribbon. . . .an empty room. . . .
What dastard reiver has entered here?
“Kings have long arms, my dear, my dear!”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 22, 1916.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
We are all working with our coral-like
ears set back for the lied Cross hunt next
Friday. Huntresses will pad all parts of
the city, and the committee has been feeding
them on raw steak for weeks past to make
them tierce.
Button Day is also assuming a threaten-
ing aspect. Two-tliiids of tne proceeds will
go towards tilling the dug-outs of 20,000
men with comforts. The spare third will
be divided between other regimental funds,
except those of the 41st and 42nd Bat-
talions, whose promoters prefer to work
independently.
A bal masque in aid of the French lied
Cross was herd in the South Brisbane Tecii-
nical College to-night. French Consul A. J.
Carter and Mr. Giraud, sec. of our Ally’s
lied Cross, received the party, while Major
and Mrs. Pendlebury, Major and Mrs.
Weavers and representatives of the rabbit-
skin profession adorned the stage.
At the Women’s Club on Thursday night
two papers, one giving some information
about the late Mr. P. B. Shelley, and the
other contrasting Jane Austen and Char-
lotte Bronte, whose Irish father, as you
remember, my dear, was born Patrick
Prunty, were served up. The business of
the gathering was knitting, and before
settling down to the job, each woman un-
loaded a pair of socks, or something equally
good for the men on active service.
Some' time ago Rosemount, a beautiful
home on the Bowen Bridge tramline, was
lent to the Red- Gross Society until the end
of the war, for ‘use as a convalescent hospi-
tal. Now I hear from an Anzac who
is at present being repaired there that the
sick and wounded are not permitted to
enjoy the gardefi, the same being reserved
for the use qf the staff. Neither must the
battered inmates enter or leave the premises
by the front gate, the side gate being con-
sidered good enough for them. Now, who’s
been getting some wrinkles at Shepheard’s?
Miss A. Doyle, a Cairns maiden, is on
her way home from Sopth Africa, laden with
spoils of the chase. ■ .Rude man, who insists
that lovely woman cannot hit a haystack
unless she aims at some other object, is
invited to inspect the peelings of lions,
elands and monkeys which were bowled over
by the lady. This is a case where the
beasts were not drugged, as is the practice
when distinguished visitors (such, for
instance, as the Kaiser’s hopeful, wffien he
contributed to the gaiety some years ago)
are on the warpath.
That energetic Bananaland soldier, Col.
Brand, D. 5.0., continues to distinguish him-
self. His mother, who lives at Bundaberg,
was the proudest woman in the North the
other day when a cable told her that her
son had been promoted to Brigadier-General.
According to sister Room, who can't
leave London, the latest matrimonial threats
for the near future were those of Capt.
Robert Hughes Dunmall, of Westralia, and
formerly in the Eastern Extension Co., used
towards Nell Winten, of Hamilton (Q.), a
daughter of a pastoralist elan; and of
Alfred Charles Jefferyone time of Brisbane,
directed towards Marion Cliown, of Hove,
Britain. Both weddings were to occur as
immediately as possible.
> A scientific party of considerable tonnage
is out on the Barrier reef near Cooktown,
studying marine life. Dr. Elkington,
Bananaland’s chief of quarantine, is the
moving spirit, and with him are Professor
| r vmi (^ a ®™ an i an Lnn), Iledley (Sydney
Museum), Chief Justice Herbert Nicholls
Y a ?’’ and .Jh' s> and Anton Breml.
the Institute of lropical Medicine at
lownsville. ' .
lours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Maryborough buried its oldest inhabitant,
Henry Palmer, the other day. He lived to
be 95, notwithstanding the debilitating
climate, etc. He was the first mayor of the
town, and still found time to amass much
wealth. In the old days he acted as agent
for immigrants, looking after them whilst
they awaited bullock drays to cart them
Outback to the stations. One particularly
old and almost inseparable friend attended
the funeral. Someone left the gate open,
and the old man’s aged horse, without saddle
or bridle, followed his dead boss to the
resting place.
The other day Home Secretary Huxham
visited Westbrook Boys’ Reformatory, and
these are some of his subsequent remarks: —
The place is dirty and the boys are dirty. I don’t
think some of them wash once a week. Their hair
sticks out through the crowns of their hats, their
clothes are ragged, and their toes show through their
boots. Yet we have received no requisition for
clothes. There are no night-officers to watch the
boys. I found no attempt made to educate them.
The staff is totally inadequate, and the sanitation is ~
bad. No inducement has been given them to reform.
Of course the Government is going to make
a change. But so that the boys shall not
find it too sudden, control is to be given to
manager Jones, of the Warren State Farm.
He has been quite successful so far with
pigs and poultry.


/ADJUSTABLE
/ DIVIDED
FRONT SEATS:
□
OVE R LAPPING \
WIND SCREEN
'
n.
585
SIDE
VIEW
sil
©©
Each successive StudebaKer model Has
brought Motor-car designing one step
forward.
Motorists agreed that the first 1916 models were
the last word in motor-car excellence
And now —in the middle of the
season —a new and special model
A
Li
0
r
G
V
O
c
OR
Series 17 is here
Embodying even better value than ever before.
Incorporating a series of refinements in the general design, these ears stand
supreme as the QUALITY cars of the season —typical exemplars of the highest develop-
ment of motor-car production by one of the world’s ablest and most highly-organised
man u facturing institutions.
Greatly increased volume, coupled with Studebaker’s unexcelled manufuetuiing
facilities and experience in designing and manufacturing motor-cars of the highest
quality, have enabled us to offer these new Series 17 models at moderate prices.
But it has long been axiomatic in the industry that Studebaker QUALITY is never
to be measured by Studebaker PRICE, and the new SERIES 17 cars are only to be
considered on standards of quality applying to cars for which you are willing to pay much
higher prices—as the highest achievements of this GREAT manufacturing institution
that for 61 years has held the esteem of the world as a QUALITY manufacturer.
We urge every man who expects to buy a car, no matter at what price, to see the
new SERIES 17 models before he decides. We are prepared to give demonstrations Xol\ .
MORE REFINEMENTS.
ADDED COMFORTS.
GREATER CONVENIENCE.
PETROL TANK, 15 gallons capacity, removed from
cowl to rear of chassis.
STEWART VACUUM FEED SYSTEM set on intake
manifold.
Longer Clutch and Brake Pedals—adjustable to height
of driver.
DIVIDED FRONT SEATS ADJUSTABLE TO PASSEN-
GER’S COMFORT.
MORE ROOMINESS EVERYWHERE.
More conveniently-arranged instruments indirectly
lighted.
Overlapping Windshield, completely stormproof.
Richer design Mudguards.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
177 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
VICTOR!A —TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA-ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Perth
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LIMITED, Adelaide
QUEENSLAND— CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
TAS VSANIA— W. H. GAH AG AN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND—ADAMS I ,LIMITED, Christchurch
/STEWART \
VACUUM fEFO
PETROL
TANK
15 GALLONS
CAPAC ITY
I
AT REAR
OF CAR


An Easy-fitting Boot
Semi-American Freak Shape, in
Patent Calfskin, with Dull Kid Tops,
Roomy rounded toes. A well-made
Boot.
25/- Post Free.
Write for Catalogue.
naaiD
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
lip fßßfTett
Hd'patictiJ |r<*ars
. ‘Restore
ic>-
■
□r B. Allen’s
MBS! GAN
WALNUT
■ft
Public Announcement
The Radio Health Institute
begs to intimate to its numerous patients and in-
tending patients that it has moved to larger and
better-equipped quarters at Station House, ltawson
Place, Sydney.
“WE RADIATE HEALTH.”
The Radio Health Institute is under the able
direction of Prof. Adams, M.A., LL.D., D.Sc., grad-
uate of Harvard and Columbia Universities, the
discoverer of the marvellous Y-ray and Uni-direc-
tional Hertzian wave current, by which use lONIZED
OXYGEN is introduced into the system, expelling
death-dealing disease germs and literally permeating
the deeper tissues of the body with the vitalising
force of Etheric Electrons.' This form of treatment
embraces all the recent scientific discoveries emanat-
ing from the celebrated therapeutic institutions at
Paris, Nancy, Erussels, London and New York.
All the results of the researches and discoveries
in the realm of Electro Statics and Ray Science are
faithfully and skilfully utilised at the Radio Health
Institute.
The imfccted Static generator employed by Prof.
Adams and used solely at the Radio Health Institute
is at once the most costly, modern and the most
effective instrument now in use in any part of the
world. Its marvellous curative powers transcend the
most sanguine expectations of the most far-visioned
optimist.
Prof. Adams is a scientist of exceptional ability,
and after many, years of painstaking study has dis-
covered a POSITIVE ozonic ray, the Y-Ray, whose
potency vastly transcends the emanations of that
rare substance known as radium. The antiseptic
attributes and miracle-working powers of the V-Ray
invest it with peculiar value in the treatment of
open wounds. Eczema, Acne and every form of skin
disease speedily vanish under the healing touch of
this curative force. Atrophied muscles are restored,
and sufferers from the graver forms of disease, such
as paralysis, locomotor ataxia and rheumatoid
arthritis, find material benefit or an absolute cure.
At the Radio Health Institute we radiate health.
Pain-stricken, diseased, distressed bodies and worry-
worn minds are introduced to the sunny-souled god-
dess of health. Our patients are courteously treated,
and all receive the personal supervision of Prof.
Adams. As only a limited number of patients can
lie treated daily, disappointment may be avoided by
arranging appointments in advance. Hours, from
g3oa m. to 5 p.m. Address all communications
to Department 8.. Radio Health Institute, Station
House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
m
£
m
Ji
o
£2
es
•feVo
S 3
49
:•: ; -
✓
mm
Messrs. Ashton |& Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your courtesy! if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the I cost of postage
| refunded to you. | 1
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
tSe Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
Vhosferme
Proven Remedy
FOR
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine hss received such absolu'eprooi c. it«
exjmordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNewLi eand Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probab y the greates*
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons’ Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES, M.D., C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Three Sizes—
I'A K.p.
M h.p.
3 }‘z h• p.
13
The EVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt, pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION AND SPORTS.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
ħ
OH MIGHT WIN THIS
5.650
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
2nd prize value £399, 3rd prize value £399,
and 397 other valuable prizes
Prizes Value £3,500
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Barnett, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAV E A CHANCE FOR 1916.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November 9.
To any person forwarding stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or
direct from JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
I
THE.
oNAL
S «'V
H
rl.. tfiAS
i=M•
IjlijBI:
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £610,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE,
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Esq., Chairman: EDWARD TRENCH ARD. Esq.. Vice-Chairman;
; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Svdnev Office. 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 300 George St.
5 * Manager: R. S. GREGSON. ' Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
h
If any illustration appearing in 'xiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tlio
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Dyer" : Talk about tlio shortage of dyes
to the proprietor of a dye business and lie
weeps; talk to the dyer who has to person-
ally use the rubbish which the dye specu-
lator palms off on his boss, and lie curses
like a bullocky. The boss groans and weeps
because he says lie can’t get any true-blue
German dyes now at any price, and his fool
of a foreman can’t make shift with the fake
stuff. I know a dyer who experimented
with local material in cotton blacks and
blues, and got a fair result—encouraging
enough, anyway, to warrant further experi-
ment. lie showed the work to liis boss and
asked assistance to continue. But the hide-
bound boss thought otherwise. There was
the expense, the uncertainty of successful
results—all the deadening arguments that
have tripped up Progress since man learnt
to talk. But Private Enterprise shouldn’t
be allowed to hold up the procession that
way. The search should be carried on by
the nation at the nation’s expense.
“X.”: The X. 8. Wales Department of
Agriculture thinks very little of the com-
mercial possibilities of poultry-raising if the
salaries offered for positions on the experi-
mental farms are anything to^ judge by. A
position of instructor at Wagga in poultry
raising is advertised at £lOO a year, with
board and residence. What sort of success
can students be expected to make after leav-
ing equipped with the knowledge of an
“expert” worth only two quid a week and
tucker? It recalls G. B. Shaw’s wisdom:
“He who can, does; he who cannot, teaches
others.”
“Try Fluke” : It’s about time the hopeful
Maorilanders who finance the periodical
treasure-hunts to the Auckland Islands real-
ised that whatever was dropped there by
the gold-ship General Grant, out of Mel-
bourne, is beyond reach. A stop certainly
should be put to these hopeless endeavors
by the report of Captain Cotting, the
skipper of the cutter Enterprise, which
turned up at Stewart Island the other day
from the penguin-roosts. The Enterprise’s
shellbacks made a determined but unprofit-
able try for the alleged treasure, and
Cotting’s fixed opinion now is that it was
recovered in 1869 by a party which went
to the Aucklands in a hooker named the
Daphne. But whether or no. there’s
Buckley’s hope of getting it after 50 years
on an appalling coast where there is an
almost continual raging surf—and especi-
ally when nobody knows exactly where the
ship was battered to driftwood.
“Fru”: Prior to the war there was a bit
of an industry known as "the imperishable
fern trade.” Maiden hair and other ferns
were cut here, dried, and shipped in bulk
to Hamburg. There the industrious Huns
got to work and by a process known only
to themselves revivified the Australian
vegetation and dyed it so as to look like
the fresh fern. In this form some at least
was shipped back here and sold at a good
price as everlasting fern. I have a speci-
men over two years old which looks as if it
had been gathered a day or two ago. The
war stopped the industry so far as the Hun
was concerned, but it needn’t stop us.
“Copabella”: There’s a man down in
Footscray trying to do his bit for Australian
industry. For many years he had manufac-
tured a common pattern of turned-leg kit-
chen chair. When the war caused the
Austrian bentwood species to be passed,
except by city councils and railway depart-
ments. lie decided to be a pioneer. First lie
tried to secure the man who knew how. but
without success. Russian knowledge
stopped at a three-ply bottom; Austrian
experience wasn’t available. So the Aus-
tralian had “to work it out himself, experi-
menting with home-grown timbers and home-
grown processes. He is making good, slowly.
Working in blackwood he has succeeded in
getting the right bend on the legs, the seat
rings and the struts, while the curve of the
back rail will pass muster. But he hasn’t
yet succeeded in making the bentwood back
and legs in one piece. The bottom he still
has to import: the other problem he works
at nights and Sundays. The chair is a sub-
stantial article, heavier than the Austrian,
the blackwood being very weighty. In
appearance the advantage is all with the
Footscray sea£. But the actual producing
cost —listen, you tarilf-shelvers ! —is about
75.; the cheaper-grado Vienna article used
to be landed for about Is. 3d.
*.* * *
“Yarrum”: I admire thrift, but it can
be overdone. A well-known vet. in N. S.
Wales had ordered a cocky to destroy a
diseased cow. and on his return to the selec-
tion some time later asked what had been
done with the carcase. “Gev it to the
pigs,” said the cocky. Everything about a
farm that the hens, dogs and other animals
will not touch goes to the sty. Cocky will
tell you that the pig is 0.K.. so long as
he is “topped up” with corn. No. thanks;
no pork to-day.
LEAD AND SHOUTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alilson said that lie shouted for another man
until they both got drunk, and then the man led
him into the trouble. The magistrate said that
many cases had come before him of lead being
stolen from houses. He imposed a sentence of three
months.- — Police-court report.
The skies are full of flying lead ;
The fields are full of shouting men.
All shouting in the bar is dead
When six o'clock comes round again ;
Hut in the fields lead rains at night
And shouters carry on the fight,.
The battle knows no closing hour,
And shouters drunk with rage and fear
Press onward through the leaden show’r.
The S.M., pen behind his ear,
Says in a voice quite cold and dead,
‘‘Another case of taking lead!”
One shouts and braves the leaden gale
And thereby wins the bronze V.C. ;
Another tells a moving tale
Of shout and lead. Ilis months are three.
The cannon’s lead makes heroes’ sport ;
ltoof-lead means gaol in any court.
x.s.w.
THE LITERARY PLUMBER.


t
v&mz
*n&
a
Hr <3
2 I
ir I
a
i
a
'A
e'
?2
r i
;s?
%rT:S^,
mm'.
Co
.'3
f?V't
-
c 2,0 _
* * O -.it
i
gyOspi
f S'?#%*> A*. -'jg*
&J
x
f^i
\
• ■ c/ v
J
JJ
6f?/?NNY
(COPYRIGHTED)
Neves* Neglect 01\il6ls®cfiL , ’S Colds.
“ Few mothers realise the danger of a cold. If your children have colds don t say ‘ they will wear off and let it go
at that. In this condition they are easy victims to scarlet fever, diphtheria, whooping cough, etc. Ward off these
serious consequences by breaking up the cold at once with
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
If voiir children have the sniffles, sore throat or watery eyes
do not hesitate to take them from school for a day or two so that
you mav break up the cold they have. A day at home and a few
doses of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will quickly drive away any
cold.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy should be given at the first
indication of a cold; it will not only relieve the cold, quickly but
counteract any tendency of it resulting in pneumonia. This has
been proven in many epidemics of colds and influenza. Although
thousands of bottles of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy are sold daily
the manufacturers have yet to hear of a single case of either of these
diseases resulting in pneumonia when this medicine was used. 'lhis
shows that it is a certain preventive of that dangerous disease.
When Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is given it not only relieves
a cold but strengthens the bronchial tubes, thus warding off that
irritating cough that often follows colds.”
All retailers are authorised to sell Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy under a guarantee ; if it does not
do all that we claim we will refund the price paid.
%>ux.a J<n JfeaJ&C
ĥ
ħ
4
h
YOU CAN WEIGH AND MEASURE WHAT YOU
SHOULD IN PROPORTION TO YOUR HEIGHT.
During the past eight years 10,000 immaturely-
developed men and women have been developed to
correct weight and proportions by
FALLIERE’S “ FF” TREATMENT.
An advertiser who offers something for a coupon and attempts to collect lor
it later is guilty of endeavoring to obtain money under false pretences. Should
we collect we would be liable to a criminal charge.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON.
Good for 134 worth of our
Famous “ FF” TREATMENT.
FALLIERE CO., Sydney.
Please send to me, in exchange for this coupon, which i*
the equivalent of the actual cash, 13/If worth of
Falliere's “ FF" TREATMENT. I enclose sd. in stamps
to ensure prompt delivery. I have never had a free trial.
STATE
MR., MRS.
OR MISS.
Xante ■■
Btir,.
Address
O
P 4
P
O
xfl o
Ph
P*
£
Only one free supply allowed, one iamily. Tnere are no strings to tnis otter.
SEND COUPON TO-DAY.
OFFER FOR 30 DAYS ONLY.
SEE
WHAT
OTHERS
SAY OF
IT.
LET US
SEND YOU
SCORES OF
SUCH
GRATEFUL
LETTERS.
(5811)
GAINED OVER 141 b.
The Manager,— Minlaton, S.A.
Dear Sir, —Since using your treat-
ment I have gained over 1-Hh., which
makes me now 11 stone, so that 1
have no need for any more treat-
ment. Thanking you for your kind-
ness, —I remain, yours truly,
S. DANNENBERG.
The Manager,— Atherton, Qld.
Dear Sir, —I am very pleased to
tell you that I have improved under
your treatment, having gained 101 b.
in a couple of weeks, and my ne'gh-
bors are remarking the great change
in my appearance. I need no further
treatment, and am showing your
papers to any of my friends whom
I think I can induce to take your
treatment. —Yours faithfully,
MRS. J. W. JAGGERS.
GAINED SATISFACTORILY.
Tlie Manager,— Emerald, W.A.
Wear Sir, —I do not think 1 shall
require any more treatment, as I
have gained satisfactorily in weight
and measurements, and my health
has never been better. Thanking
you very much for all your kind
attention to me.—T remain, yours
faithfully. MRS. H. MCDONALD.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
From August 1, 1910. our
treatment, which has always
been supplied as “Flesh-Food,”
will be known as Falliere’s
“FF” TREATMENT.
FALLIERE CO., 1103 Ash St., Sydney (Est. 1907)


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
GENTLEMEN DEMAND
style, fit, quality and comfort in
their footwear. They get them all
in
ABBEY SHOES
We illustrate a fine Velour Calf
Derby Shoe. It will take a high
polish.
Pries - - 25/-
Glace Kid 25/-
Also in Tan ... 25/- and 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
DAIMLER
SS£\
*'*<.&*
sotor Carriages
COWERCIAL VEHICLES ~
Agricultural Tractors
the DAIMLER COMPANY tv
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving; Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
The Lake Breeze Motor
h
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
D9916.—T he New
Circle Brooch, set fine-
quality Diamond, in
Platinum and Gold,
£4/4/-
D992s.—Circle Brooch
in Platinum anrl Gold,
with simple but refined
Diamond setting,
£4 10s.
D 9924. —Three Dia-
mond Circle Brooch-
in Platinum and Gold,
choice pattern,
£5 10s.
D 9918. Handsome
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum and
Gold, newest design,
£5 10s.
K6e New Circle
BROOCHES
At STEWART DAWSON’S
are making a strong
appeal to those who
appreciate refined
Gifts that possess
also the charm of
Novelty.
D 9926. —Very Choice
Design Circle Brooch,
set with fine quality
Diamonds, in Plati-
num and Gold,
£lO 10s.
ALL THESE BROOCH ES have Pure Platinum Fronts and 15ct.
Gold Backs, set with Fine-quality Diamonds.
EVERY GIFT SEEKER should possess a copy of Stewart Dawson’s
Latest Catalogue of Rings, Jewellery and Watches.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
THE TREASURE HOUSE, STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Certain-teed
the Reefing
IDEAL
ROUGH NESS of method and especially developed processes make Certain-teed
A the roofing ideal. Finished with a hard, protecting surface of mineral in pl ait,
it possesses the same appearance and durability as the surface of an asphalt-topped road.
Certain-teed is used the world over. Prominent architects everywhere specify
Certain- teed— Because:
Suddenly changing temperatures do not affect it ki the least.
It will not buckle, blister, creep, nor crack, and it cannot dry out.
It is impervious to the destroying action of vapors, acids, smoke
and gas-laden atmosphere.
Your distributor carries a full local stock. He will fill orders promptly. Secure samples and prices from him.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. COMPANY
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products:
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: FACTORIES:
New Yorlc and San Francisco, U. S. A* York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and
Cable Address: ‘Genromco’ E. St. Louis, U. S. A.
Australian Office: Perpetual Trustee Building, Hunter Street, Sydn3y.
Full local Stocks carried by John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd.,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ; Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Trade
a
HUNDREDS OF SHAVERS
-f
S-
who have tried no end of so-called “Safety” Razors declare that
THE: “PLUM” RAZOR
is the dandy of all shaving instruments. Never a blade was
made to equal it. Requires but little stropping; shaves in a
“jiffy” and in one act of lathering.
PRICE 10/O—POST TREE.
We keep it in order for two year's, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/C.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 307-
All the above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
SCH UTE, BELL, & Co I Ltd
: SELL WOOL &„SKINS,
w-
, v . '
Why not give them a trial ?
Personal attention to all consignments.
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST models just landed.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
•Sole Australasian Agents t
Benson Brothers Limited
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
ĥ
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
ħ
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caiile Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
Motor Accessories
“We have it—will get
it —or it isn’t made.’’
We have the Motor Accessories, you want at
prices that drive away dull care. These are
a lew: FORI) Electric . Lighting CONVER-
SION SETS, 30/-, complete with bulbs.
WEED Anti-skid CHAINS, all sizes, from
£2/5/- set. SEMENTOL—to stop that leak-
ing radiator, 6/-. Hellensen Flash Cells, Hot
Shot Dry Batteries, all sizes. Write us for
full particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334=336 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
KING OF METAL POLISH
Made of the finest oils, contains no acid,
no ammonia, nothing injurious. Gleans
and polishes. Quickest of all. Imparts
a brilliant, lasting luster to doorknobs,
brass railings and all bright metals.
Sold in two size cans by all
Grocery, Hardwaro and Drug Stores.
Look for the Photo on Can j
h
ĥ
■
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Telegrams—
Australia,
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
flas accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite' of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.


Y\\ Hi
V *s.
v...
i. %'• r ; ft-' '•>
IV i
ECZEMAS AND RASHES
Itching and Burning Soothed by
Cuticura. Trial Free.
The Soap to cleanse and purify, the
Ointment to soothe and heal. Relief,
rest and sleep follow the use of these
super-creamy emollients and indicate
speedy and complete healment in most
cases of young and old.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Hunters of Big Game
use the Ross .280 Rifle and its
Special Sporting Cartridge (Pat’d)
Every day we receive letters praising the
accuracy and low trajectory of our .280
High Velocity Rifle and the tremendous
shocking power of the Ross .280 Sporting
Ammunition with copper tube expanding
bullet—patented.
The combination is esteemed, by the hun-
dreds of expert sportsmen and guides who
use it, to afford the very best equipment
for any hunter of larger game.
ħ
You increase the
chances of a suc-
cessful trip by
having the Ross
. 280 and its Special
Sporting
—Ammunition
Catalogue on applica-
tion to
Ross Rifle Go.
Quebec, Canada
1115
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
v///m/////////m/m? t
1
Clean Hair
Always
Try this plan every other
night sprinkle a little Icilma
Hair Powder over your hair.
Leave on till morning—then
vigorously brush it out again.
This will make and keep your
hair attractive. The dust and
grease will be removed and you
will begin afresh every other
morning with bright, clean hair.
Note.— The hair should still be
washed at regular intervals,
because a certain amount of
wetting is good for the hair.
idlHI
Hair Powder
The British-made Dry Shampoo.
Price 3d. Packet.
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. Gambles & Co., Agents,
22 Commerce House, Melbourne.
a h. 3.
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVCURL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon. became a mass of wavy curls.” Result cer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Send 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
./■> •
KJ
WK»JLP
w
asaw#
&
Ml
0
2
9
V
8
BIG BEN
uz
For Sound Sleepers
An early start soon
gets the best of a
hard day’s work. Set
the time for any hour
you like, Big Ben will
ring you up.
Two o’clock or five
o’clock, dark as a
pocket or broad day
light, it’s all the same
to Big Ben.
Just set the indicator
and think no more
about it.
Big Ben ticks off the
seconds till the rising
hour arrives, then wakes
you with his tuneful call.
You can depend upon
Big Ben.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial—a
cheerful, deep toned voice—large, com-
fortable winding keys—a light running
movement with watch-like escapement
—an alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred inspec-
tions in the making and six rigid timing
tests before leaving the factory of the
Western Clock Co., La Salle, 111.,
U.S.A., Makers of Wcstclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12,6; postage !/•
extra.
1
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
uschenSalt
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287*289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
The Inky Way.
“Kettledrum”: There comes a time to
pressmen all when news is not worth 30
cents; so I, when even cables pall, find rest
in the advertisements. I weary me of read -
ing how the Austrians are on the jump; how
Ilollweg smites his fevered brow, and how
the Kaiser’s heart must thump. I take no
note of submarines that sneak across to
U.S.A.; I care not if there are no means of
getting there some other way. It matters
not a whit to me if Wilson stands upon his
head, or writes a Note or lets it be ; I do
not mind what Itoosevelt said. The things
that move my sluggish mind, replace the
twinkle in my eye, I look hot in the news
to find, but rather seek them on the sly.
Page 1, of course, is bare of ads., but
oftentimes upon Page 3 I find Dame
Fashion’s latest fads, and much therewith
that pleases me. There is the Ostrich Neck-
let Girl, who from her column shyly smiles;
and lower down, amid a whirl of hair that
seems to stretch for miles, a damsel stoops
to wash her head, as I am told maids often
do ; most frequently my eyes ai-e led to that
dpcollete shampoo. And then the Photo-
graphic Peach, the beauty of the studio, ap-
pears to have so much to teach—and there’s
so much Ido not know! There’s nothing-
much upon Page 4, except a movie ad. or
tw r o ; the Cough Cure Grandam I abhor, for
she is old, and I am, new. Some odds and
ends of hats and vests are bordering the
cable page; they thrill me not—my interests
are elsewhere at the present stage. I turn
the leaf, and straightway flush a covey clad
in filmy things whose buxom beauties make
me -blush —this ad. the praise of corsets
sings. Right here my wife asserts her sway,
and drags the paper fiom my eyes—but I
have seen enough to say: “I’m glad that
people advertise.”
* * * *
From the cypress column of the Argus': —
In memory of my dear kind son, Willie, who fell
asleep in the Murray River.
The casual Australian again.
“Black Rock” : I surrender to “Pejay” on
his claim (B. 29/6’lG) regarding the an-
tiquity of Portland Guardian. But he is
wrong in saying that it and the Geelong
Advertiser are more ancient than Mel-
bourne Herald. The latter is the oldest
Yictorian paper, born on Jan. 3, 1840.
George Cavanagh, who came from Sydney,
was its founder, and it was he who hobbled
it with the dreadful “Impartial, not neu-
tral” gag, which hung round its heels until
a year or so ago. It was a morning paper
at the time, and remained so until 1869,
when it began its career as an evening yell.
Geelong Advertiser, which sent its first
forme to press in November, 1840, has the
second-best claim to an old-age pension. It
beats the Portland Guardian by nearly
two years.
* * * *
“Lou”: The lady’s visit to Australia to
help in the six o’clock campaign reminds
me. Years ago I was a shandygaff hand in
a Melbourne printery where the big monthly
job was a wowser journal. Next door was
the ungodly Weekly Shocker office, and
one night, when both sheets were being-
mangled out, the Shocker double-royal
broke down as they were printing the inside
page. After an interview with me (head
serang for one night only) they brought in
their forme and paper. We lifted the
Wowser, put on the Shocker, and were
running it off nicely when our fly-boy
dropped a spanner in on the type and settled
a photo-group of variety artists. The
Shocker man was safely asleep in a Hack-
ing case, so we lifted the damaged block,
got one of Mrs. Harrison Lee, temperance
lecturer, out of the Wowser, and dropped
the poor lady into the gap in thp Shocker.
I’ve often wondered since whether the good
woman ever knew that in one desperate
week she went out to the Shocker’s little
world as something extra in high-kicker
circles.
“Chasuble”: They take a long while to
understand. Chaplain Goldsmith (styled
“Chaplain Admiral” by the mariners who
haunt Melbourne Wharf Sailors’ Institute)
has just issued a number of his little Jot-
tings From Our Log. He also habitually
distributes a monthly magazine received
from London entitled Church and Sailor.
In his last Jottings he apologised because
the Melbourne subscribers have not received
any copies of the English mag. for months.
Why? Because an order went forth from a
Government office in England that it must
not go to neutral countries, and Australia,
home of the Anzacs, was classed as neutral!
I wonder whether it was wise, after all, to
coin that new word Anzacs? It might have
given us better and much-needed advertise-
ment had we stuck to “Australians.”
•** * *
“Dalriada” : An excited quadruped, “Dun
Brown,” canters into print in B. 13/7/T6
with the statement that Melbourne Herald
published a photograph of a young man
with the remark that he “has the distinction
of having been the first to receive one of
the medals issued by the Defence Depart-
ment to those medically unfit for service.”
Would the Herald, he asks, supply a photo-
graph of a youth who had acquired the
“distinction” of failing to pass the matric?
Possibly not. It didn’t even publish this
young man’s photograph. What it printed
was a replica of the medal itself, mention-
ing incidentally the name of the first man
to receive it.
* * * *
“Full Point”: Most of the superior Maori-
lnnd dailies expurgate such words as
“drunk,” “Phryne,” etc. I “took” the
‘Magistrate’s” and the “Supreme” one day
and had just sent up half a dozen sides of
the first sort when a hurried note came
down from the sub. to say that “drunks”
must be .“inebriates,” and “Phryne” “a
female of doubtful character.” Also that
first-offending drunks must be “persons
charged with over-indulgence.” From the
Supreme Court I sent a note asking the blue
penciller how the I was to decorate the
co-re.; and I’m still waiting for an answer


We Sell only RELIABLE SPORTING GOODS.
Our Motto Goods Right-Prices Right.”
A SATISFIED CUSTOMER Is oar best advertisement, THAT’S WHY we endeavor to always sat.s y.
TENNIS REQUISITES.
A
3
7
f-/f
&
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
RACKETS.
(Postage on one racket: N.S.W., Or],
other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Handicap, full size
C. 8.8. Special
M.S. Champion
C. 8.8., cork handle ..
C. 8.8., Quadruple ....
M.S. 11 ay market
Haymarket, Special
Haymarket, Selected..
Havmarket, Ex. Special
Ay're’s Handicap
6/-
»/6
11/6
13/6
15/6
22/6
27/6
35/ -
37/6
15/6
Ayre’s A 1 1.0 /0
Avre’s Double Central.. 18/9
Ayre’s Champion .... 25/-
Ayre’s S.N.D 47 /6
Slazenger’s Renshaw .. 10/-
Slazenger’s Demon .... 23/0
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 29 / -
Slazenger’s E.O.M 38/0
Slazenger’s Doherty ... 42 /0
Slazenger’s Stadium ... 47 /0
BALJjS.
do?;.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
(Postage on one
Each.
Grey Regulation.. - / 6
Grey Regulation, -
superior ... •- /1 O
Challenge, covered 1/-
Avre’s Court, cov’d 1 /-
Doz.
5/6
9/-
11/-
11/6
Dunlop Champion
Haymarket Special
Ayre’s Champion
Slazengev’s Cham-
pion
Each. Doz.
1/6 16/6
1/8 18/6
1/8 19/-
1/8 19/-
NETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line—
-13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
h
HAYMARKET
..SYDNEY
GOLF |M ATRR I A L.
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
CLUBS.
Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d. :
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/6, 7/6
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6
J. Braid’s Drivers and Irons 8/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/- . _ 0 /«
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9 Brassies.. 5/6, 9/6
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters \n/a
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite 1 u/ °
other States, 1/2.)
Brassies .. 5/6, 8/6
Brassies 9/-
Brassies 8/-
Brassies 9/-
Brassies 9/-
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other l/2.)
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Standard
Bobs Bramble ..
Zodiac
Zodiac, Small S.S.
Zodiac, Zome...
Black & White
Bramble ....
Challenger Bramble
Challenger, Star
Patent Colonel ..
Henley’s Why Not
1/8 12/-
1/8 18/6
2/9 30/-
2/9 30/-
2/9 30/-
2/9 30/-
2/9 32/6
3/- 33/-
3/- 33/-
3/* 34/-
Watson’s No. 10
Silver King (Yel.
Dot)
Silver King (Black
Dot)
White Dimple ..
Midget Dimple ..
Domino Dimple
Black & White
Dimple ....
Challenger King
Arch Colonel
Glory Dimple ..
Eaeh. Doz.
3/- 34/-
3/- 35/-
3/- 85/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 38/-
3/3 39/-
3/6 89/-
4/3 48/-
Waterproof
Solid Hide,
CADDY BAGS.
Canvas, leather bottom and sling—
7/6, 9/-, 12,
besi? quality 17/6, —1
/6, 14/6
/-, 25/-
k
=2^
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports List.
Post free to any address.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE^
We are Specialists in all kinds of
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
The True Safeguard
of Baby’s Health
iSllenbunjs Foods
THE milk of a healthy mother confers a de-
gree of immunity to infection to the young
infant. Many mothers, however, though
willing, cannot nurse their babies for various
reasons. In such cases the greatest care should
be taken in selecting a proper substitute. Ordi-
nary cow’s milk cannot be regarded as a sate
food for infants; it is acid, contains indigestible
curd, and is almost invariably
with harmful germs. By usin g the ‘‘Allenburys’ ’
Foods, which are free from all dangerous
organisms, and effectually replace human
milk, security for baby is ensured and vigorous
growth and health are promoted, dhe
“Allenburys” Foods are largely used and
recommended by the Medical and Nursing
Professions; they have stood the test of time
and have become a household necessity all
over the world.
The ‘Allenburys’ Infant Dietary
**l***fWH
irji3 m * r
l*tM'
sou mahumct
en^H»nbury4
Loo
■s/s/'C
MILK FOOD No. I.
From Birth to 3 months
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 7 months
htS*"*
IV™"
2225-J
AiuniHw^
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From 7 months upwards.
Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen £$ Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
ĥ
Simples* and Best
»Gold-Filled Wire Name Brooches
t HIGHLY VALUED AS A GIFT OR KEEPSAKE ]
ħ
Any Word or One Name or
i ' Three Initial Letters.
Pine Round Wire, Only 2/©
Heavy Twisted Wire, 4*/6
The best Token of Remem-
brance of an absent dear one.
Artistic, durable; best American
Gold-filled Wire.
post free
jpUrrrvp,
The Union Ml*. Cow, 299 Elittbeth. Street, Melbourne... ....
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for n
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
Wickham Street. Valley, Brisbane.
WRIGLEYS
h
SPEARMINT
the PERFECT GUM
i
isoa?
>JHE
JUVOR
]£STS
Remember!
When you’re hot and tired,
head awhirl, appetite gone,
digestion poor, throat
parched
Remember then
WRIGLEYS,
SPEARMIN
i
“ Chew it after every meal ”
r
This famous Chewing Sweet
quenches thirst, soothes the
throat, steadies stomach
and nerves.
Its delightful mint flavor
refreshes and benefits wonderfully.
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Ask for “ WRIGLEY’S MOTHER GOOSE” Book, free.
Be Sure It's Wrigley’s.
Made in Australia
4 FOR AUSTRALIANS
rl BY AUSTRALIANS '


ns~p
j,
sP'ryrLfhi xL ~ - -,
g-'-.j ♦
rvu
f-H
•
v 1 v
IT
m
3s
»—t
f —#
orz:
- 7^
A Few Bars of Australia’s Greatest
National Song', Written and Signed
by tbe Composer.
Mr. Marsh Little’s famous song, “Boys of the Dardanelles,” is known to everyone. On Anzac
Day it was played by' every band in the historic procession, and the soldiers marched into the
Lord Mayor’s Luncheon at the Town Hall, Sydney, to its stirring tune. Nearly 100,000 copies of
“Boys of the Dardanelles” have been sold, easily an Australian Song record.
In addition to Mr. Little’s wonderful gift as a Composer, he is regarded as one of Australia’s
most popular singers. He we s born at M.djee, N.S.W., and, wishing to benefit the many' Australians
who appreciate his work, he writes to us the following valued letter.—-
“It may interest you to hear that I regard your New Discovery as being a great
asset to singers and elocutionists. When appearing at the Opera House, Auckland,
N.Z., on the Fuller Vaudeville Circuit, I was so indisposed through a severe relaxed
sore throat that I thought I should have to step out of the bill. I could only deliver
my songs (in a song scena) in whispers. The stage-manager advised me try New
Discovery. I did, and the result was magical—my voice was quickly restored, and
I’ve been singing the praises of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery ever since.
“I am, cordially yours, “(Sgd.) MARSH DITTIfE.”
Stops Coughs——Banishes Colds.
When the cold winds blow and the Winter rain falls, then look out for Coughs and Colds.
Then is the time to put Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on the shelf where ail the family can
quickly find it when they wish. Dose a cold with Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery and the battle’s
won. Don’t let Influenza get you. Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery will keep it away. Stop that
Cough. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery will do it, and give you a chance to sleep at night.
Winter weather is best for our health if we only take care of ourselves and keep coughs and
colds and kindred ailments at bay with Dll. SHELDON'S NEW DISCOVERY. Price 1/6 and 3/-
D“Sheldon’s|
New Discovery
h
OUGHS
0 AND
OLDS
ĥ
The Jollywells
i
Now here’s a game
Takes steady aim;
Though JollywelVs. skilled,
His wife’s the same.
Their evening play
Drives care away,
4nd keeps them fresh
For ivork each day.
We hope that you
Will take their cue
And eat “Rex” Foods
As Jollywells do.
That Joke About
the Cook,
old though it is, is not yet quite played out.
“Dear” —said the wife —“I -shall have to do the cooking
now; the cook left to-day without warning.
“Not exactly without warning”—re-
plied her hubby—-“she told me this
morning to bring home some dyspepsia
tablets, but I didn’t quite get her
men ning.”
How very unkind of her not to tell
the poor fellow to brine home some
<1
feAAtp
m
lb N
“REX” Camp Pie
which is cooked by the “Hex” Chefs (who stick to their jobs year in and year
out), and comes to you surrounded by a firm jelly, all ready to serve.
Take home a tin to-night, eat it with any salad such as Lettuce, Tomato, Beetroot,
or just plain Piccalilli, and be independent for once of the Cook who took the
wrong turning.
“REX” CAMP PIE is sold by Grocers everywhere.
Also ask for—•
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce-
lain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
£
R
X
iM
ORMW
Temporarily out of Stork.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Peet in Jelly, lib. tins.
"Rex” Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tin
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tin
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Spellbound.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S~\ THE wind, 0 the wind in the rushes l
g 1 0 the slant of tlie pale long leaves
i M That the grey light sears and crushes!
0 the shameful garland of rushes
That the naked dawn-light weaves!
It was but yesterday we rode,
Four friends, our lances glinting gay;
No evil hap did we forbode —
I think it was but yesterday.
We rode to joust before the king
in yon spired town the march encloses;
Mv Alvs was to queen the ring,
Her "shy head crowned with royal roses.
At dusk there danced across the feu
A marsh light, beautiful and red;
Had I but fallen lifeless then!
My comrades crossed themselves, and fled.
They bade me follow, in God’s name;
Their voices died on the still water.
I waded out to the weird flame,
And saw at last the Marsh King’s daugh-
ter.
O the wind in the moon-pale rushes!
0 the yielding of supple leaves
When a slim shape cleaves and brushes
A path through the Minding rushes!
0 the wind that mocks and grieves!
She stood aloof among the reeds.
“To-morrow, young Sir Knight,” she
sighed,
“I'll lead you where your own wish leads,”
By her slow smile I knew she lied.
Clear as the crescent moon she shone,
I could not stir, to follow after.
“Fair youth, await me !”—she was gone—-
“To-morrow night!” trailed back in
laughter.
A day ago—a little space....
Once, stabbed with sudden doubt and grief,
I looked down at my mirrored face;
My heart dried, like a stricken leaf.
A day ago? A life ago!
Those old sad eyes within the water
Peered out, hope-starved, through locks like
snow,
And still I wait the Marsh King's daugh-
ter.
0 the wind in the desolate rushes!
O the plaint of the pining leaves !
But the wind still treads and crushes
The fragrant swaths of the rushes,
Waste wealth of ungarnered sheaves.
Ha oh year an hour, each hour a year,
No brave thought frees me from my
dreams.
I watch the reeds, the wind I hear
Alone, save when at times it seems
Thin echoes of a far-off May
vaguely through my bleak December.
Aou loved a sweet maid once,” they say.
Her name was Alys, I remember.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
“Marther.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MIIS. TVilliam Wiegald Nicklepitt
tiptoed into the dining-room, closed
the door with meticulous care and
turned a tragic pale face upon Mr. William
Wiegald Nicklepitt.
Mr. Nicklepitt reclined in a copious saddle-
bag armchair, with his feet stretched to an
ordinary chair on the other side of the
hearth.
William looked up from his book, and
glanced at Mrs. Nicklepitt. Apprehension
grew in his large, ox-like eyes.
“Well?” he said almost pitifully, with the
air of a man primed for the last vicissitude.
Mrs. _ Wiegald Nicklepitt stepped closer.
She pointed towards the kitchen, punctur-
ing the air many times with a rigid index
finger.
. “She’s got a man there,” said Mrs. Nickle-
pitt. Mrs. Nicklepitt spoke in a whisper,
with fearful precision.
“A man!” spluttered Mr. Nicklepitt
sitting . up. He restrained his natural
disposition to squeal just in time. His
v °ice, too, fell to a whisper: “In the kit-
chen?”
Mrs. Nicklepitt nodded sharply three
times. “She’s giving him beer!”
Mr Nicklepitt fell back into the depths
of the chair that almost engulfed his slim
figure. He seemed on the point of hurling
his book into the decanters on the side-
board, but restrained himself, partly out of
consideration for the value of the articles
on the sideboard, but also in some measure
from a craven fear of disturbing the party
in the kitchen.
“And only two bottles in the house!” said
Nicklepitt. “And those infernal Phillipson
people coming this evening ! The—the—
hound !”
Willie Nicklepitt screamed in a whisper
(it can be done) ; he tossed himself right
and left in his chair; he uttered little fierce
noises. Mr. Nieklepitt was not yet recon-
ciled to living in houses in which you could
not throw large articles about without in-
curring heavy expenses for breakages. The
most serious.disadvantage of moderate afflu-
ence was this compulsory respect for one’s
surroundings. Nicklepitt had not been
married long enough to be able to
swear unctuously and whole-heartedly in the
presence of his wife. In selecting a wife
one may indulge the refined and artistic side
of one’s nature far too much. When one
places oneself in the position of being unable
to give adequate, open expression to one’s
emotions, one violates a primal need of the
purelv animal man.
“The —the freckled griffin!” spluttered
young Mr. Nicklepitt. He blew little bubbles
in his anger. This trick of blowing small
bubbles in the corners of his mouth under
the stress of emotion was a peculiar habit
of Mr. Nieklepitt’s. “I’ll have to fortcli more.
I hate going into pubs for beer. I hate
coming out of pubs all over bottles. I won’t
do it. I won’t; so you can just drop the
idea.”
“Couldn’t you go and stop her, Willie?”
suggested Mrs. Nicklepitt in the smallest
imaginable voice.
William Wiegald Nicklepitt jumped out
of his seat. fie dashed G. B. Shaw’s
“Dramatic Opinions” down on the chair;
the springs shot it into the grate. Willie
caught up his trousers deftly, and fished
for the last button. It was gone. Securing
the all-important garment with a twist of
his left hand, Willie made for the door,
spluttering and babbling, a do-or-die look in
liis wild eyes, which at such times had a
curious affinity with soap bubbles, his small,
thin, ascetic face rigid with a splendid pur-
pose. His fingers were on the knob, he
paused, he vacillated. lie returned to his
seat, and flopped in it. There are thiugs
even a brave man may not be expected to
do.
Willie caught his wife's eye. Something
in it he resented. “Well, do it yourself!” he
said, still in a whisper. “Go on, go on, do
it yourself!”
Mrs. Nicklepitt shook her head. “I
couldn’t,” she faltered. “I—l try to, but I
can’t. I sort of fade away. My bones
melt.”
Willie clawed at his mop of hair. “You’re
weak,” he said. “You haven’t the moral
courage- of a cuttlefish. All you’ve got to
do is to rip out. Rip out, why don't you?
You’ve got to rip out at them or they
simply _ trample on you.” In his excitement
Mr. Nicklepitt had almost raised his voice,
lie dropped back to a whisper. “Rip out!”
he said.
Little Mrs. Nicklepitt was in great dis-
tress of mind. “But you can rip out ever
so much better than I can, dear. If you
would speak to her —severely, you know!”
Mr. Nicklepitt made little gurgling noises
in his throat. Fierce anger warred with
the necessity of repression. “A man can’t
go raising little hell in the kitchen,” he in-
sisted. “It isn’t his department. Fancy
me flopping about in the slops out there,
raving about duty arid conduct to a rigid
female with no more head than a hen, who
would slap the potato peelings in my- hair,
for all I know. See here, Nettie, fair’s fair
—that ain’t my half of the' contract.”
Mrs. Nicklepitt shook her head. “I sup-
pose you can’t,” she faltered miserably.
“She was telling me yesterday that the
master at one of her places attempted to
bullyrag her. She said she ‘swiped him
one’!”
“Swiped? Assaulted the man?”
“Yes —with a mop.”
“Jezebel !” hissed Willie. “Beelzebub’s
dam ! Splay-footed Amazon !”
A pop sounded from the kitchen. Mr.
Nicklepitt relapsed to the softness of his
chair. “The second cork!” he said. “All is
lost.” He fished the remains of his book
out of the fireplace, and prepared to resume
reading.
“Suppose we both face her?” Nettie sug
gested in desperation.
“Ilang her!” William retorted. “Hang
her!” he repeated, becoming shrill. “I’m
done with the she-fox.”
“Hush! She will hear you.”
William paled slightly. Both listened for
a moment. “The door’s shut?” said William
very softly. Mrs. Nicklepitt nodded. Wil-
liam breathed more freely. “Blast the whis-
kered she-cat, anyhow!” he said.
“We could have her in here, and—and
tell her,” Mrs. Nicklepitt persisted.
“You ring, then.”
“No, you ring.”
Mrs. Nicklepitt rang. She approached
the bell timidly, faltered, touched it sud-
denly, and then retired behind Willie’s chair
with marked precipitation.
“Come out!” hissed _ Mr. Nicklepitt.
“Come out.” He seized his wife’s hand and
dragged her to his side. “No ducking!” he
said. They were both pale. Willie’s lank
hair fell in wires over his haunted eyes.
They listened. A minute passed—two. •
“She's not coming,” whispered the master
of the house. A great sigh escaped him. He
had done all that was humanly possible;
nothing more could be expected of him.
Willie turned the singed leaves.
With sudden resolution Nettie went to
the bell and rang it sharply. William’s
gasp of anguish came too late to prevent
the calamity.
“Oh, I say,” he murmured, “now you've
done it!”
A few minutes of dire strain ensued, and
then the door opened and “Marther” entered.
“Marther” was about 25, a sound, well-
nourished, large-boned Australian virgin,
with 10 years’ experience of domestic ser-
vice to give her confidence in any emergency,
and a wholesome and imperishable contempt
for the heads of families and all those
miserable incompetents upon whom Provi-
dence has visited the necessity of keeping
“girls.”
There was a trying silence. Mr. Nickle-
pitt was deep in his book. Mrs. Nicklepitt’s
hand found her husband’s shoulder, and
clung to it.
“Ju ring?” ejaculated Martha.
“Dear me. yes, so I did,” said Nettie.
You —you might bring a log for the fire,
please.”
Martha looked at the flaming grate,
glanced scornfully at her mistress, and
bounced out. William turned his eyes on
his wife. They were full of reproach
touched with disdain. But when Martha
returned he was absorbed in his book again.
William had to make way for the girl. She
dashed a log on the fire. Her glance, which
William was careful not to meet, meant—
“ There, frizzle!”
“Nothin’ more?” said Martha. She made
for the door.
“Martha!” said Mrs. Nicklepitt timidlv.
“You have a visitor.”
“I have,” Martha replied. “It’s a con-
nection of me aunt’s.”
There was another silence, quite a try-
ing silence. William Wiegald Nicklepitt
was equal to the occasion. He looked up
brightly; he gave Martha quite a nice smile.
“Perhaps your friend would like a glass
of beer!” he said.
“Thank you, I’m sure,” Martha answered
disappearing. She might as well have put
the implied “for nothing” into words; every-
body understood.
“Oh, Willie!”
Mr. Nicklepitt avoided his wife’s eye
“Had to get rid of her somehow,” he barked
(but he barked in an undertone). “Fat lot
of good keeping the dashed animal standin’
(Continued on next page.)


6
m
Smarting, Soreness and Painful
Cracks Soothed and Healed.
What irritation arises from raw,
chapped hands! If the skin is at
all sensitive, some peoole suffer
more or less in this way all the
year round; but with the damp,
cold and frost of winter, the hands
and wrists become a positive tor-
ture. First, the skin loses its pleasant
softness, then there is a disagreeable
roughness and redness, followed by
cracking and bleeding, particularly in
the region of the knuckles and wrists.
This distressing condition is made worse
by drying the hands or face carelessly after
washing on a raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps
or any cold sores may lead to painful swelling
and inflammation. There is a danger of grit
and dirt getting into the cracks of the skin,
and setting up positive torture.
The trouble is utterly beyond the reach of
toilet creams and cheap salves, which possess
no medicinal value whatever, and which are
not of the least use when the tissues are thus
affected. Zam-liuk is the scientific Balm
which, in addition to allaying the inflammation and pain, and healing chaps and
roughness, also imparts a new and remarkable healthiness to the skin itself.
Smear Zam-Buk on at night, and wear an old pair of gloves till morning. The
effect of the application of Zam-Buk is delightfully soothing. Its pure essences
instantly soak into and thoroughly permeate the tissues of the skin, softening and
healing in a perfectly natural way—the unique Zam-Buk way. Keep a pot of
Zam-Buk handy, then, for your skin is sure to need its soothing and healing aid
these raw, cold days.
Zam-Buk
is
Soothing,
Healing
and
Antiseptic.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
CHILBLAINS BANISHED.
Mr. William Bacon, of Verner Street, Goul-
burn, N.S.W., says“ During the winter we
experience very cold, frosty weather, and nurse
the fire very closely. The inevitable result is
chilblains. I suffer considerably in this
resnect, having had chilblains on the feet,
hands and ears. I tried many ointments and
salves, but with scant success. I applied
Zam-Buk, and the first application drove out
the irritation and soothed the chilblains.”
CHAPS AND SORE DIPS HEADED.
Mrs. M. Boyd, 147 Toorak Road, South
Yarra, Melbourne, Vic., has suffered from
chapped hands and lips, and writes: —“I
always keep a pot of Zam-Buk by me, as 1
consider it invaluable for the hands during the
cold winter weather. I suffered from chapped
hands and lips, but a few applications of
the balm soothed and healed the smarting
chaps very quickly.”
ħ
NATURE’ S OWN HEALER.
Zam-Buk is excellent for
eczema, piles, raw places,
blood-poison, chapped
hands, cold-sores, had
legs, and heals cuts,
burns, scalds and
bruises. Of all chemists
and stores at Is. fid. and
3s. fid, per pot.
l'he “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made ; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the "ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POWNTPBN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Bequest.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
h
fPERFECTIOjf »XSELjq
77ie DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR.
See also page 4.
[ Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running::
3d. per hour.
B.H.P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device.
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible.
High Tension (waterproof) Rever-
sible Magneto Ignition, of the very
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze;
rust-proof.
Remarkabl e Simplicit
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Sole
Australasian Agents,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
t.
If any .illustration appearing in The
Bulletin f u es your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
there, snarlin’ like a scalrled ape. You ought
to complain, you ought. You did wonders, I
don’t think. That’s the way—everything’s
left to me. For two pins I’d go and throw
that fellow out.”
“No, no, you mustn’t do that.” Mrs.
Nieklepitt showed genuine alarm.
“Why not?” ejaculated the master. He
sprang up. The erect attitude necessitated
an expert rescue of the falling trousers.
Holding them so, a mere splinter of a man
of not more than eight stone, Mr. Nickle-
pitt did not impress the observer as an
effective instrument for hoisting unwieldy
objects. “Why not?” he insisted. “Dirty
scamp, skulking round a man’s kitchen, eat-
ing a man’s food, drinking a man’s beer!
Darned good hiding might knock some
decency into the swine. Suppose he won’t
go ?”
The sound of a sudden scuffle in the small
servery between the dining-room and the
kitchen put an end to Mr. Nicklepitt’s
heroics. He collapsed into his seat. Martha
was heard in vehement protest. A man’s
voice thick and articulate replied. The
dining-room door opened, and a large hand
appeared, holding a full glass of beer. The
hand was red, coarse and hairy, it jerked
about in the stress of the contest, and beer
was spilled on the carpet. Then a
face appeared. The face, too, was
red, coarse and hairy; the eyes closed
as an effect of advanced inebriety; the large
mouth wreathed in an amiable but uncer-
tain smile.
The intruder was still resisting force from
behind. He found it difficult to get the glass
to his lips.
“Dring yore ’ealth,” he said, and snapped
at the glass. “On’y prop’r dring yore ’ealth.”
He heaved his way into the dining-room,
towing Martha after him. Martha was
hanging on his clothing. “You come outer
this,” she commanded, breathless from her
valiant effort. “Come out of it, Jim.”
Jim leaned against the table, and broke
her hold by applying his left foot to her
waist line and exerting force, but not un-
kindly. Martha shot back into the servery.
.Tim had still some beer left in his glass.
He waved Martha an adieu, and looked
carefully round the room. At length he
located Mr. Nieklepitt. He met Mr. Nickle-
pitt’s eye and smiled fondly.
“Oh, there yar!” he said. “Looked in
dring yealth. Goo’ ole Marther sez you
stan’ beer. Well, I dring yealth, ’s one
man to ’nother.”
Mrs. Nieklepitt had retired into the cor-
ner behind her husband’s chair. Mr. Niekle-
pitt was sagged down in the saddleback,
helpless in this desperate emergency.
“Ony ri’ dring yealth,” said Jim. He
tottered forward, clutched at the mantel-
piece, and sank into the chair facing Wil-
liam. “Goo’ luck!” he said, and swung
the glass round his head, swirling the beer
all about the room. A deal of it went into
Mr. Nicklepitt’s hair. After all, Jim did
not drink. He looked darkly at his host.
“No ’fence,” said he sternly. “No ’fence.”
“Oh no, not at all,” replied Mr. Nickle-
pitt. He affected to find the situation
rather humorous. He laughed. “Not at all,
old chap,” he said.
“B’eause.” said Mr. Jim Willis cheerily,
“if there was any ’fence, I’d punch your
nose.” lie smiled most genially, and chipped
Mr. Nieklepitt gaily on the knee. “B’lieve
me I’d punch your jolly old snoot, you ole”
. Jim pulled himself up, his eye went
to Mrs. Nieklepitt. “Nearly said it!” said
he. He took careful survey of Mrs. Nickle-
pitt. and then nudged William and whisp-
ered thickly behind his hand: “Prirry girl.
Yer’ prirry girl. Why donyeh ask her shoin
us?” He had a moment of deep thought,
looking searchingly into the face of William
Nieklepitt. “Don’ know you,” said Jim.
“Don’ want know you. You sen’ for me
dring you’ realth. Tha’s all ri’. Dring you’
realth you insis’.” He examined bis glass.
It was empty. The face of Mr. Willis
clouded. “Wha’s this?” he said. “Where’s
beer? Don’ le’ no man dring my beer.
Frien’ or no frien’, mus’n’ dring feller’s
beer.” He broke into a happy smile again.
“Goin’ punch your jolly ole snoot,” he said.
“Knew I would. Le’s be ’appy.” He swung
a wild blow at Willie. Willie ducked it,
and backed away. Willie laughed. He still
pretended the whole thing was highly
humorous. “You arsk me ’aver dring.” said
Jim. “No dring. Goo’ joke. Funny man
m.'self —smash yer jore.” Jim laughed quite
heartily. “Smash yer jore,” said Jim —
“mos’ amusin’.”
But William Wiegald Nieklepitt was a
master of strategy. He opened the side-
board, and arose armed. “I suppose you
take whisky, old man?” he said.
Mr. Willis took it. He helped himself
to a full glass, and then in the nick of
time Martha arrived with reinforcements.
The newcomer was the dustman’s assistant.
The dustman’s assistant looked in, and sur-
veyed the situation with the eye of an ex-
pert.
“Remove him for a bob,” he said in a
business-like tone. “Take it or leave it.”
“I’ll give you half a crown,” gasped Wil-
iam Nieklepitt.
The dustman’s assistant got right down
to his job. Jim was hostile. There was great
doings in the dining-room for five minutes,
and while the clatter was at its highest
there came a sharp ring at the door.
“The Phillipsons!” cried Mrs. Nieklepitt.
It was the last straw. The Phillipsons
were buyers, they were Eminently Respect-
ables, people to be propitiated. Phillipson
was suspected of an intention of securing
AVillie’s big pastel, “Evening’s Ruddy
Glow.”
“You go,” hissed AA T illie. “Shut the in-
tervening door, smuggle them into the smok-
ing-room. Say the plumber’s in a fit.”
Mrs. Nieklepitt fled. Jim Willis went
under compulsion, but he dragged the dining-
table after him to the door. Then he over-
turned the ice-chest. In the kitchen a chair
was broken. He trailed the sewing machine
with him on to the verandah, off the veran-
dah, and half-way down the yard. Then
he passed.
After burrowing into some clothes, Willie
spent a pleasant evening with the Phillip-
sous, an evening devoted mainly to the
eccentricities of plumbers. It was at bed-
time Air. Nieklepitt said to Mrs. Nickle-
pitt:
“Why the devil don’t you sew some but-
tons on my trousers, Nettie? How’s a fellow
to stand up for hearth and home without a
button on his pants?”
In the morning Nettie spoke to Martha
almost reproachfully. Curiously enough
Martha was not resentful. “Acourse yore
pore ’usban’ didn’ know,” she said, “ ’n’ I'm
not denyin’ Jim’s too easy encouraged.”
EDWARD DYSON.
Three Little Inches.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fl packer from the store jogged easily
up to the magazine for fracteur, his
packliorse trotting after, lie did it
most weeks; sometimes daily, if mining was
brisk.
“Three cases!” he called to the magazine
boss. “Gelatine! Two on the chestnut;
th’ other across me knees!”
This meant a hundred pounds of the
deadliest, and he got forty-five shillings a
week for the job.
The keeper's wife accompanied the two
to the magazine on the mountain side —even
the advent of the store packer is an event
in the ranges. She carried an infant, a
toddler held her skirt.
Straps were buckled round two cases
and the explosive hung by rope grummets
over the horns of the pack-saddle. Another
long strap encircled cases and horse.
The packer was about to mount his riding
hack ready to take the third 501 b. of sudden
death across his knees and the saddle
pommel, when both men paused as a yell
rang down the mountain side.
On top of the ridge, upon whose side the
magazine perched like a white dovecote, the
Higgs brothers were getting props for the
new aerial tram at the Dead Finish battery.
They' had fallen one directly above the
magazine—a long, straight, stringy-bark
with not a knot or twig from its butt to its
tufted top. It fell up the hill, and Joe
Iliggs climbed and struck off its head
with a couple of swift blows with his axe.
The sap was flowing free, and the crash of
its falling loosened the pole in its thick
hark casd. When Joe severed the head the
slippery polished spar shot from its sheath
butt-first down the hill. It tore through
the low scrub, gathering momentum rapidly.
“Holy Father!” gasped the magazine-
keeper, “it’ll hit the magazine !”
The yellow streak was racing straight for
the wooden building!
The packer whip-chopped his packliorse,
and it started at a canter down the hilly
track, a hundred pounds of devastation
bouncing on its back. The hack broke away
and followed. The two men and the woman
started to run.
If this w r ere fiction the magazine keeper
would pick up the toddler in an effort to
save it first. But he didn’t. He just ran,
selfishly, primitively. The mother gathered
up the astonished toddler by the slack of
his jumper and all three fell blindly down
the pack trade? Up on the hillside the
Higgses could be heard making a frenzied
scramble to escape.
“Bah!” said the packer, bitterly, after a
few paces. “What’s the good o’ runnin’?”
The two men pulled up and turned
stolidly, fatalistically, to watch the flying
tree. The woman flung herself on her
hands and knees, the two children under-
neath her. muttering again and again:
“Mother of God! Mother of God!” The
toddler fought against the flapping white
apron that enveloped him. “Wanta see
out! Wanta see out!” he bawled.
Round the building ran a post-and-wire
cattle-fence about a chain away. The fence
twanged like a bowstring as the tree hit the
No. 6 top wire near a post. It seemed to
halt. Then it rose upright on the wire,
poised a second, turned over, and shot
arrow-wise, point forward, into the roof of
the magazine porch. The three listeners
heard the rending as it tore through the
iron, through the matchboard lining, then—
crash! —through the double wall of the
magazine proper!
It stopped, quivering like a child’s dart.
The two men watched, dazed. The toddler
freed himself from the apron and chirruped
“Dad!” gleefully. Then they went to see.
The spar was held rigid by the two walls
it had transfixed. Its drill-cut point
thrummed not three inches from a stack of
blasting gelatine!
The forty-five-shilling packer took his
third case of fracteur across his knees and
resumed his job placidly.
C. LLEWELLYN GRIFFITUS.
Middle Harbor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the darkness moved the tide
Sluicing in on every side ;
jSI Pallid, spectral, far withdrawn
Gleamed the stars that herald dawn.
From the distance, down the breeze
Came the sound of snoring seas;
But for these things all was still —
Tree and rock, and cove and hill.
Mystery, with misty hair,
Wove her wonder everywhere.
Touching with her magic hand
Tree and headland, reef and sand.
Throned she was upon the steep,
Mirrored in the velvet deep.
Every tree beneath her spell
Seemed a tall, still sentinel.
Where the silken waters crept
Through the mangrove roots she stept;
And, at times, it seemed that she
Sighed and whispered audibly.
Underneath her wonder power
Slumbered bird and bee and dower.
Then, behold !—her thraldom ceased,
And a grey light tinged the east.
The world, awake, stretched limbs and lay
A moment thinking of the day—
The toil, the task it .might not shirk ;
Then yawned and rose and went to work.
Then shoreward, rowing soft, we went,
Thrilling the while with whole content;
Each rock-pool gleamed a golden well,
And all was as a miracle.
N.SAV.
RODERIC QUINN.


w E ST INGHOU.SE
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
I
is 11!
W;o§
iPB®
Wmm * Hi
Fiji |* iLffe
*. :• \lrv. e ■ , £MKH3i.,.X£G2r>.(i
TT |£VW fa* * jtt> KWgm M
X i;xj ft * ; ' ■,„
fpff? ""
L'"tf 41
m -
m
JmRWIMW . ,
-■
r***^
Halil mm w;!',, 1
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency,
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
r estinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne m Zealand Office: 93-107.Featherston st., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
h
DON'T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER'S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color, it cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper. & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
safeguard you r HealtH
otJXotlis Broyiujs
CMoradne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
FREE!
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— AGENTS TOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
HOTELKEEPERS !
Just follow the same advice of up-to-date
people in the trade who are using
Eckersley’s Dispensers
1 ' ** — 1 *
ĥ
for making
Draught Aerated Waters.
R. BRUMBY. Atherton (N.Q.), says:—“Your machine has
done all and more than you claim for it.”
M. A. CHAPRIN, Commercial Hotel, Tara, (Q ) • “Any
hotelkeeper using your machine will quickly be con-
vinced of its utility.”
K * W. RIDDLE, Royal George Hotel, Valley, Brisbane:—
“A comDlete success.”
DICK CAVIRR, Coronation Hotel, S. Brisbane*
keeper should be without it.”
‘No hotel-
E. M. WARSH Central Hotel, Ipswich (Q.) :—“The quality
of tiie Aerated Waters produced is unsurpassed/'
Eckersley’s Dispensers are now installed in many of
the leading houses in Australia.
Write for particulars to: —
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 25a George Street West, Sydney ; and South Melbourne.
TAKE
9
if you have the hump
tool with 5
'
Is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
«=*
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
ħ
OSTER
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Oster IVffg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
AT any height, at any temperature, in any
climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, Under any load,
ĥ
The Famous
Scbebler Carburetter
“ The Heart of the Auto=
mobile” sends a never=
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Sole Agents for Australasia, [i


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
JpANCROViia
ħ
h
T
••rip
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
/
I
/
\
Why
Philips’ Pressed Steel
Split Pulleys
are the BEST
Their weight is just about half that of any Wrought
Iron or Cast Pulley.
The face is not effected by grooves or rivets, but made
of best toughened Steel Plate, double lapped and
beaded, ensuring greatest strength and a smooth
surface, which gives perfect belt contact.
Patent, Interchangeable Bushing System provides
for any size bore.
YOU HEAR OF THE
PHIIAPS—BUT YOU NEVES SEE THEM.
Write to Sole Agents for their _ Catalogue,
“Power Transmission Appliances.”
PARKE g LACY CO. Ltd
■ 60
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
Clarence St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 i
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & OR AY LTD., Newcastle.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
ĥ
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth ; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ħ
BOUNDERS
No. 20 Planer
PLANES, 12in. z 4in.
Ball Beamings to all
Spindles.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustments to Side
Heads.
Delivery from
Sydney Stock.
Austral Eni
189
Supply Co.
Clarence Street, Sydney.
■»
j, f? :
f
h
ĥ
h
Sole Australian Agents
WARBURTON,
307-311 KENT STREET,
td„
en
PS
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
ħ
All British
■
made, and the
most up-to-date
ĥ
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
Sole Agents
for Australia-
ħ
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
SYDNEY.
Agents in ati
the States,
BRUCE PEEBLES
Dynamos, Alternators,
Motor Converters,
A.C. and D.C. Motors.
STOCKS CARRIED.
Block shows Standard Slip Ring
Induction Motor.
ENQUIRE OF AGENTS—
h
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS LTD.
Switchgear, Transformers,
CahSes, Arc Lamps, Wires.
WE HOLD ANNUAL CONTRACTS FOR
SYDNEY CITY COUNCIL for
HmT. and E.H.T. SWITCHGEAR and INDOOR
and OUTDOOR TRANSFORMERS.
ENQUIRE OF AGENTS—
m
1
■' ■ V* 1 /!
Equitable Building,
George Street, Sydney.
