

ID EI'WIT 3 S The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
R. O. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
fdsf
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
And at
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide
EUSTACE BENNETT, Cenaral Manager.
«»imii
SS'.
sd
' Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
AND SUNBURN
► Made in Australia bi/ 1
raiOUICKSTEARHSC?
SYDNEY.
MTTQMP
PINEAPPLE”
CHUBBS
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
IL
Junket,
fsd
ror INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
C.M.A.
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER C 0279 George Street, Sydney.
fsd
“Not the same as others
The Roofing: that will not leak, nor rust, nor crack,
nor warp, nor blow off in a gale.
a
0
n
n
The ideal wallboard for interior finishing; strong
and beautiful. It has a hundred uses.
tfius,
Chains House, Sydney (D. S. Evans, Australasian Representative). Agents in ail States.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL 8c AGRICULTURAL ENQIIMEERS..
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
GRANVILLE,
ROAD METAL & FARM WAGGONS.
soniisvo aiawanvw >b moui
m bs
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of C\,ean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 37.— N0. 1914.]
[Thursday, October 19, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW WAR
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
Trooper Bluefcum at the Dardanelles; by. Oliver lloruo
“Viv Tia Franced”'by Alex. Powell. Illus. 4/6 (3d.)
Aerial Russia, by Lt.-Col. B. R. Bek. Illus. 3/6 (dd.).
“11.M.5.” Naval Yarns, by “Ward Room. 1/C (2d.).
The Straits Impregnable, by S. <le Loglie. 3/6 (2d.).
My Year of the War, by Frederick Palmer. 8/0 (3d.).
Mv Home on the. Field of Honor, by F. W. Hoard.
'3/6. (3d.).
“Somewhere,” by Sapper K. Hall. 1/0. (2d.).
A, GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER
MUSTDIE.
MOM POIMNOtB POWDER.
THE GREAT
KILLS •
( Flies.
) Fleas,
j Bugs.
V Mosquitoes
fsd
£>3
"MUSTDIE,”
Certain Death to All Insects.
Full directions with each Tin.
Burn it—that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
—that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted
on the pillow at bedtime will effect-
ually keep away Mosquitoes.
The “MUST DIE” Blower is recommended to
be used, for it is not only economical, but the
powder is distributed more effectively, and we
want you to get the best results out of eveiy
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. per Tin.
FREE TRIAL. —Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H,
Box 1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and sample tin will
be sent post free; or forward 9d. in stamps tor
ago Henry Lawson prophetically
spoke : —-
The self-same spirit that drives the man to
the depths of drink and crime
Will do the deeds in the heroes’ van that live
till the end of time.
The living death in the lonely hush, the greed
of the selfish town,
And even the creed of the outlawed push is
chivalry—upside down.
And this moral, that almost forms the
basis of Dennis’s philosophy, is neatly per-
sonified in the person of Ginger: —
’ls name is on the records at the Melbourne •
City Court,
Fer doin’ things an’ say in’ things no reel nice
feller ort;
Aii’ ’is name is on the records nv the Army,
over there,
Fer doin' things—same sort o’ things that
rose the Bench’s ’air. ...
An' then there came the Call uv Stousli, or
Jooty — wot's a namet
Att 5 Ginger eoirked ’is ear to it, an’ found ’is
flamin’ game ....
’E’s one uv our brave boys, all right, all right.
’ls eurly trainin’ down in Spadger’s-lane
Done 'im no ’arm fer this ’ere orl-in fight;
’ls loss o’ culcher is ’is country’s gain. . ..
An’ them that shudders at the sight o’ gore,
An’ shrinks to ’ear a drunken soljer's oath,
Must ’ide be’ind the man wot 'eaves the
bricks, . , .
An’ thank their Gawd for all their Ginger
Micks ....
Lovin’ an’ fight in’... .when the tale is told,
That’s all there is to it; an’ in their way
Them brave an’ noble ’ero blokes uphold
Wus Ginger Micks —the crook ’ints uv then-
day. . ' ~
Jist let the Call uv Stoush give ’im is
chance,
An ’ Ginger Mick's the ’ero 6f Ttomance. . ..
Ev’ry feller is a gold-mine if yeh take an’
work ’im right;
It is shinin’ on the surface now an’ then; (
An’ there’s some is easy sinkin’, but there s
some wants dynermite,
Fer they looks a ’opeless prospect —yet
they’re men.
An’ Ginger — ’ard-shell Ginger’s showm signs
that ’e will pay;
But it took a flamin’ world-war fer to blarst
’is crust away....
And Ginger learns the value of discipline ;
and pathetically looks back on chances
missed by the push :
We never ’ad no discipline, that’s wot we
wanted bad.
It’s discipline that gives the push its might.
But wot a time we could ’ave give the cop-
pers if we ’ad.
Lord! We’d ’ave capchered Melbourne m a
night.
When I think nv things that might ave been
I sometimes sit an’ grin,
Fer I might be King uv Footscray if we d
’ad more discipline.
He does his whack, gets his stripe, and
bravely dies in action. Ilis mate, Trent,
writes of his death: —
’F ses strange things in this ’ere note ’e
sends:
“He was a gallant gentleman,” it ends.
A gallant gentleman! Well, I dunno.
I ’ardly think that Mick ’u’d like that name.
But this ’ere Trent’s a toff, an’ ’ort to know
The breedin’ uv the stock frurn tvliich ’e
came.
Gallant an’ game Mick might ’a’ bin; but,
then —
Lord! Fancy ’im among the gentlemen!
And this gallant gentleman’s last words
were, “Look after Rose... .Mafeesh !” And
his cobber has pardonable doubts whether
we will look after his Rose, and all the other
Roses. For in a previous epistle Mick had
given us the straight griffin about the hero
stunt: —•
We ain’t got no objection to the cheers;
We’re good an’ tough, an’ tee can stand the
noise;
But three ’oorays and five or six long beers,
An’ loud remarks about “Our Gallant Boys,”
Sounds kind o’ weak —if you’ll ixcuse the
word —•
Beside the fight in’ sounds we’ve lately ’eard.
If you’ll fergire our blushes, we can stand
The ’etirty cheerin’ an’ the songs o’ praise.
The loud ’Osannas uv our native land
Makes us feel gaud an’ glad in many ways.
An ’ later, when we land back in a mob,
Per'ays we might be arstin’ fer a j0b....
’Eroes! It sounds a bit of reel orl-right —•
“Our Gallant 'Eroes of Gallipoli.’'
But Ginger, when ’e’s thinkin ’ there at night
Vv Rose, an’ wot their luck is like to be
After the echo dies uv all this praise,
Well—'e ain’t dazzled wiv three loud 'oorays.
The casual lightheartedness of The Senti-
mental Bloke is hardly to be found in Ginger
now. Or in Australia. The old days are
done:—
The gilt is on the wattle, Mick, young leaves
is on the trees,
An’ the bush birds in the gullies swap the
ole siceet melerdies,
There’s a good, green land awaitin’ you when
you come ’ome again
To swing a pick at Ballarat or ride Yarrowie
Plain.
The streets is gay wiv dafferdils — but-~
haggard in the sun,
A wounded soljer passes; an’ tee-know ole
days is done.
Fer somew’ere down inside us, lad, is some-
thin’ you put there
The day yeh swung a dirty left, fer us, at
Sari Bair.
So the moods of Ginger Mick are serious
moods. Only in “Ginger’s Cobber” —’E ivears
perjarmer soots an’ cleans ’is teeth —does the
old joyous humor of Dennis revive, though
“Rabbits” embodies a humorous idea. But
do we need that old careless humor any
more? This is a finely patriotic book, a
uniquely Australian book, a book with a
dirty left.
The publishers have turned out the book
as we expect Angus and Robertson to do.
The illustrations by Hal Gye are the
daintiest of decorations, of the calamitous
ugliness of Ginger's chiv.
The Red Page
The Dirty Left of Ginger Mick
Dennis has done it again, done it with an
effort, maybe, but distinctly pulled it off.
The Moods of. Ginger Mick, by C. J. Dennis
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney), is a worthy
successor to The Sentimental Bloke; and a
sequel to a popular success is always the
very devil. In his first book, of which
surely a world record in the sale of verse has
been achieved, since within 12 months 50,000
copies have been actually sold, Dennis had
the advantage of surprise—the thing was so
original in matter and in form. But Ginger
Mick, who can be as sentimental as his
cobber, merely follows the well-worn track
of the Sentimental Bloke. lie speaks the
same language, he has his Rosie as the Bloke
had his Doreen; the element of dramatic
surprise is lacking. True, Dennis has made
good use of the war, and is thus enabled to
shift his scene; but there is a perceptible
effort throughout: one feels that Dennis
doesn’t quite believe in Ginger as he believed
in the Bloke. Occasionally Mick becomes
wearisome. Yet though Dennis uses the war
he uses it well, to show the manhood that
lies behind the inarticulateness of our Ginger
Micks and to prove that in the trenches
Australia, which is made up, more or less, of
mere blokes, is finding her soul.
Fiction
Bohun Lynch belongs to the Bennett
school of painstaking fiction. The Complete
Gentleman (Seeker, per Dymock’s Library)
is a detailed analysis of an English type
that the war was specially created to elimi-
nate, with what success we do not yet know.
Lynch depends upon a slowly culminating
narrative of minutiae, painting his elaborate
portrait with tiny strokes, each one of which
ultimately takes its essential place in the
completed portrait. And the figure stands
posed against an equally elaborated back-
ground. Lynch is the sort of author
who describes all the furniture in the
room, and even points out the subject and
the location of every picture on the walls.
He possesses a delightful style. Henry, the
complete gentleman, is the sort of English-
man that it would be sacrilege to address as
Harry. He does no work —that is always
the trouble of this species of hero. He has
no enthusiasms; “he’s not mad bitten about
anything”—except marrying money. Well,
he married it. “Money—money-money ! He
was keen enough about that for years. And
now lie’s got it, with the usual result. He
devoted himself entirely to getting money
without working for it, and now lie’s got
nothing left to devote himself t 0.... Wait
till they’ve got some children.”
Until the last few pages of this elaborate
book there are no thrills, with the bright
exception of Dolly’s incursion into her cor-
rect husband’s bathroom. Dolly is a charm-
ing woman, and. unlike her husband, she is
alive. He was in his bath —a long para-
graph tells us exactly how he. comported
himself in his bath —and with his ears full
of soap he didn’t hear Dolly’s knock. When
her head appeared he told her not to come in.
“But I wanted to see you in your bath.
You’d be such a dear,” his wife laughed.
Henry blushed crimson; she saw that he
had blushed crimson. “In consternation and
utter surprise she backed out hurriedly;
but in another she had put her head back
for a moment. And you are a darling,
in your bath,’ said she, and fled.” Horribly
embarrassing for Henry. Of course, he
could never speak about it. It was better
ignored. And when he came down to break-
fast, and she told him he was the most
beautiful person in the whole world, “all
the gods of Greece rolled into one, and alive,
too,” he quietly changed the subject.
Of course there is the other man, a pre-
possessing rotter. The child arrives, and
the girl grows up. Lynch does not mind
admitting that Doily grew middle-aged. “She
looked at herself in the glass, touched her
hair, and observed with pleasure that her
flesh still looked firm, that the exercises she
had been practising had indeed removed her
tendency to a double chin,” How many
other authors would have given their heroine
even a tendency to a double chin? Lynch,
indeed, gives a double chin to another char-
acter. “There is a comfortable suggestion
about the doubling chin, the perfect line of
the protruding paunch—made so suave and
so befitting by the artfulness of his tailor.”
But Henry never gets a double chin.
Lynch treats the affairs of life in a plea-
santly common-sense manner. The final
interview between Dolly and the rotter is
a triumph of matter-of-fact realism. And
the tragedy that is so long coming, the
details of which it would be palpably unfair
to disclose to the reader, is solved as Life
would solve it. The Complete Gentleman
is a solid and satisfactory achievement in
a genre that like its subject is nowadays
somewhat outmoded.
The Sailor , by J. C. Snaith (Bell, per
Dymock’s Library), is indubitably the finest
novel of this'year. Snaith is the chameleon
of novelists; in Mistress Dorothy Marvin
he out-romanced Stanley Weyman; in
Broke of Covenden he wrote a Galsworthy
novel that equals the best of that author; in
Henry A T orthcote he produced a remarkable
fantasy that is probably pure Snaith. since
it is like little else in modern English fic-
tion ; in William Jordan, Junior, he failed
to square his fantasy with fact; in Araminta
he suddenly took us into the region of Mere-
ditlxan comedy, diluted by William J. Locke;
several popular novels followed which any'
professional novelist could have dictated;
and now, unexpectedly, comes The Sailor.
Here, too, despite the fact that it is an
achievement, complete and rounded, the
book cannot help reminding the reader of
John Masefield and May Sinclair. The
“Biography” by Masefield might have given
Snaith his idea of the life of his hero at
sea, whose subsequent ipcursion into litera-
ture has the impact of another Conrad ; and
the situation of a successful author who
drops his aitches and is utterly unable to fit
himself in society irresistibly calls up the
figure of the tragic aitchless poet in The
Divine Fire. The fact that the Sailor also
worked in a bookshop need not necessarily
be considered a plagiarism of May Sinclair’s
poet; rather it may be considered a plagi-
arism upon himself, since he utilised the
same situation in a previous novel.
And there is this to be said for Snaith.
The professional novelist lives in an atmo-
sphere of the latest fiction. He can’t escape
the deluge of all the novels of the world;
he can’t bury himself in a bookless country;
and if he is a chameleon he can’t help tak-
ing his color from the literary world in
which he swims. Yet the final test is not
the source of his material, but the pattern
that he weaves from his material; and in
The Sailor he has drawn fulHength the por-
trait of a genius.
The book opens with Auntie, “bare-
armed, bare-headed, savage chest half bare
and sagging in festoons, stayless and un-
ashamed, breathing gin and wickedness,”
armed with a heavy carter’s whip, ecstati-
cally intent on flaying alive a terror-stricken
kid of 13. By the agency of blind chance he
escapes, and ultimately finds himself on
shipboard. Enery Arper belongs to the
gutter; he is unable even to read or write;
he is inarticulate and lacking even the
instinct of manliness. And the life upon
that ship, commanded by a fiendishly brutal
captain, is for years nothing but a long
apprenticeship to horror and despair.' Even
his meeting with a white man, who goes by
the name of Klondyke, affords but a. brief
relief from his misery. Klondyke tries to
teach him to read; but when that friend
leaves the ship at Honolulu “to walk over
Asia”—though how he could reach Asia by
walking from Honolulu is not explained by-
the careless author—Enery Arper relapses
into the mere sailorman. He had no ambi-
tion —how should he have? —and it was only
because the ship had to be broken up that
he came miserably ashore. Chance again
put him on the first step upwards, by a
friend’s discovery that the sailor had the
makings of a wonderful football player.
With his £2 per week and his spare time,
the youth makes pathetic efforts to educate
himself. It is the strenuousness of these
efforts, for about the only useful asset, apart
from his genius, that he was endowed with
was a dull capacity for “keeping on keeping
on,” that led to his disgracing his club in an
important match.
Further aimless wanderings lead him at
last to the right path, and the youth dis-
covers that he can write. His long years
at sea have given him, as it gave John Mase-
field, an unique vision of life. A magazine
that is meant for Blackwood’s accepts Ins
first Story, but not until the author had
laboriously re-written it —a useful corrective
of the habits that hero-authors have of
leaping instantaneously into masterpieces.
Whether Blackwood’s would have accepted
this new It. L. Stevenson is a minor point
to which this page good-humoredly takes
exception. But Enery Arper, the new lit-
erary figure, is hopelessly lacking in all
knowledge of the world. lie is even ignorant
of the fact that “he hasn’t an aitch to his
name.” When he makes this appalling dis-
covery he happens to discover a teacher of
correct speaking. He learns that there are
quite a lot of manners of correct speaking:
the Oxford manner, the Service manner, the
Naval manner, “hardly to be recommended
for social life,” the Civil Service manner,
“which combines utility with a reasonable
amount of ornament,” the Diplomatic
manner, and the Number Three Commercial
manner, which, on his teacher’s recommenda-
tion, he proceeds laboriously to acquire.
But, of course, a shrewd young lady con-
nected with the stage had already snared this
remarkable husband. Henry Harper, knew
as little of women as he did of
aitches. And now launched in the society of
his equals, he meets The Girl. The tragedy
of their love, with the inescapable back-
ground of a drunken and immoral wife, ends
at last in one of the most poignant scenes in
recent fiction. Before the stark horror of his
life-story the conventional English society
girl shrinks as from an abyss ; and the man,
recognising that he has lost her at the
moment when he is free to confess his love, in
his agony drops back into the speech and the
manners of his youth. But Snaith is kind
kinder than perhaps life would have been—
and enables these two to close the abyss that
had so horribly opened between them.
The book is an achievement. I lie host ot
other characters are real, alive, faithfully
observed ; there is comedy as well as pathos ;
arid the vivid story, that snatches the reader
at the first page and hurries him to the last,
will ensure it an immediate popularity.
\n eighteenpenny edition of Damaged
Goods the well-known syphilis drama by
Brieux has been published by Angus and
Robertson. Svdney, in view of the announce-
ment that this celebrated sermon on vene-
real diseases will shortly be staged m Aus-
tralia bv J.C.W. Ltd. This edition, rightly,
is unexpurgated. Is it too much to hope
that the stage version will also pass the box-
office censor?
War
There is gold on the Gallipoli Peninsula.
“Anzae,” the author of On the Ansae 1 rail
(Heinemann, per Dymock’s Library), has
made this discovery. “It’s there,” he says,
“for I panned off the dirt and found the
color! I know the spot, and some day,
perhaps, I’ll have a try for the big seam. I
have a fairly good idea —but that s another
tale.” So, after the war, we may expect
to see a rush of prospectors to the Darda-
nelles, headed by the blokes who have been
there before. It seems a pity now that we
didn’t send Randolph Bedford: lie would
have floated a company in the firing-trench.
The author, a Maoriland sapper, writes
good Australian. His opinion of the
Tommies is hardly complimentary, but
apparently typical. For one thing, Tommy
and Billzac have different standards of per-
sonal cleanliness; and when, on a transport,
the two are perforce bedfellows, Billzac is
apt to criticise. “The spectacle of a big,
husky bushman cleaning his teeth night and
morning was a tiling the Tommies couldn t
understand at any price, much less appre-
ciate. ‘If I did that,’ observed one in my
hearing, ‘I’d have toothache bad’; which
seemed to be the general opinion And
we like our tucker clean : we take all sorts
of fine care that the cook washes both him-
self and his utensils. But those Terriers
didn’t seem to care a cent whether the stuff
was clean or filthy. And they way they used
their knives! Still, they were wonderfully
expert: I didn’t see a single cut mouth all
the time.... Tommy Atkins can fight; _we
admit it, and we take off our hats to him,
but compared with the Australasian bush-
man, he is, in many respects, an uncivilised
animal.”
Apparently “Anzae” knew all that there
was to know about Cairo—and a bit over.
His information about certain streets of that
wicked city is evidently gathered first-hand.
The visit he and a cobber paid to a native
village is high comedy. They informed the
Sheik that they had come in search of
wives, and the old gentleman, scenting back-
sheesh, immediately paraded the goods'before
them, “with a full inventory of each laugh-
ing-eyed young lady’s charms and accomplish-
ments made out.” But no matrimonial busi-
ness was done that day, and on the day fixed
for their return the prospective husbands
were on their way to the Dardanelles.
Equally graphic is his account of the
Landing and the subsequent, and more im-
portant, Sitting Tight. He adds the inevit-
able grisly touches. And this sapper has an
appreciation of the right proportion of things
at the Front. To him the day when he got a
shirt that he had been promised is more im-
portant than a victory. And he adds: “If I
could only raise a pair of trousers I’d be
satisfied.” Then he “got in the way of some
bullets,” and “altogether I don’t feel quite as
good as before I went on tour with the
Anzacs. . . .My left ear is gone ; I don’t sleeo
too well; there is a fitter’s shop doing great
work day and night in my head, and when I
walk out things are apt to spin round some,
and I fancy the dear old ladies imagine I
suffer from chronic alcoholism.” This was
after he had been in six hospitals. “And I
wouldn’t have missed it, good or bad, for
worlds.” Also, “dear reader, I’d rather be
lying this moment in an unknown grave in
the Gallipoli Peninsula than be branded for
life as a God damned slacker !”
—s —
Over 25,000 copies of The Moods of
Ginger Mick were ordered in advance of
publication by “the trade.”
D. H. Newman’s The Socialist Case for
Conscription (Specialty Press, Melb.) neatly
puts forward the arguments for something
about which there should be no need for
argument. Newman is a unionist and a
socialist, as this page understands socialism.
And his case is lucidly and cogently put.
“The real issue is. . . .Australian conscrip-
tion for a few months, or German con-
scription for life. .. .Compulsory trades-
unionism is pure conscription.... Ihe
worker parasite who keeps out_ of trouble
and lays himself out to reap, in higher wages
and improved conditions of work, the re-
wards of other men’s sacrifices, they call a
‘scab,’ but the citizen parasite who skulks at
home....in a security that is costing other
men’s lives, they exalt into a champion of
liberty.... In presence of real danger these
fire-eaters of the Trades Hall become men
of peace, preaching seabdom with a kind of
religious zeal.” This pamphlet deserves the
widest and most immediate circulation.
[Arthur H. Adams, who dosses on this page.]


xtae
Anthony
Horderns’
Portfolio
of 1916-’l7
Fashions
V
Posted Free
on
Application.
(IJQSi
IN!
I
::::
111 l
::::
r
Cool
tn Linen; Pique
ai Anikoruj Horclenns’
. '• •':'^::TiliTTnT:
Tu
s sore
Jk’V®
5008
21/6
Z 603
47 f Q
eso
29/6
3014
2^/6
leiz
42/-
1206
42/-
No. 2608. —Fashionable Full-flared Coat, of Natural
Assam Silk, improved Raglan Sleeves with Cuff, new Tab
collar, may be worn open or closed to throat 47 /6
No. 3008.—Inexpensive Sports Coat, of Natural Tussore
Silk, small Collar and Revers, all-round Belt at waist,
pockets 21/6
Similar style, No. 1406, in Japanese Silk, in shades of Saxe,
Mole, Navy, Black or White 23/6
No. 680.—Serviceable Sports Coat, of Cream Fuji Silk,
wide inset Sleeves with Cuffs, convertible Collar, fastens
fancy Pearl Buttons 29/6
Similar style, No. 672, in Ivory Japanese Silk 32/6
No. 3014.—Sports Coat, of White Linen, five-eighth
length, cut in Norfolk effect, set-in Sleeves, Coat Collar and
Revers, fastens with Crochet Buttons 22/6
Similar style in Natural Tussore Silk 24/6
No. 1424.—Practical Sports Coat, in White Pique; Coat
Sleeves with Cuff, small Collar, belted at waist.... 12/6
Similar style, No. 682, in Natural Tussore 25/6
Also No. 9193, in Cream Japanese Silk 27/6
No. 2612. — Dressy Sports Coat, of Natural Assam Silk,
smartly cut, circular Collar and Revers, inset Sleeves; the
Belt and Cuffs relieved inlay of Black and White Check
Silk 42/-
S'imilar style, No. 2482, in Natural Tussore Silk 29/6
No. 1206. — Useful Seven-eighth Length Coat, of
Natural Assam Silk, wide Raglan Sleeves, fastens high to neck
and has smart turn-over collar, all-round Belt at waist 42/-
'/im
y/A
*> cr.rrrr
HR
fiS
Y 2
1
>
/tss:
&j%/ssore <suifs
of/ /forc/orns
Blanche
Brenda
Barbara
63/-
Bertha
67/6
Beryl
•+5/-
Betty
75f-
Beatrice
67/&
Anthony
Horderns'
Famous
Low
Prices
Reign
Supreme.
BLANCHE.—UsefuI Costume, in Natural Tussore
Silk; has Sports Coat, flared Skirt 37/6
Also in Fine Assam Silk, Coat with rounded Fronts, plain Skirt,
- Vo - 1001 57/6
Same Style in White and Khaki Gabardine, No. 776 .... 22 /6
Also in White Pique, with large Strap Pockets, No. 3012 18/11
BRENDA.— Smart Coat and Skirt of Natural Tus-
sore Silk; Coat has Raglan Sleeves, self stand-up Collar
and Satchel Pockets, Patent Leather Belt, high-waisted Skirt,
flared at foot «- /
BETTY.—Effectively-designed Natural Assam
Silk Coat and Skirt; Coat has self Collar and Belt, fancy
Bone and Crochet Buttons, and Silk Cord Fastener, plain,
high-waisted, flared Skirt 75/-
BARBARA.—Natural Assam Silk Coat and Skirt;
Coat pleated on hips and has self Belt and Collar, high-
waisted Skirt 63/-
Similar style in Japanese Silk, coat has self Revers and four-
button fastening. In Ivory, Navy and Black, No. 1072 59/6
BEATRICE. —Well-cut Coat and Skirt of Natural
Assam Silk, fastening to throat with self Buttons, self
Belt at back, high-waisted Skirt, flared at foot 67/6
BERTHA.—WeII-tailored Natural Assam Silk Coat
and Skirt, the high Collar finished Patent Leather Strap,
which also forms half belt at front; flared Belt is high-
waisted 67/6
Similar style in Crepe de Chine, with shaped double strap Belt.
In Black, Navy, Grey, Mole, Brown or Fawn, No. 508. . 75/-
BERYL. —Coat and Skirt in Natural Tussore Silk,
self Cape, Collar and Belt, hi;.:h-waisted Skirt, flared at
foot 45/-
Similar style in White Linen, with Pique rolled Collar and Bevels
of self, No. 3010 13/6
Also in Japanese Silk, No. 517, Cream
Black and Navy 4//6
ANTHONY HORDERN h SONS Ltd
Only- Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


When You
Follow The *
Trail # ’
*
*
- Go
Equipped With
WNCHBSTM
Guns a* 6 Ammunition
Made for all kinds
of shooting.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
ASK FOR THE
W
BRAND
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not o'nlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCIvE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
f
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
dsf
Make Your
Own Cans.
If you buy Tin Cans of any
description you are paying for
these machines.
WHY NOT OWN THEM?
Make your own cans and the
machines will pay for themselves.
Even the small Can Maker or
Packer, whose output is only 5000
to 10,000 Cans per day, will save
money by using the
“AMS SYSTEM”
for making or closing Sanitary
Cans.
aw
eaeit
eaa
We have machines exactly suited to your needs, whether
your output is 5000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obligation, prices and
pictures of machines adapted to your needs. Send us
samples of your cans or drawings with complete dimen-
sions, and state the quantity you make.
CORRESPONDENCE IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Address Dept. C-14
The MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agents :
W. E. HUGHES (EL CO., London, E.C., England.
H. W. PEABODY (Si CO., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
sdf
Works; Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TRADE MARK
GREAT FIRE SALE.
£lO,OOO worth of Guns and Rifles,
slightly damaged by water, to be offered
to the public at greatly reduced prices.
10 ONLY D.8.8.L. Guns, top lover, .choke bore. Usual Price, £5/17/6. SALE
PRICE, £2/12/6. 4 ONLY D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUNS, choke bore.
Usual Price, £lO/10/-. SALE PRICE, £5/10/-. 6 ONLY D.8.8.L.
GUNS, fitted with W. W. Greener patent Wedgefast erossbolt, choke bore, top
lever, rebounding locks. Usual Price, £6/10/-. SALE PRICE, £3/12/6.
SPECIAL MARLIN REPEATERS to hold 16 cartridges. Cartridges, 1/9 100.
Usual Price, £3/15/-. SALE PRICE, £2/15/-. RABBIT RIFLES, to kill
at 100 yards. Usually 17/6. SALE PRICE, 12 /6. 303 MATCH RIFLES.
Usual Price, £3/10/-. SALE PRICE, 37/6. CHAMPION RIFLES, 22 cal.,
to take 22 short and 22 long cartridges. Usual Price, 25/-. SALE PRICE, 15/- D.B.M.L. GUNS,
Usual Price, £3. SALE PRICE, 25/-. S.B.M.L. GUNS. Usual Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE, 15/-.
ORDER EARLY TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT.
Repairs done on the premises by first-class workmen.
Send for ou r Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free on Application to —-
SMALL ARMS CO., Importers, 229 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
MR. T. I. CAMPBELL,
General Secretary Farmers 8 Settlers’ Associatkn of New South Wales,
one of the best-known of Sydney’s commercial citizens, having held this important
position for years, gives this voluntary testimony to Clements Tonic, because he
states it merits it: —■
“Farmers and Settlers’ Association, N.S.W.,
“7 O’Connell St., Sydney, 27/7/’l6.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and
experience, I do not hesitate to give you my opinion of it, simply
putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to be a very fine blood and nerve tonic. I know
that it has benefited me greatly. At various periods my duties are
exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and
I have always found your medicine of the greatest value to me,
having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of
my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling others to benefit by my
personal experience.
“(signed) T. 1. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any man better or more widely known than the able
Secretary ot this far-reaching Association, the influence of which extends over the entire State,
and whose members amongst the pastoral and farming communities of New South Wales are
to be numbered in thousands. To all of these Mr. .Campbell's letter will appeal, as equally
as it will to his numberless commercial city friends, because of its sincerity and lucid explana-
tion of the worth of a medicine the effectiveness of which is felt and recognised throughout
the Australian Commonwealth.
It is truly the medicine for the man on the land, Send for it if you suffer
from Insomnia, Poor Appetite, Weak Nerves, or Brain Fag. ALL CHEMISTS.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
RHEUMATISM
Are your hands and fingers cramped and
distorted ?
Are your arms, wrists and knees stiff?
Are your nerves run down, and is your
appetite poor ?
If so you are suffering from Rheumatism, which
if not quickly and correctly treated will soon ren-
der you unfit for your daily work.
m
mm
Surgeon Chas. F. Parker, I. M. S.
Late Bengal, India.
DR. PARKER’S Great Indian
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
is a genuine remedy which rarely fails in cases of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, Uri-
nary troubles, or any Excess Uric Acid ailments
such as Headaches, Mental Depression, Uric
Acid Ulcers, Dyspepsia, Liver Disorders,
Skin Affections, Kidney Disorders, and
Numbness and Cold. It has cured others and
will quickly benefit you.
A lady writes—“ Dear Sir,—l had suffered from
Rheumatism for over nine years, and for the
past five years have been unable to do any kind
of work. My arms, wrists and knees were stiff,
my hands and fingers cramped and distorted,
my appetite poor, and I was never free from
pain. I had tried all kinds of remedies without
result. However, after taking Dr. Parker’s
Rheumatic Remedy I got immediate relief. I
am freed from pain and my joints are
supple again.” (Original letter on file).
10,000 SAMPLES
GIVEN AWAY THIS SEASON
Write TODAY for FREE SAMPLE, testi-
monials and valuable book on the treat-
ment of Rheumatism, with 3d. in stamps
for bare cost of postage.
F. PARKER, Specialist for Rheumatism,
111 Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
sd
( Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
1 Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
(LATEST
MODELS
£3. tO to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AfiFNTQ wa nted in each district. Write
HULIiId a t once, using - sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and oui
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL,
fsd
Leather Vests
For CAMP or TRENCH USE
Lined with Pure Wool.
■-■lnsect Proof d«—
Price 1 7/6*
} SUEDE VESTS 42/-
Senrt for descriptive list,
Wc pack for post if necessary
ROTHWELL’S L™
Edward Street, BRISBANE
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco'cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR CSX, CO.,
Dept, G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
f
&
'fl
A
'SvA / *S2
W/TSi
f » / /^Cg
For Elderly People
Elderly people so often suffer from BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, and other complaints of the throat and
chest. A neglected COLD leads to more serious
troubles. Instant relief is given by “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” and young and old benefit alike. Take
none but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
IcilnA.
Cream
The only toilet cream containing Icilma
Natural Water. Fragrant, non-greasy,
guaranteed not to grow hair.
British made.
1/6 per pot everywhere.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
a.c.7.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
The C HIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World AVar Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9et. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
BULLDOG IVTTONB
★
Fixed in an Instant
No Sewing. Never come off. Twelve!)
,Buttons for Six Pence. TbreeJDozen^
I for a Shillings post free anj^vhere.
Suit Trousers and all other Garments. Simply
press point through cloth and push on head*
No needle or cotton wanted. Quite smooth
back and front. Will do for a collar stud. Positively Unbreak*
able., A CHALLENGE: We will return your money if you
take this Button off without tearing the cloth!
The Union Co.* 299 Elizabeth Street* Melbourne*
sdf
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
OU ask me for a few hints on the thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
treatment of the hair and complexion, thing inferior to wash the hair with. t*et
Well, the less “treatment” you give some good stallax from your chemist and use
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
Photo: Wrather & Buys.
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs-a little —what do you call
it?—stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and' mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but • make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
WA
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right-off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not _be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily,. and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cathedral Bells.
Long ’tis since from their mellow throats
The music showered down,
A sudden storm of golden notes,
Like laughter on the town.
I see them in their narrow room,
And feel as when a boy
They live and breathe condemned to gloom,
With hearts that ache for joy.
They wait the whisper in their cell
Will stir them, and release
The soul of Christ in every bell,
The passion that is Peace!
VICTORIA.
E.D.
The Little Man.
You, that rose when day began,
Tell me, roving fellow,
Did you meet your Little Man
Dressed in green and yellow?
“Sure, I did that same at dawn,
’Mid the clover’s honeyed foam;
And ’twas he,’the Cluirichaun,
Brought me singing to your home.”
Did you find him at his work
In the Fairy Hollow,
Where the slanting sunbeams lurk
Till the sunbeams follow?
“Yes, I found him crouched and small,
Sitting at his last, the rogue,
With his hammer and his awl
Patching up a broken brogue.”
Did you grip him good and tight,
Clutch him, as ’tis bidden,
Till he showed with cheeks affright
Where his crock was hidden?
“Yes, I clutched him sure and fast,
Bringing all my strength to play,
Till he showed me at the last
Where his hidden treasure lay.”
Now, ’tis fooling me you are
With this idle-story—•
You that saw the morning star
Drowned in golden glory.
“Nay, ’tis fooling you I’m not;
False to you I could not be ;
All the treasure that I’ve got—-
Care to get —he gave to me.”
You that laugh at me and mock, •
Fooling me at pleasure,
Tell me was this ancient crock
Filled with golden treasure?
“Ancient ’twas not, but as young
As the girl that I behold,
And it held (gemmed things among)
Gold outshining coin of gold.”
Then ’twas fairy-gold he gave,
Coin ’tis vain to cherish;
And his gems, though seeming brave.
Like the dewdrops perish?
“Nay, ’twas neither this nor that,
And I’m saying what is true—•
’Twas the face beneath your hat,
And your eyes and all of you!”
You, that spied the Little Man
In the foam of clover,
Long ago your quest began—>
Is your questing over?
“Yes, for holding you, I hold
All the round world in my grip;
Gold outshining coin of gold,
Crock o’ wondrous workmanship !”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Golden Shoes.
Golden shoes my lady wears;
Silken stockings for her feet;
And a diamond buckle bright,
Flashing like a warning light
From a haunted dell at night,
Where the shoe and stocking meet.
Thin red lips my lady has,
Mouth that never satisfies,
So a man may taste in vain,
Longing spurring him like pain
That he may lie once again
’Neath the drugging of her eyes.
Golden shoes my lady wears;
Silken stockings for her feet....
Hid her rivals rule the land,
We should see my lady stand,
With a candle in her hand,
Shivering in a penance sheet!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
I Wonder Why.
I met a portly citizen
And smiled and bade him time o’ day;
And he —he looked me up and down
A moment and with gathering frown
Went on upon his way.
I wonder why.
I met an aged laboring man
Who toiled upon a mountain track;
I hailed him as I passed, and he
Leaned on his pick and smiled at me,
And gave me greeting back.
I wonder why.
I met the spectre of my youth,
And oh what shining eyes he had I
He hailed me merrily and strode,
Head high, along a golden road.
He seemed so strong and glad.
I wonder why.
I met myself again grown old,
And oh the eyes were dull and spent!
He passed me by without a word
And somewhere a harsh-throated bird
Croaked hoarsely as he went.
I wonder why.
N.S.W.
A. de R. B.


Perdriau Garden Hose.
Obtainable throug'b all Stores
“Go mark the matchless working of the
power,
That shuts within the seed the future flower
—COWPER.
The power that is behind Katuie ii»
successful gardening is Cultivation.
Good cultivation increases production,
and one of the main necessities is
copious watering during the hot sum-
mer months.
We have just had ample rainfall to give
every garden a good start.
Keep it moving by starting with the
hose at once.
I m
■
- m
H
m
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. ETD.
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
in the following brands : —-
Watershed
( Regd. Trade Mark.)
A Special Red Rubber Garden Hose.
Whilst light, flexible and durable, it will
stand the pressure from any main.
Guaranteed free from any fault in manufac-
ture that would cause it to Burst, Split,
Peel or Kink.
Specially manufactured to withstand the
excessive heat of the country.
“Prospedl”
(Regd. Brand.)
The Best Low-priced Black Rubber Hose on
the Market.
Made in Australia.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENVER
PRICES :
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL, SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
v>l»
aurel
The Story of the Lamp
I
%
rfT3
j
M
The “Slush-Lamp” of the
“Never-Never”
The further the pioneer of Australasia
pushed into the “Never-Never” country,
the greater became his privations. Lamps
were to him a luxury, so he set about
finding a makeshift. An empty jam-tin
filled with melted fat —a piece of rag tied to
a stick standing in the middle of it—and
his “slush lamp” was complete.
Kerosene may now be obtained in all
parts of the country. All stores sell
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
and wherever it is sold its quality is uniform.
Laurel is smokeless and odorless. Gives a
clean white light, and the last thimbleful
burns as well as the first. For lighting,
heating and cooking it cannot be excelled.
Laurel is our new trade mark name for the
highest quality American Kerosene ever
sold in Australasia and replaces our old
brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
La. 10
I
d
i.
7
m
m
DUVAL & CO.
BEST
in the
LONG
RUN.
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM, Perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
For. 37.—N0. 1014.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1916.
Price 6d.
[B. E. MINNS. 214 George-street. Sydney.]
NEAR ENOUGH.
THE ANTI: “If that fire gets into our yard I’ll fight it for all I’m north.”
THE WOMAN: “You’ll wait till it gets here? No, no, think of our home, think of our baby in its cot—THINK OF ME!”


Special Notice to Agents
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BULLETIN.”
You will therefore be good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every iveek jor a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
till Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
■Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie' Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban arid Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — JV. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Ft 'an cisco ;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Uoung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brener and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; 81oz. to 10os., Sid.;
Woz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1916.
NOW, WHAT IS THE DECENT THING
TO DO?
Wiiat in the name of high Heaven has it
got to do with the business in hand if Hughes
or Pearce or Joe Cook or somebody else can
be proved to have said some foolish thing or
been guilty of some silly act? When it has
seemed worth while this paper has not hesi-
tated to jump on these people, and it is fairly
certain that it will leap on them a lot more.
But if The Bulletin maintained that when
it showed a politician to be either a blather-
skite or a muddler it also incidentally
proved that a 6xB tent was a dreadnought
or iKEir Mo a new sort of jumbuck, there
would be reasonable ground for suspecting
that there were fantods on these premises.
Yet all over Australia there are industrious
individuals toiling like coolies to show that
this or the other remark by Hughes or
someone else was stupid; and having done
this, they spring on to the wreckage, and in
a voice of 15 megaphones proclaim that com-
pulsory service is a combination of arsenic,
prussic acid, smallpox, bubonic plague and
the frying-pans of Hades. Going on these
lines it is as easy as falling off a log to
prove that the earth is as flat as
last year’s beer. All that it is necessary to
do is to expose the fallacy of Holman’S 1
arithmetic, and then the resemblance of the
earth’s surface to antiquated beer becomes
as clear as the winner of the Melbourne Cup
was three months ago. The sober truth is
that Hughes and Pearce and J. Cook are
as irrelevant to compulsory service as Wil-
son’s last Note was to the price of butter
at Wallerawang.
The question is not whether some
ephemeral person is like Cassaii’s wife. The
lady has been dead a long time, anyhow, and
the individual of the moment will go that
way, too, all in good time, as is preordained
by the Law of the Sandbag. What does
matter is whether the person who has
attacked Australia is going to see the people
of the Commonwealth throw in the towel.
It is a simple proposition. Is Australia
doing to quitf What someone says about
something else has nothing to do with this.
The answer to it must be plain “res” or
“No,” and it turns on considerations that
cannot possibly be affected by a controversy
about the censorship, or the P.L.L., or the
P.L.C., or freedom of speech, or the talk of
Hughes in England, or the obscurantist
performances of I’earce or the tribulations
of Higgs. And all the blither about
417 other things matters no more. The one
thing that does matter —that transcends
every other —the thing that is vital, and
around which all these other pifflings are
mere verbal mosquitoes, is that A iistralia is
at tear. Compared with this the defence of
Hughes or the smashing of Pearce’s arith-
metic by confused subtractions and multipli-
cations is about as important as Kink
O’Malley’s hat. The war has to be won or
lost. It is not going to be won by contra-
dicting ii politician or a newspaper. But it
may easily be lost if the allied peoples come
to the conclusion that victories purchased,
for Id. in the evening print are taking the
sting out of the enemy, or that the contra-
diction of public men is as effective as the
contradiction of Yon Hindenburg.
This paper holds no brief for Hughes.
It has little admiration for either his tongue
or his judgment. But it does hold a brief
for Australia. And the evidence it relies
upon is the casualty-lists which reveal the
holes knocked into Australia’s army, the
presence of the German on thousands of
square miles of conquered territory, and the
indisputable fact that war— our war—is
raging as no other war ever raged since kill-
ing became a public enterprise; and on that
evidence it claims that it is the business of
the Australian people to see the thing
through—to play, the ‘gitfne to their mates
and their sons and their brothers right to
the end. The Bulletin is under no delu-
sions about what the war is going to mean
to Australia. Some of the results have
been terrible enough in one way already.
Some of the others are going to be as cheer-
ful as hungry tigers. Nor has this paper
any admiration for war as a “refining influ-
ence.” or of conscription as a thing to be
worshipped for its own sake. But it has a
powerful conviction that war can only be
met bv war, and that in a fight for life a
bayonet is more useful than a mouthful of
wind. And it is more concerned with seeing
the brutes who launched this hideous orgy
of slaughter on the world walloped than
with seeing the arm that can wallop them
weakened. It is a desperate game that is
being played. But it will be made no less
so by pulling out; for the peril will still be
there. What do politicians matter in this?
The German armies and the armies of our
Allies know nothing about Australian poli-
ticians or what somebody remarked at
Ballarat or Binalpng. They know Aus-
tralian soldiers, though. They are not suffi-
ciently demented to imagine that the war
can be finished by anything except
bayonets and shells. The only war the anti-
conscription poliev can win is the war
between Hughes and the P.L.L. Compared
with the war that has to be won, this has
about the same importance as a disturbance
between a couple of roosters in a suburban
backyard. It is the other war that Aus-
tralians have to say something about next
week, and the question for them is not the
one figuring on the voting paper. The real
question is this :
SHALL WE BE THE FIRST QUITTERS?
The Bulletin puts it that way because
this is the problem. And it asks its readers
to put it that way to themselves—to put
Hughes and Pearce and Cook and every-
one of the political tribe out of their minds
—and answer nothing else.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act. by S. 11. Prior. D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
HOME DEFENCE.
“In time of war the British frontier is the
enemy’s coastline.” On that simple maxim
was based the whole idea of the fleets that
carried Nelson’s flag; and the smashing
of Napoleon’s warships in Aboukir
Bay was as direct a blow for the defence
of London as if it had been aimed off the
coast of Kent. From history the nation
had learned its lesson well that the worst
battlefield is the battlefield at home. Exclud-
ing Scottish inroads, Britain has been eight
times invaded by a foreign foe; and only
twice was the invader hammered back to
his ships. So the stern logic of the attempts
at home defence when the enemy has once
crossed the shore line goes to show that
the danger of waiting until the axe is
actually in the door is far too great, and
that long-range warfare is the best guarantee
of national stability. In the present war
Britain has been called to fight much too
close to her own gate. For modern scien-
tific achievement has shortened spaces and
brought things that were once distant very
close together. Dover Straits, which even
in Napoleon’s time meant hours of
navigation, can be bridged by the flight of
a shell from a modern gun. All Europe,
measured by time spent in travel, is no
bigger than an English county in the days
of Shakspeare. With this narrowing of
the world the idea of home defence expands.
Far more than in Nelson’s day Scotland
may now be best protected at Gibraltar or
the" Yorkshire industrial centres at the
Dardanelles; and every nearer step of the
enemy increases the chances of finding blood
on the piano and death on the doormat.
* * * *
All the defence ideas that hold with regard
to insular Britain hold with equal force
when applied to insular Australia. V hat>
ever defence scheme might be adopted at
the present hour, nothing is more certain
than that if an invasion in force actually
reached these shores we should have a poor
hope of resisting it. Far beyond our present
realisation are w r e fortunate in being able
to fight our battles remote from our own
land, To argue that, with the tide of
battle now turning to our advantage—with
every hope of driving the enemy farther and
farther from us-—we should retreat and
voluntarily take up our position at the last
ditch is the final thing in futility. And
more than futile- —it would be unfair
to our Allies. That the war might
be won by them without Australian com
scription may be perfectly true. But it Will
be won more swiftly and effectively if we
lend a hand up to the limit of our power.
In any case, as this is a war of home
defence, no citizen who values his country
can allow the outsider to fight his battles
for him or withdraw from bearing his part
in the struggle until the home he defends
is safe.
But we are tokl that Australia is in no
danger and never was in danger from the
German aggressor. Only the fool will
believe it. Apart from the serious danger
of actual annexation, Australia had and still
has grave perils. There is a sense in which
every nation stands alone; but in a very
real way civilisation —the civilisation that
counts —is one and indivisible, linked
together by chains of hope and aspiration
and a faith in the future of man. Just as
the price of bread in one country depends
upon the market fluctuations of flour in
other countries, so, in the world of moral
values, the shame and injury of one people
becomes the shame and. injury of the rest.
This is no mere fancy, but stern and sober
fact. Moral loss and injury to France or
Britain must mean moral loss and injury to
Australia: If the Prussianism which is
the soul of the German military strength
could score a victory, life would be a little
darker and harder for every Australian
child, even though no foe came within a
thousand miles of 11s and the freedom of
the Commonwealth remained unchallenged.
In the fall of the Roman Empire, through
the onrush of the barbarous German fighting-
tribes, there were vast regions, enjoying a
civilisation in many respects superior to our
own, which were never touched by the
invader. They had all the things necessary
to a progressive life on the high plane of
Roman culture; yet in the moral shock and
ruin which struck Italy, they lapsed in a
barbarism more complete than that of the
countries where Goth and Vandal had left
their awful blood-trail. Had they been wise
the prosperous Greek cities of Asia Minor
might have stood and fought their fight for
home defence in the remote passes of the
Alps. They had no chance of effectively
doing it nearer their own walls. To them,
as to some people in Australia, the moral
defeat of civilisation seemed a merely imagi-
nary thing; but it proved a grim reality,
and to-day the squalid Turkish Empire
sprawls over the ruins of something finer
than Islam’s best dreams.
* * * *
For the anti-conscription Laborite to try
to make a. distinction between home defence
on the soil of Australia and home defence
on the soil of France is, then, to play
foolishly with words. We want a citizen
army in Australia —a citizen army ready to
answer any call, whether we find it neces-
sary to defend ourselves at Port Darwin or
Sydney or on the mountain terraces of
Thibet. Our immediate need is to maintain
our home defence on the red fields of
Europe, That there are no shells shriek-
ing through Australian air or bursting in
our shops and offices is all to the good. To
break the enemy at the greatest distance
from home is the thing to be desired, and
our chance of doing it is plainly by putting
our Defence Act on a logical footing and
giving it the breadth and scope that will
best serve our national safety.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior. D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE EXHORTATION TO BECOME A
THUG.
If the I.W.W. could be settled- by being
cursed it would not be feeling very well.
It has been damned in more languages'than
any other political organisation on earth,
and so far as this paper knows it has not
been affected thereby to any noticeable
extent. Probably it likes being bombarded
with the language of wrath. People with a
weird propaganda usually do. It makes
them feel that they are being taken notice
of, and the more the I.W.W. is damned the
harder will it toil to get damned again.
Whether it deserves to be mentioned with
vituperation is another matter. This paper
is persuaded that verbal consignments of
the I.W.W. to the Devil are mere futilities,
and that the existence in any country of
the brotherhood is proof of the failure
of statesmanship rather than of the in-
crease of insanity. For the doctrines of the
I.W.W. are the doctrines of despair—of
revolution against what the adherents of
these theories, and perhaps a great many
other people, believe to be'the blind cruelties
of commercialism. And in judging such a
concern, in condemning the revolutionary
spirit, it is well to remember that the ready
damn and the prompt boot never stayed
revolution anywhere—that before wise and
temperate reform revolution has always
melted away, and the hand of the social
assassin been thwarted.
The appeal of the I.W.W. is addressed
only to men and women who believe 'them-
selves the victims of flaming injustice—
who see no escape from it except through
chaos, the sweeping away of all existing
institutions from foundation to roof, the
pulling down of the whole social structure
into a vast heap of untidiness. It is just
a loud yell for anarchy, a howl to the
workers to arise and awake and cast off
their chains and all the rest of the iron-
mongery they imagine they are cumbered
with. And it is all as old as this weary
world, and very much like dynamite in
a State where social conditions are rotten.
Addressed to some peoples it might be
reconciled with the highest patriotism. But
addressed to Australians, who have gone
so far along the road to social salva-
tion, it sounds like an invitation to
start committing suicide on a large scale.
1.W.W.-ism offers nothing except confu-
sion and uproar. It wants everything
abolished. It is opposed to politics, to
reform, to work, to wages. It is in
deadly opposition to the entire social fabric.
It wants to achieve a Great Smash. It
calls itself a “hew psychology and alleges
that the world call be converted into a New
Jerusalem if it is turned inside out ahd
upside down and a fresh start made after
everything has beeil thrown into the Ocean.
By turning industry into hash the I.W .Y\.
considers that “the proletariat” will secure
certain economic salvation*; by political and
economic reform of what exists it is con-
vinced that man will gain nothing. It sees
crimson,
* * * ...
Now, it is easy to show that all this is
the wildest folly, that it Is an appeal to
ignorance, that it spelis social ruination.
But as the I.W.W.dte wants to create ruin
to start With, it is no use advancing as
an objectioh to his doctrines something to
prove that if put into effect they would
succeed in doing just what they are designed
to accomplish. But in tolerating the advo-
cacy of such anti-social acts —acts by which
our political and industrial life might be
wrecked —is not a State joining in a con-
spiracy against itself? There are dozens of
reasons why it would be absurd to attempt
to interfere with a fatuous individual who
tried to prove that if nobody worked the
millennium would be advanced. But if there
are any reasons why people should be
entitled to exhort others to make acts of
sabotage—the destruction of machinery and
material, among other things—part of their
method of securing salvation, this paper
would like to know what they are. If there
are none, the State should protect itself* If it
does not, then it must be entitled to be looked
upon as incapable of defending its citizens
from dangers as sinister as microbes of
hydrophobia. Australia has been plastered
with literature frankly advocating the boot;
is infested with wild-eyed persons yelling
for destruction. In a democracy this poison-
ing of the wells is an outbreak that deserves
prompt discouragement. There is not one
political or social problem before the citizens
of Australia that they cannot settle peace-
fully and effectively ; nor is there one they
can be assisted to settle by having someone
shouting in their ear to take up an axe and
smash something else. The industry and
the political institutions of Australia are
at bottom the common property of the
people. To advocate the further reform of
conditions is sane and patriotic. To pro-
ceed on the assumption that things are so
bad that everything must be torn up by the
roots and industry killed stone-dead, and to
preach this doctrine here because of condi-
tions that exist elsewhere, is wild folly.
The Bulletin is prepared to believe that
there are very earnest, very sincere men in
the movement. Let them ask themselves,
honestly, whether this country suffers from
the same social diseases as some other coun-
tries, whether the constitutional road to
reform is blocked, and whether the same
medicine is therefore necessary, even from
the revolutionary point of view. In any
case, the duty of the State is clear. If the
anarchist does not see the truth, the State
must at least be prepared to protect itself
from what amounts to the advocacy of
national murder.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia Will Be There.
Scene—Berlin. An Imperial Palace. Seated
in a Council Chamber the Kaiser, Betii-
mann-Hollweg and Von Tirpitz. The
news has just arrived that Australia has
voted No on the Referendum proposals.
The Kaiser : So Bull’s cub has turned
him down. Is that so?
Betiimann-Hollweg : Riehtig, Majestat
[Correct, your Majesty]. The Kangaroo has
proved a quitter and the Anzacs must look
to Russia for reinforcements.
Von Tirpitz : Donner und Blitzen. what a
joke ! Of course the numbers don’t matter,
but the moral effect—it is immense! Nothing
like a little judicious spending of money in
the proper places! Look at Greece —look
at
Hollweg: Not so loud, alter Ivnabe!
Besides, this Australian business is more
dunderheadedness than corruption. The very
idea of trying a Referendum in the middle
of a war to decide whether one should send
reinforcements ! Oh. it is superb !
The Kaiser : Nein, nein, I think the
money has done it. Note that they took no
Referendum as to whether they should enter
the war. They send their boys to the Front;
then we get to work and—the fools ! —they
take a plebiscite as to whether they shall
send their own flesh and blood assistance!
Von Tirpitz:*lt is no matter. Now it is
for us to make the best use of their folly.
Is Berlin beflagged yet?
Hollweg : The city is a sea of Imperial
banners. And I have wired to our Head-
quarters on the Western Front that our
regimental bands shall strike up “Australia
Will Be There.” Gott in Hiinmel —what
a joke!
The Kaiser : After all. these verdammten
Australians are a poor lot. Deserting their
own children ! Ach ! They don’t grasp yet
the big national idea that made old Deutsch-
land great. Ja, it is good ! I was getting
afraid that the British ideas of liberty would
come out on top, after all. Our dream was
slipping from us till this happened. .. .1 hear
London’s in mourning. Send over a dozen
Zeppelins to liven them up with an illumina-
tion and let the Kolnisciie Zeitung and
other right-thinking organs print a few
articles sympathising with John Bull over
his children’s ingratitude. Give ’em a bit
of their Shakspeare :
How harder than a serpent’s tooth it is
To have a thankless child.
Enter messenger with a telegram. Beth-
mann-Hollweg takes it and reads: “On


receipt of the intelligence that Australia had
turned down the Referendum proposal many
of the Australian troops broke out into fits
of furious rage. They say openly they are
shamed by their own people. Some demand
to be placed in the most dangerous positions,
as they do not wish ever to go back to Aus-
tralia. The common expression among them
is ‘ We are betrayed!’ and they want to know
has there been any other example throughout
the war of a people ‘turning dog ’ on its own
soldiers. The phrase ‘Australia scabbed on
us’ is on every Ansae’s lips.”
The Kaiser : Mein Gott ! This is the
richest morsel! More flags. Von Tirpitz !
More crosses for our freundts in Australia.
• • • - What did you say the bands would play?
Oh, “Australia Will Be There!” Ja, ja!
Nortrefflich ! That is the time, “Australia
Will Be There” !
BRISBANE. P, AIREY.
«.
Treasurers on the Spree.
Peacock told his tale concerning Victoria’s
cashbox last week. He also explained what
he was going to do about it. It all made a
weary story. There was the usual flam
about bank deposits and production and
“trade” and all the rest of it, but at rock-
bottom was this —that Victoria has accumu-
lated a deficit of £1,427,000; that Peacock
has to raise an additional £532,000 of revenue
(£11,169,000 not being sufficient), and that
the suggested expenditure for the current
year shows increases in nearly every de-
partment. The statement made by Peacock
is that of a helpless Micawber. The finances
°l Victoria, like those of every other State in
the Commonwealth, are going full-speed to
the Devil, and Peacock, imitating his reck-
less friends beyond the Murray, has nothing
better to propose than to go on with the
Great Push behind, dredging more taxation
out of the. people’s pockets and blithering,
about “facing the position” he resolutely ’
declines to look at. After over two years
of war, with debts growing like prickly-pear
and . taxation leaping upwards after the
fashion of the startled goat, with waste run-
ning a banker, with bloated public services
eating their heads off and allegedly national
enterprises sucking at the public purse, there
is heard from neither Peacock nor anyone
else even a suggestion for stopping the ruin-
ous leaks. All they seem to live for is to
find out how much more the community can
stand. It will not be very long now, appar-
ently, before some State Treasurer will
solemnly make a financial statement on these
lines:—•
The Assembly will be glad to hear that the expendi-
ture during the year was £175,263,842, every effort
having been made to practise rigid economy in view
of the fact that the revenue had fallen to
£32,364,896. Taxation now absorbs 75 per cent, of
the national income, so it is apparent that there is
still a margin left to come and go on. It is pro-
posed to increase all taxes by 15 per cent, and the
incomes of civil servants drawing over £6OO a year
by 30 per cent. The working day will be reduced
to 4-1 hours. The losses on the railways now. amount
to £2,075,613 per annum, but it is expected that
this sum will be recouped from the increased traffic
on suburban lines caused by the population hurrying
up to look for jobs. We have made arrangements to
convert the deficit into permanent debt, bearing inter-
• est at 10 per cent., which in a country with such
abundant natural resources as this cannot be regarded
as excessive. It is expected that the Royal Com-
mission inquiring into the cost of living will be
able to present an interim report before the end of
next year.
Then the Minister for Works will be able to
lay the foundation-stone of a new fowlhouse
at Burstenbung with a light heart and a
face, full of talk about the abounding pro-
sperity to be detected among the adjoining
poultry.
The Amazing Agreement with Norton
Griffiths.
The scandalous Norton Griffiths agree-
ment entered into by the Holman Govern-
ment is giving the expected results. Appar-
ently there is no check upon the syndicate’s
expenditure; and the more it spends the
more commission it draws. A while ago,
pushed by the Auditor-General, the Director-
General of Works, who acts as a sort of go-
between, wrote to the syndicate that “the
expenditure on miscellaneous items appears
to me to closely approach the border-line of
extravagance, and is such that the Depart-
ment would not, I consider, be justified in
incurring were the works carried out by
the Government.” He cited “the designing
of office furniture by an architect and the
payment of his fees [by the State, of
course], on which commission is charged.”
“There are,” he told the Auditor-General,
“many matters in which it is difficult to
define the line of demarcation,” but there
are “others where the impropriety of the
expenditure is obvious, such as the purchase
of horses by Mr. Morton as agent,” and
other things. As for doing anything to
check the extravagance of the syndicate,
however, the officer simply threw up his
hands and groaned at his own helplessness.
Somebody suggested that “a broad view”
should be taken of the agreement; and to
that the Auditor-General smashed in this
reply
I have seen no evidence that the broad view is
taken by the agents [of the syndicate], but rather
that the instances of what the Director of Works
characterises as cases “approaching the border line
of extravagance” abound. If this is to continue the
cancellation of the agreement, referred to by the
Director-General as the only remedy, cannot be
deplored.
But there was more than extravagance;
and, apparently unable to believe that any
Government could agree to such things as
Norton Griffiths claimed the Holman
crowd had done, the Auditor-General con-
sulted the Crown Solicitor. Actually the
syndicate, having been supplied with O.S.
postage stamps, had charged 5 per cent,
commission upon their face value; and he
wanted to know whether such a thing had
to be put up with. The reply was that such
was the nature of this scandalous agree-
ment that Norton Griffiths are entitled
to charge not only 5 per, cent, on the value
of the postage stamps with which the State
supplies them, but also 5 per cent, on the
value of the passes which they get from the
ltailway Department. Comment upon a
Government which would make an agree-
ment of that kind with a syndicate seems
superfluous.
“Treachery.”
In- nearly all their references to Britain
since the war started the Germans have
alluded to “treachery.” Why don’t they pro-
duce their proofs? There is no known utter-
ance of any British Minister or person in
authority that gives any sort of color to the
notion that England went back on the
Teuton. One London paper certainly did
suggest that it would be a comfortable thing
to stand aloof and reap the trade advan-
tages by selling chocolate creams and other
items to the warring nations; but even
Germans could hardly construe that into a
national expression of opinion. The only
visible explanation of the phrase is the racial
one. The theory has long been held that
the English are a Germanic people; and the
spectacle of a Germanic people hitting- a
German people when out for world plunder
no doubt hurts the race instinct of the
Teuton. But he blunders in attempt-
ing to get the racial measure of the English-
man. By his language John Bull is Ger-
manic ; by his skull type and his history he
is half Celt. The proof of it lies in the
fact that the early Saxon and Angle invaders
didn't and couldn’t bring their wives with
them to any extent. The same was true of
the Danes, who came later; though, in
point of. fact, the modern Dane has the
Celto-Latin head, and most likely his roving
great-great-grandfather wore a similar sort
of brain-scuttle. But the German didn’t
worry about these things. On a skull Test
the Teuton was the poorest thing in Europe ;
on a language test he could hold his own.
So the language test was stressed, and the
better and safer gauge of race was ignored.
Now. in the world-struggle, England ranged
on the side of Slav, Celt and Latin —all
identical in race type—seems to the German
an embodied treason. It doesn’t occur to
him as he stoops over his diminished sausage
that in the ages since llengist landed at
Tlianet a lot of the German taint may have
been worked out of the Englishman, just as
the Frankish taint has been mostly hustled
out of the Frenchman. Yet the solid dislike
of the average Briton for the average Ger-
man long before the war broke out might
well have aroused his suspicions.
The Human Life Bogey.
The yell that the sanctity of human life is
involved in the conscription issue, which
caused W. M. Hughes to snort something
that left him open to a lot of misunder-
standing, is frayed and full of ‘holes.
Lives are being sacrificed; and unless
it can be shown that conscription will
cause more lives to be sacrificed than
would otherwise be the case, the yell as
an argument against the national policy is
mere hot air. And of course it can’t be
shown. On the contrary, commonsense
points to the fact that, though some con-
scripts may be killed, the slaughter will
be less on account of the increased force
of the. Allied armies. When a few men
stragglingly attack a strong post, many of
the attackers are slain; when a large force
smashes into a similar position, victory is
swift and the slaughter comparatively
insignificant. Conscription, making for
stronger armies and greater efficiency, must
lessen the loss, and so all the sanctity-of-life
argument is in its favor. But what gives
life its sanctity? Is the life of a shirker
who would not defend his own home sacred?
Is there any sanctity about the life of the
traitor who would sell his home and neigh-
bors to the. enemy? Human life is sacred
only when it fulfils its purpose and stands
in the breach guarding its own and stand-
ing for its own ideals. The fool who
imagines that Leonidas and his 300 would
have been more sacred objects feeding goats
on the slopes of Arcadia than giving their
lives to stop the Persian advance is best left
to his own folly.
The Young Australian Woman.
It is no use merely howling at the Bishop
of Goulburn for his recent references to the
—call it freedom if you like —of a large
number of girls in Australia. The plain
truth is that the statistics on the subject
are wholly unsatisfactory, as The Bulletin
pointed out years ago. In the very midst of
the howls against the parson for “defaming
the young women of the land” Ivnibbs’s
“Official Year Book” for 1015 arrived. Dur-
ing 1914 there were 43,785 nuptial first
births and ex-nuptial births in the Common-
wealth, and no less than 19,442 were either
ex-nuptial births or nuptial births that
occurred in less than nine months after
marriage. Excluding the 3813 children that
were born in the ninth month after mar-
riage, then it is a fair thing to say that of
the 43,785 children born in Australia during
the year 1914 no less than 15,629 were the
result of the “freedom” referred to above.
Put it in the plainest language, 36 out of
every 100 Australian brides anticipate the
conjugal condition ; and how many more do
it without any effect upon the birth stat-
istics Knibbs doesn’t know. It is no use
pretending that this is a satisfactory state
of affairs. In thousands of cases it means
hurried marriages and in hundreds more it
means forced marriages, and both sorts are
liable to be disastrous; and disastrous mar-
riages are not good for the children, who are,
in this paper’s view, the chief consideration
in this matter.
The Bitter Wail for an Imported
Postage Stamp.
Tiie recent appeal of the Post Office to the
public to save postage stamps by using the
higher values, and so placing as few of the
little squares as possible on letters and
packets, and the threat of extra taxation
in cases where this is not done, is one of
the humors of the war. There is a shortage
of paper ; but that the economy should begin
with postage stamps, while hundreds of tons
of printed reports are b.eing wasted every
week, is too grotesque altogether, and that
the Government with small adhesive wares
to sell should threaten with penalties anyone
who buys too many of them seems about the
last thing in futility. It is true that the
paper for postage stamps is specially water-
marked, and that there is supposed to be
some protection against forgery in the letters
and signs which show on the labels when
held up to the light; but there can’t be much
in this idea when big postal countries, like
France, ignore it altogether. Plain paper,
on all the evidence, would do just as well;
and if there isn’t enough of it on which to
print the. stamps, a supply could be secured
by stopping some of the voluminous waste-
paper-basket literature of the Federal Gov-
ernment. Even if somebody did forge the
stamps and succeed in putting them on the
market in quantity—a much more difficult
thing than the actual forgery—the Postal
authorities, on their own showing, ought to
be thankful. If the Post Office is so helpless
that it threatens to punish those who use
its wares too freely, what possible objection
can it have to the forger coming along and
helping it out? Another point, too, in con-
nection with the affair ought to be noted. If
the Commonwealth Government hasn’t
enough of the paper it wants, why does it
issue stamps half as big again as those of
most countries? If the authorities won’t
allow the paper to be made here at least they
could get local artists to produce smaller
designs and effect an economy that way.
But the whole thing, first and last, is plain
humbug. The best paper that could be used
for printing stamps is the old hand-made
stuff which could be produced by a most
rudimentary plant in a suburban backyard
with the watermark in its place and every-
thing else in order. The raw material
wanted is simply a linen or cotton rag, and
the tariff-sinkers could comfort their souls
with the thought that, even if an Australian
industry did get started in this way, the
basis of the enterprise was still the shoddy
imported from overseas. The war isn’t doing
us much good, anyway, if it can’t enable us
to rise to the height of independence neces-
sary to produce a postage stamp.
♦
If conscription means militarism, as some
people say it does, then thank God for mili-
tarism ! When the German hordes had
poured through Belgium what chance would
France have had of bringing her men into
line if she had been obliged to Tevert to the
good old circus poster and the route marches
of the Wandering Wombats, the recruiting
methods of the voluntary system? With
France crushed and her fleet captured it
would have been all up with us. But, thanks
to “militarism,” no nation, taken by surprise
as France was, ever pulled herself together
so speedily and so effectively. Already
trained to the use of arms, her conscript
citizens stepped into the ranks as the call
came, until the world saw the splendid spec-
tacle of a magnificently-organised democracy
in which the business of the nation, civil and
military, moved as if by clockwork. And
when the edifice was put to the final test at
Verdun, the resilient but unbreakable wall
of France’s conscript armies proudly with-
stood the shock of Germany’s mightiest
efforts. If conscription really means mili-
tarism, which it doesn’t, because teaching
people how to fight doesn't necessarily make
them want to fight, then in remembering the
evils that Prussian militarism has brought
on the world the evils that French mili-
tarism has saved it from should not be for-
gotten. And to France, alone among all the
nations in the struggle—to her for proving
that a democracy can be great in war as in
peace, the world owes a debt it can never
pay. But it should repay as much as it
can ; and to-day is the time to do it.
[L. 0. Wilkinson, Hampton, N.S.W.]
The gallant anti-conscriptionists who said
that, having our own skins to save, we might
hire Russians to fill the gaps in the Aus-
tralian ranks, are not likely to say it again.
This is what they got from the Russian Con-
sul-General in Australia :—■
As a Russian I cannot allow to pass without
comment the anti-conscviptionist proposal to “hire”
Russian troops to fight instead of Australians. The
mere idea of such a thing is not only ridiculous, but
extremely offensive to every Russian, and I hope at
least equally offensive to all true Australian man
hood. Has not Russia ever since the outbreak of the
war been fighting just as much for all the Allies,
including Australia, as she has for her own self?
Has not every drop of Russian blood shed on the
battlefields of Galicia and Armenia contributed to
the safeguard of Australian liberty? \
The Russian soldier, thank God, fights f\om his
sense of patriotism and duty, and not because he
likes to. He fights for God, Czar and country, and
not from business motives. He fights for a sub-
lime ideal, but not for filthy lucre. Money will
never induce the Russian to fight, no matter how
Poor or ignorant a peasant he may be. He would,
indeed, feel inclined to fight against the man who
proposed to pay him for “professional assassina-
tion.” It is despicable enough for a man to refuse
to fight for his own country, but it is—at least in
Russian eyes—far more despicable still to hire
aliens to do so.
-4
“Mizzen” : Is there any reason why, if
changes are made on the bridges of the
Commonwealth’s new line, Australian
masters and mates should not be given a
chance to apply for the jobs? Towards the
end of August the Federal Navigation Dept,
was certain of two things: (1) That a
marine superintendent was not going to be
.appointed at present; and (2) if one was
appointed later the fact would be announced
and applications invited. Well, the fact was
proclaimed later on with so much emphasis
that no one heard about it until it was dis-
covered that an “acting” superintendent had
been installed. When the first of the line —
the Australdale—arrived the other day it
was found that the master in charge was
leaving, and his place was being taken by a
master who had been sent from London as
passenger in another steamer. This man is
a master drawing a pension from the 8.1.
Co. As there happen to be men in Australia
to whom the job would have meant some-
thing, and who are not drawing pensions,
the reason for ruling them out might at any
rate be explained—if it can be.
♦-
A prominent N. S. Wales cleric has been
rushing his surplice into the limelight with
the declaration that Australia needs a “new
sense of sin.” The Bulletin thinks so,
too. Gaols are emptying, and so are the
churches; and it is evident that if those
places are not soon filled again the parson’s
job may have no gilt around its edges. A
few additions to the Ten Commandments
are therefore urgently required. Who is
going to make the additions does not seem
clear. Moses may or may not be dead;
and, even if he is, there are some splendid
Australians among the Light Horse who
could do just as well, and as they are in the
neighborhood of Sinai there is a unique
opportunity for them to get up to the peak
again and write the new sins down. First
on the supplementary table of stone should
be written the words: “Thou shalt not cry
Stinking Fish”; and the second: “Thou
shalt hold up thy head and say, ‘The other
fellow may do it better to-day, but I shall
make a start and lick him to-morrow.’ ”
With the assistance of adequate duties, no
Australian industry should be more bene-
fited by the war, when peace comes, than
woollens. In executing enormous orders for
a few types of khaki garments the mills
have demonstrated to the old stinking-fish
critics their ability to turn out a surpris-
ingly first-class article. They have special-
ised in certain cloths for uniforms and
have achieved the best results. ' The British
Tommy is envious of his antipodean cousin’s
duds. Billjim’s outfit looks well and wears
better. There are many Billjims who had
never worn Australian-woven clothes before
they went into camp. Now they hope to
be clad in local products when they have
done with the Hun and got back to ordinary
business. The immediate policy of the mills
when the abnormal Government demand for
khaki ceases should be to take up the trade
lines of least resistance, or no resistance at
all, instead of chasing the fashions as they
fly. The production of “latest” materials
and patterns could be left to British manu-
facturers who have a wider output and can
better afford to experiment in new designs,
whilst the local mills made specialities of
the plain cloths that are always in demand
and are chosen on their merits for dura-
bility and “finish”—the dark blue, grey and
brown stuffs which shrink not after being
out in a thunderstorm, nor stretch unduly,
nor get easily stained and spotted before
the. world. Also the various textile fabrics
which serve as trappings arfd suits of woe,
or evening dress, or for waiters. These are
the materials that could and should be so
well made in Australia as to justify their
protection by a prohibitive tariff—with
something with boiling oil in it for the
manufacturers who joined in any combine
to puff up prices and thereby defeat the
purposes of the national policy.
Annexing the Banana.
ivANDOLPH Bedford after inquiry:—
The bulk of the people of Fiji are seriously against
annexation to Australia, and for perfectly good
reasons. The handful of white people in the country
can be governed only on present lines unless the
Fijian is admitted to citizen rights, and that would
swamp the white man. Viti Levu alone is twice
the size of Jamaica and probably even more fertile.
Fiji is ideal rubber, sugar and cattle country, free
of malaria, and the one island of Viti Levu alone
will yet carry a bigger population than that of
Jamaica. Out of a total population of 140,000 or
so only about 4500 are vhites, and therein is an in-
surmountable reason against White Australia annex-
ing the group except as a Territory. Government
as a Territory of Australia might be better for the
white Fijian than Government as a Crown Colony
of Britain; yet the whites in Papua are as much
against the Commonwealth Government as if it
were worked from Downing-street. Cattle country
for leasing in Fiji is dearer than in North Aus-
tralia, and owing to the arrangements as to native
ownership it will continue so.. As the first reason
for any man’s being against the Government is the
condition of land tenure and rental, it is easy to
see that annexation would be up against trouble
with the first batch of new Australian settlers. But
the chief Australian objection is that the production
of a low-wage territory could not be permitted
export to a high-wage country like the Common-
wealth. The Crown Colony scheme is, indeed, the
only one possible at present. Under it, though there
are elected members, officials and nominees govern as
absolutely as if Downing-street were removed to
Suva. To the planter it is sympathetic, to the
native paternal, and what its attitude to the
C.S.R. Co. nobody 'appears to know.
The country doesn't need annexation, but it badly
calls for some ordinance to put the impudent C.S.R.
in its place. And it wants roads more than any-
thing. Its finances are all right; but it calls for
heavier taxation for development, and if it be pos-
sible it should have a land tax to incidentally force
hundreds of thousands of acres into work. The
Public Service, too, should gradually wipe out its
too-long pension list in favor of compulsory insur-
ance for all new officers. T notice that a retired
Chief Justice receives £9OO a year. I wonder
whether this was the judicial officer who in a land-
titles case had the Torrens Act mentioned to him
by counsel. He waved Torrens out of existence.
We don’t want to hear about any Australian experi-
mental legislation, ’ he said. And the planter wants
money on the Credit Foncier scheme. To the direct
money-lender he now pays 10 per cent., but that
is mere philanthropy compared with what he
suffers from the clutches of the merchants who
handcuff him more tightly than a tied house is held
by a brewery. On the .sentimental side an agitation
for annexation comes from the homesick Australian
Who compares Fiji with Australia to Fiji's disadvan-
tage, the more because of the di Here pees in trade,
opinion and feeling between Australian and English.
The English people won’t have Australian goods if
they can help it; even the Indian coolie won’t buy
tobacco manufactured in Australia, although certain
lines are now being exported to England. For this
misunderstanding the narrowness of the oversea
people seems mostly to blame. That narrowness in
l 1 iji prevents the Australian settler seeing that the
despotism of Downing-street is in the main bene-
ficent. And this is a pity, for Fiji is very Aus-
tralian, North Queensland on a big scale, in fact,
and the Australian is naturally at home in the
country.


I
Gifts for Our
Soldier Friends.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values: —
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/0
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case 47-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
|654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.,
Established over 30 Years.
The debate on the conscription issue waxes
somewhat discordant. The spirit of courtesy
should be introduced by inspiration from
that royal and courtly spirit King George
IV. topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
sdf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
APPOINTMENT
sdf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/ per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.,
SCRUBS <& CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bo e.
sdf
■
mm I
B
LONG LIFE
FOR LOCKS!
A drop or two of
‘3-in-one
-Oil-
will make bolts
work free and easy.
Another drop on the
hinges will stop that
nerve-rncking squeak.
Use it, too, for Clocks.
Gramophones and
Lawn Mowers. Never
gums or cakes!
Prevents Bust, Tar-
nish and Verdigris.
A*k your Dealer for
" THREE-IN-ONE.”
Accept no imitation.
Sample Bottle free
from
REID AND REID,
H
Australasian Agents,
ABB IS STBEET,
Wellington. N.Z.
HALNgJ;#
The Cock and Bull Story and the Daily
Perjury.
During the last six months 7242 yarns have
been printed in Australian newspapers to
prove that Germany was on the verge of
being down and out. Also there have
appeared multitudinous efforts in expansive
type about victories and the enemy’s dwin-
dling man-power and empty bingy and all
the rest of it. The Bulletin has continu-
ally protested against this sort of thing, and
it protests again that the war news served
up to the people has been poison. Through
the combined influences of a censorship
which was either fat-headed or German, we
don’t know which, and a press stuffed with
pothouse brag, the public has been induced
to entertain ideas about the war that were
not only ludicrous but shndderingly danger-
ous. Instead of the public realising that
every month emphasised the magnitude of
the disturbance and the need for every ounce
of power the Allies were capable of exerting,
90 per cent, of the population have gone
around with mouths full of cocksure prophecy
about an early win. For this the Govern-
ment is very largely to blame, and most of
the trouble it now has on hand can be
directly attributed to its folly in giving a
prolonged imitation of an ostrich on the
sandhills. The evidence about Germany
beina on the down-grade has never been
worth 2d. Much of it has been manufactured
by the German himself, in order first to cool
off British recruiting and afterwards to
choke off conscription. The real testimony
that the Hun had a tremendous punch in
both hands has always been emphatic and is
that way still. The promptness with which
he hit Boumania shows his condition. A
country that can do a thing like that is
about as debilitated as an elephant in the
prime of life. Whether Germany over-
whelms Koumania or not, the readiness with
which Fritz has met the threatened danger
discloses him to be still so powerful that
we cannot afford to waste a pound that we
can put into our punch ; and glib assurances
about victory for the Allies being in sight
bear a close resemblance to treason. There
is no getting away from what this paper
has been saying (when it has been allowed
to) for over two years—that hopes of vic-
tory before the Allies are all-in are fatuous.
And most of them are all-in, or very near
it. Now what about Australia? Is she
going to take a punter’s chance or keep
busy ?
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior. D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Reflections for the Laborite wlvo says
that conscription is all right for home
defence but not for foreign service: —
Since the beginning of time the warrior has
always “gone forth” to war. In none of the
world’s battle-songs does the hero gird on his sword
and sit in the front parlor waiting to be sniped
through the window.
This war only once called on Germany at home.
The results were so appalling to the Germans that
the Kaiser wept over “my dear province of East
Prussia.”
About the only advantage Germany retains is
that all the fighting is going on in somebody vise’s
country. If Germany could have one day of the
Somme programme on German soil it would agree
to almost anything.
Where would England be if it had waited for the
war to come to it instead of going out and helping
to stop it far from home?
[Ernest O’Furr all, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Killed in France, Captain C. A. Littler,
D.S.O. At the time of the V.D.L. Bank
smash, Littler was manager of the branch
at Zeehan (Tas.), and was transferred
to Hobart as one of the liquida-
tors. He afterwards started in busi-
ness at Devonport, and, later, was
general manager of the North-Western
Farmers’ Ass., which has branches in all the
coast towns. Rubber took him to the Phil-
ippines, and he did a little contracting for
supplies for Uncle Sham’s army. When
Europe went mad, the ex-banker remem-
bered he had had some experience in the
old Tasmanian Rangers, and was soon in
uniform again. He won his D.S.O. at Gal-
lipoli. Two sons at the Front are both
wounded, and one has just been awarded the
Military Cross.
The vacancy for a F.M. at Port Pirie
(S.A.), caused by the promotion of S. J.
Mitchell to Adelaide, is to be filled by Noel
Webb, one of Adelaide’s numerous literary
lawyers. Webb is a solid man every way—
a crack rifleshot, among other things, and an
enthusiast on that subject. Years ago he
did good work as mayor of another outport,
Augusta. Since moving to Adelaide he has
been in partnership with the Nesbits, and
latterly with Kelly, formerly of Darwin.
Now that Webb has gone on to the Bench.
Kelly joins Barwell. another country lawyer
come to town as M.L.A.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “To-night’s the Night”
Royal “While the Billy Boils
Criterion “Romance
Palace “Happy-Go-Lucky O Shea
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt's Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Red Dandies
Town Hall Paul Dufault Concerts
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WFEK.
Her Majesty's “The Cinema Star”
Royal - “Under Fire”
King’s “Lovers’ Lane
Princess’s “The Matinee Girl, etc.
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia. St. Hilda The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Last week Sydney opera-goers listened to
tlie melodies of Donizetti’s “La Favorita.”
The pretty stranger was an immediate
success. In spite of the occasional vagaries
of the horn department the orchestra was in
good form. The fiddlers showed up much
better than usual —inspired, perhaps, by an
almost ferocious demeanor on the part of
their usually placid conductor Gonsalez.
With more consistent support tenor Cappelli
surprised even his- warmest admirers. As
Fernando, the novice who forsakes the mon-
astic life for the love of Leonora (Miss
Russ), he was an alchemist who turned his
music into gems. . After a glittering interval
as a hero, Fernando returns to the Simple
Life. In monk’s garb, plus a heavy mous-
tache, he sings the famous “Spirito Gentil,”
while the repentant Leonora dies by inches
at his feet. But, of course, she has first to
warble a death-song against Fernando’s
shirt-front. It was a tremolo in excelsis.
Belloui, a majestic figure as King Alfonso,
suffered from the same vocal ague. Though
Cacialli was evidently in pain from a
damaged ankle, his voice was as sure-footed
as usual. liis big basso did its duty behind
the solemn beard, of a chief monk or papal
delegate. The chorus (did Gonsalez shake it
up with a threatening fist?) was in tune
from start to finish.
“To-Night’s the Night” is still explaining
itself at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) and thank-
ing Heaven, for the delayed entry of summer
—the season when no player in Australia
can mop the perspiring brow for fear of
streaking the complexion.
Tlie fire is dying down, and “While the
Billy Boils” will he available for only eight
more nights at Sydney Royal.
The success of Madge Fabian in
“Romance” has happily led to an extension
of the season at Sydney Criterion. Edward
Sheldon’s play is so admirably written that
it improves on acquaintance; and there
aren’t many (or any) other American plays
of which that can be said. Frank Harvey,
when lie isn't deplorably bishing, is usually
pillowing his head on his arms and shaking
with emotion. He shakes well, too.
“Happy-Go-Lucky O’Shea,” Allen Doone’s
play at the Palace (Sydney), is still going
strong. The Bulletin mentions . tliis in
case a stranger happens to drop into the
city from Alice Springs.
The Tivoli Follies continue to hand out
their quick-lunch entertainment at the Syd-
ney headquarters; but company and orches-
tra combined cannot make as big a row as
the ad.-writer does. Really he’s more like
“MADAME BUTTERFLYAT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Lieut. Pinkerton (Lois) and Butterfly
(Miss Gonsales).
a rival than a retainer. One of the bright-
est things in the bill is the humorous danc-
ing interlude by Sydney Yates and Walter
Weems, who is the inventor and sole
patentee of the Dixie Soup Shuffle which
he uses as the blackfaced waiter.
At Melbourne Majesty’s there is a large
public demand for the ornate story of the
little man who went to a picture factory
and fell among thieves. The male ac-tois
relieve Josiah of his fur-trimmed overcoat
and patent-leather shoes, and the gnls 10
him of his peace of mind. It counts foi
virtue in “The Cinema Star’ that Ilorence
Young puts matters right for Josiah at tl e
finish and the other girls are sorry for him,
while the feeble villain of the piece is left to
chew the rag. Most other musical comedies
have given the stern moralist a bad taste
in the mouth, but here is a frivolous enter-
tainment in which the only matron is appal-
lingly proper and the sins of the spinsteis
are merely venial. Minnie Love
Payne, in fact, are guiltless of ‘ carry-
ing-on” with any male person. Miss Lo\e,
to be sure, makes some sentimental refer-
ences in song to an unknown stranger who
has won her heart. But though she accuses
herself of being only a broken doll her
vigorous slanguage and keen appetite lor
food seem to belie the allegation. Jsobody
else makes any pretence to sentimentality.
When Ethel Cadman emerges from a lift,
after slumbering for two hours on the
shoulder of Roberts, she announces hei
engagement in the tone ot one who con-
siders her future husband to be of less im-
portance than the trousseau and wedding
presents. Clyde Cook, the eccentric dancer,
is repeating his first, successes, the pierretteS
in white satin are a dream of fair, legs as
before, and Maggie Dickinson continues to
happen incidentally as a burglar Boy Blue,
Melbourne Royal, closed for the moment,,
reopens on Saturday with a revival ot
Julius Knight and co. Julius will heroise
for one week in “Under Fire” previous to
folding his arms across his breast and figur-
ing as the Emperor who gave Josephine the
chuck.
Dad Rudd and family will stop their pre-
sent proceedings at Melbourne King’s on
“ HAPPY-GO-LUCKY O'SHEA," AT
SYDNEY PA LACE.
Allen Doone in disguise and Bailiff Lynch
on the warpath.
Friday. On Saturday the co. will be aug-
mented by Harry Plimmer and others for
a reproduction of “Lovers’ Lane."
* * * *
The St. Ivilda (Melb.) show season
started last Saturday with a rush to Arca-
dia, where the Pink Dandies have dug-in
for the summer. Nigel Brock’s little crowd
of Dandies have a pretty pink setting behind
and above them, and a pretty bright orches-
tra in front. Also they break the mon-
otony of their frivol by changing their cos-
tume two or three times, instead of remain-
ing stereotyped seaside entertainers to the
end. This seems the more necessary
because the programme has no burlesque or
vaudeville turns to speak of, one of the
comedians having been called away to a
temporary engagement at a private hospital.
The combination as it stands is practically
a humorous concert -company of educated
vocalists, who shine in the concerted num-
bers and rarely permit any item to
remain a solo. The baritone, Marshall
Lawrence, has a father tremendous voice:
the comedienne, Ida Newton, is quite a
modest little Idaisy in her way; Joseph
Brennan treats some ancient pantomime
business with a light, graceful touch ; Lalla
Ward has a nice soprano voice, and the
other half-dozen contribute freely to the
show’s musical air of refinement.
The. absence of anything like intelligent
conduct in “The Matinee Girl” and “In Joy-
land” was responsible for The Bulletin
spending another mournful evening at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday. The humor
is again the most painful feature, each
comedian revealing inexplicable ecstasy in
his attempts to pinch his partner’s surplus
cash. Quantities of dollar bills change
hands by pocket-picking, crude swindles and
other doubtful transactions; in fact, the
performance is mostly a display ot uncle
Samuel’s favorite reading. Meanwhile Lew
Dunbar puts the English language to ter-
rible uses in strange altercations with Lon
Moreni. The latter, apparently replacing
the recent Yiddish jester, Murray J. Simons,
arouses commiseration by his efforts to load
an English johnny part with mote vacuity
"THE FOLLIES ,” AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Walter Weems and Billy Rego.
than the character can bear. The sihgiag
ranges from good in the case ot the
Duquesne quartette to worse; and the chorus
provides the usual physical backing, though
its legs are not availed of with the old
enthusiasm.
** * *
The Dandies are at their old summer pas-
time of dragging custom from the city
theatres to the Garden, at the top of y\ u-
liam-street, Sydney. Branscombe, the bright
show’s manager, seems to take it all in good
part.
Wirtlis’ Circus, ivhich persists in being
the Greatest Show on Earth, makes its
annual return to Melbourne on Saturday.
All sorts of astounding novelties are pro-
mised, apart from May Wirth, whose clever
performance on the burly steed won honor-
able mention last s>ear. A novelty in a
circus is a mighty hard thing to get, but
the Wirths’ advt. is full of promise, and
The Bulletin hopes for the best.
j'; *»* j{i
The first part of the Melbourne Tivoli
bill is no better for the reappearance of Dan
Ahern, the whistling fiddler, who is nothing
much of either. The second part remains
in the hands of the Strollers, who keep busy
for 70 minutes without giving encores, lheii
programme was somewhat . changed o 1
Saturday, two fresh items being a skit on
railway travelling by Sydney James and
company and a new naval song wherein
George Gray stone defies the Germans with
the utmost vigor of his bass.
Official pictures of the Somme fighting
brought the Big Push very close to Hoyts
supporters in Melbourne last Saturday, d.he
film, which is nearly a mile m length, is
the most intimate record of actual war con-
ditions that has yet been screened in this
part of the world. The camera hasn t
spared the spectator many details; but still
if he gets depressed by the sight of the
casualties he will also be heartened by the
portents of victory as shown by the huge
accumulations of guns and the bright, con-
fident grin of Thomas Atkins. Some of the
best parts of the picture depict innumerable
Mr. Atkins marching gaily into battle with
a song on liis lips. In Sydney the pictuie
is shown at the Lyceum and Crystal Palace.
Branscombe’s various Dandies have long
had the Exhibition Garden in Adel-
aide. but this summer they cross over
North Terrace to the Austral Gardens.
Wondergraph pictures also start their
open-air branch. At the Tivoli, Andei-
son puts up the unlikely but strongly
Australian “Bush Girl,” and promises
Maggie Moore to follow. At the Majestic
are now Early and Laight and the Raleighs,
and in the “revue” half Jack Kearns con-
tinues to stand about and score off his com-
panions in the Jack Cannot manner.


HENKES’ SCHNAPPS
DISTILLED IN HOLLAND.
An absolutely ideal tonic. Awarded many gold medals for purity.
HAUNTING MUSIC !
TO-NIGHT’S THE NIGHT”
PAUL A. RUBENS,
Vocal Score, Selection, Fox-trot, One-step and Separate Songs.
To-nigHt’s the Nig(Ht” Waltz
Rival to the Famous “THE PINK LADY” Waltz.
HIT of the P ece (( THE ONLY WAY.”
Sung by ALFRED FRITH.
OF ALL MUSIC-SELLERS.
CHAPPELL.
iiumiiiiimm iiiiiuil
Cellular Underwear
TROPICAL WEIGHT POROUS TEXTURE
So light you do not feel its touch, so open in texture that
air circulates to the body.
It is hygienic underwear, comfortable, durable and economical.
We recommend these two lines for hot-day wear: —
Cellular Undershirts, 1-sleeves, 34 to 44 chest 6/6
Trunk Drawers, loose-fitting- legs, 32 to 44 waist 6/6
Lace-cotton Shirts and Trunk Drawers, sizes as abave —
5/6 each
We pay postage. Please state chest and waist measurements.
Our new supplementary Catalogue has just been issued. Copies
posted on request.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 CSt 311 George Street, Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Fax”: There is beauty and talent in the
Williamson chorus as of: old, and better
"style” than ever there was, but the vocal
strength of chorus and principals seems to
have steadily declined within the past 39
or 20 years. We get a new sweet voice of mag-
nitude occasionally, though Gladys Monerieff
is the only one of recent note ; or a clever,
sparkling Dorothy Brunton with a nice little
voice; or a winsome Nellie Payne, who
has no singing powers to speak of. But
from the two or three musical companies
that tour under Williamson management
nowadays you couldn’t pick an array of
vocal talent to compare with what the Firm
had under engagement, on and off, during
the late ’Bo’s and early ,’9o’s. Australia
isn’t producing the wealth of voices that she
did when Melba was a girl. And that’s all
about it. Florence Young at her very best
was only one in a little bunch of good,
honest songstresses with plenty of stuff in
their notes. She was contemporary with
Nellie Stewart in her prime, Flo Granpner,
Violet Yarley, Fanny Liddiard, Ida Osborne,
May Pollard and two or three others who
had voice enough to let an audience hear all
the words of their ditties. The Firm has
never had such an abundance of material
within the present century. Bright new
voices are heard in the chorus but infre-
quently, and if the owners also possess a
bright intelligence and appearance they soon
take their goods to a seaside showman and
become Dandies, or Buttercups, or Friskies,
or something.
James W. Hazlitt, manager for J.C.W.
at Sydney Criterion, has just lost another
son, this one in France. He was a sergeant
in the 51st Westralian Battalion, was
wounded at the Front and being removed
to a hospital at Cambridge died there on
September 21. Twelve months ago Mr.
Ilazlitt lost his eldest son. the well-known
cricketer. All Poverty Point sympathises
with him.
“Minim” : Died the other day, at Uxbridge,
England, Dr. Osmond Carr, who was respon-
sible for the score of “Morocco Bound,” the
first of the present type of musical comedy.
After the Gilbert-Sullivan split the librettist
turned to him, and together they produced
“His Excellency.” But either the vein had
been worked out or the new partnership
didn’t know how to tackle it.
“C.M.”: “Lookout Man” (B. 12/10/T6)
ought to get down to earth. He says that
the forthcoming production of “Damaged
Goods” shows that the J.C.W. management
“even cares for Australian morals.” The
question discussed in the Brieux play is not
morals but health. He has got fact mixed
with conventions. If he would climb down
from his perch and get a copy of the play
lie would realise that he was one of the
benighted crowd Brieux is addressing.
Shaw in his preface to “Damaged Goods”
also has a word for him when he says, “One
hardly knetos whether to laugh or cry at
such perverse stupidity.”
The lovely anti-conscription suggestion
that Russian troops should be hired to sup-
plv Australian deficiencies was worthy of
Deacon Skinner, the sanctimonious rascal in
“Struck Oil.” The Deacon, you remember,
engaged honest John Stofel, the Dutchman,
to serve ns his “substitution” in the Ameri-
can Civil War.
Pinero’s “Sweet Lavender” doesn’t strike
one’s recollections as being the sort of senti-
mental comedy that could be effectively
adapted for the film. Nevertheless, the
author received £lOOO for the cinema rights.
Many another play, almost forgotten, has
lately earned a fat fee for the man who
thought, when lie was writing it, that dia-
logue was necessary. To-day he gets quite
a lot of money for permitting the creatures
of his brain to flit like silent ghosts across
the screen.
“S.S.” : It was between the acts in a Mel
bourne theatre. A fine young player of 58
had been doing his darnedest with a charac-
ter part, and the young gentleman in front
of me was discussant him with the old gentle-
man on his left. "What screw, now. do
you think a man like that should get?" the
young fellow asked coekilv. The answer
came with concentrated bitterness. "Screw?
Thumbscrew !”
Sybil Arundale, known in Australia as a
shapely panto, boy and a bright musical-
comedy girl, has taken to the "legitimate."
At latest from London she was playing
Madge Titherndge's part in "Tiger Cub" on
tour.
"Glen II.”: It is a fixed delusion with
the Firm that its patrons do not care tup-
pence about the "book" of a musical comedy
provided the "production" is all right. Tin-
result is that practically no musical play is
put on here until its book has been merci-
lessly backed, its plot cut off in the flower
of its youth, so to speak, and some of its
musical numbers fired to make way for
others, often absurdly unsuitable. “The
“Cinema Star" is tiie latest case in point.
It was fixed up by Jean Gilbert. J. Ilulbert
and Harry Graham, two of them, at least,
experienced artificers; but so little of their
work remains in the version presented at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) that the manage-
ment has not the heart—or “hide”—to put
the names of authors and composer on the
“THE CINEMA
STAR," AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Deret Hudson as a lord.
Clyde Cook the
rolling stone.
programme, although, naturally, the "pro-
ducer” is mentioned in large type. Appar-
ently when the firm buys a London musical-
comedy success nowadays it pays for the
name, for often this is about all that is left
of the original script after the “producer”
and comedians have done their worst. Some
day managements may realise that a good
“book” is one of the things most likely to
make a musical comedy popular. Recall
three of the outstanding successes of recent
years—-“ The Merry Widow,” “The Arca-
dians” and “Our Miss Gibbs”; all well pro-
vided iu this respect.
Dorothy Gard’ner is back on the Fuller
circuit iir Australia —with Cuthbert Rose
and Kitty Checkett. who’s got a singing bird
in her voice-box. The combination brought
a peck of good wishes from the Maoriland
circuit, where their wholesome fun left the
edge-of-the-world people rocking on a seventh
wave of merriment.
“J.F.H.”: Queenslander William Archer,
leading London dramatic critic, lias been
stirring up a hornet’s nest by a slashing
attack on the variety theatres and the frivol-
ous fare they provide. From a literary stand-
point their songs are certainlv beneath con-
tempt. In 50 years not one of them
has made a permanent contribution to Eng-
lish literature. The Bananalander suggests
as a remedy something after the fashion of
the U.S.A. Drama League, which draws up
a report upon every production of note, and
circulates it among its thousands of sub-
scribers, thus providing a guide to intelligent
play-going. He would like to see in London
“a list, easily accessible to everybody, of
those entertainments which decent and intel-
ligent people regard as generally desirable —
a handy guide to respectable and not too silly
entertainments." Such a catalogue certainly
would have its value. The person who
wanted mere amusement—as most persons
who pay at the ticket office do —would know
where not to go to get it.
"F.N.T.” : Probably the least exciting
bob’s worth offered by any Melbourne show-
management is at the Aquarium. There is
an orchestra, the seals give a performance
every day. afternoon-tea is on tap, and there
are plenty of fish to look at —altogether a
pleasant, quiet afternoon’s entertainment for
Bill and bis girl when they want to get away
from the crowd. However, there are weeds
in most gardens. For some unexplained
reason the Aquarium people have these many
years included a trained-dog performance,
and latterly there have been monkeys as
well. Neither of these animals has anything
to do with lish. It may be urged that the
most popular turn the Aquarium ever pro-
vided wasn’t a fish-act either. Thai was the
Kellcrman swimming and diving exhibition.
But a trained dog is such a poor, shivering,
humble, frightened, anxious thing that it is
hard to understand why the Aquarium
authorities don't “have a heart,” and just
stick to their lish. If they can’t make a
success of things without pressing a row of
cringing, barbered dogs into their service the
place ought to be shut up.
Dear Bulletin,—l have been a playgoer
all my life. True, I have never paid for my
seats. But I have supported the theatre at
all times and seasons. On no occasion have
l refused to accept a pass. Many and many
a night. I can truthfully claim, the curtain
would have been raised on a beggarly array
of empty benches but for me and a few rela-
tives ana friends. Also, I have attended
dutifully in all weathers —wet, muggy, torrid
and frosty—especially frosty. I have
a pula tided, with the help of the ushers, more
rotten plays than I can count. I have laughed
and set the house in a roar at the perspiring
comedy man when, but for my .presence, the
poor wretch would have been unable to raise
a smile. I have cheered with might and main
every Neutral piece that lias been put on—
and Heaven knows there have been many!
1 have made it my business to encourage the
down-hearted Yankee mummers, far from
their homeland, who have obviously been
overburdened with grief at the thought that
Australian fooling has been against their
country. In short, I have done more —much
more—for the drama than hundreds of blase
“regular” patrons who pay for their seats
only when the word goes round that the show
and the legs are worth seeing. And what is
my reward V A cold-blooded, ungrateful
Federal Treasurer threatens to make me
plank down my money at the box-office &nd
tax me for doing it! Not if I know it, sir.
The tb“atre« can go to tlm Devil las they
assuredly will) for me! Henceforth I shall
stay away from them. —Yours, Ex-Free-
Lister.
“Lud" : Cochran is the great exploiter of
tlie English revues. The Drury-lane one,
“Razzle-Dazzle,” is said to have cost over
£2(4.000 to put on. Average cost, about
£OOO0 —according to Cochran. Yet he only
spent £2OO on his first, which ran 400
nights at the Ambassadors, the biggest salary
being £2O a week. Best male stars were
Robey and Graves. Cochran: “If Robey
gets £250 a week at the Alhambra, in ‘The
Bing Boys are Here,’ he is well worth it.”
Oswald Stoll. London Opera House, says: "I
won’t have any humbug. It’s not a fact that
I pay Ethel Levy £6OO a week.” But Coch-
ran chimes in: “She is an enormous acquisi-
tion. and I know she has been paid £3OO a
week in previous engagements.” Go on the
stage, young woman!
The Academy of Music (London), to
which so many Australian Melbas go, has
had to give up opera performances owing to
lack of young men singers; and of all its
old clerical staff the only one remaining is
a soldier who has done his hit and come
hack.
(Continued on page 35.)
The other day a Dunedin (M.L.) school-
marm was handed the following note:
■‘Ernest could not go on munday he was
sufring with toothegg and was laying in
bed all day.”
“Hamer”: The Clerks’ Union is a busy
body in X. S. Wales just now. Since it
secured the right, after a fight extending over
seven years, to turn the crank of the Indus-
trial Arbitration Act, thousands of pen-
pusliers have become unionists, and. section
by section, awards are being made. Last week
a log for wharf and tally clerks was issued,
rates being fixed at Is. lid. per hour, with a
minimum of four hours on any job, rates and
a half for overtime, and double rates for holi-
days, Sundays and meal hours. The scale is
equivalent to about £4 4s. a week. In another
sectional award £2 12s. 6d. was lixed as the
minimum weekly wage, it being, apparently,
Hie idea of the Wages Board to consider the
general wage rates in the industry in which
the clerks are employed, rather than the
reponsibilities of their work. Generally the
awards are improving the conditions, and the
traditional 30-bob-a-week clerk is presently
to disappear. The fly in the ointment is the
refusal of tin 1 Boards to recognise the prin-
ciple of equal pay for equal work done by
men and women. .Jill may still be secured at
about one-half or two-thirds of the salary
that .Tack commands, and so she remains a
menace to goodwill and Christian amity.
Killed in action, Captain J. McNamara,
good sport and dead shot, lie represented
the Speck at the inter-State rifle matches
of lIKIS, 11410 and 1012. In 1908 he scored
the Launceston double —the grand aggre-
gate, carrying the Gardiner trophy, and the
champion medal : in 1909 he won the north-
ern district championship: and at the
I’ II.A. meeting of 1913 he carried off the
State championship.
.1. I*. Piekburn, just appointed to act as
District Court Judge in X. S. Wales, is a
son of a former well-known Sydney doctor.
His new Honor graduated at Sydney Uni. in
1892, and took his LL.B. in '95, when he
was admitted to the X.S.W. Bar. lie has
not yet taken silk. With him goes up —for
a while, at any rate —F. S. Boyce, a son
of X. S. Wales's highly-respected old
gaitered water-waggoner.
A female old age pensioner who died at
Bendigo the other day took no chances in the
matter of securing Christian burial. She was
found lying dead in her house, and on the
premises was a document which set forth
that in return for a certain sum a local
undertaker agreed to do all that was neces-
sary. Receipts showed that the full amount
agreed upon had been paid by instalments
extending over three years, so the prudent
old dame was well and truly tucked away.
“Charter -Party”: An irate Slav sailed
from Port Jackson last week when the
skipper of the Russian barque Lindisfarne
got under weigh. Three months ago the
vessel arrived, and after discharging cargo
was about to leave for Newcastle to load
coal for Chile, thence with nitrates to
France. But the Commonwealth authori-
ties wouldn't allow her to take coal to
Chile, nor would they allow her to go to sea
empty. Instead, they ordered the skipper
to load wheat. He dug himself in behind
his charter and refused. For months the
dispute raged, while the Lindisfarne lay idle
and the world at large howled for tonnage.
Finally, on an appeal to the Czar or some-
body, the Russian skipper won, and his
ship departed in ballast and much danmski.
No enemy critic can say that the hated
Australian army can't read and write. The
last inward English mail (most of it pencil-
scribbled in France) created a new record,
with 850,000 letters, besides newspapers and
registered articles. After all, it’s only the
proud result of compulsory education, which
the friends of “freedom” were violently kick-
ing back less than a generation ago. Every
honest, decent thing has ancient boot-marks
on it somewhere.
Although woman is suspect amongst the
army of pen-pushers, Miss Rose Smith has
been nominated by the craft to sit as assessor
with Justice Hodges in the Victorian State
Court of Industrial Appeals. She is not
the first of the long-haired sex to sit as
member of a wages board, but she will be
the first woman in A’ic. to act in a judicial
capacity.
They don’t treat a man as they find him
nowadays in Maoriland. One citizen who
tried to do it at Tauranga last week has to
pay £5 under the Act which forbids “shout-
ing.” It was the first penalty of the kind
since the war strategists in Parliament en-
listed Jimmy Woods.
A PLEASANT SUNDAY AFTERNOON IN THE
PARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I tells yev, feller-sitterzens, this ain’t a workers’
war!
It’s all got up by Capital! That’s wot it’s wanted
for!
Xow mind yer go
Arid vote fer ‘No!'
October Twenty-eight;
Australian workers won’t be Slaves! 1 tells yer
Wot’s that, mate?”
“We will be if ther Germans come.”
“Now, never mind ther Germans, chum —
Ther boys in Front will sec- ter them. 1 says: Con-
• script they weal/"!
••Thor blokes as tries ter make us do a thing we
doesn’t want,
I d wring their bloomin’ necks fer ’em and send
them ter the Front!
it’s you and me wot must be free—
The rest can go ter Hell!
Australian workers——Wotsay, mate?’
"They’ve got their rights as well.”
“Now, ’avc er bit er commonsense !
This war’s got up at our expense!
I says ther chap as ought ter fight’s I her chap wot’s
got ther Pelf!
"I says Australia’* done enough ! Look at ther chaps
wot’s gone!
Ain’t they Australia’s pick an’ pride? An’ look at
wot they’ve done!
If’s us as sent out them as went ter keep ther Foe
away !
'Oo’ll buy ther buttons if we go? Oo'll drink ther
rAVot-d'jer say ?”
“By votin' ‘No’ we’ll ’elp the ’Uns
Ther same as if we sent ’em g-uns!”
“Now, look ’ere, mate, you shut yer face! I’m
votin’ fer meself l”
PROSPECT, S.A.
C. H. SOUTER.
THE AMUSEMENT TAX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Kate has heard of the. intent
of an exacting Government
Amusement taxes to impose.
She wonders how they’ll gather those.
Her most perplexing problem this is
How will the wretches tax- oar kisses?
And 1 an explanation vamp —-
They may devise a duty stamp.
She smiles and cheerfullv insists,
“We all will be philatelists! - ’
But pouts again. “In time, no doubt,
Their duty will stamp kissing out.”
“Fear not,” I answer, “ ’neath the rose,
Where no intrusive taxman goes,
Still urgent youth and yielding beauty
Will kiss for love and not for duty!"
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


PECACO
¥
COLLARS
Are snow-white, grass bleached, per-
fectly made and perfectly laundered.
Each Collar goes through 40 oper-
ations and 10 inspections before
leaving the factory. Every one is
guaranteed.
Four-fold - - 6d.
Linen-faced - - 9d.
Superfine Linen-faced, 1/-
All Mercers Made in Australia
PELACO
THIS FORMULA REALLY MAKES
HAIR GROW.
Some time ago I read in a paper a formula
for a preparation which was claimed to
destroy the dandruff germ and to strongly
stimulate the hair-growth. In spite of the
fact that I had already tried many prepara-
tions without benefit, and my hair was thin
and falling out very fast, I decided to give
the formula a trial. Accordingly I got my
chemist to put up 3oz. of Bay Rum, loz. of
Lavona de Composee, and 5-dram of Menthol
Crystals, and applied it regularly every morn-
ing and night, rubbing carefully into the
scalp with the finger-tips. Much to my
delight and astonishment the intolerable
itching ceased with the first application, the
dandruff disappeared, the falling out of the
hair stopped completely, and by the time I
had used four bottles I had a finer, longer
and more luxuriant growth of hair than I
ever had before. I have since recommended
this formula to many of my friends with
equally wonderful results. I understand that
this formula can be prepared by all chemists
and druggists, and I strongly advise all who
have'not yet given it a trial to do so imme-
diately.-— I T.H.P. — Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS'
WINES
A Bulletin man went to buy a book :
The young man was dusting the Psalms and psy-
chological novels. “Good morning. Have you used
—I mean, have you a copy of ‘Sabotage’ ?” “The
Cabbage Yard,” he replied, meditatively flicking a
grain of sand from “The Sins of Susie.” “Let me
see—-‘Cab’ ” “No —S-a-b-o-t-a-g-e. The I.W.W.
yelp.” “Nothing like that here, sir; never heard
of it.” And the young man backed away as from
a snake. In the next shop the proprietor’s deputy
asked if his customer wanted to get him life. In
the third the attendant ran away. The fourth was
a pub. At the fifth the boss said he was as deaf
TRUE TILL DEATH.
S HE: “You and your conscientious objec-
tions! What would you do if you saw
the Germans carrying me off by force?”
HE: “My dear, I would still strictly follow
the dictates of conscience.”
as a post. In the sixth three respectable ladies
fainted when the youth in charge lifted up his voice
and bleated “ ‘Sabotage’! We do not deal in that
kind of literature.” The next was reputed a bit of
a rebel. “Sorry, old man,” he explained. “Try Squith.”
Squith said he thought he could manage it. But
he would only promise to deliver the goods under
cover of night. And that is what a man is driven
to in search of knowledge. It is easier to buy
elephants and baboons in Sydney now than to get
first-hand particulars of this new cult —and when
you do get them they read like Callan Park holding
a public meeting over a couple of prawns.
“Uloola” : A word in the ear of the fat-
heads who comfort themselves with the
thought that Germany is up against it in
the matter of supplies. Early in August,
when the big punch was being delivered,
we rushed some enemy dugouts. They were
80ft. to 40ft. deep and lighted with electri-
city. The captured mess tins had butter
and tins of brawn in them, there were loaves
of brown bread in the haversacks, all the
overcoats were new, and the clean under-
clothing that we got made us inclined to
forgive Fritz his sins.
* * *
Jack Sommers meets the Quality:—
I’ve just come back from a visit to the Idle Rich
—a huge country house, a disgracefully opulent
hostess, clock golf and Aunt Sally on the lawn.
Other items were brass-buttoned flunkeys carrying
trays and gaping Tommies wondering whether to
call ’em Sir. We had tea in the baronial halls, sur-
rounded by freak clocks, imitation Murillos and
beautiful tapestries—“like a bloomin’ museum,” as
Atkins justly remarked.
I started to talk to break the awed silence while
the Tommies rolled their eyes appreciatively and
replied in cake-muffled voices. The hostess said it
was sweet of me to come all the long way from
Australia to fight. I played goff and won a jar
of barley sugar. I’m going to be photographed
leaning on it. I threw sticks at Aunt Sally and
said I vastly missed my boomerang. There was an
immense garden and two platoons of gardeners, but
the ladies regretfully explained that the war had
set the garden back, “Oh, shockingly.” We expressed
our regrets and said we’d get the war over as soon
as possible.
The hostess opined that it (the war) was the
last of a natural series of events recurring at set
periods, and added that the peacocks roosted high
at night. 1 played with a Pekinese spaniel and
smiled. Afterwards we motored through squalid
streets and nearly ran over ragged little kids who
cried, “Hooray!” Women stood at the doors, and
little tickets in the windows with red and black
crosses advertised how many of the family had
enlisted or were dead. Prayers, after capturing a
canary that had escaped to the delights of the
garden, and so virtuously to bed. God save the
King !
* * * *
“E.J.C.”: The joke has all the camp
laughing. One day 30-odd men got their
marching orders for the following morning.
It was pretty short notice, so after serving
out their accoutrements, etc., the O.G.
promised them the afternoon “off” to say
their good-byes. Just at midday, however,
an order came from Headquarters that the
District Commandant would inspect the men
at 8.30 p.m. This put a damper on things.
Then heads got together and mates were
called in to help. In the afternoon when the
squad fell in for inspection the O.C. nearly
dropped dead when lie saw 33 men who are
not likely to be leaving for months lined up
in service gear. Knowing that if the truth
were revealed it meant something nasty the
O.C. was oyster, and a dignified Commandant
solemnly warned the reeruities of the dangers
and temptations on the other side of the
water, and besought them to keep up the
reputation of Australia, as he felt sure they
would. Then 33 men winked unanimously
and went back to camp to peel off their ser-
vice gear and wait for their pals to come
back after having their last beer.
* * * *
The anti-conscriptionists have had a busy
week explaining that they have nothing at
all to do with the I.W.W. They didn’t men-
tion that a fortnight ago. They only discov-
ered it when evidence was produced
in Sydney connecting members of the
I.W.W. with the recent fierce outbreak
of incendiarism, which threw hundreds
of men out of work and imperilled
the jobs of thousands more. But anti-
conscription can’t shake off its friends like
that. It is the tool of the 1.W.W.,
just as the I.W.W. itself is the tool
of the German concentration camp. The
mysterious "Long Franz,” one of the escapees
from Holdsworthy, was in the thick of the
pleasant little surprise which the police have
been unfolding in the court in Sydney. He
was the honored guest of the I.W.W. men
who are now in safe keeping; for his sake,
according to one witness, one leader at least
of the I.W.W. was prepared to commit
murder. “Long Franz” has earned his Iron
Cross, at any rate. But how he must chuckle
as he sees the Australian worker (whom he
loves so much that he was prepared to burn
him out of a job) dancing to a German tune,
and voting “No” in the name of Australian
patriotism !
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
* * * *
“E.T.”: Shades of W. S. Gilbert! A
soldier outward-bound for the Front in Aug-
ust had six hours’ leave at Fremantle. While
returning to the transport after posting a
letter to his mother he was run down
and killed on the railway. Last week the
mother of the deceased received an official
letter advising her that the payment of the
allotment money “had been cancelled on
and from Oct. 6 on account of the soldier
failing to re-embark at Fremantle!”
ON THE LAST LAP.
FATHER: “I don’t like your way of sitting on a young man’s knee. This is not the first
you’ve treated in that way.”
DAUGHTER: “Oh, but this one’s going to marry me. Remember what King George said
to the army: ‘It’s the last lap that wins.’”
That splendid worker for the wounded
Billjim in England, Alice Grant Rosman,
writes from London :
My note in The Bulletin last November, asking
for old copies of Tiie Bulletin to be sent for
wounded Australians, brought me a great response. We
had hundreds every mail for nearly six months, and
you may be certain they were never wasted. Every-
one took a vivid interest in the “pink post,” which
was sent all over Great Britain. As for the letters
GENESIS—OR REVELATTONS?
“But if Tom says he didn’t promise to marry
Mabel and isn’t going to, that’s an end
of it, isn’t it?”
“Well, Mabel says it is only the beginning."
they brought us—well, it rather made one feel there
was nothing really worth while for any Australian
woman to do except spend her days posting Bulle-
tins to her brothers. Now many of these boys
are back in hospital for a second time —wounded at
Pozieres. They are writing daily for papers and, as
fate will have it, the supply has gradually fallen
off, just when we have more than 20,000 in the
hospital lists. Would you kindly put in a word or
two for me, for I’m sure the people at home will
send them when they hear how tremendously they
are appreciated? It may interest you and the boys to
know that copies have been coming regularly not
only from all over Australia, but from Maoriland,
Fiji, San Francisco and Hongkong, and one has been
posted regularly from somewhere in the remotest
south of South America. Perhaps you would let me
say “Thanks,” too, to all these people; for myself
I have been ten thousand times repaid by the grati-
tude of the sick (and some of them homesick)
boys. Your old -Bulletins, then, please—l don’t
care how many of them. They shall all be well
used. Address British Australasian, 115 High
Holborn, London S.W.
“0.K.” : The paragraph re “The Case of
John Verran v. Germans, in the South Aus-
tralian Assembly” (B. 5/10/T6), deepens
my conviction that all the alien-blooded citi-
zens of the Commonwealth should be offici-
ally classified in the districts where they
abide. Many Germans and Austrians, born
here or abroad, are “enemy aliens.” Many
others are not. The truth about all these
people is quite easily procurable. Even in
crowded Melbourne, where treacherous and
disloyal sentiment is not placed so easily as
in a little country township, any intelligent
policeman could collect convincing evidence
as to which Germans celebrated the sinking
of the Lusitania and which of them didn’t.
There are Huns who got drunk in honor of
the Sinn Fein rebellion, and Teutons who
had no sympathy with it. No occasion to
cry “Let them lie crucified!” Let ’em be
classified.
-* * * *
“Transport”: The announcement that in
future Australian notes will be worth their
face value in Colombo, Durban, Capetown,
Plymouth and London is very welcome to
troops and men employed on transport duty;
also, it is none too premature. Hitherto, in
London, Cook’s gave 15s. for every pound’s
worth of Australian silver, and in other parts
of England silver bearing the kangaroo and
emu w_as not negotiable. In Colombo a per-
son presenting an Australian fl note would
invariably receive 19s. Gd. in English silver;
and then for every 2s. of this English money
tendered 80 cents were deducted as exchange.
The net loss therefore was about 9f times 30
cents plus Gd. (paid in first instance) =4s. 4d.
Seeing that troops and transport crews re-
ceive their allotment in Australian paper
money, the loss has been a serious one. The
Government asks the public to hapd over all
gold to the banks; but it was two years
before it took steps to prevent soldiers and
sailors on transports from being victim-
ised through obeying that instruction.
DREAD OF CHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hate to shift, I hate to leave;
At ev’ry parting I must grieve;
For spectres I would like to stun
Remark, “Another period done!
Another corner turned ! My friend,
We’re one step nearer to The End ! ’
And if the Past you try to taste
By turning back
Upon your track,
You’ll find your time has gone to waste!
For nothing’s ever quite the same
In this tremendous living game;
No day is like the next—-no hour
Can e’er be matched. The loveliest fiow’r
In any garden finds its mate ;
But though the splendid fact you hate,
You cannot find to-morrow’s twin.
So ev’ry year Spring ushers in
Is full of strangeness. That is why
Most people do not wish to die.
Take Life just as it conies ! Be gay
And let Time feed you day by day.
Don’t stare behind or peep before
Or see a sword behind the door.
Don’t view all moves with consternation,
Or try to do Life’s punctuation.
But slap yourself upon the chest
And tell yourself to-day’s the best
Damned day you ever saw ! Don’t sorrow —-
And look for Something Great to-morrow!
’Tis good advice ! You saw me bake it !. .. .
/ wish to Gocl that I could take it!
N.S.w.
IRISH.


TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
Returned disabled soldiers.
Single Men with Thorough Farm
Training who are disabled in upper body
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Ovex-seers in Solomon Islands by writ-
ing to ISLAND INSPECTOR,
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney.
If you’re particular about what you drink make
sure you get Thorne’s Whisky—in the black square
bottle. It’s the spirit that particular men particu-
larly like. Its subtle, delicate flavor —invariably
mellow, smooth and satisfying—makes it very accept-
able to a discriminating man. The perfect quality
has been maintained for over 80 years.
Try THORNE'S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[1
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the \ustralian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon
h. la carte luncheon, from
Table d’hote dinner
Dining-room Open to Non-residents
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
2/6
1/6
3/6
After a careful trial Jethro Brown has
resigned the Presidency of the Industrial
Court in South Aus. As he had obtained a
mere leave-of-absence from his duties as
Professor of Law at Adelaide University, he
must have contemplated a possible retreat.
He followed Judge Buchanan, the original
President, who was put definitely on
the Supreme Court Bench last January. It
was a popular appointment, chiefly because
of his fine judicial mind and deep knowledge
of economics, though the profession was
inclined to think that his lack of experi-
ence in court practice would tell against
him. As it turned out, the work proved
to be too heavy for him —perhaps for
any one man. Brown has been work-
ing 10 hours a day, seven days a week ;
and the new business of adjusting hotel-
rents on the early-closing Act is still
untouched. In view of this a Bill
was run through the S.A. Assembly
giving the President the status and
powers of a Supreme Court Judge,
and allowing him the help of another
Judge when urgently required. But the
Leg. Council refused him the status, and
offered him a stipendiary magistrate as
assistant. So he threw in his resignation.
* * * *
“Boyd Cable”: In the argument on the
“man-stopping” value of various bullets (B.
S/6/’l6) an important factor appears to
have been overlooked—the variety of man to
be stopped. It may be true that the high-
velocity nickelled bullet has little stopping
power, but it has quite sufficient to do its job
against the ordinary civilised nations’ fight-
ing men. I’ve seen a good, stout, husky
specimen dropped as if pole-axed by a clean
bullet wound through the arm, and I’ve seen
hundreds of men wending their way back
from the front line casualtied by bullet
wounds that would certainly not have pre-
vented their doing another strenuous half-
hour’s scrapping. But modern fighters know
top much about the results of apparently
trivial wounds, and don’t want to waste time
in getting an injury dressed and some anti-
NOT IN THE AGREEMENT.
"You said you would come to me if Hell
yawned between us.”
“Oh, yes, but—you know, lust night it rained
like billy-oh.”
tetanus mixture pumped into them. So they
go down to a wound that a Soudanese black
would just ignore. On the other hand I’ve
seen a Maoriland red deer go off gaily at
about 60m.p.h. with a high-velocity hole
drilled through and through his vitals, and
it is a matter of history that our troops have
found even the smashing Martini-Henry .45
calibre leaden pill insufficient to full-stop an
Afghan ghazi who was wading into business
behind a large-sized tulwar. Therefore my own
opinion is that for savages, deer, big game
and other animals not sufficiently educated
to know when they are casualtied, the small,
high-velocity bullet is no good. But for white
troops or even an untamed burglar it will
do the trick.
“Tekelo”: There has been a revival of
head-hunting in the Solomons. In particular
Lilliboi and his crowd
of Choiseul bushman
have been causing un-
pleasantness. T h e
chief reckons that he
is the “Guv’ment,”
and he has been send-
ing very rude Notes
to the District Officer
inviting him to come
over and lose his
scalp. The correspond-
ence was interrupted
by the Vella natives
organising an offensive
against their ancient
foes. Four cutters,
containing about 100
savages, sailed from
Lambu Lambu to
strafe the Choiseul
upstart. Lilliboi’s vil-
lages lay some distance
inland, and the
enemy’s plan was to
surround them and
wipe out the men,
women and kids in
the dawn. But some-
body met the heroes
after they had been
two days on the lonely
track, and his tales of
Lilliboi’s ferocity de-
cided them to do
without the' Choiseul
heads for the present.
They fell back on the
coast, and, taking a
fair wind, dug them-
selves in bemnd the
horizon. Now Lilli-
boi makes more insult-
ing remarks than ever
to all the world.
A tale of people who have more money
than is good for them was unfolded to Jus-
tice Hood in Melbourne lately, when Mrs.
Ellen Claye, of South Yarra, called upon
Mrs. Agnes J. B. Falconer to deliver up and
hand over to her the body of her son, Samuel
John Claye, an “infant” aged 20 years 11
months and 29 days. The
narrative of Mrs. Falconer
was that, one evening in
July, ’l5, Samuel bor-
rowed 2s. from his mother,
and married Mrs. Fal-
coner’s sister, aged 20.
Two months later he had
transferred his affections
to Mrs. Falconer herself,
she being a grass widow
aged 23 or so. After that
the pair dwelt at many
boarding-houses, some-
times together, sometimes
apart. A month back the
two : sisters and Claye were
housekeeping at Elstern-
wick, the real wife acting
as chaperon; but three
weeks ago, “after a slight
argument,” she left for
parts unknown. Claye
also disappeared when the
writ was served, and his
lady assured his Honor
that she hadn’t the least
idea where he was either.
The unusualness of the
tale wasn’t lessened by the
fact that, while Claye
“comes into a large sum
of money” when he is 21,
his wife has £14,000 and
Mrs. Falconer an income
of £7OO a year. Justice
Hood declined to swallow
a lot of th,e yarn, but he
couldn’t get over the mar-
riage certificate, which gave the wife
a better claim than the mother to the
person of Sammy Claye, so he merely invited
Mrs. Falconer to pay her own costs and drew
the law’s attention to certain irregularities
in the marriage certificate.
* * * *
“Snell”: Tentover’s Kate had mysteri-
ously disappeared. She had lost two young
men* at the war, and a third had had a
wing amputated. Kate was discouraged;
and now she was absent in circumstances
provocative of the greatest alarm. Her
mother, searching for a clue, discovered a
note under the butter-dish curtly informing
the family that she was “full up,” and her
body would be found in the river below the
ironstone bar. There was a rush for the
river, and Kate was found sitting on a
semi-submerged log, thinking it over. She
was asked to go home. She refused—she
was going to drown herself, and people
ought to mind their own business. Very
HEAVEN UP-TO-DATE.
PHILANTHROPIC FLIER: “Why so melan-
choly, dear soul?”
RECENT COCKY: “No cows here!”
stubbornly she resisted all arguments, till
her sobbing sister Sarah whispered some-
thing in her ear. Then she wavered, arose
and went home. I heard later what sister
Sarah said. It was: “Remember, dear,
you haven’t ever wore your new red ’at
yet.”
How Billjim chases Johnny Turk
It was a 40-mile ride, and from 7 a.m. that day till 8
p.m. we had nothing but a couple of biscuits which
we ate as we rode along. After tea we again mounted
and travelled all that night. At daybreak we halted
and had a snack, and again started off, continuing all
day except for one or two short spells for the horses.
We didn’t travel that night, but slept—the first rest
after two days and a night in the saddle. It’s just
as well a fellow has seven skins. . I still had one
to go. My only fear that night was that the Turks
would shell us and disturb my sleep. But they
showed their consideration. At daylight we started
again, riding still farther out into what I thought
might be Asia Minor, though I was too uninterested
to think much, i was not an exception either. We
had had two or three days of 124 degrees in the
shade, and there was no shade. No wonder we are
all anxious to get out of Egypt. Every day the tem-
perature is 100 degrees or more, and we have to work
in it. And there’s lots of work in connection with
Light Horse on Active Service.
All our supplies have to be carted about from place
to place, both for the horses and ourselves, and a
hundred small jobs are done in the scorching sun
and sand. To make things worse there is no com-
fortable rest to look forward to when it's over. Just
throw yourself down in the dirty sand of the tent
and let the flies chew your ears off. Flies aren't the
only things either.
At 3 o’clock next morning we started off again.
We rode for about six or eight miles, and then
camped at a place called Romani. There is nothing
to distinguish Romani from any other piece of sand,
no way of knowing its boundaries, where it begins or
where it ends. We were told its name was. Romani,
and we let it go at that.
Being in enemy country and close upon the Turks
Active Service is very active. A chap can hardly
visit a friend in an adjacent tent without carrying
rifle and ammunition, full water-bottle and 24 hours’
iron rations with him. “Iron rations” are bully beef
and biscuits. Every morning it’s stand to arms from
3.30 till 4.30, and then commence the daily routine.
One day last week we came up with the Turkish
outposts, and I never laughed more in all my life.
We rode out of camp at midday, rode all that after-
noon and all that night, only stopping once or twice
to give the horses five minutes’ blow. Just as
day was breaking we sighted Turks ahead. Terrific
excitement, of course. The Turks had seen us, and
were getting away over the hills as fast as they
could. Most of them had mounted their camels, but
one or two were too frightened to waste the second
that it would take to board, and so were scampering
away on foot. Of course, when we saw the possi-
bility of their getting away from us (camels, by the
way', are faster than horses) it was the end of every-
thing. We ripped the spurs into the horses’ sides,
and then, remembering that we could not go without
the command of the officer, pulled them up with
sufficient suddenness to stop their hearts beating.
Well, we waited for three or four seconds, which
really seemed like three or four hours, and our officer
did not give an order; so, like Australians, we took
the business into our own hands. Some went to the
left, others dashed off to the right, and my section,
four men, made one terrific plunge and bolted into a
gully directly ahead of us, into which we had seen
a half-dozen Turks disappear a minute before.
Just as we rounded a bend we came upon a Turk
who had been a bit slower than his mates in getting
away. He was running as hard as he could, and
dragging a camel along behind. As it happened, 1
was the first to grab him, when to my great surprise
he threw his arms round my neck and kissed me.
Yes, well and truly kissed me, and he had got in a
good couple of dozen, too, before I had sufficiently
recovered from the shock to give him the “don’t
argue.” Evidently thinking I was going to shoot him
then and there, he frightened the very dickens out of
the lad standing nearest him by making one terrific
bound straight at him and kissing his hands. After
some minutes’ careful manoeuvring we managed to
surround “Jacko” and got him to understand we had
no intention of killing him jiist then. After that,
having disarmed him, we led both him and the camel
back to the colonel, to whom he was duly presented
in the name of the King.
“Billy Blue” : One of the Sydney morning
history-mixers lately had an article on
the “Oldest House in Australia,” and
awarded the long-service medal to Vaucluse,
the harbor-side home of Wentworth. The
honor really belongs to the house built by
John McArthur. McArthur arrived in Aus-
tralia in the ship Scarborough on June 28,
1790, and on February 12, 1793, he received
a grant of 100 acres near where the Rosehill
racecourse is to-day. His wife, writing on
August 22, 1794, starts a letter thus: —
I write you now from our own house, a very excel- '
lent brick building 68 feet in length and 18 feet
wide.
The old home still stands, and ought to be
resumed and preserved if only for the con-
fusion of quick-lunch historians.
* * * *
Pearce, Minister for Defence, when he
was explaining the other night why the
finger-prints of recruits are now being
taken, said that at least 2000 men had got
away with the expeditionary forces by im-
personating others. The fraud was easy to
work. Smith, who wanted to get through,
but was either over the age or under the
standards, got Jones, who didn’t want to go
to war, to represent him at the medical
examination. Jones received a certificate,
but Smith went into camp. However, only
300 of these 2000 were returned from Egypt
as unfit, and some of the others had scored
very well in the fighting. You can never
judge a cigar by the picture on the box.
FISHERS ALL.
Mrs. G. Dwyer, of Toxteth-road, was granted the
N.S.W. Amateur Fishermen’s Association’s certificate
for a skilful feat in catching a 13Ib. jewfish on a
No. 16 silk-twist at Port Hacking.
MOLLY: “Yes, but, Dolly is smarter than
that. With one little thread of golden
hair she landed a Jewy that weighs
thousands.”
The reflections of “Flossie Fluffytop” :
Love is a game and kisses the pool.
Love is a game. If the maid know each rule,
With a handful of trumps she will lose, pretty fool.
For Love is a game where the man scoops the pool.
TRANSPORTS leaving.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 cannot work ! The ftirewell whistles blowing
Make a mad tumult ’neath the list’ning sky !
While I live here some better men are going
Out to far fields of agony to die.
I cannot work! The office seems to stifle
When whistles blow! With hope and courage high
They go to live where living is no trifle,
While I stay here —while I stay here to die!
x.s.tv.
SECOND FLOOR.


[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
THUMBS DOWN!


[DAVID LOW, BULLETIN Branch Office, Melbourne.]
WARMING THEIR FEET.


sd
Chaving
<2)TICK
>
For an
Ideal Shave
MADE. IN AUSTRALIA
*" V '>l Va- >?lr~
££
O '
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&
WMITTY
MAKERj;
SH
llffi
j&l^i^ltffjmSm^aSSS£
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
6ILBE Y’S
PRY CIH
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts § Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ashmead Bartlett was on the liner which
carried ex-Native Minister Jimmy Carroll
(M.L.) to London, and at a concert aboard
gave a burlesque of “Timi” speaking to the
Maoris on the war. It was a clever if merci-
less burlesque, and made everybody feel
delightfully uncomfortable. Carroll, who
was chairman, on rising to thank the enter-
tainers, provided a little show of his own. It
was a fine parody of Bartlett lecturing on
the Gallipoli campaign. The dropped “g” was
a gladsome feature, and the torture wound
up with the characteristic: “I, myself, per-
sonally saw these things—with my own eyes
—through my field-glasses.” The audience
that night rapped its marrow bones on the
flooring of its several cabins and thanked a
generous Providence that it had been spared
to make the voyage.
WILLIE WATT, M.H.R.
Passed out last week, in Queensland,
Charlton Kable, who was born in Bathurst
in 3831. lie was a grandson of Henry
Kable, who came with Governor Phillip in
the First Fleet. Henry held several offices
under our earliest Governors, and then was
a partner in the firm of Lord, Underwood
and Kable; he had a taste of “fine and gaol”
from Governor Bligh, who gaoled the firm
for writing him an "impertinent letter.” Kable
settled later at Windsor, and brewed beer. His
son William migrated to Bathurst, and kept
one of the earliest inns. Grandson Charl-
ton, having tried the Turon for gold and
failed, struck .out for Moreton Bay, and be-
came a pastoralist.
Died at Bega (N.S.W.), W. J. Lane, who
had served the goddess Cow for over half a
century, and owned a big stretch of South
Coast country adjoining the Lucas Tooth
property at Kameruka. Lane came from the
North of Ireland in the 50’s of last century
with the brothers Robert and Henry Ritchie,
whose sister he married ; and the trio got the
pick of the district. One of his brothers was
a brigadier-general in India, and another
was the “father of the Irish Bar” in Dublin.
When the flood came down at Murchison
(Vic.) Mrs. J. II. Campbell, the wife of a
local farmer, went out alone to save some
sheep. She found the only way she
could get to them was by swimming;
so she swam. The current swept her
down, but she got a rest on a culvert
and then pushed on again. Her hands
were badly cut against barb-wire fences;
but she got the sheep out.
Moles worth Greene, one of the oldest
squatters in Australia, died last week, aged
SJ. lie was son of Captain W. Pomeroy
Greene, R.N., who came to Port Phillip in
the early 40’s in a ship chartered by him-
self, with his family, live stock, servants
(male and female), and all the necessaries for
the establishment of an elaborate home-
stead. He settled at Woodlands, 14 miles
from Melbourne. Molesworth, this pioneer’s
son, married in 1852 Emma Browne, a
daughter of Captain J. Sylvester Browne.
The wife of the late Chief Justice Darley
was also a daughter, and Rolf Boldrewood
IF. A. Browne) was a son. A sister of
Molesworth Greene, still living in London,
is widow of the late Chief Justice Stawell,
of "Victoria; and the late G. H. Greene,
M.L.C., of landra (N.S.W.), was a brother.
In the mid ’4o’s an amateur steeplechase
was run at Woodlands, the competitors be-
ing friends of the Greene family. W. F.
Stawell, afterwards Chief Justice, rode the
winner. Rolf Boldrewood had a mount. So
had Molesworth Greene and a brother —not
the landra man; he was too young. Inci-
dentally, through the Browne influence,
“Moley” Green became interested in mining
and got on to one very good thing—the
Broken Hill South, of which he was chair-
man.
William M. Hughes and his clothes now
turn the scale at 7st. 21b.
Ex-Police Inspector Richard Saunders,
who has just passed out at Adelaide, aged
85, was with Major Warburton’s expedition
that explored the country west of Port
Augusta half a century ago.
The big, close-cropped, muscular Sydney
barrister, Dr. Brissenden, who went away
as a lance-corporal, is a sergeant now. But
he hasn’t been poking Fritz in the liver, as
he hoped to do. Somewhere in Europe they
have had him at a base depot supplying
legal opinions at 10 bob a day, or whatever
corporals get. Which is pretty cheap law
and (considering all things) a pretty bad
joke.
Laurence Grayson, just dead in Adelaide,
was a democrat of the old Kingstonian
school, and no friend of the party system.
When he headed the poll in ISS7 in
Kingston’s own West Adelaide district, he
looked like having a long Parliamentary
innings; but in 1593, after he had had one
taste of office as Public Works Minister in
a Downer Government, split voting pushed
him out, and he gave up the game for good.
In the S.A. Railway workshops he had
helped to get the eight-hours day, but from
1881 he was either manager or director of
a big engineering co., and with later Labor
developments he was out of sympathy. A
solid man always, he was at one time Pre-
sident of the Chamber of Manufactures, on
the Council of the School of Mines from the
beginning, and the senior member of the
Public Library Board. He was a Lanca-
shire man by birth, but a good Australian
of nearly 60 years’ standing—and 78 when
the end came.
The coming of the Torrens Act for sim-
plifying dealings with land has been re-
called in Adelaide by the death of E. J.
Heath, at 86. As registrar of deeds he
knew all about the complicated system of
conveyancing inherited from England till
Torrens cut the knot and made work in the
Lands Titles Office “like living in anew
earth.” It is one of the two big though
simple things that South Aus. has given to
the world, the “cross in the square” voting
system being the other. Other States that
followed suit tend to commemorate the name
of Torrens, but S.A. calls its deeds tersely
“R.P.A. title.”
“Vic”: Georgina Sweet, Australia’s first
woman Professor, was known in student
days as the Quadrupornithologiste, because
of her intense devotion to the study of ani-
mal life. She has a capital illustrated lec-
ture on “How the Animals Came to Aus-
tralia.” Dad, very well-to-do, was formerly
oracle of the Primitive
Methodists in Vic-,
toria. But for his
support, and that of
Bible Christian Chief
Justice Way of Adel-
aide, I doubt whether
Methodist Union could
h a v e been accom-
plished in this genera-
tion.
BRENNAN, M.H.R.
Jim Wal'd ley, president of the Bakers’
Union of Melbourne, who claims that he will
be 101 on October 20, and has a certain
amount of evidence to show for it, “shouted’’
himself a holiday jaunt to Sydney for this
year’s Eight Hours’ celebration.
Passed out at New Farm (Q.), G. C.
Willcocks, aged 59. As contractor, Willcocks
had a hand in most of the big Queensland
jobs of recent years, including the Cloncurry
and Gym pie railways, the Rockhampton
bridge, and the harbor works at Port Alma;
and on the Sydney side he had shifted
almost an equal amount of muck. Outside
his contracting he was best known as a
plucky mining speculator who had dropped
money in most parts of Australia. A son,
now at the war, is medical superintendent of
Sydney Hospital, and another son is on the
land in Queensland.
Adana Hope, one of Melbourne’s oldest
cricketing identities, passed out last week.
He played for Victoria in the first inter-
colonial match in Sydney, and was an
umpire when Ivo Bligh’s English team
played Victoria. His late wife, by the way,
was a relative of the frirl whom Ivo Bligh
married. Old-man Hope, a chemist at
Albert Park, begat a bunch of bright daugh-
ters. The eldest was about the first qualified
woman chemist in Victoria, and a younger
daughter is Rita, the pianist.
Memories of the famous Speight v. Age
lawsuit were revived the other day by news
of the death of Allison Smith in England.
Smith was the man from Maoriland who
managed the locomotive dept, of the Rail-
ways under Speight’s extravagant rbgime.
Those w T ere the roaring Boom times, and the
evidence in the libel case dealt largely with
Allison Smith’s habit of scrapping ' costly
rolling-stock on the least suspicion of old-
age. or infirmity. It was the joke of the
period. A panto, comedian, engaged in
smashing things, would announce that he
was Allison Smith on the job.
Nobody could moralise more interestingly
on Japan’s connection with the present war
than Lord Redesdale, who died lately. He
was Mr. Mitford of the diplomatic service
half a century ago, one of its best brains,
and afterwards author of “Tales of Old
Japan.” He was there when .the Western
Powers forced their acquaintance upon the
Mikado’s kingdom, and was present at
the last official hara-kiri performed in expi-
ation of an attack on foreign subjects. And
that was 45 years ago.
Brigadier-General Chayton, who was re-
cently decorated with the Servian order of
t!ie White Eagle, is another Maorilander to
make a name for himself at warfare. In
1892 he was appointed captain of the Marl-
borough Mounted Rifles: during the differ-
ence of opinion between John Bull and Jan
Boer he was in charge of M.L.’s third con-
tingent. For a tii e he was assistant-
adjutant-general in M.L. and was later
detached for instruction in England.
Lieut. Henare Koliere, lately killed, was
a grandson of that Major Morgan Kohere
who was a hot pepper-box of the Ngati-
porou tribe. Morgan was one of the fight-
ing pals of the distinguished Ropata.
Young Kohere (about 87) was one of the
giants that showed London, on the occasion
of Edward Vll.’s Coronation, what ‘the
Maori was like at his best. Haere ra: liaere
hi to Tcainga!
Phil Fargher, who crossed the mound for
the last time recently, was one of the most
persistent disciples of rifle-shooting in Aus-
tralia. Thirty years ago he joined the
militia at Bendigo, and among the prizes
he won afterwards were the Queen's at
Williamstown (Vic.) in ’O2; Vic. It.A. gold
medal and aggregate in ’O3; and N.S.W.
chanfpionship in ’OO. Fargher represented
Australia twice at Bisley (Eng.), and on
one trip brought the St. George Badge back.
As secretary of V.R.A. in the last, 10 years
of his life lie was a hard-working enthu-
siast who rolled up sleeves and did tilings.
“Homo’s” tale of a tough ’un :—•
Thirty years go, at the Glenrowan (Vic.) level
crossing, an unannounced train made sausage-meat of
a mob of passing Cattle and also of the horse the
ctrover (Michael Mohan) was riding. What was re-
garded as the drover’s mangled corpse was fished out
of the carnage and carried into the pub that had
been re-erected on the site of the Kelly Gang’s last
Stand. There, was no funeral, but the leading sur-
geons of the day readily testified that Mohan would
be'a hopeless cripple for the rest of his life. So he
obtained some £2OOO compensation from the De-
partment. During the recent floods this persistent
Australian (now over 70, and a slight contraction of
one leg the only trace of his accident) whs- crossing
the Ovens at night, after delivering cattle at Ever-
ton, and floundered into about Bft. of swift current.
Wild roo-ees of distress from the murky waters a chain
or so down-stream inspired a local sawmill hand to
swim in with a rope, and the wrecked drover was
detached from a friendly snag and hauled ashore.
The horse was found next morning standing in about
2ft. of water, and Michael patted his neck and
climbed back into the saddle to resume business.
Never say die!
“Edson” : The - most discussed pictures in
the Australian (Melb.) Art Association’s
fourth anuual gathering are the six sam-
ples from the brush (if it isn’t a broom) of
that French-Australian of Caledonian ex-
traction, Max Meldrum. It is the most
courageous stuff seen in Melbourne for
years—courageous because it shouts defi-
ance from the canvas. Meldrum is person-
ally a truculent little man ; he is so pugi
listic a painter that the great wonder is he
is not in the French trenches, swiping Hans
in the eye with a full brush as broad as a
bill-sticker’s. His portraits are put down
with swathes of paint an inch wide. They
are most dexterous, and really are portraits
when you contrive to see the picture in
defiance of the paint. In the one sitter I
know emphasis of personality is secured
with more than a touch of caricature. This
artist does not paint his subject; he hits
him off, and hits him hard. “Smax” Mel-
drum should be the signature.
ALMOST FATAL.
CUSTOMER: “That dress you sent me yester-
day teds a perfect disgrace!”
SHOPWALKER: “W hy, Madam, wasn't it a
good fit?”
CUSTOMER: “Fit? It was an apoplectic
stroke!”
William Langdon, the Labor Mayor of
Fitzroy (Vic.), who recently eschewed the
rabbit-skins of office and elected to keep
the council in order without the aid of
cocked hat or dog-collar, has declared him-
self in favor of conscription and enlisted —
and so far the local branch of the P.L.C.
hasn’t bumped William out on his neck for
being a free-speaker and a patriot.' Lang-
don describes himself in his enlistment
papers as a “construction engineer,” and he
is leaving a big business behind him. Mrs.
Bill reckons she can run the show until
William gets back.
THE WAIL OF A TRANSPORTING DRIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rations came in late that night, the limbers went
astray,
And out across the darkness I heard a brother pray
Such prayers as bullock-punchers use when mountain
roads are steep,
Or drivers when the S.A. carts are buried axle deep.
The rain was coming down on us in one unending
stream,
And God had put the devil in the newly-broken team ;
Each time a night-bird hooted, each time a shadow
lay
Aeros3 the thing they called a road, the mules would
break away.
“Lift up, lift up, you blighter ! God strafe that Ger-
man flare!”
(What blasted mule could stand the strain of shrapnel
in his hair?)
“Stand up, you blanky nigger, that cloud is only
smoke!”
“Whoa, boy! Look up ! Oh, hell and earth! The
blanky trace is broke.”
My stomach’s grinding out a plaint for food to put
inside;
I'm frozen to the very bones, and wetted to the hide ;
Sy mind has lost its bearings ; but one thing’s stick-
ing through—•
v transport driver wants to swap his blanky job
with you.
SOMEWHERE.
H. RUSSELL BRUFORD.


f
sdfs
df
Isnjmoutc
•QQI3AVH
-iwrj3d| # .
Improving relations with France.
Ah, Out, Ouif Ze Misture Haddock Speciale. Splendide! We it
like Well. Ze Australians, they all it smoke.
Three Strengths—Mild, Medium, Full.
In 2 o z. Airtight Tins.
PATON 7743
THE pjp|7 OF PEACE AND QUALITY
400
LM N
sd
p*f pipe Quara^d
*SSETT»
■B
HH


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Eald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps. &c. Send for Catalogue.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON -3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:— *
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
At Present Prices ADAMAX ROOFING is Much Cheaper than Galvanised Iron.
Figure out the Saving in first cost and in freight, yet Adam ax Roofing will outlast
galvanised iron because: —
ADAMAX ROOFING is not affected by climatic changes, and will not rust or pinhole from
exposure to rain, acids, gases, etc.
ADAMAX ROOFING will not rot —it contains no Tar, Resin or Fish Oil.
ADAMAX ROOFING is specially recommended for use on either flat or sloping roofs.
$ WILLIAM ADAMS 8 CO. LTD,, 175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Savings Bank of South Australia,
which isn’t the State Bank of S. Aus.,
though it ought to be part of it:—
Interest to Written Re-
June, Profits. Depositors. Off. serves.
1905. . £147,408 3.1 p.c. =£137,000 £6879 £167,109
1906.. 153,800 31 „ „ 144,277 7705 168,927
1907.. 1(>4,957 3 i „,, 147,157 3640 183,087
1908.. 184.312 31 „ „ 163,429 8811 195,159
1909.. 198.589 3] 178,044 8952 206,752
1910.. 216.120 3] ~ ~ 191,588 9336 221,948
1911.. 234,573 3.! „., 222.155 9780 224,586
1912.. 256,632 U „„ 244,287 1601 235,330
1913.. 281,489 3,1 ~ ~ 263.969 2308 250,542
1914.. 312.955 31 „ „ 283,321 6695 273,481
1915.. 327,798 3f* ~ 313.057 3746 284,476
1916.. 328,764 3:p„ „ 312,149 3571 297,520
*On amounts under £350.
If you looked at the figures of this bank
and knew nothing of what had been going
on in the world, you would judge that this
little bit of it at any rate had been enjoying
great prosperity. Not only were the profits
larger, but deposits were larger—everything,
in fact, was larger except withdrawals.
Deposits, which shrank a little in 1915
owing mainly to the awful season S. Aus-
tralia had, have bounded along again :
1907 ..£5,304,704 |> 1912 ..£8,223,260
1908 . . 5,803,301 | 1913 . . 8,608,478
1909 . . 6,328,870 ! 1914 . . 9,018,837
1910 .. 0,771,150 i 1915 .. 9,017,061
1911 .. 7,411,710 I 1916 .. 9,265,705
It only means, of course, that people are
hanking their own lOU's. We have bor-
rowed millions during the last couple of
years, and we have put the proceeds of the
borrowings into the bank. That’s all this
splendid increase means; and it will be
madness for people to he misled by it. What
will happen by and bye is not so clear. To
simplify the position think of a small island
with a hundred people on it. One village
starts fighting with another. Each wants
food and ammunition for the fighting men.
Instead of making a levy of food and ammu-
nition, which would be the direct way, the
village issues lOU’s, gets money in return,
and pays with the money. The fighting
over, the lOU’s have to be met. The ques-
tion is, Is that going to cause distress? The
village has given the lOU’s to its own more
affluent inhabitants. Now it has to get
money from its own inhabitants to pay its
own inhabitants. It looks very much as
though the easiest way would be to say,
“Now you owe yourselves £150.000,000.
Consider yourselves paid.” But with us it
won’t be so easily done as that, and the
future will consist of a struggle to make
the other fellow pay. In the past, as Mill
pointed out, the laborer paid for war —paid
with starvation. Probably it won’t be like
that this time. The point to grasp is that
somebody has to do the paying.
Like all savings banks this one has no
capital of its own apart from its reserves,
and if they were larger they would be no
worse. They total under £BOO,OOO, and
they have to safeguard the following invest-
ments :
Mortgages.. _ ..£2,037,901 21.1 p.c.
Public securities.. 5,839,740 60.5 p.c.
Premises .. .. 79,545 .8 p.c.
Cash, deposits, etc. 1,698,705 17.6 p.c.
Still, so long as the public securities haven’t
to be realised, the reserves are probably
enough. And in any ease the depositors
needn’t worry, because behind the hank
stands the State of S. Australia, which
would have to go broke before this hank
went broke. This identity of State and
hank is thoroughly well understood : yet
even that wouldn’t altogether explain the
remarkable fact that 59 of every 100 people
in S. Aus. are Savings Bank depositors, and
if you include the kindergarten branches—
the penny school-banks —04 of every IcO.
The proportion in N. S. Wales is now about
41 ; in Queensland and Tasmania much less.
* * * *
The South British Insurance Co.
(Maoriland) :
Net To Re- Ro-
Au«r., Profits. Dividends. serves. s< -v.
1904. . £75,532 30 p.c. =£19,388 £56,144 £358,729
£32,314 Reserves transferred to Capital 326.4 15
1905.. 58.691 25 p.c. = 25,000 33.691 360.106
New Share Premiums .. 9,411 369,517
1900.. 72,103 271 p.c.= 27,500 44,603 414,120
1907.. 48.121 30 ~ ~ 30 000 18.1“>1
1908.. 40,308 30 „ „ 30,000 10,808 442,549
1909.. 53,991 30 „ „ 30,000 23,991 466,540
1010.. 74,740 321 ~ ~ 32.500 42.240 508.780
1911.. 83,382 35 „„ 35,000 48,382 557,162
1912.. 83.633 371 .. .. 37.500 46.13.8 603.295
£200,000 Reserves transferr'ed to Capital 403,295
1913.. 91,070 131 p.c.= 40,000 51,070 454,365
1911.. 88.875 15 „ „ 45,000 43.875 498.240
1915.. 134,880 15 „ „ 45,000 89,880 585.120
I<Jl ?v'-i° 9 ’ 7 2? 1 t I 43,509 631,629
\\ ritten oft investments, £21,268 )
Though there has been a considerable
shrinkage in the value of securities and the
management has thought it well to provide
accordingly, this great co. has had another
clinking year. It does a big marine-insur-
ance business; yet actually the loss rate is
distinctly below the average. This paper
doesn’t mean to say that losses have been
lighter than usual. They haven’t been. But
on the risky stuff the premiums have evi-
dently been raised quite as much as the
circumstances called for. with the result
that the loss rate in proportion to premiums
shows up remarkably well during the last
two years. Here are the figures:—
Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p c.
1900.. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60.3,, 26.9 „
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4 „ 27.7 ~
1910.. 336,542 197,320 94,824 68.6 „ 28.1 ,
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 ~ 28.7 ,
1916.. 558,799 296,038 171,537 52.9 „ 30.7 „
The expense rate has moved along pretty
briskly. That, no doubt, is due partly to
the high cost of living and partly to the fact
that this, like other cos., is paying part-
salary to men at the Front. But even with
the higher cost rate the underwriting profit
is. a very satisfactory IG£ p.c. of the pre-
miums. And as the interest earnings are
within a few hundred pounds of the total
required to pay the dividend, it follows that
practically the whole of the underwriting
profit goes to improve the security of the
policy-holder.
That some of this surplus profit is used
just now to write down securities isn’t of
much practical consequence. It really only
matters in case the co. has to sell securities.
If it doesn’t have to sell—if it holds on till
they mature—it doesn’t matter what the
market value is.' The interest earnings are
not reduced just because the market value
has fallen. In fact, this co., though it
shows £21,000-odd written off investments
this year, may actually be benefited by the
circumstances which lead to that writing
off. For, as said just now, the writing off
may be purely nominal, and the depreciation
provided for may not make the co. a penny
the poorer; yet it is one of the consequences
of a rise in the value of money, and that
rise will increase the earnings of nil the
new investments. So the old earnings won’t
be a penny the less and the 40 or 50 thou-
sand of profit which the co. can put by every
year earns at least £5OO a year more than
if would have done three years ngo. And
of course it’s the same with other cos. with
new money to invest.
While things are thus very good from the
shareholders’ point of view, the policy-
holders have good reason to feel contented.
This is what they have to fall back upon
(the percentage figures show the proportion
of each class of holding to the total of
assets) ;
Premises £215,083 18.5 p.c.
Mortgages . . . . .. 272,440 23.3 ~
Deposits and cash balances .. 257.109 22.0
Stocks and debentures . . 48,796 4.2 ~
Public securities .. .... 357,951 30.6 ..
Sundries * 16,955 1.4 ~
Funds, after providing for liabilities, total
£981,029. Add the probable premium in-
come for the coming year in excess of
expenses—say £370,000 —and it will be seen
that the co. could during the next 12 months
pay losses in excess of the total losses of
the last live years. Behind that again there
is £700.000 of capital for which the share-
holders are liable.
* # « *
The Farmers’ Co-operative Association
of Canterbury (M.L.) :
Total
Div. and Writ-
Visible Bonus to ten Rc-
July, Profits. > Customers. Off. serves.
1909. . £32,592 j ® j £28,124 £1863 £67,991
New share premiums, £167 .. 68,158
1910.. 38,366 j g P-C- j 31.974 868 73,682
New share premiums, £2852 .. 70.534
1911.. 47,871 | Orel f 3G - 642 2094 85,669
New share premiums, £7277 . . 92,946
1912.. 50,259 j } 37,565 1684 103,956
New share premiums, £1154 . . 105.110
1913.. 55,321 j *Ord.' } 43,265 2072 115.094
New share premiums, £243 .. 115,33,’
.1914.. 61,884 j gf®’ o r *f; | 50,630 2391 124.200
New shave premiums, £345 .. 124,545
1915.. 58,031 j | P‘ c -j 44,843 3578 134.155
New share premiums, £2235 .. 136,390
1916.. 65,880 | P A ‘- | ? 3948 ?
Ir. is no use guessing at some of the figures
in the last line. All that can be said is
that the directors appropriate enough profit
to carry the formal reserve fund to £145,0*.'0 :
so the total reserves will exceed that figure.
This is equal to nearly 14s. per ordinary
share; hence shareholders in that class do
very well now in being permitted to increase
their holdings at 10s. premium. Pref. shares
(0 p.c.) are available at par.
The directors are making steady efforts
to increase the share capital; ard it seems
highly probable that a very fair proportion
of the £307,802 on current account could
well be permanently invested. If the share-
holder is prepared to let the co. have the
use of the money he might just as well put
it in the form in which the co. can make
the best use of it; and that isn’t on current
account. The total of this debt has been
increasing pretty fast; and it is not the
best feature of the accounts, by any means.
True, the money is deposited by share-
holders only ; but that isn’t much guarantee
that it won’t be disturbed just when dis-
turbance would do the most harm, because
most of the shareholders are not registered
for more than three shares, and that doesn’t
give them much of a stake. It is quite pro-
bable that many of these shareholders think
they are doing just as well for the co. by
taking a deposit receipt for their money as
by taking a share certificate. They need to
be ■ disabused of that. In this paper’s
opinion, at any rate, the big liability for
current account money is, so far from being
a help, a very distinct element of weakness:
whereas the addition of share capital would
be an element of strength.
The co. has made splendid progress; and
some day The Bulletin is going to fit out
an expedition to swoop down on Maoriland
and capture for Australian use the general
manager and half a dozen of the other men
who have established co-operation so firmly
among the farmers of Maoriland. These
figures disclose some of the recent history
of the concern :
Liabilities.
1902. 1910. 1915. 1916.
Capital. . £65,205 £227.721 £405,011 £446,376
Fixed deposits 64,663 183.901 299,182 346,867
Other liabilities 96,054 142,168 376,220 348,214
Assets.
Advances . . 83,335 238,110 459,451 493,994
Stock . . . . 76,613 151,631 239,393 296,350
Freeholds, etc... 36,026 87,274 144,293 159,055
Book debts . . 45,881 103,497 235,321 259,104
Cash . . . . 22,180 62,231 157,026 110,098
As capital has become available new depart-
ments have been opened. The co. manu-
factures chemical fertilisers, and there is
a tremendous amount yet to be done, in that
way. A lot of it could best be done no
doubt by the new federation of co-op. cos.
in which this co. is taking a hand. The co.
also manufactures binder twine and handles
practically all agricultural requirements as
well as all agricultural and pastoral pro-
ducts. The multiplication of departments
has swollen the turnover out of all recogni-
tion. For the 12 months to the end of July,
1906, the volume of business measured
£850,759. In the past year it was
£3,591,321. As business has grown over-
head charges have decreased, and there has
been a steady improvement in the return to
the co-operator. The bonus on purchases
has moved from 4 to 5 p.c.; and 30 p.c.
instead of 25 p.e. of selling commissions
(except on specific lines) is rebated. Mean-
time, certainly, the dividend on ordinary
shares has been reduced from 10 to 8i p.c.
But something better has happened—the
reserves have grown from £31,849 to over
£145,000. They have been more than doubled
in seven years. And that is a performance
far better deserving of three cheers than
the mere maintenance of a 10 p.c. dividend
would be.
* * * *
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Assuv-
and Divi- Out- ance
Aug., Income. Claims, dends. going-s. Fund.
1904. . £13,425 £5273 £6,689 £ 11,962 £5,788
1905.. 13,956 5467 7,081 12,548 7,196
1906.. 14,738 5871 7,060 12,931 9,003
1907.. 15,919 6291 7,401 13,692 11,230
1908.. 17,796 7041 8,094 15,135 13,891
1909.. 18,644 7418 8,375 15,793 16,742
1910.. 19,586 8291 8,443 16,734 19,594
1911.. 21,165 8737 8,997 17,734 23,025
1912.. 22,389 814 4 9,633 17,777 27,637
1913.. 24,070 8996 10,202 19,198 32,509
1914.. 25,252 9049 11.544 20,593 37,168
1915.. 25,577 9178 9,690 18,868 43,877
1916.. 27,236 8840 10,825 19,665 51,448
“Claims £8840; expenses and dividends
£lo.B2s” —that doesn’t look the sort of
thing to call for loud applause. And yet
this paper isn’t disposed to throw bricks.
The following list of disbursements shows
the nature of the co.’s business: —
Payments to doctors and chemists . . £3278
Death claims . . .. . . .. 3192
Maturities . . . . . . . . 967
Surrenders . . . . . . . . 671
Compensation (accident and disease) 732
Total £BB4O
You can’t first secure and then administer
that sort of business for nothing; and the
management hasn’t done badly in reducing
the exes, to below 40 p.c. of the income.
This shows the movement: —
1907.. £46 9 9 p.e. 1912.. £43 0 6 p.c.
1908.. 45 9 8 „ 1913.. 42 7 8 ~
1909.. 44 18 4 „ 1914.. 45 14 4 „
1910. . 43 2 2 ~ 1915. . 37 17 9 „
1911.. 42 10 2 ~ 1916.. 39 14 11 „
The share capital in the business is £10,000;
and that carries G 4 p.c., with a bigger bite
now and Then when the actuary reports
that there is a bit of a surplus to cut up.
It is rather a misfortune that, time after
time, the actuarial report for the previous
three years isn't quite ready for issue with
the annual report.. The things should be
sent out together, especially as nowadays
the co. is doing a little ordinary life insur-
ance. And if that is impossible—though it
isn’t—then the general result of the exami-
nation should be set out in the next follow-
ing annual report. For the present this
paper has no reason to doubt that policy
liabilities are well covered, though it is very-
questionable whether it is prudent to have
as much as 72 p.c. of the funds (capital and
insurance fund combined) represented by-
mortgages.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers and suppliers of station goods :
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses, Off. serves, serves.
e c £ r
Jan., TO.. 7,415 10 p.c.= 3500 3000 915 38,857
July, TO.. 7,252 10 „ ,', 3500 3000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO. . 29,609
Jan.,’ll.. 7,450 10 p.c.= 4000 3000 450 30,059
July,’ll.. 7,852 10 ~,, 4000 3000 852 30,911
Jan., T 2. . 10,445 10 ~,, 4250 6195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 31,106
July, T 2. . 10,742 10p.c.= 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000. . .. 58,098
Jan., T 3.. 9,124 10 p.e.= 5000 4124 62,222
July, T 3.. 7,895 10 ~,,5000- 2895 65,117
Jan., T 4.. 8,532 10 „ ~5000 3532 68,649
July, T 4.. 7,670 10 ~,, 5000 2670 71,319
Jan., T 5.. 8.662 10 „ ~5000 3000 662 71,981
July, T 5.. 8,203 10 „ ~5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan., T 6.. 9,121 10 ~,,5000 4121 78,305
July, T 6.. 8,141 10 „,, 5000 3141 81,446
The half-year’s profit isn’t quite up to the
average; but £4411 has been provided for
taxes as against a trivial £9 in the preceding
half. There are not many trading cos. that
are on a better wicket. Run the eye over
this:—
Liabilities.
Jan., ’O9. July,’ls. Jan.,’l6. July,’l6.
General .. .. £37,648 £54,912 £48,757 £37,359
Assets.
Cash 23,263 44,735 29,955 18,830
Premises, plant, etc. 15,202 18,427 17,963 18,181
Stock .. .. 27,501 48,727 45,176 59,670
Book debts .. 60,472 82,770 85,060 65,669
McCulloch Co. . . 21.846 38,937 40,408 39,954
Public securities. . —• 11,000 20,000
Taking the increase in book debts to balance
the decrease in cash, then over £30,000 has
been added to stock, another £lB,OOO to the
investment in the McCulloch Carrying Co.,
the. profitable Victorian concern which
Wright Heatons own entirely, and £20.000
has been put into the War Loan. All this
has been done out of undivided profit with
the exception of £14,000 got for a new issue
of shares, Possibly not quite all has been done
out of profits made since the beginning of
1909, because there was a revaluation of
assets in 1912 and £21.000 of internal re-
serves. were. then disclosed. On the other
hand, it is highly probable that on a revalua-
tion now there would be a considerable addi-
tion to the present figures. Moreover, given
satisfactory management, there is every
reason to expect that this co. will continue
to do well, because it is pretty certain that,
even if Australia suffers a slump after the
war, the cultivation of wool and wheat will
not tail off. We shall certainly be in the
soup if it does.
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
Written To Re- Re-,
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904.. £1753 Nil —£1753 £7.109
1905.. 1221 Nil 1221 8,330
1906.. 1816 Nil 1816 10,146
1907.. 2458 10$ p.c.= £1465 993 11.139
1908.. 2411 10$ „„ 1465 £8506 • 3,579
1909.. 3040 10§ „ „ 1465 1000 575 4,154
1910.. 3963 14-1 „ „ 1953 1000 1010 5,164
1911.. 4918 141 „ „ 1953 2965 8,129
1912.. 6203 21$ ~ „ 2930 3273 11,402
1913.. 5124 21J „ „ 2930 2194 13,596
1914.. 4927 21$ ~ ~ 2930 1997 15,593
1915.. 2126 Nil 2126 17,719
1916.. 3871 21fp.c.= 2930 941 18,660
By way of putting ice on our heads let us
turn back to the records of 25 y T ears ago.
when Melbourne was previously revelling in
borrowed money. This co. then had a paid
share capital of £123 584; and it owed
£70,000 on mortgage and £2732 otherwise.
To represent all this capital and debt it
had a freehold valued at £151,082 and fit-
tings, etc., a trifle under £BO,OOO. A few
years later —in 1896"—the property was
revalued, and this is how the assets side of
the 1897 balance-sheet started :—-
Freehold property at cost. . £151,082
Less written off . . . . 86,082
— £65,000
Furniture account at cost. . 29,210
Less written off . . . . 17,866
11,344
So £103.948 had vanished, and share capital,
which had got up to £130,075, was written
down to £12,762 to cover these and other
shrinkages and losses. The shares had been
paid to 195.; they were written down to
25., and subsequently lid. was called, so the
present capital is £13,493. In 1.897 the
mortgage _was £60,000. It has been reduced
to £36,175, and the co. could easily manage
£4OOO more. As the mortgage is paid ol
out of profit the amount is in these days not
written off the hook value of the property:
instead it swells a mortgage redemption
fund. Some day no doubt steps will be


The British Westinghouse Electric 81 Mfg. Co., Ltd.
W estinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
fdsf
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 10,000 Kilowatts.
ds
M anchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
.................ii.iiimMiimiiimmimmiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiimmimiimtmiiiiiiiiiilllimi
The General Electric Co. manufacture mine elec-
tric locomotives of both storage battery and trolley
types, which will withstand the most severe operating-
conditions of mine service. Careful study of loco-
motives in actual service, and a thorough investigation
of the varied problems of mine haulage has resulted
in the introduction of new improvements and refine-
ments of designs. These locomotives cover a range
of sizes and forms wide enough to include any
haulage requirements within the demands of electric-
locomotive work, and incorporate all those features
which have been most desirable by practical mine
operators. Anyone requiring either information or
quotations in this connection may obtain same by
communicating with the Australian General Electric
Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; or corner of Queen
and Little Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferrie is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, darns, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents : Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — \dvt.
* * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Heela
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars. —-AnvT. 11
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe conquers difficulties! Not only
does it carry all fluids, hot or cold, without deteriora-
tion, but it is light to handle and can quickly be
laid by unskilled labor. It is the cheapest piping
to buy. Send for illustrated catalogue. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Company, Limited (head office),
57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; Foots-
cray, Victoria ; Port Adelaide, S.A. —Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Bequisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. — Advt.
Fire, Marin
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for • particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 9
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 ®
£783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. '' 1 1
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
taken to restore capital to the extent of
this fund ; and it will be a quite legitimate
proceeding. In fact, advisable ; because the
-If p.c. dividend is wholly misleading.
* * * *
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne), from
the date of the great cleaning up:—
Profit
Trading on To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911.. £4819 £329 3i p.c. = £3381 £1767 £23,863
1912.. 4954 1267 5 „ „ 4830 1391 25,254
1913.. 5733 2422 61 „ „ 6279 1876 27,130
1914.. 6944 7469 7' „„ 6762 7651 34,781
1915.. 8103 116 8J „„ 8211 8 34,789
1916.. 8207 9 84 „ „ 8211 5 34,794
The co. is transacting very little new busi-
ness. It has got rid of almost all its old assets,
and is now doing little more than receive
instalments on account of properties sold.
The next table shows that aspect better: —-
1911. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities .. £29,588 £44,098 £43,941 £46,429
Balances owing 85,511 124,516 120,866 128,018
Freehold house
property . . 8,000 2,500 2,500 2,500
Vacant land.. 8,542 1,299 1,292 1,308
Premises .. 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Other assets.. 1,384 550 5,506 349
The directors say they have proceeded so
cautiously that not a property advanced on
since 1910 is on the society’s hands, “and
the Board does not feel uneasy about any
of the loans now on the books.” But how
it is going to pay 81 p.c. on a capital of
£96,605 unless it increases the business this
paper doesn’t know. The £50,000 in pre-
mises—Modern Chambers —isn’t much help.
It brings in about £2700 a yea r_ net, less
£1250 interest on mortgage = £1450. Pity
it wasn’t got rid of. Interest on the mort-
gage isn’t going to be any lighter, while the
chances are that the rental income will
shrink. In 1903, which was a pretty sick
year, gross receipts from office rents were
only £2737; last year they were £4058.
A. and E. Ellis, Ltd., sawmillers and
timber merchants, of Sydney and the
N.S.W. northern rivers :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1911.. - £25
„ 1912.. £6117 10 p.c. = £4955 £1162 1187
„ 1913.. 7588 10 „ „ 5597 1991 3178
Feb., 1914.. 4218 10 „ ~ 3495 723 3901
Aug., 1914.. 4398 7 „ „ 2625 1773 5674
Feb., 1915.. 3771 8 ~ „ 3000 771 6445
Augi, 1915.. 3744 8 „ „ 3000 744 7189
Feb., 1916.. 3736 8 ~ ~ 3000 736 7925
Aug., 1916.. 3104 8 „ „ 3000 104 8029
The timber trade has had an amazingly
good time during the past few years; and
because it is likely to sag pretty badly
before long it is advisable to examine timber
accounts with that probability in mind. In
this ease the co. has a capital of £75,000,
and that answers all requirements fairly
well. The total liabilities are £22,838, in-
cluding all trade accounts, and the assets
include £14,965 of book debts and liquid
assets, £32,752 of stock, and £61,150 of
plant, mills, vessels and interests in similar
things. The financial position is therefore
easy, and the co. wouldn’t apparently be
embarrassed by a slump in trade, as a co.
which had heavily stocked on borrowed
money might easily be. Still, there’s
precious little margin left now after paying
the 8 p.c.; and, though there will always
be a demand for hardwood, and though on
that account this co. may expect to do
better than most, it can’t expect affluence in
the years when we shall be paying-up. As
for past profits they don’t seem to have been
exaggerated; at any rate, where one can
trace it, depreciation appears to have been
well provided for.
* * * ■*
The appointment of a Government actuary
to assist the friendly societies of N. S. Wales
has straightened up those bodies wonder-
fully ; and most of them are now on a sound
basis. The results of the investigation of
one of the oldest of them, the Oddfellows,
Manchester Unity, to the end of 1914, have
just been reported to headquarters. This
society has in the State £622,804 of funds,
and that is reckoned by the actuary to be
£162,714 in excess of requirements —assum-
ing, of course, that present contributions and
benefits are maintained.
* % * * *
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) is being visited
by mining-engineer Pellew Harvey, a Lon-
don director. Some weighty debenture-
holders are getting rather anxious, so
Harvey was asked to try to find out what
is the matter with the property and why
the estimated quantity of ore is not being
treated. J. R. Godfrey, of the Mines
Department, had a good look round a couple
of months back, and perhaps the, Govern-
ment is also getting a little nervous about
the country’s hard-borrowed £40,000 put
into the concern to enable it to resume
operations 12 months ago. Meanwhile it
is carrying quite sufficient embroidery for a
co. 10 times as great and 100 times more
prosperous.
Bourke’s Hill (N.S.W.) got out £3216
worth of tin last half-year; but that was
£l9 short of exes., without providing any-
thing for wear and tear. The two plants
were shifted to new positions during the
term, and that and shortage ot watei helped
to bump up the costs to 9.9 d. per yard toi
No. 1 and 11.7 d. for No. 2. Both plants are
now on Preston’s ground, with good pros-
pects ; and as the financial position is easy
they won’t have to go far before share-
holders get a bite again.
* * „ , 1 .. „ * .
Southern Cross, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), is
on the market, lock, stock and barrel. The
m j ne never was worth twopence; but the
sm>face ig not a bad catchment for a dam.
There is a fair plant. Curiously not one of
the Ardlethan swindles got anyone into gaol.
We are a long-suffering people.
* # *
p i, (NSW) announces
' V SGl ] v continue to
W, “least one NSW tin
c • , favor nd things cer-
tainly look promising, for the bed of wash
met with from Gordon’s shaft carrying
42m., worth 1801 b. per yard. Ihe guttei
is deeper than at Chandler s workings, so
the mystery of the course of the lead may
b(J eluc j dated by the simple method of fol-
lowing the trail. Twenty-two bore-holes
failed to pick it up, so it has evidently taken
an unexpected course. Some of the wash at
Chandler’s working is worth 3001 b. per yard,
and this rich dirt has helped the mine to
. t t f nPV
sustain an output ot 1U tons pei week.
* * *
Assistant-Government Geologist Blatch-
ford (W.A.) reports that there is nothing
either new or sensational in the recently-
reported gold discovery at Lake Seabrook,
north of Yellowdine, on the Yilgarn field,
* * * *
Golden Butterfly has signalised its resur-
rpction by acquiring a nine months’ working
O ption over a group of leases adjoining the
New Boddington at Goongarrie (W.A.).
One of the blocks, known as the Roaring
Gimlet, was sold in early days for £25,000,
but after being worked to a depth of 130 ft.
it wag abandoned. The New Boddington,
after being tested by a co., was also aban-
doned; but eventually it was acquired by
two prospectors who found a new reet and
took out several good crushings and then
so ld o ut to a local syndicate, which has since
fi o;lted a co . i n Kalgoorlie. Several other
blocks in the viainity are also being nibbled
at by option hunters. The neighboring
Broad Arrow field has, after a long period
0 f dreary stagnation, started to buck up,
an d several leases, which were abandoned
after yielding big quantities of gold, are
again being successfully worked,
* * * *
Golden Point tried to get further exemp-
tjon on its Westonia (W.A.) lease last
mont h, but some of the townspeople kicked
So hard that the co. withdrew its applica-
tiou and announced its intention to sink
a new s h a ft with the object of “picking up
at dept h any ore bodies that may exist.”
It would be safer to back something for the
Clip.
* * * *
Shortage of water is interfering with
milling operations on Amalgamated West-
ralia’s Burtville show, and the manager
urges the deepening of the shaft to 2Ooft.
to see if an ample supply can be got there,
A parcel of 25 tons recently cleaned up
yielded between 10 and 12 dwt. per ton;
but a lot depends upon whether it was a
fair average sample. The report now being
made on the show by G. Beresford, late of
the Golden Butterfly, may throw some light
on the subject. Yilgarn Consols claims to
have just obtained a 2oz. average from a
3 00-ton crushing from its Burtville holding,
and according to the terms of the option
this return goes towards the purchase of
the property. A fair amount of ore is
stated to be showing above water level, and
the stone is, according to official reports,
going strongly underfoot. But it’s a dis-
trict habit for a reef to show strongly under-
fOot o ne day and vanish the next,
* * » ,
~T , „
* ie . yea l ' l ended Joly 31
(W.A.) obtained £194, <95 from '
tons, compared with £249,878 from 125,990
tons in the previous year. The decrease in
tonnage is attributed to increased moisture
in the ore and the lesser revenue to poorer
grade ore. Mining costs at 20s. 9d. were up
a little, the rise being due to increased costs
of supplies. Reduced tonnage also, had an
adverse effect, and until normal times re-
turn there is little hope of improvement at
this or any of the other big \\ estralian
mines. In his report to the Board, general-
manager R. S. Black states that though
nothing of very material value was un-
earthed during the year moderate addi-
tions” were made to the ore reserves, lhe
average grade of the ore raised was oos. Jd.,
or 7s. 3d. less than for the previous term,
and according to the g.-m. it can only be a
matter of months when a further decline
in value will he shown. Only a limited
known quantity of rich ore is left'in the
mine, and on its exhaustion the co. will
have to work on a grade which, treated at
full mill capacity, will show only a bare
margin over present expenses.
.)umbuuua, Gippsland (Vic.), netted only
£43 from 18.1 SO tons coal mined last half-
year; and the chairman threatens to shut
the mine down if the Arbitration Court
shortens hours and puts wages up. Like all
other Outtrim mines Jumbunna has good
coal, but it’s not easy to get. Up and
down throw-faults and narrow seams in-
volve so much dead work that prices have to
go high for the co. to earn a decent profit.
Then, too, it has a fire smouldering away in
the north side-tunnel. Coal sales totalled
£17,598, but wages, etc., absorbed £16,017
and railway freight £l4lB. These figures
only relate to working charges, and as the
co. makes its little bit out of trading account
it is there that the profit of £43 is shown.
Liquid assets amount to £7500, including
stocks of coal. Against that there are £3224
of liabilities. It might pay Jumbunna to
forsake narrow seams and try its luck at
briquetting work on the brown coal.
* * * *
Dunno what’s coming next, but “Edward
Dyason Proprietary, Ltd.,” has bought out
“the interests of the management of the
[Bendigo] cos. now controlled by the follow-
ing legal managers: North and Stanfield,
W. B. Walker, ,T. 11. Craig. L. B. Birch and
W. Weddell.” -The new co. will put all the
mining cos. in these stables into one office, to
be managed in Bendigo by J. G. Stanfield
and in Eaglehawk by W. P». Walker.
* # * *
Clonc-urry is making solid progress and
railway deviations are being built to the
Great Australia and some other mines. The
extension of the line to the Dobbin has
brought a new road to Oxide into use. Oxide
is developing a new shoot of ore on the
hanging-wall side of the big formation. A
crosscut was driven east from the main
adit, and the new make of ore is running
north and south and parallel to the main
lode. Option hunters had a heap of luck in
obtaining the Lady Margaret prize. The old
workings were only 6ft. from an ore body
20ft. wide containing splendid values.
* * * *
Kulamadau (Papua) was accused the
other day of sudden silence after producing
£6789 in six weeks. But its modesty is
quite natural, because this good run was a
special effort to pay off debts. The latest
return was £2363 (the value of retorted
gold concentrates and cyanide bullion) for
six weeks. During that time 968 tons of
stone were crushed and 1450 tons of tailings
cyanided. No estimate of profit is attempted.
The next wireless message should have some-
thing to say about No. 7 level, for the rich
lens of stone is to be followed deeper.
Things are in trim for the opening up of
the No. 4 shaft level at the North Farrell,
Tullah (Tas.), so it won’t be long before
the sampling of No. 3 lode will begin. See-
ing that stopes from No. 2 level are nearly
beaten through to No. 1. a big drain is on
No. 3 to supply the mill. Stopes on No. 2
lode run about sft., and those on No. 3
about 12ft. The “firsts” —what there are of
them—run to 70oz. silver and 60 p.c. lead,
and the concentrates from the poorer stuff go
over 40oz. silver and 50 p.c. lead per ton, so
the co. has a chance to make a bit while the
fat war prices rule for metals. Beside the
big Broken Hill formations the North
Farrell is a toy. Still, its No. 3 shaft level
on No. 3 lode carries ore over a width of
18ft. This should mean a good chance of
getting something decent at the next lift.
But on the West Coast nothing can be taken
for granted until the pick converts “pro-
bable” ore into actual reserves.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The views expressed by “Coot”
(B. 5/10/T6) are fairly common in Tas-
mania, more’s the pity for Tasmania. The
idea is that nobody should be given the
right to do anything lest he should make
money out of it. When a co. like the Amal-
gamated Zinc comes along and makes a deal
for a big block of water-power at a price
that ought to give the State a good profit,
these people get the shivers, howl about
monopoly and say that anyone who wants
power in future will have to go cap in hand
to the big co. to get it. “Coot” says, by the
way, that the diversion of the Upper Ouse
into the Great Lake is a big question, but
engineers don’t seem to think it’s very big.
Anyway, why howl if the Amalgamated
Zinc does eventually take a big proportion
of the power from the Great Lake? There
are plenty of other sources to sup-
ply future “enterprising investors” without
adopting a dog-in-the-manger policy towards
the people who are prepared to sign up the
business right away. There’s Lake St.
Clair, the Arthur Lake scheme, the falls on
the Franklin and on the West Coast and
elsewhere waiting to be yoked up. Certainly
it will cost money to do it, but the Speck’s
bound to be borrowing the money, anyway,
“to keep the wheels of industry going,” and
it had better spend it fin going nap on water
power than fritter it aw’ay in expensive
and nearly useless harbor works and rail-
way extensions and odds and ends as it is
in the habit of doing.
“Jans Tas”: Mention of the Jupiter
(Tas.) recalls its discovery in ’95 by two
prospectors—W. T. Hodge, of Zeelian. and
the invalid who is now writing this par.
The outcrop was pyrites, and we suspected
it to be the continuation of the Hercules
lode, then recently discovered. Though we
were millionaire's in enthusiasm, we were a
bit short of cash, and it required £23 10s.
to take up an 80-acre section. We con-
sidered the position; it was a lonely spot,
the scrub was dense horizontal, and bush-
men will know what that means. Few men
were roaming the bush, so we thought we
could risk it while we earned enough to
take up the section. About four months
later, after driving a hard tunnel on con-
tract, making 7s. a day, we came with high
hopes to peg the ground. We pushed
through that awful scrub, sat down on the
spot where we had broken the pyrites
months before, and were considering how
we’d peg the section, when the eye of my
mate caught sight of a fresh tomahawk-
mark. We leapt to our feet to investigate.
The blazed line led ns to a notice posted
on a tree, setting out that two sections had
been taken up for a Launceston syndicate
two days previously. It was hard luck, but
prospectors meet a lot of that.
"Bad Australian” from S. America: —
Many years ago a party of Australians arrived
in this country and unloaded a lovely wild cat on
to Buenos Aires. It was the notorious San Juan
de Oro, and the fall thereof caused so much bitter-
ness of spirit in high places that for years after
the great awakening every Australian who arrived
was asked if he had a rich uncle in Fiji. But that
is all past and forgotten, and Argentina, after a wild
financial jamboree of three or four years’ duration, is
starting in to develop her “great natural resources,”
and as she is a born gambler she naturally turns
to mining. A number of abandoned copper and
galena shows have been re-opened, and wolframite
and sheelite deposits are being' worked, chiefly in the
Province of San Luis. The boomsters are thrusting
their heads up modestly at first, but 1 feel assured
that the Gold Brick Renaissance period has arrived.


CaidViiriiijnw^ l4
HEERING
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
John Sirahci winters
HfIIRrOOD
Hair Grower
3 SSHa
A CROWN OF BEAUTIFUL HAIR
John
Strange
Winto r’s
Toilet Preparations
Insure a victory for all time.
Powders, Face Creams,
Lotion, toap, Dental Cream
and Hair Foods.
Obtainable from all
Drapers, Civil Service,
W. H. Soul & Co.
See Demonstrations now
at IF. T. Waters & Co.,
„ , _ . , . . King Street. Awarded Six
Hair Food (oily) for q 0 l d Medals—London,
dry scalps, J/- Paris and Rome. Send 2d.
Hair Food (non-oily) stamp for sample of Soap
for oily scalps, 4/- or Powder to
IOHN STRANGE WINTER (London, Paris & Rome).
Sydney Offices:
32 Depot, 26 Jamieson St., Sydney,
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Model and Sporting Hats, Blouses, etc.
Sisters Vimard,
Skin and Scalp Scientific Specialists,
Macquarie Chambers,
1 cl- 208 City. 153 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Late London, Paris, Edinburgh and New York.
Twenty years’ extensive experience in all Skin and
Scalp Troubles are at your service. If unable to
call, write.
SINCE
1679.
1679.
SINCE
HAIG & HA
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 16, 1916.
My Dear Arini, —
The Fairguson is on the trail of Duty, and
.has a rousing list of engagements. On
Saturday he addressed a Manly crowd and
unveiled a tall column to commemorate the
Village’s share in war’s death-roll. Mark
Mitchell handed over the long pillar—a
roll of honor in perpetuity. It is his monu-
ment to his boy, a lieutenant, whose name is
in the list. Next day, being' the Sabbath,
his Ex. and his tall lady went to St. Ste-
phen’s kirk to hear big John Ferguson
expound the Word.
Lady Helen started on her cycle of opening
this, that and the other with a ceremony in
the back woods of Waterloo. Some months
ago her Ex. lifted the latch of the soldiers’
wives and mothers’ centre in the same spot.
Now it’s a going concern, and there were
new club rooms to he officially talked to. The
rain had cleared. So Aide Haskett Smith
hadn’t to do the Walter Raleigh act with his
best frock-coat on a muddy path. In the
early spring of this week Lady Helen takes
charge of a patriotic party in the North Syd-
ney School of Arts. It is the local chemists'
ladies committee, and there’s no homoeo-
pathic measure about their work.
The end of the A.J.C. races began under
weepy skies. Gloomy weather prophets un-
furled their gamps and set forth prepared
for a web-footed day. The butterfly bri-
gade, tucked away in taxis, sped out to
Rand wick in summer muslins. The optimists
had their reward. A brilliant afternoon gave
them a blue and gold background. But the
gee-gees had to mind their feet, and the
steeplechase was a roly-poly game.
Backers of Leslie Stuart’s Louvre on a
previous day had the joy of again collecting
their winnings—at a shorter price—when
the game little nag hurried past the post in
the scamper over the big timber. And
Quinologist brought joy to some of the khaki
boys from Randwic-k as the result of a
friendly 'tip. So the Spring meeting gave
the poor old public a few shillings here and
there.
In the inner shrine of the official stand
• best frocks were dotted about amongst the
sac suits of the sporting male. A few years
ago women were barely tolerated, certainly
never encouraged, in this eyrie. Now voii
go there to find the latest thing in tulle.
Mrs. Fred McMaster, in a biscuit-colored
frock, was one of the good-looking young
country matrons who had her own squatter
to consult about the satin-skinned beauties
on the course. Dr. Pat Ivenna, a keen
sport, had the luck to fancy Louvre, and
Mrs. Pat did ditto under the brimless croWn
of the latest spring millinery. Theo Marks
followed the races with the look of concen-
tration you’ll mostly find in the Man Who
Knows Something. The tall A. E. Hughes
—a Darling Point squire—escorted his Best
Girl, whose white cloth outfit was the ulti-
mate word in the fashionable flare. Per-
haps, in a Better Planet, some of these good
things will be distributed amongst the de-
serving poor. The Hugheses, by the way,
would have been on their voyage to Colombo
if both their babies hadn’t suddenly held
tilings up with the loud, determined bark of
whooping-cough. Little Mrs. Ken Richards,
m dove-grey plumage, noted the scratchings
under a floppy white hat.
Black, striped like the zebra, or merely
cross-barred in inky lines, was wedged in
between the eternal taffeta puffs, in bronze
or dull indigo blue. Mrs. Jackson, who used
to be Leonie Dodds, was in a black frock of
literally, outstanding merit—a feat only
achieved by unseen terraces of silk frills.
Harking back to blue, a dark-eyed damsel,
.Miss Woolf, was in .the first flight in a
shining navy frock with an audible rustle
But the fourth race-day found a serious con-
tingent of winter tailor-built women—the
minor weather prophets who had prepared
for a second deluge.
Decorative feet were in evidence on such
race days as did not call for goloshes. The
new shoes are as fanciful as were the heavy
winter boots. They are laid out in designs
either check or mottled like the lizard’s
Sunday frock. Or they are white with
black points. At prices en suite, as they
say in the upholstery department, they are
not for everybody. And how tired' you
would get of your only walking-shoes if
they had to be cleaned with two or three
different brands of “mottle” to suit their
iguana complexion!
Government House loses another A.D.C.
on October 25. The nice, upstanding New
I Soy, young Boulton, of tlie Cameron High-
landers, leaves for England via the States
on that day. He is barely convalescent
after his knocking about in France. Still,
lie packs up his kilts and goes looking for
more trouble.
United Charities Day had to struggle
against the stream. There’ll be a dead-end
feeling about sports meetings—even for
charity—till Australia votes “Yes” to rein-
force our weary brothers in the trenches.
It is not generally known to the doubting
Thomasinas perhaps that at the present
moment a big division of artillery is with-
out reinforcements. “To my knowledge,”
wrote an Australian about his elder brother
lately—“to my knowledge he hasn’t had his
clothes off for a fortnight.”
i In the city something like £BOOO fell into
the United Charities’ collection-boxes. In
gorgeous sunshine the Show Ground carni-
val failed to attract more than a moderate
attendance. Secretary Somer, of the Agri-
cultural Society, rode about the show ring
as lion, overseer, with a keen eye for the
bogus collector who slips into every charity
sports meeting. Miss Kemp, after super-
intending the buck jumping in a small,
fenced-in compound, won the ladies’ high-
jump competition. Mrs. Staee was a close
rival. The “bucks,” by the way, had a
rope round their bodies. When the
equestrienne gave her end of the hemp a
pull they arched their backs like infuriated
cats. One youngster, a mite of a girl, stuck
on through an enthusiastic bucking perform-
ance by pony Tipperary. An older boy
then tried his luck. But his luck was to
hit the earth like an india-rubber ball, so he
picked up his hat and retired while he still
had a whole skin. As usual, State-school
kiddies contributed to the show.
Lieut. T. Amphiett, who left with the
35th Battalion, was recently married on
the other side. The bride was Ella Ryrie,
of the N. S. Wales squatting family.
Evie Yates, of this hamlet, has said “Yes”
to Arthur Patrick. He belongs to a family
which has contributed four sons to the great
fight. The newly-engaged Arthur himself
came back from Egypt the other week. Eye
trouble was the nuisance. But it’s getting
better, thank you.
The versatile A. B. Piddington, K.C., is
president of the Spanish-Australian Associa-
tion. He look the chair on Monday evening
while Consul Macedo (for Peru) discoursed.
The war has whipped up local interest in
foreign talk. Sydney is now getting its
tongue round all the leading languages that
fell out of the Tower of Babel.
Here is the Mother of the 2nd Divi-
sional Ammunition Column Comforts com-
mittee—Mrs. Bal-
lantine. Nominally
she is the hon.
secretary. In fact,
she is a tireless
commanding officer
and general utility.
Mrs. Ballantine,
whose son is with
the 2nd D.A.C.,
went to Melbourne
in November, 1915,
to get the glad con-
sent of the O.C. to
forthwith start the
Sydney committee.
Since then there
has been an un-
broken record of
harmonious work
by a band of un-
selfish women in the Faimouth Chambers
depot.
The personnel of this column was so
changed in Egypt that Bill and Jim made
way for Tom and Harry. “Don’t mind the
changes, girls!” she said. “We’re working
for Australian soldiers —God bless ’em !” and
the mother had her way. This coming
Christmas 102 cases of comforts (carefully
examined in detail, for, you’d scarcely believe
it, the lady enemy in our midst is up to queer-
tricks) will reach the D.A.C. boys in the
trenches. With shrewd foresight, Mrs. Bal-
lantine saw that the changes in Australian
artillery units should be met by the amalga-
mation of comforts committees. After Trojan
efforts she succeeded in persuading some
others to fall in line. She formed the
nucleus of the “O” Siege (now 36th Heavy
Australian Artillery) Comforts Fund, and
joyously welcomed the 22nd Howitzer and
the Ist and 7th Artillery amalgamation. Even
a lone camel corps, ’way out amidst Egyptian
sandstorms, is looking to this big-hearted
woman to see about its socks. Now, with
Heaven knows how many boys in khaki to
help, she lias a rapidly-emptying cashbox to
fill. You know what that means.
Big Bob Maddrell, of Braidwood, gave
his arm to Gracie Mates, a Melbourne girl,
one day last week. The occasion was
trimmed with flowers in St. John’s, Darling-
hurst. Brother Edgar_ Maddrell was second-
best man. The home-coming will be in a
handsome nest in Goulburn. Houses, it
appears, are hard to get in Braidwood a
where the inhabitants stick like lichen to
their humpies. Hence new husband Bob
•means to motor 50 miles or so every week to
have a look at his flocks and herds in the
Maddrell family’s paddocks. The wedding-
cake was passed round at the Cairo.
Did I tell you that pretty little Madge
Hardy—father sells diamonds in Hunter-
street —is engaged to Captain Jack Playfair?
The French Bank in Sydney has had
almost a rush of people wanting to change
French notes. Sending little presents home,
these dear fellows, said an official. “No,
no,” said wounded Billjim who had been
changing one lot of money. “The chaps are
sending over to have a bit in Tatt.’s for the
Cup.”
The arch smile
that greets you in
this little picture
belongs to Rosa
Alba, a young Aus-
tralian lyric
soprano. The win-
ner of one of the
principal scholar-
ships in our Con-
servatorium, she’s
going to work hard
there for three
years. Then, with
luck, Europe and
a final polish. Ver-
brugghen is so in-
terested in the
voice—sweet and
pure in tone as the
silvery notes of our
bush bellbird —that he won’t in this case
countenance the usual student’s public ap-
pearance. Her one warble for a long time
to come happened in the Conservatorium
the other evening. John Brownlow arranged
this “one night only” song-burst. There
wasn’t a bean for him in the business. And
the nightingale won’t get many new feathers
out of it either, for the week bulged
with conceits. Rosa’s voice has tlie limpid
beauty of Melba’s, with the freshness of a
boy-chorister’s. She’s an advanced student,
as her facile trills in Handel’s “Ye Cupids
and Graces” proved. Admirably taught
before joining the Conservatorium (I fancy
Maggie Stirling had a hand in the prelimi-
nary breaking-in), Roland Foster has the luck
to be her present teacher. Luck, because
Rosa Alba sings like a canary, being made
that way.
The concert for the Italian Red Cross
brought out the usual square of blue Axmin-
ster for the feet of distinguished and undis-
tinguished visitors. The attendant damsels,
organised by Miss Ferrari, met the audience
at the Town Hall gates. Turned out in the
national costume of our Ally they mostly
wore geranium-red skirts, lattice-work chemi-
settes and Neapolitan headgear. Signors
and signorinas contributed coal-black hair
and eyes like midnight. But the bulk of the
concert crowd consisted of the good Aus-
tralian citizen who is dragged out o’ nights
by his citizeness to every patriotic show no
matter what the cause. Consul Eles hadn’t
gone back to Melbourne, after all. So he
took one of the best chairs, with Consul
Chayet at his elbow. Dr. Marano, Italy’s
local consul, was also in the forefront.
Tenor Balboni, of the Gonsalez co., sang
with difficulty through a heavy cold rather
than send his regrets for absence. Fillipini,
in good voice, and little soprano Visoni, in
yellow silk flounced with black lace, con-
tributed. The male songbirds were handed
boomerangs, suitably inscribed, and a bottle
apiece of old Italian wine. John Lemmone
starred in a flute solo, Albert Goossens sang
his best, and Malcolm McEachern assisted
and arranged it all.
Hon. treas. Gagliardi has about £5OO in
hand as the result of the concert.
There was a rumor that Dr. Cecil Purser
was going officially to ’Murlca to have a
look at Sam’s methods of fighting the tuber-
cular enemy. But it’s not likely to be till
after the other enemy has been whacked.
Mrs. Kernot and a pretty young daughter
go back to Wellington (M.L.) this week.
They’ve been over for six months or so. The
Maoriland lady describes herself as merely
“an intermittent writer,” but she turns out
rhythmic verse when the Muse bites,
A 'full house heard Vera Cree’s good-bye in
the Town Hall. The girl’s rich contralto,
notably in the setting' of “Abide with Me,”
which every famous Australian contralto has
sung in Sydney Town Hall, filled the big-
building. She won the only scholarship
awarded this year in Australia by the Royal
Academy, as you know. With her teacher,
Miss Ada Gee, pretty, confident, well-set-up
Vera leaves for England early in 1917.
A Schools’. Exhibition to demonstrate the
arts and crafts, the plain and fancy cooking,
etc., was opened during this week by Peter
Board. It’s in the loft of the Education
Palace, under the glass roof. In stifling
heat a dense crowd, with swarms of young-
children, mopped its perspiring face while
the long Director of Education made his com-
ments. Chief-Inspector Dawson followed
with choice flowers of Scottish oratory.
Infants in arms, a large contribution from
the mothers present, gurgled their protests at
the suffocating entertainment, and the girls
and boys who “demonstrated” must have
had a stifling time.
The ever-youthful-looking Mrs. Archie
Blackton, .known on concert programmes as
Geraldine Rivers, deserves a mention in this
letter. Husband and eldest son both wear
major’s crowns somewhere along the lengthy
Front. No. 2 son is a lieutenant on the
instructional staff, while a third is getting
points on gunnery out at the Warren, the
ex-Carmelite abbey on Tempe heights.
Electric trams will soon be shattering the
mellow peace of Spring and Bent streets.
There are few places in Sydney where you
can get away from the whine and roar of
the cars. The area sliced by Spring, Bent
and Gresham streets was one of them, and
it was possible for the dazed wayfarer to go
there and collect his thoughts while breath-
ing the chloroform that hangs around Gov-
ernment offices. But it was too good to
last. They’re putting the quiet by-ways in
irons now, and Progress will be roaring
along in a week or two. Then when you
hop into a tram at the Railway to go to the
Quay you may get a nasty surprise to find
that you’re being whisked back into Pitt
street by this new loop.
Paul Du-fault says good-bye to Sydney
within the coming week. His adieu begins
on Saturday evening in the Town Hall.
The 17th Battalion ladies had an after-
noon-out in the Tom Raines’ beautiful
garden. Guyong, trimmed with terraced
lawns and having a real stage-setting of
tall tree-fern, is the ideal background for a
hungry comforts-fund party. While the band
played, young things in diaphanous muslins
sold and raffled anything from a lace hanky to
a red Rhodes Island rooster, which crowed
vociferously to show there was no deception.
With Mrs. Raine and a daughter were stall-
holders innumerable. Mrs. Oscar Back-
house and Mrs. Norman Pope were moving
spirits. Mrs. Maxwell Allan floated round
with a raffle-book to get the rooster off her
hands. Mrs. Richard Binnie brought her
youngsters along to splash their pocket-
money. E. Gard Trouton (the Man •of
Mystery) searched every hole and corner for
a southerly gale. But the Thing wouldn’t
budge out of its secret hiding-place, so the
Messages to Mars (per kite-wireless) had
to be postponed. May Macleod lent her aid
in one of the trade centres; and Spring
materialised in Mrs. Tom Watson’s lilac
gown.
Tram-travellers from Double Bay on
Saturday afternoon were inundated with
gaiters and bishops’ hats at the Darling
Point junction. The visiting graces of the
Synod and their friends and relatives had
been drinking tea and ginger-beer with the
Archbish. _ Wrights at gabled Bishopcourt.
Melbourne’s Lowther Clarke, Brisbane’s fav-
orite Donaldson, and a battery of canons
(major and minor), with deans (rural and
city) and every archdeacon in town, came
hurrying along the dusty Point road. When
the tram service couldn’t stand the rush a
few senior clerics folded their aprons round
their knees and crowded into cabs.
After all, the Society of Artists will
chance war-time, and hold a November show.
As usual, they remain faithful to their eyrie
in Queen Victoria Markets. Take the lift
and go as high as you can. Then climb
the Society’s corkscrew stairs. Mildred
Lovett (Mrs. Paterson) is back in Sydney
after a long absence in Brisbane, so her
china-painting ought to gladden the eye at
the coming art show.
Basso Cacialli hurt his ankle and couldn’t
drag the injured limb through “Ernani,” so
first-nighters either went elsewhere or heard
Balboni in “Pagliacei.” On Thursday evening
the deep-voiced singer saw the Gonsalez Co.
through the music of “Favorita.” But he
had to make heroic efforts not to go dead-
lame as . the Prior. He wore an orthodox
beard, but his monkly comrades (be careful
of that!) showed moustaches.
The usually-correct Cappelli "hadn’t even
disguised the ornament on his upper lip
while, as a Novice, he warbled of his love
for Eleonora. The lady (Miss Russ) had
Christmas-tree decorations in her hair for
her first appearance. But this was nothing.
In a later act she was dressed in ropes of
pearls as large as pigeons’ eggs, with her
front hair in a crown of the same quality.
The musical McQuades were in front seats.
As usual, conductor Gonsalez allowed late-
comers to bump his back as they squeezed
past into their stalls.
Florence Beliagg, only daughter of the
Elizabeth Bay household, has said “I will”
to J. A. Ellison, of the 2nd Australian Fly-
ing Squadron, Melbourne. The wedding
party was at the Australia.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS L™
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS, SILVERSMITHS.
SILVER PHOTOGRAPH FRAMES.
Plain Round Silver Photograph
Frame, with Oak Back. Photo
space, Sfin.
10/-
The Company has a large stock of Photograph
Frames in Solid Silver, Bronze and Feather, to
which regimental badges can be affixed.
In Solid Silver, Photo. Space 3| x 24 inches ..
In Bronze, Photo. Space 5i x 3 J inches
In Leather, Photo. Space 4x3 inches...
£2 15 0
£l2 0
8 0
SELECTIONS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL.
Five Per Cent. Discount Allowed on All Cash
Transactions.
Orders by Mail Receive Careful and Prompt
Attention.
Plain Oval Silver Photograph Frame,
with Oak Back.
Photo. Space, 6§ x 4jin.
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY & BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON W.
THE ENSIGNETTE
Is the Soldier’s Camera.
IT’S BRITISH-MADE.
I 5 iiii
in mp
1 HOUGHTONS
Iv 'i
mmj
v,
If you wish to make a present to a friend who is going- to the Front, _ give him
a Vest Pocket Ensignette Camera. It will enable him to secure pictures of
scenes which he will cherish ifi the years to come —he will be able to show his
children, and perhaps his children’s "children, the exact spot where he won his
D.C.M. or V.C.
It is small and compact, can be carried in the vest or coat pocket, where it will
also act as a shield. The body" is made of Rustless Metal.
It can be loaded or unloaded in daylight, and the films developed in a tank in
daylight.
A Leatherette Case is supplied --with each Camera, also Book of Instructions.
No. i takes pictures 2%in. x l%in 27/6
No. 2 takes plctur es 3in. x 2in 35/-
For your own use, the Vest Pocket Ensignette will prove itself a friend that you
will never be without. On week-end or holiday trips you will often secure pictures
that would be missed if you had to set up your stand camera. If a scene bursts
on your view unexpectedly, just whip out your Ensignette and it is only the work
of a second to open it and take your picture.
If you cannot call and see them, send for our general catalogue.
The Hou. to for British-made Cameras,
Photograph ic & Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEOtSGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
<and Wellington , N.Z.
fdf
sfd
n
n
fee
I
7
—and now for the Pianola ’ Piano
If you are fond of music and wish
to enjoy it in your home, why
not seriously consider the acquisi-
tion of a Genuine Pianola Piano.
<jf Just think when dinner is over at
night, the pleasure of rising from the
table with the words —“and now for the
Pianola Piano” Consider the delight
it would afford each member of your
family and the friends tha drop in
after dinner.
€| We want you to accept our invita-
tion to call in and inspect our stock of
Genuine Pianola Pianos
(STEINWAY, STECK, STROUD,
AEGLIAN & WEBER PIANOS).
You can sit down and play a model your-
self without the slightest trouble.
Pianola Pianos can be purchased for a
deposit of £lO and the balance in easy
monthly payments.
Call at our Address or fill in this Coupon,
and we will send you full particulars.
TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY
Please send me catalog and 'price list of
PIANOLA PIANOS, showing how I can pur-
chase an instrument for cash or easy terms, and
what alloivance you can make on my present
piano, which is a
bought about
Name
Address
Pianola CompanyPty. Ltd.
384 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE* ADELAIDE.
sdf
df


r-
SASJ/M
Coming Summer Days
Beginning with the materials which are chosen for smartness
and dependability, Farmer’s Victor Summer Clothing, in
popular two-piece models, have all the faultless ! cut and
finish desired by men of g-ood business and social standing;
and, furthermore, Victor two-piece Suits are Keen in Price,
in keeping with Farmer’s policy of best value always—so
that here are Suits that are light as a breeze and as cool
to wear, at a price well within your reach.
PRS3. —IN ASSAM SILK (as illustration). Sac
Coat and Trousers, single-breasted, patch pockets, soft
roll collar; two- or • three-button fronts. Trousers with
side and hip pockets, loops for belt, cuff bottoms.
Price - 55/-
Same model in heavy-weight Tussore Silk —-
Prices: 60/-, 65/-, 75/- and 84/-
Farmer’s Pan Carriage on these Suits to any Address in
Australia.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
Missing: Friends.
rpOM JONES, formerly groom to T. C.
JL O’Brien, will hear something to his
advantage by communicating with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS &
AGENCY QO.. 85 Queen Street. Melbourne.
j F ROLFE FRANCIS LOWNDES LORRAINE, eldest
son of the late John Rice Lorraine, Surgeon, will
communicate with the Rev. Father Eugene and
Poynton and Bellord, Solicitors, he will hear of
something to his advantage under Will of Bessie
Lowndes Humphrey, widow, deceased. Forward
papers at once.
MRS. MARIA BRENNAN, now or formerly of
Bischoff, Tasmania, is requested to communicate
with W. Carpenter & Sons, Solicitors, 5 Laurence
Pountney Lane, Cannon Street, London, England.
When tt corne9 to selecting a
Tractor for use on the farm
there should be no difficulty, for
the I H C 8/16 Mogul so far
out*c!asses all competition as to
simplify the task of selection.
Most important among its many
advantages over others is
Proved reliability under Australian
conditions. A large number of them
now at work in the Commonwealth,
some of them more than a year, and
every owner delighted
Will get an exceptional amount of
power out of low grade kerosene—
hence very low fuel cost.
Give an immediate start on about a
half pint of benzine.
Exceptionally well constructed, caus*
ing less loss of time and less expense
for spare parts.
Unusually handy to work—turns in a
20 ft. circle.
Can be used nearly the year around,
and on all kinds of farm work.
Helps to make up for the shortage of
men, and supplies power cheaper
than horses.
Your farming operations will show
you a largely increased profit if you
use one intelligently.
Send for particulars.
International Harvester Company
of Aus. Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne
Adelaide Perth—Launceston I
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, sth October, 1916.
Tenders for the Supply of Electric Light
Machinery for Quarantine Boarding
Launch, Brisbane.
riIENDERS are invited subject to the con-
ditions of tender, until 12 noon on Mon-
day, 13th November, 1916, for the supply of
Electric Light Machinery for Quarantine
Boarding Launch, Brisbane. Delivery to be
made c.i.f. Brisbane.
Tender form, specifications and any fur-
ther particulars may be obtained from the
Director of Navy Contracts, or at the Naval
Staff Offices. Brisbane, Edgecliff (Sydney),
Port Adelaide, Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. .TENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
xMelbourne, October 10, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Fashion was lame at the Guineas at Caul-
field on Saturday. There was a moderately-
large crowd, but most of the women were
covered simply like pianos. Here and there
a light-hearted youngster had got herself up
like a fashion-plate; but you had to look for
her. One miss was arrayed in old-fashioned
snuff-colored silk bunched up at the back.
The hat was a good old “pork-pie.” One of
the Watson girls wore a real crinoline cov-
ered with hundreds of little grey glace frills.
A group of pretty Western District flappers
relied on weird hats to get them noticed.
One, in grey check tweeds, wore a black
belltopper. Another had scarlet zigzagged
on to a white transparent leaf. They all
wore their flare skirts like circus riders and
high boots of elaborate design. Mrs. Nox*-
man Falkiner had a fiat black silk hat
painted with brilliant birds. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald wore Futurist headgear with
black and pink-silk stripes travelling from
ear to ear. The stripes were two inches
wide and the hat was 30in. in circumfer-
ence. The rest of her elaborate oufit was
white. A neat, navy-tailored girl wrnlked
with her as a rest for the eye. The terrace
of the grandstand was glorified with huge
tubs of white azaleas, which helped to show
off the gay rags.
Sam Mackay disguised himself with a
budding moustache, and wore lily-(A-the-
valley in his buttonhole. Mrs. Sam was not
in evidence. Mrs. H. K. S. Ward walked
under blue leaves climbing on a hat like a
black chimney capped with cabbage-roses.
Mrs. Purves’s hat kept to the horizontal, and
had mud-colored roses. The hats are truly
marvellous this year. The women are stick-
ing to sombre tailor-made clothes, but they
wear all sorts of wild dreams on their heads.
Squatter MacLeod escorted his sister, who
had a huge greengage plum on her hat. Mrs.
Dickenson (Mt. Lyell) sported two pretty
olive branches and a pink hat. The Widdis
and Mills Gippsland partnership threw their
crowns in the air when Ettefred got away
with the Guineas.
The grandstand and lawn was a mushroom
bed of umbrellas several times during the
changeable day. Crowds of the social also-
rans did not turn up. They are waiting for
the Caulfield Cup and its sunny-blue
weather.
“Guineas Night,” at Her Majesty’s, made
a packed and joyous house. The dress-circle
was pink with the best shoulders and necks
and the stalls were studded with the well-
groomed heads of fashionable dames and the
shirtfronts of their wage-earners. The boxes
were • nearly all occupied by men who had
raced and dined together. L. •K. S. Mac-
kinnon was in the stalls with a bunch of
soft-frocked womenkind. Mrs. Buchanan
sat in black velvet, with her husband. Mrs.
I lorsfall, in deep mourning, came with the
little Australian-French nurse who is Cap-
tain Fefgusson. The squatting Grants from
up Stawell way made a bright patch of color
with their gaily-frocked girls. All the sweet
young things in the audience were entranced
with the crinoline ballet. The frocking in
“The Cinema Star” is of the day-after-to-
morrow, and “just too fascinating” in these
drab times. Florence Young climbs out of
melon-colored tulle in one act. Minnie
Love’s tulle dress for the Baby Doll song has
white frills which turn up and down and go
criss-cross. The detail is outlined by loose
strings of jet beads, and there is a petticoat
of sparse jet fringe after the tulle furbelows
end. The Honolulu ballet is evidently what
decided Melba to book her passage. The
setting is entrancing. A white satin spooky
Pierrette ballet is backed by illimitable
space. Even the black-velvet hangings are
shadowed, and the wdiite-satin girls do their
gymnastic dances on the edge of the world.
Slim Ethel Cadman has her chance with
modern-frilled frocks. She moves in the
centre of oceans of outstanding frills. Florrie
Young, in another act, uses up yards of pink
glace for her gown, and punctuates it with a
garden full of pink cabbage-roses. She is
also a good deal taller than a white and blue
creation which she wears, and her arms are
bare as a boxer’s.
Moleswortli Greene is dead at just-on 90.
The wonderfully robust old squatter was
game to the last. He came to town for
the Show, but fell ill very suddenly during
the visit and died at the South Yarra house
of son Pomeroy, far from Greystanes, the
Bacchus Marsh palace-home he had built
in the very early days. In spite of his
great age the old man kept to his early-
rising habits. He had a den which he called
liis “workshop,” and which he used mostly
for interviewing his managers and overseers
and making them walk the chalk-line. And
a very rigid line it was; for Molesworth
Greene was an old-fashioned Tory, and all
his opinions were armor-plated. He would
tut about the run on horseback or behind
a high-stepper in a dogcart, and the Earth
would have to stop before the handsome old
boss would neglect to get into correct din-
ner dress in the evenings. Fellow-members
of the Melbourne Club acted as his pall-
bearers. Major Kerr-Pearse represented
the absent G.-G.
Mrs. Archie Alger, from Ceylon, gave a
sumptuous party the other night. She was
formerly Lassie Forbes, a Melbourne girl
whose good looks and Junoesque figure re-
peatedly got her jobs in private theatricals
and tableaux. Now she and her husband
grow elephants or moonstones or something
in the hills of Ceylon. Her pals responded
gamely to her invitation, and occupied a
third of the stalls of the Theatre Royal to
watch Hale Hamilton and Myrtle Tannehill
while waiting for supper at the Savoy,
which had been faked up to look like Indian
jungle infested with white-faced waiters in
Indian clothes. If anyone begged them to
black their faces they didn’t do it. The
menu _ included devilled guavas, stewed ele-
phant’s heel, and cocoanut curry, and a
party of vaudeville artists from the Bijou
threw in a turn when there was a pause in
the conversation. The Savoy almost became
a cabaret for the time being. The hostess
smiled in a smart pink dress whilst dainty
little Mrs. Guy Sherwood sported a red
opera cloak scrambled over with gold bro-
cade. Creswicks, Dalrymples and Robbs
were amongst the revellers.
_ Dr. Barrett’s name has been little heard
since the fuss in Egypt; and now we know
what the medico lias been doing to keep so
quiet. He has been catching flies. Lady
Helen lately received from him a sample of
his latest invention. Pharaoh would have
been able to do with less fan-hands if he
had possessed one.
Griffin, the un-Yankeelike Yank imported
to lay-out the Federal capital, is remodelling
a big eaf<§ in Collins street. In his private
practice Griffin works with his wife and her
brother, and the partnership is a happy one.
Mrs. Griff, is Melbourne’s second she-archi-
tect, the other being Muriel Scott, an Aus-
tralian girl. The decoration of the cafe will
be something absolutely new to Melbourne,
and for this part of it Miss Murphy will
surely catch a cheer from the critics.
Mrs. Woolcott is abroad again with a
mended ankle and a pink flapper hat. The
next big raid of the Buttoners she leads is
due on Friday, October 20, and will help
all the hospitals.
Owing to the crowd of race functions,
Mrs. Barlow has put back her party at the
Repertory Club to the first week in Decem-
ber.
These clever war nurses of ours gain
stars and crowns, but their rank carries no
extra pay, which is a pity if not an injus-
tice. Australian Rose Quarterman, who
has made a name for herself since the start
of the war, has just returned to England
as matron-in-charge of six sisters. She
proudly wears the crown of a major on her
shoulder, but there is no major’s pay in her
pocket. Sister Rose is the daughter of the late
squatter John Quarterman. Her mother is
80 years of age, one of Toorak's grand old
dames and the Australian-born daughter of
squatter Moodie, of South Brighton station,
which sits on the Mackenzie River, in the
Western District. She remembers the first
Germans that came into Victoria overland
from South Australia and settled on the
Moodie run. The invaders rolled over the
horizon in big white waggons, and the squat-
ter’s Slaughter has a vivid memory of a fat
German pushing a plough which was pulled
by the family cow and the farmer’s frau
harnessed together. That was a primitive
endurance test, but the watcher almost bet-
tered it at SO by standing outside the Fort
Melbourne pier gates from 11 o’clock till
five on the off-chance of having a farewell
handshake with her daughter.
“Captain” Fergusson isn’t a new Gent-
help, but a little fair nurse who is home on
furlough. She claims to have been the first
Australian nurse in France, where she has
been at work for two years with the Duchess
of Sutherland’s French hospital.
Rosemary Leveson-Gower (you say that
as if it was blood) was Nurse Fergusson’s
Y.A.D. That means that the Duchess’s
daughter had to scrub floors and do ward-
chores for her. They were located at
Dunkirk and had visits from lots of
people who are in the front seats of
history. The King of Belgium and the
Duke of Teck were two who used to drop
in occasionally for tea. Captain Fergusson
put in some of her spare time growing vege-
tables and flowers: asters and daisies in one
plot and lettuce and radishes in another.
One gathers from the little nurse that there
was rivalry between the Sutherland hospital
and the one established later by the Dudley
countess.
Balsillie, the rain-coaxer, is back on the
Block again, and showing the very latest
Central Australian fashions. Striped grey
“lustre” suiting, camel’s-breath socks and ox-
blood kid shoes are, I judge, what’s worn
“inside.”
Lieut. Stan Ricketson having cabled to
his war-bride to meet him in London, the
tall lady, accompanied by sister-in-law Yal-
dene Ricketson, lias gone to join the war-
rior.
Rupert Clarke, who is busy at transport
work somewhere, was last week promoted
to the rank of grandfather. Daughter Poss
did it. The new recruit is a son.
Local flappers wailed loudly when the
wretched rain washed the Scots' College
sports right on to the date fixed by Mel-
bourne Grammar. Some young things were
reduced to tears before choosing between the
sisterly duty of watching a brother dash
round the arena or cheering a best male
chum on to victory with the Scots. Long-
legged, dutiful daughters were dragged along
by the family to see the son of the house
leap and run, but damsels of spirit just
went where they listed. The younger gene-
ration have troubles of their own.
In the English officers’ rest homes the
pretty-girl volunteer-nurses don’t get within
yards of the heroes. They mostly work in
the humble seclusion of the kitchen. One
day an attractive Australian girl somehow
managed to understudy an elderly dame who
usually carried in a tray of teacups. The
entry created a tremendous sensation in the
ward. After a breathless and astonished
silence, every patient implored her to step
along his way amidst notes of admiration
and interrogation. But before the gratified
visitor had time to take her pick she was
discovered and shooed out by the angry
chieftainess, who warned her not to repeat
the offence under pain of instant dismissal.
It’s like an Arabian Nights tale told back-
wards.
The Engineers are comforted by a com-
mittee which has its headquarters at the
Engineers’ Depot in Alexandra Avenue and
has been doing solid work for a couple of
years. Mrs. G. F. Wilkinson is president.
Miss Claridge is secretary and Major
Sheldon’s wife looks after the cash, of
which there is never enough. But if money
is scarce willing fingers are fairly numerous,
and the hard-toiling sapper, grubbing in
muck and awful danger, sends them his
blessing from a country which one of them,
after a week’s hard rain, calls Flounders.
In the latest
call-up, the adorers
of Walter Kirby
dreaded his fate
when affairs reached
section K. They
feared that hard-
hearted Authori-
ties would parade
the plump tenor
stripped of all
adornment except
his Godiva mous-
tachios and a
shower of silvery
notes. In the pre-
bellum year, the
tenor blushingly
admitted 2!) years.
Now the awful fact
is laid bare that
Kirby is facing the 40 hurdle. So the
plump parade is postponed.
The Victorian Artists’ much-postponed
pageant play is to hit Melbourne in the
interval between the Cups—October 27 and
28. At The Playhouse, of course.
The Pageant people are dealing out
tickets for a fund-gathering dinner party at
the Oriental on October 20. It is difficult to
enrol men for the tables. The other day
when some women tried to persuade one of
Sassiety’s short-haired pets to appear in
their set, “Oh!” he moaned, “Ai couldn't!
One nevah dines now, you know. Whai, I
don’t think I could even find a clean collar.”
_ Bright rose pink is “in” again, and the
girl with a decent complexion is revelling
in it. The gladdest bud in the bunch is the
brunette with a peaehes-and-cream cheek, a
cream neck and a pink kitten ribbon round
her throat. Pale darlings and blondes can
only look on enviously.
Sister Adelaide’s historical notes—
The Eight Hours holiday was celebrated chiefly at
the S.A.J.C. race-meeting, which was continued
from the previous Saturday. .Side attractions were
the Strathalbyn Show, the, usual procession and
family outings to the hills and the seaside. The Gov-
ernor escaped by leaving’ for Melbourne, aided by
Private Secretary Winser and W. J. Gunson. His
Ex. on his return will travel per river steamer
as far as Murray Bridge after having inspected the
Victorian irrigation settlements with the walking-
delegate of the Governors’ Union in Vic.
The Cheer-Up Society is adding a billiard-room
to its Hut near the City Baths. The foundation
was set by Lady Galway on Tuesday morning in
the presence of donors of cement, gravel, sand,
metal, cash and other materials. The cost of con-
struction will be further reduced by volunteer labor.
C. T. McGlew, S.A.’s consul for Russia, who
enlisted in December as a' private, has advanced to a
commission, via Duntroon. He is on duty at the
Murray Bridge camp. Another recent recruit is F.
Bennett, a St. Peter’s College master, who has gone
to join the forces in his own State (Tasmania).
South Aus. civil servants have blazoned a great
example by subscribing, up to the end of August,
over £31,000 to patriotic funds. From the Public
Service Patriotic Fund came over £14,000; from
the Public School Teachers’ Fund, £6643 ; from
the Police Fund, nearly £3000; and from the
Railway Officers’ Fund, £7678.
Surgeon-Major Jeffries, of Woodville, has got his
D.S.O. He left as a captain with the Field Ambu-
lance in the 2nd Expeditionary Force, was wounded
and mentioned in despatches at Gallipoli, and
gained his majority and his decoration in France.
Manufacturers’ Week is “off” this year. However,
that won’t stop us adding an item to our list of
local industries. The Repatriation Committee of the
State War Council is buying a toy-making business
to open up employment for returned soldiers. The
idea is to give instruction to men who will make
the trade their permanent occupation.
Dr. Helen Sexton arrived by the Medina on
Thursday and went on to Melbourne by express. Dr.
Helen is said to be the only woman (exclusive of
royalty) who has presented a British decoration to
a French soldier, a ceremony which she performed
when she was in charge of the Australian Hospital
at Auteuil. The Countess of Glasgow, who is bound
for Maoriland, where her lord once held a job as
Governor, was a passenger by the same boat. She
spent an hour or so at Government House before
sailing again in the mailboat.
A letter from Bertram Mackennal says definitely
that there can be no King Edward Memorial till
after the war. He had said so before, but the local
committee urged him to see if the difficulty couldn’t
be overcome. His reply is that all bronze foundries
are making munitions and are controlled by the War
Office. So we must wait for our statue.
Joan Dow, who was with Lady Dudley’s Aus-
tralian Hospital in France and afterwards at the
British Red Cross Hospital at Netley, has been sent
to the Contracts Department of the War Office. Her
sister, who is also a nurse, was recently mentioned
in despatches.
Private L. E. Pearce, of the A.M.C., a grandson
of the discoverer of the Boulder and Ivanhoe Gold
Mines, has died in England of meningitis, contracted
while on duty at a military hospital.
The report that S'ergeant Jacob, who won his
medal at Pozieres, was missing apparently came
from the Intelligence Department, because the ser-
geant is in hospital in England.
Four Australian-born Germans (brothers) have
announced their objection to take up arms against
the country of their parents, a delicacy of feeling
which didn’t prevent the quartette drawing salaries
from the State Treasury before and since the war
broke out.
Mr. J. D. Johnston, chairman of the Onkaparinga
Racing Club, who had been ill for some time, died
on Friday.
The late Chief Justice Way’s old home, Montefiore,
in North Adelaide—splendidly situated but out of
date —seems to have found a real owner at last. The
notorious Paul Joseph bought it first, but it was
quickly in the market again, and passed to Vincent
Zed, a Syrian financier who has been making money
in S.A. lately. Within a month he turned it over
at a profit, and now it has been sold again to Harold
Fisher, an Adelaide merchant, son of the better-
known Joseph Fisher, of the olcl-time Register pro-
prietary.
This may help to explain the floods.
Canon Drought has been a prisoner in hos-
pital lately. The poor old churchman has
been most seriously ill and only left Mel-
bourne last week by motor for a conva-
lescence at Mofnington.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


ƒd
DEWARS
In the case of Whisky the
General Verdict is in favour
of Dewar’s on three counts,
MELLOWNESS —PURITY
RELIABILITY
Mellowness. That alluring perfection
of flavour that begets the happy smile of
appreciation. Dewar’s never robs one of
pleasure —be the anticipation never so great,
its charm of flavour is elusive and exclusive
—soft, rich and yet crisp.
Purity. The safeguard of health and the
rock on which the reputation of Dewar’s
stands. It is this domination of Purity in
all the stages of preparation that makes
Dewar's the Aristocrat of Whiskies whose
companionship is ever a source of unceasing
delight and happiness.
Reliability is the crowning virtue . of
Dewar’s. All its merits in Distillation,
Blending, Purity, Age and Flavour contribute
to this one great end: —that no matter when
or where you buy Dewar’s you can, without
any fear of disillusionment, rely on an unvary-
ing measure of rarest pleasure that makes
Dewar’s a perfect treasure.


Martin’s Pills are sold by \Y. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
TI?E,
*
: :
fL.fPlft&i
mmnfOm* Etta,
. yr~-
r^-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £610,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: .JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; EDWARD TRENCH ARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
11. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate. E.C.
King George IV
u
TH E TO PNOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Pick”: The most untamable outlaw is
the renegade thoroughbred horse. At Iviandra
(N.S.W.) a blood filly once eloped with the kings
of the mountain brumbies, and for two years evaded
every effort to coax her back to civilisation. Then
George Harris, the horse-tamer of that rough
country, built a trap-yard with half-mile wings,
and planned to earn the standing reward offered for
the runaway. On a favorable opportunity he rushed
her mob down between the converging fences and
into the 12ft. yard at the other end. But whilst
he galloped into Iviandra for his tackling, another
i hap who wanted the reward called at the yard.
In three acts he outed a brumby, peeled him, and
twisted a halter out of his hide. Then he wrestled
IDENTIFICATION.
THE G ADDER: “Tell
your mistress I shall
give her a call to-
morrow.”
THE JEWEL (fresh
from the back-
blocks): “Orright.
Any pertickler
coo-ec, mum?”
with the filly until she broke away and dived out
of sight through the jungles. She was never again
taken, though for years the district’s sole idea of
sport was to organise hunting parties to run the
wild mare that carried a gnarled rope of dried
horsehide attached to her head.
“Wandi”: Binghi at bis dinner is an
edifying spectacle. Wearing nothing but his skin,
as a rule, he squats with his feet doubled under him,
holding the ’possum leg in his hands and tearing the
flesh off with his fangs. A little fire burns near
him, on which a portion of the banquet is still cook-
ing-, and which he or Mrs. Binghi, who squats near,
tends from time to time. Much of the food is eaten
half raw. His dogs, a regiment of them, crowd
round the boss during the feast, sometimes snatch-
ing a bone from his mouth. They also share his
gunyah and his bed, and he appreciates the warmth
of their bodies on a cold night. Some dogs snore
terribly; others are all night scratching themselves;
some are given to barking and hunting imaginary
wallabies in their sleep. But Binghi is used to all
that. He loves his dog, and cuddles the pups in his
arms. He keeps all that come, and should the
mother die the little orphans are reared with tender-
est care, often on the woman’s breast. I once saw
a gin sitting in a gunyah suckling a piccaninny at
one breast and a pup at the other.
“E.S.S.”: A flock of bloodstained cocka-
toos (or little corellas) at a watering-place would
strike a towny with astonishment. They come in at
sundown to a regular camping-place, generally near
a big waterhole in a creek, called a cockatoo hole.
Here one may see flocks approximating 100,0’00
birds, and the ear-splitting row they make would pre-
vent one hearing a coo-ee at 10 yards from their
perching trees. Favorite holes were Burke and
Wills’s Depot and at Burke’s Tree, the latter one of
the most beautiful spots on Koopa Creek (“Cooper’s
Creek” on the map). Burke’s Tree, a straggling
coolabah, railed in, is 20 miles from the depot, about
200 yards off the main Innamincka-road, and 150
yards from the water —a hole teeming with fish. It
is a great picnic resort of the local people, who say
that Burke’s body was found under it, covered over
with wood in accordance with the aboriginal burial
custom. Twigs are carried away from it by the
drovers for their best girls to make penhandles.
About these cockatoo holes iii the breeding
season black brother reaps a rich harvest. Day after
day he returns to camp with dillybags filled with
eggs and young birds. Great numbers of birds are
knocked out of the packed trees, and also killed
on the wing, with boomerang and waddy, though
Binghi’s most successful bags are made with a drop
net, which is used at the water when the birds
swoop down to drink.
“Seety”: I will guarantee to discourage
“Inver G.’s” moths and silverfish. Let him continue
to use pepper, but let it be black pepper. He may
use white pepper till the bottle-ohs at the Front nest
again without interfering with the pests’ digestive
organs. I had an Indian rug that had battalions
of moths and silvers operating on it, but after I had
bombarded them several times with brunette pepper
the blighters surrendered.
“Y.Z.” : Billy went to the war, he said on
starting, to get away from Cows. He was back
and in civilian costume once more, but minus the
right hand, and he was hanging about Melbourne and
rather miserable. “There’s not much without a ’and,”
he told me. I spoke of the new artificial ones, and
explained the marvellous things they can do. Billy’s
face brightened visibly. A great hope shone in his
eyes. “Gorstruth!” he said, “could a man milk
with ’em ?”
WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
THE DRUNK'S FRIEND: “Hullo! you seem to have been having a good night.”
THE DRUNK: “Glorioush, ol' fl’ah. Met a very deah friendsh from the country. Took
me in, shoutsh sheventeen whiskies (hie) straight off th’ reel. A n’ look 'ere, I
could have ( hie ) had a skinful if I’d liked.”
“Toby C.” : The roan cow was reported to
have calved in the river paddock and I was des-
patched to find and bring home the mother a"d
infant. Ma was soon located, but a three-hour
search failed to reveal the offspring. I brought the
old lady home and put in the next three days
searching the 40-acre plot. On the fourth day I
continued the chase accompanied by the cow, but
she appeared to have no recollection of the affair
and failed to locate the poddy. Accepting the
matter as a mystery I tossed it. Nine days later
I struck the little stranger, alive and well, after
13 days without refreshment from mother. There
were no othef cattle on the run ; only two yearling colts
and a swamp to soothe the pangs of hunger. I am
busy learning the cow language in order to find
out how the little one managed.
# # * *
“Yancy” : Is there a better bushie’s stove
than the plain oildrum? Cut the top out of the
receptacle, knock a few holes in the bottom, and place
two wires crosswise at the top to hold the billy and
grill the chop. With the aid of a tin-opener or a
knife make two vertical cuts of three or four inches
close to the bottom. These cuts should be about 6in.
apart. Next, cut across and pull the piece down.
This will do for the toast or the devilled herrings. If
people only knew the delicacy of herrings toasted
this way there would be an oildrum stove in every
home in Australia.
* * * , *
“Tasman”: “C.H.F.” (B. 21/9/’lt>) asks
if anyone can tell him how to get rabbits out of
river flats and banks. Digging, as he says, is far
too costly. Besides, it’s quite unnecessary, unless
“C.H.F.” likes the exercise. There are two or three
other methods. Ferrets are very satisfactory, pro-
vided the bunnies are lodging in warrens. If
“C.H.F.” finds ferrets too exciting he can try
one of the sulphurous preparations that are injected
through the front door with the idea of “gassing”
the inhabitants. After the operation the hole is
blocked up and the tenant is left in a ready-made
grave. But by this method one doesn’t get the skin ;
and the skin is a consideration when prices are
high. If these plans don’t suit, what's the matter
with trapping? That’s sure enough and simple
enough for anyone. If “C.H.F.” uses ferrets he
will of course need nets or a gun.
“Till”: King Billy should be proud o£
two of his subjects on Lee Ste'ere's Belele station, in
the Murchison district of W.A. There the fleece is
being clipped from 30,000 sheep and the wool-class-
ing is being done by a Binghi maiden who was reared
on the station. By golly, she is an expert at the
business. Also, a blackfellow chauffeur drives the
HEADQUARTERS PULL.
BILL (meeting a former station boss peeling
spuds): "Hallo, Mister Barrett, didn’t
know you was joined up. ’Ow did yer
get on ter that job?”
MISTER BABBETT: “Oh, just influence, just
influence, Bill!”
boss around when the run needs inspecting. What
this Binghi doesn’t know about a Ford car isn’t
likely to be picked up outside the peace-crank's
factory.
(Continued on page 24 .)
THE WINKLE AND THE TAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stand clear, periwinkle, and give a poor tar
A chance to get in his an-ke-ar,
For the grog’s all swiped,
And the bosun’s piped
All hands to haul on the ankar.
It's asking too much of a deepsea tar
To haul both you and the ank-e-ar.
With half the crew jugged,
And some of them slugged,
There’s few to heave on the ankar.
There once was a winkle wot went so far
That he wouldn't leave go of the ank-e-ar,
So we took him down
To old London town,
Where the fogs choked him on his ankar.
And there was a winkle wot clung to the bar,
To the bar of the old tramp’s ank-e-ar,
And he frizzed away
In the sun’s hot ray,
So his gridiron it was the ankar.
But they wasn’t as heavy as you by far,
Else we couldn’t have raised the ank-e-ar.
Oh, blow winds, blow,
He’s give us a show —-
The winkle is free of the ankar.
MAORILAND.
HERBERT BARR.


Why Not Lighten the Burden?
If von are really in earnest about economy why not start to save on your
clothing Growling at the Government or the Taxation Commissioners won t
lightenyour burden— and/ mind you, you can make a real saving if you wear
fd
At
63/“
Suit-to-
measure
we offer a fine range of
Black and Blue Pencil
Stripes, also plain Dark
Grey Vicunas. Shall we
post you patterns?
A Murdoch
Suit to measure
The standard of these Suits is so far
above what you usually associate with
Suits at such a low price that the value
is really extraordinary. We take the
risk of pleasing you —satisfaction or
your money back —that’s our guarantee.
ORDER YOUR
SUIT TO-DAY.
A fine range of Summer Suitings to
choose from —call and see them to-day
or write Desk E for patterns.
DESK R.
;] tessrs. Murdoch’s In Parle Street Ltd.,
Sydney.
Please forward patterns of Summer
Suitings at suit-to-measure, with
tape and self-measurement forms.
I
NAME
ADDRESS
MURDOCH’S
in Park Street Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Where the Good Hats are .
There will be a Deafening
and Thundering “YES”
when the people of Australia are asked to answer a burning
question: Are Nelson’s still the leaders in the Soda-Fountain
business?
m
o
Proud to be where distinguished
patronage has placed us.
Keen to maintain the lead. Anxious
to give absolute satisfaction.
Guarding our position jealously with
the fortifications of civility, attention
to detail, quickness of despatch.
Armed with these qualifications we
seek your order.
“Anything from a straw to a Soda
Fountain.”
Here is an illustration of one of our
many beautiful Draft Standards. 've
have the largest stock of this particu-
lar line in Australia. A range that
will suit the most fastidious. A price
that will suit the humblest purse.
Draft Arms from £3.
Nelson’s famous Iceless Interiors,
built on scientific lines by skilled
mechanics. An article of htelong
durability. • After years of close study
and experience we stand masters ot
this art. Don’t buy goods that are
being built in the experimental stage;
buy from NELSON’S. The firm with
a reputation and a guarantee behind
it.
Iceless Interior, complete with 0
pumps and all necessary equip-
ment, £5O.
.Our speciality,
NELSON’S TRUE
FRUIT SYRUPS.
Only the choicest fruits used in the
manufacture of our high-class Syrups.
They tickle the palate. They are
wholesome and delicious.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
(The House of Quality), 219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE: FLEMING H. MOGG, Preston House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: SILAS H. MARTIN, “The Ritz,” King William Street.
PPPth • A B. HADDEN, William Street.
NEW ZEALAND: BANNATYNE & HUNTER LTD., Wakelield & Allen Sts., Wellington.
The Utmost Delights in Motoring
Are Given by the Mitchell Six, the Master Car
YOU can lean back comfortably in the deep upholstery of the Mitchell
with full confidence in the entire reliability of its six-cylinder
engine, and give yourself up completely to the enjoyment of the
landscape gliding past. In the Mitchell you experience the exhilaration
and pleasure of motoring in fullest measure. The hills seem to
melt away before you. Never is your delight marred by any de c-iency
in the engine or the car. Its magneto ignition is unfailing; its whole
mechanism is efficient.
You pass over rough roads without in the least feeling the rough-
ness, for the Bate cantilever springs make the car ride easily and
smoothly. The engine is responsive, flexible, obedient to your slightest
wish. Every joy that motoring can give is brought you by the Mitchell.
The sheer beauty of its lines charms you. You appreciate the conveni-
ences it possesses-engine-driven tyre pump, electric lighting, self-starter,
ample roominess, due to its long, 125-inch wheelbase.
The cost of upkeep is low; the car has run 26f miles to the gallon
of benzine under official observation. Yet the price is moderate. The
Mitchell costs considerably more in America than any ear selling here at
the same price.
Call for a demonstration of this master car, and in the meantime
write for full specifications.
F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland
Agents for Victoria and Tasmania: JAS. A. MUNRO & CO., 493-503 Elizabeth Street, Melbonrne.
Agents for South Australia: ORCHARD RALPH & CO., Victoria Street, Adelaide.
Agents Z "r™- N“rSa;^NGL^'^Os! s wSL g ton. Tuth Island HAMLET A TENCH, !«« Than, Street, Christchurch.


MAGNESIA FOR DYSPEPSIA.
SPECIALIST RECOMMENDS IT
INSTEAD OF DRUGS.
“Only those in constant touch with
sufferers from indigestion and dyspepsia
can fully realise the harm done by the im-
proper use of drugs and artificial digest-
ants,” remarked an eminent specialist
recently. “Personally I rarely advocate the
use of drugs in the treatment of digestive
or stomach troubles, for in practically every
instance I have proved the underlying cause
to be excessive acidity of the stomach and
consequent fermentation of the food con-
tents. Therefore, in place of the once
ividely-used drugs I invariably recommend
the use of magnesia to neutralise the acidity
and stop the food fermenting, and the
excellent results I have obtained during the
past three years convince me that there is
no finer treatment for indigestion, dyspep-
sia, etc. It must, of course, be clearly
understood that I do not employ or advise
the use of such forms of magnesia as cit-
rates, acetates, sulphates, etc.—these would
often do more harm than good ; nothing but
lisurated magnesia—the form prescribed by
physicians—should ever be used to neutralise
stomach acids. This is not at all difficult
to obtain —in fact, I find that most chemists
now stock the preparation in tablet form in
addition to the ordinary- powder. Half a
teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in pow-
der form or two compressed tablets taken
with a little water after meals will usually
be found quite sufficient to instantly neutra-
lise the acidity and prevent food fermenta-
tion, thereby ensuring painless, natural
digestion for even chronic sufferers.”— Advt.
“A contented mind is a continual feast”—you get
both when you drink Martell’s Brandy. There are
.no better judges than Britons, and they decide in
favor of Martell’s every time. From George I. to
George 1 . Kartell's has been supreme—not only the
favorite in England but in France as well. It is
superior for social ‘ purposes, and being rich in the
higher ethers is also unequalled in cases of sick-
ness.
MARTELL’S BRANDY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [1
Unsoiled Originals and Perfect Permanent Pen-
copies absolutely ensured to users of Zanetic Sheets.
From Stationers or from S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. ALL BRITISH, and
contains no Foreign Dye.—Advt. ri
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag, or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOtfNTPEM
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
sfd
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COFFINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADEFAIDE.
“D.F.” : If the popularity of “our national
flower’’ is to be judged by the score or so of people
who gathered to hear Director Cronin, of the
Botanical Gardens, and Treasurer Pescott, of the
Wattle League, talk about the plant on Melbourne
Wattle Day, it’s in a bad way. Still, as Pcscott
remarked, even the city people, who a few years ago
knew only two kinds of wattle, the golden and the
silver, are being educated a little. Now you see
in Melbourne on Wattle Day 39 distinct species
of wattle. Most people, too, have learned to
get wattle blossom without tearing half the tree
down. But there’s room for more education, and
Pescott urged that Vic. should copy the Westralian
Act for the protection of native shrubs and flowers.
Director Cronin gave a few useful hints to intending
glowers. He said the broad-leaved wattles would
not stand the smoke and grime of the city. For
instance, the silver wattle, which used to flourish all
along the Yarra banks in the early days, refused to
do any good now. The spiny-leaved wattles were the
ones to grow in and close round Melbourne nowa-
days. Manuring wattles, by the way, is a fatal
mistake; nothing is worse for them than a heavy
dose of stable litter.
* * * *
“Merrigal” : A few old pubs that I didn't
notice in recent lists: At at Lloyd’s, Brougham
Place, Pitt-street, Sydney; Anybody’s Best, between
Moama and Deniliquin (N.S.W.) ; Baal Gammon, Vege-
table Creek; Crooked Tree, Trunkey; Free and Easy,
Gannon’s Forest; Flying Horse, Grafton; Golden
Fiddle, William-street, Sydney; House that Jack
Built, Deniliquin; Maid and Magpie, Wentworth;
Number 7, Wallerawang; Old Tarpaulin, Dandaloo;
Peace and Plenty, Araluen; Pick and Shovel, Ara-
luen ; Poor Man’s Friend, Trunkey ; Rag- and Famish,
North Shore, Sydney; Roadside Necessity, Went-
worth ; Smile of Fortune, Caledonian Lead, Gulgong;
Smiling Morn, King-street, Sydney; The Auld Reekie,
McGuigan’s Lead, Parkes ; The Case is Altered, Braid-
wood ; The Mayflower, Broken Hill; The Land We
Live In, S'ofala ; The Square Man, Tam worth ; Turn
Back, Jemmy, Yanko Run, Jerilderie. Then there
are The Shingle Hut, Carinda, within whose shadows
the numerous graves of knockdowners testify to the
efficacy of the soothing-syrup dispensed in former
days, and The Travellers’ Rest, Wonbobbie, where
Sergeant Tom Wallings (Inspector Goring in Boldre-
wood’s “Robbery Under Arms’’) was shot by a bush-
ranger one midnight in September, 1878.
* * * *
“K.Q.”: Let me come to light with a
dinkum remedy for wheat-rust. Tell ’em to use
“bleached” wheat next time. Hot water and blue-
stone are all right, but there’s nothing wrong with
Nature’s own pickle. Australian sunshine and air-
moisture do the trick with exposed grain. Anyway,
that’s how a number of Tamworth (N.S.W.) farmers
account for the cleanliness of their crops.
NO LINGUIST.
M IMI: “You are ze Anzac, ees it not? An’
you will teach me to spik ze Austra-
lient”
ZE A NZAC: “Well — er—I think you had
better yet a trooper to do that. You see
— er—I am a chaplain.”
THE UNSELFISHNESS OF THE “ANTI.”
YOUNG MAN ON THE SOFA: “Yes, I say what this fellow here says—I’m not going to
send any man away to fight.”
“X.Y.”: Have read many references to
Black Brother’s vegetable menu, but one item has
been omitted. On the North Coast of N. S. Wales
the principal vegetable food of the blacks was towak,
or native yam. Not the little bulbs, or tubers, which
schoolchildren and white cockatoos dig and devour
in the Spring', but large, substantial roots,
not unlike those of the dahlia. This native
food is rapidly becoming extinct. Its habi-
tat was the second-class brush land between
the rich cedar bush and the forest —country
very often covered with myrtle scrub. The
above-ground part of the plant is quite insig-
nificant in appearance; a small vine with
foliage like miniature melon leaves. Under
the soil, close to the surface, a cluster of
large tubers is found under each vine.
When I was a boy, at every ploughing of a
paddock these yams would be turned out in
quantities that were a trouble to clear up.
I have often roasted and sampled the vege-
table and found it by no means unpalatable,
though having a slightly-weedy flavor. Black
Brother was as energetic in the digging of
towak as he was in pursuit of the elusive
and smellful ’possum, or watto, and has left
tangible reminders of his commissariat
activity. A piece of ground which produced
towak can be recognised at once b,y the
presence of roughly-eircular pits about 18in.
in depth and 10ft. or more in diameter.
An area I took up 20 years ago was like an
old diggings or as though it had been shelled
with high explosives. These towak holes
are not to be confused with melon-holes,
crab-holes or gilgais, which are to be found
in wet, rush-covered areas. No bushman
could mistake them; besides, towak • was
never to be found in marshy or swampy
soil. Many years since, during a dry time,
I came upon two men who were prospecting
for water at the edge of a very large area
of swamp country. At 13ft. they came upon
a bed of petrified towalc 18in. to 2ft. in thick-
ness. The tubers were in outward appearance
exactly like those growing in patches of red soil on
ridges in the neighborhood, but they had been con-
verted into solid bluestone so hard that it required a
strong blow with a digging bar to break them. Evi-
dently a big subsidence had formed the swamp basin,
and highly mineralised water had petrified the towak
tubers. I do not know what was the limit of size
attained by towak, but I remember attempting to
transport two large specimens in a two-gallon bucket
and failing to induce the two to remain in the bucket.
“Barcoo”: “Hay” (B. 31/8/’l6) is rash
in declaring that Binglii does not like roast snake,
and prefers gohanna. There are two species of
gohanna in Queensland and Central Aus. —the big,
black, carrion-eating variety and the much smaller
species, of almost variegated hue, with yellow sides
and underparts. This fellow, who is not a car-
rion-eater, is found in shallow burrows in the
sand ridges of the Georgina and the Mulligan,
where Binghi tracks him down, digging him out
with a yam-stick. The local nig refers to this as
the corni, and it is the chosen dish at the banquet.
The big black one is neglected—“ Baal that phello
’tinkin’.” BOt roast snake, when the blacks
flourished on the Warrego, Maranoa and the Barcoo—
not many years ago, either —was preferred to the
luxuries of < ven the shearing-shed and cook’s
galleys.
“Te Babarantiko”: Generally speaking
Black and Brown take a broadminded view of the
little flirtations of their wives (“Ses,” B. 7/9/’l6) ;
but where love-making is crude and direct so is the
settlement. In some parts of the Western and North-
western Pacific the punishment is death, and away
down the Central Pacific, where women now have
some “rights,” mutilation by biting off the nose is
the method whereby the husband expresses disap-
proval. In the Line Islands, in particular, comely
noseless ladies are not at all rare. Nobody minds,
and a noseless young woman possesses the additional
attraction of a visible “past.”
* * * *
“A Borig”: “Nyxn” (B. 21/9/’l6) asks a
question re absence of hares where rabbits abound
which will take some answering. About 1896
80,000 hares were sent away from Nimitybelle
(N.S.W.) and surrounding districts. In 1900 the
rabbits arrived and the hares disappeared. Nobody
knows where they went, but as the rabbits came
from the west the hares might have been expected
to go east. Apparently they did not, or hares
would be pretty numerous on the coast by now.
Some believe that the rabbits killed and perhaps
devoured the hares. Some people will believe any-
thing but the plain unvarnished truth.
* * * *
“Ivaraji”: The fungus forwarded by
“D.Z.” (B. 14/9/’l6) is the same species as that
found upon South American beeches. Chas. Hedley,
of the Australian Museum, pointed that out years
ago in a lecture before the London Linnean Society.
This tree is not the timber commonly known in
commercial circles by that name, although it is a
valuable timber. It exists at Dorrigo (N.S.W.),
and I recently found it in the headwaters of the
Williams and Paterson, where it is called the “mock
cedar.” The settlers never use it except to burn.
It is a magnificent ornamental evergreen, but being
Australian it is, of course, not cultivated.
“The Reefer”: Traditional lore and im-
portant episodes of tribal life are by some Papuan
peoples preserved in pantomimes from generation to
generation. It is great entertainment to watch
“boys” re-acting episodes in their experiences. The
realism and particularity of detail shown in these
performances prove how keen an observer the Papuan
is. I once saw two boys playing “Temptation.” One
represented a kikeni (girl) who was having 40 winks
beside a bush track. The other was returning from
a distant village. As he perceived the sleeping
beauty he loitered contemplatively, arid then, con-
quering his inclinations, resolutely resumed his
journey. Several time he paused, each halt being
longer than the previous one, until his fortitude fail-
ing he turned with an eager, anticipating countenance
and hurried back to where the girl lay in abandoned
sprawl. The buck feverishly pressed his spear into
the sand ready to his hand in case of surprise, and
bent caressingly over the maiden. She suddenly
awoke, gaped momentarily nonplussed at the rogue,
and then vigorously drove both feet against his chest,
knocking him head-over-heels. The audience shrieked
with delight, and the ribald advice to the discouraged
lover would have boiled a billy.
HOME, SWEET HOME.
P ARSON: “And when the shot and shells
were flying about you., didn’t it make
your thoughts turn to home?”
BILLJIM: “By cripes it did, Boss; it was
just like when the missus was goin’
crook.”
“Trafalgar”: I have done an old shearing
hero an injustice. In B. 21/9/’l6 I stated that
“Parkes” Sutherland, of Coolah (N.S.W.), had shorn
over 80,000 sheep. It should have read 300,000.
And I should have added that he has been ringer
in every shed he has shorn in since 1882. As a
penance I am going on a jag for a month.
THE POLITIC PARENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Boggabri lived Mrs. Bunn,
She had a boy—the only one—
Who was, as well she understood,
The terror of the neighborhood.
His misdeeds would a large book fill,
While his good qualities were nil.
Miss Mink called round (it gave her pain,
She said, to do so) to complain
Of Tommy Bunn—he’d stoned her cat,
And broken windows at her flat.
“I’ll punish him,” says Mrs. Bunn,
And stop once and for all his fun!”
Swift she produced a hefty stick,
Which, she opined, would “do the trick.”
“Ml beat him till he’s black and blue—
You’ll watch me doin’ of it, too!
With this, Miss Mink, I’ll whale his hide!”
But mild Miss Mink was horrified.
“Don’t, ma’am, please don’t! I never leant,”
Said she, “towards corp’ral punishment.
“A scolding, a good talking to,
As far as I’m concerned, will do.
“That stick wil! hurt him dreadfully—
Ilis screams and cries of agony
“Will almost, I imagine, reach
From Boggabri to Bondi beach!”
Said Mrs. Bunn: “Don’t worry! Lor’,
I’ve whacked Tom with it oft before.
“To hurt him, though, I never durst—
I alius chloroform him first?”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


—a HUNDRED million guarantees
of Studebaker QUALITY
sdf
SERIES 17
Touring Cars
Roadsters
Vans
F you had a Hundred Million Friends who trusted
you in everything you said and did—friends who
had trusted you tor years —and who expected your
products always to be the best that it’s possible to
pioduce, it is absolutely sure that you d spare no effort and
no expense to keep their faith in you.
It is just that way with Studebaker. hor more than 64 years
it has been Studebaker’s unvarying policy to produce only
the highest-quality products. In that 64 years the name of
Studebaker has come to stand for Quality in the minds of
more than a hundred million of people.
And the sheer business necessity of protecting that great
asset of a hundred million people’s goodwill is the strongest
guarantee of Studebaker Quality that any man can want.
That is the reason, for example, that Studebaker has never
gone into a price-competition on cars. We had to produce
a quality-car first. We must give the public a car that
embodies every engineering improvement up to date.
And that is the reason that, when you buy a Studebaker, you
know that “ —because it’s a Studebaker ” it represents the
highest quality and the biggest value, pound for pound, of the
price, that any manufacturer can possibly give.
We urge you to come in and see the new Series 1 7 Stucle-
bakers and judge for yourself the quality that a Hundred
Million Studebaker Friends insure.
GENERAL DISTRIBUTORS FOR AUSTRALASIA-
Studebaker Corporation
of Australasia Limited
177 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
State importers for Australasia—
VICTORIA—TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA-ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LIMITED, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—W. H. GAHAGAN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND-ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch.


Still Another Merited
Triumph for
Witt’s
Kidney & Bladder
Pills
When the agonising misery of years of
Backache is banished, isn’t that a triumph .
Just simply bowed down with that awful backache, sometimes
a dull, dead ache, at other times a terrible sharp stab, just like
the thrust of a knife. Only those who suffer with agonising back-
ache can understand the meaning of these words.
“I am just an ordinary gas-stoker by trade, and have been a
great sufferer from kidney trouble, which showed itself by severe
pains in the back. These never seemed to leave me day nor mght
for something over three years The misery of it was.awful. \
tried all kinds of remedies without getting any 01 . lfct | 1 . :
took all kinds of medicines, and dm everything that a man could
do who was anxious to get rid of pain. , •
“One dav, when I had almost given up hope of evei benv
cured, I got a box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder I ills, and I
took them as directed. Within a very tew hours it appealed that
I was getting relief, but it seemed too good to be tiue, 1 couia
hardly believe it. However, I persevered with them, and aftei
taking four boxes the pain that had been upon me so long entiiely
disappeared. While I was thankful to get temporary relief men
for a 1 short time, at this time —August 27. 1912 —I was doubtful
as to whether I was really cured, but I felt sure that time on j
could prove whether my cure was permanent or not. .. .
This is the story of how Mr. \\ llliam Wright, of 11 '' atlmgton
Street. Reading, suffered, and how lie was cured.
Here is the climax: On July 29, 1914. nearly two years aftei
Mr. Wright first thought lie was cured, he said : “I am pleased
to tell you that the cure that was effected nearly two years ago
has proved to be absolutely permanent, and 1 have had no return
of my old trouble. I am keeping quite well and shall alwajs
recommend De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Bills, as I am sure
that they are a splendid remedy in all kinds of kidney troubles.
I shall be very pleased to reply to anyone inquiring of me regarding
the above facts. I never lose an opportunity of recommending
De Witt’s Pills to people who I know would benefit by them.
Most people look upon backache as something not worth
troubling about until the pain gets really severe. Backache is
always one thing —it is a sign-post of danger. Backache means
one thing and one thing only—kidney trouble. It may be in its
early stages, or it may be advanced, but backache invariably means
that the kidneys are affected. .
It is remarkable how this kidney trouble seems to be increasing
year by year. Thousands and thousands of people in the towns
and villages of this country are in terrible danger of deadly kidney
disease, if they only knew and realised it.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradually getting a firmer
and firmer grip, until when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he lias Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney trouble? Do you
know how to recognise whether you are suffering from this or not?
47
Mr. W. WRIGHT (from photo).
Years of Awful
Backache-
Hopeless—but De
Witt’s cured me.
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney disease: Aches and
pains in various parts of the body, nasty taste in the J“ th
thing in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-eolo ed un
o-eneral feeling of weakness and irritability, pufhness undei the
p VPS these are all symptoms of kidney trouble. ,
' ‘ And then people who suffer from backache, rheumatism, »put,
sciatica, gravel, stone or pains in the bladder, muscles and )
are all suffering these pains through weak or diseased ,
these are the sure and certain symptoms of kidney “ouhie.
All these things mean that the kidneys are weak and diseasec
Thev need strengthening and making healthy. detected a
‘The moment any symptoms of kidney trouble are detee
very simple and sure remedy should be tried without delay.
You should use one which millions of people aie usm g
out the world-one which English sufferers have faith m, and bo
have Scotch, Irish and Welsh people. Aot only these, e P 1
of New Zealand, South, East,_ North and West Atnca,
Australia and China in their millions swear by it. ,
The ptople of Holland, the Belgian, the Frenchman yes and
the Italian, too, all know that it is the only one ceHam ; u _
kidney troub.le. Canada’s and America’s millions use and
mend it daily, and the sale is growing enormously—the sure
thev are all using is De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder PiUs
' Why are all these millions of people using De IN itt s ivm .
3nd Because they'have proved, by experience that these wonderful
| ve JJ,
corner of the world are using them with such gi eat success,
you not think it would be wise for you to give them a trial.
T'lnn’i wacfo *1 SlDfflG tlOlir* CjO clt OIICG B.lxd <L d x
Witt's Kidney and Bladder Bills, which are made the above
kidney and bladder troubles. They will cure every one of the a
symptoms no matter how long or how badly you have suffere .
To cure kidney trouble of any kind you must positively ,et
,-id of the cause—the poisonous Uric Acid. Remember, to do this,
a real remedy must pass through the kidneys and tthe| blad
not through the bowels as most kidney pills do. When you
Sdne change to a muddy bluish color-a feature which distm
“Viches De Witt’s Pills from all others—you know beyond ail
doubt that they have put their healing touch on the rig A S P°
dnovs and the bladder. And the cost is so small. Do not pur ou,
because weak kidneys very often means Br rtt’s Dtsease m the
end, and then it will be too late Be wise m time
But when vou buy the pills be sure you get De Witt s, in u s
S speciai
seal. Mr. Wright got De WITI S.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
size—most advantageous. TRIAL BOX FREE and plainly packed if jou
with the blue seal on the cork —send your money to E. C. De \vitt & Co.
. r ~.w size contains two-and-a-half times as
everywhere. 3/3 and 6/- per box. La g difficulty in getting genuine
a d , «-42 a ?St bj ' return -
many as the 3/3
De Witt’s Pills—
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Ouiclam” : The Savinas Bank Department
of the Commonwealth Bank doesn’t seem to
<*row more convenient as it grows older.
“While I live I’ll grow worse.” appears to be
its motto. It has abandoned the habit ot
keeping any stock of pass-books at agencies,
so that when a new account is opened the
depositor has to wait several days before the
head office can forward a book. Also, it a
depositor’s book is tilled with entries his
financial transactions must stop till lie has
posted it, at his own expense, to the head
office to have a fe\v extra leaves gummed in.
Apparently Denison Miller is too great a
man to run a Savings Bank, and when it
comes to a competition between the State and
Federal savings institutions the State wins
easily. Yet the people who lend their money
to the Commonwealth get only 3 per cent, for
if. so they might legitimately ask for a
little more consideration.
* * * *
“Hampton” : Private Enterprise, with all
its boasted business acumen, frequently
wastes a good deal of energy, stamps, etc.,
on doing a useless formality, while leaving
undone what would be of practical service.
For example, consider the case of the person
who forwards a bale of skins to a Sydney
auctioneering firm. Almost immediately he
receives a post-card notifying receipt of his
letter of advice and promising best endeavors,
etc. This cheers him into believing that the
organisation of the firm in regard to details
is perfect. But later on, when for a fort-
night or three weeks he doesn’t hear whether
the firm has received the goods, and isn’t
told at what sale they will be offered, this
bright illusion fades. Some day, possibly,
P.E. will drop to the fact that the arrival
of the letter of advice, which isn’t very likely
to go astray, isn’t the principal feature of the
argument, lout that it would particularly
delight the sender to know that his goods had
been taken delivery of from the much-dis-
trusted railways, and that they would be
offered for sale on a certain date.
“D.F.”: “Hum’s” lady barber (B.
28/9/T6) has rivals hi the Misses Clee, of
Burnie (Tas.), who have run a hairdressers
and tobacconists’ business for years. The
only male in the business is a boy wlio puts
the lather on before a Miss Glee runs the
razor over you. She’s a good tradeswoman,
too, and all the better because she doesn t
know what’s going to win the Cup. I don t
know how it is now, but a few years ago the
only other barber’s shop in Burnie was also
mostly run by the smooth-faced sex. -Lite
owner was one Ryan, but the Misses Ryan
generally did the shaving. I fancy they aie
married now, though, and, I suppose, are
out of the trade —except for exercising the
wife’s privilege of shearing the old man.
* * * *
“Silas Snell” helps Annie the Housemaid
tell this story of business, deception, taitn-
lessness and dog-stealing:
We was all eomfo'table with the Bonsons but fer
the dog. Mrs. Bonson owned it. He wasn’t much
iv a dog- just one iv them dancin’ terriers ’bout the
size iv a Vienna roll, but worth his weight > m
di’monds, an’ more trouble than three cows an’ a
motor-car. We vfes all the slaves iv Little Jim.
Old Bonson was on’y kep’ about the place as sort
iv ’ead caretaker of his wife’s dog; an’ I was danc-
in’ attendance on the cheese mite all day ’n' arf the
night. So when Sarer hinted that she’d a distant
relation name iv Whiffle dyin’ fer jist such a dog-
I wasn’t over-indignant thinkin’ of her orriu dis-
honesty. In fac\ I pinched Little Jim ’n’ Sarer
took him in her muff an’ give him to the far-away
relation with everyone’s compliments. Two hours
later, when missus come ’ome, the storm broke.
Mrs.' Bonson ’ad hysterics in eight rooms; Mr.
Bonson went off his silly ’ead in the excitement
caused by his wife’s great loss, an' the servants
looked that sad you’d think there was murder ’n’ man-
slaughter all over the place. But Little Jim was
gone fer good, an’ us girls ’ad a sort iv continuous
public ’oliday. But on the third evemn Bonson
’ad us all in the dinin’-room, an’ -sez he: It s plain,
he sez, “your carelessness is responsible fer the loss
of Little Jim. He’s a most expensive dog, n
intend offerin’ a reward iv £lO for his recovery.
What’s more, I’m goin’ to deduct the £lO fiom
the servants’ wages. It’ll make you more careful.
If any of you objects you can take your money ant
go.” Naturally none iv us raised any objections.
We knew Little Jim was provided for for life;
consequently—our troubles! Well, the advt. was
put in the papers, an’ we in the kitchen was
delighted with it, more especially Sarer. Wot ap-
pcned next? Oh, nothin’ t’ make a song about.
Only that ’ound Whiffle brought the dog back when
he saw the advt., an’ we’ve got Little Jim worse n
worse, ’n’ what’s more, Whiffle took the £lO
reward —our ten pound !”
“D.C.8.”: When “McNorth” says (B.
3/8/T6) that the cultivation of cocoa-
nuts offers a highly probable means of set-
tling the far northern coast of Australia he
is right enough, providing the I ederal Gov-
ermnent is prepared to formulate some
scheme of advancing the necessary capital
to would-be settlers. A 99-year lease would
also be necessary. It is a mistaken idea
that eocoanuts will not flourish except along
the foreshores. In Ceylon, W est Africa
and many other tropical countries there
are cocoanut estates over a hundred miles
inland, and they are payable propositions.
A frontage of two-thirds of the depth lias
nothing against it, but any area under lut
acres would not be worth while. Irom the
time of planting till the producing stage is
reached six years may easily be allowed.
One hundred acres would produce not more
than 20 tons copra in the _ seventh year,
increasing up to say 50 tons in the fifteenth
year. From the fifteenth year onwards
there may be a further slight increase, but
it would be unsafe to reckon on more than
12cwt. of copra per acre per year. The
cost of planting 100 acres and bringing it
into bearing runs from £l2OO to £l5OO in
the Solomons. In North Australia the cost
would be between £2OOO and £3OOO. Allow’-
ing‘ for good markets always, the profits
from the seventh-year crop would not exceed
£200; when a hundred acres were in full
bearing the nett annual profits would be
about £6OO. Given regular and suitable
means of communication with Southern
markets, the revenue could be considerably
augmented by catch crops, and when the
trees were old enough, say in the fifth yeai.
cattle or other stock could be introduced,
thus overcoming somewhat the cost of plan-
tation upkeep and providing additional
revenue. It is important that areas selected
should be outside the hurricane belt, other-
wise the whole scheme would be a gamble.
“Ses”: The 1915-16 season made records
in more ways than one. While N. S. Wales
astonished travellers with its enoimous
stacks of wheat at railway sidings, South
Aus. was making a great haystack display.
Not far from Gladstone are five w;ell-built
heaps that constitute one of the sights of
the district. Three of them contain 600 tons
each, one over 800 tons and the other over
3000 tons. The giant is 250 yards in cir-
cumference, but it is beaten easily by a
colossus at Riverton, which is 150 yards
long and contains over 1300 tons.
“Dead Nuts” scoffs (B
2V9/W it “the f neval idea
2TMS“' mention 3 &. «*«* walnut
to plant. Wherefore
£WiM;f^™netieet S
«£
for Victoria: Chase, cmncuiu, Tint
Franquette, Placentia and San Jo B t
“there are many seedling Gees, born ua
and soft-shelled, in full bemmg m the State
('Victoria)” and from these nuts to P
in\ selected without going outside
teefSth crop-
resultant seedlings
bud or graft scions taken from the originally-
selected tree. *
The*A W.U. has cut out the private employ-
SenTl “ne^rheVS
recompense. * *
“D F” • This trading with the enemy is
a tangled business. If a storekeeper has
pots and pans made in Germany he is to
be forbidden to sell them after the end of
the year even if lie can produce evidence
that they were bought and paid for before
the war. But you can get in Austraha a
purely German book like the Almanack
de Gotha,” which has been produced and
printed, presumably in Germany, since the
war began. The 1916 edition, which has
come to hand as usual, still bears the ini-
print of Justus Pertl.es, of Ootta ».i “»
indication that business is not still bein s
carried on at the old address. #
“8.D.”: She used to put her savings in
the Commonwealth Bank, but lias dou ) s
now about its safety, and has started a
hoard. I asked wliat form she kept the
cash in. "Commonwealth notes, of course,
she said. # #
SUSPICIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Within the common kitchen
Where we, just now, exist,
Before each meal we gather
And talk there, in a mist
Of steam and other vapors
The singing gas distils,
Of war and rising rentals
And sordid tradesmen’s bills,
And what we’ve got for breakfast
Perhaps its eggs or meat.
But no one’s ever heard yet
What .Jobson’s going to eat.
His saucepan’s always steaming
Beside the actress’s
And Madam Bonser’s bucket,
Whose contents all can guess.
“Oh, I’ve got nice beef-olives,”
' The little typist says.
“This stew of tripe,” another
Declares, “has soaked for. days.”
But .Jobson never opens
Ills mouth or lifts the lid
Of his old, battered saucepan
That is in steam-clouds hid.
Then, by and bye, we weary
iVnd Jobson says, 111 mind
The cooking. Read your papers.”
The typist says, “I find
There’s something I’ve forgotten. ’
So, one by one, we go,
And Jobson stands there nobly
And regulates things so.
“All right!” we hear him calling.
“Thank you!” we all reply.
And coming, see him going,
With rapture in his eye.
Of late we’ve had suspicions.
I missed a spud one day,
Madam was short an onion,
While I regret to say
The typist, lost an olive,
And old Ma Shipton swears
A piece of steak went roving
When she had run downstairs.
A carrot that a spinster
Set store by vanished too,
Though Jobson said that carrots
Oft boiled themselves from view.
One day—a rare chance offered —
1 looked in Jobson’s pan.
’Twas filled with boiling water,
And that won’t feed a man.
I questioned him about it.
lie said, on certain days,
He only took hot water
Served up in different ways.
Yes, we’ve our grave suspicions,
And what has got us beat
' Is that we’ve never yet heard
What Jobson’s going to eat.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
LIGHTS ALONG THE RIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was leaving Melbourne the night was warm
ami still,
And captive ships were sleeping as even captive.
Our well-lit decks were crowded as we turned down
the stream, • . , . „
But wharves and town and river were prisoned in
dream.
The far, faint shrieks of engines, some great clock s
parting chime,
Came floating- from the city, at this our sailing
time; .
The great screws churned the river and turned our
hows to sea ;
The lights along the river winked cheerfully at mo.
Oh, down the winding Yarra the winking lights aie
set,
And good it is to see them when eyes with tears
are wet; ..
For when the farewell racket grows fainter in the
night, , . ,
“So long! we’ll see you later!” says ev ry cheerful
light.
K.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


\
It j_Ll
M ' * i t(
a.
r :
O 1
t:
3
r
©
r*
x v
ISI
?v * )
s
J
r ] < }] iwwi
*
/
□a
/7'
V
17 ! j
t a ,
w /
WjifS',
WMi
m
Hi
m
mm
m
r,
fa//
g»
ja@e
7**-*V»V;
B§F
/s
6
jT
\
1 J
ALADDIN FINDS THE B.T.H. MAZDA LAMP IN THE MAGICIAN’S CAVE.
Aladdin Series
No. 1.
9
-
m
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
city^ 3!hT(s^unes). Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Etd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (1V.A.1: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—4ge/Jts—
‘Mazda House.” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
CENTRAL 9579. MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: lAmlsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Xaunceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQnarie Street, Holiart,


A. Saunders’ Luminous
Radium Dial Wristlet,
Watch, Solid Silver Case, Full
Jewelled Lever Movement, £3,
£3/10/- Gold Filled, £4/10/-
Solid Gold, £5/10/-,
£O/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
Kept in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Bat-
talion Color
Signet Ring,
25/-. Lady’s size,
21/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring,
9ct, 15/-
15ct., 30/-
18ct., 35/-
Gent.’s 9ct.,
22/6;
15ct„ 40/-
18ct., 50/-
1
A. Saunders’ Double-case Solid
Silver Hunting Keyless Watch,
full chronometer balance, patent non-
magnetic time-spring, accurate and reli-
able, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4, £5; Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £lO.
Kept in free repair one year.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch.
set Diamonds and Peridots, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Three
Gar Brooch, set Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones, 20/-
A, Saunders’
9 c t. Gold
Ring, set Beauti-
ful Cameo, 15/-
Other styles,
A. Saunders’
1 8c t. Gold
Ring, set Double-
cut Diamond,
£2/10/- Larger
Diamond, £3,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
15c t. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls or Aquama-
rines, £5/10/-
All Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Ring, set five
pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£lO, £l5, £2O,
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring, £l2/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and
Platinoid Brooch, set Diamonds and
Ruby, £5.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set pure,
double-cut Dia-
monds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch,
set Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise, 25/-
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG POST FREE.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Patent Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, Full Jewelled Lever Move-
ment, accurate and reliable, £7/10/- 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-, £l5. Other Grades, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and Platinoid
Brooch, set Diamonds, Pearls and Aquamarine,
£6/jn/-
m
l. Saunders’
ct. Gold Claw
et Ring, set
Garnet, 25/-
15ct., 40/-
18ct., 50/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Three Bar,
Diamond Cluster Brooch, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Brooch, set Diamonds and
or Sapphires, 25/-
Gold
Rubies
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gol
Gipsy Settin
Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, £lO.
71 O-
A. Saunders’
18c t. Gold
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£5/10/-,
£7/10/-,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
1 5c t. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Scroll
Brooch, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opp. Railway Station)
A. Saunders’ Military
Wristlet Watch, Nickel or
Gunmetal Case, Jewelled Lever
Movement, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-.
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
Solid Gold, £4/10/-, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding
Ring,
9ct., 20/-
15ct., 25/-
18et„ 30/-
Heavier, 40/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold,
Wedding
Ring,
9ct., 10/-,
15ct., 15/-
18ct„ 20/-,
Heavier, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Special Non-mag-
netic Open-face Lever Watch,
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof, pat
Solid Nickel Case, dust and waterproof,
patent adjusted balance, 20/-, 20/-,
30/-. Guaranteed for 20 years and
kept in free repair one year.
Tsasm
■
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-» Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STR-ET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
sf
If any illustration appearing in . The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the llorsf., 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
AVriting Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Cali, Book, 2/-.
Adventures or a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-.. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook. 5/-. . Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. • God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,.
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
m
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. Tt will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Prop. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamrlers’ .Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 11- .
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How_ McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3,
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 2o Tears.
ONEY A SMAEE IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
II- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at ,5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather, bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. .The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydivey (only)


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Xlieaires mu,
(Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSII.
yi VOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
a magnificent programme of world-
famous ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
IVOLI THEATRE, ~ MELBOURNE
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
SYDNEY .TAMES, MADELINE ROSSITER, GWEN
LEWIS, CONNIE MILNE, AY. G. DESMOND, GEO.
< iRAYSTONE.
Also, Degnoti and Clifton, Haydee’s Marionettes.
Artois Duo, Little Billie de Rex, Svinoff, Musical
living and Dan Ahern.
Plan at Glen’s.
H K R M A J liS TV’ S, S Y I) N EY
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
lirst Production in Sydney of the London Gaiety
Hit,
TO-NIGHT’S THE NIGHT.
.r.
A
C.
Musical Delight, Bringing
WILLIAMSON’S MUS I CAL
(“Sydney’s Own.”)
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales
Back Here
COMEDY CO.
Callose’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
■ Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
ONLY EIGHT MORE NIGHTS.
E. J. Carroll and Beaumont Smith present Ilenrv
Lawson’s Real Australian Play,
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS.
Being an adaptation by Beaumont Smith of some
of Henry Lawson’s Works.
NEW AUSTRALIAN SONGS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. No Extra Booking
t ee. Plan at Paling’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Reigning
Success of London since Oct. 10, 1915, when it was
produced at the Duke of York’s Theatre,
ROMANCE,
By Edward Sheldon, with MADGE FABIAN and
FRANK HARVEY and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose..
DAhACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FINEST ATTRACTION IN THE CITY.
ALLEN DOONE, in his New Play',
HAPPY-GO-LUCKY O’SHEA
Hear Allen Doone sing the New Songs: “The Kil-
kenny Cats,” “The Night Bird’s Cooing,” “Think of
Me, Sweet Maid.” Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales
at the White Rose. Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1 -.
GOOD-BYE.
PAUL DUFAULT.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21 ; & OCTOBER 23, 25, 28.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
V .
Q A R D E N THEATRE,
Bayswater Road, Darling-hurst, Sydney.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
w
X Kl\N<-r.E PLAYS AT
* THE LYCEUM,
I’ITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at S p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union . metres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer's Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
I I NIO N PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p m
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
iII!EATER .1. I). WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. BAitniNQTON Miller, Managing Director.
I_IER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Scintillating
Musical Success,
THU CINEMA ST Alt.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-
TH EAT R E ROY A E, MELBOIIiNIi"
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 21.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd., present JULIUS
KNIGHT in the Great War Play,
UNDER FIRE.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER presents his newly-imported
Musical Burlesque Co.
THE MATINEE GIRL,
and
IN JOYLAND.
. Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
SWING’S THEATRE, ME LUO lR N T
Lessees Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 21.
The BERT BAILEY CO. presents HARRY PLIMMEU
a ncl an augmented combination in
LOVERS’ LANE.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
RCADIA, ST. HILDA MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROOK PTY. LTD.
THU PINK DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen’s
and Habers’.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi- i
pal.centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba tc
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the. Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE, i
FU LL E R’S HOTEL, MEL B O U R X E
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and ,
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board j
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and I
ELLA CARRINGTON. !
tx^cAma
CURES ECZEMA.
Edewyl, Hannell Street, Wickham, 13/7/’l6. Mr.
S. Fielder, Randwick. Dear Sir, —It is with a feel-
ing: of deep gratitude that I write to tell you of the
relief I got from using your valuable remedy. I
have been suffering severely for some time with
Eczema. I got treatment from several chemists and
several patent medicines that were recommended to
me. They all failed to cure me. I was eventually
recommended to try your valuable Skin Cure. I got
relief after the first application, and now I am very
pleased to say completely cured.— -Geo. Bailey.
All Chemists and Druggists,
or S. FIELDER Randwiclr.
[l
5/-, 2/6
THE DOLL’S TEA PARTY]
Only 1/6
[for the Lot <
sfd
Marvellously CHEAP 3 Dollies m
creped papef dresses, prettily inlaid
Rgrund Table, 3 Bamboo Arm l
LChairs w;th rush Seats, and a<
[China r*«a Set—teapot, sugar,
bowl, creaui jug and three,
cups and saucers All for ]/6,
and we pay carriage anywhere.
1 The UNION Company.
J 299 Elizabeth Street, Meib
Three Sizes
\y 2 H.p.
2 H.p.
3 % H.p.
sdf
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
- ■ ■. t ' •
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with higli-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Fetrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARI), 370 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Clift' Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z. -
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
<&
[4
is the Tonic Food which
* invigorates without reaction.
VITAFER is the quickest restorative in all cases of
Mental Exhaustion, and the physical condition described as
“below par.” It acts like a charm in Nervous Debility,
Dyspepsia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc., and in all conditions
brought about by over-work and climatic dangers.
VITAFER is “ super-nourishment.” It is a great food,
and a great vitaliser.
VITAFER is non-constipating.
Vitafer
FS" All-BriHsh_TpnicFSoa~|
has the ur qualified recommendation of British Medical
Men, and is superior to all other Tonic Foods.
VITAFER is produced entirely by SOUTHALL BROS.
& BARCLAY, Ltd., of BIRMINGHAM, Eng., an old
established and well known English Firm of high repute.
(FOUNDED 1820). All the processes of VITAFER
manufacture are carried out in their own works at
TIPPERARY and BIRMINGHAM.
N.B. The moderate price places it
within the reach of all.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists, 40z., Boz. and 16oz.
Prices 31- SI- and 91-
/'BRITISH^
i therefore
L BEST
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for October
sdf
This month sees a list of records equal to the best we have
announced for some time.
The last on the list is one that will be extremely popular—
“ For Auld Lang Syne! Australia Will Be There,” by
W illiam White, baritone, assisted by a fine male chorus.
The two Concert Records are well up to the Edison concert
standard, and other very pleasing items include: “Sailing
Down the Chesapeake Bay” ( Premier Quartet) ; “Are Wo
Downhearted. No!” Eliz. Spencer and chorus); “Song of
IJybrias the Cretan” (T. F. Why) ; and “When Old Bill
Bailey Plays the Fkalele” (Billy Murr.ay and chorus).
Make your selections to-day.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28222—Recitatif ft Arioso —lip Tart splendeur
immortelle—Benvenuto (Eugene Diaz).
Baritone, orch. acc._ Orphee Langevin
-Gloria -Twelfth Mass {Mozart). Mixed
Voices, orch. acc.
Gregorian Choir
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2039 —Sailing Down the Chesapeake Bay. Male
Voices, oi'ch. acc. Premier Quartet
274-B—We’ll Have a Jubilee in My Old Ken-
tucky Home. Tenor, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
2772 Dominion of Canada March.
Sodero’s Band
2773 Till the Boys Come Home. Baritone,
orch. acc.
Frederick J. Wheeler and Male Chorus
2774 Are We Downhearted, No! Soprano,
orch. acc. Elizabeth Spencer & Chorus
2775 — The Blue Paradise. Tenor and Soprano,
orch. acc.
Burton Lenihan, Gladys Rice & Chorus
2770 —When Old Bill Bailey Plays the
Ukalele. Tenor, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
2779—Dancing With Ma Honey. Xylophone,
orch. acc. Charles Daab
2782—Omena —Intermezzo. Banjo, orch. acc.
Fred I an Eps
278-1 —Goodbye, Virginia. Tenor, orch. aec.
George Wilton Ballard & Male Chorus
2786—81ue-White Mareh.
New York Military Band
2789 Lauterbach and IJi-le Hi-10, Yodel.
Orch. acc. George P. Watson
2790 Amina—Egyptian Serenade.
Sodero's Band
2791 Cohen Owes Me Ninety-Seven Dollars.
Comic Song, orch. acc. Maurice Burkhart
2792 -In the Land of Lorraine—Two is Com-
pany. Baritone, orch. arc.
Frederick J. Wheeler
2i94—-On the Bark of an Old Cherry Tree.
Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard A- Chorus
2795—Song of Hybrias the Cretan. Bass,
orch. aec. T. Foster Why
2870—F oi’ Auld Lang Syne! Australia Will
Be There (IP. W. Francis). Baritone,
orch. acc. William White k Male Chorus
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney


sw
IN
D
Y
rs
ELY
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is ideal for
Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties
and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel replete with every
comfort and modern convenience, including telephones in bedrooms con-
necting with the Exchange.
The cuisinp is under the supervision of a very eminent French chef,
who has liis own skilled staff of assistants —thus placing the Went-
worth Hotel with its perfect service and other advantages in the front
rank of the finest hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
MRS. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
HOYTS PICTURES
sfd
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2,ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to 6.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
Bourke $t
' The Picture BlocK
Sydney ♦ 1
POLITICAL
POINTS
The process of ousting German trade in
Australia is still going strong. The Nippon
Yusen Kaisha has had to charter four
extra steamers, which will be arriving in
Melbourne with Jap. goods in the next six
or eight weeks. And the co.’s own liners
will be coming in as usual.
Waiting for war to come and pound on
the front door is the job of neutrals. There
are too many of them already.
Dr. Burgess, of the Presbyterian General
Assembly, is a fair sample of a little mob
that has got its brains tangled. He would,
he says, have followed Hughes if Billy had
shouldered his responsibilities; but now he
must vote No. Then why doesn’t Dr.
Burgess turn down Christianity because
Judas Iscariot was a disappointment?
THE COMPENSATIONS OF WAR.
BILLJIM: “An’ what would you do if I kissed
you ?”
ANNETTE: “I would call gran’mere. Poor
gran’mere! She ’as been quite deaf
since ze last bombardment.”
Compulsory service for home defence is
the law of Australia; more than that, it is
on the platform of the Labor party. Prac-
tically everybody agrees that it is the only
right thing. Nobody proposes to repeal it.
The whole point of the objection to the
present proposal is that to fight in Europe
is not to fight for home defence. To test
that, let us consider what would happen if
Britain and the Allies were smashed on the
field of France. Germany in that event would
be in a position to dictate terms. She would
decide, among other things, what should
become of Britain’s colonies. Every big war
in history has been followed by the redistri-
bution of colonies. Even when the mother
country has not lost a foot of soil one colony
or the" other has been taken by the con-
queror. We have taken German New Guinea,
and what is happening in France will decide
whether we keep it or not. What is happen-
ing in France will just as surely decide
whether we keep Australia or not. If we
don’t keep it, overboard will go all our
ideals. Hence we are defending Australia in
France just as surely as we would be if we
were fighting in Australia. And that being
so, the fight in France is a fight in Home
Defence —the fight for which even the anti-
*conseriptionist says that compulsory service
is the only right thing.
[S. LI. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
The other day Premier Holman made one
of the most lucid statements of his brilliant
career as a Treasurer. He flung down a lot
of figures about alleged profit and loss and
accumulated deficits and credits on his brick-
works and motor garage and “building con-
struction” and bakery and so on, and the
sum total of it all was : Profit on the year
£42,392, loss £696oaccumulated profit
£86,016, loss £73,892. Therefore he claimed
the right to give three cheers. ...What Hol-
man didn’t mention, because honesty and
frankness are the last things in the world
that a party politician can afford to deal in,
was that the receipts from all the things in
which N. S. Wales’s £131,000,000 has been
“invested” amounted to £666,433 less than
the interest. Also he didn’t mention that
this was £353,546 worse than the previous
year.
Nobody who has been brought up on the
milk of trades-unionism can consistently
vote “No” in the conscription referendum.
The first principle of unionism is that a
wrong done to one is a wrong done to all.
On that foundation the whole structure is
built. Now we have formed a union of
nations. Suppose we were invaded. Sup-
pose,' in some way or other, Germany had
been able to send down half a million troops
to Australia, and a bitter campaign was
being fought in our own country. What
should we say if our Allies told us: “Oh.
no, the invasion of Australia isn’t hurting
us. That is a matter for Australia”? What
should we say if Russia, having driven
the enemy across the border, said to Bel-
gium : “That’s all we need trouble about.
Finish it yourselves”? What would the
trade-unionist say if, during a strike, one
section of the workmen got what they
wanted and sneaked back to their jobs, leav-
ing the others to fight it out as best they
could. When we have joined a union of
nations “Home Defence” means something
more than our own home —it means as well
the home of our French mate. And the Ger-
man has still his grip on that.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
The large; public-spirited Victorian
farmer has been exposing his unself-
ishness again. At the recent Mel-
bourne, conference of his new political
union he decided to let the Customs
tariff stay where it is except for a
reduction in the duties on agricultural
implements, manures and other things
required by the primary producer.
Just at present the cocky is getting
3s. a bushel for his wheat, though this
is war-time, and in war-time wheat
usually bounds up. As a matter of
fact, it has bounded up this time ; in
England it is about Bs. per bushel.
The other ss. the cocky doesn’t get
because his market is 12,000 miles
away, and there is a lot of unpleasant-
ness in between. In other words, the
cocky loses ss. or thereabouts a bushel
mostly because he has been a fool
who has been deluded into barracking
for a system which congregated the
consumers at the other end of the
earth. Now cocky is fool enough to
decide that he likes losing ss. so much that
he intends to do all he can to keep the con-
sumers a long way off.
As Premier Peacock candidly put it in his
Budget speech, he “will continue to exercise
the strictest economy” in public affairs. His
expenditure was last year £11,402,715 ; this
year he wall reduce it to £12,025,475. Last
financial year he afflicted the State with a
deficit of £232.815; this year he will make
a strenuous effort to lower’ it to £531,860.
He estimates the coming year’s railway
revenue at the record figure of £6,042,000,
but he will try to make ends meet by not
spending more than £6,422,007. He in-
culcates economy in others by lowering the
railwaymen’s minimum wage from Bs. 6d.
to 9s. per day and by granting certain taller
poppies increases from £24 to £5O a year.
But he seems to have overlooked the State
Excellency. What has that sweated party
done that he shouldn’t- have his salary
reduced from £5OOO to £BOOO a year? Even
that tremendous official,, the State sheriff,
gets an additional ISld. per week. -
It seems only a fair thing that Holman
should go to England as Agent-General, as
he no doubt will shortly. During the next
four years the State has £38,000,000 of debt
falling due, and the whole of it simply has
to be renewed on some terms, because the
State hasn’t any sinking fund except a few
small pieces of paper. The Agent-General
is going to have a delirious time before the
end of 1920; and nobody has earned it
quite so well as Holman.
Anstev, who is now doing all he can to
prevent a further Australian force being
sent against the Germans, made this speech
in Parliament not so long ago:—
The Labor party has no argument against con-
scription. It cannot have any. It was the first
party to make it a party battlecry to have conscrip-
tion of men for the defence of our country. I quite
ANOTHER ULTIMATUM.
M. Venizelos has declared that the provisional
Greek Government, of which he is head, will establish
itself at Salonika, collect taxes, raise and equip
troops, and exercise the functions of a duly-consti-
tuted Government.
VENIZELOS (to Constantine) : “You have
your choice; either you use these weapons
or I do.”
agree with Mr. Watt when he says that once we
admit the fact and accept the principle of conscrip-
tion it is a matter of indifference where the men
shall be called upon to fight. It may be a policy of
discretion that we should carry the fight as far as
possible away from our doors.
Next listen to the anti-compulsionist Catts,
who recently meowed from the highest roof-
tiles of patriotism:—
So far as I am personally concerned, it does not
matter whether compulsion is introduced, because
when my country is fighting for its existence I am
prepared to go wherever I am ordered.
Now, when the defeat of the referendum
proposals will .have a tremendous moral
effect, not only in Australia, which doesn’t
matter much, but in Germany and among
the Allies, where it will matter a lot, these
men are fighting against their declared prin-
ciples for all they are worth. Why?
[Edmund Fisher, Bulletin branch office, Collins-
street, Melbourne.]
COMMISERATION.
THE OLD ’UN: “ How long have you signed
on for?”
THE YOUNG ’UN: “ For the duration of the
war and four months thereafter .”
THE OLD ’UN: “ Good Lord! You ain't
’ARE got had luck, you ain’t. I only
signed on for seven years.”
That very deliberate trifler, Premier Pea-
cock, is just now in a state of violent ani-
mosity mingled with aggravated perplexity.
For months he has been “considering” the
feasibility of an amusement tax, and now
Higgs has got in first and that door is shut;
also there are few other openings visible,
and they are small and mostly “blind.
True, there is the tote,
which would yield a
good round sum; but,
then, Peacock to-day is
a timorous, peaceful
person who doesn’t
like taking a bull by
the horns —he would
rather sidle up to the
animal and pat him,
and ask him to be a
good cow. And Ikey
isn’t the sort of cow to
consent.
Some State depart-
ments still make a prac-
tice of encouraging the
foreign toiler at the
expense of the Aus-
tralian. But iti a
brochure printed be-
fore the war by the
Vic. Dept, of Agricul-
ture and still being
issued, the engineer to
the Department says,
in regard to concrete
silos, that “the locally-
made cements are to
be preferred to the im-
ported makes, as they
are all reliable and
slow-setting, while the
i m ported brands,
though very good in
some cases, are not so
in all.” The merits of
Australian cement are
now recognised on all
hands; yet at the out-
break of war there
was still a large pro-
portion of slowgoers
connected with the
various building and
engineering industries
who used or specified
the imported dirt.
High war-freights have
lately given these mis-
guided people a rude push in the right direc-
tion ; and they will never come back if the
Commonwealth Government does its duty.
There was a yarn drifting around a few
weeks ago that Harry Hoyle, N.S.W. Minis-
ter for Railways, was going to be dropped
into a vacant Commissionership. He was a
probable starter for the job, but somehow or
other he has been knocked right back in
the betting and is nowadays quoted at about
100 to 1. But the odds against Minister
for Works Cairn are getting mighty short.
There are one or two members of the Min-
istry for whom something must be done
before the smash comes, and putting them
ou the national pay-sheet seems the easiest
thing to do. Qualifications —oh, talk sense!
What do they matter?
PARALYSIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Must we, proud kin of those who royally spent
Their life-blood at bleak Anzac, hesitate,
Upon our duty to deliberate?
Or, with a bitter controversy rent,
With ballots, not with banners, be content?
In the hot stress of battle must we wait _
With patriotism palsied by debate,
And let our honor hang- on argument?
Shall deeds that lit the world with noble flames
Be candles meanly quenched, in darkness lost,
Because the hand that lit them feared the cost?
Shall we deliberately their splendor blot?
Shall Pozieres and Anzac be but names
Forgotten —when Australia forgot?
SYDNEY.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THE CUSTOMS SKYSCRAPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The conversion of Sydney Customs House into a
skyscraper “adorned with specimens of Hellenic
art” having commenced, a huge signboard has been
stuck up outside the premises announcing that
This Building Is Being Reconstructed by
King O’Malley.
Let us erect it to the happy skies,
A towering box of steel and polished stone,
At which imagination vainly shies,
Blinded from wonders till that hour unknown.
Splash it with fragments of Hellenic art,
Statue and column, capital and cope;
But keep the structure in its nobler part
Like an ornate, upended bar of soap.
Buildings we have, but these, in scorn of pride,
Attempt but lower flights of lift and stair,
Though some Hellenic touches nailed 'Outside,
By way of ornament, we hold as fair.
Some on a slender archway from the street
Raise the square plinth to hoist the weighty lid,
As though some graceful dryad’s shapely feet
Should bear the load of a vast pyramid.
Such play of fancy gives us keen delight.
Huge advertising hoardings crowd the walls;
And, in electric glory through the night,
The puce pill from the highest roof-tree calls.
We have done something to express our thought—
A gentle thought confused, but always keen.
Now, like a speckled chimney-stack o’erwrought
With chaste design, our fancy shall be seen.
Right in the gateway of our crowded port
The tall, amazing thing shall proudly stand,
While wandering tourists with a start and snort
Baulk at its glory with uplifted hand.
Yet, when we gaze upon it as we pass,
On those Greek splashes we shall scarce reflect,
But, thinking of its purpose, curse the ass
H7;o builds a tariff that will not protect.
n.s.».
CURSE O’ MOSES


SAMES PIANOS
CHARM ALL WHO HEAR THEM *
Tiie sing'ing' quality of
tone and tine worK-
manship of these
pianos will surprise
and delig'ht you. Tliey
are so carefully built
by expert British worK-
men that we feel sure
they will, with reason-
able care, last you a
lifetime. Write for Free
Catalogue and latest
Price List.
Pianos,
Pianos,
Pianos.
We are Sole Agents for S AMES
also CHAPPELL Pianos, ESTEY
VICTOR Pianos and BELLING
We sell on Easy Time Payment.
Old Pianos taKen in exchange.
The greatest care is
taKen by the makers c f
these beautiful pianos
to ensure nothing but
tbe very best material
being' used in tbeir
construction.
Our illustration
shows SAMES Model
94, a piano we guar-
antee to give perma-
nent satisfaction.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD
Est. 1853.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE and TOOWOOMBA.
DAVID JONES’
Solid Leather Suit Case
for 30/6
This knit Case is a typical example in value and economy of “Made by
David Jones” goods, showing superiority in construction and finish, also
& .
a big saving in price, by the elimi-
nation of all but the Manufacturer’s
profit.
Made of selected cowhide, well
tanned and highly polished ; light
but strong steel frame; carefully
sewn, fitted with two inside straps.
Comfortable, secure handle, two
nickelled lever spring locks.
Lengths
Pieces
20in.
30/6
22in.
33/6
25in.
36/6
26in.
39/6
A Khaki Air-Cushion for 7/6
Made of the best-quality
waterproof Khaki cloth, size
18 x 12 inches, as shown in
illustration, complete with
envelope which, with folded
cushion inside, measures only
7x4 inches, and will fit
easily into coat pocket. Every
cushion is tested. Invaluable
to soldiers and travellers, 7/6
fď
Inflated.
Folded in envelope.
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON THESE GOODS.
DAVID JONES
iTn
L I Ua g
op p*
G.P.O.
SYDNEY
Dodge Brothers
ROADSTER
An extraordinary number of
owners have little or no occasion
to call on the dealer for service
It is becoming clear that with
a little care and a trifling
expenditure a car built as Dodge
Brothers car is built can main-
tain itself for an indefinite
period.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
D OOG EB ROTH ERS, DETROIT
Messrs. 'Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Cheney Motor Company Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Messrs. Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Co-operative Motors, Ltd.,
Hobart.
Messrs. .Magnus. Sanderson & Co., Ltd'.,
Wellington.
Mr. George Henning,
Auckland.
Mr. Newton King,
New Plymouth'.
Messrs. Hawkes, Ltd.,
Christchurch.
Messrs. Cossens & Black Ltd.,
Dunedin.
Mr. P, H. Vickery,
Invercargill.


In these anxious times —econ-
omy must be a first considera-
tion. Cut out needless expense
—shave yourself. It s easy and
quite safe if you use the
ďf
r£EZS£ZZEEZ23
No. STROPPING NO HONING
No other razor gives you the
same satisfactory service.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere. Write for free booklet.
Agents: S.. Hoffnung- & Co.. Ltd., Pitt Street,
Svdney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng,
“MOWN THf
sfd
Victoria Racing Club,
Flemington.
The Profits of the Year All Go To I Var llclief Funds.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY' DAY 4th November.
CUP DAY 7th November.
OAKS DAY 9th November.
STEEPLECHASE DAY ....11th November.
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO OVER £30,000
The magnificent new improvements add much to
the comfort of Visitors.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORtIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
sfd
The Se’f-filling
Safety Fountain
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Principal stake winners at A.J.C. Spring-
meeting-: Trautwein (Quinologist and Bursar),
£6086 ; Steitd and Nuttrell (Kilboy), £4597 ; Stead
(Sasanof), £ll9l. Add to this the 2id. that they
won from Ikey, and it makes racing look a good
business —sometimes.
* * * *
The 1016 A.J.C.’s Spring Meeting will
probably be remembered as “Quinologist’s year,”
because a common-looking nag that cost £42 came
to light and won three races in three starts. With
the cash acquired by appropriating the Trial Stakes
and Metropolitan, this animal emerged on the last
day in the Waverley Handicap (If mile). The time
(3min. sJsec.) was nothing to brag about, but on
such a course time meant nothing. The going was
as dull as a sermon. Under pressure Quinologist
could have done a lot better. It was a solidly-run
race, anyhow. The same stable provided another
winner in Bursar, who appropriated the Rand-
wick Plate (two miles), with a brilliant run beneath
9st. 31b., cutting down Carlita and Cagou in the last
bit without great difficulty. And Bursar, don’t forget,
is in the Melbourne Cup, too.
The luck of the game! Quinologist won
the Metropolitan Stakes mainly because a bloomer
was made in not scratching him. His lucky owner,
pubkeeper Trautwein, of Sydney, went to the A.J.C.
office some weeks before the race intending to scratch
both Quinologist and Bursar. Bursar was!eliminated
and then Trautwein got into conversation with a
friend and forgot all about the other nag. A day or
two later Quinologist showed his trainer a wonder-
fully good gallop, and on the strength of this all the
odds that could be got at 100 to 1 were taken. It
is stated round the clubs that Trautwein won £19,000
apart from the stake. Incidentally it is worth
recording that when Bursar downed Carlita in the
w.f.a. event on the last day of the oft-postponed
meeting the stable omitted to invest a bean. The
owner told his friends that Bursar was not ready for
action .just yet, but would be cherry-ripe by Mel-
bourne Cup day.
» * * *
The imported nag and the animal by the
imported sire were at the right end very often
during the A.J.C. and Tattersall s Club meetings at
Kandwiek. In five days 30 races were decided. Of
these 15 were won by the progeny of horses foaled
oversea, six by imported prads, three by Maoriland-
ers. Horses by Australian-bred sires were in front
only five times. There is something wrong some-
where.
* * *
Victoria sent a smart ’chaser over to
Randwick. in Louvre, an imported moke who won
both Steeplechases, and may do something of the
same kind again if given sufficient provocation. He
is only a little chap, but good cross-country horses
are often that way, what has been lost in height
going into diameter. Still, Louvre might have had a
lot of trouble to win on the first day if the Maori-
lander New York hadn’t lost his rider two jumps
from home. This quadruped is wonderfully fast over
the flat, but, Heavens, how he ran down his fences!
* * * *
A racecourse certainty nearly came undone
at Sydney Tattersall’s meeting on Saturday. If ever
there was a good thing on paper it was Rosedell in
the Flying Handicap. The public backed her down
to 5 to 4, and felt as good as gold when the mare
sailed past the distance with the other half-dozen
runners astern. Then the ex-Bananalander Delinacre
came with a wet sail and just failed by a head to
hit the front at the right moment. Inia maintained
her reputation for consistency by running third. That
mare’s performances in her last four starts are worth
putting down: Eosom Handicap, fourth; A.J.C.
Shorts, third; A.J.C. Highweiglit Handicap, first;
City Tatt.’s Flying Handicap, third. #
Ex-bookmaker Teddy Knight owns a
good ’un in the three-year-old filly Roman Queen
(Charlemagne II. —Majesty), which appropriated the
race at Tatt.’s meeting for nags of her age. The
lady was always well up, and won comfortably by
three parts of a length at the end of a mile run in
Imin. 41:}soc. Last season the filly landed a race,
and looks like doing better. Scythion, who was
second, is one of the Earlston tribe, and when a
year younger won his full share of events on subur-
ban and country courses. Roman Queen’s owner has
been racing horses for many years. One of the best
was Roval Purple.
* * * *
Maoriland sent over a weird-looking old
plug to have a shot at the Randwick Steeples this
year, and did well over the deal. This was Okaihau,
a dejected-looking chestnut who, standing in his
stall, seemed to be waiting for a boy to come along
and climb aboard with the meat-basket. But
Okaihau when he gets on to the track bids dull care
begone and grows about 15 years younger. In the
A.J.C. Second Steeple he ran second to the lightly-
weighted Louvre. At Tatt.’s meeting he came out
with rollers on both forelegs, and his tail tied up
out of the way in a knot. It was this tail that
the rrst of the field pursued across the fences and
over the hill. The old nag sprinted off to the
front as if he was in a hurry, and stayed there. In
the last furlong another Maorilander (Troublesome)
got alongside and pushed his head into the lead for
a moment, but the ancient pulled his legs further
underneath and leaped past the post first amid great
applause. Then he wandered back to the paddock
and looked as gloomy as if he had to do it all over
again.
# * * *
“Mujik” : Caulfield Cup, to be run on Satur-
day, looks an open race. Over a dozen horses have been
well backed by people who feel confident about the
harvest. The surest way for a punter to avoid
losing a lot of money is to put only a little on.
Maoriland is going to have a big say with Sasanot
and Bee, but there are other nags at concert-pitch.
On Levando’s running in the Caulfield Stakes he
must be held in great respect. It was said after
last Melbourne Cup that, though he won at Caul-
field, no one really knew how good a horse Levando
was. At Flemington he got badly left, and was
afterwards interfered with when Marculfus and
others fell. But this writer gets back every time
to Sasanof. He is a queer-looking cuss, but is a
galloper right enough. True, there is also Polycrates,
. and a very brilliant moke he is, Nobody need be
. surprised to hear that at some stage of the journey
he was putting up a weighty argument for the
dollars.
* * * *
It isn’t often that Melbourne sees a first-
class youngster winning races thus early in the
season, but the shape and form of llemmon, who
scored his second win in the Debutant Stakes last
Saturday, suggest that he is a topnotcher. Remmon
is a son of Endorus, a handsome English horse that
won the Caulfield Futurity Stakes before he was sent
to the stud. The colt is a fairly-quick beginner and
a resolute finisher.
* * * *
Tlie results of the two classic events on
the first day of V.A.T.C. meeting seemed to discount
the form 'of Kilboy, the A.J.C. Derby winner.
Lavendo defeated the champion 3-year-old brilliantly
in the Caulfield Stakes, and the unexpected Ettefred
was much too good for Wolaroi and Stageland in the
Guineas. Kilboy thus far is proven only to be the
best of the 3-year-olds that ran at Randwick re-
cently. There is no proof that they were not a
merely moderate lot. The Maorilander is certainly
a fine lump of a horse —so lumpish as to be rather
clumsy in a crowd —and he promises to grow into a
champion if he isn’t one already. All the same,
Lavendo seemed to give him 181 b. and an easy beat-
ing without having any the best of the luck on
Saturday.
JOE CHIP, of America, lover of the back-
hand stripe.
From “0.K.,” who has watched more
than 30 Melbourne Cups tor this paper:—
For the past six years the Caulfield Cup winner
-would have been included in anybody’s choice of half
a dozen against the field. This year the race pro-
mises to be crowded with “possibles” unless some-
thing has happened on Wednesday to give a very
commanding show to one or two of the candidates.
The most fancied ones are doubtful g-ood things at
time of writing, and some of the Randwick form that
seemed good enough to swear by is now open to
question. For instance, Sasanof £ot a lot of credit
for beating Woorak over nine furlongs at a difference
of 191 b., but the subsequent running of both nags
in the Craven Plate was disappointing. At the same
time, Potlycrates came under suspicion of having
staled off.' As the runner-up in both the Epsom and
Metrop. the imported horse would have an undeniable
chance for Caulfield Cup. He has nothing more to
carry than in the Metrop., and there is no Quinologist
to heat him. But it is not certain that Polycrates
will be at his best, or second best, next Saturday.
Lavendo may be brilliant enough to win with 9st.
41b. up, which is 301 b. more than he carried to
victory last year; nevertheless the gait of Lavendo
when he was led around the birdcage last Saturday
suggested that he may go amiss at any moment.
Besides, his easy defeat of liilboy is no guarantee that
he can beat such dangerous lightweights and recent
winners as Tcrbane (7st. 21b.), Sasanof (6st. 111 b.).
and Racl Locin (6st. 71b.). The most con-
sistent performers among the kindly-handicapped can-
didates are Bee (Bst. 31b.) and Rael Locin. The
latter is the dark 4-year-old that beat Blague and
Highrock and 16 others in the Toorak Handicap. He
may be a very good horse, and he certainly can be
trusted to run kindly in the hands of a tiny lad. He
is full of health just now, and although his stamina
is unproved the chances are that he can stay 12
furlongs, anyhow. His sire, Delaware, was a notori-
ous plodder. The writer prefers Rael Locin to any-
thing else. A ridiculous name —which appears to be
Lear Nicol spelt backwards —is not the fault of the
poor animal.
* * * *
Hawker’s Boontree and Hamilton’s Bour-
lang had the surprise of their bripf existence in the
South Aus. Derby. They have grown quite used to
beating each other in turn, with Mostyn Owen’s
Marmur waiting on them and sometimes dividing
them. In the Derby Marmur made all the running
for a mile while they waited handy for him to come
back. He came back all right, but Cudmore’s Novka
(Pistol —Guncarriage) came forward, and won as he
liked from Boontree —also a Pistol. Ncvka was bred
in S.A., and this was his first win. The totalisator
takings at the two-days’ meeting were the smallest
for about seven years; but, even so, the S.A.J.O.
was glad to be back on its own course, lately
occupied as a camp. Last year’s Derby was run on
the old course, lent by A.R.C.
“Wart”: By the death of Chiron, im-
ported about six years ago by W. L. Field, of De o-
raine, the Speck loses about the best sire in the
Island. Most of Chiron’s get were sprinters. Desire
was, of course, easily the best, and could move o\ei
a couple of miles when he liked. About the smartest
of the others were Chiron’s Faith, Silver Claim,
Tasman’s Isle, Sweet Lil, Silver Ijake, C liirone,
Friendly Foe, Prince Chiron, Selbago, Tonga mil,
Lady Chiron and Chi Chi, who raced in South Aus.
The main effect of this bunch of names is to illus-
trate the poverty of the racing man’s imagination.
In all Chiron produced 96 winners, who have won
239 races (£18,025). t
“Spreader”: Yes, and Maori land owner
Ormond has run a juniper occasionally, too. Napper
was a scorcher across country while he lasted, lie
blew out through miscalculating the distance at the
onlv jump that stood in the road of the big Auck-
land double, Hurdles and Steeple about five years
ago. He had the first leg in, and the field well
behind him in the second. Sir Tristram and Bollm
were a pair of milers that deserve a word. Both
were descendants of Lady Mersey, Carbines full
sister; but, as the pedigree writers say, "this line
lias been gradually going to the wall.”
-* * * *
TIPS FOR TO-MORROW.
[For Tub Butj.eti.v.]
The headlines say in their shriekv way
On East and West there is hell to pay.
“Thousands of Dead” is the line to-day.
Down in the Balkans no one looks gay.
But there’s one gleam in an outlook grey—
One line of hope in a page of sorrow
Shining before us: “Tips /or To-morrow!
JI.S.W. GRAND NATIONAL.
» * * *
Billjim is the sport. The writer of this
paragraph, when down at a transport the other
dav seeing l a mate off, noticed a chap who had just
got through a tearful parting with his mother, beckon
a cobber. “Say, Squeaker,” he remarked, “put this
on Deadbeat for the Flvin’ ; the cow owes me
some,” and he passed over ’arf a quid. What odds
against one of these chaps on arrival at the molten
gates offering to bet the Bloke with a tail two to
one he cannot find the ace?
* * * *
Galloped his last mile, somewhere in
Egypt, Footwear (Ganymede—Footmark), the South
Aus. racehorse. Mostyn Owen, his owner, gave him
to Harry Aldridge, who got good war-work but of
him till a shell found him out.
The Victorian State Parliament im-
poses a tax on betting which leaves the business in
the same scandalous position as the N.S.W. Legisla-
ture left it. Less disgraceful, perhaps, in so far that
the new taxation will extract more revenue than
Holman's Bill to perpetuate Ilcey Mo, yet less defen-
sible because it presses more heavily upon the little
frequent punter in the metropolis than upon the
larger and merely occasional local punter at country
race-meetings. All taxation of the tickets of men
who sell the odds is bound to be passed on to
the punters who buy them, anyhow. The licensed
individual parasites will shorten their prices on a
yearly average in order to spare themselves the tax,
whereas a legalised tote would lengthen the odds and
pay twice as many dividends in most cases. The
Government’s old hypocritical excuse that it dare
not “legalise” the Gambling Evil, not even in the
financial interests of the public hospitals, is clean
blown out by its tax on bookmakers’ tickets. The
excuse that the tote would increase the Gambling
Evil remains as false and foolish as before. Coming
from the lies of well-informed Parliamentarians it
was always an audacious lie. Uttered by unin-
formed wowsers it was an honest contradiction of
the truth. How the wowsers are going to square
their conscientious objections to Government sanc-
tion of betting with their acceptance of Peacock's
new policy the Lord only knows. Perhaps the
triumphant Association of Federated Bookmakers can
offer a suggestion? #
They catch ’em young for the nag-pilot
industry. When Little Titch (100yds. behind) won
a pony trot at Parkes (N.S.W.) lately from half a
dozen others it was discovered that the rider, Jack
Palmer, had been alive six years and nine months.
* * * *
Dave Smith went close to taking the k.o.
from George Chip’s brother Joe at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday—much closer than lie cared about.
Joseph is a puncher, and he punched David good
and hard, not to say painfully. In the twelfth
round the Yank administered two wallops each of
which sent David to rest for nine and handed oyer
another which just missed doing the trick. Smith
was down and. spread out when the gong beat the
count by one. It was a torrid round. But Smith
came back like a giant refreshed, and at the end
of the disturbance was pronounced to be the winner
on points. It was a good, vigorous scrap, and the
boxer won because the fighter failed to wooden him.
# * * *
Mick King, one-time middleweight cham-
pion boxer of Australia, left for America a week or
two ago without any brass-band music. Over yonder
he will come across other Australian pugs who within
the past few months have felt the lure of the game
pulling them to the U.S.A., though the money for
second-raters there is not nearly as big as it is here.
* * * *
Cricket is still being played around Syd-
ney, but not much more interest is taken in it than
in marbles. On Saturday the opening first-grade
matches were deplorably dull. North Sydney, former
holders of the premiership, managed to rush up a
scratch team one short against Petersham. In the
first innings it made 14 runs. Five players were
guilty of 0. Forty-six balls completed the damage.
Scott’s average was 6 for 7. Petersham declared
with 5 wickets for 143, and the others went on for
a second knock. This time Punch remembered his
name, and had 47 on when the smack was adjourned.
Yet there is one good feature about the general
calamitousness. The youngsters arc getting a chance.
Charlie Ivellaway, international cricketer
from Glebe (Sydnev), who has been thrice wounded,
found out the 'other day that he had also been deco-
rated with the Military Cross.
»* * *
H. A. Merewetlier, dead at Sydney, played
for N. S. Wales against Victoria in the first inter-
state tennis matches in ’B3. He was a great smasher,
and an opponent to be dreaded in the games of a
quarter-century ago. The tennis-playing Merewethers
of that time consisted of two sisters and six brothers.
*'**.■*
“Mynn”: Stumped by Time —Adam Hope,
one of' the oldest of Australian cricketers. Coming
to Australia 60 years ago, he played for Victoria
against Ma at Sydney in Feb., ’63, accumulating
8 and 2 in a match in which the highest individual
Victorian score was 25. The veteran’s death recalls
the most glorious row connected with that match.
Vic.’s umpire gave S. Jones, one of the N.S.W.
men, run out. Ma’s umpire said that he had called
“over” before the bails were removed, and Jones,
like Geora-e Oiffen at a later date, refused to be
regarded as dead. The crowd rushed
and the Victorians retired to their hotel, where much
whisky assisted discussion of the positio ;' ontim „,
outcome was that Jones was allowed to
batting next day, but “Jerry” Marshall, the
lUackham of his time, and Greaves, anothe P
nent Victorian, had the sulks so fiadlvthat they
refused to continue and the match was tmisl
out them. Victoria was badly beaten in the games
and when the dispute was referred to the M
Cricket Club she received another smack in tne eye.
Ma and Vic. refused to speak for some time attei
this incident. So there was no match m 64^
* * * ,
It was mentioned at the annual meeting
of the S.A. Cricket Association that, ot th ® J 3 ,;
Peter’s College 18 who played in the football match
on the Oval in 1912, every man lias enlisted xnere
must be many teams of various schools and v •
vears that come near to this, up and down A-
- ; but to have no gap in the ranks at an is
unusual.
Lieut. F. E. Wilson, of Maoriland,
wounded in France lately, was a fine athlete in the
davs when tliere was nothing extra-special to attend
to.' From 1906 to 1910, inclusive, he played KugDj
for Auckland’s representative 15, and m 1«1J
adorned the black jersey with the silver fern which
is M.L.’s highest compliment in the field. Wilson
was a great track sprinter, a cricketer and a
swimmer, hut he spent most of his time as a
dominie.
* * * *
Through a telegraphic error the time for
motor-cyclist Jack Booth’s record mile whirl at Adel-
aide was: given as 37sec. instead of 3osec. G O -*®
m.p.h.). This whiz knocks everything else to
smithereens. Booth is now getting ready to tackle
Yankee E. G. Baker’s record figures for 100 miles
and upwards.
* * * *
American motor-cars are pouring into
Australia in thousands, and as these cars come shod
with tyres, it means a considerable loss to Australian
rubber manufacturers. They have _ little chance of
fitting tyres to the new cars, seeing that only &
nominal sum is allowed off the price of a car which
p imported with bare rims. In the case ot one
fitted with 815 x 105 m.m. tyres, only £ll Is. per
set was offered an Australian agent as a rebate it
it was shipped in a tyreless state. The public is
the loser, because the tyres fitted to most ears
coming into this country are considerably lighter
than is deemed essential for our roads even 2o
per cent, lighter not only in covers but in tubes. In
the case quoted above the four covers weighed
671 b. and the tubes 91b., as against 821 b. and 141 b.
respectively for Australian Dunlops. A difference
of 201 b. of rubber and fabric represents a lot of
miles. The Australian manufacturer does not put
more material into his tyres for philanthropic
reasons, but because it is essential to his trade.
* * * *
This season’s racing on Sydney Harbor
has been remarkable for the poor display made by
Kismet. During the previous two or three years the
craft was invincible. So far this season one solitary
fifth place is the old boat’s share. Quibree heads
the list.
* * * *
“Bias” : Some of the Sydney bonding clubs
have got so large that selection of a pennant team
makes a heart-searching problem. In clubs with 200
members on the active list 8 per cent, play in the
pennant games and 92 per cent, watch them monopo-
lising uie rest of tne green. In some of the clubs
the selection committee has hoisted the white flag'
and refused to select. Then the clubs have had to
resort to the system of ballot, and while this ensures
that quite a lot of “decent chaps” are picked, it often
enough results in strong players getting the cold
shoulder. The trouble is that the bowling enthusiast
wants to play, while the average cricket enthusiast
is willing to look on and see somebody else play.
* * * *
Sydney Grammar scooped the pool in N. S.
Wales Great Public School rifle-shooting champion-
ships at Sydney. It won the Rawson Cup (200yds
and 500yds.), Schools’ Challenge Shield (500yds.-and
600yds.), Buchanan Cup (800yds.), cadet match
(200yds. and 300yds.), and second-grade premiership.
Grammar School, therefore, keeps a firm grip on the
championships it gathered in 1915.
THE QUICK AND THE DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Don’t touch it,” said the knowing one to me—
We’d met at a suburban racing-track.
He, kind soul, said he’d tell me what to back--
“Don’t touch it, man—it’s dead, that bloomin’ gee!
“D-E-A-D —a stiff ’un! Take my tip,
Leave it alone. If you’ll give me your brass,
I’ll put it on a trier of some class —
A cert. 1 know the owner! It’s a snip!”
And so I gave him, wondering- the while,
Two pounds. “Don’t move,” he counselled,, “and
don’t talk;
Just watch the horse I back win in a walk ;
When 1 bring back your divvy you will smile.”
lie disappeared. What were his feelings when
The race was run? For, marvellous to say,
The one he said was dead won all the way.
I'd never seen a miracle till then.
Did he, like all the punters round, evince
Signs of great gladness, cheer with might and main,
Because that gee had come to life again?
I’d love to know—l haven’t seen him since!
VICTORIA.
J. MUGG.


m
-
Good Health is within
YOUR Reach Hi
Good health waits on good digestion.
Good digestion is the result of sufficient and proper exercise,
therefore good health is within the reach of all.
I F you wish to become strong and healthy—to be always
physically fit—you must have proper exercise. Lack of
exercise means poor digestion—poor muscular development—
insufficient strength to ward off the many complaints to
which mankind is susceptible. Get strong, and stay strong.
My Postal Course of
Health and Strength Exercises
will make you fit, and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen, and unseen,
muscles is -by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling
waste tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part
of your body.
The BAKER. EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copv of my Booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.” It tells all about my
health-giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
penny stamps for postage. .T’ st write '•'mr nam° <md address
across this advertisement. I’ll know whit you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
545 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
“AUTUMN GOLD”
CIGARETTES.
There is nothing better in Virginia
Cigarettes than “Autumn Gold.” They
Actual Size.
are mild and of rare
quality, being made from
the very finest of speci-
ally selected Virginia
leaves.
They are manufactured
by W. D. & H. O. Wills,
of Bristol. England, and
packed in hermetically-
scaled vacuum tins, which
keep them in perfect con-
dition.
In Tins of 50 —plain, or
22et. Gold Tipped—
-4/6 per Tin.
Postage on 100:
N.S.W.. 6d.
Inter-State. Bd.
WRITE FOR A FREE COPY OF MY
ILLUSTRATED CATALOG* IT WILL IN-
TEREST ALL SMOKERS.
A. IV3. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
44
SHELL
BENZINE
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(N on-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of eases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
:£S=kS
CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
A Marvellous ROAD Performance!
On Saturday, October 7, in South Australia
J. Booth, on a 7=h.p. Stock T.T. Indian,
• achieved the amazing speed of
1 Mile in 35sec., or a World’s
Record of 102*8 Miles per hr.
(Officially checked and electrically timed by the South Australian Motor Cycle C üb.)
Indian Now Holds the Record for the
Highest Speed ever obtained on a
Motor Cycle.
Catalogue “ D ” with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
109-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
i
Ik.
m*
«n
HM kfi&&fc£aC^SsiSS&
W^F'i!
SHemcio
X
wasm -
nk
Write for Particulars and Quotations ,
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
THE HIGHEST STANDARD
wm V.
mm
Hi
mm
of footwear excellence is fully upheld in
every pair of Rigney Footwear. In quality,
style, price and every detail
RIGNEY SHOES
are sure to give entire satisfaction.
We illustrate a Choice Tan Box Calf Bal.,
with stout soles. Very comfortable and well
finished.
Price - 301-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men's Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
EVERY USER HAS A GOOD WORD
for the New White Tread
D
THE REASON IS NOT FAR TO SEEK.
There’s the extra quality of the thick white tread, the rubber being so tough that it does
not cut or chip, giving that gradual smooth wearing down—that means thousands of
miles of satisfactory service. Few makers in the world put the high grade rubber into a
cover that we do-or as much of it. Great Strength in Casing. The stability of a
cover—to withstand continual road shocks for thousands of miles-depends on the quality
and strength of canvas used. The Dunlop casing not only contains heavier cotton but
usually a ply more than imported covers. We recognise its necessity on our roads, and
—despite extra cost of manufacture— put it in. As regards mode of manufacture, the
latest and best scientific methods are used— no maker can or does give you better.
SUMMED UP— in “DUNLOPS” you get a better wearing tread, a stronger casing,
and equal workmanship -and when you purchase same it costs you less per mile
than when imported tyres are fitted, because in their case YOU PAY heavy
import duties, freight, etc., for which you get no return.
FIT “DUNLOPS” AND GET EXCELLENT WEAR
AND FULL VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
STOCKED IN GROOVED, THREE RIBBED, AND RUBBER
NON-SKID, BY ALL LEADING CARAGES
, AND AGENTS.
1
asss
c
eg
I
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. K All States and N.Z.
Gear Bulletin, — In 1913-14, just before
the Mad Dog of Europe got oil the chain,
Australia’s seven Governments spent
£69,000,000; for 1915-16 their total expen-
diture, apart from the war, will be
£81,000,000. In 1913-14 the Federal Gov-
ernment scraped along with a peace expen-
diture of £23,161,000; for 1915-16 it cannot
manage (leaving the war out of account)
with less than £32,585,000. The total annual
expenditure of our numerous Governments
at present is about £180,000,000. What I
want to know is: What is going to happen
when the false prosperity, engendered by the
fact that £80,000,000 of borrowed money is
now being spent on defence, vanishes like
the baseless fabric of a dream? —Yours,
Copy Boy.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
li.
J m -~
xr *■ fr9Jr*J
t: m
I \
SA/R
■ & ,
* >{ 'I \ \ I '/ £^‘?>
,\
.-^#“sl
St\?i
>w
\N. «£
'Sj|
•A>A
ppgi
i§
•*&7
■#
, 3
'/AAA
m
sea
m$
%??
ArA
y^4
m
'Q&
A'
fM
m
m
m
mm
tMpM
. m
mm
m
m
*.>-j
wmm.
m
■M
I
WIJ
s&z
mm
;AS;
H!
§fsl
zr
imm
\aa-
tm
$.!&
Pvw
-■'■■-
~../
%
o
mm
o
C>
£
1
sfj
rjL
/.
aa
ES&x
m
r y
■n
mm
s*3
5s
: .=;
tAp;
f'S
A .:'
m
s'4
m
m
m
#fl
*£§§
’wk
@o*
95
55
l\
igs
>5
mm>
m
: S
tlh
§£§
A
m
m,*
S 5
S2KS
v/.;
Sc
55
f»:
\
jr.4
A
ffi®
\
A a
m
mm
AS
skST
/«sw
*yi?
/ f m
/
-..ELI
“Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Back from trenches
Takes his due
Time for rest with
Dog and Bear,
And the good French
o
Do their share.
Comfort here for
Soldiers bright!-
“COBRA” will rest
Well to-night L
D own the road the
Children dance.
Isn’t “COBRA”
Cleaning F ranee?


I ley
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable
ELEY Grand Prlx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless <3> Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
sdf
ELEY
•450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
ƒd
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L° LONDON
The
carburettor, or
"mixer, 11 supplied on
I H C Engines works
perfectly with low-grade
kerosene, and in small
size Engines, 4 to 20 b.h.j
will produce the cheapest
power of any engine suitable
for general use.
Gives immediate start on
benzine —no waiting for
vaporizer to heat —no
dangerous open flame.
Without doubt the latest
and the best.
Ask for particulars.
International Harvester Co.
of Aus. Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane-—Sydney “Melbourne
Adelaide Perth
Launceston.
175)
GREAT DANGER OF INSECT BITES.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by Using NEV-A-BITE.
A Preparation of Proved Effectiveness.
“There is no question,” says a leading specialist,
“that insect bites may lead to great danger to
health, and have been known to end fatally.”
fd
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect bite
might set up such
serious inflamma-
tion as to cause blood-poisoning, and —as every-
one well knows—blood-poisoning may lead to
even the amputation of a limb.
_ The best form of treatment of mosquito
bites is prophylactic or preventive. The appli-
cation of a little of the NEV-A-BITE
lotion reduces the probability of mosquito bites
to a minimum.
NEV-A-BITE is a perfectly harmless
preparation, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
If NEV-A-BITE is unobtainable from
your local supplier, send 1/- in stamps to one
of the following, viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane. [2
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
MRS: A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
F.I.A.T. WHAT DOES IT MEAN
Many persons are curious to know what the letters P.I.A.T.
mean. The answer is—They are the initials of the Firm’s name,
Fabrica, Italiana Automobili Torina.
But it has another meaning for the motorist—it proclaims a
Motor Car which embodies all the cardinal virtues—
Strength, Reliability, Durability,
Economy & Comfort.
You can get all of these by purchasing a F.I.A.T. The first
cost may be a little more, but it is worth it. You save in repairs
and worry.
Touring Models, latest design, 15-20 h.p., £750.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
SOLE
AGENTS
GARRATTS LTD., 173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
%
i# i
THERE is something most satisfactory about
having on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather, which always
looks well and goes so beautifully with every
colour and every fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no small share
of smartness and tone to one’s spring suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally, charming. For
Bostock shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure.
Bostock No.
P 6 377
sfd
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
829
Sold at all leading stores,
the name “Bostock” on
Look for
the soles.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
DRY CLEAN YOUR WHITE AND COLORED FOOTWEAR.
Ladies, dry clean your canvas and suede shoes, and your cloth-topped boots, with
BOSTOCR’S DRY CLEANER.
it is easy, quick, lasting and satisfactory.
Colors: White, Black, Brown, Champagne, Buff, Light and Dark
Grey, and Khaki. PRICE 6d.
BO STOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney
fd
fds
fdsfd
sfd
sfd
p
'THE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
X depends the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
Poorness of Blood is called Anaemia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched .and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome —the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general “fitness" and well-being.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote “ Impoverished blood can be made rich and good
“by means of Iron ' Jetlo ds ,’ the most effective and desirable treatment ,
A FORTNIGHT'S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
For Anaemia in Women IKON 'JELLOIDS’ No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON ’JELLOIDS’ No. 2A.
For Growing Children ... IRON‘JELLOIDS’No. 1.
Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6.. Large size 3/-
Manufactured only by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205, City Road. London, England.
(Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
“Stargazer” : I don’t think the advertising
experts ever lavished so many endearing
adjectives on a comedy as were thrown away
on “A Full House” before its first appear-
ance at Melbourne lioyal. After its disappear-
ance that evening the patrons provided the
adjectives. They were not endearing. One
infuriated party from the stalls asked me a
hot, indignant question. “What,” said he,
“would happen to the back of the head of a
restaurant-keeper who advertised with fic-
titious gaiety that on a fixed date he was
going to give buyers of seven-and-sixpenny
tickets the brightest and most delightful
dinner that love, ability and cash could
produce, and then, when his tables were
crowded with paying guests, provided noth-
ing but three courses of debilitated and
senile eggs?” The comparison is apt
and perfectly just. “A Full House”
is a three-course meal of vitiated eggs.
It is the sort of play that could not
continue for five minutes if every character
in it were not utterly insane, and when all
was over I had the feeling of satiety one
might expect to be afflicted with after staring
for two hours through the pickets surround-
ing a madhouse, having paid 6s. for the
privilege.
“ J.F.H.” from London :
Among the many things the Kaiser has strewn
about is the London dramatic season. Nobody can
say now where it begins or ends. Before Bill broke
loose it always came to a close at the end of July,
and the papers then reviewed its results. Some of
them through force of habit have continued the old
custom while admitting that the war has made a
hash of times and seasons. The Daily Telegraph,
the morning paper that gives the greatest space , to
the theatres, alleges that “the plays of the past
season have been vastly better than we had a right
to expect,”' and singles out for special praise Dot
Bcucicault’s production of Somerset Maugham’s
“Caroline” —'“a brilliant piece of light comedy.”
The Referee declares that, in spite of eroak-
ings and taxes and the absence of young men at
the Front, the theatre has not only kept, going but
has actually advanced in art, usefulness and popu-
larity. It dwells on “The Tiger’s Cub,” the full-
blooded Canadian melodrama of primeval passions,
in which Madge Titheradge made a hit. The season
was remarkable, too, for four pronounced Anglo-
American successes —“Peg o’ My Heart,” which
holds the record for war-time runs; H. B. Irving’s
“The Barton Mystery”; Doris Keane’s “Romance”/;
and the amusing “Daddy Longlegs,” written by
Mark Twain’s lately-deceased daughter, Joan Webster.
“For war-time an amazingly fruitful season” 'is
the verdict of the Referee.
“Yarra Ben”: All eyes at the hash-house
breakfast-table were turned on the new arri-
val as he took his seat. He was every inch
a mummer, from the property spats on his
boots to the grease-paint on his coat-collar.
He ran his fingers through his well oiled
mane, and after giving his order to the
waitress he fixed the young man opposite
with his eye. “This is the sixth boarding-
house in this city that has sheltered me
during as many weeks,” he confided in a
stage whisper. The youth did not seem to
be impressed; he resumed his chop and
drawled, “Why?”. The tragedian seemed non-
plussed for a second or two by the question.
Then, with a shrug that sent his padded
shoulders up to his ears, he answered: “I
have the-a cursed-a wanderlust in my blood !”
and started on his porridge.
Exit Major D’Arcy Edwardes, only son of
the late George Edwardes, of London
Gaiety. Young Edwardes was educated at
Eton and Sandhurst, joined the Royal Dra-
goons in 1907 and, after service in India and
S’Africa, went to France in 1914. At the
time of his death he was in command of a
battalion of the Welsh Regiment.
Clyde Meynell assures London inter-
viewers that things theatrical in Australia
are wonderfully well, thank you, consider-
ing. J.C.W., Ltd., had, however, called off
its South African branch because “we found
it needed more attention on the spot than
we could give it.”
Australian composer and pianist Percy
Grainger has provided something to head
the list of “novelties” to be presented at the
next series of Promenade Concerts at London
Queen’s Hall. The latest thing he has
turned out he calls “Clog Dance: Handel in
the Street” —an enigmatic title that has set
the cockneys wondering. The Star sug-
gests that it ought to have a secondary ex-
planatory title such as “Or Have a Banana.”
“O. Blin” : Fred Penley. son of the late
W.S., of “Charley’s Aunt,” and a member
of the Whip Co. which appeared in Australia
a few years ago, is a guest of the Queen of
Holland. Fred held a commission in Wim
ston Churchill’s brave but immaterial Naval
Contingent which tried to stiffen the defence
of Antwerp. In the subsequent chaos he
and a number of others escaped into Hol-
land and were promptly wired-in for safe
keeping at Groningen. Recently the monot-
ony of his internment was lightened. Jby. the
allowance of a few days’ leave on parole in
England—a‘ special concession granted on
account of illness.
STANZAS COMPOSED AFTER A BOUT WITH
CULTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The audience was sad to see,
Its ties “made up,” its pants not pressed ;
Its women were, it seemed to me,
In cretonne curtains mostly dressed;
And in the intervals no bioke
Went from his seat to have a smoke.
The play had cobwebs in its hair,
The plot a wreath of whiskers wore,
Its puppets came on, pair by pair,
And talked and sighed, and talked some more ;
In slippered feet the dull-eyed cast
Went shuffling through the moss-grown past.
I snorted loud in righteous scorn,
And went home with an aching head.
I seized my papers in the morn
To find out what the critics said.
It was, both rags informed me, a
“Typical repertory play” !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OH.


* -*Y
mM 0b
£
If your Baby Is fretful and
does not sleep well you
may be sure it is in pain.
Most of baby’s troubles are caused by
teething, wind, colic. indigestion,
diarrcehea and many other slight ail-
ments.
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY 13
FISHERS
TEETH ING
P OWD E R S
(MATRICARIA.)
Thousands of mothers know no other.
You can try them with confidence and
safety. Guaranteed not to contain any
poisonous or injurious ingredients. Your
friends will recommend them.
In (20 powders V-
Boxes (60 ” Z r 6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREB
337 QEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
sdf
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing- Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
sfd
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phono man y times as efficient
iueaia mi t nune and powerfu i as t h e old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
'The Ndm*iy\
{Wf \
o/ th»
tl
0 The Greeks under-
'stoodLuxuriousßathing
Marble baths, perfumed waters,.'
and massage in gorgeous sur-
roundings were their practices.
One bottle of
, YARDLEY’S
EAU-DE-COLOGNE
is the modern equivalent of all their
paraphenalia, and is
equally delightful
after surfing in the
open, or when added
I to the indoor bath
\ water.
Done in
London
since
• 1770.
8 New Bono ST,
London. ,
ill mi mmi'ij*
m
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter s Little
Liver Pills(purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
sfd
CARTE®
UTTLE
IVER
PILLS*
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or faded
hair, stimulate its growth and make it soft
and glossy with this simple recipe, which
they can mix at home. To a half-pint of water
add loz. of bay rum and 1 small box of
Orlex Compound. These ingredients can
be purchased at any chemist’s at very little
cost. Apply to the hair every other day
until the grey hair is darkened sufficiently.
This mixture relieves itching and is excel-
lent for dandruff. It does not stain the
scalp, is not sticky or greasy and does not
rub off. It will make a grey-haired person
look 10 to 20 years younger.”— Advt. [3
ijSjO v
MALTED f 4 * l *
MALTED*—
r
i
ASK FOR ®
HORLICK'S ftT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
r Medical
Opinion
is unanimous that
Horlick’s Malted
Milk contains all the
essentials of a Per-
fect Food-Drink
(Milk, Wheat and Malt). It is
easily digesteJ, very nutritious,
and most palatable,
HORLICICS
MALTED
MILK
Write for sample, sending' 2d. in
stamps, to Hutchinson & Co. Ltd.,
26 Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd.. Lome St., Auck-
land, & Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
Thirst
Don’t be! All you need is a
wax=wrapped packet of this
delicious chewing sweet
WRIGLEYSw
SPEARMINT I
It’s refreshing, soothing and
cooling. When you’re dry
and hot it hits the spot. It
helps appetite and digestion.
3d. per -packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Ask for free copy of “ WRIGLEY’S MOTHER GOOSE ”
Book.
BE SURE ITS
WRICLEY’S!
m
A
O
O
G
Made in Australia
for Austral ans
by Australians
Ohew it after every meal!
'£
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy,, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hoe tilt character ) will bt
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stumps accompany.
Richard Jackson: Richard, you should
use a typewriter when you want to send to
the papers protesting against conscription. When
you write with the pen, every letter you form gives
you away. You are as German as Wilhelm the
Kaiser. .. .Volunteer: Oh, no, we haven’t joined the
conscription howlers. The conscription howlers have
joined us. We’ve been howlers for conscription for
10 years.... Amateur: The problem would offer fine
picnic opportunities for a Royal Commission for a
couple of years... .J.W.: “Gas attack” very mild
sort of assault... .F. 1.: There’s a thrill in the
finish; hut you’ve put it through the chaff-
cutter and got the pieces all mixed....
H.A.C.K.: Commonplace. .. .Leg-fancier : Nearly.
....Anti-French: No wonder j’ou were ashamed to
sign your name to it. . . .A.G.C.: It’s an awful screed.
. ...W.H.W.: Lame verse that wobbles out a feeble
argument. .. .A.T.W.: Not enough 5ki11.... Hunter’s
Hill: Sloppy verse with no force or originality....
H.: “Soldier’s Funeral” can’t move us.... Hue: Plain
insanity.... Roslyn: Correct, hut feeble.... George
M.: Overworked idea.... Doric: Verse submitted
has no merit. Impossible to say if there
is promise. If she has it in her to write, you
couldn’t stop her with a machine-gun. .. .W.J.8.:
“Soldier’s Morn” is crude stuff... .A.R.D.: “Great
Dead Heart” has points, but not enough of them....
Lizard: Can’t see that the mere fact that a heavy
man stood on a compositor’s toe demanded all that
preface... .M.M.S.: Yarn as bad as handwriting, and
that’s saying something... .D. 8.: Alphabet no good.
....Joan: Not our style. Pleasing magazine
stuff.... Quondong: Cheerful, but not enough in
it. .. .E. 8.. “Away from Home” doesn’t work. You’ll
have to practise a bit before you can fly. ~.A.R.G.:
Foundation of a story, hut you didn’t build on it. . . .
G. : Verse well written, but utterly common-
place.... No Name: Conscription rhyme 0ut....
Macarthev: You can't make verse without taking
some trouble. . . .Seeds: If Catts said it he didn’t tell
che truth. There is no censorship of conscription
stuff. That was expressly agreed upon before the
campaign. To be quite frank, eonseriptionists in-
sisted upon it. They knew that they could
meet every argument that the antis could
produce; and -they weren’t going to allow
the antis to bluff the public with the yarn
that their strongest arguments were suppressed....
Block 10: Poverty of ideas isn't balanced by wealth
of humps.... NAY.: A bit lame. .. .M.A.S.: The
occasion called for a heftier curse than that....
J.C.Y.: “Only son” idea better worked last week.
. ...-T.D.: Wliat is a “myrmidion,” John?....
E. : It’s a long way below standard....
H. : Slight idea, and we had hard digging to
get to it....8.G.: As much of it as can be read is
hopeless.... Reybo: Doesn’t strike u5....A.R.:
Don’t want parodies, and yours isn’t a very good one.
. ...A.S.: “The Avenging” nearly did it.... Anar-
chist: Mad fragment has us beaten... .M.O’D.: Tame
yell, about as original as a politician’s balcony
prance... .R.S.: “Boys from Burra wang” misses....
Bracken: We’d never waste that space on them....
Myponga: Not up. . . .J. 8.: “Better the naked fire
of former days.” The fire’s naked enough in North-
ern France to satisfy most people. .. .M.A.: River’s
anger can’t move us in these days of blood and
tears.... W.R.M.: And so the Governor got in a
bad temper and nothing happened. What an epic!
. ...A.B.St.: One wobbling bit spoiled its slender
chance. ... E.M.: “Bill” doesn't look Australian....
F. : There's an idea, hut you miss the humor of
that plague of truth. .. .A.8.C.: Not for us; might
sell elsewhere... .R. 8.: Journey too long to obvious
conclusion. .. .W.K.: Moderately well done; but
theme is old and overworked... .E. 8.: That dream
idea as a motive for enlistment has been already
tried on us 596 times.. . ..J.H.: “.Tourney” shows
some good observation, but is hardly worth print.
... .A.N.C.T.: Doesn’t get to anything... .BAY.:
Heroic fleece-picker and unhumorous cat both hurled
forth. .. .Billy True: Amusing, but doesn’t make a
story... .T.L.A.: That's all right, but there’s a mili-
tary censorship still. .. .S.J.C'.: Not our style and a
bit labored, anyhow.. . .Octavia: Not up... .Harry:
Insane parody gets to nothing... .N.A.E.: “Gift
Picture” has points, but not as many as a porcupine.
. ...K.W.: Crude as a raw turnip... .W.M.R.: Too
thin. .. .C.S.: Loose and 10ng... .Sentimental Fencer:
Couldn’t you write about something?... .11. G.:
“Mrs. Mulcahy” is heavy and breathes hard....Buth
Sheba: Some skill, but horrible... .L.R.: Lame little
idea poorly handled.... G.W.: “Reflection’s quivering
dart” won’t whizz here... .G.A.H.: Here’s your Aus-
tralian; and lie’s not too bad:—
.....Tones and Co.: Can’t tell you what relation a
cow is to the motor-car. Maybe six o’clock closing
has something to do with it....A.W.P.: No para-
graph value in that.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.N.8.: Nothing in it but the doddering old
Emperor... .Kay: Weak stuff... .J.F.: The idea is
g00d... .M.E.: They’re just 14 years young....
M.A.H.S.: Hopeless... .K. 8.: Your Adam and Eve
are the wrong shapes... .J.W.: They fail with a
crash... .L.R.T.: Dreary items... .K.G.: Wooden.
October 15 was the centenary of the
birth of old Jock Robertson, five times Pre-
mier of X. S. Wales. He died 25 years
ago.
The Victorian Government is hitting up
the bookmakers for some of the cash it
wants. The scheme is on the lines followed
in N. S. Wales, and Peacock reckons on
thereby raising about £70.000. The tax
ranges from £5O on licenses issued for the
V.R.C. grandstand enclosure to £5 on
licenses for the small fry at outside meet-
ings. Also betting tickets are to bear a
stamp. The howl from Ike has. of course,
been loud and long, but no one pays much
attention to him. except those people who
wonder why the < Jovernment objects to
making a clean job of it and giving the
tote an innings. The Government’s explana-
tion is that a bill to legalise the machine
“could not be passed this session.” Well,
there was last session, and Peacock knew
then that he was hard up. And there will
be next session and a Peacock more busted
than ever.
lie’s as sincere as a truthful child.
But beware, thou who work injustice.
Beware if you make him wild.
For thou his anger, fierce and Idaok,
Would shame a wounded tiger
Or a snake with a broken back.


Model
84 B
Y).
&
'd
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Europe’s Favourite Motor Car Engine
At a Price Within Your Reach
European manufacturers have spared no expense to determine what type
of engine will give the quietest, smoothest, longest and most constant service.
The leading European makers have selected the Knight type engine.
The Daimler, the Panhard, the Hinerva all have the Knight type engine
—and all are very expensive.
The Willys-Overland Company are able, because of their immense pro-
duction, to put the Willys=Knight motor=car on the market at a price far
below any other Knight motored car.
Yet the engine is the same Knight design used in all the leading European
cars. It is just as sturdy, just as quiet, just as smooth-running, just as efficient.
And the price is easily within your reach.
Ride in one of these remarkable motor-cars. Call us to-day. We will
gladly arrange a demonstration and tell you of tide many advantages of the
Knight engine—and the Willys-Knight motor-car.
Complete Catalogues on Request from—
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney .
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne .
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U. S.A.
Cable Address—Overlandis, Toledo (A. B. C. sth: General, Western Union and Lieber Codes)


Shipping:.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine
ORAMA .. Triple-Screw.
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
.Twin-Sci
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12.130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabinss-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
1 livate Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries,
irnrnrt sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
"CAIRNS
("Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 21.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 25.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 28.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 1.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 4.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Oct. 28
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMIT El).
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
NEW
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £Bs^ooo
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Svdnev
LONDON' OFFICE: 37 ThreadneedlcStreet, E.C.
DIREGIORS Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman:
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F
Topmast, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth.
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 C
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 212,000 0 (
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Slock 3,091.669 4 £
All new business since IMS specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman)
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. •
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial ganking (Jo.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
. . £2,000,000
. . 1.875,000
. . 2,000,000
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes. M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq.; and F. W. Hixson, Esq
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S. Littleton
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State- of New South Wale-
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
'E*®. “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
KAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, . PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Steamers
t MAKURA
‘NIAGARA
t MAKURA
‘NIAGARA
t Twin Screw.
Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry.
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 9th November. *MOANA, 7th December.
‘Connecting steamers leave Sydney—3rd November, 30th November.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
, of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America —
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Tours to Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
sf
Something' Unique in
mm
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors
£3,500,000
£2,675,000
£3,500,000
£9,675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.O
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shejjheard Edged iff Laidlev, Esq. ; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian Slates, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
. -T. RCSSiELL FRENCH. Genera] Manager. '
Commomrealtl'
I HEAID OFFICE
sfd
JBanMustralta
SYDNEY. ■
Open
•for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Townsof Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated, 1 ' and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At a.ll Branches, and over
2600 A » encies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISOX MILLER, Governor
sfds
{//
Interest —with
Government
Guarantee—for
Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution.
This Bank has 132 Branches in the City of Sydney, the principal Suburbs and
Country Towns, as well as 500 s Agencies.
Hoad Office,
11 Moore Street, Sydney.
12th October, 1916.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES,
Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Oct. 20 and Nov. 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, Oct. 21.
PARINGA, Oct. 28.
RUPARA, Nov. 4.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL, & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY'.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
, and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:-
OCT. 25, NOV. 15, DEC. 6, DEC. 27.
Applyr-OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane : MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and,*
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
l WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Mnnvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with -one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
-reamer. ±: 0 B>. (hi.: second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly .removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper &Co. , Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.


m
-
i
Carry your Car on
MICHEUNS
(The famous French Tyres).
MICHELIN can give you
regular deliveries.
MICHEUNS—The Best
Therefore the most Economical.
Help MICHELIN
to
CARRY ON
the
Good Work.
MICHELIN has given £40,000 to further the work of French Military
Aviation, and is manufacturing 100 Aeroplanes, which he
is giving to the French Government, representing an
approximate cost of £lOO,OOO.
MICHELIN also proposed the establishment of the “FLYING SERVICE
FUND” for the benefit of British Aviators and their de-
pendents, giving £l,OOO to start the fund —also gave £BOO
to the Prince of Wales’ Fund —and has given to date
£120,000 to the dependents of his employees who are
< fighting for the Allies.
MICHELIN is manufacturing shells and bombs for aeroplanes, etc.,
and is also helping by his large supplies of tyres to the
British, French, Belgian and Italian Armies.
MICHELIN has established and maintains a hospital of 320 beds for
the wounded, costing to date £30,000 —has paid share-
holders in War Loan —and has made advances to his
staff who have to sth December subscribed £202,012 in
War Loan and £5,520 to Fund for parcels for the Troops,
i Many other things could be added to this list.
MICHELIN TYRES
17. A. 1617
Can be obtained at all the leading garages.
ffiOdl
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A USTRALIAN AGENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
The Lake Breeze Motor
fdsfd
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
sfd
A£l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 Georgre Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
sfd
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AItABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
sdf
€€ocs 4 4 f *
pRFECmNjnDESIGMfATERIAIS an* WORI^ANSHI^
*
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
-
1
The“SKANDI A”in THE HEBRIDES
“MALEKOLA” and “AHAMB,”
25 Tons. 17 Tons.
20 h.p. 13h.p.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loft us Street,
SYDNEY.
A case for
Wi'ncarnis \
XJC
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
—the red to nourish the
body, the white to fight
disease, in Anaemia—or
bloodlessness the red
corpuscles are more or less
deficient. Thus the blood
cannot provide sufficient
nourishment for the body.
Therefore the face be-
comes white and " pasty "
—t he eyes become dul lan d
“heavy”—and a feeling
of intense weariness per-
vades the whole system.
To overcome Anaemia,
the blood supply needs re-
charging with red corp-
uscles. And it is here that
ƒd
possesses such wonderful
power Because being a
blood-maker, ‘Wincarnis
creates a wealth of new
rich, red blood, which
brings therosesback tothe
cheeks—gives a sparkle to
the eyes—and surcharges
the whole body with new
vitality and That
is why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘ Wincarms.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
* Wincarnis ' is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarn s Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘ Wincarnis ’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/• and 6/6, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to- Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 5/7 Barrack St., Sydney.
.
m
liTi
ID
George hotel
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. , Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, -and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should lead the British Austral-
asian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ar.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


NO MORE FAT PEOPLE.
Most fat people seem to think that the
only way to take off fat is to use dangerous
drugs, follow a starvation diet or take stren-
uous exercise. But all this is nonsense, and.
thanks to the recent discovery of an eminent
scientist, thousands of men and women are
taking off several pounds of useless fat a
week by simply rubbing on to the fat part—
hips, arms, chin or abdomen—a simple lotion
made by pouring a cup of hot water over a
dram of quassia chips; let it stand for a
minute, then strain through a cloth and add
3oz. of Cirola Bark Extract. Pour the mix-
ture into a bottle and apply night and morn-
ing, rubbing it in with the hands for about
10 minutes, using a circular motion, and tin*
fat will almost seem to melt away before
your very eyes. The ingredients, which are
inexpensive, may be had of any chemist, and
the results to be obtained are really remark-
able. — Advt.
Motorists’Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us —you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A Good Carpet
is not necessarily expensive.
‘‘Where you rest, there decorate,” said Rftslun.
Where does the average Australian take rest I—is 1 —is it not in
the Dining Room, the Living Room? Then*; let us give
consideration to the decorating of the. Dining Room with
Carpets and Rugs. A Linoleum coveting is necessary, il
the floor be not polished; and then. say. a Velvet Pile
Carpet Square. One measuring 9ft. x 9ft. costs £4/5/-.
One measuring 13ft. x 9ft. costs £5/5/-. After all. that is
very little!
An Axminster Square, measuring 10ft. 6in. x 9ft. —
quite a big square, that is—can be supplied for £6/10/-.
Because they are so rich and beautiful some folk get the
idea that Carpets are expensive—you can see that such is
not the case. May we send a Price List of Carpets ?
John Hicks & Company Ltd.
George and Ann Streets, Brisbane.
IN
BANANA LAND
Cauc-us has handed Harry Coyne £lOOO a
year and the portfolio of Railways, vice
Adamson, who resigned because he refused
to play Germany’s game by keeping silent
on the conscription question. Coyne spruiks
for Warrego in the Assembly, and was the
Napoleon of the tramway strike of 1912.
Until lately he has been Chairman of Com-
mittees, which dignified job has turned the
rabid strike-leader into as moderate, diffi-
dent and hardworking a politician as
Bananaland owns.
Costs having wrangled at Melbourne over
the matter for three weeks and fallen back
exhausted, the High Court had sufficiently
recovered by the beginning of the week to
announce that it intended to give judgment
in favor of the State in the action Duncan
and Trotman v. Bananaland. This is the
case that was to decide the validity of the
legislation and proclamations of the State
Government forbidding the passage of stock
across the border, and the judgment gives
another wallop to section 92 of the Constitu-
tion, which many people thought secured
Freetrade between the States. In a way it
was another “wheat case,” with this dift'er-
eence, that the N.S.W. wheat was taken over
by the Crown and became its absolute pro-
perty, while in Bananaland the Government,
while proclaiming itself trustee of the stock,
left the stock proprietors’ ownership allegedly
unaltered. The case in its original form was
a claim for damages by the owners of Moora-
berie station, who wanted damages for hav-
ing been obliged to sell various animals at
from £7 to £ll in Bananaland when they
eould have got £l2 to £l9 for them at Adel-
aide. The Commonwealth Government in-
tervened, and a special case was stated In-
justice Isaacs for the High Court, this
being practically a contest between the State
and Federal authorities. And the Federa-
tion has been outed. It was not very clear
whether the prohibition of stock crossing the
border rested on the Meat for Imperial Uses
Act or the Sugar Acquisition Act. But it
doesn’t matter, anyhow. Australia is one
country and has seven Governments, and sec-
tion 92 has another large gaping hole. And
the need to put the Constitution in the pot
is greater than ever.
“Richmond”: Seems to me that artesian
bores give a bigger flow during the night-
time than they do through the day. Where
the water is just trickling over the top of
the bore-head it is the custom to place a
flat|stOne over part of the casing to make the
watfr shoot out clear, and I have repeatedly
noticed in the morning that the stone has
been pushed off as if a greater flow had come
up during the night. These instances have
occurred where it has been impossible for
stock to get to the bore-head and elbow the
stone away.
“Dead Finish”: On Abingdon station, in
the Gulf country, Jim Harvey, a drover, who
was to lift some hornies, lost a couple of his
horses. He went out one morning looking
for them and returned in two and a half
days with the missing nags. During that
period he bad had nothing to eat, but water
was plentiful. It was all forest country,
with gravelly ridges, which made it hard for
tracking. This is looked on as a pretty good
performance out here, but perhaps they can
do it better in Melbourne.
Treasurer Theodore declares that com-
pulsory service is the greatest fraud ever
foisted on Democracy. He proposes to
sweep away every vestige of the cursed
thing from his own Department. In future
nobody will be compelled to furnish him
•with any money. It will be left entirely to
the Fatman to say whether he will pay land
and income taxes. Filielly, the Minister of
Justice, who agrees with Theodore, has also
issued instructions that no compulsion is to
be used with regard to the collection of
fines. The drunk and disorderly having-
pleaded guilty, the P.M. has received in-
structions to say to the prisoner: "As to a
fine, I’ll leave it to you.” The same Demo-
cratic policy is to be annlied by brother
Lennon in the Stock and Agriculture De-
partment. Nobody is to be compelled to
destroy either rabbits or prickly-pear. Bro-
ther Lennon has decided that, as the volun-
tary principle is quite good enough to rely
upon to carrv reinforcements to save Ins
son at the Front, it is more than good
enough to rely upon to save people from the
spread of prickly-pear and rabbits. Brother
Hardacre, of the Education Department, has
a Bill in hand to abolish compulsory
attendance at school: and when Bill Hamil
INCURABLE.
THE BOSS: “Well, Jacky, do you feel better after that drop of rum I sent you?"
THE INVALID: “Not much, Boss. When I drink it rum pain all go away, when I no
drinkit pain all come back. Mine thinkit, Boss, it’s a plurry chronic cornin’ on.”
ton lias proved himself a good Democrat
and rescinded ihe regulations compelling
mine-owners to provide ventilation, thus
giving the voluntary system a chance,
Queensland will be a perfect paradise for
the working-man.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Said Finlayson, the “anti” crank: —
The demand now is for reinforcements to back up
the men at the Front, and to assure them that they
shall have whatever support is necessary. We must
see that those men are adequately supported. The
only honest recruiting agent is the anti-conscription-
ist because, being opposed to forcing men, if he
tells them that they should go —as I believe it is
their duty to do—he does everything ’ possible to
induce them to go.
The moral of which preposterous utterance
is that the way to persuade an unwilling
man to enlist is to tell him he needn’t, and
the surest way of procuring the necessary
adequate reinforcements is by loudly
declaring that it isn’t anybody’s duty to do
his duty by his country if he doesn’t want
to do it. Some men are born anti; some
achieve anti-ism through family influence;
others have it forced upon them by the
1.W.W.,j operating through the P.L.L. or
P.L.C. Finlayson was born that way, per-
haps.
[Edmund Fisher, Bulletin branch office, Mel-
bourne.]
John Adamson is getting a fine reward
for his lifelong service for Labor. Actually
he has had to leave the Cabinet for being
a good Australian. Last week, in Bunda-
berg, whilst walking from a conscription
meeting, an infuriated opponent crept be-
hind him and knocked him unconscious, a
typical “anti” argument which cost the
responsible coward two months’ hard.
“Dead Finish”: North Queenslanders
have great difficulty in keeping white ants
out of ornamental and fruit trees. The fol-
lowing is the best preventive. Take a few
pieces of pine board, soak in arsenic water,
and bury just under the ground near the
tree. The ant sharpens his beak on this
board and throws a seven. His cobbers,
being Cannibals, try their teeth on the
slaughtered, and also pass put, and the
white hordes do not reach the tree. Dig-
ging dry arsenic into the ground acts well,
but is not as reliable. Pouring arsenic
water around spells ruin.
“Fitzroy": One species of Bananaland
brigand is feeling uneasy. This is the free-
booter who imports and sells seeds. For
years he has been getting consignments of
rubbish which were supposed to produce
grain and artificial grasses. The stuff was
unloaded on to the simple cocky, who
ploughed, harrowed and sowed, and then
looked to the future with hope. When
nothing came up he cursed the climate.
When lie was rewarded with a crop of weeds
he damned the soil. Half a century late
came the Pure Seeds Act, and Bananaland
is lucky enough to have it administered by a
man who takes an interest in his job. All
imported seed is these days bailed up at .port
of entry, and has to prove, its respectability.
Now the storekeeper who retails seed to the
small farmer is also receiving attention.
An official of the Department has been tour-
ing the country districts. When he asked
for seed for sowing he got it—at top price.
When he came out in his true colors and a
prosecution loomed in the distance, the stuff
immediately became birds’ seed. At one
store there were about three tons of “birds’
seed.” Another firm, in order to prove that
the shopman had sold birds’ seed by mistake,
sent down to the Agricultural Department a
sample of “pure seed.” The firm’s lawyer
announced this fact with all the confidence of
securing the final trick. “What do you think
of that?” asked the Bench. “Well,” said the
prosecution, “they had better plead guilty.
The seed they sent down was worse than the
tyther lot.”
Drifting Dreams.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thin black masts on a pale gold sky....
Could we tether the dream that goes drift-
ing by
I would tie white sails to those thin black
masts
And hie to an island where dreaming lasts,
Over the red of the falling sun
Over the ash of a day that’s done.
Green fields, lush on a burning day ;
Blue air precious with scent of hay ;
Could we keep the peace of the musky wood
And make it part of a constant mood.
I think we could smother all tears away
Under the piles of the new-mown hay.
A sunny garden a-foam with bloom ;
Roses rioting there for room :
Lush green fields where the shadows lie;
Thin black masts on a pale gold sky....
But never a ravelled rope, that I
Might tether the dreams that go drifting by !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 14, 1916.
My Dear Thargomjndah, —
Our patriotic whim this week took the
form of laying the foundations of a league
to promote the sale of Australian-made
goods, or in their absence goods manufac-
tured elsewhere in thy Empire. Lady Goold-
Adams laid the corner-stone of the scheme
well and truly. “The Austral ian-Bntish
League" was the inscription.
A "Soldiers’ Queen” fete enlivened Vic-
toria Barracks tins afternoon. There were
no complaints. Spring girls were early on
the job, as usual, and what they don’t know
about trawling pockets on behalf of the
Boys in Brown their grandmas couldn’t
teach them. The catch went to the benefit
of the Returned Soldiers’ Residential Club.
That reminds me that many well-wishers
felt sore on hearing that only members of
the Returned Soldiers' Association are to
be allowed to use the Club. Women who
worked hard for its establishment fully
expected that any Australian lad home from
the battle line would be welcomed, and when
a whisper escaped a member of the R.S.A
that only men of “strong moral character”
were to be allowed to enjoy its hearthstone
even the most conservative of the Ladies’
Committee reached for her hat-dagger. I’ve
been making breathless inquiries as to the
exact brand of "moral” character that was
demanded of Billzac prior to his rushes at
Gallipoli and Pozieres, but nobody seems to
have the information handy.
The sth Light Horse Comforts Fund has
opened a tea-room as an auxiliary to its
kitchen. Pretty girls in pink frocks serve
the weary and hungry with rosebud smiles
and hand-painted cakes. Cash results are
spent on comforts for the Fifth.
The Queensland Art Society held its 28th
annual exhibition this week. Minister for
Education Hardacre uncorked the show, an
unusually interesting one, on Wednesday
afternoon. Lister Lister sent from Sydney
two water-colors, one a bush scene that
makes you long to shoulder a swag and pad
it out of town, and the other a sample of
the sand dunes at Narrabeen. The sand
looks as though it would trickle through
your fingers. James Crisp, another Sydney
skier, is represented by a flock of his beauti-
ful Australian birds. Queensland’s reputa-
tion is maintained by Oscar Fristrom.
Lancaster, Garnet Agnew, Salvana and
Mrs. Grant, and by Harvey’s wood carving
plaster figuring and oxidised silver plaques.
During the pei’formance of “La Mascotte"
one night this week a hen, appearing in the
farmyard scene, ostentatiously laid an egg
on the stage. Nobody took the spiteful
thing’s tip. On the contrary, bouquets were
plentiful until to-night, when the season
closed.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


<1
WM
f„ w
- Tjy?.- vffJßr
w
i wj
%t|ML _
m. . tlf% /-x
SH
B-^g/4' ’ ■ •S^T
/
X-• x
i"
> -..-
■ ■
X
&*2BM
ftfglfitffg
S. ,2
wmom.
u, *•*.'*
gtfatf&WfiS# 6 * 5 ™
■ ' :
XxX £
MX.I
a'
i-J
lllfx >"LjJff/ .-•* 4r|
■f>< ,-jgffi^gu
-’».,-»> ; - ,_ y
' ' X ;> ' ' , P‘‘W^ t '
I USSI ■ ■ c mm
m »’*§.
V
\ .
v*/
*K*^T>;
e&ffitzi
MP
W
' X X
Carry On ? —rather .
with State Gxpress
f F good tobacco and good
* workmanship count for
anything, you have it in State
Express Cigarettes. The Naval
Man savs so and he knows.
CIGARETTES
. ' . . ' ■ ; *
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
2: 333
STANDARD
WEIGHT
for 6d.
State Express Cigarettes are obtainable at all
fiigh-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers s
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON,
Britain’s Greatest High-class Cigarette and Tobacco Factories.


“Like a Boot
made to order.”
sfd
That may truly be
said of this elegant
model —a typical
English shape in
Patent Coltskin
with dull kid tops.
The soles are close-
welted and the
boot carries every
evidence of refined
style.
Wide or narrow
fittings.
28/0
Tan Willow Calf,
26/-
Eine Glace Kid,
27/6.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringrdon St.
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
DAIMLER
SOTOR CARRIAGES
CoMiWErcial Vehicles ~
Agricultural Tractors
tmc DAIMLER COMPANY w
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
sfd
sfd
Riding Emperors,
Wm
Our Celebrated “IRONBARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price - - 14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allan#Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
Send for sample
of Mellin’s Food
and Handbook
for Mothers
“ The Care of
Infants in Aus-
tralia ” FREE
in his little way. He likes, and must
have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most effi-
cacious equivalent to Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the battle.
Then what a boon to the mother to
use a food which requires no tiresome
cooking or preparation.
MelliiftßNHl
is made in a flash needs no cooking
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
The Union Bank of Australia
LIMITED.
BALANCE-SHEET, February 29, 1916.
LIABILITIES.
Capital,£6,ooo,ooo ;
Less: Reserve lia-
bility thereon,
£4,000,000
paid-up ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 1,960,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits. . 211,373 18 4
£4,171,373 18 4
Circulation .. 334,051 0 0
Deposits .. ..24,055,784 17 6
Bills payable and
other liabilities
(including reserves
held against con-
tingencies) . . 2,123,323 2 1
£26,513,158 19 7
£30,684,532 17 11
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances .. £5,040,774 11 0
Bullion and advances on bullion . . 109,859 10 0
Money at call and short notice in
London .. .. . .. 320,000 0 0
Investments:—
On Account of Reserve Fund—
British Government
securities ..£1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments—-
Stocks or Bonds
of, or guaranteed
by, the British
Govern ment,
£518,389 ; muni-
cipal and other
secu r i t i e s,
£140,505 . . 658,894 0 0
— 1,658,894. 0 0
Investments are valued at either
the minimum or the cash prices
ruling at 29th February, 1916.
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office* . . . . 3,974,207 8 1
£11,103,735 9 1
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and
in- London 19,085,372 16 11
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand 380,600 0 0
London leasehold
premises . . 142,304 19 4
Reserves against
same and ac-
crued interest 27,480 7 5
114,824 11 11
£30,684,532 17 11
Statement of Profits.
Profits for the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful debts
and other contingencies
Less:
Remuneration to the local directors and salaries and
allowances to the colonial staff . . . . . . £H7 163
General expenses in the colonies, including rent, taxes,
stationery, etc. .. . . . . . . . . 66,322
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors,
salaries of London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery,
and general expenses.. .. .. .. 19 760
Income tax .. .. .. .. .. .. -25 427
3 2
9 10
5 10
9 6
From which it is proposed to pay a dividend and bonus amounting to
Undistributed from the profits of the half-year
Balance of undivided profits on 31st August, 1915
Less: Dividend and bonus, February, 1916
Brought forward from 31st August, 1915
Total to be carried forward
£369,517 18 9
•£228,672 8 4
£140,845 10 5
140,000 0 0
. . £210,528 7 11
.. 140,000 0 0
£845 10 5
70,528 7 11
£71,373 18 4
H. P. STURGIS, W. R. MEWBURN, S. R. LIVING STONE-LE ARMONTH, Directors.
A. C. WILLIS, Manager. IV. A. LAING, Accountant.
London, 11th July, 1916.
Auditors Certificate and Report.
In accordance with the provisions of section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act 1908, we
report to the shareholders as follows:
We have examined the above balance-sheet with the books at head office, and have had access to the
branch accounts transmitted to the head office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the
correctness of the cash, money at call and short notice, investments and the bills of exchange held
in London, and, having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of
opinion that such balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the
state of the company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us,
and as shown by the books of the company and the said branch accounts.
WHINNEY, SMITH AND WHINNEY, Chartered Accountants, Auditors.
London, 11th July, 1916.
sfd
sfd
sfd
THE RAZOR FOR YOU
There are hundreds of “New” Razors on the market, but, while Razors
come and Razors go,
THE “PLUM”
retains its position of supremacy through sheer consistency of merit.
The blade is of unmatched keenness. The “Plum” is the Razor for you.
PRICE 10/O—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 307-
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 80 YEARS.
A Mr. J. Burns, one of Melbourne’s feder-
ated ironworkers, has thought of an inverted
‘gag” to suit the young shirkers of to-day.
When their inquisitive offspring, in time to
come, cry “Daddy, what did you do for your
country in 1916?” the proud shirker shall
answer : “My boy, I stayed in Australia to
defend its freedom.” (Loud cheers and much
stamping of cold feet.)
The heretical idea that if a State runs
railways it might also run steamers is
making progress amongst the Speck’s Lib-
erals. The other day the Assembly declared
in favor of a State-owned line of steamers
by 15 to six on a snap division, and the
majority included two Libs., Blyth and
Sadler.
1 When Austin Saqui won the Melbourne
Cup with Warrior in ’O9, he visited England
and brought back his son, John T. Saqui.
The youngster ran a cigar shop, made a
book and became a speculator on ’Change,
but found racing paid better. About 10
years ago he was set upon by a “push” and
so severely injured that he developed a
mental malady. But his bodily health kept
fairly good until lately, and he died only
the other day. He was 62.
At the recent pastoral and agricultural
show at Henty (N.S.W.) five shillings was
offered for the best 41b. of German sausage.
The Bulletin thinks this ought to be
stopped. We’ve got no right to kill them
merely for the sake of winning five shillings.
New definition from the Front: —
Raid: An attack that doesn’t come off.
Although there are a dozen industries
howling loudly for Protection, the Aus-
tralian Government has turned a deaf
ear to all bar one—the great wowse indus-
try. Treasurer Higgs proposes to foster the
manufacture of gloom by means of a stiff tax
upon amusements.
“Inver G.”: Our blockading squadrons
are laughing at themselves as they sweep
the wild North Sea. It’s the dyes again.
In a letter recently read from an officer on
the Australia it is mentioned that when
the wardroom wants to look its smartest
nowadays it puts on whatever pre-war
clobber remains in its sea chest. “These
new blue serges,” he writes, “are the limit.
They look top-hole when they come from
the tailor, and the material in them is as
good as ever. But the dyes! Lord, you
ought to have seen some of our chaps after
a bit of North Sea spray had got on to their
latest togs. The salt turned the blue dye
into patches of purples, reds, greys and all
sorts of in-between tints.”
The Customs Department the other day
dropped on the captain, chief officer and chief
engineer of a trader between South Africa
and Westralia, and the ensuing proceedings
at court interested them to the tune of £7O.
Making a false declaration as to dutiable
goods was the charge, the goods being ostrich
feathers, silk and tobacco. Up to this the
Customs had not gone in hot pursuit of the
revenue lost through ships’ officers turning
smugglers; but those good days are over, and
the poor seafarer will find the burdens of
his life harder to bear than ever. This war
is a curse.
In the Court cases arising out of recent
troubles between the members of the Engine-
drivers and Firemen’s Union and the Broken
Hill Prop, at Newcastle, 11. A. Mitchell
appeared for the company. That fact was
due to a bad habit, common to manv
unions, of ill-using capable officials. Mitcheil
was for very many years secretary of the
Union he now appeared against. When the
organisation first took shape he was the
Union. His energy was responsible for get-
ting the men in ; he bluffed, negotiated and
argued hundreds of agreements out of em-
ployers covering the conditions of a widely-
scattered craft. Probably no man knows
the industrial laws better, or could fight an
odds-against battle with more success. Yet
his reward was a meagre salary and sus-
picion from the men he had benefited. At
one time some of them received a mere 30s.
a week, and they are now amongst the bet-
ter paid of the workers. Finally intrigue
robbed him of his job—and then the
Broken Hill Prop, jumped in and secured a
man with the particular ability it wanted to
deal with its industrial work. It is a pretty
tough job for a Union to go into court with
a yarn that an employer is a skinflint who
underpays his men when there is on view a
man whom it pays nearly twice as much as
the Union reckoned a fair thing for doing
exactly the same kind of work.
The way Billjim humps his bluey through
the army:—
I d’know how it is, but some way, without once
getting into trouble, I’ve been in most units of
the A.I.F. during 24 months’ tedious scrapping. I
left the Infantry to enlist in the Light Horse,
drifted thence to Records, from Records got trans-
ferred to the A.S.C. and thence to the Camel Corps.
Next, because I wanted to do a bit for France, from
Camels to my present Artillery unit. I hope to try
Engineers, Pioneers and Aero in turn. I’ve had all
sorts of rank. Chucking a star in Artillery I rose
from trooper to full corporal of Light Horse; then
to lance-sergeant. In my next move I dropped
back to corporal, and jumped to S.M. Back to
corporal again I worked up to W.O. At present
I m back to corporal. And, bless you, mine’s not
a singular instance. In my old unit is a trooper
who resigned a captaincy; and I could name a
captain and lieutenant of other arms who did the
same to be in the first push and are now respectively
sergeant and lance-corporal. On the other hand,
one of my ex-corporals, who has just made the
stunning discovery that war has been declared,
lobbed here last week as my lieutenant. It paid
him all right to let his feet thaw gradually— very
gradually.
Thomas Strachan, who died lately at
Petersham (N.S.W.), was formerly con-
nected with IL G. Dun and Co., and
was one of the pioneers of “trade protec-
tion” in Australia. But not the pioneer.
In the early ’6o’s, 20 years before Mr.
Strachan arrived, some Melbourne merchants
and traders formed themselves into a Trade
Protection Society, of which Captain Rad-
cliffe, of McClure, Valentine and Co., was
chairman and Joseph B. Coombes secretary.
After a while Mr. Coombes took over the
concern, and with two others, trading as
Coombes, Ledwell and Ellis, carried it on for
many years.


Though a lew “Live to eat,” the great majority
“Eat to live,” but when your digestion is faulty,
eating causes your life to be a misery. To properly
nourish your body your food must be thoroughly
digested and its various constituents pass to the
organs for which they are intended. When this
is not done the food does you no good, but rather
harm, for it lies in your stomach, causing poison-
ous gases and disorders of the stomach —causes
constipation, which means that the food, instead
of being expelled through the bowels, lies there,
and the poisonous matter is absorbed into the
system. All this can be avoided by taking a
course of Chamberlain’s Tablets. They aid diges-
tion, cleanse the stomach, stimulate the liver and
bowels to perform their work, and invigorate the
system in so doing. Chamberlain’s Tablets are
the safest cathartic to take, for they -perform
their work so gently and naturally that there is
no fear of inflammation following.
No one thing is more conducive to good health
than the daily evacuation of the bowels. If your
habit is not regular in this respect you need a
general laxative and tonic, and this is precisely
what you get when you buy an eighteenpenny box
Of Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and
liver. They eliminate all impurities and' tone the
system at the same time.
A disordered stomach may cause no end of
trouble. When the stomach fails to perform its
functions the bowels become deranged, the liver
and kidneys congested, causing numerous dis-
eases, the most fatal of which are painless and
therefore the more to be dreaded. The important
thing is to restore the stomach and liver to a
healthy condition, and for this purpose no better
preparation can be used than Chamberlain’s
Tablets.
If you were able to live just right all the time
there would be little need for medicine, less need
for doctors. But some little thing is constantly
coming along to put us Out of balance—-exposure,
change of diet or drinking water, irregular meals
are little things that will at times upset the
best of us. Nothing particular the matter, but we
don’t feel good. At such times the wise among
us will take a few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets
with certain knowledge that they will put us
right, right away.
Many women habitually suffer from headaches
which make life a daily purgatory. Frequently
they are caused by indigestion, and to relieve
* them permanently you must remove the cause.
For indigestion, biliousness, constipation, dis-
orders of the stomach and liver there is nothing
better than Chamberlain’s Tablets. Headache
cannot exist when Chamberlain’s Tablets are
taken.
Back up a sewer and you will poison the whole
neighborhood, clog up the liver and bowels and
your system is full of undigested food, which
sours and ferments—this means indigestion, head-
ache, bad breath, yellow skin and everything that
is horrible. Chamberlain’s Tablets quickly stop
fermentation in the stomach, and they make the
liver lively, tone up the bowels and set the whole
machinery going.
Much ill-health is due to impaired digestion. If
the stomach fails to perform its functions the
whole system becomes deranged. A few doses of
Chamberlain’s Tablets is all you need. They will
strengthen your digestion, stimulate your liver
and regulate your bowels, entirely removing that
miserable feeling due to faulty digestion. Cham-
berlain’s Tablets have relieved many people who
have been acute sufferers from indigestion, so
why not give them s chance to relieve you?
It is not natural to have that tired feeling day
in and day out, that you go to bed with at night
and get up with in the morning—-it is a sure sign
that your system is out of order. To refresh
yourself and regain that strong, vigorous feeling
you should take a course of Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets. They will strengthen your stomach and
stimulate your liver and bowels to renewed
activity: although you have not realised it, it is
these organs that have caused that tiyed feeling.
There is no better medicine made for all disorders
of the stomach, liver and bowels than Chamber-
lain’s Tablets.
Wf,,
iM*.
r?,
X
\
c
r 3
\
2
ra 'i
©
a
&r
m
y2*~/*~f
DvEf&p/iPtt Pictures
by-
£h AMEEf?LNN'S
Tablets -
One can never tell what day some member
of the family will come home sick.
Most people suffer more or less from
stomach, liver or intestinal trouble in
some form.
You never know what day some mem-
ber of your family will come home sick.
Sooner or later one of them will be
attacked with indigestion, become con-
stipated. suffer from biliousness,
jaundice, bloated, sour or weak stomach,
bad breath, lazy liver, sick headache or
some kindred ailment.
Then you will need a safe and speedy
medicine to give immediate relief.
It is then that Chamberlain’s Tablets
will demonstrate their worth if given
the chance.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will cleanse the
stomach, remove the sour, undigested,
fermenting food, take the excess bile
from the liver and carry out of the
system any waste matter or poison in
the bowels.
Take them occasionally, or wtien you
feel out of sorts, and they will prevent
these minor ailments which make you
feel good for nothing.
To ensure permanent good health in
your family see that all members take
Jhr THE STOMACrT Ll VER
The road to ruin begins when constipation and
biliousness fasten themselves on you, and drag
down your health. Chamberlain’s Tablets cure
these disorders, and successfully build up. your
strength and health.
Boils and pimples are Nature’s effort to throw
off poisons which have formed in the blood.
Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse the stomach, liver
and bowels, thus purifying the blood and refresh-
ing the system until you feel a new being. Take
a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets to thoroughly
eradicate the poisonous matter from the system
and then make a practice of taking one at regular
intervals and you will never again be troubled
with boils.
Indigestion and dyspepsia wear out body and
brain, for owing to imperfect assimilation _ of
food they do not receive the required nourish-
ment. Constipation ensues, the victim becoming
weak and haggard. Chamberlain’s Tablets stimu-
late the digestive organs to perfect action, com-
pelling complete digestion and assimilation of
food, and strengthening the bowels to act natu-
rally and regularly. Many people who were
troubled with these complaints have been per-
manently relieved by a course of Chamberlain’s
Tablets.
Headaches, like many other human ailments,
have been wrongly diagnosed and altogether mis-
understood. The headache itself is not the thing
to treat, for the reason that it is simply a
symptom and is wholly dependent on the action
of other organs. Not infrequently the direct
cause of headache is an inactive liver. If you
are troubled much with headaches, then try
Chamberlain’s Tablets, the reliable, tried and
true liver medicine that sets that organ right.
One box is medicine for the whole family and
costs but Is. 6d.
It is a folly for old folks to allow the bowel
debility of age to master them, as it naturally
makes them age faster each day. By using
Chamberlain’s Tablets, safe and pleasant relief
can always be had. There is no griping.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will clear the sour
stomach, sweeten the breath and create a healthy
appetite. They promote the flow of gastric juice,
thereby inducing good digestion.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS).
Personal attention to all consignments. Why Sf* ve them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET) SYDNEY.
m
:
A Steel-Lined
Cartridge
means a strength-liued cartridge
“Nitro Club”
Shotgun Cartridges
Made in jo, 12,16, are steel-lined
eo, 24 and 28 gauge above the
powder charge
—g i v i n g
strength to
| the case and
power and
penetration
to the shot
charge. Also an even pellet
' distribution that makes for good patterns
and a heavy bag.
Loaded in London with the popular English powders. Obtainable
from leading dealers everywhere—catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
'toui
25
COPPER AND ALUMINUM
kitchen utensils take on a
cheerful newness when
polished with.
KING OF
METAL POLISH
The wonder working,
safest and quickest of all polishes.
Two size cans at all Grocery, Hardware
l and Drug Stores, Look for the Photo on can.
the
HK
IncubatO
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
sfd
sfd
TEST THIS WATCH-
GIVE IT A SHOCK.
THE “ BUSHMAN ” Oil
GUINEA LEVER ...
May be said to have Many Lives.
SEND FOR IT TO-DAY.
THE MOST DEPENDABLE GUINEA
WATCH IN AUSTRALIA.
No amount of jolting or jarring can
“administer a shock” to its working
parts. This is why Workmen, Bush-
men, Boundary Riders, Railway
Guards, Motorists and Travellers
regard it is their standby.
COMPENSATION BALANCE —hence its accuracy. THE CASE is solid
oxidised steel —dust, dirt and damp proof. Dial is PLAIN, with stout
crystal glass. PRICE, 21/-, Postage Paid.
Complete Catalogue of Watches and Jewellery Post Free.
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney


Arnott’s Milfe Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
fd
CHOOSE
your footwear carefully—remember
that it either makes or mars your
appearance.
ABBEY SHOES
are correct in style, and perfect in
fit and workmanship.
We illustrate a fine Velour Calf
Derby Shoe. It will take a high
polish.
Price - 27/6
Glace Kid 25/-
Also in Tan 25/-, 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
When you buy tyres
buy MILES
r
D
3
SOME tyres achieve “freaK’’ mileages,
of course, just as some men live to be a
hundred. The average motorist is natur-
ally more interested in average mileage, and
these disinterested records of service by British
Avons are presented with full confidence that
they will command thoughtful attention:-
<jf Average mileage of 20 Avon Tyres
run on London Taxicabs by Jacobs and
Malpass, 462, Fulham Road, S.W. ...
7,801
miles per tyre.
<j| Average mileage of 20 Avon Tyres \
in everyday service (town and country) |
reported by private motorists (names -
all published on page 17 of the Avon I
Cata ague) /
10,037
miles per tyre.
Get the MILES built into Avons—tyre beauty of a typically
British sort that is more than “tread-deep.”
Agents:
N.J. HOWES & CO.,
212 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX.
26 (Market Street,
Melbourne.
a
r
• ■ i I ■
(Sb
TYH§S
Made by The Avon India Rubber Company, Ltd., at Melksham and Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts, England. London: 19, Newman St., W.
The Three
“Gr&molas”
in the unique beauty of their cabinets,
the exquisite purity of tone, and the
tme-to-life reproduction stand un-
rivalled as the world’s premier talking-
machines. They typify and embody
in their every detail the inimitable
excellence of
fdfd
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
GRAMOPHONE "
Registered Trade Mark.
Cabinet-Grand Gramola No. 3 ("illustrated), in
Satin-finished Mahogany £4B/10/-
Cabinet-Grand Gramola No. 2, in Satin-finished
Mahogany or Oak £57/10/-
Cabinet-Grand Gramola No. 1, Choicest Circas-
sian Walnut £67/10/-
Be sure to hear “His Master's Voice” Instruments.
“Nothing to Compare with Them.”
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
D \N
7*
0^
NOV)
DO
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. lfou’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions. 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write lor our New Noveltv
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
sfd
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
So sooner do you
op< n the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
Xi
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
CAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR—
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caiile Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4-CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST !VIODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
sfd


sfd
w.
m
&>
J
Pimples
Quickly, Easily
and Cheaply
by Using
Ciiticura
The Soap to
cleanse and pu-
rify, the Oint-
ment to soothe
and heal. Noth-
ing better for all
skin and scalp
troubles.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Go., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
Share the
“Ross Luck”
of Mr. J. Moorehouse, of Winnipeg,
who felled a fine Moose at 480 yards,
on Dec. 13, 1914, with his Ross .280.
The biggest of game falls before
the “Ross” .280 with its special
Sporting Cartridge with copper tube
expanding bullet, patented, and when
you carry one you know that your
quarry, if fairly hit, will surely not
get away.
The Ross .280 Rifle is sold by best
dealers everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
815
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ROSS RIFLE CO.
Quebec, Canada
BISTO is a fine dry
powder which thickens,
colours and seasons
gravy, soups, stews,
meat puddings, etc. No
flour, salt or browning
is needed.
sfd
is
“ Everything
hut the meat."
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by Cerebos, LTD.
CHRISTIES
/SPECIALISE
Tk/O
LINES
I# 5
S
0
CATALOGUE
/*NO
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 1 " SYDNEY
*-“/iONTER ST NEWCASTLE
m
.
mm
m
it
•!.
mm
mi
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Oifice in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. ;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
A'mount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
ST*
r—
-1/
iv
S'.
Mil
f’UrK I'.*
£M
s
%*>&&&?*&'
■A&Sm&Wi
i-r«?j?SSSa{£?*;S;;
o
£
!.•/ •. : :«-j
;:j
✓
JSSfieSs&£3-
&¥§ 3.':: .-v/aSs
Messrs. Ashton |& Parsons Ltd, of London# Would appreciate your courtesy! If, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne, when tho genuine article will be sent in its place, and the [cost of postage
.—— - I <
refunded to you.
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘Phosfvrme
KVa*
Proven Remedy
Neurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h:s received such absolu'e proof of it*
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitution*,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Li e and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:—
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D., C.M.,
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
sfd
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
fdfd
per bottle.
pep bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GR EAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd.. 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
The Inky Way.
Perth pressmen have some reason to
throw chests on account of their vigorous
little Club, now a couple of years old.
Started in a basement on nothing more
than the determination of a few inky
waysters to have a club, and while
the membership was nil, the optimists
bought (on bills) £2OO worth of furniture
and a billiard-table costing about £l2O, and
the Club set out on a compulsorily teetotal
basis. The license to sell spirituous joys
came later, and the pressmen commenced
earnestly to drink the Club into solvency.
In the early days receipts wouldn’t run to
a steward, so the committee drew up a
roster for voluntary service. Then there
was seen the leader-writer bearing on a
salver a “beer with a dash” to a junior
reporter and looking keenly for the cub’s
sixpence. It was found necessary to admit
non-pressman members, and the Club grew
quickly out of its dungeon cells, moving to
a new building in the best part of St.
George’s Terrace, the one thoroughfare of
which Perth can boast. Here the Club
takes up the whole of the second floor and
accommodates four resident members. At
present the receipts run to something like
£3OO a month, and if the fell breath of the
wowser does not blight its young existence,
the Club will owe not any man by the end
of the current year.
* * * *
Unfit for active service, “Billy” Moore,
journalist, dramatist (more or less) and the
most eminent Melbourne Bohemian of recent
times, has for the past two years been work •
ing in England with the Army Service
Corps. In the fulness of time he was made
a sergeant-major, and a month or two back
was asked for a report on a branch of his
work.. “Billy” put his soul into that report.
It bristled with epigrams, apt allusions and
striking illustrations, its thoughtfulness
being equalled only by its elegance of dic-
tion. Its author posted the precious docu-
ment and waited. The answer came in a
few days :—■
Dear Sir, —It is not in accordance with military
etiquette to address a superior officer as “Dear Sir.”
Those who remember Billy in Melbourne
are puzzled to know how it is that his
superior officer was not addressed as “Dear
old chappie.”
Alan Prichard, who has given up his
Argus job of mining man to go into khaki,
was offered a farewell cigar at the Melbourne
Stock Exchange Club the other evening. The
mining editor has to work between two con-
tending hosts of bulls and bears, and he can’t
suit both; yet a really beautiful assortment
of felicitations has been handed Prichard
since his enlistment.
* * * *
George Wilson Hall, the old pressman and
politician who died the other day, was re-
sponsible for one great scoop. He supplied
the Age with the first account of the cap-
ture of Ned Kelly. Hall used to edit the
Benalla Standard, in the Kelly country.
* * * *
“0.K.”: One of the most fiery patriots
I’ve met is W. E. Williams, who, in the
piping times of peace, was on the business
side of a Melbourne weekly. At the time
of the Boer war he abandoned a comfort-
able income to go a-soldiering, and when
this, war broke out he dropped his billet
again and enlisted. He was Sergt.
Williams at Gallipoli, and would have suc-
ceeded to a commission if his division had
not been wiped out. There was nothing
left to officer. The sergeant came back
invalided to Melbourne and was pronounced
permanently unfit. Last month he left for
England and a year’s recuperation. In the
course of his rest cure he will probably
punch a few slackers on the nose. His
father, William Williams, was a well-known
preacher in England, and when a parson’s
son is combative he is combative.
* * * *
“F.H.”: So far I haven’t seen C. .T.
Dennis and Edmond Rostand mentioned in
the same par. Yet Dennis followed in Ros-
tand’s footsteps when some years ago he
retired to his bark humpy in the tall timber,
pen in hand, to escape from the interrup-
tions of the multitude and get on with his
writin’. It was thus that Rostand’s chief
work was produced; and I remember that
The Bulletin commended the Frenchman’s
example to Australian writers. It was that
tip which sent Dennis to find solitude in
the ranges—not necessarily chasing inspira-
tion, but seeking large quantities of time and
elbow-room in which to refine his brain-pro-
ducts. The example is still worth following.
COPY PAPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It stands upon my table now,
A big, square block of copy paper;
O’er this for many months, I vow,
I needs must burn the midnight taper.
It’s ready for me, waiting but
An inspiration straight from Heaven —•
Two thousand slips, all trimly cut,
Just as I like them, ten by seven.
And ere a bigger theme I seize
I sit a little while, and ponder
The wondrous possibilities
Of that white, virgin paper yonder.
It is the fallow ground my pen
Will plough in rows half-inch asunder,
And sow with myriad seeds. And then
What will the harvest be, I wonder?
Perchance it’s lurking in the pile,
As in the stone once hid a Milo,
My novel, fine in theme and style,
Or only tracts on maize and silo,
And vagrant pars and tinkling rhymes
The better readers will make nought of;
Perchance the play which many times,
With great intention, I have, thought of.
Maybe those pages will be seamed
With lines to make me really famous,
Or stained with japes that might be dreamed
By any scribbling ignoramus.
Already visions seem to stir.
I fear me, though, that Fate’s black malice
Will make a whited sepulchre
Where I would have a fairy palace.
VICTORIA.
E. D.


<6
J
CRICKET
Season 1916-17.
Now showing a magnificent range
of New Season’s Requisites from
the World’s Leading Makers —
We confidently recommend our renowned
M.S. SPORTING SPECIALTIES as being
absolutely unequalled in value.
For full particulars of Cricket and all indoor
and outdoor Sporting Materials see a copy of
our new edition illustrated Sports Catalogue.
Post free to any address.
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with all
kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
MEN’S BATS.
Each.
M.S. All Cane, special value 6/-
M.S., Colonial Driver 8/-
M.S., Marvel Driver 9/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, single rubber.. 13/6
M.S., Hayraarket Driver, double rubber .. 16/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, Spec. Selected 22/6
Abel’s Autograph Guv’nor 30/-, 35/-
Avres’ International, 22/-, Improved.. 27/6
Ayres’ International Improved Selected.. 33/-
Bartlett’s All England Driver 21/-
Bartlett’s Repercussive Handle 23/-
C. G. Macartney Autograph 30/-
City & Suburban Sport Co., 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
(C.S. Sport Co.’s bats are specially faced
for Australian wickets, and require no
preparation before using.)
Clapshaw’s Cork-cased Handle 11/6
Clapshaw’s Spiral Spring 26/6
Cobbett’s Star Driver, 22/- ; spec, driver 18/-
Dye’s tihampion, 17/6; sel., 20/-;
Ditto, specially selected 22/6
Gunn and Moore’s Autograph 27/6
Gunn and Moore’s Cannon ... , 19/6
Nicholl’s Automatic .... 15/6, 22/6, 27/-
Shaw and Shrewsbury’s A 1 21/-
Spalding’s Cty. Special, 21/-; L. Club 20/-
Spalding’s Hayward Record ;... 28/6
Stuart, S'urridge Oval Driver ... 13/6
Stuart, Surridge Rapid Driver 21 /6
Stuart, Surridge Standard Driver . . . ■ 16/6
Summers Brown P. Spoon, 21/6, 25/-, 30/-
Syke’s Yorkshire Driver, ord. 23/6; sel., 28/6
Warsop’s Conqueror, ord., 20/-; sel., 28/-
Bats, retail from 21/-, are guaranteed.
MEN’S GAUNTLETS.
Pair.
Ventilated, very strong 5/6
Gold Cape, ventilated and padded, 8/-, 9/6
"White Kid, ventilated, extra quality .. 9/.
Rubber Palms, ventilated, 8/-, 10/6, 12/6
All England, rubber palms, p’d tips . . 12/6
Rubber Palms, extra padded, very su-
perior white kid or gold cape.... I^/9
Celebrated Lilley, padded tips 10 /_
M.S. Champion, extra special and extra
large; the finest made .... 17/6, 21/-
MEN’S LEG GUARDS.
Pair.
Tail, continuous straps, good club guard 7/-
Tan, continuous straps, ventilated .... 8/-
Gcld Cape, cont. straps, superior, 10/-, 11/6
Half Skeleton, G. cape or W. buck, new
Pattern 13/6
Best Skeleton, G. cape or W. buck.... 15/-
Gold Cape, ex. quality for ’keepers .... 16/6
CRICKET BALLS.
All Match Weights, viz., 5-1 oz.
Each.
Duke’s Match, 7/6; P.K.D., 8/6; Best 9/6
M.S. Match, gut sewn 6/6
M.S. Special Match, 7/6; extra special.. 8/6
(Our M.S. Balls will outlast any other,
and are specially suited for matting
wickets.)
Standard Match, 2/9; Special Match.. 5/_
Eclipse Compo., 2/3.; Eclipse Victory.. 3/.
Compo. Balls, 1/-, 1/6; Nicholson’s... 4/9
FULL-SIZE CRICKET MATS.
(GREEN).
Made from Best Material
In two pieces, for double wicket, 6ft. wide.
Bound Ends, metal eyelets and spikes, £4/10/-
Leather-bound £4/15/-, £5/5/-
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES.
Pair.
Featherweight, felt protection 4/9
Buff Chamois, best tubular rubber, 7/6, 8/6
hite Kid, G., cape points, hair-stuffed.. 5/-
Superior, ex. stout tubular rubber 8/6, 10/6
Surry Shields, R. or L. Hand 5/6
MEN’S STUMPS.
Set of 6.
Blackwood, very strong, plain 2/6
Superior Ash, polished 4/-
Brass Top, steel shod, ash 7/-
Half Solid Brass Top, steel shod 8/9
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash 9/6
Revolving Top, steel shod, ash, 11/-, 12/6
Solid Brass Top. steel shod, hickory .. 14/6
Revolving Top, steel shod, hickory .... 15/6
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Abdominal Pads .. 3/-, 4/3, 5/-, 6/3 each
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas .... 2/6 each
Bat Oil, specially prepared 1/- bottle
Canvas Boots, welted soles .. . 12/- pair
Club Kit Bags 13/0, 17/0 each
Solid Hide Bags, brass locks, 30/-., 40/- each
Cricket Belts, two straps 1/3 each
Cricket Nets .. 13/6, 27/6, 30/-, 33/-ea.
Greenhide Sleeves for Bats 1/-, 1/6 each
Gripolene, gauntlet solution 1/6 bottle
Handle Rubbers, 9(1-, 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9 ea.
Scoring Books, full size .. l/-, 1/3, 2/-each
Scoring Books, pocket size., 6(1-, 9d-> 1/- each
SPORTING REPAIR WORK a Specialty.
Bats Bound and Repaired from 6d. inch. New Handles & Blades Fitted.
»
ASB
m
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
I WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TORCH
sfd
6/6
Pcld
_ Supplies its own heat.
Handy for Tradesmen and Amateurs. Ready for use
in one minute anywhere. The trouble of a soldering, job
is heating the'bit and keeping it hot. The Soldering Torch
is charged with benzine or petrol and it heats the copper
bit in a minute and keeps it at the right heat until the job
is done % Easily managed Makes soldering a pleasure.
c UNION Mfg, Company. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Certain-teed
the Roofing
IDEAL
of method and especially developed processes make Certain-teed
the roofing ideal. Finished with a hard, protecting surface of mineral asphalt,
it possesses the same appearance and durability as the surface of an asphalt-topped road.
Certain-teed is used the world over. Prominent architects everywhere specify
Certain- teed— Because:
Suddenly changing temperatures do not affect it ki the least.
It will not buckle, blister, creep, nor crack, and it cannot dry out.
It is impervious to the destroying action of vapors, acids, smoke
and gas-laden atmosphere.
Your distributor carries a full local stock. He will fill orders promptly. Secure samples and prices from him.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. COMPANY
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products:
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: FACTORIES:
New York and San Francisco, U. S. A. York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and
Cable Address: ‘Genromco’ E. St. Louis, U. S. A.
Australian Office: Perpetual Trustee Building, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local Stocks carried by John Danks & Sons Fty. ltd.,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
sfd
The True Safeguard
of Baby’s Health
aMenburgsßtods
THE milk of a healthy mother confers a de-
gree of immunity to infection to the young
infant Many mothers, however, though
willing, cannot nurse their babies for various
reasons. In such cases the greatest care should
be taken in selecting a proper substitute. Ordi-
nary cow’s milk cannot be regarded as a safe
food for infants; it is acid, contains indigestible
curd, and is almost invariably contaminated
with harmful germs. By using the “Allenburys”
Foods, which are free from all dangerous
organisms, and effectually replace human
milk, security for baby is ensured and vigorous
growth and health are promoted. The
“Allenburys” Foods are largely used and
recommended by the Medical and Nursing
Professions; they have stood the test of time
and have become a household necessity all
over the world.
The ‘Allenburys’ Infant Dietary
e^£H#nburyi
MILK FOOD No. I.
From Birth to 3 months
rfShuHffiff
y iis
Jff ffnilte^Ud!
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 7 months
I
SmZSXZJ
IUIHI
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From 7 months upwards.
P 5“ Writeforfree boeh“Snfant Feeding and Management **
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
AHen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
'i
tYV-
Simplest and Best
c
U
THE BEST
SMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
W TOBACCO
ďf
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all l ar-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.


&/lELDONS
NEURALGIA
MAGNETIC
0 V
-X
pfwjTOi
for
OWCUMATIOM
LUMBAGO, LAME BACK
NEURALGIA
STinqs or INSECTS
SORE THROAT
SWELLINGS. SPRAINS
* BANISHES AIL PAIN."
PGIVES.INSTANT.RELIEF
£& BANISHES. ALL.PAIN!
She walks the floor all night wringing her hands,
calling for relief. Her head is racked by
dreadful pains—the pains of Neuralgia. No
need to describe Neuralgia. Those who have
endured its torments do not wish to recall it.
Those who have never suffered could not under-
stand. But this is unnecessary suffering.
I Neuralgia need not be endured. Dr. Sheldon’s
: Magnetic Liniment has put an end to this
martyrdom. Rub it on the forehead, back of
the neck, on the gums. Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic
Liniment smoothes out the pain, draws out the
Neuralgia like a magnet. First she enjoys the
sensation of ease after pain, then refreshing
sleep follows the relief. On awakening she
realises that Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment
is her safeguard and refuge against future
attacks. A 1/6 bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic
Liniment will convince you that it will
Banish all Pain
A 3/~ bottle provides protection
for all the family
We/afm’s,. „
m,
/ l \\/
■Si X
Wow Come the Trying
MiMWffi'i V*. y,rfW.YWITHIgYI iMIIT
Summer Days =
when life in the Kitchen —bending over a
hot stove —is not the job it’s cracked up to
be.
But on the broiling hot days the wise housewife keeps out of the kitchen
as much as possible. She serves—
ƒd
Game Pie
if-
ra
CgAMP Pjjj
' ;V
w
iw
with Salad —and it’s strange even “faddy” eaters seldom complain about
it being served too often. For “REX” CAMP PIE is a favorite with all
the folks from Father down to tiny Tim —even Mother likes her share ot it.
“REX” CAMP PIE is a great Summer Dish, an appetising, mouth-watering
concoction of specially-selected meats, which are cooked, minced, seasoned
and packed in stiff jelly in a way known only to the “Rex” Chefs.
The addition of a Beetroot or Lettuce Salad
makes Camp Pie a toothsome meal.
Give it a trial. Ask your grocer for a tin
to-day.
THE NAME “REX” INSURES ITS
EXCELLENCE.
Ask also for —•
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
Temporarily out of stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
gc
E
X
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Sorrow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A SHADOW came between me and the
wine
That gleamed so redly in the crystal
cup ;
The golden ornaments had ceased to shine,
The flowers closed their scented petals up,
Drooped down and withered ; and the lights
grew faint
As paling stars at the grey dawn’s con-
straint.
Was it your lips, my Amaranth, that proved
But gates for liar’s pageantry ; or say
A trusted friend, all faithless, though
beloved ?
Or was I weary of the painted day
We turned night into? Now, it matters not,
When I have gauged the measure of my lot!
But they, whose laughter seemed so warm
and gay,
Grew cold and left me. Even as they went
I saw the marks of licence and decay
Upon their faces; and the subtle scent,
That once had been allurement to my sense,
Was stale with all the outrage of pretence.
Then, all around, a darkness seemed to close,
And through the darkness blew a night-wind
cold.
The world I knew, sweet-scented as a rose,
Filled with warm, living wine and lustrous
gold,
Was lost to me. Sorrow above me stood
A black-robed horror, with a sable hood.
But, as bowed head on my stretched
arms fell
In anguish for a loss that left me dazed,
I heard a soft, sweet voice of comfort tell;
By gentle hands my frenzied head was
raised ;
And lo ! I saw, within the sable hood,
A face of calm, compassionate womanhood!
There was no cruelty in that eye of hers —
No triumph in the conquest she had
wrought—
But it was bright with pity’s tender tears;
And two cool hands my trembling fingers
sought
To softly raise me; groping as I went,
I found a hope in dreaming her intent.
She opened wide a door that faced the east;
A cool wind laid its fingers on my head ;
And so we left the temple of the feast
As to the waking dawn my soul she led,
Not as a robber who my joys would steal,
But as a lover anxious for my weal.
Fresh broke the day and filled the world with
gold ;
How glad the dew on freshened grasses
shone!
“These are my tears,” said Sorrow. “And,
behold,
The darkness fadeth and the night is gone!”
And while the dawn’s bright lance-points
pressed the mist
My chastened lips the mouth of Sorrow kist.
A memory of Sorrow in my heart
Goes with me always—always. It is sweet,
Even if, in its sweetness, tears have part.
And I shall never fear it when we meet.
Life has its shallow pleasures and its toys;
But Sorrow holds the key to other joys.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
A Papuan Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A GREAT feast had just been partaken
of in the Papuan village of Kera-
puna, and at the first streak of dawn
the guests arose and commenced their pre-
parations for departure.
Aiva, son of the Chief of Kerapuna,
squatted upon his haunches, and thought-
fully chewed betel-nut, while he followed,
with half-closed eyes, the graceful move-
ments of a young girl, the daughter of one
of the visiting chiefs, who was busily en-
gaged in packing a large string bag with
provisions for the journey.
The Chief of Kerapuna slowly descended
the ladder from his house, and stood behind
his son, a slight smile playing round the
corners of his cruel, sensual mouth.
“Truly the maid is very beautiful,” he
murmured, “and she is soon to become the
wife of Ikavita, Chief of Mambare.”
Aiva started at the sound of his father’s
voice, then rising to his feet he growled
sulkily:
“Ikavita has many wives. I have but two.
Moreover, I have long desired to possess
Nana myself.”
“Then take her, my son,” replied his
father. “Her tribe is not strong enough to
prevent- you, and, as you say, Ikavita has
many wives, so that perchance the loss of
one will not anger him.”
The Chief turned and strolled away
towards the beach, and Aiva, after standing
for some time in deep thought, hurried
across the village clearing and joined a large
group of Kerapuna warriors, who wdre
waiting to bid the visitors farewell.
Ten minutes later the group dispersed,
and in parties of three or four at a time
disappeared unostentatiously into the sur-
rounding jungle. As each party became
hidden by the thick undergrowth they threw
off their appearance of lazy unconcern, and
hurried towards a spot on the banks of a
small creek about half a mile to the west-
ward of the village.
Within half an hour of Aiva’s conversa-
tion with his father, 50 fully-armed warriors,
headed by Aiva himself, were hurrying
almost noiselessly through the jungle' in
single file and making for a range of low
hills which ran parallel to the coast, about
three miles inland from Kerapuna.
Arrived at the foot of this range, Aiva
led the way along the base of it, until, com-
ing upon a faintly-marked track which zig-
zagged up the steep side of the hill, he
halted and held a whispered consultation
with the man immediately behind him.
Then turning to the right, he led the way
straight up the hillside.
When he reached the summit of the ridge
he lay down behind a clump of undergrowth
and, signing to his men to couceal themselves
also, he lovingly fingered the sharp, poisoned
point of his ebony-wood spear, and waited.
The guests of the people of Kerapuna, hav-
ing meanwhile finished their preparations for
the long journey back to their own country,
took affectionate leave of those of the Kera-
puna people who remained in the village.
With many expressions of eternal friendship
and goodwill from both sides, they set out
along the track.
The Chief of Kerapuna stroked his chin,
and smiled thoughtfully as he looked after
the departing visitors, and allowed his eyes
to rest for a moment upon the dainty Nana.
She hurried along behind her father, singing
happily to herself, and doubtless thinking
of the time so near at hand when she would
be the newest and consequently ' e most
cherished wife of Ikavita, the great and
powerful Chief of Mambare.
An hour’s walk brought them to the foot
of the low range of hills, and following the
zigzag track they commenced the ascent.
Half-way up the hill Nana’s father halted,
and, grasping his spear more firmly in his
hand, peered anxiously into the undergrowth
above him, while those behind stood and
waited expectantly. In a tree near at
hand a covey of birds of paradise at their
morning dance rent the air with their in-
sistent cries. A snake glided noiselessly
across the track a few yards ahead. Nothing
appeared that could give reasonable cause
for anxiety on the part of the travellers, but
still Nana’s father stood listening intently
and gazing steadily up the hill.
At last Nana became impatient.
“It is nothing, father,” she said lightly.
“A wild pig, perchance, but no enemy would
dare to attack us so near to our Mends in
Kerapuna.”
“You are young, my child,” growled the
old chief, “or you would know that our
friends are only our friends as long as they
have nothing to gain, by becoming our ene-
mies.” He continued slowly and cautiously
leading the way upwards, darting quick,
troubled glances above and around him as he
went.
As they neared the top of the hill he again
halted suddenly. Swinging sharply round
he pushed Nana into the bushes at the side
of the track, and jerked his shield in front of
him as he turned back again and looked up
the hill. A sbeond later a spear whizzed
through the air and stuck quivering in his
shield, and as the men behind him rushed
forward to his assistance, Aiva and his
warriors sprang to their feet and hurled
themselves down the slope upon their unpre-
pared victims.
Although Aiva’s warriors were consider-
ably outnumbered, the fact that, in accord-
ance with Papuan customs, they, being the
hosts, had not partaken of the previous
night’s feast, while their late guests were
still heavy from the effects of their orgy,
told very much in their favor. After a short,
fierce struggle, during which Nana’s father
and some 20 of his men were killed, the
visitors broke and fled in all directions.
At the commencement of the attack Aiva
had secured Nana, and, leaving his men to
finish the fight, had dragged her, despite her
frantic struggles, down the hillside and
towards the village.
The remaining women of Nana’s party, as
soon as they saw which way the battle was
likely to end, made good their escape, and
the Kerapuna men, having effected their pur-
pose, forebore to pursue them, and returned
quietly to their villas'e. They overtook Aiva
on their way and assisted him with the still
struggling Nana.
Arrived in Kerapuna. Nana realised that
it would be useless to attempt to escape.
Even if she succeeded in eluding the vigil-
ance of her captors, her owm village was
several days’ journey away, and she would
be certain to be captured by some other
tribe long before she could hope to reach
home.
Therefore, being a sensible girl, she
resigned herself to becoming the wife of the
future chief of Kerapuna, instead of marry-
ing the present chief of Mambare.
For the ensuing six months Nana’s life
was by no means a happy one. Aiva’s other
two wives, jealous of the kindness and
consideration which he showed Nana, never
lost an opportunity of holding her up to
public ridicule when they, with the remain-
ing women of the village, were at work
each morning in their husbands’ gardens.
From sunrise till dark, as long as Aiva was
out of hearing, they never ceased to nag
her. The consequence was that Nana,
knowing that whatever she did would be
found fault with, became careless and negli-
gent in her work.
At last there came a time when she began
to feel ill and unfit for the labor that she
was expected to perform. Knowing that she
could hope for no sympathy or considera-
tion from her fellow wives, and being unwill-
ing to speak to Aiva himself on the subject,
she continued to struggle on as best she
could, until one morning while working in
the gardens she omitted to tie up a clump of
sugar-cane which had grown too long to
support itself and was obviously in need of
attention. The matter was at once reported
to Aiva, who arrived upon the scene armed
with a stout length of lawyer-cane and a
ferocious temper.
So far Nana had received nothing but
kindness from Aiva. Now, exasperated by
the continual complaints regarding her
behavior dinned into his ears lach day by
his other wives, he seized her roughly by
the arm and flogged her unmercifully, until
tired with his exertions he flung her sense-
less and bleeding upon the ground and
returned to his house.
The sun was sinking behind the treetops
to the westward when Nana, dazed and
aching in every bone, rose and staggered
down to the beach. She threw herself upon
the sand and lay sobbing broken-heartedly
(Continued on next page.)


m
1
vNWWWW^
V/,
1
<«s * ht;
S .//
a n v
ZAM-BUK is Cooling, Soothing and Healing.
The maddening smart of a burn or scald (and the fact that the action
of the air is injurious) calls for the immediate application of Zam-Buk.
Keep a pot of this soothing first-aid in the most-get-at-able place. The
kettle may boil over or lurch from the hob at any moment, and there is
daily risk of similar mishaps to men, women and children alike.
Lighting one’s pipe isn’t always safe and painless; lifting dishes from
the oven and washing up have their own warm surprises; and fbo young-
sters learn many painful lessons about playing with "**e.
“A burnt child dreads the fire”—but if mother
has applied Zam-Buk it loves this pure, healing
balm ever afterwards. Zam-Buk is soothing and
cooling, and besides subduing pain and inflamma-
tion it helps to grow new skin. Much tissue is
often destroyed, and those who have watched a
burn or scald heal up under Zam-Buk’s beneficent
influence have often marvelled at the wonderful
work resulting from the application of a balm
which works hand in hand with Nature so har-
moniously and effectively.
FOOT SCALDED WHILE COOKING.
Miss F. Douglas, of Sussex Street, Lower N. Adelaide, writes :
“While engaged in the kitchen I had the misfortune to scald m>
foot. 1 applied different ointments, but at the end of a monti-
my foot still remained bad. One day I bought a pot of Zani
Buk, and after a few applications my foot showed
signs of healing, and in a little while it
completely well. lam exceedingly gratefu
for what Zam-Buk has do™ me
and can recommend :* nr -
a handy household
healer.”
ZAM-BUK
is excel-
lent for
cuts,
b urns,
s cal ds,
b r u ises,
eczema,
boils, bad
legs and
other
I njured
and dis-
eased
condi-
tions o f
the skin.
All CHEMISTS
S STORES.
mb
$
*0 A HIM
N 0»
|\NV
ORU®
C
£
a
✓ r
:C
j?VB
ci/rs
_ - cui
'•••• ’///: l;# Cf|n£ r • j
j*Z* rs /*** Ge#*a2rf£smm
»us :£**!!* £eS!Sf/;
ISM. SciatZ:**: ******
m
—
m
mism
1/6
&3/6
per pot
*8
f:
a
iferifPiß
Safety Razor
A safety razor at a popular price
which will fulfil the requirements
of the most fastidious user.
This is the only safety razor selling at less than 225. 6d.
that can be stropped without removing the blade. In sim-
plicity and ingenuity of construction it surpasses even the
most expensive safety razors. With a single touch it springs
open—for stropping or cleaning —and with another touch
it snaps together into accurately adjusted shaving position
as shown in the two illustrations below.
BRITISH MAKE.
Heavily silver-plated razor, complete
in handsome case, with strop in hinged
partition, and 6 finest
lancet steel blades (as
illustrated )
12/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Managing Agent: RALPH ABERCROMBY,
Denison House,
380-2 George Street, SYDNEY.
i l] to the night. Then dragging her-
i i lier Jcet she returned slowly to
• vivh s house, mounted the ladder, and feel-
-ug her way to the corner where Aiva lay
asleep, stretched herself beside him, and
vmy timidly laid her head upon his shoulder.
After this never a day passed that Nana
v-as not beaten on some pretext or other,
and very frequently on no pretext at all.
News travels quickly and mysteriously in
the jungle, and it was not Jong before
lkavita, chief of Mambare, began to hear
more or less authentic accounts of the in-
human treatment meted out to the girl
whom lie had intended to make his wife.
lie had not been greatly concerned on
bearing of her capture by the people of
Kerapuna, for as Aiva’s father had
remarked, lkavita already possessed many
other wives, and one more or less mattered
little to him. But at the news that she was
being llltreated by her captors he became
seriously angry, and sent messengers to the
outlying villages of his tribe commanding all
able-bodied warriors to repair at once to
Mambare.
Some days later a hunting-party of
Kerapuna men came running into the vil-
lage in hot haste to inform their chief that
lkavita and all his fighting men were but a
short hour’s march away, and were heading
iu the direction of Kerapuna with obviously
hostile intentions.
The Chief of Kerapuna shouted, and
swore, and blamed his son for ever daring
to take possession of the intended bride of
the great lkavita. Aiva stood at a safe
distance from his father, and replied that
he would never have dreamt of doing sucli
a thing had not the Chief of Kerapuna him-
self suggested it. In the midst of the storm
which followed this probably truthful asser-
tion a stream of painted and plumed war-
riors entered the village clearing from the
jungle behind. At their head marched the
great lkavita himself, who, signalling to
his men to halt, came forward to where the
Chief of Kerapuna stood cursing his son.
“Messiana, Chief of Kerapuna,” said
lkavita, stepping in front of him, “I, lkavita,
great . Chief of Mambare, have come from
my village to take from you the woman
named Nana, who was promised to me seven
moons ago by her parents, and whom you
captured after treacherously killing her
father while he and she were guests in your
country. I bring with me many warriors,
Messiana, and if you refuse to surrender
this woman to me, I have but to command
them and they will fall upon you and kill
you and your men and your children, and
capture your women and burn your villages,
and the tribe of Kerapuna will be no more.
O Messiana, Chief of Kerapuna, where is
this woman of whom I speak?”
“O lkavita, great Chief of Mambare,” re-
plied Messiana in a shaky voice, ‘‘it was not
I, but Aiva, my son, who captured the woman
called Nana. 1 told him that Nana was to
become your wife, lkavita, and forbade him
to lay hands upon her. If you desire to
take Nana back with you to Mambare, Aiva
my son will surrender her to you, for I his
father and liis chief will command him to
do so. There stands Aiva, my son. Go you
to him, O lkavita, and repeat to him the
words of Messiana his father.” And indi-
cating Aiva, who stood a short distance off
glaring angrily at lkavita, he walked slowly
away.
lkavita turned and looked contemptuously
at Aiva, and then strode across to where he
stood.
“Aiva, son of Messiana, Chief of Kera-
puna,” he said sternly, “are you he who stole
from me the maid Nana who was about to
become my wife? Are you the man who has
beaten her, and starved her, and treated her
as I would not treat one of my dogs?
Answer me, Aiva, son of Messiana, are you
that man?”
“I beat any of my wives when they dis-
obey me,” growled Aiva in a surly tone.
_ lkavita stepped back a pace, and raising
bis spear slashed Aiva heavily across the
face with the shaft. “Nana is no longer your
wife,” he roared. “She is”
Before he could finish his sentence Aiva,
mad with rage and the pain of the blow,
rushed forward and throwing his arms
around Ikavita’s waist endeavored to bring
him to the ground.
The Mambare warriors, knowing their
chief to be in no danger, did not attempt to
interfere, but merely crowded round to
watch.
Aiva, though strong and thick set, was no
match for lkavita, who was almost half as
tall again as he, and had the additional ad-
vantage of being armed with spear and stone
club.
Giving Aiva a sharp blow on the head
with the latter weapon, he shook him off. and
chancing to glance to one side as he did so,
caught sight of Nana, who had forced her
way through the crowd and stood with wide-
open, fearful eyes watching the struggle.
lkavita, thinking that her fear was for his
own safety, laughed lightly, and raising his
spear took deliberate aim and hurled it with
all his force straight at Aiva’s chest. At
that moment Nana, who had been watching
his movements closely, sprang forward
between the two men, and the next she lay
dying upon the ground with the point of
Ikavita’s spear protruding several inches out
from her left shoulder blade.
With a howl of rage Aiva flung himself
on his knees beside her and raised her head
in his arms, while lkavita stood staring
stupidly at them both.
Nana opened her eyes and smiled at Aiva.
“Good-bye. Aiva,” she murmured. “I will
die now, and then there will be no one to
disobey you and make you angry, as I have
done. It is better that I should die to save
your life than live to make you angry.”
Her voice trailed away to a whisper,
and a moment later her body relaxed and
she lay dead.
Aiva bent his head and pressed her cheek
to his.
The next second he fell forward across
Nana’s body, his skull smashed like an egg-
shell by a terrific: blow from Ikavita’s stone
club.
lkavita dragged him off Nana's body, and,
after a long look at the dead girl’s face,
turned away with a deep sigh and led his
men in silence back into the jungle.
VICTOR P. ARMSTRONG.
Bombs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Y' OU poke your head over the top of
your blanket and wonder what has
wakened you. From far off conies the
smooth purring of an engine. It grows
louder, and
Crash! Another: And the heavens are
raining destruction on the cantonments.
You grab your boots, slip them on, and in
a twinkling are in the protection of a dugout.
Against the steel-blue of the moonlit sky the
aeroplane can be seen flying low in an
endeavor to strike a vulnerable point. A
long beam of light sweeps into the night;
then another and another; and the merciless
flares focus the purring thing that is dropping
death.
There is the scream of a shell, a crash as it
bursts, and a puff of white smoke is hovering
near the enemy machine. Out of the dis-
tance come three more taubes, and in a
moment they, too, are adding roar upon roar
to the scream and crash of the shrapnel.
Another anti-aircraft gun comes into
action. Planing and turning, the taubes are
followed wherever they go by those pretty
balls of smoke which mean so much to them.
Now there is the vicious rattle of machine-
guns and the Bodies are circling amidst a
fire that gains accuracy every moment.
“Got him!” cries a gunner in exultation.
A machine staggers from the white smoke
a few yards from its wing, and drops twist-
ing a hundred feet or so; then with an
ungainly jerk it pulls itself straight again.
It turns its nose homeward now; its pilot
has had enough.
A bomb falls whistling a dozen yards from
us, a column of flame shoots high into the
air, and we realise joyfully that one more
incendiary bomb has done damage that
amounts to —nothing. Mercifully, there are
many that the mud renders harmless, but
where fire lias broken out there is already a
busy picket extinguishing the flames.
Only a few minutes have passed since we
scrambled to safety, but the taubes seem to
have no desire to wear out their welcome. At
the same time we cannot help paying silent
homage to the German airmen. These, at
least, are murdering no helpless women and
children, but are waging war on a camp that
can give as good as it takes.
Tlieir bombs all dropped, they wheel across
the sky and disappear as quickly as they
came, leaving our gunners white with rage
and disappointment.
“One more little minute an’ I’d have fixed
them....l’d give six months’ pay to have
downed one of ’em Ah, well! Better luck
next time.”
_ The stores of ammunition have not been
hit, and our casualties are few. We crawl
once more between our blankets and fall
asleep, the more soundly for the knowledge
that the unpleasant nightbirds will not dis-
turb our slumber again—this night, at least.
FRANK REID.
Children of Joy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IVT OT oue step may you go
j\ From the edge of the track,
For the hill is bewitched, dewy vines
hold you back,
Looping snares for your feet in a delicate
malice ;
And the grass is aglow
Where the day is begun
With lanterns of rubies tired through by the
sun;
With revellers flaunting red joy in a chalice;
With little wild poppies.
Not one step may you go ; ’twere unholy to
tread
Where this offering of tragic felicity, spread
In the path of the terrible Youth of the
Year,
Breathes transient beauty defiant of fear,
That teases the morning to dimple and thrill
With the mirth of the poppies,
The Bacchantine poppies,
The little doomed poppies that dance on the
hill.
Evanescent as dawn
And unstable as flame,
With torches of scarlet no shadow can tame,
They kindle the plumes of the blossoming
grasses;
So sharply withdrawn
From the arms of the earth,
Straight ravished by death from their rap-
turous birth,
Whirled away at the will of the first breeze
that passes,
What care the wild poppies?
Ecstatic and helpless, each turns a brave
eye *
To the pure and unpitiful blue of the skv ;
Each treasures her last shattered petaf to
fling
A gift of goodwill to the perilous Spring
As she flees from the hill, into nothingness
hurled....
But with each stricken poppy,
Each little slain poppy,
A Bream is set free that may hearten the
world.
Too eager to stay
For the night stillness deep,
Too fragile to storm the white ramparts of
sleep,
The children of joy seek the children of
sorrow; •
Through the clangor of day,
Through the brazen noon beams.
Oh, have you not heard them, the Comfort-
ing Dreams,
With their whispers of cheer for the untried
to-morrow ?
The souls of the poppies
That leap to their death on the wind-ruffled
slope
Are the Fancies who guide the shy footsteps
of Hope.
Oh, have you not felt in your blackest
despair
Soft lips on your eyelids, dear hands on
your hair?
Then baffle with laughter your fate, conic
what will,
Like the. riotous poppies.
The little wild poppies,
The unafraid poppies that dance on the hill.
VICTORIA,
ELSIE COLE.


isass.-"«
(Cross)
o
CD
n
mrrrr/??/? zr; rzrrr^
10-h.p. Oil Ena in o drivino Air Compressor at 650 r.p.m,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Are Simple in Construction,
Safe and Easy to Manipulate,
Rugged in Design.
NO MAGNETO, VAPORISER OR
CARBURETTER to Give Trouble.
Lubrication is AUTOMATIC, with
Sight-feed Glass.
FUEL CONSUMPTION is Low and
is Automatically Regulated to suit
Power being used.
Our Engines Develop their Full
Rated Power.
We can Quote for Marine and Port-
able Types also. Enquiries will have
the Best Attention of our Expert
Staff.
Th« Westinghouse Brake
Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Concord West, N.S.W.
[2
sfd
D O N’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER'S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them bv
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
QfJ.CoNis Brow's
CWoredy^e
The Original and Only Genuine.
MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM,
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 8/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
Magnesia
1
IMPORTANT ’
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach. Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
iiMipsiSs;
W.
s
■■ ' j-‘
Eckersley’s Soda Fountains
and Aerated Water Machines
Specially designed for CAFES, HOTELS, etc. a , r ?J" arte ., in .^. ustralia -
SAVE jobber’s profits by purchasing- DIRECT from the manufacturers.
As we are the sole manufacturers of the apparatus we sell, we can absolutely guarantee
tb. workmanship of insinuation,. Complete Plants from £25 8 upwards.
8 SONS.
Rawson Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney
(Opp. Main Entrance Railway Station),.
ISLAND.—Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, Queen Street, BRISBANE,
AUSTRALIA.—A. M. Bickford & Sons, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
N. ZEALAND.—John Rigg & Son, Dixon Street, WELLINGTON.
sfdsdf
m
I
sfd
Beechams Pills
COMPLETE THE KIT.
The tool with 5 big features
is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are: —
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
sdf
OSTER
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing: machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT)
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Oster fVFfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
sfd
any
illustration appearing in The
takes your fancy, write to the
er, who will quote you price for it.
AT any height, at any temperature, in any
climate, under any atmospheric conditions,
at any speed, up any grade, under any load,
sfd
The Famous
Schebler Carburetter
“ The Heart of the Auto=
mobile” sends a never=
failing power stream
pulsing through your
motor.
Illustrative and descriptive
leaflets and all information free.
Robert C. Swan
Ltd
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, sole Agents for Australasia. [1


Tlie All-Australian
mangroyite'
LEATHER
SELTINC
whioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LODOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
m
BUFFALO
Canoidal Fans
deliver large volumes of air at relatively
low pressures. You can find no outfit more
suitable
For Supplying Fresh, Cool Air to
Office and Workrooms
or for exhausting Foul Air, Smoke or
Fumes.
They are made so as to discharge in any
desired direction by revolving the cast'
iron housing.
Write to Agents for Bulletin 182 E-51.
Parke S Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17: —
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.AV. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD IE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & OKAY LTD., Newcastle.
“SENTINEL” (HIGH PRESSURE)
To Run a,Steam Plant Economically the Pipes Must
Be Kept I?ree of Water, and the only satisfactory
method of doing this is by Installing an Efficient
Steam Trap. Other methods, such as separators,
drains, etc., are expensive and troublesome.
STEAM
TRAPS.
HAS “REGRINDING VALVE,”
THEREFORE “ALWAYS TIGHT.”
J. WILD RIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; and Wellington, N.Z.
ME PH AN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo" Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
sdf
BOUNDERS
No. 20 Planer
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Ball Bearings to all
Spindles.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustments to Side
Heads.
Delivery from
Sydney Stock.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
COUNTRY HOUSES and HOMES.
We are Specialists in this work and carry
Large Stocks ol Plants and Batteries.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd..
309 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
en
s
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid ush.
VTa
IS
All British
made, and the
most up-to-date
machine.
Mill
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
sfd
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.,
9-13 YOUNfc STREET,
SYDNEY.
Agents in all
the States,
THE “CARD” ORE CONCENTRATOR
m
wm.
m
■
m
; v '
mss
British Owned and
British Built.
Will Treat Coarse or Finest Material
according to Style of Deck.
N.GUTHRIDGELtd.
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
