

The Genial Spirit
R. G. WATKINS <SC 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: ASJCIIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
IWE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
159 George Street West, Sydney. 215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne. eustace bennett, General Manager.
Qiiliiil
mm™ •oe^iwi
litil'Buiiitß
SST'/^W
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using'
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD.
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
LITTfiM
u i run
“PINEAPPLE" HAMS & BACON
CHUBB’S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctoi's as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
F°r INDIGESTION
DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
GOLF
BALLS
E SIL
»
THE
GF ALL
SILVERTOWN
CO.,
GOLF
BALLS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
*ll!«
lists
nil
nisfi
isititlll [Slug »ii
Malthoid Roofing is different
because it has qualities which
many roofings have not. Besides
being absolutely watertight it
is windproof and weatherproof.
MALTHOID
“not the same as OTHERS.”
The Paraffine Paint Company <D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative)
Chains House - - Sydney.
Malthoid Roofs are handsome
roofs. They give the architect
an opportunity to express his Art.
They are quickly laid and never
give any trouble. Let us send
you Samples and Booklets.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s.v.o.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. K
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
'
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
ONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.37.—N0. 1887.]
[Thursday, April 13, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW NOVELS ALL FIRST-CLASS “READS,”
Lewis’s Chapel.
Hal Jet’s The Lady Aft.
Hay’s The First Hundred Thousand.
Lincoln’s The Official Chaperon.
Waugh’s Betty Grier.
Emcrspn : The Treasure of Hidden Valley.
Ilendry’s The Promise.
Edgar’s Kent the Fighting Man.
Parker’s Money Master.
Davies’s Andrew the Glad.
Smith’s Crown of Life
Niven's The S.S. Glory.
All at 3/6 per vol. Posted, 3/9.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 €O. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
- The Anzac Book -
Compiled in the trenches under fire by the
Anzacs themselves. Edited by Capt. C E
Bean in a dugout. The boys tell their own
pages Ilin ’ x 9in - describing
their Experiences and the true conditions of
LIFE ON GALLIPOLI.
Photos and drawings done with lodine
brushes, Signal Chalks and other unique appli-
ances. Intended as a greeting from Anzac
—now a remarkable and valuable souvenir
of the Big Adventure. Will be handed down
for generations. Profits go to the Red Cross.
Price 3/9 Post Free. Order vours now.
Address Anzac Dept.
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY LTD.
364 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
mustdie:
KOH POIStVtOIO POWDER.
THErdREfIT tNSECT DESTK/MR.
H'
Flic*
Flcaa*
Buga.
Mosquitoes,
Thu 9D
"MUSTDIE”
Certain Death to All Insects.
Full directions with each Tin.
Burn it —that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
—that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted
on the pillow at bedtime will effect-
ually keep away Mosquitoes.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recommended to
be used,_ for it is not only economical, but the
powder is distributed more effectively, and we
want you to get the best results out of every
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. per Tin.
FREE TRlAL.—Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H,
Box 1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and sample tin will
be sent post free ; or forward 9d. in stamps for
a full-size tin.
[4
The Red Page
First-aid for Flappers in Fiction
This is the third lesson in novel-writing
for the literary flapper.
You’d just love to write a novel, wouldn’t
you? Of course you write verse —I mean,
poetry; but —no, I haven’t time to hear you
read any of it just now ; but you want to
write a famous novel. Only, of course, with
things as they are at home you simply
haven’t the time nor the leisure to write a
line. There are the children —they take so
much looking after, and the meals to get
and the housewoi’k to do, and Aunt Martha
is so trying with her kidney trouble, and
mother seems to think you’re a slave, and
father is complaining about the in-
fernal untidiness of the whole house. What
chance have you of writing master-
pieces? And, oh, the lovely romances
that you dream, . the adventures your,
heroine goes through, the beautiful, stern-
chinned men who are madly in love with
her, the subsidiary adorers that you have to
petrify with a look of scorn, the. wonderful
heroine ! Of course, she’s you. That is the.
awful irony of life —life in a large, respect-
able family. You can imagine yourself in
the most thrilling situations, in the most
passionate embraces; but what chance have
you of thrilling Aunt Martha with her kid-
ney trouble, or of feeling emotional at the
noisy breakfast table? Home life simply
stifles you : washing the children’s faces and
cooking the dinner are slowly murdering
your genius. What you want, with your
rich emotional and artistic endowment, is
life, adventure, the great crowded world
outside. And a girl has. only one youth.
And the days drag on, filled with harassing
and petty household duties, and that great,
vital novel lies within you, unborn.
Yet the remedy is simple. All you need
do is to get out. The world is waiting for
you. chock Cull of adventure, crowded with
thrills, crammed with passionate lovers.
Clear!
There will be no need for you to invent
stories: the great world into which you are
voyaging is fulji of stories. You need not
invent a. heroine: be your own. Plunge
bravely into the maelstrom of Life, and
you’ll bring back that pearl above price, a
“best-seller.” The, city is full of men want-
ing to kiss you. Let them: kisses make
glorious copy. Exciting, too. for their own
sake* Live every minute of your life, and
put it all down in your novel. That master-
piece will almost write itself.
Take as your guide in this purple-
patched literary path the anonymous author
of Me: A Book of Remembrance (Unwin).
You must read it first; and you will make
one thrilling discovery: “Why,” yon will
exclaim, “that girl is exactly like me ! That’s
exactly how I would behave if those per-
fectly lovely and adorably hateful men tried
to kiss me. But, stuck at home like this,
what chance have I of even meeting one of
the brutes? But how like me that heroine
is! And, isn’t it wonderful, her story is
all true!”
Obviously it is all true. The author
Moes not expressly say so; but then,
if it were all made up, why should
she have to publish it anonymously? Of
course, Me was not an ordinary girl. But
then, no more are you. Down in your
heart, as in hers, isn’t there that “deep-
rooted conviction, which nothing in the
world could shake,” that you are “one of the
exceptional human beings of the world,”
that you are “destined to do things worth
while”? People are going to hear of you
some day. You are “not one of the com-
monplace creatures of the earth”; and you
to prove that vividly to the world.”
And, another marvellous coincidence, Me
was just your age—l7—when she set out
to conquer the world, and in less than, a
year had actually conquered it. It would
be criminal to waste one moment. Out you
go! 1
“I was seventeen,” says Me, “my heart
was light, and I had not been happy at
home.” So off she goes to a newspaper job.
in the West Indies, with, like you, “the
most acute, inquiring and eager mind of any
girl of my age in the world.” And when
she.was told that she had better be careful
because, in Jamaica, the men were perti-
nacious, she was quite calm. Like you, she
had “the most decided and instinctive liking
for the opposite sex.” That is the proper
attitude for any literary flapper to adopt.
And Me hadn’t long to wait. There was
an Englishman, the younger son in a poor
but titled family; but her first kiss was
given by a big buck nigger, an influential
native resident of Jamaica. (See page 59
for full details of that embrace.) Then-
there was Dr. Manning— Me had to struggle
to release herself. So she told him the
story of her life, and her ambitions. Always
do this —-Me invariably did, and always as
soon as she had met a man :it helped. And
when, after the black embrace, Me decided
to go to the United States, it was Dr.
Manning who offered her a position as his
secretary. Me jumped at it. Remember,
she was only your age, as innocent of the
world as you. But, before she left, the
young Englishman gave her his dog and got
his kiss. So her time in Jamaica was not
altogether wasted.
Nor <ji(J Me lose any chances on the train
journey to. Richmond, U.S.A. “Before I
even saw his face there was something about
his personality that affected me strangely.”
He had “the weariest and bitterest eyes I
have ever seen, though when he smiled I felt
strangely drawn to him, even that first
time.” Cultivate this habit of feeling
strangely drawn: it is half the battle. And
if you can feel “a sort of subtle premoni-
tion that this man was to loom large in
my life for all the rest of my days,” so much
the better. And when he asks you to dinner
on the car, do not “even think of refusing,”
though, of course, you had not been intro-
duced. And after dinner you will find your-
self telling him all of your poor little his-
tory. “And then, yes, I told him that very
first day I met him, of that horrible experi-
ence” with the colored gentleman. But, per-
haps, it wouldn’t be wise to offer to read
your poems to him. Me did, but it wasn’t
a success.
The first night Me spent at Dr. Manning’s
be came into her bedroom; but she fled to
the black servant’s room. So next morn-
ing she telephoned to the nice man on-the
train. Mr. Hamilton, wlio, of course, was
a millionaire, and fled -to him. He sends
her to Chicago and gives her a hundred dol-
lars, which be tells her to keep in “the
usual place,” her stocking. He also wants
to buy her pretty clothes ; but she refuses:
she. does not care for money: and she
sweetly tells him that she likes him better
than all the money in the world. That is
always a good beginning. And if you can
manage to kiss his sleeve, it also helps. At
Chicago Me is taken charge of by the
Y.W.C.A., where she decides to stay until
she had won Mr. Hamilton, the millionaire.
“I intended to court this man, and, what is
more, to win him, just as I intended to con-
quer fate, and. achieve fame in this city.”
But Me determines not to write to Hamilton
till she > could send him back his money;
and she artlessly wonders “if many girls
suffer from this passionate sensitiveness
about money. Was I exceptional? He had
said so; and yet I wonder.” No; Me,
judging by tile habit you immediately
acquired of accepting money from every man
who. wanted to kiss you,* your passionate
sensitiveness about money was not excep-
tional. And Me is quite frank. “Someone
once said of me that I owed my success
as a writer mainly to the fact that I used
my sex as a means to help me to climb.
That is partly true not only in the case
of my writing, but of my work as a steno-
grapher. I have been pushed and helped by
men wdio liked me, but in both cases I made
good after I was started.” So you needn’t
worry: you know you can mate good, too.
Me gets work as a stenographer at Chi-
cago .stockyards, and finds every male person
within range in love with her. This was
awkward for Me, because, probably like you,
she “always felt an inability to hurt by refus-
ing anyone who liked me enough to propose
to me. I got into lots of trouble for this —
call it moral lack in me—but I „ could not
help it at the time.” Cultivate that moral
lack. There was Dick, for instance. How
could she refuse to become engaged to him
when he was going away as a war-correspon-
dent to Cuba? Also he reminded Me of the
young Englishman in Jamaica; and she was
“terribly lonesome and hungry for someone
to care for” her. And Me does not deny
that, she liked his kisses. She offers you a
maxim that will assuredly help you on your
way through lifb. “Next to being kissffd by
the man you love it’s pleasant to be kissed
by the man who loves you.” And with his
strong young arms about Me, she felt “com-
forted and important.” Do you, in your
noisy and unsympathetic home, ever feel
comforted and important?
All the while that mysterious millionaire
is hanging around. Of course, Me would not
let him buy her clothes, yet when he takes
her to an expensive shop and she finds the
most wonderful bargains she never guesses
that It. is all a put-up job between the
millionaire and the saleswoman. The whole
shop was in the joke; but then the poor girl
was only 17 —your age; and you know how
little you know the price of expensive sables!
And if the saleswoman threw in silk stock-
ings to go with those expensive shoes, and a
hat and muff to go with the gown, you would
merely put her down as kind-hearted! But
what did it all matter, since Me had got one
of her stories accepted by a great New York
magazine? Of course, she soon spent
that money and then found that she had only
10 cents left. However, she met Mr. Bonnet
and told him all. He promptly gave her 15
dollars a week out of his small screw. But
Me would not allow that: she took 10 dol-
lars. “It is curious how, without the slight-
est compunction or any feeling even of hurt
pride or shame, I was willing to accept
money like this from a person whom I had
never seen before.” No; not curious-
clever.
Then, because this proud girl would not
accept a cent, from the millionaire—she
wouldn’t even live (at first) in an expensive
suite of rooms that lie had taken for her—
she. had to seek work as a stenographer
again. And her experiences with her em-
ployers! (See pages 260-1.) No wonder
she did not stay long! With a little luck
you might have those experiences yourself
Also Me proved the baseness of the man in
love with her. girl-chum by letting him kiss
her. It is time to modify Me’s motto •
Next to being kissed by the man you love,
or by the man who loves you, it is pleasant
to bo kissed by the man who loves your
chum,”
S
But,, of course, there was always the
mysterious millionaire in the background.
Though she wouldn’t accept a thing from
him except, of course, clothes and lodging
and a . piano and jewels and a safe to keep
them in—she gratefully accepted a highly-
paid post made for her, as an alleged steno-
grapher. Meantime the magazines were
publishing her stories. So Me was able to
pay Mr. Bennet back; and then he proposed.
Being already engaged, she had no objec-
tion to being engaged to him as well. “I
was too overwhelmed with mingled feelings,
and I was such a sentimental, impression-
able little fool that I did not have the
strength to refuse him. The first thing I
knew, there I was engaged to him, too.”
Next to being kissed by the man you love,
etc you should cultivate being “a senti-
mental, impressionable little fool.” How-
ever, Me realised “that almost any girl,
thrown among men as I was, half-way good-
looking, interesting and bright, was bound
to have a great many proposals,” (Full list
supplied on pages 296-7.) Nobly she rejected
all of them except the nice editor-man who
had accepted her stories. “How could I
reject him?” However, she tells us, she was
by no means unhappy. Surely you are half-
way good-looking, interesting and bright?
Well, be thrown among men, and you will
be by no means unhappy.
And when the millionaire heard of her
triple engagement, “he tumbled me out of
his lap.” But it hardly made any differ-
ence. He incited her to stay at his empty
country house—with the housekeeper, though
he promised to come and see her. And
proud little Me said, “I’ll go, Roger, if you’ll
take me in your arms and kiss me.” He had
never done that before; but noYv “he gave
me such a look,” and she simply didn’t know
how long she was in his arms.
And then —then she printed in a
paper the most awful things about the mil-
lionaire. Positively shocking! (See pagek
343-6.) So that was all off. And. “for the
first time in many days, like a child, I said
my prayers.”
That’s all. But Me is a “best-seller.”
Aud remember that all this happened before
Me w-as 18. You had better hurry. Drop
that hateful broom, leave’ the children’s faces
unwashed and Aunt Martha with her kidney
trouble, and get out into the wide world of
men—of millionaires and jewels and kisses.
That’s the open door to success in literature.
War
“I shall be content,” writes Max Aitken,
in Canada in Flanders (Ilodder and Stough-
ton; Is.), a record of the Canadians at the
Front, “if one Canadian woman draws solace
from this poor record of her dead husband’s
bravery; if even one reader recognises for
the first time the right of the Canadians to
stand as equals in the Temple of Valor with
their Australian brothers who fought and
died at Anzac....” His book is a con-
scientious narrative of the experiences and
achievements of the Canadians in the
war; it makes interesting reading,
though it is the doings of the Cana-
dians and not the author’s presenta-
tion of them that gives it its appeal. The
workris fully-documented, and provided with
manyNuseful maps, but, except where Max
Aitken describes individual deeds of heroism,
rather precise and dry. But to Canadians
it will prove absorbing. The appendices give
full lists of all the honors and rewards so
far bestowed upon Canadian fighters'. Aus-
tralians will be interested and envious in
hearing how' they do things in Canada in
the matter of training camps. “As soon as
the policy of the Government had been rati-
fied General Hughes devised and ordered the
establishment of the largest camp that had
ever been seen on Canadian soil. The site
at Valeartier was,well chosen. It lay some
16 miles to the west of Quebec, within a
day’s march of the gathering transports. The
soil was, in the main, light and sandy, and
a river of pure water was available. Yet the
work of adapting this virgin soil to military
purposes was enormous, and the transfor-
mation. effected within a fortnight bv an
army of engineers and workers, a remarkable
triumph of applied science. Roads were
made, drains laid down, a water supply with
miles of pipes installed, electric lighting fur-
nished from Quebec, and incinerators built
for the destruction of dry refuse. A sanitary
system, second to none that any camp has
seen, was instituted. Every company had
its own bathing-place and shower-baths;
every cookhouse its own supply of water.
Troughs of drinking-water, for horses, filled
automatically, so that there was neither
shortage nor waste. The standing crops
were garnered, trees cut down and their
roots torn up. A line of rifle targets three
and a half miles long—the largest rifle-range
ih the world—was constructed. Three miles
of sidings were run out from the wayside
station) and a camp telephone exchange was
quickly put in working order.”
Pierre Mille, whose delightful stories of
the French soldier, such as Under the Tri-
color and Barnavaux, placed him as a
Gallic Kipling now tells us of Joffre Chaps
(Lane, Is.). Unfortunately this seems hasty
work, though the skilled hand of the writer
does not too perceptibly falter. Pierre
e * l)ea^s the wave of invasion that
swept down-from the North—and froze. “It
seems as if the enormous wave has frozen
where it lies, has formed a wall of ice which
only the springtime of France will thaw.
So our friends (“Those who
stayed Behind ) are there behind the wall
ICe m! 11 L on :we know they are quite near
‘ ,1 d o they can to give us news
ox them and we to receive the longed-for
tidings. Now and then something creens
through, some rumor comes to our ever-lis
toning, ever-impatient ears, but it is seldom
what we want. It is not the friend or the
brother who is speaking, but some stranger
who tells of things unknown to him. jf
is like a communication from the ' other
world, a spirit-form, as it were, that evades
you, disturbs your composure, and some-
times fills you with deep emotion.” And
he tells, not of murder and ruin, but of" the
dogs of the devastated towns. “When all
the people were murdered or fled from the
place, the dogs were left behind. And in
one obliterated town the stranger mentions
that there were hundreds of dogs. “There
they were with their heads all turned in the
same direction, with a look of passionate in-
tense and melancholy expectation. Wait-
ing! What for? Sometimes one of the
refugees in Holland would decide to return
to his town.... And then sometimes, some-
times one of the dogs would recognise his
master! His dog! With pricked-up
ears and straining eyes they see far away
along the road to Holland a Man coming,
a Man without a peaked helmet, without a
uniform, Then what excitement, painful
and intense, among all the poor brutes.”
And when the dog departs with his master,
the others wait, howling. “ ‘ When you see
this, you must weep, monsieur, weep bit-
terly, as they do. Please excuse me.’ ”
There is much else that is humorous: the
book sparkles. Pierre Mille profoundly
understands the psychology of both his be-
loved soldiers and the crass Hun.
The anonymous author of Aunt Sarah and
the War (Burns and Oates, London) has
obviously found the sort of war-stuff that
appeals to the souls of English spinsters.
The copy this page has received from the
Sydney Book Club is the 11th edition, and
already 50,000 copies of this shilling book
have been sold. The formula is simple. Aunt
Sarah was the sort of woman who appre-
ciated her second-footman, Henry, because
he understood Belinda better than any of
the rest. Presumably there was a third and
a fourth and an ntji footman. And Belinda
is a fat pug. And when Henry enlists, Aunt
Sarah prophesies that he “will not darken
her doors again.” She is also of the opinion
that the war should be quickly ended , and
angrily asks why the German fleet is not
already at the bottom of the sea. That sort
of woman : apparently they used to breed
them in England. But the war was in-
vented solely to transform this painful per-
son into a miracle of generosity and kindness.
Simply, this page doesn’t believe it. Aunt:
Sarah writes the most foolish letters to her
enlisted nephetv, and a tepid love affair be-
tween the nephew and a tepid English girl
develops, by correspondence, into an engage-
ment, with much beautiful writing and the
quotation of High Church poets. And when
you are expressly told that the enlisted
second footman has a squint in his left eye,
you know that at Ypres or somewhere a
kind Ilun shell would carefully choose that
eye in order permanently to remove the
SQuint. Of course the hero dies, and equally
of course he receives the V.C. It is all very
noble and very, very affecting. Also, it is
all 1094 miles from reality. “Everybody
ought to read if,” says the English
Church Review.
•
“Jimmie Pannikin” :—-
In Everybody’s Journal for Feb., 1916, Mr. A. R.
Osborn, M.A. (who is evidently an alien of %ome
kifirl), contributes the eighth of a series of talks
to Australasian parents—“ What Books Shall We Give
Our Children?” —some suggestions to Australasian
parents on home-reading-. In the course of a three-
column article, Mr. Osborn does not make the slight-
est reference to Australian literature. Evidently he
is of the opinion that there are no Australian books
fit for the home-reading of the Commonwealth
kiddies. I have stoutly maintained for years, and
also yearrrs, that it is high time for our Aus-
tralian homes, churches and schools to give reason-
able recognition to suitable Australian books by
Australian writers. The utterly un-Australian aspect
and atmosphere of many Australian home, church
and school libraries shows either a shameful ignor-
ance or a contemptible indifference to Australian
literature.
Even the alphabet is being hit hard by
the war. The Pyoneer ov Simplifyd
Speling announces that “It haz been
desyded tu publish The Pyoneer everi uther
munth until pees iz restord.” However,
“Reederz ar erjd tu aply for leeflets seting
forth the aimz ov the Sosyeti.”


5
i 4 visiting
R
m
pri
ma
ece
ion
es
or
at WntAon,
riorderffs
1.
1 4,
• ft-
5130
15-50
S 131
15-5-0
n 127
59k
DMT 129
&-6-0*
9/26
BEIW
5126
THE illustrations on
this page are re-
duced fac-similes
of two pages in our
Portfolio of the AVin-
ter Fashions, which
faithfully presents the
Season’s Styles. Write
for a copy, post free on
request. It is an
authoritative guide to
the prevailing modes,
and enables everyone
to combine Fashion
with Economy through
the agency of Anthony
Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices.
No. Sl3o.—Effectively designed Model Robe Cos-
tume, in Black Chiffon Taffeta Silk and Velvet ; the Bodice
of Silk has smart Coatee of Velvet, with Collar of fancy
striped Velvet; new full Skirt, trimmed broad bands of Velvet
and finished buttons £5/5/-
No. Sl3l. — Handsome Robe Costume, of Striped Chiffon
Taffeta Silk, Bodice of Ninon with Silk Pinafore effect, fasten-
ing high at neck, finished strappings and frog ornaments of
Black Silk; wide Skirt, shaped belt and front panel of Black
Silk, in shades of Black and Saxe, Black and Purple, Nigger
Brown and Black, and all Black £5/5/-
No. Ml27.—Up-to-date Robe Costume, of Black Chiffon
Taffeta Silk, dainty Net Front over White, Collar and long
revers of Self material, Raglan sleeves finished hemstitching,
full skirt with deep shirred belt 59/6
No. DWI 29. Model Robe, of Black Silk Marquisette,
trimmed Chiffon Taffeta, Bodice has Pinafore effect with smart
high Collar of Silk, Marquisette sleeves, trimmed Silk frills;
Skirt has graduated bands of Silk finished at Waist, with Jet
buckle, lined throughout with Silk £6/6/-
No. Ml2B. — Attractive Robe Costume, of Chiffon Taffeta
Silk, Bodice of Ninon, high Collar and hemstitched front, with
crossover Pinafore top of Silk, ornamented Pearl buckles, wide
umbrella-shaped Skirt, corded at foot. Navy, Nigger Brown
and Violet 97/6
No. Sl26. — Effective Robe Costume, of Velvet and
Ninon, full Bodice of Ninon, high Collar, Sleeves and Vest of
Velvet, wide Skirt, has deep-shaped belt, finished pipings of
Satin, and buttons to tone, in Mole, Navy or Black.. 69/6
WE are Family
Drapers, Com-
plete House
Furnishers and Uni-
versal Providers, and
offer three-quarters of
a million pounds’
worth of the World’s
Choicest Commodities,
in variety that puts all
competitive effort in
the shade. Write for
illustrated Price Lists
of anything you Avant,
post free on request.
They place the im-
mense resources of
the new Palace Em-
porium at the com-
mand of e\ r eryone, and
enable no end of sav-
I
ings to be effected
through the agency of
Anthony Horde r n s’
Famous Low Prices.
J/xlxc/i/s/vg Designs///B//eSGiyeSi//////grs (Black orifevy)
at Anthony Horderns’
&
5116
5115
SI 7
5113
896
5114
996
15-50
'! IK.
95'-
796
No. SI 17. — Effective Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine
Coating Serge, five-eighth-length Coat, sac back, high Collar
and Cuffs of Black Caracul, straight Military Front, ornamented
Frog medallions, and wide shaped belt, shaped full Skirt with
pleat down centre front 59 / 6
No. SI 15.—Becoming Coat and Skirt Costume, of
fine Coating Serge, three-quarter-length Coat, set-in Sleeves
with turned-back Cuffs, loose pleated back, shaped empiecement
down front, ornamented Crochet Buttons, and patent-leather
belt, wide flared Skirt, Black and Navy i. 99/6
No. SI 16.—Smartly Designed Coat and Skirt Cos-
tume, of fine Coating Serge, seven-eighth-length Coat, inset
Sleeves, turned-down Collar of Black and White Striped Silk,
shaped empiecement down front, ornamented self buttons,
slightly flared basque, box pleat at back, shaped belt with
silk braid trimming, plain shaped Skirt, in Navy or
Black 89/6
No. SI 13. — Charming Coat and Skirt Costume, of
fine Coating Serge, three-quarter-length Coat, semi-fitting back
with flared basque, Military fronts, finished with braid and self
strappings, latest flared Skirt, Black or Navy £5/5/-
No. SI 14.—Dressy Coat and Skirt Costume, of Coating
Serge, seven-eighth-length Coat, semi-fitting back, set-in sleeves,
turned-down Collar, flared basque, fronts artistically designed
with Black Silk Military Braid, Skirt has tucks on hips, forming
pleats at foot., in Navy or Black 95/-
No. Ml 18.—Practical Coat and Skirt Costume, of
fine Coating Serge, five-eighth-length Coat, fastened to neck,
semi-fitting back with full flared basque, inset sleev.es, Collar
of self with over Collar of Velvet, finished wide Military Braid
and Buttons. Wide flared Skirt in Navy or 81ack.... 79/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
Cartridges
Shoot Straight
and Hit Hard
These two cardinal points
of a good cartridge, and
also that of reliability, are
always found in Win-
chester ammunition. No
matter what caliber cart-
ridges you want or whether
they are for use in a rifle,
revolver or pistol you will
get the best results by using
Winchester make. They
are sold everywhere.
Accept no substitute,
insist upon having
THE
w
BRAND
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for April
IpfiM
\Vf
11
If you read through this month’s list there will be no doubt in
your mind as to the fact that the world’s best talent is well
represented.
Among those that will very strongly appeal to you include, of
c-ourse, both Concert Records; and “Day of Resurrection”—
Easter Hymn (Edison Mixed Quartet) ; “My Old Kentucky
Home” (Chalmers and Chorus) ; “Love is King of Everything”
( Miller) ; “Laughing Love” —Whistling (Gorst) ; “Tickling Love
Taps—Fox Trot Suzi" (Jaudas’ Society Orchestra) ; “Listen to
that Dixie Band” (Kaufman and Chorus) : “Indiana” (W.
Van Brunt).
Call on your dealer and have those of your fancy played over;
if this is not possible, place your order early.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
25207 —Bedouin Love Song. Bass, oreh. acc. | 25210—0 Lord, Be Merciful. Soprano, organ
Arthur Middleton. I and oreh. acc. Marie Rappold.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2578 — Jesus Christ is Risen To-day—Easter
Hymn. Orch. arc.
Edison Mixed Quart r.
2579 — Dav of Resurrection —Easter Hymn.
Orch. acc. Edison Mixed Quartet.
2617 —My Old Kentucky Home. Baritone,
orch. acc. Thomas Chalmers & Chorus.
2520—Tickling Love Taps—Fox Trot Suzi.
For Dancing. Jaudas' Society Orchestra.
2625- —Liebesfreud. Violin, piano acc. by
Robert Gaylor. Richard Czerwonky.
2626 — Pilgrims’ Chorus —Tannhauser. Male
voices, orch. acc. Male Chorus.
262S —What is Love? —Watch Your Step.
Soprano, orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer k Chorus.
2631 —America (My Country ’Tis of Thee).
Mixed voices, orch. acc.
Metropolitan Quartet.
2633 —Listen To That Dixie Band. Tenor,
orch. acc. Irving Kaufman A Chorus.
2636—Desperate Desmond —Drama (Rehears-
ing the Orchestra). Vaudeville
Specialty. Fred Duprez.
2639 —Only Girl —Waltz Hesitation. For
Dancing. Jaudas' Society Orchestra.
2642—0 h. Maritana —Mari tana. Cornet and
trombone, orch. acc.
Louis Katzman & Simone Mantia.
2644 —United Service Passing in Review.
Sousa's Band.
2646 —Laughing Love. Whistling.
Charles Crawford Gorst.
2648 — Indiana. Tenor, orch. acc.
Walter Van Brunt & Chorus.
2649 — Song of the Chimes—Cradle Song.
Contralto, orch. acc. Beatrice Collin.
2650 — On My Way to New Orleans. Baritone
and tenor, orch. acc.
Arthur Collins & Byron G. Harlan.
233 1 .—When the Daffodils are Blooming.
Mixed voices, orch. acc.
Mixed Quartet.
23379 —I'm Glad My Boy Grew Up to Be a
Soldier. Contralto, orch. acc.
Helen Clark A Chorus.
233 S0 —Love is King of Everything. Tenor,
orch. acc. Reed Miller.
233S1—Valcartier—Canadian March.
Sodero's Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Tftie Booty-Croaker
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
v- •' |
jbO
m
u
•«
T
o Jk
yj
m
:T
mmmm
n
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
'l.
If any illustration appearing in Tub
Bulletin t.kes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
i J
A tin of my very own
—and it’s that lovely
OalverKs
Toolfi Powder
“I Felt Extremely Weak
and Gould Scarcely Walk.”
“I Was Laid Up in a Hospital.”
“But am now Completely Restored, and my Sleep is
Rendered Most Refreshing” The Wonders of Clements Tonic!
THERE are many Business Men in Sydney to-day who feel the effect of the
great heat, the strenuous times caused by the War. and the worry of business
to such a degree that they are more dead than alive when the day closes —
almost too fatigued to reach home. To those men the letter published below by
a prominent city accountant appeals, for it tells in a few words how jaded nerve
strength can be restored, insomnia banished, and health regained bv the use of
this well-recognised remedy, Clements Tonic. It is the medicine thar decreases
weakness and increases strength. It should be in all houses in these oppressive
days. No house is medically equipped without it. Read this letter: —
200 Victoria Street. Darlinghurst, Sydney, 11., 12/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“After suffering and being ill in hospital for about 12
months. I met a friend of mine (a chemist), and. feeling
extremely weak and scarcely able to walk properly. I asked
him what I should take to bring some vigor into my system.
"He strongly advised Clements Tonic, and. not to be
sceptical about it. I took his advice and have since thanked
him most heartily. That was about six weeks ago, and I can
most truthfully say that the Tonic HAS CREATE!) WONDERS.
“My constitution is almost completely restored. From
restless nights I can now sleep soundly. * awakening in the
morning thoroughly refreshed. My appetite, which was very
jaded. lias returned, and I thoroughly enjoy every meal I take.
“You can make use of what I have written, as it is a
man's duty to advise his fellow beings what benefit he derives
from a medicine that will do universal good. I really feel
TWENTY YEARS YOUNGER SINCE TAKING THE TONIC."
“(Signed) J. N. S. CLARKE.*’
If you have Insomnia you should take Clements Tonic, and Sleep LIKE A CHILD.
It is the great WEAK-NERVE Remedy in Peace or War. Its effect on the jaded
constitution is magical. It does good because it is good-. All Chemists and Stores
sell it.


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
IiSPIU -
p E WITT’S
* WvSsxi i
Kidney&BladderPills
These Pills also act on the Tiv-er. i
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE A
£<e'.
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes I)e Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidney u Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
BE /^DVISED!
DON’T RUN
RISKS!!
How many fail to regard
Colds seriously. It is one
of the commonest troubles
and at the same time most disastrous—because
most neglected.
The Safest, Surest, Speediest and
Pleasantest method of getting rid of Coughs
and colds are
Wilson’s "Pino-Mentho’
Pastilles
A pastille dissolved in the mouth will pro-
duce immediate relief. Obtain a tin at
once from your Chemist.
The cost is only 1/-
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St., Sydney
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly— nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“ For Your Hair.”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hail - —get a
bottle of Rowland’s Macassnr Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
co’our for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hatton-garden, London, E.C.
Bonning'ton’s
Jubes
For the VOICE # #
THROAT <£L LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss,
iney afford immediate relief in ease of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action,
tnese Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
£o.
''Vti
*7
y Ks-
i/
sS-
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them Ihe best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
17:) HAURIS STREET - - SYDNEY
FREE TO
SMOKERS 1
Mr. R. ,T. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W,,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
Alll CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
214 George Street, Sydney.
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Riddle.
I am as one who wanders in a deep
And pathless wood, and feels through all the
place
Beatings of unseen wings, and on his face
Soft breaths like a caress, and, as in sleep,
Through his enchanted brain strange visions
creep
Of sorrowful dead lovers, whose high race
Died long ago : nor can their import trace
Clearly, nor why he cannot choose but weep.
O Life, Life, Life! who knows what the
wood’s heart
May hold for him who follows unafraid
Whither thy spell may 'lead him? What
strange flowers
Bloom in the silence of thine inmost hours?
What secret spring murmurs its song apart?
W hat horn of fairy wakes the hushed and
moonlit glade?
N.s.w.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.
Sanctuary.
The day is ended. Night comes gliding down
From off the hills—a sable goddess crowned
With amber aureola. Hushed beneath
Her gaze the flowers droop their heads. The
bird
Choirs silent fall; while from the valleys
And all the river windings pale mists raise
Their surpliced arms in ghostly intercession
Athwart the deepening sky.
From great, still trees
Ripe leaves come rocking gently down to
earth,
And some find rest unon the shining stream.
The pungent odors of moist earth arise ;
And leafy smoke from dying vesper fires
Breathes incense round this place of sanc-
tuary.
lievealment and a brooding peace are here.
On my heart’s altar now the bell is toll’d—
A Presence passes o’er my bended head,
And lifts with resurrection hand the stone
From off the tomb where long-dead Hope
was laid.
VICTORIA.
M. B. BATON.
Mirabel.
Love is red, you vow to me.
Mirabel had rosy lips
Rare as rose that slyly dips
To the wooing of the bee,
And a cheek of brilliancy.
Love kissed Mirabel last night;
Now she goes so triste and white
That I wonder is it true
Love grows red as vampires do
With a springle in his blisses
Set to drain with lingering kisses
All the red we loved so well
From the mouth of Mirabel?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Cigarette.
We had lived for ages on service “fags”
And the issue of “navy cut” ;
My one old pipe was as rank as cheese,
And black as a black-soil rut,
As I sat one evening nursing my knees
By the dap of my oil-sheet hut.
A Light Horse laddie from Anzac way
Blew in : he was free from dirt,
His boots and leggings were nearly clean,
And so was his service shirt;
He’d a mild Egyptian his lips between,
And the scent of it almost hurt.
Pie offered me one as he stood and yarned,
And ere he went on his way
He filled my case from his scanty store,
Then- left with a cheery “Hooray” ;
And I sit smoking before my door,
Dreaming an hour away.
The dusk drops down on the barren hills,
Deepens "and turns to jet.
There is much to-night that I would recall
And much I would fain forget;
But swift they come to me, memories all,
On the scent of a cigarette.
The Light HorSe laddie has gone his way,
And whither that way may tend
I know no more than I know his name,
But I hop§ that the gods will send.
Should he meet mischance at this bloody
game,
In the hour of his need, a friend.
walker’s ridge.
A. I'ANSON.
Love the Worrier.
She loves me still! How do I know?
Because she frets about me so.
She worries me with loving care
Until I’m driven hard to swear.
Behold me, dazed, compelled to say
Why I don’t grow as stout as Gray,
Or eat the meals her father ate
Before he knocked at Peter’s Gate.
’Tis vain to say I’m never ill
And never want Gray’s vest to fill.
Dear girl! she gets in quite a huff
If I dare hint I eat enough.
She doesn’t keep it up. Oh, no !
Unmothered for long months I go,
Taking the care I always take,
For hers and for the children’s sake.
But some dark day, with heart at sea.
She finds it’s time to “mother” me;
And so she does, until I swear—
Then she sits wet-eyed in her chair.
She loves me still! She must, bedad l
Or else she wouldn’t make me mad.
VICTORIA,
HER HUSBAND


Vs
&
\\
•?
5.., '
% ->
JV
v .-»
"PERDRIAU”
The Macintosh that is guaranteed to keep you absolutely dry in the heaviest
downpour.
The materials are proofed with pure rubber, and will withstand tropical
conditions.
We are Waterproof Clothing Specialists, and can fulfil the requirements of
Man, Woman, Boy or Girl.
Full range of Patterns and Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
Range
Letter
B
C
D
MEN’S RAGLAN.
Material Shades
TWEED, light weight (Derby) Dark Grey
CASHMERE, medium weight Olive
Price
35 -
42-
CASHMERE, special quality, medium weight ... Olive\
CANTON, light weight Fawn and SlateJ
50 -
Range
Letter
R
S
u
WOMEN’S RAGLAN.
Material Shades Price
CASHMERE Olive 25 -
INDI ANAS Dark Navy 27/0
CASHMERE Olive 42/-
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED WATERPROOF.
Perdriau Macintoshes and other Rubber Goods can be supplied through your
Storekeeper or direct from the Manufacturers —
ail'!
3
ji
1
M
3
I
V fi-
Manufactured
in Austra/ia by
0 0
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH.
t
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee "
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
The Jollywells
'
H
m
■
With hearts so light
The Jollyicells bright
J.re in the surf
In costumes tight.
They sirim at ease
Whilst ocean’s breeze
To highest pitch
Their hunger keys.
After a "bake" —
Their lunch they take.
“REX" GOODS of course
Good lunches make.
A Dyspeptic Who
Wines and Dines
Is apt to be found whining after dining.
But the dyspeptic who after dining takes a
little
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
will not do any whining. For “Rex" Luncheon Cheese contains all the valuable
properties of perfectly matured Full Cream Cheese. an<i it is only 'green" Cheese
that "dyspeps."
In most well-conducted homes nowadays a tin or jar of "Rex" Luncheon Cheese
goes on the table with as mu 'a regularity as the tablecloth.
It is fine for all kinds of Sandwiehes. and
may be eaten with or without butter.
Procurable from all Grocers. Ask for
“Rex" Brand and avoid “Just as Goods."
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES include:—
•Res" Ham Pale.
••Rex" Veal and Tongue Pate.
••Rex" Pork Sausages. lib. tins.
Rex" Pork and Bean*. Ulb. tins.
••Rex” Camp Pie. in tins.
"Rex" Brand Lard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
"Rex'" Pork; Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex" Pis>" Fm in Jelly. lib. tin'.
"Rfi" Lirndh Tonjuf' in JHlj. Üb. tins.
"R«" Sh«p Tonsue? in Jelly. life. tins.
Tenmorarily out of stock.
FOSSITT, JONES S CO. LTP.
Curers of 11 Rex ” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
TWO IN ONE Shoe Polish
UNLUCKY FOR DIRTY BOOTS.
The Shine that Won’t Rub Off.
It doesn't lie greasy on the surface of a boot.
It feeds leather as no other Polish does.
It is absolutely free from Turpentine. Acid or Spirits.
It oils as well as polishes, but doesn’t soil the clothing. As its name
implies, it is a paste polish that combines all the good qualities of the
liquid and paste polishes without their injurious effects.
Colors: Black, Tan, White.
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING WHOLESALE FIRMS AND STOREKEEPERS.
AYERS O. JAMES PXY. LTD., Sole Australasian Agents,
122-128 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 19 YorK Street, Sydney.
The spirit of supreme excellence; the
spirit with the inimitable flavor and
unvarying mellowness; the spirit that
for So vears has been preferred
by the most exacting connoisseurs.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable’
WHISKY


The Bulletin
Ptegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 37.—N0. 1887.
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916.
Price 6d.
THE INJURED HUN.
“Germany is a peace-loving nation, and never did desire war.” —German Chancellor to the Reichstag last week.
“Can’t yer SEE what a peace-loving man I am?”


NOTICE TO AGENTS.
EASTER HOUR AYS, t9lb.—ln order
to cop** with the Easter traffic “The
Hulletin** for that week will be published
one day earlier. \ ir.. 19th April.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for tUe While Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave .in! Melees) Streets, Mot?man. for The
Hclletis Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., ill George Street, Sydney, N.SAV., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONC’E A WEEK.
TI'UMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
fin Advance, Only.)
For £1 Rs. Rtf. per uknmim jreit can bare Tits
BfLLKTts repafor/.t. to jica erery ueei for a
Jcvr, s:vci«l t'-V .Vitmher. post put.*.
Clryxs, drafts, elf.. trlioA should be crossed, aud
all Hu siuess Uv*n wHMttKtiona to be addressed to The
Mmmaper,
Special" Notice.
InsufiSeieotlp stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contexts of this paper are by the
publisher*. The right to reproduce or translate a*y
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
p- essly resorted by the publishers.
The Kaitor trill carefully read, a.nd. tr here prac-
ticable. actaosrW.ce fa the "Corrospoudouee" column
alt contributions submitted, whether i» the form of
Political. Social or otter Articles, Ferse. Short Tales
cr Stete&es (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding tiro columns in length, or, say.
A• o tronfr. c-e specialty acceptable}, Parag-aphs.
Letters or Xeurspaper Clippings. All ctMaaaaWrfojw
trifl be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bclletix urill retwm all unsuitable VS. rdi
the addr.-ss is specined and stamps are enclosed. But
no VS. trill be returned, e- nrownred, unless these
c• ;• s :■ e "• ' ’t n :
tciShout stamps for return it trill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if mot acceptable. Per-
sonal apptieafsns v return of VS. cannot receire
attention. The Bclletis derirer, further, those
irodfoy .VS. to distinctly undtrstund that it is mot
responsible for the presereati >n or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In liiack and White
dtjiene JAppfjrri.e to T.tE Billkti.n original
humorous or other topical drawings tit tine or xash.
Of ssdiciemt merit and interest end adapted for
I'tCKCV rep-- or any int s : photograpi
illustrative of a current event, mill be paid for same
m occepl«*ce. .!».* jortere eo»fit**!*;/ a yoorf idea
but unitted for direct rcproduct : on —f.e., any picture
which has to he redrawn —(rill he paid for as a
s<ipresti-r» only. The cv» i ; t‘ons under which suck
artistic coutribuHecs wilt he received are those
applying to VS.
To Travellers \br*vad.
(HpW of Thk Billetin m be e*‘:i«e»l f* Load-a.
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordoa
and Got eh. Imitate iVrm.
Hoorn Artiv'A. —The Central A'etr* Ayeary, Cepe
town. Purban and J’dvann^siurg; Damson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg : and others.
Uaxapj*.-— T'< emme - S r v Co., ltcvrovre*-.
AG.: ©. S. Fesyth and v\k. tfl ttasrs ,« Nr-.ref.
I'aacearve. * ('.: Jepson H-vs.. Mmat mo. B.C.
U.N.A.—ftneai ftripr AVtrr Gee, Market Street.
M * Eruacsi**; f. K j wei:. CM. C.$~A.: Ch<l-f*
iews Ap-acy. corner Fifth usd P Street*. San P->oo.
Cal.; Bay Cx:y V 'x Go.. Nets E-ax-x-oc
y cs Co.. I'hiljuelshw t. C-X-L: IT. f. LtneUn.
SI'Wl, 8m IHoortJfOc Qveea Ofty AVarr Go..
.'lre - c'i and Cl- S ■ •• *.'; -;./•••. U.' I
Eresrr.—(pav lion, JV-r kt:rf. E-rymt; X.
Hoang. Cain. Egypt.
Hex,; K-.xv. —t ever and Co., Pedde~ Street,
lloag Kong.
Cktlox.—lT. t;. p Pertrm, a BaiTie Street. Fort
CotombsK
Ba?I a.—D x Pro?.,
Uo'tase Kates.
N ' ~ - T -i Bv-.t.vrix --ed ** t.Viee
paper \; T iron r\ tut tke Cent** tt wealth. JfooriloW.
I'tji. Pff Payna. Morfolt and Lord Howe I slaw is.
Pic.. . C-t : ; Ov/uWt. AC Sea Roxre. IRte..
LJL Only one newspaper should be enclosed in ea;k
mttbti —ori-muHre.' fst.; to tpxt.. ivd.;
tbrx. to Hot.. Sd.; eisewhere. 4*t., H . ami id. each
aiditiotat ioz.
jTie %}zzUe£in.
THURSDAY. APRIL lx UTtv
SOAPSUDS AND WAR.
The sum of «8 buna wfcdora lies in view-
ng things in their proper yr p*. ti ers. A
cwterpoilar. inspected through a nimewye,
may kok bigger than a crocodile, and the yell
of a hawker of b»nnr nay drawn oat the
satfd mil of a poet: hat these sure single
things which we mentally adjresc and balance
nicely on our inteSectual astenna*. When,
however, it tonet to natters winch on
aceoont of their world ptiwointnee shonH
b- gb-~' : aid m: ism red vtti far re re
rare, ore lose aS this nke sense and readily
' v i rearing kit:--re f r a re g t.gi
- -• 's bad; Fir ye s r free. -■ : is t re
- . s ire hiring .I:ati ti - is
the at.- : Idan.ders and Fdand. while niii-
K*«s of me a are locked in « Mood grapple
fcr wedi sopreoaney. when ml oar former
lie ale ore tottering and all oar new hopes.
have ia them as dement of fear, while
noting- are tedfiog night and day as they
i- ; r tided ire fret - is i r- a i : i
the eonfasaen. Che swefiiag hkat of a tmt
i hr arres s - attsur ;re of the Br tish
pwple; and uses gravely woasi-r what isfm-
enre hte words wfil have on the 13 waning
nati us. It John Hotsins. sa :--- d perk,
s at *1 that m bis .iirei.c - -ry German
should be fried t a ire dears brew a in otL
*•» one would stake a ay acre of the fact : bur
when Wiuixm lurs. b drer oc s*>ap.
declares that Gunn trade sbodi he
allowed free r*x*a» to rr w after the war.
re : that ; ~ tt- -re» >• -'f .-as- ■■ re: tie
lie hi b> mb. tire t- re r f i - r
is cabled atoood the world and High Can-
mtss. nets a ad .urs reel that they must
nwoil? argwe the peonl orith this grant
yrlhr persooß Yet Wum* Lntx has
rendered no service tn the Skate greater Ann
that rendered by John Hopkins, and lias
shown no special ability as a statesman, an
economist or a student of international ques-
tions. He is simply an English tradesman
who. like many others, was in times prior
to the war sentenced to a baronetcy by his
political party for conducting his own busi-
ness profitably. It was no sort of discredit
to him that he grew rich out of the washtub:
but it is absurd that on the strength of such
an achievement men should pause from a
fierce struggle for national existence to hear
him confidently dictate the terms of the
future peace.
* * * *
The doctrine that William preaches is
one with which the title that gets him a
hearing is closely connected, and one that
had a lot to do with creating the conditions
which made this war possible. Because such
men turned away from rendering down mut-
ton-fat and prated in public about the
strength of Britain being “due to open
trade and freedom of the seas.” when it
came to the test of war Britaiu was found
without the strength required: wherefore
Belgium was tr. dden down in dust and
bio.*d while Britain furiously built the force
that the Levers kept her from building pre-
viously. Because suih men said in the past
that "tariffs against Germany were a cow-
ardly cry. worthy of a backward race." the
Prussian gathered the wea 1 1 h that enabled
him to defy civilisation and inflict nameless
injuries on the homes of the simple folk that
trusted England. And now that such men.
with their shameful work still victorious
and the foe they armed still in the field,
should declare that “when the war is over
all bitterness must cease" is to add insult to
the injury that their contemptible policy has
already wrought. Whatever the end may be.
and however the broken German may appear
in British eyes when the guns cool, it is n<n
for those who caused the calamity of the
war itself to say that a continuance of their
old methods is the only road open for the
future. With or without men like Ekvek
the Kaiser might have lifted the lid of Hell:
bnt without such people and their unpatriotic
futilities Britain would have been ready to
jamb it on again and hold it down.
* * * *
The one great essential thing now before
Britain and hor Allies is to salts'; ti. Gor-
mans. It may he necessary that the smash-
ing should go further than a mere defeat
of their armies in the field. The strength of
those armies was an outcome of German
trade: and with a revival of that trade there
might be a revival of the armies and a fresh
gathering of war clouds. For this reason it
may he necessary to go risht on with the
fighting after the war is over and skin the
enemy of his resources down to the last
crank and spindle of his manufacturing
s - in. The common German chemical
smell-factory has been shown to te
venomous, and even the workshop when the
miklest-looking Hun glued oakum on the
head of a wooden d 11 was a breeding-place
ot murder. You cannot meet a tig --snake
in the spirit of the Sermon on the Mount or
hand a hunting tii-tr a vegetarian leaflet.
If the g d secs f the nati< ns that have
: tight German militarism to a stanistiil
dec-ides that it is necessary to pnt the whole
German nation in a cage f r several ag-s
there is plenty of justification for the
coarse. Revenge may be particularly bad
business; but the judicious cutting of the
claws and extraction of the teeth of a
dangerous wild beast is not necessarily
_ It • ; -man tt; : - - ■: :
teeth to Prussia nism. Europe will be well
advised to abolish it as far as possible. But
when a person like Lever, wh se policy has
already brought nameless h rr rs on the
world, talks smoothly about open trade and
i~im.ii • 1 ' - h- is : r lathy
r. •: worrying over the German end of the
problem at all. Hut giving voice in his -.wn
peculiar way t his alarm lest Britain sit *uM
£rew sane and attempt to protect herself.
I: was a. Ilals —and no d abt the same
Lever —who raised a smile in Australia by
hi" belated suggestion that our C'-mmon-
wealth ought : stand n a reeking f unda-
t: an of sweating nigger, and who* mak-s
hr. wn hr th er a pr>p of ins own s at "is
•ti l.ttl t I' 'i.i ii • • mist ... -----
wi rking. white Brit c. elevated to a place
of dignity by protection against unfair e«n-
-(v :iti-n with the ch-ap and discolored
foreigner, most appear m re awful to con-
template than even German viot ry. This
i> the inner m ining f th- Lever bleat:
and hoard in its prof - r relation to the war
chores it is a dis*. -mant and disgraceful
noise.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
But it is emparatiwir safe to leave even
the most futile sort f f reign-trader to
blow s:ap butties upon imaginary - -es f
peace: f r the nations are at list awake and
in dead earnest, ami. ilth ugh Lever may
not know it. his rder has f re--x ; ss- i
away. The world started afresh whew the
its: than- f cordite expl- ded ever the
i~ .~itt it tt. ii i tit i~h 1- utl . k -
new one. Pfaun, slraightforwaid dealing on
-a. sis f ragged •mm c-s- us- h-i.-f rth
takes tt- place of . utw rr pia crudes and
fils*; maxims f p.-littcal e-i:>G.omy. If the
cremy is advancing, tig a trench; if
efteaer wrkmes of trier la ids ire threaten-
. '
am yliia tkings t. it Sam in the future will
tide retard : and th- aian wh ■ prates a:« it
beying ii the tieat-est mark:t usd seflinx
in tie dearest will have dead c- ws tkr~wu
a. him. M i will >t3l S? steced t; when
they steak, and there will still be reverence
for authority i bit the authority must drer
pr -re itself and 'low that .t has meant
s. me thing and 'reen reresessed ~f some tre re
ti.-al vitality since August. I’M4. Seputa-
t ns rmed pr - - that iate have r tt- up
in bates sm> ke . ami. uhl-ss renewed and
re-stamped, are r. mr-r current in. In
the n v rder Wni:i« Heskett Lever.
idsrt_ is d i> mere mnsecieuce than a bar
of be own sooty*. Along hundreds mi n3e
id ret is f g . - ;
tret *s their reap ut-ef-iar- » : s-rs ree”-t
leugfit and never endnred: and they and not
tie doctrinaires attest say wka* they are
. i - : ~ • • : 7
with tt when it is w-w. Fra’ pfeum east
pnyfflent of _ :!• »'d ac*t sure ring the rew
wvrtd hnys tie r git - - ;imt with N ti feet
on tie Ofti smbcerereis that c-pressed ire
WHY NOT NATIONAL GUILDS?
Dear Bulletin. —The suggestion that our
Trade Unions should take a leaf from the
ancient book of the Trade Guilds of London
(B. 23 3 TO) and concentrate their effort on
“securing for the nation a big output of
work of the highest class.” points the way to
a more hopeful development of unionism.
At present the labor world is appallingly
barren in ideas. It has created a huge mass
of machinery for the purpose of bettering
itself, and now that the last rivet has been
driven into Juggernaut it doesn’t see any
way of using him except to force down hours
and to force up wages. Higher wages mean
a better standard of living: shorter h*»urs
mean more jobs and less unemployed. The
argument is overwhelming to a narrow intel-
ligence. but obviously there is a limit to its
application, and the limit shows very quickly
here in Australia, where we are trying to
build up new industries, and the margin of
profit to be divided between employer and
employed is smaller than in older countries,
while the rate of wages is higher.
Why haven't the brains of the Labor world
been concentrated on production? One
doesn’t need to examine any Labor politician,
secretary or organiser with a microscope to
discover that he is generally lukewarm about
new industries and suspicious of any
idealism with regard to work. He has been
bred to the idea that work is the curse of
Adam, the doom of his particular class, and
that the bread he eats is unnaturally soured
by the sweat of his brow. Quite a false
idea, psychologically. Most workmen who
have not had all the vitality sweated out of
them by harsh conditions take a pleasure in
their work. They think about it. talk about
it. boast about it. and would die of sheer
boredom if they were cut off from it. But
for political purp ses they have been encour-
aged to think that the very name of it is
hateful to them, and that some day it will
be reduced to a little muscular exercise in the
cool hours of the morning.
Yet the inference that the Australian
workman is.lazy, inefficient, unintelligent, or
unduly cantankerous w»-n't hold water, even
dirty water. Any man who has knocked
ai« ut the world kn- ws quite well that the
exact contrary is the case. The average
Australian w rkman is more painstaking
than the American, more energetic than the
Englishman, and more intelligent in the cs-
cf t, is than any f tire varied races of
Europe, from Guido Ferri in the Sonth to
Niels Nielsen in the N rth. And when he
i' transferred to Gallipoli he eschews heroic',
"tiles c -wn t learn ail that can be learnt
about the technical side of the business in
hand, and talks with pride of his “job."
Still it is little u" asking Biiijim t bring
back this same enthusiasm for work from
M utrah and other outlandish plai -s where
he is bearing the heat of the day. As sure
as death it will have evaporated' long before
he tuts gun t swing a civilian pick >r pnsh
a civilian plane in a worksh and he will
1 e as ready as any of his nnmilitary mates
s;r:se for higher wages and sh iter t urs.
The difference is that everything and every-
body conspires to convince him that his
military job is honorable work dene for tie-
sake of his country, while his civilian job is
merely unpleasant graft d m- fra weekly
wage and the profit of an unpleasant
stranger.
And s :h-~- pn ._em is how to transfer
Biixjim s enthusiasm f r his military bon
: his civilian ooeuuati n. Patriotism and
'Ueer necessity call f r m re and better
production. Only in this way ,an we
emerge from the world-conflict with our
present standards of living intact, to say
U thing about improving them in -he future.
But Hiixj im's union nlhriil will not tell
him that patr: :;$m d-mands more and bott-re
pndii:: c. He will tell Biujim > whit is
rhe?- -rieallv true • that he is a wage-slave
w rkirg for profiteers, and BnxaiM will fee!
that his status Lis deteri rated when c*n - he
- e s : - i:ti: :. <
a: present inspired has the Elusion that pro-
duction doesn't mat: r very much—that the
only important thing is : see that the work-
-' - - - st ■ s : :: -v i- n 11 t ' : . ■
divider. And in s~ ;te f Arbi trail n Courts
and Wages Beards, that doctrine wffl iead to
' '• - - ns and i-avi:
road-metaL
The time has come for Australian work-
men t strap this ilea and find something
ptter t. take its place. And by borrowing
wnat is rest from -he past thev will find
- ' -in :h- ii i i-a .
...tm- ~::h i rt.h tri - • -h ::: i tt. mi
--- 7 7 : s m-thing ,-t:-r ah-a i -
-h- 1 - a f ■t’iid wraagi- a> at h urs and wages.
M <: f the test w rk in :h- w rid was i ---
wh-m ti- guilds ■ ntr iled incus:?- Their
chief virtue was that they concentrated on the
- I'“ora a mi ran i- sure that th-;~
members knew their trades arc. aid r*d
w-erx. giving them in return an hm rub'--
status, and as nearly as possible the full
prvdnet of their labor. If oar wii<w~ lmd
- '• •- 5 tutt imt-d in them most u the
p-.n/ stent in strikes woeid he used ;u
ig'p-t i tuetr rganisatt ns. tasking them
llatkles-pn. f. and eveutnaily fit to run any
*vdh*tey that was entrwsted to then.
• *: ~ si it - 7 *" tn i . - 7 -v - p :
" 7-h rmnsati n : m r s t tea : i -
tr . c y :u- S ate A Railway Guild, : -
- “• ~ 7 ire si - • :
-- i 'be si nos and navvies, a" •- • •
r-.-iTo i _ hart-r : ran the railways, our;
' ' ' the State an r yoru r t . • 7 '
interest -a moneys advance*! f r re»-
*. axs r nstrn-t': n. The vn-rshii of
t.m. and -■ ung st xk would. g •• r—sc
in the State. hut the detafts of th*
manm -ut w o: :e arrat.g-d by - : - -\i
direct rare, and the workman w old have
s-rne a ctro ver his w-.rk. He w uid be a
rut :sm u ms-- t t a hwiocist. and th--
- : : * -‘ - : • tn tut r st
ww&i rave hint i sus £ dign • f -re
mak- him a timer .-arisen And with a gi' i
‘ r *h- -.a- •.
w at U mo -.n-a-t-t - • . - ; .>
.- f - : ~m - or- - i >•>-. - - v 1
- - -- -' ’® k '“ ' a t“v u*sutonts. hsyinn
- ' v ' u- .it x - r
t» be used .* aay parabular railway.
But railways ar** «»v in*lire**tlv f«\>£ticc*vs
w-tses. and it fcs is pr- dmrtiow that'the
rxai-a id a w -cud bear its .h- - .-sc fruits.'
things are, polities rob the industrial world
of its most brainy workmen. Instead of
concentrating on the problems of their dif-
ferent crafts, the improvement of technical
processes and quality of goods, they
spend their energies on organising purely
political machinery, and naturally have for
their personal objective a cushioned seat on
some Parliamentary bench. Hut the direc-
tion of their guilds would give them all the
politics they wanted, and their interests
would be to stimulate production instead of
hindering it. The Fourteen Houses would be
relieved of most of their harassing industrial
business ( upon which the oninion of insur-
ance agents, lawyers ana importers is not
very valuable) and would be free to deal
with purely national problems. It might
even become clear that these could be dealt
with by one National Parliament.
Anyhow, it is evident that the development
of the guild idea would mean a self-contained
Australia. The Woolworkers' Guild would
have no interest in heaving bales of fleece into
a ship and hauling it out next year in manu-
factured form, and the Bootmakers’ Guild
would see that a good high tariff protected its
products from the cheap labor of Europe and
Asia. It is too soon, however, to talk about
final The important thing about
the guild idea at present is that it swings the
attention of the workman back to production
and kills the notion that work is the enemy.
More control, and not shorter hours, should
be the slogan of all decent, self-respecting
unionists. Naval Minister Jensen had the
glimmering of a real idea when he entrusted
the outfitting of transports to the unions
concerned, and he has admitted that the
' •heme w- rkM smoothly and ee nomically.—■
Yours.
VANCE PALMER.
COTTON—THE LIAR!
"RiMr" asks for the best: —
I don't want to know whether Australia can grow
cotton profitably by white labor, I don't want to
know whether we can pot oat tons of pumpkin jam,
I don't care whether an Australian has intelligence
enough to produce a profitable be-flewdrama or not!
There are a lot of other posable manufactures of a
second-rate s:-rt in which I have not a shred of
interest, and a lot of prolific inferior products which
might be raided from the soil do not more me
more than a distant prospect of a broken-down gar-
bage-tip: bat particularly for c-octon I hare no rime.
TV few clothes Australia needs and that can legiti-
mately be worn in most of the continent ought to be
of the very best materials: and I take the solid
ground that cttir is not a roi material, but at
the very best a poor substitute for the three fine
staples-—silk, wool and linen. It cannot be shown
titit for any important purpose cotton is superior to
any of these: hot if it has socie special value for
maxi eg limp-wicks or expksires or something. I
hare no objection to one patch of it being grown for
such pcrpiep. I am n>:< bigoted about it; but I
wars the accmised thing kept dean cat of the textile
industries. That in a land pointing the freest wools
in the world the majority of the little children should
be da: in poenase-cia-attracting coti n is nothing
short of a national scandal. That the proud Aus-
tralian man who rounds up lire wool in the mighty
cast-doc-is that gather at the ranis should himself
be entersr to weir a ltpitblr *»..*-> ; na non inferior
is every way to his sheep's own dotting is a proof
-met king that is IwiahoOer t: in-sanity. There
is ifagmkdsc is the whole business: and while it
nay be that the man is sore than Ms clothes and
independent of the make of his hat. it is also true
that environment has a I t influence on thought
and that the cloches wwa, front day to day are the
desut environment of the wearer. The person who
knows his dress is tsferk-r is in treater or less
degree a thinker of ■ferin tkng’x: and no cal—ity
could be greater thin that the Australian nation
s>:gl 1 think is terms of cotton.
Get it- g-ips with tie gttestion vsl it is seen to be
a fit bigger tiling thaw it l> • s it arse glance. The
worse hn* in AremEna polities is the importing
rvria that has retarded r ~:gross ii>l done its level
best t percent the Australian not km— getting a
tfeee>-t ;• b it making the thirns Australia wants.
Mfeat is she head ami heart and motive tower of
tie whole importing : dy ; Y :>i can tnsver in one
*wi—cotton! Without eoctoet in the market the
sh> d*iy —porter wwili never have f-xsad his Free-
tra-se yell worth while. Look at his scope and ware-
houses. What Jo they containi Cotton! Metal
*jajs~rae&res may bxtSk ansee sirgefy among cor
imports in cash rabies; bet tie head and front of •
ti. wrajxe «f rmitac is catam. Imports which arrive
her-; class: re* its wmJ hare the :-:ct:a thread miming
tbrwak them that gnn» yjy fc> the —putters souL
• - - - .-•-••
there is a rauace re got in the cotton is in ». h i rerun
rase ib.-e runs through tie web: and it is upon
tats afcne that the tug p icts ran. Stand a featured
of yvnsr worst Australians in a row—the men who
ggt i rich . tag ftvn AnstraSa ami dscarse the Und
tto.: srppi ss theta wish the nwres ?c luxury—and
t* rcietiealSy every use where ye® can't trace their
'-ad feeing j« kind mmnt.coH' :c -jefinary thievish
c-' toitsi- s root *: i irr* that :t h«w setae direct
tssyttom with coctml It is cotta that more than
' 'r - • - - - - - ■ -
sov eo meti-ies; it is the axkc crowd titit
streergs tie oftcy of wsgrcyti . it rs eoctcr that
lies at the roc cf hair the sir-si*ri incapacity thit
marks oar mrlrtreal ii In i wac-i cotton is a ccrse
revacise tt ;s tie cier -’strinienc :f cimwßorvtal aa T
ecwmar lytag. ami while ;t wurews t be worn
we can never be jatte tree front taa; arse.
TV's were ta Vastraia. *a i ~-;ugh estimate. in
IWs l' sheep ra each tersca in the Cammorwealth:
?et with 1? sheep* —tatjg VinmKtn grass to
cl* thi lint the ivecagf? Vtstraiust kht had not one
ti *wnc Ba e re mure am: wfeciesetne wool on his
ssrfi-o '*'* The s'cnarratteti -c sn-sa a lamentable
state ec ifa jrs wvuiti seent iidfestlh if we dai not
mow s- - echiag gc the nutee cotton has iiled in
as rrr. e i stvgy TKien ti;e list 'unman ts :: the
fWhl s»swn —Aw wfeah fed Seed
- c-- s x . - :r.-'i >• , : : iv; - :.te
■ ■ i.si ' .scan, ami ?~ee si., sry was
-•flv seu - :a; puioe /c the gki. khnaSer serf kw.
The ■dkfent tf Ac cwpAtptnr tt— mas that he got the
: est "-tnett in has cartntl fey nstytng ®>
ti> 'se *-ic rtf if' ->r iant the lowest rosdhte wage
whiea they ami theur iimtHes .-ouhi saberst CM
i basts u ww i e'cchcng tit s amotenc wrttisi still
have 'een -a high, s’ -■ver n was .icrjvhiced to
' ' to ssan* art. vi e a-c ng r'» ame a great
S'- - s -
so how V* they seep the scantard of
- - . •>. . c- • g : f-
t sp'rr-nn sett Then Tfenfe. Ituemsat and Faewry
Yrxs aao .>o ■*» 'anc > "o- >f nwviem oittks came
hMt tht sttnheti of feiwg —l In
hascraia k tyse Uvscov rhw.-r esfcewhete: feet in


spite of its rise the cotton remained. The people
had got used to it and no longer regarded it as
inferior; but the stuff they wore was not the cheap,
crude product of the great days of Capitalism. It
was altered and glorified out of all recognition. Ger-
man dyes and metallic lustres were applied to beautify
it. Here and there a stray thread of wool or silk
was introduced to alter its character. American
mills turned out a dangerous, inflammable material
entirely of cotton and called it flannelette to induce
people to discard the small amount of real flannel
that was still used. Linen was freely mixed with
cotton to produce goods which looked like the original
beautiful damask. The fine poplin, which was a mix-
ture of silk and wool, was imitated by a stuff woven
of polished cotton thread and described as mercerised
poplin. Because cotton was such a good liar the
people, as their standard of life rose, were still in-
duced to buy goods in which it formed the main
staple; and the importing person rubbed his hands
and offered his fine “merino,” which contained no
thread of wool, and his “lambswool,” which was
merely the same inferior stuff fluffed out to appear
soft and warm. There was money in the cotton lie,
and it rose and increased and multiplied and became
the great thing it now is.
* ■» * *
Australia has no use for the inferior article of
trade. Let our manufacturers seek to give us the
best, and the best only. It is right at the top that
there is room for Australian industrial effort; and
neither Government nor people should countenance
any attempts to produce shoddy wares in the Com-
monwealth. There is real economy, too—the sort of
economy that counts in war time—in having the
best. Besides, it is perfectly clear that in a country
of high wages only the best will pay to produce. If
the material in a dress costs five pounds and the
cheap foreigner will make it for tenpence-halfpenny,
the cost of the article in Australia may be
£5 Os. 10)d. plus the cost of carriage and the sel-
ler’s profit. Made in Australia, the workmanship
may cost 15s. 4d.; and the price to the buyer will be
£5 15s. 4d., plus the seller’s profit. But if the
material costs only 7 Id., the foreigner will ship it
ready-made for Is. 6d., while the same thing would
leave the Australian workroom at 15s. llld. In
other words, to use expensive Australian effort on
cheap materials is the worst of bad economy; and
if Australian work is to be kept in Australia and
not handed over to the cheap worker outside, Aus-
tralia must make up its mind to wear and use only
good stuff, even if it for a while has to get along
with less of it. Cotton stands as the type of all
that is cheap and evil in our whole system, and one
of the best things we can do towards achieving a
national spirit and purpose is to cast it out entirely
from our view and thought.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
And How Is Voluntaryism Feeling This
Morning?
All the figure-twisting and wrangling of
these last few weeks has had only one mean-
ing—Australia has not raised the number
of men it promised. The argument first of
ail was that compulsory service was unneces-
sary, as voluntaryism would meet all require-
ments. Then, when voluntaryism commenced
to sag at the knees, everyone was asked to
give it a chance to recover. Orators climbed
on lamp-posts and carts and platforms (N.
S. Wales politicians being first provided with
lunch money) and exhorted the populace to
flock to the colors. Pictorials shouted a
gaudy message from hoardings to the same
effect. Illuminated devices intimated to
every citizen that his King and country
wanted him. There was much excitement
and perspiration for a while; but as the
great voluntary principle that was going to
get better had by this time taken to crutches,
it was decided to encourage enlistment by
yells, howls, punches on the nose, boycotting,
jeers, firing out of jobs, derision and lan-
guage. This was called “the force of public
opinion,” which in a way was right enough.
It was the rough, disordered method of
asserting the general belief that a man able
to fight for his country should get out and
fight. Still it, too, was called voluntaryism
—and the end of it and of all the uproar
and dissipation of energy is here to have a
look at. Defence Minister Pearce now dis-
entangles himself from his figures and expla-
nations and sticks his head out of the win-
dow to announce that “there are large num-
bers of men in Australia fit for active ser-
vice, and they are wanted .” Well? How is
Pearce going to get them? The Bulletin
says Conscription—has said Conscription
for many years past. But if Pearce is
going to _ continue relying on the comatose
old invalid that was called Voluntaryism it
might assist matters if he withdrew his face
from the window and gave the patient some
more nourishment. There are in Australia
to-day thousands of men fit for military ser-
vice, working for the States and for the
Commonwealth, on jobs that are wholly
superfluous and scandalously extravagant at
a time like this, and would be wasteful even
in peace. There are regiments of others
similarly employed who could take the places
in essential industries of men of military
age. There are hundreds in the Defence
Department’s service doing things thfft men
beyond the fighting age could do as well or
better. . All these men should be fighting.
Money is being borrowed to keep thousands
ot them from helping their country. The
Public Services of Australia are bloated to
an extent that is monstrous. A nation
confronted with the task of maintaining an
army in the field is supporting an army of
hangers on. Will Pearce kick the under-
pinning from this monument of folly or go
about casually remarking that “men are
wanted”? .-■£
♦ : ■
The Beer that Wouldn’t.
On the cabled statements of the British
t haneellor of the Exchequer in connection
with his new Budget proposals, it doesn’t
lopk as if the flow of liquid refreshments had
been seriously retarded by all the efforts
made to keep Thomas Atkins away from
lr e . taps. Early closing is the rule in many
British manufacturing centres, no-shouting
rules have been set up, many pubs are out-
of-bounds to soldiers, and generally Bung
conducts his trade* under the weight of
heavy restrictions. The no-liquor advocate
has been chortling long and loud over these
reforms; yet when we come to look at the
hard, grim figures of the British Treasury a
slow wonder begins to fill our souls as to
what all the noise was about. The excise
revenue is nearly all drawn from beer,
spirits and liquor licenses; and the estimated
returns for 1915-10 were set down at
£54,850,000. On the information cabled
this week, however, they panned out better
than this, and reached a total of £61,210,000.
Now, with all the restrictive laws and regu-
lations in full force, and with several millions
of the best drinkers in Britain either at the
Front or living under the strongest restric-
tions, the Chancellor estimates that there
may be a slump of £5,000,000 for the coming
year. Here you have a bird’s-eye view of
the whole position. England, with all her
efforts at coercive reform, and with all her
absent sons at the Front, drinks only eleven
glasses of liquor where she drank twelve
before! This does not strike the casual
student of booze as anything sky-scraping in
the way of reform ; but it makes him wonder
sadly whether all the tremendous uproar
about six o’clock is worth while. It seems
perfectly clear-that if the war suddenly ends
during the current year, and the big expedi-
tionary armies return to England, a
single week of rejoicing, with the nation’s
liquor-consuming forces at full guzzle, will
more than wipe out McKenna’s expected
excise deficit. If liquor wants reforming
and you can’t do more than this by any
kind of tinkering with restriction, for
Heaven’s sake let us bring a bit of horse-
sense into the affair and make the aim of
our legislation good liquor drunk under
cleanest conditions, under a system of public
control that will bring the bulk of the profits
into the public Treasury. But insanity still
holds sway. While a wet canteen is the
thing obviously needed, the reformer offers
six o’clock closing; if sound sense demanded
an increased counter-lunch, some zealot
would probably rush in with a proposal to
paint the beer green.
Piling Up Debt; also Boxes on the
Wharves.
During eight months of the current and last
financial years this is how Australia has
been carrying on business: —
Imports.
1914-15. 1915-16.
Gold .. .. £233,943 £347,607
Goods . . .. 44,596,702 51,092,235
£44,830,645 £51,439,842
Exports.
Gold .. .. £877,863 £9,016,541
Goods . . . . 38,301,781 41,666,622
£39,179,644 £50,683,163
Which means that, in order to barely pay
for the goods it bought, Australia should in
these last eight months have exported an
additional £10,000,000 worth of merchan-
dise ; and even by exporting over nine million
pounds’ worth of precious gold, it was still
nearly a million short of paying for its
foreign imports. But Australia must
export far more than enough to pay for its
imports. It must also export enough
to pay its foreign interest bill. The
amount of this bill, public and pri-
vate, for the eight months is over
£11,000,000; so that actually, but for our
export of gold, we would have run into
foreign debt during these eight months to
the extent of over £21,000,000. But the
position is even worse than that, because
during this period, when we ought to have
been practising the most rigorous self-
restraint, we actually imported seven mil-
lions more of foreign goods than we did in
the corresponding two-thirds of the preceding
year. Incidentally there have lately been
loud cackling headlines in the newspapers
about the “buoyancy of the Federal revenue,”
and copious displays of figures showing that
the Customs had collected an additional
million and were still going strong. And
why shouldn’t the revenue be “buoyant,”
seeing that during eight months Austra-
lians decked themselves in an additional two
millions’ worth of foreign “apparel,” and
imported larger volumes of hats and caps,
and cement, fish, chemicals, earthenware,
manufactured metal, preserved milk, gin,
tobacco and sparkling wine—though, by the
way, they managed to do with fewer tools of
trade? The country is importing at double
the rate it did 10 years ago, it is raising
over £4,000,000 a year more revenue from
these imports, it is (apart from gold) export-
ing less than it did 10 years ago, and it is
getting rid of gold at a greater rate than
the metal is being produced, thus eating up
the reserves created in the past three or four
years. To call this sort of thing merely
alarming is to boggle with words. Yet so
far as The Bulletin is able to see, the Gov-
ernments are looking on with bland uncon-
cern. The prohibition of the export of gold
was a necessary step ; but if we import as
furiously and pay the balance against us
with lOU’s, we are only easing the situation
for the moment by making it infinitely more
difficult by and bye. With hundreds of
thousands of men withdrawn from produc-
tion and made a charge on the country no
immediate increase in Australian earnings
can be looked for. What can certainly be
counted on is that the burden of taxation on
the remainder wfill become increasingly
heavy, which is an argument for avoiding
further additions to the calamitous load
already contracted. But, instead of acting
thus sanely, what is being done now is to
pile up debt for purposes of war, which we
can’t help, while getting into more debt for
hats and cigars and pills, which we can help.
Meanwhile Hughes, instead of sticking to
his tremendously important job at home, lias
worn the lining out of his throat yelling in
John Bull’s ear a list of things he ought
to do before the war is over and telling him
that these vague things can only be evaded
at the price of serious embarrassment!
John Bull may have done foolish things:
but in his maddest capers John never rushed
so wildly down a steep place as Australia is
doing at this moment.
The Mclntosh Mission to America.
As throwing light upon the thoroughgoing
way in which the Government of N. S.
Wales does its work the following from the
report of the proceedings of the Royal Com-
mission on the Petrol Scandal is of interest:
A large number of documents were put in. Amongst
them was a report by Mr. Reed upon a report sub-
mitted by Mr. H. ’ D. Mclntosh upon inquiries
made by him in America on behalf of the Govern-
ment in connection with the petrol industry. Mr.
Mclntosh’s deductions were sharply criticised,
Reed stating that he was of opinion that they were
not worth the paper they were written upon.
Nobody doubts the ability of H. D.
Mclntosh as a provider of up-to-date
vaudeville, and as an importer of boxers he
once stood without a rival; so it seems
unkind of Reed to say that his views on
petrol are of no use. Over in America there
is quite a colony of N. S. Wales officials,
with Nielsen at their head, busily trying to
find out some such abstruse matter as the
amount of knowledge of dry farming the
United States has learned from Australia
and how it can be brought back to N. S.
Wales. None of these people could be
spared to inquire about mineral oil, and as
Mclntosh was going that way what was
more natural than that he should look into
the question? Some people, of course, hold
that Hugh Ward would have been a more
suitable person to send, and there are
those who say that Verbruggen would
have been the diplomatist to really get to
the bottom of the mystery. But the
Holman Ministry doesn’t make any mistake
about these things. If the inquiry had been
simply about cod-liver oil, possibly Les
Darcy would have been the right man to
send ; while if a monopoly of Boston beans
had been the thing contemplated, no one in
his senses could doubt the wisdom of asking
G. G. Wade to open the negotiations. But,
seeing that the business in hand was petrol,
Mclntosh was the obvious, wise and only
choice. Some of the notions that have
gained currency with regard to the value of
expert knowledge are philosophically
unsound. The expert is always full of
preconceived ideas which warp his judgment
and destroy the value of his evidence. Cer-
tainly, Darwin did write the “Origin of
Species,” and, although a recognised expert,
his work was of some value; but, as against
that fact, it must be remembered that
Citidley wrote “The Answer.” The
N.S.W. Government in its untiring zeal for
the public good is thoroughly aware of the
high value which complete lack of know-
ledge possesses in the field of practical
affairs; and when the finding of the Royal
Commission is known it may be discovered
that H. D. Mclntosh rendered quite as
valuable service to the State as Griffith,
Reed and Morgan all rolled into one.
♦ *
A Philosophy of Fine Feathers.
Refore death got the nasty habit of making
fine millinery his special target, the
gorgeousness of the British soldier was
regarded as part of his pay. The private
drew only a few pence a week by way of
salary; but, then, those splendid garments
he wore were supposed to give him such a
pull with the women that cash need not be
considered. Take it as a general thing,
nobody really does want cash except for his
women; and when a soldier’s uniform was
of such a nature that it brought the whole
female population sighing and languishing
around him, what could he possibly need
more except a few coppers to buy beer when
there was nobody handy to shout for him?
It was a well-established theory and nobody
thought of questioning it. Women went
gaily adorned out of pure vanity ; the soldier
wore his glittering harness merely as a lure
to the sweet creatures who brightened his
martial existence. Sheridan makes his
pretty Lauretta sigh : “La ! To think how
the sweet creatures sleep on the damp
ground and fight in lace ruffles and silk
stockings,” or words to that effect. The
whole theory of military magnificence was
an article of faith with our fathers, and held
a good grip until about 20 years ago. And
now it is blown as high as the doctrine of
Freetrade, or the belief that the earth was
fiat ! The plumes and scarlet and highly-
polished brassware wouldn’t work in war
because the man cased in them was too in-
variably dead as soon as the shooting began ;
and the soldier was put into plain, cheerless,
dirt-colored khaki. Did the light of the
female countenance immediately turn away
from the undecorated hero? Not a bit of
it! With a sigh and a sob and a chortle
and a general abandon betokening the flame
of highest enthusiasm, she threw herself into
those brown arms as she had never thrown
herself into the scarlet and brazen clasp in
all the days when the former theory held
sway. So it is shown that the woman loved
her hero for himself all the time, and that
she was meanly made the excuse for things
by male persons who wanted to swank and
swagger. Had we been women, we might
have known this all along. It is the male
savage who first puts on the shell necklace
and it is the rooster who curves a
glittering and altogether useless tail. The
hens of all breeds are generally as plain and
drab as a widowed washerwoman.
>
“S.T.S.”: I like to read an allegory of the
war into the Willard-Johnson fight as we
see it on the screen. Here is a big bully
who has long been going round saying that
he can whip all comers—and, to do him
justice, making good his word on any who
tried. Arid here is a large force coming
against him, powerful and plucky, but
untried. The Black makes the first attack,
but it is stopped. Then, for 19 rounds —
months if you read it that way—it runs on
as a willing go, both sides plucky and keen
and doing their utmost, and both confident
of winning, though there is nothing so far
to show with any certainty how the end will
go. In the 20th, and again in the 21st, the
Black surprises everybody by making a
terrific onslaught. We know now—wise
after the ev^nt —that he attacked although
he w r as weakening, attacked because he was
weakening. That final (or Verdun) flutter
having been blocked, the rest of the affair
is just a very tired old nigger being pushed
all over the place by a less tired opponent.
When he finally goes doW'n and stays down,
it hardly so much from what is done to
Ode to Things in General.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stand back and loose my collar at the
throat! My song begins to seethe. A
frenzy holds me while I glow and gloat.
Ho! Give me room to breathe! Bring me
a ha’rp with mighty cables strung—Uncen-
sored, free —The day’s news out to star and
planet flung My song shall be. Get ready,
ye who list to hear; Keep the wide path of
music clear Alike to friend and foe! It’s
up to me ! So —one —two —three —Cast off
and let her go!
(And the summer comes and the summer
goeo,
But where it gets to the good Lord knows!)
Awake! Awake ! Awake ! Get up ! Get
busy! The thrones and kingdoms shake,
The lands are dizzy; The testing time has
come —observe me shout it: What is Aus-
tralia going to do about it?
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
But where it gets to the good Lord knows!)
Blood bought at Anzac, young Australia’s
fame Rings down the noisy places of the
world. The war roars on —cold death
beneath hot flame —And wide-eyed courage
stalks, unscathed of shame, Amid the red
destruction hourly hurled From the black-
throated guns that know not rest. Pale,
but unbroken the grim nations stand Front-
ing the horror of the sea and land; And,
tempest tried, we wait .with ready hand The
deeps of earth’s last hell to plumb and test!
(And the summer comes and the summer
goeo,
And the thing’s arranged for, I suppose.)
But, hark! What noise is this? What
long and loud uproar Breaks on an ancient
shore Where cold rains, smarting, hiss And
large, full nostrils snore? Why do the people
thus rejoice? Some say it is Australia’s
voice—Torrents of language strong and
choice That sparkle, flame and fuse. Oh,
well w r e know that splendid sound That
rolls and breaks and bursts around The
smile of Billy Hughes !
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
Yes, and Araminta has small pink toes.)
Avaunt! This noise is nothing. Pass it
out! The dryest leaf on Sydney’s autumn
wind Will leave more trace of deeds achieved
behind. Oh, ask me not what it is all about.
Such things the red-topped parrot loves to
spout When airs are soft and bland And
small birds understand That ancient gum
trees tall and stout Clap with a tingling
hand. Let Billy with hot zeal enthuse The
kindling patriot soul of Hughes ; And leave
the tale at that.
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
And where it gets to the good Lord knows.)
Here let the tune go flat A little while.
Smooth out beneath your hat The smuggest
smile And let us sing Australia proud and
free, Ringed by the ancient sea—A continent
large, gentle, kind and meek That pays
the price of thirty strikes per week And
lets the wheels stand still in happy trusting
That wealth is made by idleness and rust-
ing, Or gathered somehow from a states-
man’s throat Who knows short sight can
breed the staunchest vote.
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
And liquor will paint the stoutest nose.)
A little mixed we are. Well, let us mix
it. The time is out of joint, and who can
fix it? Our soldiers at the Front will fight
and finish, While beef, bread, butter, cash
and hope diminish; Our Parliaments at
home may rend and shatter A nation’s
vision with their idle chatter; And over all
things at the last reviewing May stand the
bitter legend “Nothing Doing.”
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
While a people reaps what its statesman
sows.)
Now let us strike again a louder string.
The cowslip opens to the English spring;
Ivan at last begins his conquering tramp;
With Teuton gore the Western Front grows
damp; Turkey is . out; the Bulgars’ feet
grow cold ; The Austrian takes more stoush
than he can hold; And all the lands from
Cornwall to the slope Of Ural bustle with
a chortling hope To see the Kaiser dangle
in a rope.
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
And their case is worse than the Huns
suppose.)
Brave to the beat of happier drums, The
glowing front of victory comes. Statecraft
betakes itself to sums And twelve from two
leaves ten —Ten to be earned in other days
When hunger walks in withered bays And
empty crowds have only praise For food
and food-producing men. And if Australia,
feeling tired, Has not by that black day
expired, The soul within her may be fired
To grander purpose then. Yes, she may
stand erect and strong Singing a splendid
marching song And very proudly limp along
The dire, distressful way. In Anzac zeal
she may arise, A glorious purpose in her
eyes, And, striving for a nobler prize, Work
almost every day!
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
Though where and why the good Lord
knows.)
Hence that ironical strain! Cease to
sing like a cow! Australia is hearty again
With her hand on the plough ; Nor shall
her vision be vain If she gets to it now.
Up! There are things to be done! As ye
tackled the Turk And as ye would master
the Hun Arise and get work!
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
And the beans and potatoes are planted in
rows.)
This is the song of the days That before
us loom splendid ; Billjim is boss of his
ways While his form is upended! This is
the song of the deed —Be it goal of my
singing!—Work! For the times move with
speed And the swift hours are bringing
Out of the war-sunset red Strong truth with
a whip for the stinging, A crown for the
head !
(And the summer comes and the summer
goes,
And the years dance holes in their silken
hose.)
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMON WEALTH.


GAEUC WHISKY
(ME OLO SMUGGLES
w*
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
.. . in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Insurances effected for —
Fire, Personal, Accident, Hailstone, Live Stock,
Workmen’s Compensation, Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: Corner Pitt and King Streets, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
207, DISCOUNT OFF
TABLE PLATE
Our experiment of a couple of years ago of
taking the wholesale catalogue of the great Eng-
lish Manufacturers of Electro Silver and Solid
Silver Goods, and deducting 20 per cent., or 4s.
in the £, from their prices was of a revolutionary
character, and might have landed us in heavy
loss, but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so we are con-
tinuing the discount. It only gives us a bare
commission on many lines, but commissions count
—if numerous enough.
Specially plated on hard white metal,
Toaster 4 7 J°
Less 20 per cent, discount y /°
38/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES--CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
him at the moment by a not unmerciful
opponent, as from the cumulative effect of
what has been done to him in all the pre-
vious rounds. By the way, it is in the
26th that the end comes —say next
September.
♦ —-
The Huns and Their Ramparts of
Corpse.
There are two points on which there is no
dispute. These are (1) that the German
casualty lists are up near the three million
mark, and (2) that the German is still
pounding away at the French line before
Verdun. It is a pretty sure thing that the
most habitual pessimist at Potsdam never
reckoned on having a mess like that on hand
after 20 months of war. And there really
seems no reason why he should look for a
change ; for if William was unable to hack
his way to where he wanted to get when the
opposition was in a minority,,he has a poor
chance of doing it when his enemies are
more numerous and have found their punch.
Nevertheless, Verdun shows him still strong
to do and dare; and the fine weather has
come round again without any sign of his
having been appreciably weakened by either
too much punishment or too little food,
though with many indications that the
destruction of his commerce and the fearful
debt he is acquiring are forming a burden
he shudders to think about. Meanwhile
the German submarine is busier than ever;
the murdering high-sky raids on England
have become more numerous and rather
more futile.; there are marchings to and fro
in the vicinity of Salonika; things over
against Bagdad look somewhat more
cheerful, which is not saying much; and
the yarns that come to hand concerning Hol-
land look like variations of the yarns that
arrived about Greece. Of our own Billjim
there is an official rumor that he is still
getting three meals a day and asking for
more. Pending contradiction on the grounds
of military necessity this can be taken as
right. But that is the most we are per-
mitted to know about him. We can’t even
tell now from the casualty lists where he is
or what unit he belongs to. Happily the
lists are no longer slniddersome —not as they
were when the cheerfullest, grittiest growlers
in all the world were put to hold a position
which General Monro has just described as
having all the bad qualities and defects that
it is possible to jamb into so small a space.
If anything was wanted to show that the
N.S.W. Govt, is either quite mad or quite
bad there comes the decision to build the
mile-and-a-half Plattsburg-Wallsend race-
course tram-line. For 10 years the Wall-
send Jockey Club has been asking for this,
hut always there was something that the
Govt, thought more important to do with
the cash. Now, after 20 months of devas-
tating war, the Ma State’s Government
reckons the time is ripe to spend the money
—merely to give a lift to the man with the
bag and the punters who feed him.
From an old Tasmanian campaigner:—
At time of writing it seems a sure thing that
Whitsitt will be political king of Tasmania until
further orders. The surprising equality of parties
in the country is partly responsible for this, but the
inadequacy of the Hare-Clark electoral law as a
method of accurately measuring what little difference
there is between parties is the chief cause of the
calamity. At last elections (1913), excluding the
votes cast for Independent candidates, Labor polled
more than 5000 votes less than the Liberals. This
time, notwithstanding the absence at the Front of at
least 5000 Labor supporters, the democratic vote has
apparently caught and passed the Liberal vote. Yet
the Libs, oust the Labs, from office! Nothing but
the device known as the Uniform Quota and Party
List can ensure that a majority of electors shall
secure the majority of seats. The Earle Adminis-
tration introduced an amendment of the present
intricate and inadequate electoral law embodying
the Uniform Quota and Party List system, but the
Tories, aided and abetted by the calamitous Whit-
sitt, flung it out with great enthusiasm.
After all, the disastrous Wiiitsitt may per-
haps prove to be the necessity which is
the mother of invention. As he is in a position
to mercilessly scourge both political parties in turn
the need for inventing a weapon wherewith to
utterly squash him ought to induce the combined
intelligence of both political parties to get busy.
An Elective Ministry would do the trick if the
Legislative Council was non-existent; the only prac-
tical remedy at present visible is an Electoral Act
which will compel every politician to definitely
choose his regiment and keep step with it.
Jensen, Minister for the Navy, says that
under conscription the poor and middle-
classes would suffer. The poor and middle-
classes don’t deserve this insult from a
Labor Minister. Under the voluntary
system they have been doing quite as much
as the rich, and perhaps more; wherefore
compulsion would no more whip them than
it would the rich. The chances are that
it would whip them a good deal less.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Criterion “On Trial.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Palace Submarine Pictures
Garden .. The Dandies
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Tiie White City Various Shows
Wirths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Quaker Girl,” etc.
Royal “Twin Beds”
King’s “A Message from Mars”
Princess’s “Dick Whittington and His Cat.”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Auditorium The Ideals.
As this Christian journal goes to press
George Marlow’s Sliakspearian co. is making
ready at the Adelphi (Sydney) to live up to
the high reputation it earned in Melbourne.
Allan Wilkie is playing Hamlet, and the
opinion of The Bulletin’s southern critic —
“a first-class attraction” —goes until further
notice.
* * si! *
“So Long, Letty,” skips off at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Friday, and leaves a
great void in the life of the young officers of
the artillery training camp. It doesn’t matter
how soon the business of killing starts then.
“Mother Goose” waddles on the next (Satur-
day) evening; but Letty will have gone, and
there will be no comfort left in the world.
* sS Of jss
On Saturday evening, at Sydney Criterion,
Frank Harvey, Madge Fabian and Frank
Elliott, the last two imported from Drury
Lane, will appear in an American importa-
tion entitled “On Trial.”
* * * *
To-night Frederick Ward will present
“Hindle Wakes” at the Little Theatre
(Sydney). Some time ago Ward produced
this play for the Sydney Repertory Society,
and the high standard of the acting was, for
an amateur cast, remarkable. Playgoers
should therefore have every confidence in
expecting an adequate professional produc-
tion.
W. J. Shephard’s double picture-show at
Sydney Palace (Kinemacolor Second Edition
and Williamson Submarine) finishes reeling
on Friday night, so the eleventh-hour gazer
will have to hurry if he doesn’t want to miss
a good thing. Saturday sees the first Sydney
production of the J. & N. Tait importation,
“Peg o’ My Heart,” with Sara Allgood in
the title part.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS, AT SYDNEY
HIPPODROME.
Some of the Riogoku Family of Japanese
Acrobats.
Sydney Tivoli management will empty a
sackful of new artists into the bill this
coming week-end and make the show effer-
vesce a bit. Meanwhile Ella Caspers nas
been retained to keep a head on the pot of
entertainment. Keith Kennedy, a home-
grown violinist, earns a welcome without any
tricks, and Wolgast and Girlie are still
making sympathetic teeth ache with their
harrowing act.
* * * *
The roar heard outside Wirth’s big hippo-
drome in Sydney is not raised by the three
lions and a bear consuming their trainer, but
comes from the throats of a multi-
tude encouraging May Wirth, the star
rider, to turn another back-somersault.
Whereupon May obliges once or twice
more, and casting bridle and surcingle
from the animal urges it to a gallop
and then lightly leaps from midring
to its back. Then more roar issues from
amidst the palatial appointments and luxuri-
ous seats, and the Japanese tie themselves up
in a knot, and, ascending hand over hand to
the top of one another, suddenly fall to the
ground, each one spinning on the palm of an-
other’s hand. The somersaults and the
university seals and all the rest of it will be
there until further notice.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS, AT SYDNEY
HIPPODROME.
Clowns Alex, and George.
Sydney movies to be noted :
Tuiangle (Lyceum) : “Between Men,” one of Thos.
H. luce’s strong cinodramas. Programme at this house
now commences at 7.30 p.m.
Crystal Palace: “Britain Prepared,” the instruc-
tive series of official pictures showing what is wait-
ing for the Squareheads. Removed from Town Hall.
Other Picture Block Theatres: (Lyric) “Mr.
Lindon at Liberty” ; (Colonial) “Salamander”;
(Empress) “The Innocence of lluth.”
•!*
The biggest party ever known in Sydney
celebrated Manager Eslick’s* birthday at the
White City last week. If he had many more
happy returns of the kind his bank-account
would soon be as strong as the one the book-
makers keep for anti-tote purposes.
*Send stamped envelope to White City for details.
* * * *
Service will be conducted as usual all this
week at the Rev. Bianscombe’s Garden
Tabernacle, William-street, Sydney. The
Green Dandy choir in new ragtime hymns.
Text: “The stars in their courses.” —Judges
5-20.
* * * *
“A Message from Mars” was repeated
before a moderate congregation at Melbourne
King’s last Saturday night. Gregan
McMahon, who has made a specialty of
Horace Parker’s egoism, again submits to
the lessons in Otherdom delivered by the
haughty reformer from Mars. Gregan gives
a capital representation of the weakness of
human argument faced by the irresistible
logic of Force. The Martian who electri-
cally jolts him into a better frame of mind
obviously practises Prussian Frightfulness at
his expense. Geo. Bryant is cast as the
Messenger, and makes an imposing presence,
tempering his eletrieal violence with a voice
of almost churchy forbearance. Indeed, his
speeches have pulpit cadences and his com-
mands to be good have the manner of pray-
ers. Edmund Duggan, as the Tramp, nicely
depicts the dregs of inventive genius damaged
by penury and stained with beer. The care-
fully-controlled speech and close attention
to other details make the part Duggan’s
magnum opus in pathetic character delinea-
tion.
The role of Arthur Dicye, who is stricken
with sudden affection for Horace’s donah,
Minnie, is safely entrusted to Guy Hastings;
and Laura Roberts sparkles rarely in the
background as the faithful slavey, Bella.
Other members of the co. cannot be men-
tioned with much approval. Minnie Templer
is pictured by an amateurish Joy Gwyn, who
makes the fullest use of her melodious voice.
Whatever the circumstances, Joy always
tries to be musical. When she is pained
with her Horace she almost warbles her dis-
satisfaction. Miss Lilias Adeson appears as
Aunt Martha, and gets into such a habit of
loud, metallic remonstrance that even her
apology sounds proud and provocative. Miss
Bevan plays Mrs. Clarence as a hard, dowdy
dowager who hasn’t sufficient natural sweet-
ness to make her mistakes charming; and
over a dozen other people supply the’ local
color and noise for the various tableaux of
Parker’s conversion.
** * *
“Dick Whittington,” which arrived at the
Princess’s on Saturday, is offered to Mel-
bourne as an Easter egg full of meat of a
sort. A mob of incidental girls are well
dressed —uncommonly smartly dressed for a
popular-priced panto.—and 'the quality of
their limbs is most apparent where they are
least covered. In short, the legs of the
young dancing nymphs who wear only a
mixed bathing costume are an entertainment
in themselves. Some of the 10 changes of
scene are art-ful; several of the principals
are as bright as panto, principals ought to
be; and the vigilance of the limelight man
and the specialties of Montambo and Wells
and the McLean pair deserve to be men-
tioned in despatches. If Melbourne feels
ready for another meal of panto.—as seem-
ingly it does —the Marlow joint will appeal
to popular taste. The author of the “Whit-
tington” book is the only person concerned
who might have done much better. Il e
handled the old yarn clumsily, and in pulling
it out of shape has pulled it almost out of
sense. A few shreds of familiar plot are
noticeable, but these are so confused with
fustian gags or inferior dialogue that they
don’t count. Perhaps the limitations of
Marlow’s Cat were partly accountable for
this loss of Whittingtonian significance in
the proceedings. Marlow’s Cat is an utterly
unconvincing animal who seems unlikely to
ever catch anything except the ’flu.
Carrie Moore and Dan Thomas are the
most frequent and forcible members. As far
as there is any name part to play Carrie
plays it, and her natural vivacity goes for
as much of her melodious, mouthy singing
of sentimental ragtime ditties, with or with-
out the support of a capable male quartet.
Dan Thomas, as an unaccountable shemale
named Mary Ann, skips joyfully through the
passing show in an engaging manner, his
mate in agility being Billy Watson, who
incidentally marries Mary Ann, and is dis-
tinctly humorous when he meets her again
on a foreign shore under the impression that
lie is a widower in quest of a new freak.
Burgess and Stanley are a quaintly con-
trasted pair of sailors who plough the
painted sea ; Eileen Redmond is the heroine
in disguise ; and there are many others. One
of the many is a lady who must have got
measured for a harlequin’s outfit before she
took up her position as fairy queen.
** * *
These are the last nights of the Royal
Comics at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). “The
Arcadians” is accounting for six of them —
six of the best. The co. breaks no records
in “The Arcadians,” hut it does vei'y well.
Ethel Cadman, although her warble is some-
what stringy of late, sounds sufficiently
charming in the part of Sombra, to which
her earnest gaze and sedate style are well
suited. Alice Bennetts makes an aesthetic
Chrysea, and Maggie Moore is a passable
Mrs. Smith if we assume that Phil Sim-
plicitas Smith, who looks youthful even in
his whiskers, married far beyond his years,
so to speak. Minnie Love, as Miss Cava-
nagh, the adored of Roberts, sheds sweet-
ness and light on everything she touches.
Moreover, Leslie Holland is an unexpected
success as Peter Doody. His leanness har-
monises with his alleged compulsory fasting,
and his depression of spirits is cadaverous
to the last degree. Next Saturday they
start a series of five one-night I'evivals, with
“The Quaker Girl” in the lead.
* Hs * 9fs
The third week of the Pyjama Play dt
Melbourne Royal finds it still going strong,
or a bit strong. If the name of the firm that
supplied the Twin Bedding used in this pro-
duction is not starred on the programme the
omission ought to be rectified. All the
commercial possibilities of the latest Ameri-
can comedy turn upon the fact that bedding
stai'es the audience in the face. Twin sofas
could serve as beds for mere sleeping pur-
poses, bxxt to carry out the author’s idea two-
full equipments of bedding were necessary.
Pyjamas and nighties need sheets and pil-
lows to make them thoroughly effective, and
in an advertising age the name of the shop
the things came from should not be left to
blush unseen.
* * *
Two new turns at Melbourne Tivoli last
Saturday offer little compensation for the
ravages of time in the Follies’ section of
the show. Mildred Grover, who has a use-
ful pianist behind her, sings and patters
unexcitingly. Her best effort is an imita-
tion of an American singer of coon songs,
and to such as squirm under the infliction of
xagtime nigger balladry an imitation of a
coon song is rather like a kick on a sore
shin. The other turn is an extravagantly


pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
i \ \ <3
DT
Swift & Company jLttl., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
WATERPROOF MILITARY COSSACKS
For Service or Station Wear.
The rope-stitched double solos, the water-
tight tongues, and the smooth-finished leather
linings of these regulation Tan Military Boots
keep the feet dry and comfortable in the
wettest weather. It is an easy-fitting shape,
equally adapted for marching, service-work or
station wear during Winter. Finished in the
typical Peapes’ style—a Superior Boot.
25/-
We Pay Postage. Please state size
New Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ornate, yet tasteful, display of costumes and
hats by Pearl and Irene Sans. The ladies
are much less young and beauteous than
the garments they put on and take off during
their novel show. Incidentally they are sen-
timental duettists, with Murkan accents, and
the gem of their repertoire is “Put Me in My
Little Bed.” This awful ballad reeks with
the bathos of a bygone age. It must be
considerably older than either Pearl or
Irene. Every white-haired citizen should go
to hear it for the sake of Auld Lang Syne.
It is the song of the innocent cheeild to her
loving elder sister. “Put Me in My Lit-tle
Bed!” But why not bring it up to date by
arrangement with J.C.W. Ltd.? llow about
putting her in her wee Twin Bed?
Fred Villiers, the veteran war-correspond-
ent who visits battle districts with sketch-
book in hand, is due in Melbourne in Easter,
and will lecture at the Athenaeum Hall.
Carlyle Smythe hath said it.
* * * *
Bellora, who mimics the noises of the oof-
bird and the bunyip in a manner to make the
originals envious, is spending a few nights
at Melbourne Bijou. Monahan and Sheehan,
instrumental artists, have also been added
and show their calibre in a turn of fair
average quality. The rest of the entertain-
ment is mostly musical or songandancy, and
is only effusively acrobatic when the
abbreviated Decar leaps into view. Decar
is the most hurried circumstance among the
present Bijou contingent, and is a welcome
contrast to two or three others who seem
about as gradual in coming on as they are
reluctant to go off.
¥ * * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
To enter Mrs. Gwen Barringer’s one-woman picture-
show at the Society of Arts is to suppose one has
wandered by mistake into a Hans Hevsen exhibition.
The same fidelity to gum-tree trunks is apparent, and
the style of treating them is remarkably similar.
The lady, however, is less reliable. Sometimes her
wood has the unsubstantial look of a monster mush-
room. But at her best she is really good. She has
two other favorite subjects: masses of blossom in a
garden—very popular these are —and buildings seen
through rain or mist, the last-named possibly the
best of the lot. But, broadly speaking, this may be
described in geographical terms as a small exhibition
entirely surrounded by eucalyptus. The red seal of
approval is being freely attached to the less expen-
sive canvases.
“DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT,"
AT MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Dan Thomas as
Mary Ann.
Billy Watson as an
actor.
At Adelaide Tivoli, Gerald Griffin is prov-
ing handsomely that Allen Doone (who, by
the way, was playing in Honolulu at latest
news) is not the only shamrock on
the green, begorra. Ethel Buckley
plays up to him well, and his pleasant
voice helps over , any thin places in
the Irish plays he dances on. The King's
bill is much enlivened by the balancing Eden-
bury, the Testros and Billy Wells (with
Twins). There are strong war-pictures _at
the Pav. and Wondergraph, the latter having
the A. Bartlett Dardanelles films, and doing
big business accordingly. The Williamsonian
picture-season at the Iloyal specialises in
the “intense” and Continental school, Theda
Bara being again the star. The Ideals have
ended their outdoor season at Austral Gar-
dens. They are a jolly crowd, but not start-
ling, except for the music of Dennett and
Ivanoff. For the end of their time they
wisely called in Malini, the sleight-of-hand
man, who gets his effects just as happily
when surrounded by a crowd of investigators
as when he has the stage to himself.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Baritone Peter Dawson, having finished
his season at the Tivoli, leaves this month
for London. After putting his affairs in
order he intends offering himself for active
service.
Mentioned in despatches for distinguished
services in the field, Lieutenant R. Ken-
nerley Rumford —Clara Butt’s tuneful hus-
band.
Melbourne singers have just been to Bede
Walsh’s funeral. Before his Melbourne days
Walsh was favorably known in Sydney as a
very capable singer with a powerful bass
voice. In his youth he had good commercial
prospects, but was induced to join Lyster’s
opera co. as chorister, with occasionally a
chance in minor parts. By and bye lie
became accountant to James Moore, who
owned the largest timber-yard in Victoria,
and he was there until his death. Of late
years he was yice-president of the Lieder-
tafel.
Cecily Courtneidge was married the other
week to one Jack Hulbert, who plays
“johnnie” parts in her dad’s musical comedy
co. The pretty girl was born in Australia
when mother and father were members of
Musgrove’s Gaiety Burlesque Co. —the one
that “Teddy” Lonnen came out with. They
had been married just before the co. left
London. Some 10 or 12 years later, when
Courtneidge returned to Australia to stage
Musgrove’s Shakspearian shows, he brought
his wife and daughter with him for the trip,
and the little girl got her first experience
of the footlights as Fairy Peaseblossom in
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” But she
was several years older before she was
allowed to bloom as an actress at her
father’s theatre in London. She is of the
slim and willowy order, “sweet” and charm-
ing, has a nice voice, dances beautifully, and
has brains.
“Eardley Turner”: Re Olga Nethersole
and “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray” (B.
6/4/T6). In 1892 I was playing at the
Adelphi, Strand, in “The Lights of Home,”
by Geo. R. Sims and Robert Buchanan.
Mrs. Patrick Campbell was leading lady, had
been leading lady for some considerable
time, playing the heroines in other Sims and
Buchanan dramas —“The Trumpet Call,”
“The White Rose,” etc. A couple of months
before “The Lights of Home” was taken off
Mrs. Campbell went out of the cast, and,
although we of the co. didn’t know it, she
was being rehearsed by Pinero for his Tan-
queray lady, in which character she next
appeared, with what result the theatrical
world knows. Whether Pinero wrote the
part for Mrs. Pat is hard to determine, but
if he didn’t he ought to have done so. The
actress was the exact type. Olga Nethersole
would have been heavier, gloomier (or more
“soulful,” if you like), and not so impres-
sive as de-pressive. Mrs. Pat, always indulg-
ing a keen sense of humor, showed herself at
all times the more volatile and varied actress.
One cannot imagine Olga as Eliza Doo-
little, for instance. Whoever he wrote
Mrs. Tanqueray for, Pinero’s luck was in
when he selected the incomparable Mrs. Pat
to “create” it.
“Patricia B.”: Deceased, Billy Duck-
worth, one of Australia’s best acrobats and
a star with the Fitzgerald Bros. In his
palmy days Duckworth was absolutely fear-
less, and took risks that no other performer,
bar “Dummy” Morris, would think of. As
a ground and lofty tumbler he was equal to
any acrobat that ever came oversea. His
death, in Melbourne General Hospital, was
the result of a tumor on the brain. He was
young at 40.
Getting away from the old order of things
whereby the Australian artist goes out of
his native country to study and doesn’t re-
gard himself as worth tuppence until he has
soaked in much foreign culture, violinist
Ettie Marks, of Melbourne, is preparing a
descent on Europe as a finished fiddler. The,
dash for fame is to commence as soon as
the roar of the big guns dies down and it is
safe to take one’s fiddle on a sea-trip. After
being something of an infant-prodigy for a
time, Miss Marks spent several years at the
Uni. Conservatorium, where the white-
haired Henry Curtis helped her out of her
prodigyhood. Thence she went to Marshall
Hall for another three years. Her education
also includes long sittings at the feet of
George Weston as a private pupil; and in
the opinion of Melbourne critics whose
encouragement is worth having, Ettie
Marks’s art will be enough to gain her recog-
nition in the right European circles when
she starts whirling therein.
“Stargazer”: “Robbery Under Arms”
reappears in Melbourne, and for the last
time on any stage, I should say. The fact
is a drama like this is hopelesssly outed for
stage purposes by the screen. There is noth-
ing in the story that the pictures cannot
tell, and nine-tenths of What there is to tell
is told much more emphatically and drama-
tically by the machine than by man-power,
the machine having the entire sweep of Aus-
tralia’s natural scenic effects at its com-
mand. It is hardly probable that the bush-
ranger will ever again be content to range
the boards now that the moving pictures
have opened up mountain, river- and plain to
him. Your bushranger is an operative who
requires plenty of elbow-room.
“Globe”: Who has anything to say
against the Australian-made photo film?
When buying some in Sydney a few months
ago, I was told that the Australian film
would not travel through the tropics. But
I got some, had good results with them on the
voyage to Egypt, and later during the long
sweltering run to Colombo. There, the
supply being nearly exhausted, I got more —-
English this time, and “specially made for
the tropics.” The results from the few
remaining Australian reels, even after their
long trip, were much better than the results
from the special English stuff.
“Seven Bells”: Killed in action in France,
Lieut. Eric Balderson, a versatile Austra-
lian, aged 27. The boy (his mother was
Mrs. F. R. Balderson, one of the first women
dentists in Victoria) manifested early a taste
for Indian ink, received art tuition from
Charlie Nuttall when the latter was in
America, and made a punch in England,
where his mother now resides, as a black-
and-white artist. Returning to his native
land a few years ago, he appeared as a
lightning artist at the Tivoli, and extended
his tour to S’Africa with pleasure to many
and profit to himself. Then he returned to
England, where the sword called louder than
the pen, and he enlisted in the Field Artil-
lery. He was put out of action for ever on
March 26. He and his partner at the time
of George’s coronation at Westminster
designed the special medal for the occasion.
So exclusive was it that even his mother was
not permitted to have a replica, the die being
destroyed after the requisite number had
been struck.
“Copy Boy”: As it is obviously up to
someone to do it, I rise to mention to the
Tivoli “Follies” that gags and business con-
cerned with sexual perverts are a form of
alleged humor that wins dashed little appre-
ciation from a large number of show-fre-
quenters who are not even related to a
wowser by marriage. If those responsible
could hear as many forcible opinions of
their misguided efforts as I have they would
probably conclude that the game is not
worth the scandal.
From an Australian artist in London: —
Somerset Maugham's juicy comedy, “Caroline,” is
the success of the season. It has been very cun-
ningly produced by Australia’s old friend Dot Bouci-
cault, whose wife, Irene Vanbrugh, is playing the
title role. Lillah McCarthy is another Australian
favorite who materially assists Maugham in deliver-
ing the goods. Boucicault is the identical Dot I
faintly remember at Melbourne Bijou sometime b.c.
He is still the best comedian at his weight on
earth, and is the finest producer here, as he was there
when they summed-up the Brough and Boucicault co.
(then 11 in number) as “Dot and carry 10.”
In London Oscar Asche has dropped his
Zulu melodrama for a revival of the Shrew ;
Caleb Porter and Tripp Edgar are still
with him. Matheson Lang wanted to play
the same thing at the same time, but gave
way and is doing “Mr. Wu” instead.
The advent of Harry Lauder as a singing
comedian in plays of his own manufacture
is one of the possibilities of the early future.
In Amurka lately the Scot staged his first-
born, a three-act domestic comedy advertised
as “The Night Before,” and scored much
siller and success.
(Continued on page J/9.)
“Hamer”: The first award that clerical
workers have got from the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court is discouraging. The case
of the temporary quills in the various Com-
monwealth departments was tried on the
horsehair dog, and he barked out “ten
bob a day,” which is a poor thing
beside the 11s. of the temporary clerks
in Ma’s public service. Justice Power,
in giving the award, talked about the
need for practising economy. Rob
Crachit on three pounds a week doesn’t need
to practise economy. He’s got to be a past-
master at it from the word “Go!”
Anyhow, of the two Billies, Hughes seems
like getting to Paris first.
A gracious party of N. S. Wales political
entertainers, headed by Lord Mayor Meagher,
journeyed out to Daceyville last Saturday,
and read fairy tales to the wondering
children. The kiddies will have to spell out
the report of the Petrol Commission for
themselves.
Argument used in N.S.W. Assembly to
support the scheme of resumptions embodied
in the State Bakeries Bill
Tlie measure will relieve citizens from the un-
pleasantness of complaining to the family baker if
his bread is not up to sample, and will give them
an opportunity of consulting the member for the
district, who can bring the matter up on the floor
of the House and ventilate all questions relating to
different varieties of bread.
And the Ma State’s handful of debt-ridden
people pay 90 members £5OO a year to dis-
cuss whether Mrs. Bliggins was served
with a sour loaf yesterday morning!
Occasionally the poor old public is allowed
to see the cashbox with the lid off. The
N. S. Wales Auditor-General the other day
set to work to find out how things stood
with the new State fish enterprise; where-
upon a loss of about £7OOO and the exist-
ence of an archaic system of account-
keeping were revealed. According to Syd-
nev Telegraph, Holman attributes the leak
to, in part, “loss of time on the boast.”
That nasty one was no doubt intended for
George Black, the Minister in charge.
Joe Cook is being loudly applauded by the
Liberal press for his seamanlike refusal to
take off his oilskins and leave the ship of
state hove-to while he goes to London as
the guest of the Empire Parliamentary Asso-
ciation. The devotion to duty reminds one
of an indignant star-actor urged to go on
while the audience is still howling and
stamping for an encore by his hated rival.
You don’t catch Joseph showing in London
so soon after the unprecedented Hughes
tour!
Passed out, John Norton, managing-
editor and owner of Truth —freak, big man.
small man, philanthropist, scoundrel. Nobody
could write John Norton’s history—not even
John Norton. In his time he was one of
the few orators the N. S. Wales Assembly
has known ; he was a writer with a powerful
punch; he was a muck-rake journalist for
the money that the muck-rake brings; he
was an editor who prostituted his paper,
and he was a proprietor whom money could
not buy when the matter had made the right
appeal to his boiling mind. He was the per-
sonification of heredity’s problem.
S. Aus., being remarkably short of King’s
Counsel through death, promotion and retire-
ment, has appointed two more. Isbister
is the quiet, family-lawyer type, with an
Adelaide University and Inner Temple train-
ing, a solid man, but not much known to
the public. Parsons is the opposite sort.
Related to the wealthy Angas clan, married
to Advertiser Bonython’s daughter, and a
partner of Patrick Glynn, he is always in
the public eye. He had one term in Par-
liament, and was Attorney-General in the
Peake Ministry, but lost his seat last year.
He has taken silk 19 years after being
admitted to the Bar, a record said to have
been beaten locally by nobody but the late
Chief Justice Way. Incidentally he is
president of the Automobile Association,
Consul for Japan, and a ready, witty speaker.
Isbister has been appointed in his absence;
he is away in Egypt, at his own expense,
helping to get the Red Cross tangle sorted
out.
OUR PICTURE SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Day follows day, dream chases dream,
Time’s film slips back across the reel;
In rain a blurr, in sun a gleam,
War’s moving pictures swiftly steal.
Gold dust that marks the column’s way;
Far out, like scouts on skylines clear,
The dark, hushed camps at close of day
When distant things creep in so near.
Dark desert wells, the frantic crush
Of thirst-mad horses, shaded light,
Dense horse-packed laagers, aral the rush
Of armored cars across the night.
Captives in white that stalk beside
Their weary flocks, with poise like kings ;
Women and girls all sullen-eyed ;
Long amber beads, dull silver rings.
The desert babes that smile and croon
Beside the tiny campfire's glow,
Where, bright steel flashing to the moon,
The tall Sikh guards pace to and fro.
High ’planes, like amber dragon-flies,
With red-ringed eyes, that slowly swing,
Stoop like a falcon, whir and rise,
A ribboned message earthward fling.
Clear in the sun, blurred in the rain,
War’s pictures slip across the screen ;
Below the trenches on the plain
A white cross gleams against the green.
WESTERN FRONTIER (EGYPT).
JACK SOMMERS.
THE DEAD ARTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J- Hilder, artist, died at Inglewood, Sydney, on
Monday.
Goes the artist to his rest,
Leaving hill and sky and sea.
Look upon his peerless best,
Each a singing memory.
Dead ? Ah > n0 > - you cannot die
Till your well-loved work grows faint !
Strange to think gold once could buy
Lover’s daydreams done in paint,
n.s.w.
K.


4
THE “ZAMBRENE”
rainproof overcoat.
FROM 75/-
Ihe world-famous “Zambrene” is without doubt the finest
lXubberless Rainproof Coat obtainable; i§ porous, very light,
yet guaranteed thoroughly protective. Cut in the latest
loose style, and with long vent at back. There is absolute
freedom of movement, making it at once an exceptionally
comfortable coat for golf, shooting, fishing and all sports;
at the same time it is very smart and useful for City wear.
We are sole Agents in N.S.W., and hold a most extensive
assortment.
PRICES £3/15/- to £5/5/-.
We Pay Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opposite G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
ion i ’vh
de tfrfcx/rt
surely do bar the door to
your own pleasures
unless you use
“LUXURIA.”
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A Lutheran pastor missed his chance in a
S. Aus. mallee-country court the other day.
The charge against him was that lie had
collided with section 63, subsection 12, of
the Police Act. It was a woman who told
the tale for the prosecution. While she was
saying her prayers she heard a noise on the
verandah outside her bedroom window. Pre-
sumably after asking to be excused for a
minute she ran to the blind, pulled it up
and disclosed—the pastor! She had just
been at church, too —without her husband ■
he was away for the night. The pastor said
at the time it wasn’t true, and he hadn’t
been outside his own door; but in the court
his counsel declined to go into evidence, and
merely claimed that if it all was true there
was no offence. The obvious thing, of
course, was to plead that whether the lady
wore or was of no concern in the
world to the simple-minded pastor, and that
all the good man wanted to know was
whether she got down on her knees and
wrestled with the Evil or merely blew but
the light and dropped into bed. By allowing
the carnal-minded bench to think that he
was interested in other things besides his
flock s immortal soul, the newest brand of
German spy gave the J.P.’s a chance to tell
him that he was fined fl and costs.
“Litera Scripta”: God, the King, “His
Excellency the Right Honorable Sir Ronald
Craufurd Munro Ferguson, a Member of His
Majesty’s Most Honorable Privy Council,
Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distin-
guished Order of Saint Michael and Saint
George, Governor-General and Commander-
in-Chief of the Commonwealth of Australia,”
and E. J. Russell, for the Minister of State
for Home Affairs —not to speak of the junior
clerk who actuallly did the work —were ail
invoked to the extent of half a column in
the Commonwealth Gazette of 6/4/T6 to
do—-what? Proclaim conscription? Don’t
be silly. To change from “e” to “a” the
fifth letter in the name of the N. S. Wales
electoral subdivision of Tumberumba. This
world-shaking reform was not made without
the advice of the Federal Executive Council,
and was “given under my Hand [R. C. M.
Ferguson’s] and the Seal of the Common-
wealth.” The only thing lacking was a final
verse by C. J. Dennis, the “Sentimental
Bloke,” who is, or was, E. J. Russell’s con-
fidential secretary.
* * * *
An agitation for woman justices and
petticoated police has started in Perth.
Nearly every female society is backing it
up, and politicians are being buttonholed
daily for support. The Government will
most likely appoint the J.P.’s, but police
with skirts on are favored neither by the
Commissioner nor the Minister. Still, it’s
mostly a matter of a name, and “inspec-
tresses” to keep the good girls good and the
bad ones from going to soldiers’ camps are
highly probable developments of the next
few months.
“Hamer” : Some months ago the N.S.W.
Public Service Association decided to put its
starched collar in its pocket and become a
Trades Union; but when application was
made for registration under the Arbitration
Act it found itself opposed by a score or so
of unions which had enrolled people who
might have been members of the Ass. if that
gradual organisation hadn’t taken so long to
screw up its courage. However, in spite of
the disagreeable surprise, the P.S.A. is still
hopeful and willing. The other day it
argued with itself about affiliating with the
Sydney Labor Council; and the conservative
section only prevented the carrying of a
resolution in favor of the affiliation by con-
tending that public servants could not iden-
tify themselves with any political body. The
objectors could hardly be expected to know
that the Labor Council is not political, but
industrial, and that associations which
affiliate do not thereby attach themselves to
any political faith; but the mere fact that
they have discussed the position shows an
advance in their education. Some day the
proud old Association may astonish itself by
actually deciding upon the affiliation—unless
it reaches its deathbed before it brings itself
to take the only medicine that can save it.
ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN.
“What’s that? You break a bottle of beer
over the patrol corporal’s head, and
have the audacity to stand there and tell
me it was an accident?”
“Fair dinkum, boss! I didn’t mean to break
it.”
WHEN DARKNESS COVERS THE EARTH.
HENHOUND DAN (justly enraged): “I arsk you, friends, in regard to this shameful an ’
degraded act of closin’ the pubs at six o’clock —I arsk you, ’ow is the pore stranger
in our city goin’ ter find ’is way about the streets at night?”
“Haka”: The military armlets issued by
the Maoriland Government are now being
worn. Blue, for men required at home, in-
dicates no go; French grey, can’t go;
khaki, ready to go ; and red, had a go.
Once more Victoria has been discussing
the relative value of cane and strap in the
schools. Really it was settled long ago—
For forms of government let fools contest:
That which is best administered is best.
“Globe”: The way the various European
cities send their wireless news at night is
interesting. About 10
p.m. Malta sends his
traffic to Whitehall.
When he is finished,
not a second before,
Norddeich, the high-
power German station,
with his squeaky note,
furnishes information
about the latest hymn
of hate. When' he
finishes, Poldhu, the
big English station in
Cornwall, transmits to
all British ships whose
owners subscribe to
their ocean service,
and at 11.50 p.m. he
stops to allow Eiffel
Tower to send his
time-signals and news,
which takes about 30
minutes, then Poldhu
finishes. Each show
works in its national
language and there is
never any clashing.
One copies the other’s
stuff. Never is a re-
mark made from one
to another, and it
is curious to think of
these men, seated in
their cabins, and their
countries at war with
each other, waiting
and listening for their
enemy to radiate his
magnetic field with the
tell-tale dots and
dashes —or as much of
thinks is good for the
them as the Censor
other fellow to listen to.
* * * *
At smoke-oh, ’ on a 10-mile route march
across the Desert, with full packs up and 200
rounds of ammunition aboard, Billjim up and
spoke his mind :. This is no good to me. I
enlisted as a soldier, not as a Christmas
Tree.”
“Mimosa”: Like a flash Memory called
up an old Bulletin controversy during the
hottest moment of a clattering action on
Gallipoli. During one of the last charges
on the Peninsula, in which the Argyll and
Southland Highlanders were engaged, one
of them became hopelessly imprisoned in a
Turkish barbwire entanglement, to which,
when his struggles ended, lie was pinned bv
the seat of liis kilt. Had he been wearing
trousers his identification disc would have
been collected for a certainty. But with
a quick wrench he pulled out the two
safety-pins which alone held the skirt in
place around his body and rushed on bare-
legged in the direction of Constantinople. If
it had happened to the wdiole regiment we
would have bivouacked in the ancient capital
next day.
* * *
A bright young Melbourne man in the
Army Medical Corps, himself as temperate
as a thermometer at point 56, throws some
light on the liquor and other questions that
concern Billjim in Egypt:—-
After three months in Egypt we begin to get
blase. Kangaroo Bill has nothing but Time to kill,
so his thoughts turn to beer. But his chances of
obtaining reputable drink are sadly limited. First
they closed Shepheard’s to all but otficahs. Why we
don’t know, for no one ever got a chance of kicking
up a row there. A poor private felt fearfully uncom-
fortable going in there at any time, to be followed
about by “Tommy” pickets, who waited while you
swallowed your drink, and then trudged after you
until you left. Then came the order that the
Continental was reserved for offleahs; likewise the
fine grill room next door, which is guarded by troops
day and night. Then they keep the National for
offleahs only. Thus the only safe places for a drink
are closed to the majority, and Kangaroo Bill is
driven into the places of Cairo where the ordeal of
having a meal or a glass is akin to visiting a drunken
brothel. We all love Kangaroo Bill. He’s rough and
annoys you somewhat, but his air of getting about
is good to see. You get this feeling more and
more as you see other ranks saluting an officer who
is 50 yards away. It’s “good form,” but it hasn't
proved specially effective in the fighting line yet.
Bill had a bellyfull of “disciplined troops’ ” way of
doing tilings in Gallipoli. Mostly the smaller the
man the more the frill he insists upon. The boss here
makes the patients stand to attention when he enters
the ward. But the General last week hopped in,
and when the lads rose by their beds he hastily
said: “Sit down, boys; I don’t want you to stand
up.” Personally our little bunch, though officers, felt
the closing of Shepheard’s like a punch on the nose.
By the Way a par. (B. G/l/’l6) complains of
scarcity of Red Cross stuff. As far as this hospital
knows, there’s tons of it; also cigarettes and other
extras a man needs. The only complaint is that
it is handed out like a personal gift, and sick men
don’t like that at all. The appointment of honorary
commissioners here looked all right, but it is a bad
mistake.
SOCKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The British force came within gunfire of the
Senussi about half-past nine. Some of the South
Africans felt the strain of the march, particularly
as most of them were originally cavalry. During
the final advance their footsoreness became so serious
that some hundred Springboks were sent back as
unfit to march further. But when the first gun
boomed they halted undecided. Then the wind
wafted down their battalion’s weird war-cry on its
wings. Catching up the echo they ‘about-turned’
with a roar, and, boots carried in their hands, they
struggled back to the opening fray, and saw it
through to a finish.” —Letter from Mersa Matruh, the
edge of the Desert.
Yes, we were the Springboks, the “Chronic Ikonas,”
We used to be known as “M. 1.” ;
’Twas a whale of a job, but we couldn’t be Jonahs,
And give the whole push the go-by ;
We trekked it on foot as a branch of the forces,
Not wholly at home on the sand;
The blighted brass-hatter that collared our horses
Was not given into our hand,
Because
His neck was in urgent demand—
It was!
We would have found scragging him grand
We foot-slogged along o’er the sand’s rolling billows,
Goose-stepping like ganders in Hell,
Till our boots were red-hot, and our feet were like
pillows,
And even a rookie could tell
That we were Light Horsemen, not infantry swaddies
Who “had a good home, and they left” ;
We yearned for the saddles to bear up our bodies
Of horses and stirrups bereft,
You bet
That blighted brass-hatter was deft
To get
Away ere we found out the theft!
We found it no use and we had to give over,
We hadn’t the right sort of feet;
But, fagged as we were, you should see us recover
When somebody murmured “Retreat” !
When boomed the first gun, and we heard the
battalion
Dash into the thick of the stew,
The colonel ahead on his favorite stallion—
You bet that we knew what to do !
My oath !
And, though they were sticking like glue,
(Yes, both) •
We took off our boots and came through.
They christened us “Socks” and they offered us
garters,
But we had to hustle to be
Well in at the finish, for we were late starters,
Our pace was a caution to see!
Twas “Imslp!” and “Voetsak!” and “Look at our
Lucy,
Her tootsies -are well to the front!”
And how we gave “socks” to the wily Senussi
When once we developed our punt,
What ho !
Our drop-kicks made Ibrahim grunt,
And so
We’ll get at least one D.S.O.
On the strength of our open-work stunt.
VICTORIA.
LISLE THREAD.


—the fine
value of
The “DUNCLIFFE”
'pHE next Felt Hat you buy
may be in every way worthy
and quite good from the view-
point of style and appropriate-
ness. But the point is this: —
We do not believe it is possible for you to get quite
such good value for the price in any other Hat but the
“BUNCL.IFI'E.” Its brim is unbound —may be worn
anyway. Send for a Hat on approval. It may be
returned and cash refunded if unsuitable.
10/6
POST
FREE.
Light & Dark Crey
or Fawn. Please
state size.
PIKE BROTHERS
Toowoomba.
LIMITED
BRISBANE.
Townsville.
IffeW®ffl?lll
hmwss rams®
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, hooks and
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment is
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper’s
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, (Australasia),
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MAGNESIA FOII ACID STOMACHS.
TAKE A LITTLE IN WATER AFTER
EVERY MEAL.
Never mind the old-fashioned advice to
try this or that remedy for your indigestion
or dyspepsia. Be guided by physicians and
specialists who have devoted years of study
to these troubles, and have learned what it
is that causes flushed face after meals, heart-
burn, flatulence, etc. They know that in
nine cases out of 10 these symptoms indicate
acid in the stomach and food fermentation,
and so, instead of prescribing drugs or arti-
ficial digestants, they recommend the use of
half a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in
a little water after meals. This neutralises
the harmful acid instantly and also prevents
all possibility, of food fermenting in the
stomach. This bisurated magnesia is of
greater value than drugs or medicines, for it
attacks the root cause of the trouble, whereas
drugs merely deaden the herves and disguise
the. symptoms. The genuine bisurated mag-
nesia can easily be obtained from high-class
chemists everywhere, but care should be
taken not to use the citrates, oxides and sul-
phates, as well as crude mixtures of bismuth
and magnesia. Some of these are very simi-
lar in name to bisurated magnesia, and are
apt to confuse the uninformed, hence the
importance of asking the chemist very dis-
tinctly for bisurated magnesia.— Advt.
The most recent Zeppelin raids would seem
to have reached almost the limit of fatuous-
ness. A thousand or more distempered
Clyde workers were engaged in intermittent
strikes which prevented the completion of
certain urgently needed big guns. A satis-
factory settlement was still banging in the
balance when a squadron of Zeppelins came
and dropped bombs on the east coast of Scot-
land and the northern counties of England.
Thus for the first time the war was carried
near to brother Sandy’s industrial camp, and
the Clyde workers’ sense of responsibility
was suddenly quickened. Having served to
cure the Clyde malcontents of their contum-
acy, the Zeppelin raid-directors may be ex-
pected, in their stupidity, to order an attack
on Ireland, by way of “varning” the coun-
try which was not included in Asquith’s half-
hearted Conscription Bill. Then wfill come
a great recruiting boom in Ireland and Ger-
man “frightfulness” will have achieved all
possible moral effect in all directions.
“ THERE’S A DIVINITY THAT SHAPES
OUR ENDS.”
NETTIE : “The very night that Dolly first
wore her pyjamas there was a fire in the
hotel."
LETTIE : “Yes, but Dolly always was lucky.”
MISSING.
GUEST (who has been struggling to button his coat inside out): “Waiter! I've losht my
buttonholes (hic). Slice if they’re on the floor, will yer?"
Something like an apple revival is in pro-
gress in Melbourne. The war having left
growers with about half a million pounds’
worth of the fruit on their hands, an all-
round effort is being made to induce the
people to eat up the surplus. The daily
papers have suddenly found unimagined
virtues in the pippin, and the clergy are
doing their best to build up the habit of
consuming Three Crowns and Jonathans,
affirming that such things are condu-
cive to virtue. “I firmly believe that
if apples were eaten as we eat meat
we w'ould be a more righteous people,”
says one conspicuous pulpiteer. By
apples man fell, by apples he is to be
restored to grace. Similia similibus curan-
I tar. There is even talk of a great Apple
Carnival Day, with pretty girls invading the
city with samples and extorting orders from
citizens, a thousand Eves tempting a
hundred thousand Adams. No suggestion
has yet been made as to how they are to
dress the part.
j * * * *
Newly-arrived in Melbourne from the Vic-
torian backblocks, where a is a
and no argument about it, Police Magistrate
Beaven recently introduced a new idea at the
Pralnan police court. In an obscene-language
case, when the constable was about to write
down the items for the shocked eyes of the
Bench, the P.M. ordered him to save time
and say the words aloud. “Any women pre-
sent,” remarked the Bench, “may leave the
court.” The constable gave the full details,
while the women stayed where iliey were, no
doubt comfortably recognising the fact that
a is a all the world over.
* * * *
As the commercial grave that Germany
dug for the world is opened. Civilisation
stands on the brink clasping its brow with
one hand and holding its nose with the
other. Amongst other things unearthed the
most rabid importer in Australia might
shiver at the revelation that Germany, in
the ordinary way of business, wired and
lighted the Liege forts that it afterwards
smashed so accurately with siege artillery;
but it wouldn’t do to make too much fuss
about it, because one of our most respect-
able dailies, on one of its most thoughtful
mornings, asked why Australia couldn’t
settle the bothersome Northern Territory
problem once and for all by importing a
million Germans settlers —practically a
whole first-line army of Huns with its Von
Ivluck disguised as an innocent beer-gar-
dener ! The same respectable paper is still
trying to do all the thinking for the con-
tinent that is still ours.
“Y.Z.”: I stopped to look in a shop-
window, and was attracted by the appeal of
a blind man whose pitch was on my right.
“ ’Sist the blind !” he was saying. “ ’Sist
the blind ! ’Sist the blind !” There was no
response. Apparently there had been no con-
tributions to the good cause for some time
past—his tin was empty. “ ’Sist the blind !”
he said. There was a certain acerbity in his
tone. “ ’Sist the blind!” The voice was
louder. “ ’Sist the blind !” The appeal was
now almost fierce. Then in a hissed aside;
“Mean ’ounds !” Aloud again : “ ’Sist the
blind !” Aside : “Lot of crawlers!”
Aloud and viciously: “ ’Sist the blind!
’Sist the blind !” There was still no response,
and the man gathered himself for a great
effort. “ ’Sist the blind !” he said. “ ’Sist
the blind !” Then; “Can’t one o’ you bear to
Part with a copper?” A small crowd gath-
ered, and there was some badinage. The
blind man restrained himself, and presently
resumed in a wheedling tone; “ ’Sist the
blind, please. ’Sist the pore blind man !” He
maintained this strain for a few minutes,
then reached out and found me with his
stick. “Hi, you,” he said, tapping me on the
leg. “Have the Germans come ?”
“Eddyson”: It was after midnight, and
the city was very still, when a bored police-
man, pausing in the vicinity of the Anglican
Cathedral, Melbourne, heard a faint knock-
ing. He hearkened. The knocking was
insistent. It grew louder. The bulk of the
Cathedral lay in dense shadow, but presently
J. Hop discovered two figures on the stone
steps at the main entrance. He w’ent over
the iron railings to investigate. A man
and a woman. The man was short and
portly, the woman tall and slim. James
was battering on the church door with the
fat end of a bottle, and every now and
again he called “Shop !” From the mighty
Cathedral there was no response. John Hop
enjoyed the unusual spectacle for a minute
or two, then butted in. James was drunk.
So was Saucy Kate. The latter had her
hat on rear-end foremost, and the top of a
long feather was trailing in her right eye.
Her expression was one of beatific patience ;
but James was impulsive. He hit the door
three times with his bottle. “Shop!” lie
cried. “And what the divil d’ yeh want?”
said the majesty of the law. James poised
his bottle. “Wha’ d’ we wan’?” he said
“Wha’ dyeh think we wan’ i We w T anner
get marrier. Tha’s wha’ we wan’. Wanner
get married, see?” Then he hit the door
again and barked “Shop!”—almost angrily
by now.
“Pink Tape”: N. S. Wales Lands Dept, is
in Queer-street. Ever since the war began
Gregory Wade, Dan Levy and John Haynes
have been able to bombard the Govt, with
questions about Germans on the pay-sheet.
The information the triple alliance sprung
can have been obtained only from officials
in the Dept., and very often the staggered
Minister in charge was viciously questioned
about matters in his own shop that he knew
nothing about. As a result Ashford called
in a police detective, who has been putting
the whole staff on the rack in. the
hopes of bouncing someone into betraying
the eel under the rock. Ruffled at this, the
Lands Dept. Association, ignoring its head,
appealed to Attorney-General Hall for
redress, though it is hard to see what that
intelligent person can do to help unless he
collides violently with his colleague. Mean-
while an M.L.A. ‘visiting the Dept, is as
welcome as if he had Asiatic plague
* * * *
“Mimosa” growls from under the Pyra-
mids :
The Commonwealth Bank would be doing us
a good turn by opening a branch at this end—Cairo
for preference. The amount of money cabled through
is very large, and the facilities provided are entirely
unsatisfactory. This is due partly to the agents
working shorthanded and partly to their ignorance of
the English language. The charges, moreover, are
out of all proportion to the service rendered. Granted
that there may be a move out of Egypt sooner or
later, still it is plain that there will be tens of
thousands of Australians here for months, maybe
years: and surely it is as necessary to give these
h i lows a branch as to establish one at some already
well-banked Australian township with a population
of a few hundreds.
“Garboard Streak”: Deep down in the
hold of what used to be the Commercial
Travellers’ Association Building in Flinders-
street, Melbourne, is one of the city’s quaint-
est clubs. This is the haunt of the Ancient
Mariners, who comprise most retired Vic-
torian shellbacks of any note. The club-
room is rigged and fitted to represent a wind-
jammer. To starboard is the mainbrace, so
convenient for splicing; and looking through
the cabin skylight one sees the ship’s grog
wherewith the splicing is done in real Bristol
fashion. Aft is the poop, on which is a
wheel and a noble brass binnacle housing a
compass. The mainmast bears a brass plate
with the names of the ship’s company, and
on the break of the poop is the brass bell
of the old Loch Tay. On the port side are
the capstan bars, and looking for’ard one
sees the capstan head, which recalls the
chantyman’s carol of “Whisky for my
Johnny!” Another ship’s bell is on the
fo’c’s’le, and what ropes and timbers cannot
provide, paint struggles to imitate. The
vessel is manned with much pomp and
ancientry, even the “ship’s husband” riot
being forgotten.
THE MARBLE HEART.
He ( making poor headway): “Will nothing
induce you to change your mind and
marry?"
SHE: “Another man might."
Is England taking the war seriously?
Judge by this from the London Morning
Post :
FOOTMAN, under butler, WANTED ; must be over
20; two in family, nine indoor servants, including
boy; country all the year. —Sandgate Park, Pull-
borough, Sussex.
War! What war?
RATTLE AND QUIET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the surface of things we see the never-ending
rush and rattle of modern life. And we are all too
ready to forget the millions of steady workers in quiet
offices. — Ladies’ Home Journal.
The milkman fiend at five o'clock
Rattled his ribald cans,
And sleep could not survive the shock.
My wife (as good as any man’s)
Kept rattling as she dressed,
While this she tied and that she pinned ;
The blind flashed up to end my rest;
The tassel rattled in the wind.
The maid was rattling cups and spoons,
While ’neath the shower I, stark,
Sighed for the little secret moons,
The deep, unpeopled dark.
At breakfast, wife and all the kids,
With Dick and sister Kit,
Rattled to shake the Pyramids
And make the welkin split.
The tram came rattling (crunch and slam!)
And that old humbug Brown
Rattled beside me as the tram
Went rattling into town.
A pretty flapper rattled so,
The while her knee touched mine,
I would have loved, with one fierce blow,
To split her through the chine.
My typist (who is very sweet —-
I’m no crabbed moralist),
To me, stiff in the scorner’s seat,
Came dimpling to be kissed.
So straight I knew just how it is
That some temptations sing.
They rattle no inanities:
They simply kiss and cling.
The moral of this rattling plaint
Is surely obvious:
Though tortured sore, we do not faint;
The gods are good to us.
The rattlers rattle till our brains
Are like to burst oftwhiles ;
But still, as solace for our pains,
The pretty typist smiles.
N.SAV.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


THE CRITIC.
LITTLE BILLY: “Oh, for Gawd’s sake, shake her up, John!”


THE SOLILOQUY.
There is still much doubt about the German naval intentions; but
to save the dynasty some development seems probable.—Daily paper.
Scene: Beside the Kiel Canal. A tumult in the distance.
Hamlet:
To sea or not to sea. That is the question.
Whether ’tis nobler in the ditch to suffer,
Or to take arms across a sea of trouble
And end things on the bottom. Spare me days!
It’s suicide to send them out to fight,
But if they stay it looks like bloody murder.
There’s the respect that makes calamity
Of that damned shambles—Verdun!


Jiuaeia.
Chaving
(2)TICK
XUveRX
hOR AN
Ideal Shave
MADE. IN AUSTRALIA
'lll
HESS
m.
©
x&i*'
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
r?
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress. __
Druids’ Art Union.
Total Value of Prizes, £750.
Ist PRIZE, £400; 2nd PRIZE, £lOO.
Value Guaranteed.
100 Prizes. TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
Upon receipt of postal note tor 1/- ticket
will be forward* d to any part of the Corn-
monweaith. Do not delay. Send postal
note and addressed envelope to the Secre-
tary,
R. A. BARRY.
715 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died last week, at Parramatta, Dan
Magill, an Australian journalist for just on
55 years. He had driven a pen on three
Hansards —Maoriland nearly 50 years ago,
then casually in Victoria, and for about a
decade in S. Aus., where it was then a con-
tract job done by the two morning papers. In
between times he had made good use of gal-
lons of ink for Victorian provincial papers,
mostly as city representative; and he wound
up a strenuous, uneasy life on the placid
Cumberland Times.
Harry Butler, the ingenious young cocky
from Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) who was last
year selected as S. Australia’s representative
in the aviation school at Point Cook (V.),
leaves for England at once to join the Fly-
ing Corps. A local committee whipped up
funds to buy an aeroplane, which has been
presented to John Bull’s Government and
christened the South Australia; and young
Butler carries a letter saying that the State
would feel honored if its own young wheat-
farmer became the pilot of the machine.
ENEMY METHODS.
DOSSEB (to recruiting sergeant who has been
ragging him): “Give it a rest, General;
wot use would Hi he in the army?”
R.S.: “Oh, we could use you as poison gas!”
Maoriland is proud of one man who has
not enlisted. He is Sergeant-major Nelly,
who, when he strolled into Kumara the other
day to say good-bye to some of the boys,
was ballasted with medals for Sebastopol,
Inkerman, Alma, Balaclava, the Central
India campaign, the Turkish campaign and
the Maoriland war. Not a living soul
handed him a white feather.
One more Eureka Stockade veteran died
last week—old “Bill” Burnside, of Cran-
bourne (Vic.). He arrived in Victoria as a
3 r oung man in 1852 with 70,000 other gold
seekers and was a middle-aged party btfore
he left Ballarat and took up land at Ileales-
ville. He saw the nineteenth century out at
Healesville and then moved to Clyde, near
Cranbourne, and died a grazier, aged 88.
Two grandsons of an Australian pioneer
who finished up in mystery got into the
Sydney papers the other day—one through
being plaintiff in an action against the N.
S. Wales Government for compensation for
land resumed; the other through being
appointed Sydney city solicitor. Both are
Waldrons. The original inhabitant of that
name was a Captain of the 39th Regiment,
who, on retiring, was given a grant of land
on the South Coast—some of the very land
that the recent row was about. There he
was killed, and two convict women were
sentenced to hang for it. But there was a
row about that, too. and on Governor
Bourke’s recommendation the pair were let
down with three years’ hard.
IGNORANCE.
“I suppose, now, these Turks ’d be an
ignorant lot?”
“My word! Why, not a blommin ’ one of
’em I spoke to had ever heard of Les
Darcy.”
When Chidley was landed at the Goul-
burn lunatic asylum he got into the clothes
of the common trousered citizen without any
more than a philsosophic shrug.
Rider Haggard stepped off the Turakina
at Hobart recently and started out' to
see what chances there are for settling Brit-
ish soldiers and sailors on the land. His ideas
of getting them there and keeping them there
seem rather nebulous and Watsonian, except
that he thinks co-operation is the key to
success. He is strong on the obvious fact
that there is too much crowding into the
big cities in Australia, and gets off the plati-
tude that it is a question of national life and
death to put more settlers on the land and
build up strong rural communities. He
didn’t mention how it is to be done with
Govts, in power that talk decentralisation
with their tongue in their cheek.
For the long-ride-to-enlist championship,
enter Wilfred Steele, of North Adelaide, and
latterly of Newcastle Waters, in the middle
of Australia. Two brothers (both inter-
state cricketers) are already at the Front.
This one, to get to camp in Adelaide, did
860 miles (estimated) per cornel and horse,
and 688 more from the rail-head to the city.
Campbell Carmichael, the ex-Minister of
Education in N. S. Wales who gave up poli-
tics for the time being in order to lead the
rifle-reservists into active-service khaki, isn’t
the first of the family to do something
notable. His brother was responsible for
perhaps the longest boat voyage ever made
by. an Australian sailor. The mariner was
chief officer on the Dayspring 11., a Presby-
terian mission vessel, when that ship was
wrecked off the New Hebrides some time in
96. With half-a-dozen companions in an
open boat, and some provisions hastily col-
lected from the sinking vessel, and without
either chart or compass, he steered the craft
safely without loss of life to Rockhampton
At the time it was reckoned to rank with
BJighs famous voyage after the mutiny of
the Bounty.
In the gallery of pioneers that Aus-
tralia can dip its hat to is Elliot Blake. He
was a chemist, who put his scientific know-
ledge to excellent practical use in two ways:
in the ’fifties he made wine at Irrawang, four
miles from Raymond Terrace, and in ’5B
he established sulphuric acid works at
Stockton, opposite Newcastle. Still that
won’t commend him so much to herds of
people as the fact that he introduced the
tomato to Australia.
Lieut. Brandon, the Maorilander who pur-
sued a Zeppelin that was hovering
over London the other night, and handed
the visitor some bombs, pursues
Costs as an ordinary thing. In
this business he runs in double
harness with his dad. Last
year he flung his wig and
caveat under the table and
bolted oft' to learn how to glide
through the clouds according to
precedent. Old man Brandon,
for many years legal partner of
Tom Ilislop, who in the long
ago was a member of the Atkin-
son Ministry and later climbed
into the mayor’s chair in the
windiest city in the Empire, is
a Maorilander by birth and in
the volunteer days was a patri-
otic and decorative Majah. Tin,
mother of the bomb-pitcher was
originally one of the Kebbell
family, and as the Kebbells
mostly grow jumbucks and are ready to
drop 150 bombs on the local land reformer
the flying barrister comes from a pretty fiery
strain.
Farthing, M.L.A., who some months ago
expressed bis intention of enlisting at as
early a date as possible, is still tied to Mel-
bourne by his £lOOO suit against Methody-
parson Hen. Worrall. The case was booked
to go before the C. J. and a jury during this
month; but it has been adjourned until
June. At this rate Australia will have
fought all up and down the Rhine and be
back home again before the Liberal Jd.
gets a chance to blow the bubbles (if any)
off his reputation at the cannon’s mouth.
Died last week, John Gorst, a Right Hon.
and a Sir, for over 30 years a member of
the House of Commons, and a prominent
figure in official life. Away back in the early
’sixties Gorst travelled to Maoriland and
spent a couple of eventful years as Civil
Commissioner on the Waikato, most of the
time at Te Awamutu. There he ran a news-
paper as part of his scheme for convincing
the Maori inhabitant that the local brown
king wasn’t anything like as big a potentate
as Wikitoria. It was a queer little print,
and some of the Maoris thereabouts learned
to set type, but publication was suspended
when Henare raided the premises and carried
off the alphabet to make bullets with. A
few years ago Gorst revisited Maoriland and
shook hands with many ancient Maoris and
pakehas who remembered him in the days of
long ago. He was a fine old man then, and
took a very genuine pleasure in his trip. In
those early times Gorst had married the
daughter of a clergyman at Christchurch,
and it was there his eldest son, Eldon, after-
wards financial adviser to the Govt, of
Egypt, was born. Harold, the second son,
is a literary man and the husband of a fairly
well-known lady novelist whose principal re-
creation is stated by herself to be talking.
The father was 81 when he died.
SIGHTS O’ MELBOURNE.
A familiar figure in Lower Collins-street.
Ihere are many good reasons for enlisting
and a recruit who passed into the ranks £
Carnarvon (Tas.) the other day hadhif
full share of them. He has 10 children th
latest arrivals being twin girls, ard he
allowed it was up to him to look for a lim!
peace. lllue
REMEMBERING THE SABBATH .
“Now, who can tell me why we should like
Sunday better than any other day?"
“Please, teacher, because we get a bigger
dinner on a Sunday .”
Henry Chaplin, British M.P. and antho
rity on Agriculture at Westminster, has been
made a baron. It won’t hurt him, but he
may feel a trifle annoyed when he hears
picture show audiences everywhere rejoicing
that the genius of Charlie has at last been
officially recognised.
Sailed for parts unknown, William Tyler,
for 10 years Shipping Master at Newcastle
(N.S.W.). He did good work in stamping
out the crimping evil which raged in the
Coal City when he started there, For-
merly a pilot, he left the bridge as the result
of the medical examination insisted Upon by
the Marine Boards after one of the frater-
nity had piled up a P. and O. boat at Point
Nepean, on the run into Melbourne. The doc-
tors detected the symptoms of the complaint
which killed him at 63.
There’s a little-mentioned Y.C. in the
Victorian ranks. Leslie Maygar won the
Cross in S’Afriea, and was a captain of
Light Horse at Euroa when this row started.
Aow bo is a Lieut.-Colonel. When he is at
home he grows sheep at Longwood, in the
south end of the Kelly country.
Adolph Leschen, dead in Adelaide at
close-on 80, arrived from Holstein in 1857,
and became known as the “father” of gym-
nastics in S. Aus. He mingled physical in-
struction with school-teaching until Govern-
ment asked him to specialise in the former;
after which he taught all and sundry to
swing clubs and do things on bars. He
taught doctors, lawyers, State schools, the
colleges, _ girls— everybody. His son Hugo
has carried on the work for years past.
J. C. Ludowici, whose leather-belting is
one of the most widely known of Australian
manufactures, died a few days ago, aged 80.
Born in Holstein, he went to London as a
boy, and was still only a youth when he
came to Sydney under engagement to Peter
Russell, who had a tannery as well as a
ln 1858 Russell closed down the
tannery in consequence of a strike, as he did
the foundry business for the same reason
years afterwards. Ludowici then started for
himself, and helped greatly to heighten the
repute of Australian-made goods. His success
outside the works was largely due to his
success inside them. His firm was probably
the first to give its employees an interest in
the business, and largely on that account it
has had a remarkably smooth passage.
Dr. Elizabeth Gunn, of Wellington
(M.L.), has been given the rank of captain
and a position on the staff. This puts the
Australian military chiefs quite in the shade,
lor some antediluvian reason —or no reason
at all—-women doctors this side who wished to
be patriotic were only allowed to enrol as
nurses. Dr. Helen Sexton, who was one of
Melbourne’s earliest woman medicoes, got
decidedly huffy about it and went off to
England and France on her own. Before
long she _was given complete charge of a
hospital in France, received the rank of
major, and was decorated by the French.
Sensible France has thrown overboard many
drayloads of foolish prejudices and dusty
precedents.
THE QUARTERLY ACCOUNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three months ago I said, “Look here,
This is another glad New Year,
And every glad New Year you’ve had
You’ve made good resolutions, lad.
And, first of all, you’ve always said,
‘Now, strike me blind and lobster-red,
The Water Cart’s the thing for me —
Farewell this life of jamboree.
No more for mine to graft and grub
For some fat hog who keeps a pub.
Gorstruth, that I should toil with groans
To give him heaps of hard-earned bones!
No more for me ! No blanky fear!
This is where you get sense, old dear.
Each week from January One,
Just like a bullet from a gun,
You’ll hit the dust up as you go
To bank beneath the chimes your dough!’”
Thus did I speak my piece to me
On January One, y’ see.
And, now that three months’ course has run,
What have you done about it, son?
Where are the bones that you did say
You sure were bound to salt away?
Where is that clear and flashing eye ?
Where is the ring you meant to buy
For Her, like Dennis’s Doreen,
The boshter tart ? —you’ve not a bean !....
Aw, strike, I’ll make another start—
To try and catch the Water Cart!
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


J
m
i —“is
o
r 0;
m
<r:
: $M
IS
i ri
«>
«a
%
a
\
%
sggr
Mill
SI
sss
mmm
li
, „ ajtsmgg?Blm
pfs#%sSgjm
aßjM&gQwgig*
m
IsSsl
fi
w
ww?
§il|SlSf
IMiili
p
fg&
<e
sg
its
'
esSs ■
|Ct
i;WVv\>
l$H
‘*s
4
Sft&Sg
1
Sfcfl
mj
iXJg?
?r%
&r£
>5
&
;v
Mi
<s&
i^*=
B:#;%-.' ; ' - \
- ■
A-fe.
&
ss*s
'.'-U:
r>ssy
$£
-’6
%
ish£
Mi
7
Sf
,'V
<7
t:
B
'>&
m
%?■
:J~~2
to ■ -v
V
/
I
J
■ft#
if
I
r
The First Chill
Touch of Autumn
THE chilly Autumn evening air heralds the early approach
of Winter with its stormy blasts of rain and sleetin
winds. Man's thoughts are meanwhile turned to findin
shelter and protection from the rigors of much coldei day s
to come.
Timely and appropriate —as our showings always are conies this ANNOUNCE
MENT OF THE SEASON'S FIRST AUTHENTIC STYLE SHOW of warm
wearables, a fine series of exhibits which demonstiate yet once again our pie-
established leadership as Outfitters of Men.
484 to GEORGE STREET ; 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY-
QfQ C/q
See tHe Style
show.
Everyone should take the time to
see this early Season’s Show, but more
especially those who value knowing
how the trend of fashion goes.
The fifteen fine displays which
occupy both George Street and Royal
Arcade Windows in this the first and
earliest Style suggestion—in that the
last and final word of Fashion, feature
the character and high standard of
“Austral” i\pparel for Men’s wear at
it’s very best.
To every Man we say again—take
time to see this Early and Authentic
Autumn Show.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON
ALL COUNTRY ORDERS


NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Sa.'fety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
Before Making Your Will, or Settling Your Property,
WRITE TO, OR CALL ON,
• the public trustee.
Lowest Charges. No Profits. State Guarantee Cuiwuiia Chambers, 67 castiereagh street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Ferdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers and retailers of rubber goods :
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Reduc- not reck-
tion of oned an
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Asset).
1907.. £5,804 10 p.c. = £4,001 £1,803 £12,799
1908.. 7,271 10 „„ 4,742 2,529 10,270
£52 added to goodwill account . . 10,322
1909.. 8,050 10 p.c. = 5,801 2,249 8,073
£63 added to goodwill account .. 8,136
1910.. 10,184 10 p.c. = 6,757 3,427 4,709
£l3 added to goodwill account . . 4,722
Premium on shares . . 2,000 2,722
1911.. 14,645 15 p.c. = 12,500 2,145 577
£l2 added to goodwill account .. 589
Reserves.
Premiums on shares .. 6,878 6,269
To Reserves.
1912.. 15,397 121 p.c.= 12,160 3,237 9,526
1913.. 13,126 8 „ „ 10,222 2,904 12,430
1914.. 15,597 10 „ „ 13,000 2,597 15,027
1915.. 32,353 12J „ „ 16,250 16,103 31,130
Tlie reserves are made up in this way:—
Machinery and*plant fund .. £15,851
General reserves . . . . 21,182
Unappropriated profit . . . . 9,330
£46,363
Less goodwill, patents, etc. 15,233
Net reserves as above . . £31,130
Note that the reserves include a machinery
and plant fund ; and that is always a doubt-
ful entry. It may be merely a set-off against
actual wear and tear, in which case it is not
really a reserve at all, and the net profits
ought then to be diminished by whatever the
fund amounts to. On the other hand, it may be
a sum set by out of profits as an addition to
what is reckoned a fair thing for deprecia-
tion, in order to provide for contingencies
and anything special. Which of the two it is
in this case this paper doesn’t know. The
co.’s accounts don’t usually say much, and
this year they say less than usual. Hitherto
the Profit and Loss abstract has shown gross
profits on one side and trade exes, on the
other. This time the directors do not tell
how the net profits are arrived at. No doubt
the spring in the figures has been so remark-
able that it has not been thought advisable
t) go into details in front of competitors.
It looks, however, as if there had been a
very fine increase in the turnover : anyhow,
that seems a fair assumption from the big
increase in book debts shown in the next
table: —■
1909. 1913. 1914. 1915.
Capital . . . . £60,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Liabilities . . 15,849 36,320 36,644 42,712
Stock . . . . 35,838 88,459 83,960 81,016
Freehold, plant,
etc 24,476 71,305 76,599 82,757
Book debts .. 9,625 21,984 28,118 48,940
Other assets .. 839 904 792 879
That the co. should have been able to carry
over £20,000 more of book debts and spend
over £6OOO on plant and premises without
going more than about £6OOO further into
debt is an achievement which ought to make
the co. feel that a black year has had some
bright spots in it. But the co. isn’t always
going to be as well placed in the matter of
competition as it has been in the past 12
months. The outside world has been too
busy making things to kill itself with to
send us as many motor-car tubes and covers,
for instance, as usual. The Kaiser has been
good enough to thus give us a start. Now it
rests with ourselves whether we will put
ourselves back on scratch again.
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin. M.L. 1 :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Divide:.d;. ttn serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1904 i 16,479 7 p.c. = 1.3,683 2000 796 21,061
I Premiums on shares isi ed .. 17 21,078
1905.. 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 -f 16 ’ 250 7 » » 13,751 2499 25,357
( Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
I Depreciation account trar.s-
-1907 -f ferred to general reserves . . 7851 33,382
( 18,652 7 p.c. = 14,000 3520 1132 34,514
1908.. 17,816 7 „ „ 14,000 1600 2216 36,730
1909.. 16.962 7 „,, 14,000 1000 1962 38,692
1910.. 16,707 7 ~ „ 14,000 1336 1371 40,063
1911.. 18.225 7 „ „ 14,000 1500 2725 42,788
1912 / 19,191 7 „,, 15,515 1500 2176 44,964
( Premiums on shares issued .. 3750 48,714
1913 -! 21,544 7 p.c. = 16,083 2500 2961 51,675
I Premiums on new shares .. 4375 56,050
1914.. 14,221 7 p.c..= 17,453 1275 51,543
915.. 23,459 7 „ „ 18,541 1500 3418 54,961
.916.. 24,730 7 „ „ 18,550 —■ 6180 61,141
They’ve rather altered the form of these
accounts, too. Hitherto, as a rule, various
amounts were annually appropriated out of
profits to write down buildings or other
assets. This year, instead of the gross profits
being shown “after deducting net cost of
manufacturing,” they are shown “after
deducting net cost of manufacturing and
depreciation on plant, buildings and stock.”
Probably the change is connected with the
circumstance that this year’s gross profit
after deducting depreciation was £74.844,
while that for the year prior to war before
deducting depreciation was only £66,835.
There are various reasons why we don’t care
to own up just now to making more profit
than usual. It isn’t only a matter of taxa-
tion, either, though that is a weighty
consideration. There is also an unpleasant
feeling that one shouldn’t make extra profits
now, because they can only be made out of
our own nation’s misfortune. But if only
some of these chemical cos. would give a
few actual figures showing the prices at
which they bought cream of tartar, for
instance, immediately before the war and the
prices at which they were rushed by local
buyers as soon as it was known that the
German supplies were cut off altogether and
that France would probably not be able to
send us any ! Those figures would be enough
to satisfy any reasonable man of the awful
state of helplessness to which Britain’s free-
trade system reduced it—and incidentally us.
For what is the use of our having control
of the seas if it was our enemy that was
supplying us with requisites?
The next table shows the movements of
the various balance-sheet items during the
past 10 years:—
1906. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital . . £200,000 £256,245 £265,000 £265,000
Liabilities . . 59,833 50,985 46,095 60,425
Stock.. .. 151,454 186,693 175,670 165,399
Factories, etc. 89,813 101,489 135,692 151,972
Book debts . . 46,414 76,474 66,286 70,357
Cash, etc. . . 7,997 14,987 2,254 11,171
In the 10 years £65,000 of capital has been
got in, and liabilities have been increased
by £592. That’s a total of £65,592 got into
the business from outside. Meantime the
co. has approximately £14,000 more in stock,
£62,100 more in factory and other property,
and £24,000 more on its books. That shows
the help the undivided profit has been to the
business ; it shows also how substantial the
profit has been in excess of the dividend.
And a great deal more than the £62,100
mentioned above has been actually put into
factory and other freehold property and
plant. That is the net increase in book
value after writing-off very large sums for
depreciation. Nearly £60,000 was put into
acid works at Auckland alone—chiefly in
connection with the artificial fertiliser busi-
ness. There ought to be a big field for the
co. in this branch. According to men who
should be good judges there will be a
period of low —probably very low —prices for
wheat after the war; and the cultivator who
is going to keep the wolf farthest from the
door is the one who is most apt in calling
science to aid his sweat.
Finney, Isles & Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane: —
Towards
Julv, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1905.. £4,179 6 p.c. = £1,768 £2,411 £15,155
1906.. 5,323 6 „ „ 1,909 3,414 11,741
1907.. 9,457 6 ~ ~ 2,189 7,268 4,473
P ptjpi’VPS
1908.. 12,767 6 „„ 3,929 8,838 4,365
1909.. 13,898 6 „„ 3,983 9,915 14,280
1910.. 11,694 6 „ „ 4,037 7,657 21,937
1911.. 19,863 8 „ „ 6,815 13,048 34,985
Premiums on new shares. . 4,062 39,047
1912.. 16,856 8 p.c. = 13,057 3,799 42',846
1913.. 14,617 8 „ „ 12,861 1,756 44,602
1914.. 20,475 8 ~,,12,944 7,531 52,133
1915.. 17,744 8 „ „ 13,019 4,725 50,858
Jan.,
1916.. *9,269 8 „„ 6,547 2,722 59,580
*Subject to remarks hereunder.
First of all. when looking at the last line,
note that the accounts are for a half-year.
And there are a couple of other points to
stick in the memory. First, the past half-
year’s profit figures have been reduced by
£lBOO which was paid out in respect of an
income-tax adjustment and a staff-bonus for
the previous year. The amount required to
make the income-tax adjustment certainly
should have been charged against the pre-
vious term; but : the two things can’t be
separated, and it wouldn’t have been fair to
charge the staff bonus against 1914-15,
as that year had already carried one year’s
bonus. The foregoing has the effect of mak-
ing the profit for the past six months look
smaller than it ought to be, while that for
the previous year looks larger. Further, in
each of the past two terms an amount has
been put into a new war taxation and con-
tingency fund : £1250 for the past half-year ;
£2500 for the previous year. The whole
amount is still intact except for £lO5 which
has been donated to patriotic funds; so there
are reserved profits of £3645, made in the
V IS months, and imt shown in the table.
( ’ this to the pnbhshed fieures, and the
average profit f>r the a t three half-years
was £10,219, which was just equal to that
of 1913-14. The past half-year’s was ahead
of all. The performance is the more cheerful
because it has been put up in spite of
drought and in spite also of dislocations due
to structural improvements and extensions
which have been in progress at the Finney
Isles’ homestead.
The next table indicates the very quick
progress of the business: —
1905. 1910. 1914. 1915. 1916.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 29,462 67,293 154,393 155,293 155,893
Debt to
Finney's.. 42,704 27,458
Other liabili-
ties . . 60,962 133,795 117,205 114,557 116,337
Stock . . 60,878 89,119 122,172 123,408 128,683
Real property 7,665 84,332 111,867 112,018 116,529
Book debts 25,550 45,122 67,407 70,333 72,510
Other assets 23,648 34,649 28,769 29,971 24,280
Note that the co. has now no less than
£116,529 in freehold property. It owns one
of the finest blocks in Brisbane, and one of
the most complete for its purpose in Aus-
tralia. As four-fifths of the capital is thus
represented by first-class city property, and
as an extensive country business is done,
which makes spot-cash trading difficult,
there is naturally a pretty large monkey on
the premises: 5 p.c. debentures, £39,000;
mortgages, £45.057 ; trade creditors, £32.280.
Yet, considering the figures on the other
side, these liabilities are moderate ; and the
directors evidently see the wisdom of holding
them down. Very few trading concerns in
Australia have shown a healthier expansion
in the past 10 years. In the coming 10 it
is to be hoped the management will give
its brains and energy especially to the
manufacturing side of the business. There
are big possibilities that way, too.
Pearson Law, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of shirts, collars and other men’s
wear, was registered at the end of Septem-
ber, 1911, but no accounts are available for
the first nine months. The co. paid £7400
for goodwill (apparently in shares), and
preliminary exes, account for the rest of the
deficit with which this table starts :
Dividends.
A
t " 1
Pref. Written
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. Off. Deficit.
1912.. £945 Nil £7524
Dec.,
1912.. £1325 706 Nil £194 7099
1913.. 4494 1486 Nil 473 4564
•>* Reserves.
1914.. 7874 1487 7 p.c. = £991 567 265
1915.. 6248 1487 10 ~,, 1416 918 2692
The past year’s profits were thus rather
smaller than the previous year’s; but this
was probably due to special outlay on an
advertising campaign to capture more of the
Australian market. Thus, though the trad-
ing account shows a gross profit of £21,592
as against £20,530 in 1914, salaries and
general exes, ran away with £15,344 as
against £12,656. Some of this extra outlay
should be bread cast upon the waters to
return in coming years, bringing other
batches with it. The wisdom of a forward
policy at this time isn’t open to question.
The foreign competitor is for the moment
weak, and the opportunity offers to get in
some vigorous punches at comparatively
little cost. The Australian manufacturer
needs to make his trade marks and trade
names so well known that presently the
public will open its mouth to ask for his
goods just as automatically as in the past
it asked for the goods of the foreigner. It
isn’t altogether a disadvantage that people
have short memories. They may forget the
foreigner’s goods just as readily as they are
apt to forget his misbehavior. The thing is
not merely to offer them goods, but also
accustom them to Australian trade names.
This co. started off with too little capital
—only £30,000, of which over £7500 was
represented by goodwill and “preliminary”
items. Subsequently £5400 more was got
in; and that wouldn’t have been enough if
the directors hadn’t gone slow in the matter
of dividends. There is £14,760 of 7 p.c.
cumulative pref. and £9840 of
capital, the former in £1 and tfie latter in
10s. shares. On the ordinaries no dividend
was paid till 1914. A result of this modera-
tion is that in years £10.216 of profit
has been accumulated —a very tidy per-
formance for a little co. which has never had
more than £35,400 of capital, and over
£lO,OOO of that in premises. But even now
the co. owes about £19,000, because the
necessities of the extra trade have taken
more money than the co. could provide out
of undivided profits. Stock alone now runs
to £23.462 and book debts to £15,552. It is
desirable to keep a sharp eye on these items,
of course ; still there is such a big field for
the co. to cultivate that The Bulletin
hopes it won’t be possible to reduce the
items by much. It would rather see the co.
constrained to get in more share capital.
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide)
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1903. .£13,752 sp.c.= £12,500 £750 £502 £31,873
1904.. 12,935 5 „ „ 12,500 750 31,558
1905.. 12,913 24 „ „ 6,250 2,750 3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5 „ „ 12,500 2,750 2120 37,591
1907.. 18,172 5 „ „ 12,500 2,750 2922 40,513
1908.. 24,135 5 „ „ 12,500 6,103 5532 46,045
1909.. 17,551 5 „ „ 12,500 5,051 46,045
1910.. 25,072 5 „ „ 12,500 12,572 46,045
1911.. 35,637 64,, „ 15,625 16,057 3955 50,000
1912.. 46,277 74 „ „ 18,750 27,527 50,000
1913.. 50,968 74 „ „ 18,750 32,218 50,000
1914.. 55,953 10 „ „ 25,000 30,953 50,000
1915.. 50,114 10 „ „ 25,000 25,114 50,000
1916.. 32,161 10 „ „ 25,000 4,750 2411 52,411
“Within the State,” the directors say, “busi-
ness has been well maintained, but at con-
siderably less profit, owing principally to
increased cost of material and expense of
production. At Broken Hill there has been
a continued depression and consequent fall-
ing off of profits.” Incidentally, the “con-
tinued depression” at Broken llill appears
to. have been particularly profitable to the
mining cos. It’s many years since they did
so well. The truth, of course, is that the
S.A. Brewing Co. has had to bear much of
the expense of a costly campaign against six
o’clock closing; and, to make matters worse,
the enemy won. What effect this will have
on the co.’s profits nobody can be sure. There
will be more home drinking, no doubt; but
when S. .Aus. drinks at home the chances
are that it will take a good deal more wine
good and bad, than it would if it lined up at
the bar. The output of beer will most likely
be reduced largely at once; and if this six
o’clock law lasts, the consumption per head
will probably be still smaller in 10 years’
time. That, at least, seems to be how things
are shaping in Maoriland cold-tea districts ■
the old man who had got into the habit of
taking his pot goes on taking it, but the
youngster doesn’t as a rule start. This co.
will also be hit in another way—by the
reduction of the rental value of its extensive
pub property. On the other hand, the uncer-
tainties with regard to the future of the
Trade will most likely keep competitors out
of the brewing business, and the co. will
thus get some benefit out of the gradual
growth of population. But the golden age
of the brewer-cum-pubowner seems to have
definitely passed. In S. Aus. the death
lattle was. in its throat when woman won
the franchise ; and the tremendous majority-
vote polled for six o’clock suggests that it
mightn’t be very difficult to go a step fur-
ther. The investor must certainly take the
possibility into account.
As to the security for principal, perhaps
few people take much heed of that in con-
nection with a brewing co. investment. Still
other things being equal, it is just as well to
have your money represented by something
which in case of disaster could show vn„
20s. in the £. What the position with
regard to this co. there is no telling Of
the total assets of £560,907, freeholds,’ lease
holds, plant and goodwill represent £4OB <)4() -
the balance is stock, sundry debtors and «
trifle of till money. On the other side there
are £245,755 of debts, including £2OO 000 of
5 pc. debentures. The co. has had the good
luck to have had a run of very fat years and
it has apparently written pub and other
properties down pretty hard ; also it doesn’t
look as though there was much goodwill left
in the heap. Still the breaking-up value of
the assets is a very uncertain quantity
Probably it wouldn’t amount to a tremen
dous lot in excess of the liabilities if the
assets had to be sold.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
carriers and suppliers of station goods: ’
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- R e -
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ v
July,’o9.. 7.056 10 p.c.= 3500 4500 37949
Jan.,’lo.. 7,415 10 „ ~3500 3000 915 38’857
July,’lo.. 7,252 10 ~,,3500 3000 752 39’609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO. . vg’goo
Jan,,’ll.. 7,450 10 p.c.= 4000 3000 450 30’059
July,’ll.. 7,852 10 ~,,4000 3000 852 30’911
Jan.,’l2. . 10,445 10 ~,,4250 6195 37’106
Reserves transferred to capital, £10,000.. 27 106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 3i’ior
July,’l2. . 10,742 10 p.c.= 4750 5992 37’098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000.. .. 55’098
Jan.,’l3.. 9,124 10 p.c.-- 5000 4124 62 299
July,’l3.. 7,895 10 ~ ~5000 2895 65 117
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 „ ~5000 3532 68’649
July,’l4.. 7,670 10 ~ ~5000 2670 71 319
Jan.,’ls.. 8,662 10 ~ ~5000 3000 662 71’95l
July, ’15.. 8,203 10 ~,, 5000 1000 1203 74’i84
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 „ ~5000 4121 75’305
Good old Wright, Heaton and Co.! Six
months back, when the papers were red with
the blood of Gallipoli, the directors put b.t
£lOOO as “provision to assist members of the
staff who have enlisted, upon their return
from the war.” This time “the directors
have not overlooked the fact that the busi-
ness is in a position to warrant the payment
of something over and above the customary
10 p.c. div., and at a recent meeting they
discussed the advisability of declaring a cash
bonus. After careful consideration, however
it was decided, as a matter of national duty,’
to take up a second £lO,OOO worth in the
Commonwealth loan instead.” Assuming
that the book debts are good, the accounts
show a remarkably strong position :
Liabilities.
Jan.,’o9. Jan.,’ls. July,’ls. Jan.,’l6
General .. . . £37,648 £53,062 £54,912 £48,757
Assets.
Cash 23,263 37,352 44,735 29,955
Premises, plant, etc. 15,202 18,466 18,427 17,963
Stock .. .. 27,501 42,417 48,727 45,176
Book debts . . 60,472 95,324 82,770 85,060
McCulloch Co. . . 21,846 36,985 38,937 40,408
Public securities.. —•— 11,000
The book debts. look heavy; but the co.
trades largely with country producers who,
though mostly first-class marks, don’t know
much about cash trading. There seems to
be no reason at all for assuming that the
whole £55,060 isn’t good. On the contrary,
Wright Heaton’s history is that provision
for contingencies has been made on such a
liberal scale that large sums have from time
to time been disclosed and transferred to
profit, being no longer required for the pur-
pose for which they were hidden up the
management’s sleeve. In the same way
“plant and office furniture” has been gradu-
ally written down out of profit until it
stands at only £8339 on the books; and as
the £40,408 invested in the McCulloch
Carrying Co. “returns 12| p.c. upon the
amount of capital used.” there appears to
be a good deal of undervaluation in that
item, too. So the actual reserves look to
be a good deal more than the £78,305 shown
in the published accounts.
It.. H. Gordon and Co.. Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
Dec., ’09..£7,942 10 p.c. = £2500 £5,442 £5,974
June,’lo.. 7,033 10 „ „ 2571 4,462 1,512
Reserves.
Dec., ’10..10,600 10 „ „ 2686 7,914 6,402
' A
Pref.
6 p.c. Ord.
June,’ll. .10,432 £260 10p.c.= 2,745 7,427 13,829
Dec., ’ll.. 13,065 533 10 „„ 2,765 9,767 23,596
•June,’l2. .11,112 Div. & Bonus 3,896 7,216 30,812
Dec., ’12.. 13,317 „ „ 3,719 9,598 40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
distributed, £12,393 . . . . 28,017
June, ’l3. .11,495 600 10p.c.= 3,297 7,598 35,615
Dec., ’13..16,982 600 12J „ „ 5,550 10,832 46,447
Dec., ’14..23,469 1200 10 „„ 7,998 14,271 60,718
Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 20,718
Dec., ’15..20,368 1200 10 ~,,12,000 7,168 27,886
The share capital is now £140,000 in 20.000
0 p.c. cumulative pref. shares and 120,000
ordinaries ; 40,000 of the latter were issued
as a bonus last year. This capital was
transferred from a general reserve, which
had been accumulated partly to protect
uncompleted transactions. This fund is
included with the reserves in the table;
hence also profits transferred to that fund
are reckoned as profits. Twelve months ago
the provision was regarded as having grown
unnecessarily large for the purpose—natu-
rally. because during these flush times very
few bad debts have to be provided for. The
trouble will come, if it comes at all, not
when any man can get another job at good
wages if he leaves or loses the one lie’s at,
but when jobs are hard to find, and the old
man consequently can’t always keep up the
payments on the hire-purchases the missus
has made. The co.’s great advantage is that
it has plenty of warning of the approach of
trouble, and can therefore restrict its credit
to persons least liable to be hit in the eye
by the rebound. Just about the first thing
to be found out by either shareholder or
investor who may possibly become a share-
holder in a business of this sort is whether
the management realises that we are on the
edge of a precipice. For quite a lot of
trading people still have the idea that, if
things are like this during a war, they are


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET ON APPLICATION,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed ... ••• £9,300,000
Annual Income Exceeds ••• £1,400,000
The Company is distinguished for
FINANCIAL STRENGTH
and
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT-
vlareßoan to
\ritn Bcwtiuv
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock,
t ;i ft nt'
Insure in
Th < 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The pessimist always feels like sitting clown and
taking life easy, but the fellow “who keeps on
keeping on,’’ he’s the man to win. “Chromol”
leather belting is a winner because it keeps on
keeping on. No matter what the conditions, it
grips and never slips, thus “keeping on” transmit-
ting maximum power at minimum cost. “Cffromol”
is heat- and moisture-proof, and being mineral
tanned is more durable and elastic than ordinary
belting. Used exclusively in many of the largest
mining plants in the Commonwealth—the best by
every test. J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., “Pioneer
Leather Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney (opp.
Q. V. Markets). Inter-State Agents: Victoria, Geo.
Russell P’t’v Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne;
South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide: West Australia: Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth; Queensland: Queensland Machinery
Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street.— Advt.
* * * #
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is s'imply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
Extract from The Citizen, London, 15th Septem-
ber, 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office. —In the.
personal accident and sickness department also the.
result of the operations for the year has been
entirely satisfactory, and bears indisputable evidence,
that the Society’s method of dealing promptly and]
generously with its just claims meets with increas-
ing support and appreciation. The profits enabled
the directors to declare a 2 per cent, bonus
addition to all the benefits covered. This addition
is permanent, and likely to be increased from year
to year.”— Advt. [5
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 190,000 gallons.
""They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) — Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write-
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description. —Advt.
The celebrated “Leplastrier” road-graders are most
suitable for Australian conditions. Prices range
from £25 upwards. Full particulars from the Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
* * * # •
The Australian Amicable Assurance Associa-
tion Limited. —This company continues to make
solid progress—accepting only gilt-edged insurances.
The premium income for the first four months of the
present financial year was considerably greater than
the income for the first 10 months of last year. The
income for March, 1916, alone exceeded the income
for the first four months of last year. Although
three times the business is being written, expenses,
are being greatly reduced.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
• * * ♦ #
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Offices 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World*
bound to be better still when the war is
over The fact is that borrowing for war
□reparations has exactly the same boomsome
effect as borrowing for anything else. The
principal difference between borrowing for
war and for almost anything else is that the
latter usually earns something towards pay-
ing interest, and in most cases the expen-
diture aids production. But this war expen-
diture won’t bring us in a cent. On the
contrary, our powers of production will be
smaller after the war than they were before,
owing to loss of life and the maiming of
combatants. We are in the midst, then, of
a boom which has the same consequences as
anv other boom; but the headache in the
morning will be much more unpleasant than
the one that follows from the usual financial
drunk —the one during which our habit is to
talk of “perm’ent an’ repr'uctive works.”
On the face of the accounts there are indi-
cations that this co. does realise what is
ahead. Anyway, the proportion of freeholds
and stock compared with book debts (mostly
balances on “hire agreements”) has been
steadily improving, until now for the first
time the book debts are the smaller of the
two composite items : —-
Properties, Stock, Sundry
Fittings, etc. Debtors.
Dec., 1909 .. £6,944 £50,230
June, 1910 . . 8,577 53,880
Dec., 1910 . . 53,782 68,402
June, 1911 .. 58,485 74,684
Dec., 1911 . . 69,889 90,630
June, 1912 .. 75,454 89,148
Dec., 1912 .. 80,995 103,491
June, 1913 .. 83,455 97,387
Dec., 1913 .. 75,999 101,222
Dec., 1914 . . 88,805 99,618
Dec., 1915 . . 110,576 89,085
As against those assets (they include the
lot) the co. owes £2400 on mortgage and
£23,376 to depositors, etc. Three years ago
the liabilities were £59,014, but since then
£18,037 of new capital has been got in. In
three years, therefore, the co. has reduced
its debts by about £31,000, though only
£lB.OOO of new capital has come in; and
meantime it has spent over £30,000 in free-
holds, additions to stock and other assets
apart from book debts —mostly freeholds.
There is no doubt about the gilded nature
or the past. We don’t expect the future to
give the same net return on capital. Still,
so long as the co. has the same sort of man-
agement, there looks to be more than a
moderate profit in the business. Far more,
at any rate, than in the ordinary furniture
business.
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne) :
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserve.
1904.. £3255 4 p.c. = £2953 £1,076 £3Ol
1905.. 3427 44 „,, 3322 1,181 332
1906.. 3874 5 „ „ 3691 1,364 552
1907.. 4931 5 „ „ 3691 2,604 630
1908.. 5737 5 „ „ 3691 4,650 602
1909.. 4804 5 ,r „ 3691 5,763 598
1910.. 4275 54 „ „ 4060 5,978 628
1911.. 6332 6 „ „ 4429 7,881 684
1912.. 5960 6 „ „ 4429 9,412 724
1913.. 6499 6 „ „ 4429 11,482 698
1914.. 6409 6£ „ „ 4798 13,093 717
1915.. 7430 7 „ „ 5168 15,365 707
Premiums on new shares, £4014 19,379 707
1916.. 9277 7 p.c. = 7000 21,652 711
This is the co. which stepped across the
Murray last year and issued new shares in
order to interest new clients. Previously the
paid capital stood at £73,822; it is" now
£lOO,OOO, and £4014 was netted for reserves
by the issue of the new £1 shares at 4s. pre-
mium. The immediate return on the 245.
isn’t gaudy, but it was a cheap purchase,
all the same, seeing that the old reserves
represented a trifle over 4s. per share, and
the new subscribers were buying into an
established business. In other words, there
are investments to represent rather more
than 245. per share, and the new men are
not charged anything at all for their share
of the Goodwill. These investments cer-
tainly include £52.400 of Vic., N. S. Wales
and Queensland Govt, stock, bonds and
debentures at par, though they are now
quoted at a discount; but the face value
isn t a matter of concern to the co., since
fiP aper -* s reall y a receipt for the deposit
of the various amounts required by the State
Legislatures as guarantees of good behavior.
no private trustee, by the way, has to put
yP an ythiug to guarantee his good behavior.
Which is just as well, because in thousands
of cases they haven’t got any good behavior
to guarantee and nothing to guarantee it
with, anyhow. Yet the unguaranteed private
trustee is entitled to charge twice as much
as the maximum that this co. is allowed to
marge.
* * *
The best bit of humor the mining crowd
nas had lately is in connection with the
mysterious zinc-marketing negotiations. The
-abor party—-Billy Hughes in particular—
nas had no time for combines. They were
instruments of the devil. Yet here were the
party leaders eock-a-doodling that they had
succeeded in forming a combine ; and Mahon
V owed that up with the announcement
nat he d had to crack the whip over two
cos. which didn’t want to come in. The idea
k- a Tu* 0r Govt., as the promoter of a com-
bine, threatening two fat cos. which didn’t
believe in the thing that the Labor Govt,
has told them not to believe in, tickled Col-
lins-street into hysterics.
So far as Australia is concerned the mar-
keting of zinc is of minor importance. What
it wants, to know is Who is going to treat
the stuff? Arrangements for that have to be
made before there is any progress worth
mentioning.
Rumor says that the two cos. which had
the whip flicked over them by acting Attor-
ney-General Mahon were the Broken Hill
I rop. and Mt. Lyell. Why the latter, the
Lord only knows, unless it be on account of
the probable Hercules-Tasmanian purchase.
Of course, if the Lyell Board means business
that way, then it had to be roped in, as the
zinc potentialities of Rosebery are bigger
than most outsiders count. Rumor says
that Hughes got all the big cos. to agree in
a general way to British control of the zinc
industry, but that the jibbing came at the
last stages. If from the B. 11. Prop, perhaps
the reason lies in the dislike of the Board
to let others finger its business. When it
sold the Port Pirie smelters the transfer of
control to Collins House, though swift,
wasn’t smooth. Now to lose the handling of
its zincs would be to reopen a partly-healed
sore. No one has heard what drastic action
was in Mahon’s mind, but the surmise is
that he would have shut down on the export
or metals or crudes belonging to the two cos.
That would have been a pretty stiff applica-
tion of the War Precautions Act, but appar-
ently the bluff came off. Had such a game
been tried on dead John Darling, how his
square jaw would have snapped? But there’s
no John Darling on the Board now.
* * * *
In spite of prices that make the old tin-
scratcher dizzy, Bourke’s Hill (N.S.W.) has
been having hard luck. Last half-year (to
the end of February) it had one plant idle
through lack of water all the time and the
other idle nearly half the time, and when it
worked it was in tough ground. The loss for
the term was £527. But there has been
plenty of rain since then, better ground
shows ahead, and there is no dead-horse of
debt to get rid of.
* * * *
A Bulletin man at a Queensland
funeral:—
In spite of the prophets the Great Fitzroy’s plant,
stores and buildings went under the hammer last
week as announced. The great works which a couple
of years ago throbbed with machinery running full
speed resounded now only to the auctioneer’s “going,
going—gone.” From an auctioneer’s point of view it
was a big job to sell that township in a week, but
they slogged it through from Monday to Saturday
(inclusive). The- daily attendance averaged about
250, but there was not more than half a dozen big
buyers present. Goninan (Newcastle), Miller and Co.
(Melbourne), the Engineering Supply Co., Cameron
and Sutherland, the Queensland Cement Co. and a
couple of S.Q. and N.Q. combinations went after the
big plant and got it —without making any life-long
enemies amongst themselves. Briefly, £40,000
worth of stuff as it stood—God knows what it cost to
put there! —realised just about £20,000. The plant
went at bargain rates, even allowing for cost of pull-
ing down and shifting. But the titbit of the sale
was the stores. There was £5OOO of them at ante-
war prices. They were sold in one lot and brought
£l9OO. A Rockhampton shindykit of four pooled a
monkey apiece with the intention of buying this lot,
but they got cold inside the slippers, and didn’t go
on with it. Most of the buyers were after small lots.
They fought tooth and nail for the cottages, but
the man who made the best deal in this respect was
he who bought about 1800 sheets of galvanised-iron
covering a shed for £145. With iron at ss. 2d. a
sheet in these parts, and hard to get at that, he
ought to make enough out of it to have a day at the
races. During the sale week the township of Mount
Chalmers, like the Spartan boy of old, seemed to
smile beneath its wounds. It is one of the few
places in Queensland that have had any rain this
year. Consequently green grass grew in the streets
and the hills wore their Sabbath raiment. Every-
where was evidence of the suddenness with which
things had been brought to a halt. As the train
approaches the town the white walls of a trim little
building peep out in relief through the green trees
on the hillside. It is the Miners’ Hospital-—com-
pleted the very week the mine closed, and never
asked to hold a patient. There is a large school
with scarcely a • dozen children to use its class-
rooms ; and a couple of churches with no congrega-
tions to drop their thrippences into the plate on
Sunday mornings. The two pubs that still kept the
pump flying did their first decent stroke of business
in two years. One time every stretcher and bed was
doubly manned —the night-shift taking the place of
the day-shift. Up at the mine everything looked
spick and span. In the blacksmith’s shop was evi-
dence of what was perhaps the last April Fool joke
ever perpetrated there. On the bellows was chalked
an announcement that on April 1, 1914, a smoke
concert would be held on the dump, to which all were
invited provided they brought their own tobacco and
beer. The sale was described as a great success—it
brought the debenture-holders their £20,000. For
Mount Chalmers and Central Queensland it was a
grim tragedy.
* * * •
Queensland’s output of tin last year was
worth £183,472, compared with £266,780
from A. S. Wales and £292,306 from Tas-
mania. The Vulcan, at Irvinebank, was
the most prolific tin show, crushing 9396
tons for concentrates worth £27,413. The
old open-cut workings have been re-opened
after a lapse of 20 years, and there are fair
quantities of crushing stuff available.
* * * .
Copper (N.Q.) reports having
oArvc ft - °t 1" P- c - ore a t a vertical depth of
300tt., and that’s excellent news. The temp-
tation to start smelting again now that
copper is selling at £lOO is great; but in the
previous smelting campaign the 110 ft. and
230 ft. levels were heavily drawn upon. Be-
sides, arrangements should be made to obtain
a converter before making another start,
because of the heavy cost of realising on a
semi-crude product like 30 p.c. matte.
* * *
The hero of the Edna Central meeting
held in Melbourne to hear Frank Were,
William Orr and manager Dickie Williams
turned out to be ruddy Fred Holst, the
broker. Frank Were did the enthusing,
” "liam Orr the oiling, and Williams the
truth-telling. But they didn’t shake off Holst’s
grip when he started to worry out why
assays that went up to 400 s. crumbled in
the battery to 525. The story that the
stone came from the drives was rent in twain
when he exclaimed: “Eleven hundred tons
from the drives in a month, Mr. Chairman—
rayther good driving that, eh? No, the
trouble with this mine is that the battery
doesn’t live up to the assays.’’ The echo of
his remarks was the thud with which shares
fell in the next 24 hours.
* * * *
“Dolor’’: Just now the most prosperous
industry in Kalgoorlie is goldstealing. At
the annual meeting of the Chamber of Mines
vice-president Black much under-estimated
things when he said that the Golden Mile
alone lost £lOO,OOO a year. The reasons
are three: (1) Bad state of the law; (2)
bad eyesight and hearing of the police; (3)
the local public’s applause for the man who
gets money anyhow.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) is having its
mill on the Lake View Consols overhauled
and remodelled, and will resume full-time
crushing in a week or two. Meantime
Chaffers reserves, which Vail, of Lake View,
estimated at 93,000 tons, worth 265. (ex-
tractable value), are being got ready for the
battery. Besides what the Chaffers has in
sight there are makes of good ore aggregat-
ing nearly 1000 ft. in length at the 2100 ft.
level of the Consols lease. Last year’s costs
averaged 21s. 6d., but the improvements now
being made to the treatment plant are
expected to chip a bit off this figure, as
well as give a higher percentage of extrac-
tion.
* * * #
Actually Jumbunna Coal, Gippsland,
earned a profit last half-year. But the
£1421 made only covers the losses for the
previous term, when Labor troubles and
other curses cut down the rrntput. Without
a big tonnage no coal pit can pay; and
though the yield has been got up to 19,528
tons, production was still too small to put
the co. on to the dividend list. Now it has
its north section sealed up through fire, so
that the drain is all on the east section
bords. To get the men back into the north
workings may be a costly job; and as the
Coal Employees’ Federation wants more
pay, trade will have to be a lot
brisker if the bank debit isn’t to grow.
* * * *
W. H. Cundy, Bendigo’s geological sur-
veyor, has been summarising the mining posi-
tion of the goldfield. Where a few years
ago 100 mines were operating, there are
only 40 now. About 15 mines on the New
Chum line are full of water to within 400 ft.
of the surface, and there are only two mines
at work on the line —Catherine Reef and
Williams’ United. Victoria Quartz mine
is down to 4600 ft. and another to
4285 ft., most of this work having been done
during what Cundy calls “the deep-sinking
craze of 25 years ago.” During that mid-
summer madness if a reef was found unpay-
able when struck in the crosscut it was
very often left unprospected and shaft-sink-
ing was resumed. As many of the mines
did not possess crushing batteries low grade
material was frequently left, and therefore
many reefs were not given a fair trial. The
chief causes of the present decadence of
Bendigo are: (1) Modern economic methods
in regard to mining and machinery were not
introduced; (2) shafts too small for eco-
nomic working; (3) death of the old pio-
neers ; (4) laws, higher wages, higher prices
of materials; (5) the war; (6) failure of
companies to pursue progressive working
policies, or to establish reserve funds when
on gold; (7) laxity in collecting calls. To
these reasons the deep-sinking craze may
be properly appended as No. 8. Cundy gives
a fund of interesting details about both the
main and so-called side lines of reef. The
saddest sentence is that stating that one
company which had yielded considerably over
£500,000 in dividends recently paid away its
reserve fund of £4OO0 —as a dividend ! He
suggests the formation of large cos. to work
favorable localities with larger capital and
bigger areas.
• * * *
Stockyard Creek, Foster (Vic.), is on
the verge of revenue-producing. The dis-
trict once upon a time had a real mine
financed by a boom-busted bank, but when
the liquidators let others come in, Foster
as a gold-producer went out. Now the old
cemented stuff is to be hammered at by the
Stockyard Creek Co. The wash is about
2Jft. thick and pretty tight dirt at that. No
one.knows the area of alluvial available, but
for a start a five-head battery is to pound
away at it.
* * * •
According to latest advices the Mount
John and Bicheno coal cos., which have
shows on the Tasmanian East Coast, are
going to knock Newcastle before long. They
have just agreed to amalgamate and try to
float a new co. with a working capital of at
least £60,000. The Mount John people have
got ready for the boom by increasing their
capital from £240 to £4BO. It is alleged that
Mount John has seams varying from Bft. to
12ft. thick, and that the Bicheno has one
which is estimated from surface indications
to be 30ft. thick. The quality is said to be
excellent, and 30 tons are being cut out for
a test. Coal was worked in this part of
Tas. as far back as 60 years ago, but what
was the good’ er botherin’?


Charles
Heidsieck's
Vintage 1906
QMflPfltl
ME PLUS ULTijq
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A Good Corn
Remover.
Those who suffer from corns and hard skin
on the soles of the feet w'll find it a great
boon to apply a little Atla Resin to the corn,
which, w r hen applied to the corn or hard skin,
and a little covering of cotton wool on the
the top to prevent it sticking to the stocking,
will remove the corn in a day or two. The
Atla Resin seems to act by getting thor-
oughly into complete contact with the corn,
and thus being able to penetrate it, and not
to act on the surface only. It is certainly
the latest cure for these troublesome and
painful structures, and, according to all re-
ports by those who have used it, one of the
best.* [2
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Eb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 10, 1910.
My Dear Abini. —
The rumble of motor-cars heralded “the
brilliant and distinguished company” (ride
subsequent speeches) that amused itself at
Daceyville on Saturday afternoon. The
undistinguished visitors, having arrived early
by tram, had opportunity to contemplate the
beautiful homes, with everything laid on
from electric light to green velvet lawns,
which the taxpayer provides at 225. (id. or so
a week for the favored tenants, give to
them that have is not a new game. So, pass-
ing by the mean streets and neglected'
urchins of Chippendale, the Daceyville
Housing Board and Mrs. Holman arranged
to tell stories to the prosperous kiddies of
the petted garden suburb.
Town Clerk Nesbitt waited betimes on
the pleasant sand dune outside the little
sc hool-house. Then the distinguished com-
pany emerged from a line of cars. . There
vvere Lord Mayor Meagher, with his wife
on his arm (she’s a victim to rheumatism
and had to take the sandy knoll by inches),
Mrs. Holman (in cream, with a blue velvet
windmill toque), Louise Mack (temporarily
buried behind a white gossamer), J. D.
Fitzgerald and Julius Superbus Knight in
the blue sac suit of a well-preserved elderly
gentleman out for an afternoon’s airing. The
youngsters having been rounded up, J. D.
Fitzgerald introduced the company, and
then Mrs. Holman and Louise Mack and
Julius Knight read or yarned, and the Lord
Meagher pointed aloft and told the kiddies
that that’s where their great benefactor, J.
R Dacey, lived. For this assurance Simon
Hickey, M.L.A., returned thanks. As son-
in-law to the late Dacey, the poetic Simon
wears a distinct halo when he gets amongst
the local flower beds.
The first Anzac Day meeting simmered
gently in the stifling Town Hall vestibule.
A buzz of interest and a few tears pattered
down on the knitting when Sydney’s boyish
Dean was speaking. Albert Edward Talbot
is a Man since he tasted Turkish lead in
Gallipoli. His little story of the still-
cheery Australian in his last agony on a
hospital ship was the star turn of the
gathering. “The moon shone on the
Sea as our mortally wounded tried to join
in the chorus ‘lt’s a Long Way to Tip-
perary’ ! If you had seen our boys then
you would feel that nothing we can do is
good enough for our Anzacs.”
The vice-regal Stanleys are due on a visit
to the G.-G. Fergusons about April 15.
This is the lady’s first trip to the Ma
State. A.D.C. Conant, wounded early in
the war. has been hurrying around Tas-
mania with a fishing-line ; and if he doesn’t
come with the party, it will be Victor Hood.
Melba came and went in shrouded silence.
She was in no mood to chat, and hurried
on to Melbourne. Son George and daughter-
in-law Eileen Armstrong were at the wharf:
and John Lemmon# was also in waiting.
Later Melba will come this way to sing for
the Red Gross. Meantime her thoughts are
with old Dad.
Lady Munro Ferguson, with nis Ex. a lap
ahead, went through Rose Hall the other
wet morning. Maimed Bananaland war-
riors, trailing their wings homeward, were
the guests of honor. The G.-G. having-
reeled off the usual remarks of welcome,
voluntary aids —an impressive army at this
haven—passed round heavy supplies of solid
food.
Admiral Wemyss (you remember him as
captain of the Cambrian when that vessel
was in our Harbor) has written to a friend
he left behind him. Naturally he had
something to say of his share of the per-
formance of the shifting 40,000 men from
Suvla Bay; but that’s not a story for such
a gossip as you. Yet here’s one anecdote
from the letter. There had been an armis-
tice for the burial of dead, and the Turks —
of whom the Admiral has much good to say
—had dug a great pit into which they piled
their fallen. A tall, handsome Abdul walked
solemnly to the edge of the pit. took off his
fez and said in a loud voice: “God reward
all brave soldiers and damn all politicians.”
The Tom Dibbs family has been thrown
into mourning by the death of T. B. Gaden,
of the old law firm of Cape, Kent and Gaden.
He was 53 years of age, a native of Albury,
and a son of that T. B. Gaden who was for
many years assistant manager of the Com-
mercial Banking Company of Sydney. Mrs.
Dibbs is an aunt.
Alexandra Hospital for sick kiddies had
its annual meeting last week. It caught the
G.-G. and his tall lady for the event. Like
other hospitals, the flower-edged Alexandra
feels the pinch of war-time, and has to
suffer the shortage of stethoscopes that goes
with the call to arms. After secretary Moss
had told of these sorrows the Fairguson rose
to the occasion.
The Red Cross Club rooms resounded with
the click of knitting needles as those present
settled down the other day to. hear Mr.
Preston’s story of ambulance-driving. The
Australian had started on a globe-trotting
expedition when the bolt fell from the Prus-
sian Blue. Then he offered a motor-ambu-
lance to the British Red Cross, and asked to
be allowed to drive it. Eventually he worked
—on bully beef and cheese —behind the
French firing line, till illness drove him home
for a spell. That’s the thing that’s told for
the public ear. For the private ear Mr.
Preston could tell of the horde of thieves
that infest the roads from London and Paris
to the firing lines. When he first went
across with his car from London he didn’t
actually sleep in it, so almost every part
that wasn’t nailed down was stolen. VS hen
he arrived on the French side he simply had
to turn back and have the vehicle refitted.
Behind the lines it is nearly as bad —and
Mr. Preston speaks with the experience of a
man who knows what business, robbery, etc.
is He made a fortune out of tinned milk.
After he had told his story Miss Onslow,
the Camden Park lady, murmured a few
inaudible remarks (presumably thanks), and
the company fell back on light refreshments.
S. C. U. Smith is the big British gunner
who is responsible for the reorganisation of
Australian artillery in the war zone —a re-
organisation which has thrown brigade com-
mittees into wild confusion. In 1915 he
was Brigadier-General and Inspector of R.H.
and R.F.A. He’s the man. you remember,
who was “lent” to N. S. Wales just before
the Boer war.
General Finn is having a hurried look-
round the Walter Hall Trust interests in
Bananaland. He taps Brisbane, Mount
Morgan and Rockhampton with inquiries.
The man of the moment who lately blasted
a Zeppelin from the clouds is well known in
Wellington (M.L.) as “Tubby” Brandon,
and he owns the front name of De Bathe,
and got the top of his law-learning at
Oxford. He became a flier soon after the
Struggle started, and is the second M.L.
aviator to reap results. Will Rhodes Moor-
house, a Wellington airman, got a V.C. and
lost his life in France last year. He was
the grandson of the famous Barney Rhodes,
the millionaire whaler, and the son of that
whaler’s half-caste daughter and her husband
Edward Moorhouse. In his later years old
Barney induced a Moorhouse lady;—a fine
flower of civilisation—to become his second
wife. It was her brother who married the
half-caste maiden. Young W. R. Moorhouse
was a handsome young quarter-caste. A
year before his fatal drop from the clouds he
had inherited from the second Mrs. Barney
Rhodes, who was his mother’s devoted step-
mother, somewhere about a quarter of a mil-
lion. A very young widow and an infant
will do some inheriting.
Another war wedding concerning these
zones was recorded in London when Captain
Shawe, one of the Liverpools’ ex-Aides.
annexed Miss Chris Grigg, daughter of
“Johnnie” Grigg, the racing runowner of
Longbeach, Canterbury (M.L.). The
’groom, who was part of General Godley's
staff at Gallipoli, was returned damaged, and
will help at the War Office during his cure.
The Mat. Harris family is on the move.
Bert, the youngest, leaves this week to join
an elder brother who has been in khaki for
months. The latter is a surgeon with the
R.A.M.C.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and her daughters
came home in the Niagara. When the big
liner goes out again, Mrs. Harry Rickards
and Mrs. 11. D. Mclntosh will be on board.
The Red Cross has said “Yes. please,” to
William Houston’s offer of a motor. He won
it in an Australia Day Art Union (there
are, it seems, people who win prizes), and
now generously passes it back.
The Islingtons’ only chick, daughter Joan,
is too busy to worry about debutante’s frills
this year. When the family was in M.L.
Joan wore her hair down her back. Now
it’s tucked up under a junior nurse’s mil-
linery in a big London hospital.
A Mudgee man, Sapper Ernest Tubben-
hauer, of the Ist Field Engineers, has
secured his Best Girl. She is Dorothy
Porter, of Lowestoft (Eng.). Tom Brown,
M.L.A., is an uncle of the ’groom, who was
in the landing on April 25.
Mrs. Nelson Clover (she used to be Ger-
trude Kidman, and is the cattle-man’s
daughter) sees her husband occasionally. His
chief address is the North Sea, and he’s on
11.M.5. , so there you are! The
Australian woman is living at Torquay. A
cousin. Elsie, who married since the war
started, is mostly with her husband’s people
in Wales.
The “Kilburn Sisters,” an Anglican Order
of nuns who run schools and orphanages in
all the Australian States except Queensland,
are in mourning for their founder, R. C.
Kilpatrick, who passed out in England
recently after a good innings of 93. The
deceased parson's initials didn’t stand for
“Roman Catholic,” though that is what “Low
Church” Anglicans insist that lie ought to
have been. A sister of Justice Rich, of the
High Court, is a member of the Order, sta-
tioned in Sydney.
Artist George Coates is now a proud cor-
poral, and Vernon Lorimer, another Austra-
lian brush-man, is a full private.
“Snowy” Baker sends a record of the
cash distribution from the Light Horse Fund
Carnival. Everything has been divided
except £274, which is in the Savings Bank-
waiting for the 12th Light Horse to take
form in Egypt.
Jessie Triggs, who said “I will!” to Lieut.
Hector Reid at Yass a few days ago, is the
eldest daughter of A. B. Triggs, the ex-bank
manager who was nearly becoming the
Sheep King once. Miss Jessie, by the way,
was the first Australian girl to get permis-
sion to drive a motor-car in London. That’s
when she was touring most of the world in
her Rolls Royee. Her new husband is off
on the usual errand.
The 2nd D.A.C. (Divisional Ammunition
Column) committee is up against a tough
proposition. Already this strenuous band
of workers has sent eight cases of goods
to their little lot. Now, they're waiting for
news (a common complaint) before they
gum a label on the 9th consignment.
There’s apparently a 2nd D.A.C. still ; but
so many of those who left with the D.A.C.
have been transferred to something else that
Mrs. Ballantine, the mother of the workroom
in Falmouth Chambers, has to rally the
drooping spirits of her mystified helpers.
All round there have been so many changes
that the War Chest will probably have to
pool a lot of the stuff that is now being got
ready.
Vigorous Donald Fraser, inspector of
schools and big-hearted lover of the Austra-
lian kiddie, is mourning the death of one he
loved even better than most. His eldest
daughter, Gertrude—a brainy Australian, too
. —showed signs of heart trouble four or five
months ago; and the end came swiftly last
week. There is sympathy waiting for the
big father from Tweed Heads to Tibooburra.
Mrs. Edward Wrench, who earlier in life
was Mrs. C. L. Throckmorton, of Mel-
bourne, has married another of her girls,
Mabel Augusta Pearson Throckmorton, into
an Irish peerage. The new son-in-law is
Viscount Frankfort de Montmorency—Wil-
loughby John Horace de Montmorency, if
you said it all. And no chicken, either. The
marriage was solemnised —beautiful word
that —by the Rev. W. 11. Davies, at St
Paul’s, Onslow Square. Mrs. Wrench still
claims Caradon, Woollahra, as her Sydney
home. It was only last year that a daughter
was married to a member of the Duke of
Leinster’s family.
The G.-G. declined the invitation to open
the Easter show. He did it last year, and
cuts himself down to one such performance
iu each State. This is part of the routine
the Chieftain maps out for himself. It’s oy
way of keeping the Governors’ Union in
smooth working order.
The Anzac Buffet lady-helps, under Miss
Evans, have the necessary authority to raffle
their big war-map. As returned soldiers
drifted in to this cheery cave under the old
Education Offices, they scribbled their signa-
tures on the scenes of their late adventures.
Over 1000 names sprawl across Gallipoli and
adjacent fighting ground. This memorial is
to be a money-spinner for the Anzacs.
On Thursday night the Liberal and som«
other kinds of North Sydneyites gave coffee
and cakes and a watch on parting with
Brother-Lib. Fred Fleming, who has got into
khaki and tan boots. There was music on
the catalogue, and Mayor Anderson steered
the ceremony from the stage. Private Flem-
ing was a candidate at the last Willoughby
election when John Haynes persuaded the
people to let him save them.
The French-Australian League met in its
big workroom at Macdonell House the other
afternoon. Mrs. Playoust, in the chair,
dressed the usual questions with the polite
French frill. “Is it your will and
pleasure?” Miss Soubeiran read a few
snacks of gratitude from her suffering com-
patriots ; and Miss Gurney put in her
learned thumb and pulled out a plum for
the N.S.W. school-kiddie. In the small-
est way-back schools the youngster is a
steady worker for the war orphans of splen-
did France. Even boys are bursting forth
as needlewomen. The urchin who sent an
“embroidered” baby’s bib (his own effort)
from the hack of the sunset is likely to be an
imperishable memory in the League's sewing
circle.
Major Blythe, a Maorilander in “ti lP
Gloucesters,” lias been, more or less in th
war zone since the lirst day the wild beast
got loose. To date he has come throueh
with nothing worse than an occasional break
down from overwork. A brother A r
Blythe, sits all day as a voluntary worker
in the Amelioration Committee’s pay-room
in Sydney. 1
Waverley’s youngest ex-alderman Tack
Playfair, has just got his captaincy. ‘i 1(1
earned it at Gallipoli. Twice wounded he
is now preparing for a third round with
the enemy. The Sydney man left here in
1914 as a dashing lieutenant (he is a tall
good-looking Cornstalk) with the Permanent
F.A., under Colonel Sid Christian, and is
saying good-hye again with the 3rd Division
of the field guns. n
Evelyn Mackellar came down St. James’s
aisle with Wallace Hayes the other evening.
The petite bride’s white coat and skirt were
one of the season’s latest cuts (and the
flared skirt takes some cutting), with a
fluffy edge of swansdown. Swansdown is in
again, though for years we chiefly knew.it in
powder puff's. The bridegroom handed his
little girl some diamonds and a set of furs.
Dorothy Ellis was chief bridesmaiden, and
a small niece of Wallace Hayes held up the
tail of the procession. The bride’s father
manages the Bank of N. S. Wales at Hal-
main. The cake was cut at the Australia.
Verbrugghen’s first orchestral concert of
the present group bumped against rival
shows on Saturday afternoon. Still, it
caught Excellency Helen and the “cult,’’’and
what more does a music-maker want?
Chaplain-Captain Boyer, of the Bexley
family, recently conducted Phyllis Small, a
dainty damsel from Drummoyne, through the
wedding service. Chaplain Prescott did
most of the talking. The bridal frock was
draped with gossamery Limerick. The rest
was mostly khaki, the second-best man being
R. F. Boyer, an invalid from the Front.
The J.C.W. matinee on April 13 is for
Anzac Day. It's going to produce a pro-
gramme of such length and breadth that
Hugh Ward says “it can’t be done again.”
At the heavyweight end of the menu there’s
a sirloin called “The Sacrament of Judas.”
It has a shuddery sound, and Julius Knight,
with Frank Harvey and Lizette Parkes, will
attend to the shudders.
Robert Pollock’s sudden end—he was
found dead in bed—followed the return of
a son from the Front. The whole family
were off to Hobart for the soldier’s wedding
to Miss Stanfield.
The Women Painters are taking down
their wares in the Education Palace gal-
leries. At best an Art Show has only
Buckley’s chance of success just now. Still
the palette ladies kept up their spirits, and
as a final flutter passed round the fatted
cream-puff at a musical at home.
Lance-corporal Markcrow, A.M.C., was
married to Madge Irwin at Leichhardt last
w r eek. The tradesman responsible, Arch-
deacon Martin, had tried a more or less
prentice hand on the bride’s parents in the
long ago. He made a good job of it, and
thus got the family’s patronage.
One of the last bright lads to leap from
trench to altar and back again is Lieut.
Gordon R. Mitchell, 13th Battalion, who in
the first week in May will face the parson
instead of the poison-gas. Miss Elsie M.
Bortliwick will give him her moral support.
She is a pretty bud that grew on an In-
verell rose-bush. Soon after the ceremony
the bridegroom will again depart for some
place quite as unknown to the Censor as to
the rest of us.
John Brownlow’s concert party was care-
fully picking its way on a dark night to
the military camp at Milson Island.
While waiting for the launch. John heard
a splash. “Great Heavens, I’ve lost m.v
bag!’’ said an indignant voice. A soldier
thought he’d make sure. Then by the light
of a lantern held over the water the company
saw the wet face of pianist Phillips bobbing
up in the current. As the partially sub-
merged was hauled out, the same _ voice
remarked: “Thank goodness, it wasn't my
bag!”
Dr. Morgan Martin’s daughter Marjorie
whisks a voluntary broom in a Grosvenor
Place (London) hospital for the wounded.
A former Sydney man, Ernest E. Bishop,
now in khaki on the other side, was
recently wed to a daughter of the late
Colonel Madden, of a Zomerzet Infantry
regiment.
The Women’s Horticultural Guild Las
secured a space at the coming Show. This
ought to be a thumping advt. for the home-
grown radish and other fruits of the back
garden. At a recent corroboree the tactful
Mrs. Bertram Stevens, who isn’t likely to
rub any horticultural ladies the wrong way.
was elected president. Miss Wells is the
newly-chosen hon. sec.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
■V'v.
n s > 'XX X . - , v .
XXXX *?lj ■ ¥ a ■".: ■ks,v : ; ; ■
~:kX- : X\v'. XXii - 'XXX-XXi-,'
>x m^ N; >xsxxx : .:,
; : '-M
SXxXXx -x>, ■;, x ' s X ' x - -
>... xx X,^%XX&Xi
".•'■'•••
XXXXXXiXXVXXXXXXX .v
v-.'v- -XvK-kfvv ■■«•- :
r -;. : ' '
-';X V:: x. -"x • XXX.
' -rnmmmamm
SS^^sSSSsSSesSf
;X»:-:
XX
V
ssJSSP^
xxxx-
til
X
I
V'
XX;:
.
iSSI
m
k SXfXXx
Wiil*S|||^|jji|
xx
XX
SB3s®W#i#S'
XX'
ift
XX"
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Works a London
Searchlight too ;
When the flying
Huns go by,
Chunder lights the
Shudd’ring sky.
When he finds the
Mark, the guns
Fline their metal
At the Huns ;
Then their great
Propellers whine
As they fly from
“COBRA” shine.


Prices
from
22/6
1
Men's Coat Sweaters
SEASONABLE GARMENTS
FOR EASTER VACATION.
They are just the Garments needed for
vacation days, and the prices are distinctly
economical and lower than those usually
associated with such a high standard of
quality.
Produced by leading Scottish Mills in well-
spun, long-yarn Wool. They are made to
button up the front like a vest, and may be
obtained in Grey, Sage and Heather shades;
also in White.
Dhest measure—
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 45in.
Prices 22/6 25/- 27/6 30/-
Carriage Free to Any Part of Australia.
FARMER'S. SYDNEY.
Pitt. Market and George Streets.
- rr
Hv*-
• '
i : * , j J . tMfftSgl
■
I
j m ln
NoTyreTroubles
fof Months!
Is the happy experience
of thousands of Motorists
who have their cars
shod with Australian-made
UNIOP
TYRES
The great strength, fine
quality and extra care
taken in their manufacture
—in addition to the fact
that every “Dunlop” is
specially made to with-
stand hard work on our
rough roads —is the reason
these reliable tryes always
give superior service—
furthermore the first cost
of “Dunlops” is less than
the imported article —
whilst their running cost is
infinitely more economical.
Always use “ Dunlops,” it pays!
• * *
OBTAINABLE ALL GARACES.
Illustrated List on Application.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
{Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
Melbourne
Brisbane
Sydney
Christchurch
Adelaide
Wellington
Perth
Launceston
i
m
m
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, April 10, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Governor Stanley, along with a number
of other leisured sportsmen, lately received a
permit to shoot quail or poets in the Yan
Yean reservoir region. But the permits
have how been repealed. Small hoi's, it
appears, have been potting small* .game
in the vicinity," and some of it has escaped
in a mortally wounded condition, only to die
later above the stuff Melbourne mixes with
its whisky and boils in the kettle. And in
this democratic country what a small boy
may not do a Governor may not do either.
Brigadier-General Fred Hughes is coming
back to Melbourne after a year on service.
Lately he took his turn in hospital, and the
sea-trip has beqn prescribed to put the
finishing-touches on his convalescence.
Hughes left Melbourne as a lieut.-colonel.
In peace times he is a citizen of retiring
disposition whose chief part in public affairs
has been in connection with St. Kilda’s
drains and culverts. He was then mostly
known to the multitude as the husband of
Eva Hughes, high priestess of the political
A.W.N.L. But these times Mrs. Eva’s light
burns but dimly beside that of her returning
general.
Sometimes the dead do come to life again.
Lately it was reported that Wilfrid Hilary
had paid the biggest price any country can
ask of its patriot sons. But at latest Hilary
was in camp at Helmieh, and he goes so far
as to assert that he never was dead.
Captain T. G. (“Pat”) Leary, of Sandring-
ham (Vic.), who bandaged behind our firing
line until he was invalided to England, has
been visiting his native Ireland, accompanied
by Captain F. H. Tubb, the Australian V.C.
who was growing sheep in North-East Vic-
toria when war broke out. The pair endured
a civic reception and the local brass band
blew in their ear. Whenever speech-time
came round, Tubb told the Irishmen lots
about Australia and sheep, but could never
be persuaded to talk about Lonesome Pine
or the deed that brought him the
Cross. Both soldiers are due back in Aus-
tralia this month. Leary married one of the
Brighton Menzies and left wifie and a baby
to wait for him when he started for Galli-
poli.
When some officers’ wives were being
officially shooed out of Egypt and others
were forbidden to land, a few resourceful
Australians got over the difficulty by
clinging to the Red Cross. Kathleen
McPherson, who married young Knox, was
one of the stayers. But there’s been no end
of growling about the haughty manner in
which some of the honorary workers have
been handing out the gifts, and many a sick
Jimbil has sworn he’ll never accept another
thing from the same quarter.
Mrs. Stewart Balmain —the Fairbairn
heiress —was denied her trip to husband and
London in the beginning of the year by three
peremptory cables which instructed her not
to leave Australia before April. Now April
is here and the plump young matron is
determinedly packing up her own and the
kiddies’ things for another attempt to dodge
the torpedoes and reach the other side. The
Major-husband is doing something in the
War Office.
The members of the Stock Exchange have
been giving the glad hand to Lieutenant
Staniforth Ricketson, D.C.M., of the 15th
Battalion. Staniforth was one of the young-
est members before he tracked for Egypt.
The D.C.M. was earned on the day of the
Gallipoli landing, when he went out under
heavy fire to rescue Lieutenant Derham —
brother of the Ivew family. He had nothing
to say about his own exploit, but almost sang
an ode in praise of his late cousin, son of Hal
Sheppard, who was killed in action. Day
after the ’Change greeting, Ricketson was
married to Gwen Brown at Hawkesburn,
Colonel Wanliss giving the bride away. The
bridegroom says he woudn’t have been there
if her photograph hadn’t stopped the Turkish
bullet that was flying straight at his heart.
The dear girl!
A hint from fighting headquarters. Don't
xvash the tussore silk shirts and underwear
before sending them away. The tussore,
it appears, is a far better protection in its
original unlaundered state.
The military chiefs have abruptly shut
down the foodery run by Sassiety at Head-
quarters in St. Kilda-road. It was osten-
sibly for the wounded returned soldiers who
had business at the Barracks, and to keep
it going “patriotic dinners” were eaten by
all the best people in all the best places at
half a sovereign a mouth. It was the sort
of good work all thoughtful eaters smacked
their lips over. The fair and well-fed organ-
isers are now left with a certain amount of
food and capital on their hands. It wasn’t
their fault that the place became a
resort of departmental clerks and nice
young men in mufti who seemed to
have the entree. The ladies say they
are sure the plainclothes customers
would have been only too pleased to pay.
But, unfortunately, these consumers of Fund
food were not asked to pay, and they didn’t
insist on doing the fair thing. So the free
restaurant has ceased fire by order.
Melbourne Hospital is asking for old linen
and woollens. Will Red Cross workers send
along washed parcels, addressed to the Lady
Superintendent? y,
Our Adelaide cousin takes the cover off
her typewriter:—
We closed the week with another button day—-for
trench comforts this time. Result was well over
£l3OO. Regimental colors were everywhere, and
soldiers were always willing buyers, more especially
those back from the firing-line. They knew how
badly their mates wanted bottles of sauce, tins of
sardines, and other extras.
From France comes news of the death in action of
Lieut. Milo Oudmore, a son of Mrs. D. Cudmore, of
Victor Ha*bor. The lad went from St. Peter’s to
Oxford, where he took his 8.A., and enlisted as
soon as the war broke out. He had been in the
trenches since February of last year, first with a
field battery and afterwards in command of a bat-
tery of trench mortars. He was wounded in the
attack on Loos in August, and was afterwards men-
tioned in despatches and awarded the Military Cross.
There were races at Victoria Park on Saturday,
with good weather, some biggish dividends, and a
moderate attendance. The Governor was safely at
sea during the meeting.
Town-planner Reade begins his two months’ work
here on April 17. Meanwhile it would be worth our
while to look about for another expert who can tell
us how to make our country more comfortable. The
towns can look after themselves.
The Sandfords leave us by Monday’s express for
Sydney, and were farewelled by the Cheer-Up Society
a day or so ago. Said that there is to be another
shuffling of the military chiefs, and that our new
Commandant, Major Darvall, will most likely be
succeeded by Colonel Rowell, who fought in South
Africa.
Ex-Adelaidean J. C. Moulden has won the Silver
Medal of the Royal Society of Arts and the Peter
Le Neve Foster Prize for a paper on “Zinc: Its
Production and Industrial Application.” He is
managing the Central Zinc Co.’s works at Seaton
Carew, in Durham, England. Before that he was
at the Sulphide Corporation’s works in Newcastle;
and with all the latter’s strikes he’ll tell you he’d
rather have its labor than any he can get in England
for the smelting job. In fact, most English workmen
won’t look at • it, and when the war started nearly
half the men at Seaton Carew were either Belgians
or Germans.
Certain toy brandy-bottles sold in Adelaide streets
at a recent patriotic collection moved the Women’s
Intemperate Christian Union to protest to the Chief
Secretary. The idea was that Accursed Drink was
being openly retailed contrary To law. The Commis-
sioner of Police, being called on to- report, thought
the Licensing Act was hardly meant to apply to toy
advertisements, about the size of one’s little finger,
and holding perhaps a teaspoonful. It does seem like
bringing a mosquito under the Wild Birds Protection
Act.
Most of the late Defence Minister Fred-
erick Sargood’s family is anchored in Aus-
tralia by either business or marriage, and
finds its own country good enough. But the
Sargood widow, having retired from Rippon
Lea some years ago, returned to her native
land, and was living in London when the
war began. Since then she has been heard
of as performing various useful or ornamen-
tal deeds in connection with the disturbance,
and the newspapers duly take notice, with
kind references to Australia. She is also
doing useful work with a cheque-book and
personal attendance in certain soldiers’ in-
stitutions. It all helps—particularly the
cheque-book.
The Naval College at Jervis Bay buzzes
with praise off the grit of young Eric Boyd.
A boat from the College was between three
and four miles out when a squall struck and
capsized it. After seeing all but one of the
crew perched on the wreck, Boyd started a
long swim, but cramps turned him back.
Trying again he struggled ashore, then did a
five-mile hurry to the College, and took a
rescue boat out. It picked up two survivors ;
two others had fallen off. The motor-car
that crashed into Dr. Hugh Boyd at Ben-
digo and killed him might at least have held
off for a month. A plucky father seems
somehow entitled to read such things of his
son before he goes.
Rider Haggard is in Melbourne. I know,
because I heard him laugh. He came over
from Hobart, where he was given a shake-
down by the vice-regal Macartneys. The
day he left the Stanley pair were welcomed
as visitors to the picturesque castlet.
Port Melbourne’s new pier makes the
third in a row. The far end of it is fenced
off for military use, and the main part is
decorated with a fine steel two-storey struc-
ture which swallows, or disgorges passengers
at upper deck level. It makes it possible
for a literary girl to see notabilities off or
watch them arrive without being playfully
butted by shunting goods-trains. It will be
quite strange to visit the Port without being
breathed upon and threatened by heavy
locomotives.
Is Melbourne really as slow as its enemies
assert? A citizen the other day gathered a
mushroom that had squeezed its way from
under the Swanston-street pavement outside
the Town Hall. Sisters, lift your feet and
see if the grass is growing under them !
Chia, the Chinese who married Unie Rus-
sell, shot at his Consul and got into gaol,
may have his sentence heavily sub-edited for
good conduct. At first he was put to work
gardening at Pentridge; but he afterwards
got a clerical job, and at present is engaged
listing prison stores. When he is released
he is to be deported, and it is said that a
good billet awaits him in China.
Since the days when the eldest daughter
and her Yallange used to make a hit in the
Brough type of play, the Madden family
has had a sort of weakness for the boards.
In the old days, Lesly used to be given a
small walking-on part; but she has now
become the family’s leading lady by effluxion
of time. The next venture will be a patri-
otic matinee at King’s Theatre on Saturday,
May 13. The Madden dame is president,
the piece “Green Stockings,” and the lime-
light is Resly’s for the afternoon. Harry
Hill will stage manage, as in the old Yal-
lange days.
Since the Women’s Political Donkey has
settled down in its new stall in Latrobe-
street, after various tenancies in less satis-
factory stables, it‘has quite blossomed out
as a social flutterer. Of old a paper by
Mary Fullerton on some such subject as
Why We Do It, or a reading from (say)
the Statesman’s Handbook by Vida Gold-
stein, kept the W.P.A. together. Now the
concern is much gayer. It was so gay at a
recent party that during the last crowded
hour of the evening an area of ceiling
plaster was joggled off and bounced among
the assorted brains below. The entertain-
ment had apparently been designed to
rassure Russia as to the political ladies’.
war-attitude, for the principal guests were
Russian citizens. Fortunately none of them
were damaged. Since certain members of the
Ass. have lately been inclined to exceed the
free-speech limit regarding military matters,
a killed or concussed Russian would un-
doubtedly have called for a deal of explana
tion.
Clarence Weber and Rice are showing
some of their crack Health and Strength
College pupils, including girl Amazons, at
the Auditorium, on Thursday, 13th. These
physical-development schools deserve all pos-
sible encouragement, if only because they are
places where, for a modest war-fee, short,
narrow-chested young men can get them-
selves lengthened and expanded to the regu-
lation minimums.
Lieutenant Jack Chisholm, brother of
Sheila, is engaged to Miss M. Giles, daughter
of the Gileses, of Darling Point, Sydney.
Just now she is a voluntary nurse, and he is
away fighting.
Billson, M.L.A., disposed of daughter
Belle recently to Lieutenant Alex. Miller,
A.1.F., son of the Alex. Millers, of Berwick.
Parson Hewitt fixed up the transaction at
St. John’s, Toorak, and a quiet little party
celebrated later at the Billsons’ home in
East Malvern. The bride was in ivory
white, snugly hatted in ivory velvet and fur,
and had a bridesmaid with an armful of
loose pink roses. The going-away dress
was nigger-head brown wool, with furs, and
pink-yelvet rosebuds in the neat little hat.
London says that Lieutenant Harry Shaw,
son of the Western District woolgrower, has
been made one with Violet Willis, niece of
Ernest Raleigh. In the days before the
awful Land Boom, the bride’s late grand*
father, squatter Willis, of Koolamurt, was
also a Western District duke.
The stork, unafraid of Zeppelins, deposited
a boy baby on the George Landales’ London
doorstep the other day. Captain George,
who got back into his cavalry clothes last
year, has been doing duty in England ; but if
the youngster howls too loud, he may go to
France and take it out of the Hun.
Margaret Lewis-James (you remember
her as soloist of the Victorian Women's
Choir), who left here about four years ago
to study under Jean de Reszke, is back
again. She is now Mrs. Harold Mellor and _
has become possessed of the nom-de-tune of
Madame Margherita Baldi. She made her
debut at Venice as Mimi in Puccini’s garlic-
flavored opera, and had filled one year of a
three-years’ engagement at Nice when the
Kaiser broke loose and tore up her contract.
Margaret is going to spend a holiday in
Geelong, where her pa edits the old-estab-
lished ’Tiser, if she can stand the furious
life of that city.
A once-prominent politician who knew
David Mitchell well tells of how he did hi
old friend a favor in the long ago. Mitchell
buttonholed him and said “My little girl
Nellie, is to sing at the Masonic Hall. I)r
me a favor, old man, and go in. I want as
many people as I can get to buck her up—
here’s my card for admission.” The poli-
tician, stretching a point for David, dulv
attended amid a pack of anxious relations
and friends, and applauded loudly and
often. When the established Melba made
her first triumphal return the politician met
Mitchell in Collins-street. Melba was to give
her big welcome-home concert in Melbourne
Town Hall that night, and the politician
slily reminded Mitchell of the Masonic Hall
trip. “If you want me to stretch a point
and go in again on your card I’ll do it, old
man,” he said. But there were no cards that
time.
A commercial concern in Melbourne —
Ingram’s—has just given Esther Patterson
a free. hand at a congenial job—painting
panel illustrations of fairy tales for nur-
series and school-rooms. The delighted
Esther says, “I shall do English fairy tales,
of course, because there are no Australian
fairy tales.” But there are. Mrs. K.
Langloh Parker has two books full of them,
and Andrew Lang is responsible for another.
Edward Officer had a Gaud Mayoral open-
ing of his picture show on the 7 th,
and he will be showing and selling until the
20th. On the opening afternoon Luther Gill,
the astute art-dealer from Prahran, acted as
honorary salesman and helped to get off 220
guineas worth of the charming goods.
Officer is giving the spoil to the Red Cross,
and isn’t even deducting expenses. To mata
sure of a good total he has plucked the
best things off his studio walls and marked
them at bargain price*. Nearly a hundred
canvases are only five guineas each A
couple of dozen are catalogued at 10 guineas
and a few soar to higher prices. On t he
first day Herbert Brookes bought £42 worth
of red gums on the Darling, Mrs. Robert
Harper splashed 12 guineas on a scrap of
French river scenery, and Mrs. Brodribb
had some other river gums booked up f or
her Melbourne Mansions flat. Mrs. Douglas
who is down at Menzies on a shopping ex’
cursion, got “Normanby Pastoral”— a lovely
thing—for 18 guineas. Mrs. Neil secured k
patch of Tasmanian summer for 10 guineas
and Mrs. Donald Mackinnon, Miss Currie
and Mr. Outlnvaite dived into the crush
after other bargains.
The Gage hat factories in New York and
Paris cover acres of ground and thousands
of heads. There is one pile of showrooms
12 storeys high, where the finished millinery
is displayed. Now the Gage people are pre-
paring to build dreams in Australia, and all
the chiffon stores in Melbourne are unleash-
ing their millinery stars and instructing them
to study the subject as earnestly as a
divinity student tackles theology.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820 —still going strong
%
3
V/y
Va
L.
C*
V
V
k
<»
'cr
v
1
E
t
«■*
£
4
0
//
■
/
1
I
m
/A
m
k
m
»
tt
1
iy/ti
m
Kit
Colonel Fox-Hunter : “How are you getting on with that new neighbour of yours?”
AI.F.H. : “Oh, splendidly! He is a man of taste.”
Colonel Fox-Hunter (surprised): “What! Has he your passion for antiques?”
M.F.H. (with finality): “He has. He stocks ‘Johnnie Walker’ Red Label in the non-refillable bottle
All the experience of unbroken family management since 1820 is inside every “Johnnie Walker"
non-refillable bottle.
Our policy of liberal anticipation will continue to guarantee the maintenance of “Johnnie Walker”
quality regardless of increased sales. Every drop of Red Label in a non-refillable bottle is over
1 o years old.
guaranteed same quality throughout the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.


\
MARLIN
HIGH-VELOCITY
RIFLES
Four of these famous side-ejecting,
high-power rifles have been added to
our list, and they are well worth
investigating by big-game shooters.
.32 cal. H.V. Rifle, 95/-
.32/40 and .38/55 H.V. Carbines, 90 -
.32/40 and 38/55 H.V. Rifles, 95/-
,33 cal. H.V. Special Rifles, £5/15/-
Sent by mail they cost 4/8 extra, but
the cartridges have to be sent by boat
or rail.
Alcocß Pierce,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
44
99
Underwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods.
New “Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers :
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 66 • tf>
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bis. x 5:n., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/2CO Bock, size 10s x
B§, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin.. post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT w
& RHEUMATIC PIERS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Front & Co.. 229 Strand. London.
The Fisher Track.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
kelliek lines are taut and fast, the
I night is in the sky,
Another night to have and hold and
take unto the heart.
’Tis clear the nets and spread the nets and
leave them out to dry
And speed the silver hoard to town aboard
the fisher cart!
For we have girt the main with cords and
fenced it with our floats,
And tilled our acreage of green, all through
the windy day.
’Tis furl the sail and stow the sweeps and
leave our bonny boats
Adream beside the drowsy pier within the
dreamy bay.
We may not quest the farther out, ’tis ours
to toil and wait
Upon the threshold of the seas, content with
humble things ;
And so we palter on the swell about the
ocean-gate,
For we are vassal to the Land and feel her
leading strings.
The wonder of the starlit space upon the
outer track,
The magic-of-tlie-ocean thrill, which pulses
in the vein,
Set downward with the setting sun, and we
must hurry back ;
The market horse is waiting and is reeving
at the rein.
The fishing-tracks are wild and wet, the
fisher hands are brown,
The fishing wiles are new and strange and
far beyond your ken,
Yet ’tis for us to bring the breath of Ocean
to the town
And spill the treasures of the sea within the
haunts of men.
By strength of arm, by sweat of brow, we
gai-ner for your need,
Nor care we much for kiss or kin nor reck
we much of rank.
For in the strong manila rope we twist the
fisher-creed
And rule as kings within a world that swims
upon a plank.
The glamor of a golden morn, the glitter of
the lights,
The roaring at the harbor gates, the rattle
of the street,
We would not lose the joys we hold nor
barter days for nights;
For while the town is in our ears, the sea
is at our feet—
Clear, strong and unmistakable, we feel the
ocean urge:
The subtle spirit of the sea, a-tugging at our
shoes ;
M hile on a little breeze we find the droning
of the surge
And in the finding learn betimes how much
we had to lose !
And would yon leave the edge of land all in
the happy, air ?
And would,you take the fisher-track to find
the silver Shoal? .
What though we cannot give our all. our all
is ours to share,
And you with, us shall learn to love the ocean
for its soul;
And you shall love the kiss of ropes that
cling about your wrist,
The wind upon your temples and the wave
upon your, hands,
And every little fishing-cord that trembles
in your fist
Will bind your being closer to the ocean
with its strands.
/;
’Tis furl the sail and leave the boats and
take the road to town!
The city flares across the hill, the planets
greet the seas;
Ihe dust upon the fisher-boots is showing
dry and brown ;
And clacks the noisy fisher-cart upon its axle
trees.
Yet never night that shrouds the sea and
never sun that sets
But brings a promise of the winds of morn-
ing keen and fresh ;
And so we leave our richer jovs within the
sighing nets —-
The fisher-hearts are by the sea, entangled in
the mesh! >
MAOBILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Chemical Feeder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS sitting alone in a clean but re-
spectable restaurant, enjoying a plain,
common-place meal when the Reformed
Food Missionary or Chemical Feeder slith-
ered in and sat dow 7 n in front of me. He
had no hair shooting up from his scalp, but
a great deal hanging down from his cheeks
and chin, and he annoyed me extremely—his
face seemed to have been put on upside
down.
Fixing me with his glittering, red-rimmed
eyes, he allowed his red hands to play hide
and seek in and out of his pockets until they
had found for him a case containing a pair
of unnecessary spectacles. These he put
on his nose in a lopsided position. Then
he snapped the case, threw it into one of
the horrible abysses in his clothes, and
KEEPING HIS OWN END VP.
TOURIST: “Aw —tailing of dogs, you know, in England one man sometimes keeps scores
of dogs — aw —for hunting.”
COCKY BROWN ( meditatively): “ Yairs; in the old days the blacks round ’ere used ter
do the same thing. But they’re gettin’ civilised now.”
dredged out some literature which he fingered
lovingly while he bent his gaze on the dinner
I had ordered and intended to pay fox'.
“What have we here?” he sighed.
I threw a protecting arm round the plate
and removed the bread with the other hand.
“This is all mine!” I said. “I’m going to
eat it all myself!”
“Those!” he moaned, pointing at the plate
and ignoi'ing my remark. “Those are
chops!”
“Yes, they’re chops all l'ight —my chops!
And don’t stare at them like that—l don’t
like it!”
“Waste!” he moaned, and turned over his
tracts. “Hori'ible, disgusting waste !”
I rose from my chair and leant over him in
a threatening attitude. “Oh, shut up!” I
said. “It isn’t waste, and I’m not going
to have you sitting and groaning at my
food ! Go away and groan somewhere else!”
I sat down and unfurled my napkin with a
flourish...
But the brute didn’t shift. “I have come
to save you !” he moaned, blinking his gimlet
eyes at me. “I have come to save your”
“Leave my soul alone!” I howled, tearing-
off my napkin again. “You’ve got no more
right to save my soul without first asking
my permission than you have to cut my
hair! Go away and leave my soul alone!”
He shook his head sadly, till it made me
seasick to look at him.
“/ don’t w 7 ant to save your soul,” ( he
groaned ; "I want to save your stomach !”
I sat and stared at him. “Go on !” I said
in a hollow voice.
Instantly his eye lighted up w 7 ith the fire
of enthusiasm, and he inhaled deeply 7. “Ah-
hu!” he gasped, exhaling the air he had got
for nothing.
“Go on!” I implored.
He started to shuffle his tracts in a mad
way. “Show me that rubbish!” he com-
manded, pointing to the dinner. I passed
it over to him jealously and he commenced
to check it feverishly.
“What’s this —chops? Bah! Chops are
the curse of the nation. Potatoes ! Pota-
toes are better! Oh, it’s all wrong —
hideously wrong!” Before I could say a
word he had thrown my dinner out of the
window and was replacing the dirty plates
on the table.
“D—n you!” I howled, for I was very
hungry.
“Nay, nay!” he moaned, raising one hand
like a traffic constable, and closing his eyes
to shut out the sight of my empurpled face
and clutching hands.
“Shut up!” I shrieked. “For ninepence
I’d strangle you where you sit! Go away
while you’re safe!”
He opened his brilliant, rat-like eyes and
looked at me over the superfluous, lopsided
spectacles. “Murder me!” he urged sweetly.
“Go on, friend ! Murder me where I sit! I
am prepared!” The sickening beast!
I shook my fist in his face- —shook it till
my shirt-cuff sounded like a side-drum solo.
And meanwhile I heard myself shouting de-
fiantly: “No I _won’t! I wouldn’t murder
you now, not if you went down on your
hands and knees and prayed me to do it. Go
and commit suicide if you want to die!”
When the time came to sit down again I
felt as ruffled as if I’d been in two gas ex-
plosions and a railway accident.
“When I was young.” he hooted, “I too
used to go on like that!”
I pulled myself together sufficiently to
shake my fist at him again. “I can go on
worse than that!” I proclaimed. “You’ll
find out if you stay here much longer!”
“I am going to stay!” bellowed the Brute.
I was about to commence murdering him
when I recollected that I had passionately
refused to do anything of the kind.
I fell back in my chair beaten. “Go on!
Get it over and go Sway!”
He swallowed some more air with his nose
and wagged at me a fat forefinger like a
sausage. "Young man, have you ever thought
seriously about your food—what it is com-
posed of, and how many units of energy it
provides? Answer me that!”
“I don’t think about food until I'm hungry.
Then 1 get some and eat it.”
“Like a beast of the field !” moaned the
Fool.
“Don’t be insulting! I sit up at the
table and eat it like a human being!”
“I’m not talking about your posture, hoy!
I’m blaming you for not thinking of the
constituents !” lie opened his tract, smacked
his lips and read aloud : “From polenta we
get .SCO units of energy for a penny!”
"I don’t eat it!” I yelled.
He slapped one of his pockets meaningly.
“You will soon !’’ he sneered. And he went
on: “Bread, rice, oatmeal, sugar and mar-
garine—600 units per penny!” This de-
lighted him so much that he put up his face,
closed his eyes and made a sound like a duck
drinking.
"Stop it!” I shouted, grasping the loaf of
bread.
He dived his face into his disgusting tract
and emerged with another prize in his mouth:
“Dried peas, chestnuts and haricot beans—
-550 units peY penny ! Beautiful! Beau-ti-
fuir
I couldn’t restrain myself. “It isn’t beau-
tiful at all! It’s only indigestible! And
stop reading these things out to me, won’t
you !”
But he was 'not to be stopped so easily.
‘Macaroni, 400; potatoes, 350; bacon.
I grasped the bread again—but he went on.
his voice getting louder and shriller each
moment: “Itaisins, parsnips, butter, prunes
and raw”
Bash ! The loaf of bread burst on his fore-
head and filled his awful beard with crumbs.
He calmly picked up the largest fragment
from the floor and shook it at me. “Do you
know 7 how much water this contains?”
“No, and I don’t care! Shut up, will
you ?”
“ Thirty-nine per cent of water! Carbo-
hydrates, 50 per cent; protein, nine per cent.:
minerals one per cent, and fat one per cent.
Think of that!”
“I wrnn’t!”
“Ah. but you should !”
“I tell you I won’t! It would make me
sick to think of such things!” I shook my
fist in his face again. “Order me another
dinner in place of the one you threw avrny!”
He bristled his vegetarian whiskers at me
—a horrible trick of the trade. “I will not!”
he hooted. “That wasn’t a dinner —it was
evil rubbish !”
“Never mind v 7 hat it was! I want some
more of it — quick!”
“Never!” lie opened his tract again and
began to intone in a terrified way: ‘“The
three constituents of food are starches and
sugars, fats and oils and protein!’ ”
I seized the large handbell and rang it
with both hands for five minutes. When
I had quite finished I found a surging mass
of waiters w r rithing before me in anticipa-
tion. Mounting the table I shouted:
“Bring me some starch, some sugar, some
fat and some oil. Fly!” and I waved my
arms at them.
The crowd burst asunder like a shell and
flew 7 in various directions.
The Chemical Feeder balanced his dread-
ful whiskers on his chin and repeated rap-
turously 7 : “Starch, sugar, fat and oil! Oh-h.
beau-ti-ful! Beau-ti-ful!”
I purposely did not break in on his
dream. t
Presently the cloud of waiters flew 7 back
with the ingredients. Dragging in the old.
old doormat I flung it on the table and
heaped and smeared it with the starch, the
sugar, the fat and the oil. Then drawing
my automatic revolver from my hip-pocket
I fitted the black muzzle of it into his
accursed ear and ciied out in a terrible
voice : “Eat it or die !”
Uttering a wolfish howfl he flung himself
on the mat and started to eat it gladly, joy-
ously 7, w 7 hile the horrified waiters hurled
themselves at the door and trampled on one
another to 7 get out. I myself was so over-
come that I tried to drag him off his horrible
meal by the collar; but lie growled, and
snapped at me, and I had to shudder and
look on while he finished it and licked his
chops:
Then, being utterly sick of him, I took
him in my two hands, tore him into small
pieces and dashed him into the wastepaper-
basket. For he w r as, after all, only the evil,
vegetarian spirit of a food article in a six-
penny 7 English magazine.
KODAK.


‘And very,,
nice too!”
w
JA
vH
k * 4
I
■
SMr-
« ipP*
, .. ■ - : " “r*••'•«
v —'' v Y
v> * w ~ ;
*5& Vy H| J
B“^RC.^ RC .
'* j
f^ Se °w £ .
I °n o<>n
Yy
,
■
i
*•;
•X.
■
-
si
<o
’•yyV*
Q V V A \P
.
1
™ ft
ft*
I •
I:
»
'
i • i


FOR COOLNESS SAKE
Wear garments that in actual wear verify all that
we claim in the dependable and acceptable qualities
of the if
VENTILACE
UNDERWEAR.
Your display of energy in hot weather depends upon
the comfort and coolness of the garments you wear.
We offer you the ideal in the Ventilace Underwear,
which is made in cotton with a strong open mesh'
permitting ventilation and the maximum of comfort!
Here’s truly wonderful value.
SINGLETS OR
KNICKERS,
2/9
POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS.
CHAS. LANE & CO. pty. ltd.
The Mail Order
House for Men,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
€?I&
m
wm
rxt
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. IT Snnl
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them!
e sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
c°
i?'
■MORRISs 1
IMPERIAL
Obtainable *ll Chemists and Stores
STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its Growth.
To a half-pint of water add: —
Ray Rum loz.
Orlex Compound A small box
Glycerine
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week, until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head of
dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, and relieves
itching and scalp diseases.
Although it is not a dye, it acts upon the
hair roots, and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy. f 2
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE DIM RELIGIOUS LIGHT.
NEAR-SIGHTED PRAICHER ( readin ’ av the
lesson): “‘An ’ the Loord sed’—Billy
Trewenack, turn up they lights, will’ee,
plage?”
Talking about shearers’ cooks.
One evening a few years ago a young man without
even an apology for boots struck a small selection
near Warren (N.S.W.) owned by a widow, and asked
the favor of cutting wood for something to eat.
The widow fed him heartily, and he then adjourned
to the wood, where he bogged in until she induced
him to knock off. Next day he made such a good
impression that he was offered 10s. a week to milk a
few cows and do an odd job or two; while a horse
and dray were put at his disposal to supply the
township with firewood, the proceeds to be his. For
six months Patsy toiled and put a little money by.
Also, on Sundays he cooked the dinner and numer-
ous new tasty dishes he manufactured as he grew
an adept at the art. Then shearing started, and
Patsy parted from his benefactor. He was sorry to
leave her, but there was good money to be made in
the sheds cooking. One day early in the. following
spring a bunch of horsemen jingled up to the home-
stead where Patsy had learned to cook. “Are you
Mrs. ?” asked the leader, a sunburnt giant.
She admitted it. Ginger Jim spurred his grey to
her side. “Put it there, Missus,” he said, extending
a broad, rough hand. “Put it there. You’re the
woman as set Patsy Pat, the best cook in ther
West, on his legs.” Then the crowd shook hands
with her in turn, and rode away. The widow
reckons that the hour of her life.
* * * *
“Mul”: “Barcoo’s” paragraph re flights
of flock-pigeons (B. 2/3/’l6) brings me some
qualms of conscience. I was at Longreach (Q.)
some years ago during a visitation of these birds.
They were in countless droves, and hung about the
town-common for a week, while the inhabitants got
a surfeit of pigeon-pie. A few men with guns posted
around a drove could control it for almost an hour
at a time. It was simply a matter of driving them
backwards and forwards across the telephone or tele-
graph lines which abounded on the common until
beneath the wires were piles of dead and dying. I
think I’ll never forget the slaughter of those few days.
“Pharmo”: A word in the ear of “Burde-
kin” (B. 16/3/’l6). “Condy’s crystals” are prac-
tically no good for destroying snake venom. What
should be used is permanganate of potash, commonly
sold as “crimson crystals.” The manufacturers of
Condy’s crystals guarantee them to contain abso-
lutely no permanganate of potash, and threaten to
prosecute anyone who sells p. of p. as Condy’s crys-
tals. The ligature is the best snake-bite treatment.
Apply one promptly and keep on for 30min., scarify
the wound and suck it. That will remove any danger
of death. The small amount of venom that makes its
way into the blood stream past the ligatures inocu-
lates the patient against the larger amount remaining
in the wound, on the principle that vaccination biffs
smallpox.
* * * *
“O.O.”: “The Reefer” is quite correct
when he states that “S. S. Severn” is wrong about
the Papuans having one albino to each village. I
have been kicking about the islands of the Pacific
for the last 10 years or more, and can safely say
that Fiji has more albinos than any other group,
yet they are scarce there. As for feeling squeamish
when looking at these freaks “The Reefer” is right
again. At one time there was an albino among the
native laborers who travelled in the Union Co.’s
ships while in the group, and the tourists, after
satisfying their curiosity with one sight of him,
generally requested the Boss to keep him out of their
line of vision.
Bad Australian”: It was a wet, windy
night, and I was taking my yerba mate preparatory
to turning in, when one of my arrieros
rushed into the rancho with the information
that a leon was amongst the animals. I
grabbed my Winchester and followed Jos6 to
the corral, only to find that the puma had
quit after killing one of the bell mares. As
a puma almost invariably returns to the car-
case when he has been disturbed in his kill,
Jose and I climbed a big bushy ombu which
grew alongside the corral and waited. After
about two hours an old-man puma sprang on
top of the high adobe wall of the corral, but
before I had time to snap at him he
had dropped amongst the mules. For
about half a minute it sounded as if
somebody was being sandbagged to the
accompaniment of a kind of muffled,
worrying growl. Then everything was
quiet except for an occasional snort or
whine. I waited in the hope of seeing
the leon as he went over the wall
again, but nothing happened until day-
light. Then I saw the great cat lying
in a corner of the corral as dead a?
the late J. Iscariot, with his near fore-
arm broken and his jaw badly shat-
tered. One of the pack-mules which
he had tackled in preference to the
dead mare had handed him a pair of
loose heels and the surprise of his life
at the same time. That mule took a
lot of patching up, but a patched mule
is reckoned as good as new in these
parts. The job was done after the
manner in which Abdul the Awful
caulks his ship of the desert, and the
hardy old hybrid is still humping more than his fair
share of the White Man’s Burden with the best half
of that puma’s pelt between some of his honorable
scars and the pack-saddle. [And as I’m writing
this in the Horcones Valley, Argentina, 16,300 ft
above sea-level, on Christmas Day, 1915, I’ll wish
you a Happy New Year.]
WHEN THE BALMY BREEZES BLOW.
FIRST SUBURBANITE: “I hear the people over
the way from you have bought a herd of
goats."
SECOND DITTO: “Yes. I got wind of it
yesterday."
“Nil”: A recent abo. par about Australia’s
wild flowers —some of the loveliest in the world-
recalled one of my cherished fads. The names of
the flowers always troubled me—“ Cockatoo-claw”!
“Spiders”! “Dog-face”! and “Pig-face”! “Old-
man’s beard” ! and so on. Can a people ever be a
nation whose children (for it is the children who
have named the flowers) achieve nothing better than
that? “Buttercup,” “Day’s eye,” and “Heartsease,’.’
“Queen of the Meadow”—what a contrast! Now for
the fad. I offered an annual prize at the local
school in my township for the best collection of
wildflowers with original and pleasing names, the
whole to be submitted to an approved committee for
selection. To the Minister of Education I suggested
that similar local committees should be created
throughout S. Aus., making annual selections and
tabulating them until a name was selected by the
head committee, to be attached to any particular
nameless (or badly named) native blossom. I was
told, not too politely, to mind my own business.
‘ Pick’ : I want to clinch the argument
about the best area in Australia for the growth of
wild flowers. The roof-tree of the
continent, Kosciusko and the Kiandra
country, in midspring and early sum-
mer, is runner-up to no place on the
planet for either variety or profusion
of floral wealth. Then the hillsides,
irrigated with melting snows, become
matted with the variegated red, pink
and yellow hop-scrub, wild-pea, purple
wild-grape and starry prickly-bush,
until they present a never-ending blaze
of glory. At the same time the
swamp lilies, the feathery wild-
violets, butter-cups, yams and thou-
sands of unnamed plants carpet the
plains with an unsurpassable sheen of beauty. It
is an artist’s and botanist’s paradise. Never know-
ing drought, the sweeping kaleidoscope of blossom
recurs as regularly as the season, which cannot be
claimed for other spots cracked up by recent Abo.-
writers.
*
Pddyson : lie was one of five occupants
of the smoking car, a stout, fair, aquiline man, with
a lively blue eye, a perky manner and a cheerful
method of address. He was on terms of intimacy
with all present 15 minutes from start. He was the
first to produce whisky, and a game of poker was
his original idea. I took him for a commercial
traveller m happy circumstances, and he told more
stories between North Melbourne and Albury than I
had heard before in 10 years of pagan living He
was a conversational cataract. When we went into
sleepers at Albury I was pained to find that the
constant talker was bunked above me. And I did
so want a little sleep. However, he relapsed after
telling the 14 best stories and describing the actual
facts of his encounter with the camel at Constantine
(Q.), and I slept till we arrived at some dim, dream-
like station half-way between bed and breakfast,
there was a lot of gabbling on the platform, and
looking out I discovered a knot of about 30 men
and -women skipping along the platform, callin- at
each compartment for John Thomas Winterbottom.
They came to our berth. A gaunt female with a face
» ir J put . l , ierbead in - “ John Thomas
Winterbottom!” she said shrilly. “Eh!” resnondwl
the man in the bed above. “Mr. John Thomas w£
terbottom?” repeated the lady. The fat man flopped
out of llis bunk. “My gracious, here he is!” cried
lbe woman ln a sor t of ecstasy. Somebody outside-
-110 P arr ot-faced female, I think—delivered a short
a PP reeiati °n of the life and works of Mr. John
10r >ias Winterbottom, couched in terms of fervent
adrnlratlon - Tt was hoped Mr. Winterbottom would
acct ’P*' the small gift offered as some flight mark of
th ? appreciation-the givers entertained for his great
f/ 1 * 1 lbelr gratitude for the wonderful moral
? P , 111 lbey bad derived from his noble thought. The
a , man WaS , very thankful if his poor efforts had
?f rn ,W S ° me soul-healing to the inhabitants of
1 1G , dlstant places. (Hurrah!) He was touched to
had S ° many sweet > unknown friends in this
tOWn . Wl ° thought well enough of him to miss
reS * ln , order to K reet him as he passed through,
p. 1!; b 63- '- 1 He hoped at some future time, if
, ro ' ulence spared him to continue his great work,
t 0 sta y a few da ys among them, and assist his dear
brother . s and sisters in spreading the glad tidings of
fw,, tbl,\ h (Cbeers!) I,e c0 “ ld not hope to tell
them theu how he loved them all, sisters and brethren
SANITARY SCIENCE AT DARWIN
( N.T. ).
alike, young and old, and how he prayed Heaven to
strengthen and endow him to give a suitable and
abiding demonstration of that love. (“You have.
Oh, you have!”) Sobs shook his fat frame. “With
these tears I baptise you, my brothers, my dear
sisters.” (Cries of rapture.) The whistle had
blown, the train was starting. My fat companion
hung out of the window. He continued his address
while there remained the smallest hope of the depu-
tation hearing his voice, and then drew in, red and
perspiring, with a slim, silver wreath decorating his
glowing baldness. He sat on a trunk and mopped
his beaded brow, and I gaped at him. “So you are
the celebrated John Thomas Winterbottom ?” I said.
“Not at all,” he replied, as he clambered into his
bunk. “Who is he? Never heard of the damn
fellow in my life before.”
* * * *
“Musketoon”: I’m open to be convinced
that this is not a record, but Goulburn district
(N.S.W.) would eat its grandmother publicly if she
doubted it. One Joe Broadhead led a party which
captured a bees’ nest at Mary Ann’s Valley. When
they had sorted out the honey and comb the con-
signment weighed 1831 b.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE WAR AND PUMPKIN FLAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For thirty years at Pumpkin Flat
The talk was all of cows and corn ;
On every new idea they spat,
Of Lightning Ridge they spoke with scorn—
For “foreign places” (so to speak)
Meant everywhere across the creek.
For thirty years they hoed the soil
And gently reared the poddied calf:
The Ancient Lights believed in Toil,
The youngsters hardly dared to laugh,
But rose at five through thick and thin
And rushed to bring the milkers in.
So Pumpkin Flat soon throve apace
With twenty farms, a tin-roofed hall,
A school, a church to bring them grace
(The heathen Ridge had none at all),
And cows and cockies both grew fat
Upon the grass of Pumpkin Flat.
They didn’t like the world outside
(Though down to town they’d sometimes go) ;
It sent them fools who couldn’t ride,
And spielers for the township Show
Who thimble-rigged the sportive pea
And talked of uncles from Fiji.
On many things they had no doubts:
They swore that Labor men were hogs,
That tariffs, taxes, rabbits, droughts
Had brought the country to the dogs.
Australia was a country that
Had no repute at Pumpkin Flat.
The very name of Commonwealth
Would rouse to ire the Ancient Lights;
They vowed it was arranged by stealth,
And talked of battling for their rights—
The right of Pumpkin Flat to be
One people with one destiny.
And then....O Mars! O drums of war!
What slumbering passions you arouse!
You make the curate dream of gore,
And tear the cocky from his cows ;
Thus wider histories were begun
When- Pumpkin Flat took down its gun.
The talk is now of Turkish shells,
And how the new Lee Metford shoots,
Of “our boys at the Dardanelles”
(Including Pumpkin Flat’s recruits),
Till one would think (and be quite wrong)
They’d backed their country all along.
Langtons were English, Larsens Danes,
Doyle Irish as a Kerry cow,
And Scotch blood flowed through Ramsay’s veins;
But, Lord! they’re all Australians now.
And so that Pumpkin Flat may brag,
The schoolhouse flies Australia’s flag.
The youngsters talk of native soil,
The Ancient Lights forgot to croak
Of spielers when young Larry Doyle
Brought home a wounded Sydney b10ke....
And now they’ve even built a bridge
Across the creek to Lightning Ridge!
VICTORIA.
RANN DALY.


CO
CO
MAKE YOUR OWN COUGH MIXTURE.
CO
LU l
CO
HEANS
■^ri
Cough
Mixture
ESSENCE
SAVES YOUR MONEY —DOES YOU GOOD.
The GREAT MONEY-SAVING REMEDY for
Coughs, Colds, Catarrh
And other Throat and Chest Troubles.
Sydney, Sept. 20, 1915.
Mr. G. W. HEAN,
Chemist.
Hear Sir, —An athlete with a
cold is like a motor with a choked-
up carburetter. Neither will
go very far. Free breathing is
absolutely essential to effective
lung power, which, in turn, is
necessary to ensure physical stay-
ing power. In training with Ees
Darcy, to keep my breathing
free and for checking the pro-
gress of colds which I have con-
tracted, I have found Hean’s
Essence of inestimable value.
Indeed I consider it is another
World’s Champion, of which Aus-
tralia may justly feel proud.
DAVE SMITH.
HEAN’S ESSENCE soothes
and heals sore throats, relieves
bronchial stress and allays dis-
tressing coughs in the shortest
space of time.
OVER 2000 TESTIMONIALS
RECEIVED IN TWELVE
MONTHS.
HEAN’S ESSENCE, added to water and sweetening, at once produces
a pint of ready-to-use mixture —as much as you can get of ordinary remedies
for 325., thus showing a clear cash saving of 10s. on each bottle used.
HEAN’S ESSENCE is stocked by leading Chemists and Stores, or it
may be obtained from the Manufacturer,
MR. DAVE SMITH.
CO
CO
G. W. MEAN , Chemist,
178 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
CO
CO
If it’s “NERVES” you’ve got it’s Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
you need ; price 3/- bottle containing 10 Days’ Treatment.
SHEFFIELD TOOL
FOR-ALL
R
Engineers
“Ultra Capital” and
“Capital” High-speed
Twist Drills.
We carry Large Stocks. In Sizes: “Ultra-Capital.
Jin. to 2 7-I6in.; “Capital,” Jin. to 2in.
Contractors to the N.S.W. Govt.
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Circular Saws
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen.
From Best Sheffield Crucible Cast-Steel
Plates,
Size Gin. dia. to 72in.
SAW REPAIRING A SPECIALTY.
“ULTRA-CAPITAL” and
“NEW-CAPITAL” High-
Speed Steel.
NICKEL STEEL for Motor-
Car Work.
MINING STEEL, supplied
in Octagon, Heavy and
Cruciform Sections.
OCTAGON and HEXA-
GON HOLLOW DRILL
STEEL.
TRADE MARK
CIO Bt
zmP-
mor * Mia* *
* riuoi ■% um.
BR
SPECIALTIES:
“AN EAGLE ON A
GLOBE” BRAND COAL
CUTTER STEEL.
Hamm e r s, Picks, Saws,
Files, etc.
CRUCIBLE CAST STEEL
for Tools of all descrip-
tions.
BRIGHT DRAWN
STEEL, Round for Shaft-
ing, also Hexagon and
Square.
w
HEFFIELD, EMGLA
mm
WAS*
Australian
379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle.
We Will Send Patterns of the
New Winter Suitings to any
Address in Australasia
All you have to do is to mail
us a postcard saying where you
live, and by return post we'll
send you Free Patterns of the
New Winter Suitings at
70j- 84|-1051-
together with Tape and Home-
Measurement Charts.
Entrust the making of your
Winter Suit
to The Leviathan Expert Cutters
and Highly-qualified Tailors
and you will realise your ideals of
what a perfect suit should be.
Our Winter Catalogue is
now being distributed. If
you would care to have a
copy, kindly tell us so, and
we will send it by return
post.
Pi
T-
h
'p
NJ
THE LEVIATHAN
Makers of Good Clothes for 64 Years,
Corner SWANSTON & BOURKE STREETS, MELBOURNE.
BRITISH-MADE
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
HgUM,
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
2-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
All the Latest Hits
Out First on Regals.
Regal Records Last Longer and Cost Less.
A FEW POPULAR “REGALS”-
“Australia Will Be There.”
“Somewhere a Voice is Calling.”
“Sure They Call It Ireland.”
“Russian Church Parade.”
“Casey as a Doctor.”
“Special Constable Smith.”
“I’m On My Way to Mandalay.”
“Break the News to Mother.”
“Arrival of Australians in Egypt.”
“Kaiser in a Zeppelin.”
“If England Wants a Hand.”
“When Fields are White with
Daisies.”
“My Little Grey Home.”
“In the Heart of a City.”
“By the Old Cathedral Door.”
“Blue Eyes.”
“The Charge of the London Scot-
tish.”
“Jerry Jinks—Scallawag.”
“Good-bye, Virginia.”
“Here We Are Again.”
“Arrival British in France.”
“Good-bye, Dolly Gray.”
“Some Hearts Will Be Joyful.”
“Till the Boys Come Home.”
Boys of the Dardanelles.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd. J
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


room
TIRES
Duvals Co.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM,
PERTH.
Best in the Long Run
heals any wound or sore
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 116, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
A Wonderful
Offer—=
The boot here illustrated is one you know well by sight—the
boot worn by members of the Expeditionary Forces. We are mak-
ing them in thousands to the order of the Government, who have
an inspector to examine and pass every pair before delivery is taken,
home pairs when finished, fail to pass him —not for any fault that
really aftects their wear or comfort, but for such minute defects as
° ne b ,°, ot being as little as one-eighth of an inch higher at the back
han the other ; one slug being oi t of place; or the heel not being
sufficiently even to pass the spirit-level test. 1
Nothing else is wrong with the rejects.
They re SOLID LEATHER THROUGHOUT,
3re built to withstand the toughest usage to
give the MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF COM-
FORT TO THE WEARER, and are GUAR-
ANTEED to do so.
WRITE NOW FOR A PAIR. They’re
ideal for country and other hard wear, and
for the money—l4/6, carriage paid—-are
POSITIVELY THE GREATEST BOOT
VALUE EVER OFFERED.
6d. Exchange must be added to Country
Cheques.
HY. HARRIS,
50 McKean Street, North Fitzroy, Victoria.
14J6
Carriage
Paid.
“Jas.”: Re “W.C.M.” (B. 16/3/’l6) on
the paw-paw tree affecting children sleeping in its
shade. Here are more peculiarities of the plant.
The corpse of the toughest old rooster will eat like
tenderest chicken if handed overnight to the vege-
table. Also the women of Sumatra and Java reckon
that a paw-paw diet is—well, no friend of a high
birth-rate.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Renovators at work on the
N.S.W. State Taxation Department buildings, Syd-
ney, lately discovered an armored bird’s nest. The
pigeon architect had evidently been washed out of
a first dugout of straw and sticks; so he (or she)
gathered nails, staples and wire, and built an iron-
mongery tenement which gradually rusted into one
mass and became a permanent and reproductive work.
It contained two eggs when the Huns arrived.
* * # *
“N. 8.” : I can’t speak about the Papuan
albino, but if he is more awful than the Fijian
ditto he ought to be taken and tied to the Kaiser’s
bedpost to give him nightmare. The Fijian freak
has the massive build, heavy features and stiffly-
frizzed hair of his countrymen, but the skin is dead-
white and blotched with sickly-looking brown patches
the size of a man’s hand. The hair is tow-colored
and the eyelashes white. Fijian albinos are fairly
plentiful—most districts can boast of one or two.
I’ve heard of one village where several are to be
found. They are very proud of themselves, and their
relatives swank about them a good deal. One half-
caste whom I have seen had a milk-white skin, which
no amount of exposure could either tan or freckle.
“Llib”: “Vigilans” (B. 17/2/’l6), when
he mentioned that the blackfellow will eat almost
anything, should not have barred the croc. Three
years ago, at Cooktown, a fisherman caught a croco-
dile in his net, and in the evening I met a string
of blacks making for camp, quite three miles away,
carrying the lizard’s tail. I inquired if they in-
tended to eat it, and the answer was: “My word!
Budgeree fellow that one!” Considering the dis-
tance they were humping it I saw no reason to
doubt them.
“C.G.”: I have measured the spread of
scores of eagles, and found them to range between
7ft. and 7ft. 5in., averaging about 7ft. 3in. Have
seen only one shot that I can call to mind under
7ft., viz., 6ft. lOin. The largest I ever taped went
8ft. 4in. This chap had haunted a range of hills
in the midlands of Tas. for some months and made
trouble for young sheep. We laid a poisoned bait
for him, as he was too wary to be shot, and that
put him out of business.
* * * *
“Mulga”: Birtles apparently had no
idea of obtaining gohanna oil if he tried for it in the
way described by “Musketoon” (B. 17/2/’16). Not
only would the oil lose all its strength, but the
quantity would be practically nil. Here is the
correct method: Place the fat in a bottle and hang
it up exposed to the sun. The rendering-down will
take five or six days, but full quality and quantity
will be obtained. Bushmen use the oil for sprains
and rheumatism, but very little is required, as it
is so strong. Also, no ordinary tin will hold the oil
owing to its great penetrating power. Incidentally,
it must have been crocodiles that Birtles obtained
his supply from. It would take as many gohannas
a3 N. S. Wales has IOU’s to procure enough lotion to
drive a motor-car.
*■ * * *
“Pittong”: O’Meara must have been a
kindly, big-hearted man. He kept a roadside pub.
between Linton and Skipton (Vic.). At his death
his will provided that no traveller should be allowed
to pass the hotel if he needed a drink, or a meal, or
a plug of tobacco and had no money to pay. The
good old custom is carried on by the O’Meara sons.
Only in Australia could you expect to run into that
kind of generosity.
* * * *
“McNorth”: For an unknown number of
years Australia was periodically invaded by large
fleets of Malay praus, which visited the Territory
coast in search of trepang. These clumsy vessels,
which could travel only with a following wind,
usually left Macassar at the beginning of the north-
west season, and sailing across the Arafura Sea to
Port Kssington, or Bowen Strait, pursued the sea-slug
till the south-east monsoon gave them a fair wind
home. The Malays’ practice was to engage as many
Binghis as were friendly and inclined to work, pay-
ing them in rations, tobacco, opium and grog. Aged
Binghis tell many dark and dreadful tales of those
times. A hoary old sinner blanched me with the
details of one night when a whole prau’s crew was
massacred. A few scattered natives with the light-
colored skin and straight hair which show their
Malayan ancestry, a few spots along the coast with
Malay names, a few Macassar canoes at a native camp
or two are about all the cursory indications that re-
main of the Malays’ visits. But, to go a little deeper,
it is quite evident that the prevalence of disease and
the diminished numbers of the aborigines in the
regions where trepang is plentiful are a legacy of the
Oriental.
* * * *
“Wassa”: To the general surprise of most
Australians who visit Cairo Zoological Gardens, there
are a pair of black cockatoos—-the real identical
article —living in captivity with a number of their
white brethren.
A PRETTY GOOD GOLFER.
“Wot sort of a player's your boss, Bill?”
“Pretty good; 'e's on'y missed payin' me once so far.”
THE REWARD.
MR. BAGGS: “Look here! Eve given poun’s an ’ poun’s to the Funds. But I s'pose I’ll
have to go on givin’. I’ll take one ticket off you—how much, and what’s it for?"
MISS CHARITY (suddenly changing her plans): “One penny, sir. It’s for a framed
illuminated text called ‘ The Lord loveth a cheerful giver.’”
“O’Phimerty” : For the straight-wood con-
test (B. 24/2/’l6) I enter the horizontal, which
grows plentifully in the dense forests of Western
Tasmania. It shoots up, a slim young sapling, for
about 15ft. to 20ft. Then in a gale of wind it
bends over at a point about 4ft. up from the root
and grows horizontally and quite straight for 50ft.
or 60ft. Another peculiar point about this tree,
which makes it prized by bushmen, is that it will
burn brightly when it is green, and even when it
is soaked with the plentiful rains of those parts
* * * *
“Veracitus”: Re the queer deaths that
animals meet. I once found a heifer dead in an old
branding crush. The fool had evidently mooched in
and hadn’t the sense to back out. Also I once came
across a dingo with his head stuck in the fork of a
wattle about 10 feet off the ground. Another- dingo
I saw out west with his hind leg jambed in the
meshes of netting-wire and hanging head down. And
I’ve discovered a flying-fox hooked by one wing to
barbed wire. Now, a word into this argument about
a she-bear having only one cub at a time. In the
great 1902 drought, when I was scalping on* the
Burnett, I saw a she-bear with two small cubs aiid
on the same tree the last year’s infant..
■* * * «
“Lindy Lue”: Three years ago when I
was running a boxing booth on Casino (NSW)
show-ground, Morrissey and his
assistant “Rocky” Vane were giving
exhibitions of snake charming. We
paid them to perform outside our tent
for the purpose of assembling a crowd.
The morning after the night before
Morrissey in a maudlin state was
accidentally bitten on the thumb, and
his assistant being away viewing the
scenery through the bottom of a glass,
the poison got about quarter of an
hour’s start on the antidote, the
bitten man became unconscious, and
his hand and arm were very much
swollen and turned a bluey-blaek. We had Mor-
rissey laid out in the tent, and all Casino, white,
black and brindle, was anxious to see if he would
kick the bucket. I have been kicking mvself since
for not charging a deener a head to see the per-
formance. Whether it was his antidote which did
the curing or the bung-juice of which he had a
skinful, I dunno, but he refused to snuff out; much,
I believe, to the disappointment of a number of
the audience. After about four hours’ unconscious-
ness the snake-man came to life again, but he was
a very siek-looking job lot.
* * * *
P.F. : Here is a Queensland phenom-
enon. The native bees at Baffle Creek have taken to
following herds of cattle, alighting on the beasts
and sucking at the perspiration oozing from the
skin. I had known them settle on the bare arms of
a man and feast there till disturbed, but this trick
of mopping up cattle is new to me.
“Barcoo” : Who knows anything about the
meat-eating proclivities of the horse? Years ago two
good old four-legged nags were used exclusively
about the head station on Kensington Downs (Q.)
to deliver the supplies to the camps and men’s-huts.
One of them patronised the shearers’ slop cask; the
other that of the shed-hands. When not in the
waggonette they were likely to be found with their
heads buried up to the eyes burrowing for scraps of
meat. And they thrived on the unusual tucker, their
coats being as sleek as a thoroughbred’s. I’ve
known sheep with a similar taste. Some starving
ewes on a station I was tearing out dividends for
made friends with the cook and learned to eat the
scraps of the camp, including stale chops. Their
peculiar weakness was curry-and-rice.
* * * *
“Golly”: Here’s another cure for sore
shoulders on a horse. Mix a tablespoonful of lard or
clean fat with half a teaspoonful of blacklead. Then
rub the horie into it and don’t worry.
HIGH EXPLOSIVES.
HILL (old-style bullorky): "Rot! A bloke'd
never get his oxomoblankybile along with
washy langwidge. You got to put some
gelignite and liquid fire into it to blast
and burn the cows through a pinch."
JIM (new -style oxshofer): "I never use 'em.
Bill. When I want Strawberry and Cay-
tain to get a move on I just read 'em
the big black search cads off the war
news. I can make 'em climb trees with
them!"
THE HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s now a year since Andy came
And courted me at father’s farm.
1 thought him fine; ’twould be a shame
Suspecting him of any harm.
His smile was sweet, his eyes were grand ;
He boldly asked me for my hand.
My Andy’s tall; he owns those cows
That feed as far as you can see;
And when Dad’s asked —well, he allows
It’s quite a splendid catch for me.
And so he answers, smiling bland :
“Yer welkim to me daughter’s hand.”
Thus Andy got my hand, and so
I’m milking in the early dew,
And if you’re homing with the crow
It’s then you’ll find me milking too.
Now quite well do I understand
What Andy wanted with a hand.
VICTORIA.
TILLY T.


This Girl Makes Dusting
and Cleaning a Joy!
CHE’S the world-famous O- Cedar Girl
messenger of cheer and comfort to more than
two million homes! Learn to look for her . She appears in all
these big, bright O- Cedar advertisements and typifies to a
nicety the modern housewife who, mindful that these are
days for economy, saves her money, time and energy by using
O-Cedar Polish and the O-Cedar Polish-Mop ALWAYS .
-
0
cha«n £u
O-Cedar
Polish
IfOZ. bottles,
Price 1/3.
12oz. bottles,
Price 2/3.
Quart Tins,
Price 4/9.
Half-gallon Tins,
Price 6/9.
“““ Gallon Tins,^ m
Price 13/6.
O-Cedar
Polish
iioTWIW O
jgsTOjjv*®" 10
j^pOO
0-Cedar Polish-mop,
Round Model,
Prices 6/9 and 4/9.
o
o
tins
ftsM°p
ixr C
s^N^Poiisi l
O-Cedar Polish-mop, >
Triangle Model,
Prices 6/9 and 4/9.
Round
tins
US.«rtd
m
Use O-Cedar Polish the O-Cedar Way
\7I7'ET a piece of cloth —in water; muslin or woollen
V rag is the best. Wring it almost dry —
Pour on O-Cedar Polish as much as there is water.
Go over the surface to be cleaned table, sideboard, piano,
etc. Varnish absorbs O-Cedar but not water the friction re-
moves the dirt and dust.
Polish with a dry cloth rub slightly. The beauty of the
grain is brought out seeming blemishes disappear and the
surface looks like new.
A hard, dry lustre remains not gummy or sticky. A
cambric handkerchief would not be soiled if placed on any
article polished the O-Cedar Way.
“Your Cleaning Companion”
O-Cedar Polish-Mop
O-Cedar Polish-Mop absorbes all
dirt, polishing at the same time.
It is a remarkable time and labour-
saving device, plus a hygienic
house-cleaning appliance. It in-
sures thoroughly clean surround-
ings because it picks up and holds
the dust and dirt. Its long, ad-
justable handle permits of the
cleaning and polishing of floors,
under bed or other furniture
without stooping.
“Cleans as it Polishes”
O-Cedar Polish
Simply add a few drops of
O-Cedar Polish to a cloth
dampened with water. Go
over any piece of furniture
or woodwork, and polish
with a dry cloth. See
how O-Cedar really cleans,
dusts, polishes and beauti-
fies all at one time.
O-Cedar produces a
hard dry, gloss-
like lustre or
polish that is
lasting. This
lustre is re-
tained if you
put O-Cedar
on your dust-
cloth as you
use it daily.
Clean those
Hard-To-Get-At Places
YOU get under the beds, the tops of doors
and high furniture, everywhere —with
O-Cedar Polish-Mop. It puts an end to
back-breaking bending and stooping and
getting down on your hands and knees to
dust, clean and polish hardwood floors.
No more hard rubbing or doing the same
work twice. The O-Cedar Polish-Mop
dusts, cleans and polishes all at one time.
0-Cedar is Sold by Leading Dealers Everywhere
O-Cedar Polish is supplied in five convenient sizes: O-Cedar Polish-Mop in two
standard sizes. Your money refunded if you are not delighted with O-Cedar.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT $ CO.,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Also at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents. ADELAIDE aild FREIVIAN I LE.
Manufactured by CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO., Chicago, U. S. A. Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
II
isr
/
a
<ll./
%
*<»*
O-Cedar
is Registered
in Principal
Countries
in
ill I
/
mars jr*?
wrs
r
1 Note the 'I
“Handy Handle Hinge”
All O-Cedar Polish-Mops are now
fitted with this convenient labour-
saving feature —“the handy handle.”
Th ! s makes the mop perfectly ad-
justable,—it goes flat under beds,
tables, etc., and reaches every corner,
nook andcranny.No dust can escape.
Be sure to ask for O-Cedar Polish-
Mop—the original, the genuine, j


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE’S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, as it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST —a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
\ni
1
m 6 i/^r
-
V/
K.
t
7%
m\
W
I
■'
I!'""
1 c K<^cs«-e-y-^.Tvvt,
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to —
W. G. MEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices—
Sydney. N.S.W.. Wellington, N.Z.
14.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Sr.” : Up to the gate came the commer-
cial god in the car, and, throwing his dust-
coat to the machineman, bustled up the path
and started to spellbind Dad. “Good-morn-
ing, Mr. Porter! I’m representing a firm of
cotton merchants who are giving to each
orchardist seeds for growing the cotton plant
in between the fruit trees. Your boys and
girls can set the seeds, and in three years
you get a crop that will nett you three hun-
dred a year. We give you the seeds free.
Here they are, done up for you, and my firm
will take and pay for the cotton at top
market rates. Now I’ll show you some of the
goods manufactured by us from Australian-
grown cotton.” He called the machine flunkey
to bring up his bags. Opening them out he
showed mother a dress-length, father some
socks, the boys some ties, and the girls some
lace and other trifles. Of course, he sold us
his “samples” dirt cheap—£6 or so. Next
day we found he had sold samples to all the
neighbors. But it took us nine months to
discover that his cotton seeds were sun-
flowers.
* * * *
Australia missed another chance through
not being prepared for the brandy drought
which is starting. The war has played
Ancient Henry with Europe’s vine-growing,
and the army doctors have been demanding a
big share of the matured spirit that is in
stock. Further, there seems to have been an
increased consumption of spirits in England,
in spite of handcuffs placed on the Drink
Demon. In 1913 England poured 21,890,000
gallons down its throat and slightly less in
1914; in 1915 it swallowed no less than
25,874,000 exclusive of spirits supplied to
armies abroad. A proportion of the increase,
at least, was brandy. But the industry in
Australia has been so crippled by the im-
porting habit that it is doubtful whether it
can fill Australia’s own small bottle, much
less drive after the market with its dray piled
with barrels. Young vintages are now being
snapped up and the business is climbing
sleepily out of bed. But it’s a painfully-slow
process and a lot of trade has been lost.
“D.F.”: For a man in a hurry there’s no
timber like the celery-top pine, which is
fairly plentiful in some parts of western and
nor’-western Tasmania. Even if it is used
straight away after being cut green it doesn’t
shrink or warp. It is light and fairly strong
and fine timber for panelling work. The Vic-
torian railways recently gave Dunkley Bros.,
of Zeehan, an order for 300,000 super, ft- of
it.
* * * *
“Karee”: In the Fayoum (Egypt) every
“baccal” or village storekeeper-cM/w-money-
lender who isn’t a Greek is a Copt. A Jew,
travelling with a boy, on reaching a town,
gave him a half “disaster” (ljd.) and told
him to buy food therewith for both of them
and the donkey. The operation was beyond
the genius of the kid, but a passing Copt told
him To buy a watermelon, as the Jew would
eat the flesh, the boy the rind, and Balaam’s
old pal the seeds. The Jew, having satisfied
his hunger, asked his young steward how
he’d managed so well. “Oh, a Copt showed
me,” replied the lad. “What! Are there
Copts in this town? My son, this is no place
for one of the Chosen.” And he sadly gath-
ered up the ass and moved on. The Arabs
say that an Armenian will best 10 Jews, but
a Copt will skin 1000 Armenians.
“The Bug Man”: Apropos Tasmanian fruit
trees suffering from San Jose (pronounce it
San Worza) scale. I have met it repeatedly
in my work here (California), and find the
best means of control is the use of lime-
sulphur spray, one to eight or one to 11
parts of water put on under strong pressure
when trees are dormant. Every part should
be freely covered. The progress of Califor-
nia’s fruit industry is due to our fine laws
affecting pests. Each county has its horti-
cultural commissioner and inspectors. Many
refuse to allow fruit or nursery stock to come
in from other counties known to be diseased.
In this part (Tulare, which is free from
phylloxera) grape vines can come in from
only three counties. The rest of the U.S.A.
is barred, and importation from the three
counties is only permitted when the vines are
accompanied by a certificate from the Com-
missioner that they were grown in his State.
Any person or association found guilty of
violating the ordinance is liable to a fine of
500dol. and six months’ gaol. Australia
stands badly in need of these things: (1)
Effective legislation to enforce control _of
vegetable diseases and pests; (2) effective
quarantine; and (3) standardisation of fruit
packs and containers.
* * * *
“Tiaki” ; A Hindu came in to Wellington
(M.L.) from the bush the other day and pro-
ducing samples of dyed garments told the
Maorilanders that the country had all the
vegetable matter required to turn any stuff
any color. Henare used to produce dye from
the tanekaha bark (celery-topped pine) by
bruising and then steeping his muka (flax
fibre) in the resultant liquid. He got a good
red from this. Black was obtained from the
hinau in the same way plus steeping in white 2
pine swamps; yellow from the karamu and
raurekau, and blue-black from the tutu and
mangaeka, all by the same process. Possibly
Bishmillah gets his invisible khaki from an
amalgamation of the dyes of the tanekaha
and the karamu. Anyhow, he reckons that
Maoriland has enough material to dye for
the whole world at no cost worth mentioning.
“D.F.”: “Copabella” mentions (B.
23/3/’l6) a Tasmanian fish-tinning enter-
prise which went on well for a time, and then
died. But there’s another that is still
alive and, kicking. The fishermen at Dun-
ally, on the East Coast, have a little co-
operative concern for handling their cray-
fish. They boil the insects in their own
little factory, pack them and send them
mostly to Sydney, where the co-operators
have their own agent, an ex-fisherman, to
do the selling. They find this a long way
better than selling the crays to the Hobart
middleman and there doesn’t seem any rea-
son except lack of capital why they should
not extend the scheme to the rest of their
catch.
* * * *
“Copabella” : One would think it possible
to grind oats into groats in Australia. Yet
we don’t —much. Recently there was a
shortage of imported patent groats and con-
sternation reigned. I tried to pacify mothers
with the Australian brands, but the dis-
tracted parents had never heard of them and
preferred to change the youngsters’ diet to
the well-advertised arrowroot-biscuit. The
manufacturers of Australian groats assure
us that they are good. So do the
daring few who use them. Yet, year
after year, we import thousands of tins of
what is, after all, only a fine oatmeal
well advertised. And the price of the
local article is 7d. as against the foreigner’s
Is. As a storekeeper I’m keen to sell Aus-
tralian goods, and as a citizen I endeavor to
make myself the only imported article in my
home ; but I’ve never yet succeeded in “star-
ring” Australian groats, and nothing on
earth would persuade that good Australian.
Mrs. Copabella, to try them on the little
Copabellas.
* * * *
“F.C.” : A sight to grieve over is the apple-
crop on the eastern side of Melbourne, especi-
ally at Doncaster and towards Bayswater.
The trees are loaded with fruit, and would
break down if not propped up. No grower
remembers such a crop previously. Under the
trees lie thousands of cases of windfalls
which will be left to rot. The good apples
bring the grower from Is. to 3s. 6d. a case
of 361 b., for which the consumer will pay
from Id. to 6d. per lb. Germany took a
quantity of the fruit in recent years; and
just before the great gong went she was nego-
tiating for “refuse apples,” on a Is. a case
basis, in order to turn them into motor spirit.
With the enormous quantities of fruit yearly
wasted in Victoria and Tasmania manufac-
ture of this spirit ought to be a payable pro-
position here. This applies also to sugar
refuse and waste spuds. As for the whole-
some apples they only need a co-operative
system of supplying a hungry public that
can’t feed itself on fruit at present prices.
* * * *
“Shanghai” : This is how the Chinese pub-
keeper pleads for patronage :
Hangchow was a famous place in ancient times. But
now since the Shanghai-Hangchow Railway has been
connected the commerce is gradually Prospered. Of
course there are many hotels stood, but neither of them
is close to the RaiLway station, nor is built up in the
best foreign style. The Railway Hotel on its upper
pait there is the Roof-Garden, and by using the
electrie passimg the people can go up and down with-
out any on-foot trouble. Everything is protty hand-
somo and well-arranged. The ladies and gentle-
men. who reach it. will forget togo back for the
sake of enjoying themselves.
(1) The Location. It is slightly opposite to the
Hangchow Railway station. when you leave the
t rai n.. a nd walk foward a few steps you will see the
beautiful building in front of you.
• BuiDmg- It is a three-storied house, and
is built in the foreign up-to-dag style. The roof-
garden on the upper part furnished with seats for
tea. and the merchant shops on the lower part supply
with best productions..
• (3 > le P^ e PB- ra ti°n. The foreign furnitures, the
iron-beds, and those fine and usoful things are fur-
nished. The hotel also provided with the beautiful
spreadings, the silk beduilts, the mosquito nets and
the electric lamps, which may be used by the
passenggers without paying any money. It is still
much bett for the passengers that the decorations,
foods, drinks, and implements are providid too. In
a word the hotel provides with every thing.’ and
makes it as good as .possible.
(4) The Supply. The hotel supplies with foreign
and Chinese feast or dinary dinner, lunch and 111
kinds of foods. The -water is filtered, and if is very
clean indeed. J
* * * *
A lawyer writes :
The Bulletin (24/2/’l6) has a par. about Lewis
Waller’s daughter not drawing her half of her father’s
fortune until she is 21 “unless she should get married
in the meantime.” “It is a hundred to one,” the
par. adds, “that she will put in a claim two or three
years before the time arrives”—and the likelihood of
it makes any sensible father rampant. The provision
quoted is a standing feature of old wills, but for
years past I have had the pleasure of convincing
dozens of testators as to the folly of it. Our grand-
mothers did marry at 19 or so, but our daughters
don’t. And they shouldn’t. Then why, in Heaven’s
name, bribe them to do it? Why advertise to every
fortune-hunter that there is a heavy reward waiting
for him if he can persuade the girl to make a fool
of herself before she is old enough to know her own
mind? “Nothing at all if she marries under 21”
would be more sensible; and probably the best of all
is (unless a trust is to run for a lifetime), “Capital
payable at 24, either sex, and married or single.”
THE SEGRRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An angel came to me one night
In flimsy garments shimmering white.
A planet fluttered in his hand ;
His mood was exquisite and bland.
His mouth was rather chaste and prim,
But I was not afraid of him.
His misty raiment lisped and gleamed;
A gentle radiance from him streamed.
He said: “Your virtues well are known
Up yonder by the Golden Throne
“Where common fellows are abhorred.
I’m sent to give you your reward.
“So ask whate’er you will of me,
And I will answer truthfully.
“Ask without fear or doubt; for, oh,
The Very Secret you shall know.”
I looked at him, and knew that he
Would do what he could do for me.
I said: “I thank you, shining wraith,
And I shall ask in simple faith.
“Tell me, high Splendor robed in mist,
In what True Wisdom doth consist.”
“Well have you chosen, man of earth,”
Said he. “And well you prove your worth.
“Well have you seen and understood
That Wisdom is the Greatest Good.
“The Very Secret of the wise
Is that it pays to advertise!”
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Inky Way.
“Cmfwy”: Concerning that Oxford pro-
fessor’s list of Australian poets (B.
20/l/’IG). Bishop Gilbert White’s verses,
quoted by the Archbishop of Canterbury at
the London memorial service to fallen
Anzacs, and given a patronising pat on the
head by the aforesaid prof. (Courthope),
had travelled round anonymously for some
time before they were traced to their author.
Circulated at first in MS. among friends
some two years ago, they were shown to the
Anglican Church Standard, which asked
permission to publish them. But White,
who had hitherto rhymed in print only in
religious papers, wanted to see if his verses
could stand on their own feet in the secular
press as the work of an unknown author, or
if they could only climb with the help of his
gaiters into denominational journals. Syd-
ney Telegraph, which had the first offer
(authorship being concealed), turned them
down; but S. M. Herald printed them over
the initials “A. 8.” They were then re-
printed over the same initials by the
Church Standard, whence they were
copied into a religious paper— The Living
Church —• published at Milwaukee
(U.S.A.). After they had been further
“lifted” in America and England, the
Church Standard announced their author-
ship—an announcement which reached Can-
terbury in time for the Anzac service. It
is odds on that no one in the congregation
-—though it was largely made up of Aus-
tralians —could have supplied the name of
“the poet-bishop of Australia” referred to
by the preacher as author of the quoted
lines; and judging by the total absence
of explanatory footnotes, no cable-editor on
any Australian daily could identify him
when the precis of the sermon came over
the wire. White had published for private
circulation a slim volume of rhymes before
writing these verses, but some of his best
stuff lies buried in back numbers of obscure
religious papers—most of it in The Car-
pentarian, a little quarterly edited by
himself while he bished at Thursday Island.
* * * *
“Biog”: Ages of some Melbourne news-
paper chiefs on the literary sideE. S.
Cunningham (edr. of Argus), in his 57th;
J. E. Davidson (edr. of Herald), some-
where on the sunny side of 50; G. F. H.
Schuler (edr. of Age), 63; D. H. Haling
(Argus), 61; Ambrose Pratt (Age), in his
42nd. Australian newspaper knights:
James Reading Fairfax (S. M. Herald),
in his 82nd year; Lauchlan Charles Mac-
kinnon (Argus), 68; J. Langdon Bonython
(S.A. Advertiser), who would like a baron-
etcy, 67.
* * * *
Winthrop Ilackett’s estate, comprising the
West Australian, Western Mail, orchard,
sheep station, securities, bank balances and
sundry other property, is expected to be
sworn at something over £200,000. The
papers alone would have been worth more
than this but for the war cutting deeply into
the profits. George Wickham, secretary of
the W.A.T.C., is sole executor and trustee,
and takes the deceased’s place as managing-
director of the West and Mail. A. Langler,
who has practically run the show for some
years past, is the new managing-editoi', and
those of the literary staff who have
or are not getting ready to go to the Front
retain their jobs, while those who have
enlisted are having theirs kept open for them.
» * * *
From a N.S.W. country paper that didn’t
mean to be nasty :
The Minister for Lands, the Minister for Agricul-
ture, and the Under-Secretary for Agriculture paid a
visit to the old Zoo at Moore Park, and decided to
adopt the suggestion that it be utilised as a horti-
cultural college for women students. It is expected
the animals will take up their new quarters by ! July
next.
* * * *
“C.C.”: The “Maoriland Year Book” for
1915 has just been published. In a summary
of maladies treated at the public hospitals for
the year, “old age” is listed. Of 216 cases of
this disease, 76 died, but it is fine news in
these days of general devastation to learn
that 85 were “relieved” and 22 were dis-
charged “recovered.” My ailing grandmother
(age 93) is going to begin the cure at once
and go on the stage.
’OME PAPERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We'll be glad if you’ll allow us just to write and—
well, explain;
With a foot of nice thick mud below, and overhead
the rain,
We’ve been looking at ’Ome papers, and we’d like a
word or two
Re some plain and fancy photos of a bloke we
take for you.
This route marchin’ of yer Wombats is spectacular
and fine,
But a train is heaps the quickest way to join the
thin brown line;
Though these schools fer training officers may bring
yeh backsheesh stars,
Yeh'd be better as a ranker diggin’ round fer silver
bars.
Yes, we see you in the pictures clobbered up all
flash and neat,
A-chattin’ of our wimmen on the corner of our
street,
While the chaps is dying mucky in a lonely sort of
way ;
But the blokes that come ’ome after, p’raps they’ll
have a word to say.
There’s a few fit blokes, too, spruikin’ fer to make
the rest enlist
That’d do a damn-sight better with a shovel in their
fist.
Grab a gun and drop play-actin’, photographed in
fancy dress,
And hop out and help yer cobbers in the real and
dinkum mess!
Now, we ’ope that you’ll excuse us if we seem too
rough and plain,
But them bally illustrations really causes us some
pain;
And if you don’t believe it, ’urry up and join the
show—
We’ll lay an even tenner it won’t take you long to
know!
EGYTT.
JACK SOMMERS.


A MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION
to be seen at tbe coming Sydney Show.
The Wonderful Combination of Practicai Constructions, High Qua.ity
and Low Price in
COOPER MACHINERY
IS A SHOW WITHIN ITSELF.
V” *" ’ m ' y “ *“> ”» *■ Sk™ ~ tk« much-ialfccd-ol ,„d W „I„
Here are a few of the Outfits that will be exhibited
Our thirty years exhaustive experience has enabled
us to produce Shearing Machines of a quality and effici-
ency that have increased our output more than that of all
other makes combined. The output brought down the
cost of manufacture to a point where our prices are
within the reach of all.
Q
This Cooper
Belt-driven
Overhead
Gear
with its simple, fast and loose
pulley, is a marvel of simplicity
and strength. It runs smooth and
quiet, loses no power, and never
gets out of order. It has. made a
wonderful name for itself through-
out Australia. A Plant of these
Machines will cost you at least 25
per cent, less than any other make,
and we guarantee will require less
attention and less replacement of
parts than any other Machine
made.
Complete Stand, £lolos.
This Cooper “Little Major”
Complete One=Stand Outfit
is an example of the wide range of Cooper Machines built
for various-size flocks. It is complete, with a high-grade
f-h.p. Engine, which runs all day
on two quarts of fuel. It is a
simple four-cycle Engine, with
High-tension Magneto and Ilit-
and-Miss Governor. Easy to
start and operate. The Cooper
Shearing Attachment is equipped
with the celebrated Cooper Air-
cooled Hand-piece, four Combs
and four Cutters, and all neces-
sary extras. Hundreds of these
Machines are in use in Australia
by woolgrowers with flocks of 500
to 1000 sheep, and they are giv-
ing excellent satisfaction.
Price Complete,
as shown,
£2O.
Our Stewart Hand-operated
Machines
need no introduction. Thou-
sands are sold annually through-
out the world. This No. 9
Ballbearing, Hand-operated
Machine is a great favorite for
shearing small flocks of 100 or
200 sheep, and it is extensively
used for crutching and wigging.
The working parts are all
enclosed in a dust-proof case,
where they run in oil. Every
point or place of friction is
fitted with ball-bearingr,. It
turns easy and does fast, smooth
work.
Price of the above Machine
as described is
£3 10s.
ot. * Upen , orit 7 of . the Stewart Hand Machine to all
Wn r C^e f evidenced by the fact that the British
4000 Of 06 .the past year has purchased over
horses &teWart ac hi ne s for use on artillery and cavalry
Cooper Air-cooled
Handpiece
rj
■
The most economical and smooth-working
Machine on the market. Remember, if you are
buying a Shearing Plant, the Hand-piece is the
most important part of the entire Plant, and
should be constructed to reduce friction and
violation to a minimum, eliminating all heavy
f ea l„ an Q d v tear ' proper Machines are designed to do all
fnr t n?,nfi Ve /“I more : They hold the world’s record
f 561 ° f . shae P shorn before any replacement of
AP,rS;n S requirad - , : If you have a Plant of Shearing
Machinery we will refit it with these new Cooper Hand-
ones eS aD(I make you a llberal allowance for your old
eXamine ifc Personally, or write for full
Stewart Handy Worker.
A STRONG AND POWERFUL VISE
OR ILLS
\ > ANV ' L \,
CAN BE ADJUSTED FOR
TWO SPEEDS
CUTTING HARDIE
PIPE VISE
We will demonstrate this Machine to you grinding
knives and tools, boring and drilling through both iron
and wood, serving as both a universal vise and pipe vise,
used for anvil work and many other purposes. It is a
combination of many-handy and useful tools in one. It
takes up little room in the workshop, and saves both
valuable time and money on various repair jobs that
you could do promptly and efficiently. You will make no
mistake in ordering one of these combination Handv
Worker Outfits to-day. They are for sale by Store-
keepers and Supply Houses throughout Australia.
Price complete, as illustrated above, a iss.
THE COOPER WORKS.
* :
The above Works cover over five acres of floor space,
and are run by competent and skilled engineers whom
we have sent right into the shearing-sheds to study the
requirements of our machinery under actual working
conditions. Our output from these Works now averages
more than 300 Machines for each working day of the
year, and is a standing testimony to the high quality and
fair prices of the Cooper product.
COOPER OIL ENGINES.
We liave over 1000 Cooper
Engines in work throughout
Australia from \ to 25 h.p.
This column demonstrates
how, after constructing an
Engine, we design and build
other Machines especially
adapted to it.
Here is our well-known
Cooper “Little Wonder,” two-
and three-horsepower Engine.
It is designed for durability,
good work and ease of opera-
tion. It is thoroughly and
carefully constructed by skilled
workmen, and is fitted with
the very latest attachments,
including High-tension Mag-
neto, Automatic Lubricators,
Float Feed" Carburetter, and
ample Water-cooling Tank,
which ensures even running
and long life of the engine.
This Engine is easy to start,
and with our book of instruc-
tions a boy can operate it
without difficulty. The price
speaks for itself.
IB*
I
m
il
/
'W\,
2H.P. Stationary Engine, £25. Portable, £32/10/-
3H.P. Stationary Engine, £45. Portable, £55.
This shows the above
Engine built into a two-
stand complete Shearing
Plant, which requires no
special shed or installing,
but is complete
with Grinding
Machine and all
extras ready for
instant work. It
makes an ideal
plant for shearing
from one to five
thousand sheep,
and after the
shearing is fin-
ished the Ma-
chines can be re-
moved and placed
aside, and the
engine used for
other work.
The Price of this Plant, complete, with—
2H.P. Stationary Engine, £5O. Portable, £6O.
3H.P. Stationary Engine, £7O. Portable, £BO.
This deep-well Pump-
ing Plant is specially
constructed to be direct
driven by the above
engines. The engine can
be attached in a few
moments, and the Plant
is ready for use either
on a new well or as
an auxiliary to an
existing windmill. These
plants are strong and
sturdy, thoroughly prac-
tical, and will lift
from 300 to 1200 gallons
of water, according to
depth.
This Pumping Plant,
complete with engine
and attachments, as illus-
trated above —-
With 2H.P. Engine,
£35.
With 3H.P. Engine,
£55.
We also supply special Firewood Saws, Chaffcutters,
etc., tor the. above Engines. See them working at the
Show, or write for full particulars.
Write us to-day, giving: particulars of the work you have to do, and we will send you an estimate of a Plant to suit
your requirements.
COOPER ENGINEERING COMPANY LTD.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney; or
486 Collins Street, Melbourne


4-Cup Egg Frame and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated, em-
bossed border, gilt-lined Cups and
Spoons, 27/6.
Blitter Dish, pure Silver-plated, white
glass lining, complete with Lid and Knife,
20/-
Presentation Folding Biscuit Box, pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, hand-fluted “Shell”
design, £5/12/6.
Honey Jar and Spoon, pure
Silver-plated, richly burnished
Frame, Cut Crystal Glass, 12/6.
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated
Nickel Silver,
gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6.
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, hand engraved
and fluted, 32/6.
Afternoon
Sugar Basin,
Tea stand, comprising handsome Floral China Dish,
Cream Jug, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, gilt
lined, 25/-
Cake Basket, pure Silver-
plated White Metal, handsomely
embossed, 25/“
Serviette Ring,
pure Silver-plated, en-
graved and embossed,
m
Sugar Scuttle and Scoop,
pure Silver-plated, “Thistle”
design, 25/ -
Specimen
Tube, pure
Silver-plated,
on Nickel Sil-
ver, gilt lined,
richly
burnished,
5/6.
Liuncheon Cruet, pure Sil-
ver-plated, Nickel Silver, Out
Crystal Bottles, 20/«
Nut Dish, pure Silver-plated
pierced design, complete with twr
pairs Nut Cracks, 80/-
'
mi
’Mitilii*
Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, hand
soinely engraved, £2 no/.
Oak Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, richly burnished, with
Porcelain Lining, 30/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS 9 Opp. Railway Station, Sydney.
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
2216
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beacons e
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post ring
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Kose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
ihrnnsrknut Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new- 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkreie
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Fiuend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flandhrs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thb
Horsk, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
IQs 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
m
9
m
i
%
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-#!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING GAUDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man F'rom Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer, Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangkp.s, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted Cabinet Makers’ HanDybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron op Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. JH? Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
IIE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DLi •
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEN!
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, l 8
posted. Nkw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford sMi •
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, - s '
Aristotlk, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, comp >
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of
Ring, Is 2d. Guidk to Auctioneering, 2s. W. mcbb
History Court of England, Is 3d post. W'"
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, •
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key t
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. KSr _~ r
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, /s M P
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2s. HOW TO R KA D ,
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassks Advic
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budge
BOOK, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d P 0 d ‘
Bennarp. Macfaddens Works, all at as P •
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers tf
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wifks Han
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. ' *
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nkrvousnk •
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Wkbstkrs Larg
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., i
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moore s Uni •
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016
bound, 10s 6d Dosted. The Secrets of CLimvo W
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music oum
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, b >
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA*


Get an c'liddqA£rfiAic 0 Kodak
for the RASTER HOLIDAYS
Autographic Kodak pictures—because you take each one—are personal to yourself
They enable you to show how you spent your holidays, and to recall every little incident.
a]l^Autoo-iunhic°Kodak llTvf ° f this .s a ® ter holiday last throughout your lifetime is to get
week cikK a vour • besides, you WI H then be able to make splendid snapshots of your
week-ends, 30111 lilends, 30111* home life; your pets and your pastimes. 1
You can learn
to use a Kodak
in Half an Hour,
and prices range from 30/- to €l5/2/-.
The Test Pocket Autographic Kodak takes clear.
Soldier’s Kodak,” and thousands are used at the
Price 30/-.
sharp little pictures 2d x If inches. It is "The
front to-day. Give one to your soldier friend.
The 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera in the world. Wonderfully easy
to operate; takes excellent pictures—postcard size— x inches. Price £5/10/-.
Brownies for the Children from 5/-
Give vour boy or girl a Brownie camera and enable him or her to take jolly snapshots of every
pleasing event. 1
T he No / takes fille little pictures, 2d xlf inches. Price 6/-. There are others from
o/- up to 50/-. All are easy to use.
Get the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker (Si Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven St.
Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St’
N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
Toowoomba;
Wellington,
]p
m
111!
\ :a
WHY NOT BE TALLER?
2/6 per Pair
j post free^
Leather
Cork
Cork Wedge
Felt,
Fastener
Gilbert’s Adjust-
able Heel Cushions
for Ladies and. Ge-
ntlemen. Very easy
and comfortable. Improve the balance of the body. Light
and soft, made of leather, cork and felt, under an ounce.
Adjustable to any height by cork wedge. Doctors strongly
recommend these supports to ease the action of the feet.
State size of boot when ordering. Obtainable only from
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
The Mend is the Strongest Spot in th“ Pot
Adamant Enamel-Ware Cement
Good for Every Sort of Ironware.
Stops a Leak in a Minute. Couldn’t be
Simpler - Just Mir Powder with Water.
Hardens like Iron. Fire-Proof, Water-
Proof You can fill a Big- Hole or a
Small Crack. Mended Place Stronger
than New. Anyone can do it; failure
impossible. Package Is. 6d., enough to
stop Dozens of Leaks; Two Packages
for Half-a-Crown, posted anywhere.
THE UNION GO. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Motor-
cycling
at its
best.
IT will pay you to remember that
it is not necessary to have a heavy
high powered machine. The B.S.A.
4jh.p. Motor Bicycle develops suffi-
cient power to take you anywhere solo
or sidecar. It is most economical to
run, simple to control, and by its won-
derful reliability consistently maintains
the well known B.S.A. reputation.
RIDE A
MOTORBI CYCLE
Fitted with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT THREE-SPEED GEAR.
p 5
AT
as a
“THOROUGH LY
BRITISH."
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle
List Free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co.
Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
■&A
Agents : MILLEDGE BROS. LTD., George Street, S.vdney.
ANTHONY HORDERN’S UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Huilt of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free
B heel on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by FRANCIS BIRTEES. £l2 10s. Write for Price Fist,
post free.
ANTHONY HORPERN & SONS LTP.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
=Clean, Reliable
Heating' System
,
.
Enjoy the snug hug of cheerful warmth
without smoke, dust or soot. These
tarnish the beauty of furniture and
tapestries, make plaster or paint dingy
and unsightly, and necessitate much
needless drudgery in keeping the home
thoroughly clean.
Ideal Boilers
and Radiators
make every nook and corner of the home
genially cosy and require no more care-
taking than to run a stove for one room.
They are equally suitable for any build-
ing, old or new, cottage or mansion.
Make your home a haven of comfort
before the drear, draughty days again
show how cheerless and costly your
present heating method is. You will
not then be at the mercy of chill, ex-
posed rooms, nor will half the heat of
your coal go up the chimney.
The Radiators come in many handsome designs, and are
greatly admired. They are fed from pipes connecting
with an Ideal Boiler, and can be placed in cold, draughty
places. The heat can be regulated as required.
Come in and investigate the sterling merits
and genuine economy of this dependable,
up-to-date Heating System, or write to-
day for free book, which is full of big
facts you ought to know.
€6
DANRS,
99
Otherwise
John Oanks
& Son Propy.
Ltd.
The House for Heat end Light,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney-


THE FARMER, THE IMPORTING
CRAZE, ARMAGEDDON AND
SUNDRIES.
[By Harrison Owen.]
It is a lamentable fact that, despite Arma-
geddon and notwithstanding the brave talk
of W. M. Hughes and others, this country’s
imports show no signs of diminish-
ing. There is still a large section of
the community that will hug to its chest
the shirt from overseas, and place upon the
shining expanse of its bald cranium the
imported top-hat, rendering praise unto
Jehovah for that it was born with a mind
above “local trash.” This attitude is deserv-
ing of rebuke at the best of times, but just
at present, when it is the duty of every loyal
citizen to see that his cash is spent in a
direction that will benefit the nation as well
as liimself. the attitude calls for something
sudden with boiling oil in it. Every penny
spent on goods manufactured abroad is
money partly—indeed largely—lost to Aus-
tralia. We have the goods—which are some-
times nigger-made and frequently the pro-
duct of the gentle sweater and other char-
acters whom our Governments have been at
pains to suppress—but the foreigner has the
coin, and great to him is the comfort thereof.
Moreover, the profit he acquires enables him
to build up a fund which he uses for pushing
a “sales” propaganda, so that he may extract
from the misguided Australian buyer more
of the coin of the realm which is so urgently
needed locally. On the other hand, if we
purchase goods made in our own country we
have the goods, and the money remains in
Australia; while all that the foreigner has
is a dull ache in the pit of the stomach, spots
before the eyes and a feeling depression
between drinks.
* * . * *
To become self-dependent a community must
go near to producing and manufacturing all
its principal wants. The home market not
only consumes a large share of those pro-
ducts which constitute the great bulk of our
exports, but it also consumes, and is indeed
the only consumer, of a thousand and one
side products of our forests, farms, orchards,
market gardens, sheep and cattle ranches,
mines and sundries. Consider therefore the
misguidedness of the farmer who buys a
foreign plough or other implement if he can
obtain a locally-made one of equal quality
at the same price or thereabouts. In the
one case all the money he spends—with the
exception of the infinitesimal amount
absorbed in paying for lumping the cases
from the ship to the wharf, lodging them in
a warehouse and other details—goes away
from the country and remains away with
tremendous enthusiasm. On the other hand,
by purchasing the local article he aids
materially in the development of the country.
The whole of the raw material used in the
manufacture of implements can be produced
in Australia. Iron and steel in their vari-
ous _ forms of bars, angles, plates, sheets,
castings and so forth, are already being
made in Australia, but not in such quanti-
ties as the patriotic citizen would wish. At
the Iron Knob in South Aus. and in Tassy
are immense deposits of iron ore. In the
Ma State, at Lithgow and Newcastle, large
blast furnaces have been set to work for
the production of pig iron and wrought iron
and steel in its simpler forms of blooms and
billets; while in Sydney and Melbourne
are rolling mills for transforming these bulks
into any section or size required by the
implement maker. The patriotic farmer can
help on all these great industries and at
the same time ensure a bigger home market
for his own produce simply by specifying
“Australian made” when purchasing any
plant or machinery for his farm. And not
only the iron industry will thus benefit.
Timber is largely used in making chaff-
cutters, grain drills, harvesters and other
agricultural implements, and it has been
proved over and over again that for this class
of work there is nothing to equal the Aus-
tralian woods. Hoop pine from Bananaland.
blackwood from Tasmania, beech from
Maoriland and a number of hardwoods from
almost all the States are better adapted to
this work than any imported timber.
But when the iron and timber industries
have been cited, we have only begun to indi-
cate the directions in which Australia and
the Australian worker will benefit by the
purchase by the farmer of locally-made
goods., There are, for instance, the implement
factories, which already employ several
thousand men—a number which, without
difficulty, can be increased tenfold when the
Australian agriculturist gives up importing
from abroad a million pounds’ worth of
implements annually and entrusts this work
to his kinsfolk at home. As an instance of
the value to a community of a manufacturing
industry, consider the case of the Sunshine
Harvester Works in Victoria. If all farmers
had been mistrustful of local manufactures
and afflicted with a fantastic craving for
dragging machinery over thousands of miles
of ocean, instead of having it made from
Australian steel and Australian timber
almost alongside their own farms, the Sun-
shine works, if they existed at all. would
probably be of an extent that would cover
an area of land about the size of a postage
stamp or the mind of a foreign-trader, in-
stead of, as is now the case, consisting of 26
acres of factories. When the importing
craze has been finally stamped out and the
wail of the foreign-trader soundeth like unto
the squeak of an anaemic sparrow on the top-
most peak of the Australian Alps, there will
be. room for a dozen Sunshines. And just
think what a dozen Sunshines would mean
to Australia 1
As a regular thing there are a thousand
men employed at the Sunshine Works, and
at busy times there are double that number
on the job. When the families of the workers
are included, this means that easily 5000
persons are directly supported by this one
factory. This means also that there are
5000 mouths waiting to munch the produce
of Australian farms, and 5000 bodies wait-
ing to be clothed with garments made of
Australian wool, not to mention the tre-
mendous thirst that has to be quenched with
beer brewed from Australian hops and wines
made from locally-grown grapes. When, by
purchasing his farm machinery at home, the
farmer obtains these customers in return,
why in the names of Jupiter, Odin. Cincin-
natus, King O’Malley and all the gods in
the Greek mythology should he give his
work to 5000 artisans living *in the United
Shakes, or some other country of unbounded
neutrality? Why send gold to other coun-
tries when it can be kept here to
hold up our gold margin against our
paper currency? Still keeping to the ex-
ample we have chosen, it may be stated that
Sunshine pays from £150.000 to £200,000
annually in wages, a large share of which
must return to the pockets of the farmer.
It simply can’t help itself. It is one of those
things that just happen—the same as the
rising of the sun, the putting out of the milk-
jug and the regular arrival of the rent man.
A large share of this money must go in the
purchase of bread and meat, the harmless,
necessary spud, the delectable cabbage and
the cauliflower and apricot that maketh glad
the heart of man. This is true reciprocity.
The worker of Chicago does not eat Aus-
tralian meat, fruit and vegetables, but uses
the stuff produced by his own people—that
is to say, the people who buy the implements
he makes, except a surplus that his boss
dumps in Australia and other countries that
have the misfortune to own inhabitants
afflicted with the importing lunacy. Also the
neutral manufacturer in Chicago does not
send to Australia for the timber he uses in
his implements. He’§ not such a gordarn
fool. But Australian timber is used in the
local harvester. At time of writing there are
over a million feet of Australasian timber
seasoning at the Sunshine works. Every
year SOO.OOO super feet of this timber is
shaped, planed, buzzed and sandpapered
locally. It is the best timber in the world
for its purpose, and it keeps a regiment of
axemen and sawyers going in Australian
forests, changing it from trees to planks.
Again, over 60 miles of leather belting are
required annually to equip the Sunshine’s
machines, and this is where an army of
tanners, curriers and leather workers—all
Australians, all supporters of the Australian
farmer —gets a look in.
In Australia we are badly in need of sonje
big manufacturing plants—and we may need
them more than ever in the days ahead. In
August, 1914, the Defence Department re-
quired a number of transport waggons, and.
what is more, wanted them in a hurry. The
Sunshine works up to then had never made
a waggon, but samples were sent along, and
in a couple of months 800 waggons with
the Sunshine brand on them were on the way
to the Front. Then came a demand for
entrenching tools, stirrup-irons, harness
mountings and other articles which had not
previously been manufactured here in whole-
sale quantities. The job had to be done —
and Sunshine did it. Its huge plant turned
out the goods to the satisfaction of an army
corps of vigilant inspectors, and in this way
Australia was able to equip its forces with
these very necessary articles, at a time when
J. Bull was much too busy attending to the
wants of his own armies and those of his
Allies to be able to do the job on our behalf.
Now the Sunshine works are turning out
shells also, and a large building is in course
of ei-ection to accommodate special lathes and
other machines, so that the work may be
done on a large scale without interfering
with the steady production of agricultural
implements. A plant such as this is nothing
less than a national asset when the war god
clangs his gong.
It would be a good idea for a party of
representative farmers to visit Sunshine and
be shown over the works. It would help
them to realise what their support of Aus-
tralian manufactures means to Australian
industry—and incidentally to themselves.
Sunshine was a hamlet called Braybrook
until McKay’s works were established there.
The one-horse hamlet quickly became a thriv-
ing township and renamed itself “Sunshine.”
Here the works, covering 26 acres, are estab-
lished, and here every part of the seed drills,
harvesters and other implements turned out
by McKay are manufactured —right down
to the screws and bolts. There is a stagger-
ing conglomeration of machinery—machines
that punch holes in steel much more easily
than a tramguard punches a hole in your
ticket, machines for twisting iron into all
kinds of fantastic shapes, machines that take
hold of odd bits of metal, useless for all prac-
tical purposes, and roll them into useful
lengths, just as a housewife takes an amor-
phous mass of dough and rolls it into a thin
sheet to form the basis of a pie; machines, in
fact, for doing pretty well everything except
milking a cow or dealing four aces in a hand
of poker. Around the works a town has
grown as the result of the Australian farmer
buying Australian implements. Soon after
leaving the railway station one comes to a
beautifully-kept bowling-green fitted with arc-
lights to enable playing by night; this place
is leased by McKay to his employees at an
annual rental of 2s. 6d. sterling." Sunshine
too is a town without slums or hovels favor-
able to the growth of the tuberculosis germ,
the opium-eater, the fan-tan player,
of absurdly easy virtue and other distressing
circumstances. In the residential part of
the town may be seen neat, commodious
villas, standing in large blocks of land, with
flower beds, vegetable gardens and poultry
runs; for every worker is given the chance
to buy his own house and land from the boss
on dead easy terms. The town is surrounded
by broad paddocks, and the population—
which numbers about 2000—is as healthy
locking as could be desired. This crowd must
consume a fair quantity of Australian pro-
ducts annually. Incidentally it is taking a
hand in Armageddon, apart from the manu-
facture of munitions, for Sunshine has sent
over 200 soldiers to make things as unplea-
sant as possible for the Hun and the Turk.
Altogether Sunshine is really a rather excep-
tional kind of place, although why it should
be is a mystery. There seems no good reason
why there should not be a couple of dozen
Sunshines in Australia, and there will be
when the man on the land —that is to say
as much of him as is guilty of the offence—
drops the importing habit and buys nothing
but Australian goods. There is "plenty of
room for dozens of factories as large as
Sunshine. And as the local factories
increase and multiply, the prices of their
products must inevitably decrease ; for if a
plough, say. can be manufactured for £2O in
lots of a hundred, it can obviously be made
for a pound or two less when the output
reaches thousands.— Advt.
Safety-Comfort-Saving
Safety is built into every Firestone Tyre
through skilled and careful construction in
the largest exclusive tyre plant in America.
Comfort through extra quantity and supreme
qualitv of fine, resilient rubber exclusively
"firestone
Economy through the
mileage and service that
such material and experi-
ence mean.
Saving in the price because
Firestone methods of
marketing are so managed
that you get whatever you
need in tyre service with
least handling and expense.
Your dealer has Firestone
Tyres, Tubes and Acces-
sories for Automobiles, Mo-
torcycles and Bicycles, in all
types and sizes; or he can get
them easily.
Distributors
Most
Miles
per
Shilling
y,*
a
V-
-0&.
\Yf«
s
>
New South Wales
Grimley, Ltd.
Sydney
West Australia
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Perth
South Australia
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.
Adelaide
Victoria
Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd.
Melbourne
FIRESTONE TIRE AND RUBBER CO.
“America’s Largest Exclusive Tyre
and Rim Makers”
Akron, Ohio, U. S. A.
Branches and Dealers Everywhere
Factory Representative:
W. E. Ludlow, care of American Consul, Sydney
THE PIES REVERSE GEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable, as they are jig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class workmanship, combined with right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the market.
GIES Gears are not an experiment, they are the result of
10 years’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30,000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
DEALERS: We wish to secure responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represent the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The GIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit any make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, the GIES will be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. Write for our special dealers
proposition to-day. Cable Address:
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Gl ESGEAR
DETROIT.
WILLIAM MITCHELL(PENS) LTP
6°
8
0
XI
E
S
PEN MAKERS TO li.M. THE KING,
'BY APPOINTMENT.
ORIGINAL MAKERS OF THE
6
B
0
X
E
S
POINTS IN
a
DEGREES
EX-FINE
FINE
MEDIUM
BROAD
<ORSO!NAU POINT.)
EX-BROAD
TJ|AD£ *\A»*
MADE IN
5
COLORS
BLACK
BLUE
GILT
GALVANIZED
WHITE
(METAL it CGATKD.’
PENS TO SUIT ALL WRITERS
ASSORTED SAMPLE BOXES of 24 PATTERNS from ALL STATIONERY STORES.
£
m
V
mm
mm.
m
(j
-4g£:
%««*— fZ
m
m
-X
w
For Writing Home
A FILLER IS BOUND TO GET
BROKEN AT THE FRONT.
The Onoto needs no filler ; it fills itself from any
ink supply, and cleans the nib while filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position. You send
it out to your friend at the Front full of ink ready
for immediate use.
The nilitary-size Onoto Pen is just the right size
for a soldier's pocket.
Need*
no
filler.
Onoto
B!! Pen
From
12/-
THOMAS DE LA RUE CO . Lid., Bunhill Road,
London. E.C., or the Austtalasian Managing Agents,
NORMAN BAKER o' LONGHURST, 50 York
Street, Sydney.


Why Work?
Do it Electrically.
By using' G.E. and B.T.H. Eledlrical Apparatus
Generally You Can Do Anything Electrically.
Prices and full particulars obtainable from tbe
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.),, Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co.. Ltd.. Launceston; Oliver & Oliver. Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
r 4/10, 7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—■
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
n -
Made in
8,10,12,
H, 16.
20,24
and 28
gauge
Loaded in London with the
popular English powders
“NEW CLUB”
Shotgun Cartridges
are low in price, high in the results
they give, and in the estimation of
shooters. These cartridges are
loaded with the popular black pow-
ders, are thoroughly waterproofed
and unexcelled for general use.
Obtainable from leading dealers every-
where —catalogue 'post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Company
Woolworth Building. New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
■
And every other solo
instrument —piano,
'cello, flute, oboe—
they are all ‘ His Master’s
Voice ” Cabinet Grand
Gramophone—most versa-
tile instrument of the epoch.
When you hear Elman play
Schubert’s “ Ave Maria” in
your drawing room, you hear
a Strad speak, a virtuoso
display his soul, in a work
of God-sent inspir tion.
The poignant themes, the
celestial harmonies of the
9
“His Masters Voice”
'double-stopping*—they are
yours to hear and enjoy for
ever and a day. J ust hear
this record to-day at a
dealer’s. Its beauty is
indescribable
“GRAMOPHONE
ACCREDITED DEALERS EVERYWHERE,
“ GRAMOPHONE ” —Registered Trade Mark


IfmUvcftM 'ddotel
SyDPH ELY. IN.S W.
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden, as in previous seasons, is still tjie
rendezvous of the Elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon
Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties and all semi open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular, central and
up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones in bedrooms com-
municating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more than
favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application..
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours'by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”— will begin to do
you good the moment, you take it —at any
hour —and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps -
accumulations of undigested food, ana s
lates the liver to assist in relieving lp „ r
bowels. By evening the tongue wul be
again and the overflow of bile swept a ’
you will be yourself again, with a gooa l; K
tite and digestion. This is the me
which does such wonders for children
ages; but it is every bit as good tor ? '
up people, and there are full directio
every age with the bottle. Take care •
the genuine, as there are imitations o
market Ask for “Califig”-California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the nam •
trade mark of the California Fig rl « rrn n
All chemists sell “Califig”—California,
of Figs—in bottles of two sizes, l/tu ‘ ro
1/9. 1
POLITICAL
POINTS
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
Edward I. presented his infant son, the first
Prince of Wales, to the Welsh chiefs at Carnarvon,
holding him up in his arms and saying, “This is your
man.” —English tradition.
ASQUITH : “This is your man —devil take
him!”
.
£2®S»ViL P X e Kar m, i d 9l3 a
they made £250.000,000, despite the loss of
many ships. Freight charges average now
four to five times more than those of two
years ago. If the English people want food-
stuffs from Australia their shippers charge
them 110 s. for what cost 265. 3d. before the
war. If they w T ant grain from Atlantic
ports, they pay 18s. 6d., as against Is. 9d.
in 1914. This is what Lever calls “freedom
of the seas.” It is clearly a case of mis-
spelling “seas.” .
“We in Australia are looking to the
mother country for a sign,” says William
Hughes in England. Yes, that’s so. Three
O’s, in fact.
From N.S.W. Hansard report of the
Totalisator Bill debate :
We cannot shut our ears to the rumors that are
going about all over the place with regard to
transactions with bookmakers. There is a stigma
on this Parliament. Nearly 99 per cent, of the
people outside believe that bookmakers have. ... etc.
The Bulletin vonders vat he knows. His
name was Levy.
It is already quite clear that the N.S.W.
Fair Rents Act does more harm than good
to the people •it was supposed to benefit.
Naturally the worst cases would rush to the
court first; yet not more than one in five
applicants has been granted relief. In other
cases it was shown that the landlord was
entitled to charge more; and though of
course the Court doesn’t make orders that
way, the landlord gets the tip that he can
safely 7 give the screw another turn. Mean-
time, while hardly anybody is getting
relief and while quite as many are running
a good chance of getting the other thing, the
speculator won’t take the risks, and house-
building around Sydney has almost stopped.
Certainly the Superintendent of the Labor
Bureau has assured the Government that
it isn’t due to the Act —it is all the fault of
the war. But the Inspector of Fisheries
hasn’t given his opinion on the financial
matter yet.
Part I. of a Forestry Handbook just issued
by the N. S. Wales Government is a useful
publication, but it doesn’t contain a para-
graph to this effect
One of the great national industries of Australia
has been the destruction of trees. This has been
carried on with splendid thoroughness, and is still
being pursued. In other countries the disastrous
consequences of similar lunacy have been commented
upon by hundreds of observers, but no one is taking
much notice in Australia, mainly because there are
no votes in checking what has elsewhere been proved
to be recklessness in its wildest form. It is easier
to talk about reforestation; but as reforestation is
absolutely impossible on high country from which
the bush has been cleared, much of the talk is non-
sense. The waste of Australian vegetation has been
profitable to a few individuals. It is, however,
going to cause the Australian youngster a whole
heap of difficulty; but that is his funeral —we’ve
got our own to attend to.
When telling Holman the other day that
it was time to hurry up and do something
to the venereal disease horror, a deputation
suggested a Royal Commission. Of course
Holman promised to see . about getting one.
What for? The facts are
well known —and abomin-
able. A commission merely
means delay, and delay in
dealing with venereal disease
is the last thing Australia
can safely tolerate. Every
member of Parliament knows
the character of the job he
is shirking and knows what
ought to be done. Not only
was venereal disease ram-
pant through out the Com-
monwealth prior to the war,
but fresh consignments are
coming to hand ; and that a
Government should even
think of further delay is an
illustration of how spineless
a party Adminstration may
be.
If they were to be charged
the cost of recording their
votes the 43 mutton-birding
electors who balloted at
Babel Island in the recent
Tasmanian election would
have to part up over £2 per
head. The presiding officer
was to take the box a 20
miles’ trip to catch a
steamer, but he could not get
a horse for the job, and no
one would undertake to walk
and carry the encumbrance.
So he stayed quietly at home
till the Government spent
£7O in chartering a special
steamer to go and fetch the
thing. The whole of the
Speck’s complicated election
machinery had been hung up for four days
by the time it got back,
From the Gallery :
Holman s latest weekly threat to resign was over
the Trades Union Bill. The measure proposed, among
other things, to legalise levies on unionists to main-
tain the World, the Labor daily which the hard-
-<■ “ « <*■ **-
eminent, having thrown overboard nearly every
plank of the Labor platform, isn’t bursting with
anxiety to welcome the World. At any rate, when
the Council cut out that provision from the Bill, the
Government decided to accept the amendment. But
the hanging-up of the World won’t suit some unions
at all; so there was a row. Later on, in Caucus, the
road-roller was of course produced, and all differences
were smoothed out. Incidentally the whole Bill was
squashed. But that doesn’t matter. Nothing mat-
ters so long as the party keeps its job.
DID HIS BEST.
INTERFERING OLD SAINT: “Oh, my poor
boy, when you were tempted to get
through the fence you should have said,
‘Get thee behind me, Satan.’”
GENIAL YOUNG SINNER: “So I did, mum,
and he pushed me through!”
The Commonwealth Ministry is bending
its mind to the great problems before the
nation with splendid courage. A day or two
after the CM. loaf was proclaimed in Vic-
toria exclusive intelligence reached Cabinet
of a terrible occurrence in a Mel-
bourne suburb. It was alleged that a little
girl went to the shop of a local baker for a
41b. loaf, “but was given a 21b. loaf for
3|d., and told to go outside and come back
for another one, for which she was also
charged Ministers immediately gave
this matter “earnest consideration with a
view to future action.” Later on, when the
little girl’s ha'penny has been attended to,
the nation’s millions may get a hearing.
Treasurer Higgs was waited on last week
by a deputation which told him that the
Commonwealth had thrown 3000 men out
of work by stopping the export of coal, and
they wanted a job. Higgs, of course, said
he was very sorry, but it was the States’
business to look after the unemployed.
Nobody flung at him the obvious reply that
Australia is importing over £5,000,000 worth
of foreign goods every month, and that it is
the Commonwealth’s business to prevent
unemployment by imposing such duties that
most of these things would be made on the
spot.
Still another ravenous tiger turns out to
be nothing but a quiet, useful, old family
cow. Tasmania having for the third time
elected one lot of members to do something,
and an almost equal lot to prevent them
doing it, the S. M. Herald says:—
Her way out, as our own and Queensland’s, will
be by Unification, and more and more that remedy
appeals to the taxpayers who have to dance to
present music.
The taxes did it. As long as the appeal was
to the Herald’s head, Unification was kept
out on the mat. When it touched the pocket,
the sensible fellow was asked in to the hall.
Still he’s in; and that’s the thing of import-
ance.
Every column in the papers shrieks of the
folly of our present system of Government
by Seven Parliaments. The other day it
was the Divorce Court report. A badly-
matched couple had done everything to earn
a separation except keep to one side of the
Murray. The wretched rovers had
dared to travel backwards and forwards
between Melbourne and Sydney, just as
though they were disreputable vagrants like
Federal politicians or High Court Judges,
and so the N. S. Wales Divorce Solomon had
to pass them out on the question of domi-
cile. Unification would put an end to all
that nonsense.
Efforts are being made
to start R. R. Walker, of
Windsor, in pursuit of the
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
seat against Brinsley
Hall, the silent sitting
member. R. B. Walker’s
father sat for the Ilawkes-
bury in the days when
politicians called them-
selves patriots and Chris-
tians ; but eventually he
drifted into the House of
Elderly Fatmen, where
he remained until the last
Division Bell rang. ll a ll
was a very progressive
farmer until he got the
idea that Nature intended
him to be a politician. It
was a fearfully wrong
notion, but he got a job
on the Public Works Com-
mittee, all the same.
The Sydney Chamber
of Commerce has been
looking for a list of enemy
firms and of those con-
victed of trading with
the enemy. The other
day the official search
party arrived at the Dept,
of External Affairs, and
felt quite sure of success
at last. But it didn’t
know what) eminently
practical people these
political ant i-German
traders are, or it wouldn’t
have been so stunned
when it was told that
there wasn’t such a list
in existence.
The Tasmanian Government’s mild scheme
0 f fighting syphilis by establishing dispen-
saries and starting syphilis wards to which
victims can go for treatment if they feel
inclined is not making much headway. The
Hospital Boards are not rushing the idea,
and contend that the few hundreds a year
which the Government proposes to spend
is inadequate to do anything worth while.
Some members of the Boards may be in-
clined to the ostrich policy of hiding their
heads in the sand (like the local newspaper
which never mentions syphilis but talks of
“contagious disease”) : yet it is a fact that
the problem is too big for the Government’s
methods and will have to be handled on
bolder lines. It is something though to have
got an admission that it needs to be handled
a - all>
WASTE.
The movement that has been started in Melbourne
for devising means to check the growing cost or gov-
ernment in Australia is one that should spread through
out the Commonwealth... .If anything is to be clone in
this matter, the people must be prepared to do it
for themselves. They can expect no willing help
from the politicians. —Sydney TELEORAPH.
THE SUPERFLUOUS POLITICIAN : “Eh—
what!"
Labor being definitely in a minority of one.
Tasmanian Premier Earle gets out of Ins jo
and Lee will wrestle with the situation in
the cause of Liberalism. Earle suggests
another election on the ground that be does
not think that either party can carry on-
The question to be really decided is wne
the 30 members elected to the Assemblj c
run the State’s affairs. If they cannot* t
another election might be justifiable,
only on condition that every blessed on
them was disqualified from getting m
road any more.
A CYCLE OF ELECTION METHODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He also mentioned the Willoughby election, and
said that he was instructed by the Minister, Mr.
Griffith, to get out as quickly as possible all the tram
rails he could. There were no tram rails in stock,
so he sent out heavy railway rails and they all had
to be collected later.
—Evidence at N.S.W. Petrol Commission.
Our old election ways were somewhat crude;
Blue metal largely figured in the game.
We bashed with bottles and triumphant stood
Vaunting our candidate’s resplendent fame.
The ballot and not fists might end the fray,
But bold the wight that would our claims deny;
And small mementoes we might bear away —
Perchance a ruined nose or purple eye.
Times changed and with them passed our methods
wild,
Gentleness reigned and all the world was peace;
The soft-tongued candidates arose and smiled
And no one sought the aid of the police.
Nothing we bore from that mild fight away;
Upon the winner in the strife was laid
A task that kept him busy many a day
Of taking back the promises he made.
Again times change. Now at the ballot’s call
The drays get busy up and down the road.
On rails of steel the parties rise and fall
And Smith gets'in at last by half-a-load.
The votes are counted. Gather rap the spoil.
The aftermath of victory is plain.
Once more the drays are at their solid toil
And bear the beaten metal home again.
And thus from height to height we still ascend
And nobler purpose fires us as we climb;
The public works must corkscrew round and bend
To meet the needs of each election-time.
The age of stone is.gone; the brazen lie
Gives place to larger falsehood wrought in steel;
The age of gold is next —Who’s game to try
The voters with a solid cash appeal ?
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


One
Shilling
Each.
Ninety
Splendid
Novels.
Is. Id.
Posted.
Australian Novels
Published by
NS W. Bookstall Co Ltd,
476 George Street, Sydney.
Tlie novels mentioned below are only a few of the splendid
stones included in the famous “Bookstall” Series of
Australian fiction. Over 1,300,000 volumes have already
been sold, which eclipses all other Australian publishing
rppnrflo **
A
BACHELOR’S WlFE —by M. FORItEST.
A fascinating stor.v of the adventures of an
grant girl who becomes stranded in an A
nconventional in plot and treatment.
English
ustraliau
immi-
city.
BASE BRANDS—by 11. M. SOMER.
*l**l I,ush stor y, dealing with the sheep-
stealing and cattle-dufhng days.
VBIQITE —by CLARENCE W. MARTIN.
A cleverly-worked-out detective story.
SODGER SANDY’S BAIRN —by A. BATHGATE.
A novel of Otago (N.Z.) of 50 years ago, bristling
exciting episodes of the gold rush.
with
THE TRADER —by CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON.
A thrilling story of attempted settlement in Papua.
SOUTH SEA SINNERS— by ARTHUR CROCKER.
An exciting South Seas story of exceptional merit.
SCOTTY MAC, SHEARER —by R. S. TAIT.
A series of rollicking bush sketches.
( HANDLER OF CORRALINGA —by R. J. CASSIDY.
The interesting experiences of a Bohemian of the bush.
THE HAUNTED SHANTY— by THOS. E. SPENCER.
A series of 15 delightful camp-fire stories.
The ideal novels to send to Australian Soldiers abroad.
Obtainable from all Bookstalls and Booksellers in the
Commonwealth.
Write to the Publishers for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
iimiiimiiiimmmuiimiiimiiimimniiiiiiiiiiniiimmHintimiiiiiiHMminiiiiiiiiiiitjjmiiiiimiinmmmi.mimiimitmiimyiiimiiti
Westinghouse
Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
• r lO<JiC
V
Simplicity of detail.
Even turning moment.
Accessibility of all moving parts.
Minimum fuel consumption.
Low maintenance costs.
Absolute reliability.
Westinghouse Oil Engines are particularly suited for irrigation and
farm work, requiring no attention after starting up. Being fitted
with oil feed pump (of special construction) and fuel atomiser,
ensures complete combustion of fuel and high economy.
Westinghouse Gas Engines give highly satisfactory and economical
service in driving generators for small electric lighting installations,
industrial and agricultural machinery, etc., as proved by the large
number now operating in all parts of the world.
Send your enquiries to nearest office.
rgtinoliougr
Manchester
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:—
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS;—
Standard Waygood Hercules Ltd..
77, King Street. Sydney.
Elder. Shenton & Co.. Ltd..
William Street. Perth.
Elder. Smith & Co.. Ltd.,
27 —31, Currie Street. Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd..
84 —88, William Street. Melbourne.
IIIMMIIIIIIIIIIIIMM
Works -Traffford Park, Manchester. England.
>m 11 miiim u 11 in 11 m 11. iitmi i n i niiiii i mil liiiut im i u uniniiii jimu 11 mltr i n 11 m<n i' 1 11 mi
ORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is needed.
L
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,'
and Malt). Keeps
for years and never
become' stale or loses
any of its admirable j
qualities. It is made ,
in a moment, any-]
where. Only water]
In hot climates it isj
invaluable.
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
/
"ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
Clips a Horse
in 30 Minutes
A child
can turn
it.
*
a
liuunxiv
. Iml
lulu
1111 l
Money
Save Time,
and Labor.
Prominent Veterinary Surgeons will tell you that the harder a horse works
the more need there is for clipping.
Long hair holds the perspiration, and in changeable weather leaves the
animal open to cold dangers, whereas a short coat dries quickly.
The money-making, money-saving way of clipping horses is by using a good
Machine. The Hand-power Clipper we sell is moderately priced, and soon pays
for itself.
Clip half a dozen horses and the Machine is paid for.
All the help needed is someone to turn the handle.
By the outlay of 42/6, Horse Owners, Blacksmiths, etc., will be in possession
of a Clipper that represents great Saving of Time, Money and Labor.
Some of the Features of the “Stewart” Horse Clipper.
The base is designed to be strictly rigid and
substantial.
Stands firmly on the floor, and gives splen-
did support to the balance of the machine.
The upright is in two parts, for conveni-
ence in taking the machine down and packing
it into small space.
Gears are all cut from solid steel bar.
This Clipper is equipped with ball-bearings,
almost entirely doing away with friction,
which enables a child to turn the handle
with ease.
Flexible shaft is six-foot long, reaching
all parts of the horse easily.
The Clipper knife runs easier and clips
faster than any other knife used on Clipping
Machines.
Clipping Plates are of first quality, and
are carefully ground, hardened and polished.
Write for pamphlet giving full details
regarding the “Stewart,” the only reliable
Clipper at such a price.
MS-PKersoift)
Ltd.
For Toois for All Trades,
Collins St., Melbourne, & Bathurst St., Sydney
Body - building power
proved equal to from
10 to 20 times the
amount of Bovril taken.
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
m
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
——
Harvey’s
-v Sole Agents :
Whisky
, Redfern, Sydney.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.’’ 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
Bethmaun-Hollweg forgets that False
hood and Treachery are foul fiends whicn
eventually turn and rend the master emp •
ing them. Wisdom abhors villainy, esp
ally the wisdom of King George
topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
Government Notices, -
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 6th April, 1916-
Tenders for the Supply of Machine!*) and
Accessories for 30 B.H.P. Motor
Launches.
T
lENDERS will be received, subject to
the conditions 6f "Tendering,; untir r-
noon on Monday, Ist May, 1916, fo
supply of Machinery and Accessory
30 b.h.p. Motor Launches for a P ell
three years.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Commonwealth of Australia Gazl -
obtainable at any post office, or rro . *
Director of Navy Contracts,
the Navy, Melbourne ; the Naval Staff U ’
Edgecliff (Sydney), Brisbane, Largs
(S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
N.S.W. Assembly threw uut the farcical
Totalisator Bill which was finally handed to it —this
time by five votes. Whereupon the Bill was wheeled
out to the ash-barrel, and, being in an advanced
state of decay, the cover was firmly fixed on the
receptacle. But it left a horrid smell behind it.
Cetigne put ftp another good race at Rose-
hill on Saturday, downing Woorak at w.f.a. in the
Rawson Stakes, and running the mile and a furlong
in “53-J,” which is only half a tick outside the record
for the event registered by the flying Bobrikoff in
1910. Woorak led into the straight with a good two
lengths to spare. It was then that Cetigne com-
menced to argue the point, and Woorak doesn’t like
argument after a mile has been left behind. At the
distance the Grafton colt was alongside him, and
in half a dozen strides had him settled. Still,
Woorak’s gallop was nothing to make his supporters
for the Doncaster Mile despondent. Giru, Reputa-
tion, Patrobas and Traquette were among the
starters, but no one was observed dumping much
cash on them.
«• * * *
On recent running it looks a guinea to a
gooseberry on Cetigne beating Patrobas in the
A.J.C. St. Leger, though if this paper had a goose-
berry it would hang on to the vegetable. The Vic.
Derby and Melbourne Cup winner doesn’t seem for-
ward enough On the other hand, Cetigne was never
better. The way he squelched Woorak in Rosehill
was as good as anything of the kind could be. Patro-
bas beat Cetigne in Melbourne, but the Sydney colt
had been hard at work for a long time before that,
and should really have been having a rest. Apropos,
Qetigne’s owner, George Barnett, should be given
three cheers for pulling the horse out of Doncaster
Handicap at an early date, thus setting an example
which others should follow, but seldom do. Solid
wads of Commonwealth notes would have been
wagered on Grafton's fine son for the mile had he
been left in after Saturdaj’’s run.
* * * *
As a win with one of his imported prads
was due to Sam Hordern, Chat landed the Rosehill
Parramatta Mile on Saturday after a desperate
struggle with an outsider, Kolapore. Chat, a four-
years’-old stallion by Henry the First, stirred punters
to rude words last June by winning a race at Rand-
wick when few r of them realised that he was in it
until the number went up. Sam Hordern has
brought a number of horses to Australia. About the
best of them was Brunhilda, and she wasn’t much
chop. Last year the same owner bought Onazer
under the belief that he would win a good stake.
Nothing doing so far, and nothing likely to be doing
for some time further.
* » * *
Jimmy Pike, at one time the most suc-
cessful jockey riding in Sydney, returned to the
winning list at Rosehill on Saturday, after a long-
vacation. Pike was aboard Poitrina, which gave 29
other two-year-olds a continuous view of her tail.
Punters in these parts study post positions with a
solemn intentness worthy of better things. Poitrina
was favorite at four to one against before No. 29 was
hoisted-against her name. She then blew back three
points. But it didn’t make any difference. The
first out was first home. Pike’s reputation was
made when he was apprenticed to trainer Kelso, and
his best deeds in that stable were performed on Son of
the Marsh (imp.), who always ran in a rogue’s badge.
Strangely enough, Poitrina is one of Kelso’s string.
Governor Galway, of South Aus., has
decided to follow the King and the G.-G., and attend
no more race-meetings while the war is on. It is
difficult to see what good this move can do to any-
bodv: but, at any rate, it is a real and not a con-
ventional sacrifice in the latest case. Onkaparinga
and the two Cup meetings are just coming on in
Adelaide, and Gov. Galway thoroughly enjoys racing.
In fact at his first Melbourne Cup he was the only one
of the numerous Excellencies present to back his
fancy.
* * * . *
One of the best races ever seen in Maori-
land happened the other day when Marc Antony
snatched the Timaru Cup right on the post by a nose
while Gnome and Fender were dead-heatin" for
second. Whereupon various punters who had backed
the wrong ’uns loudly cursed the universe and
declared that a blind man could see the whole thing
was a fake.
* * * *
“Spreader”: There are two outstanding
reasons why imported horses are in the boom as
sires and -racers just now. No. 1: Owing to an
ignorant, stinking-fish policy, the owner of a harem
of choice mares usually puts an imported nag at the
head of the stud, and the locally-bred animal gets
the inferior mates. As long as this practice lasts
the imported horse, by force of circumstances, must
hold the winning hand as -a producer of high-class
stock. No. 2; As a racehorse, the oversea prad has
a habit of starting his career in this country among
the 6st. division, despite his English fornjq this
also looks like’' becoming chronic unless oifr weight
adjusters tumble to the fact that too much allow-
ance for change Of climate and boat-journey has %en
the rule. “Mujik” (B. 30/3/’l6) condemns
tralian trainers and then asks us to consider Cai-
bine and his sire and dam, Musket and Mergcy, gas
examples to stiffen up his contention. He couldn't
have made a more unhappy choice. As a racehorse
Carbine stood alone, his great rival Abereorn being
the only horse of the time worthy of mention in
the same street. As a sire Carbine, with'* - few
chances, got Wallace ar.d La Carabine in Australia,
the latter ranking as one of the greatest mares bred
in the Southern Hemisphere. He was taken to
England to mate with the Duke of Portland’s, fiery
St. Simon mares, and got a Derby winner and first-
grade sire in Spearmint. Pistol in S.A. is another
of Carbine’s get. Musket, the sire of Carbine, was
taken to M.L. to get hackneys. He was a Thick,
bull-necked horse, and it looked a million to nothing
his stock would tend to run to coarseness, But
when all the arguments about salt, lime and change
of climate, and the rest of it, had been brought, to
bear on his case, he unset the poffuD of theories 4>y-
founding our. greatest line of blood.
* * *
“Quill”: Years afterwards Ssmyth had to
make a speech. It was a great success.- I wrote it for
him. The play of his fancy around the apothegm that
every man is architect of his own destiny brought
50 pairs of honest hands together in bangs of
applause. I had seen him do the preliminary archi-
tecting. The common herd were pressed against the
rails watching the start,- when a white hand came in
from behind and got away with a scrap of paper from
a large, corpulent Maori’s waistcoat pocket. When
the field arrived in the straight and something
dashed into the lead the Maori flung up his arms with
wild shouts of “Te Kooti! Te Kooti! He win. By
golly, I back him.” Then a large Maori dashed for
the totalisator, where the rest of the proceedings
were interrupted w'hile the police threw themselves on
a murky giant who was turning himself inside out
looking for a vanished ticket on Te Kooti, frantically
demanding te div., and preventing peaceable citizens
getting up to the pay-window where scraps of the
right paper were worth £B7 10s. apiece. When the
Force had removed the demented Maori Ssmyth
unostentatiously handed up his ticket in peace and
quiet. He started to architect next day, and —well,
as I said, I wrote his speech for him. I suggested
the text of his remarks, too, and he said he believed
in the saying entirely.
“0.K.”: When Donald Dinnie came to
Australia, a bald-headed, braw Heelander of 50, there
was nobody to take him on at wrestling, with any
chance of drawing good gate money, except “Pro-
fessor” Miller, the huge Melbourne athlete. Miller’s
specialty was Graeco-Roman, at which he could either
beat the Scotchman or make a draw. Donald wanted
to put Miller down in catch-as-catch-can or any
other style save Graeco-ltoman, but the younger man
wouldn’t tackle him in a series of athletic test
matches. Big Donald Dinnie was a marvel of
agility compared with huge Bill Miller. He could
run, jump, leap with a pole and so forth. Above all
things he shone at putting the weight or the
hammer. Nobody in Australia could approach the
“champion athlete of the world” at hammer throw-
ing, even when he was in his fifties. A life of
muscle-straining agreed with his porridgeous consti-
tution. He was champion wrestler when he was
16, and he was 79 when he died last week. During
the long interval of championship fame Donald never
earned enough siller to make capital of. His greatest
trouble of late yea J-s must have been the thought that
he was born about 50 years too soon. Had he taken
up the boxing game in his youth, half a century
later than fate had fixed it, he knight have been the
gilded idol of the stoushir.g world.
THE COMMON COMPLAINT.
BHAJIM : “ This is no good to me. Even the
bloomin’ ’orses ’ave got cold feet and
won’t go to the front.”
“ Trot” : There was nothing of the machine-
made athlete about Diunie —no resemblance to the
type of man who acquires biceps with dumbells,
develops a heart, and after doing big things lor a
year or two is a wreck at middle Far too many
men make athletes of themselves \vho: jshoifKln’t do
it. Dinnie was the real article, because hC was' born*,
that way. He knew nothing about deep breathing,
or massage, or the cultivation of abdominal muscles
by dreary exercise perpetrated on the broad* of his
back. At 20 he stood 6ft. lin., had a 49in. chest,
weighed 15st. 81b., and was giving panitch the
greatest advertisement it since Wallace
waved his mighty sword like’ a toothpick. This was
the athlete ready-made—the sort of material to
which the strain of athleticjfm did no harm. At 45
he was standfhg hot, fiery-Youth on its head and
heaving lumps of iron out of bounds. He is said
to have won 11,000 contests, and the number can be
taken as being somewhere near the truth. Just con-
sider that and you get the-'relatively puny measure-
ment of the multitude ..of ifien who buffer under the
delusion that., they .are athletes. Even freaks like
Sandow and Hackensclimidt were weeds compared
with this strenuous’’ .Scot who could run and jump
with the best and Ring masses of metal and meat
about better thant any. Also he could dance the
Reels o’ Tulloch. ,Heavens! what a scrum-forward
he imght ha’ beent'
0%-er ip Maoriland, Donald Dinnie had
somi vi ole fit struggles with Billy Hudson. Then he
settled down in a,pub at Auckland, lost his cash, and
drifted back to Fog land, tpoor in purse. His brother,
at ope time a Scotland* Yard detective, subsequently
became Police Gommissioner in Maoriland, and from
that Into a job as one of the beaks in the
NatiSe Land Cdurt.
* * * *
In America 20 years ago Donald Dinnie’s
son, | then aged 23, was doing some astounding
feats. His masterpiece was holding above his head
at aftns’-length a living pony and carrying it a dis-
tance of from 12 to 20 yards. The extraordinary
measurements of the young fellow’ were as follow:
Height, sft. llin. ; chest, expanded, 56in. ; chest
(norfiial), 48in. ; waist, 30in. ; biceps, ITAin. ; fore-
arm,-;’ 15in. ; thigh, 27Rn.; and calf, 16in. He
scaled 14st. 21b.
* * * *
i Sydney is a wonderful place right enough.
On Saturday its Stadium was packed to see a per-
formance presented by Darcy and the Greek-American
Brown, endowed by some humorist w r ith the title of
‘{Knock-out.” It was just such a performance as
might have been looked for, which is not saying
much. Mr. Brown is a large, hustling person who
ijhrows bash around in great profusion without appar-
ent method and with deliberate emphasis. He is as
hardy as iron, and when weighed on Saturday regis-
tered list. 101 b. Of Darcy, who looked more fine-
drawn than at any time before, there was onlv
list.; 31b. Darcy, wisely enough, contented himself
with boxing Brown, and ran out an easy but not
spectacular winner. Only twice did he cut loose, but
on each occasion promptly pulled himself up. 1 here
was nothing to gain by thumping Browns lronbaik
head, and as Darcy’s hands are of some value to him
he did the right thing. In the first round he stopped
a couple of heavy rights on the jaw, and later on
took one in the same place which shook him to the
heels, but for the rest there was only one man in it.
Darcy made very little use of his right, and for the
greater part of the time fought with the other hand
only. A rough, confused, uninteresting disturbance.
Interest in the Darcy-Brown scrap had been very
dexterously stimulated in advance by the announce-
ment that Brown was going to forfeit some good
cash if Darcy knocked him off his feet, and that if
either party “hung on” excessively he would hand
over £25. The good Lord only knows what it
all meant, but the result was shown in the cashbox.
The general impressions appeared to be (1) that
Darcy had undertaken to stand toe to toe with
Brown and swap wallops, and (2) that the rules of
the game in regard to clinching had been suspended.
Of course such ideas could only be held after first
assuming Darcy to be a lunatic. But that doesn t
matter. The point is that every time the two
men came together wild yells were raised by numerous
persons that Brown was doing something he shouldn’t
do, and he was raucously advised to change his name
from “Knock-out” to “Hang-on!” Well, the writer
has no particular admiration for Brown as an
exponent of the art that makes Mike Gibbons famous.
In fact, he looks upon him as a distinct bore. But
a fair thing is a fair thing, and it is up to some-
one to say that Brown fights quite fairly in his rough,
crude way, and is rather less given to hanging on
than most pugs of his class. In-fighting is a legiti-
mate part of the game, and it happens to be a part
that Brown, when opposed to a man like Darcy, gets
no advantage from. The people who yowled at
Brown on Saturday for hanging on were splitting
their faces without reason.
* * * ♦
Fritz Holland and Fred Gilmore collided
at Brisbane on Saturday, and again Gilmore was
unlucky. He showed Fritz a point or two in boxing
over six rounds, and then Fritz showed him some-
thing about biff. Gilmore is not a biffer, and when
he began to stagger under violent visitations to the
mouth, the referee said things had gone far enough
and placed the hand of benediction on Holland’s
hairless dome. Gilmore had a carbuncle on his
neck when he started and it was very angry at the
finish.
Herb McCoy and Artie Powell met at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night with the inten-
tion of scrapping; but, barring an occasional lunge
to the body and a few unconvincing rights to the
head, Artie was mostly an onlooker with an obstructed
view. McCoy smote the long stranger ’midships and
aloft with wallop in all its phases, and the long
stranger lost interest in the performance after the
eighth encore.
There is no chance of seeing Mike Gib-
bons, of U.S.A., in Australia this year. He lately
tied himself in an ironbound contract with the St.
Paul City Boxing Club for three big fights in that
city, and he is not to engage in any contest outside
without first obtaining the club’s permission. For the
three fights Gibbons is to be paid £6OO0 —£2000
for each match. Dillon, Chip and Darcy are named
in the contract, but in the event of the last-named
not being available Jeff Smith or Ted Lewis will be
substituted. In the event of a decisive defeat for
Gibbons in the first or second bout the club may
cancel the contract.
When money starts coming to an Ameri-
can pug it arrives in lumps. Jesse Willard got
nothing for meeting Johnson, and the darkie was
handed £6OOO and a hiding. To get into the ring
with Moran the other day the prolonged cowboy was
guaranteed £9500, and Moran received £ 45v)0. New
York Police Gazette says these payments are “in-
decent.” They look it, anyhow.
“Cleido”: Jimmy Clabby, Herb McCoy
and other pugs who affect hair are witnesses to the
■ fact that the rules of biff somewhat restrict pug-
nacity. At one time a fighting man getting into the
ring without taking the precaution of having his hair
cropped gave away big chances. In the very early
days it was a great scheme to collar the enemy by
the wool, and the Yid scrapper, Mendoza, fell
to the joke of this when he lost the English cham-
pionship in 1795. On that occasion “Gentleman”
John Jackson seized the Semite by the hair with his
right hand, and repeatedly smashed the left full into
the enemy’s face. The referee and umpires decided
that Jackson was well within the rules. He won in
'nine rounds, lasting 101 minutes, and loud were the
shrieks of lamentation of the peoplesh.
* ■*, *■ Hr *
Another batch of top-notch athletes in
khaki: Sydney cricketer Warren Bardsley, who goes
into the aviation school ; Clafide Felstead, Australian
golf champion in 1909 ; B. St. John (Q-.-), footballer
arid tennis champion; and A. Newland, Sydney
motor-cyclist. A record worth a cheer drops in from
MosmSn (Sydney), where 37 out of 39 members of
the Rugby League club are now on the line-out
against the /Hun.
* * * *
In Sydney grade cricket Bardsley (Glebe)
stood well ahead for the season —aggregate 868
runs; average, 66.76. As the great left-hander
had a similar position in 1914-5, with an almost
similar average , (66.§8), there isn’t much need to
argue. Bardsley’s aggregate has only been beaten
three times in 23 years—J. R. Mackay (1041 in
1905-6), and Victor l’rumper (1021 in 1897*8, and
945 in 1906-7). Not, of course, that this season’s
figures count, because many a good bowler had more
important work; to do than shying a ball at Bards-
ley’s wicket. The most sensational performance of
the season stands to the credit of ex-schoolboy J. M.
Taylor (Petersham), who scored 857 runs at an
average of 45.10, and accumulated three centuries.
In bowling Tommy Foster (26 wickets at 10.29) and
J. D. Scott (57 at 10.84) headed the list—the latter
just missing top honors which he gathered in ’l4-15
(45 at 8.60). Arthur Mailey upset all previous
records by taking 102 wickets at 14.04 —the “bests”
of other" years being J. Randell (78 at 12.02 in
”09-10), jack Massie (69 at 10.37 in T 3-4), and
L. Wall (68 at 10.98 in ’l4-5). But here again the
record is of no consequence at all, so many good
batsmen having more important things to do than
to stay while Arthur flung a cricket ball at them.
* * * *
The barren honor of Sydney Cricket
Premiership went to Balmain. Petersham was lead-
ing up to the last round, but a one-point loss to
Western Suburbs, added to a three-point win by
Balmain over ’Varsity, reversed the positions. How
the times have changed first-grade cricket! The
North Sydney team in the final round were all out
tor 20. Shades of Duff, Hopkins, Hordern and co.,
who, in the days when the game counted, used to land
North Sydney at the top of the treel
According to 253 correspondents, William
Caffvn is not the only surviving member of the
’6l-2 team of English cricketers. Charles Lawrence
is still living in Melbourne. Like Caffvn he was
born in ’2B. Lawrence did not. return to England
with the team ; Caffyn did, but came back with Parr’s
eleven in ’63, and stayed until ’7l, filling in time
as a hairdresser in Sydney and as a coach. Lawrence,
too, coached young Australia, and for a time kept
the Pier Hotel at Manly.
R. J. McNamara and “Bob” Spears (erst-
while of Sydney, but now acclimatised Yanks) had
an easy win in the big six-day race (72 hours, spread
over six days) at Chicago, and made a new world’s
record by pedalling 1572 miles. Owing to trouble
with the bike-race promoters the riders launched this
side-show on their own account, and began the “split”
which had been threatening to arrive for a long
time. All the Australians thereabouts are among the
crowd giving the new movement a lift along.
* * * *
On Feb. 19 at Christchurch (MX.) one
Crawley covered 15 miles on a motor-bike in
1 4min. 24i-.ec., his time for 10 miles of that hurried
trip being 9min. 29sec., which was claimed as a
record for Australasia. On March 29 Percy Coleman
came out at a neighboring place called Marton in an
open championship and placed 10 miles behind him
in 14sec. less than Coleman. Ever since then the
local speed merchants have been experimenting with
dynamite attached to the hind wheel.
* * * *
R. L. A. Rabett, promoted Lieut.-Colonel
of Australian Field Artillery, was, before the war,
a leading member of Sydney Rowing Club and repre-
sented N. S. Wales in the eight-oar championship
rowed at Adelaide in 1912. He argued the point
with Hooknose conspicuously at the Dardanelles, and
George V. punished him with a C.M.G. The in-
gratitude of princes!
* * * *
“Monty” and R. A. Arnold, who are the
first to drop into “life membership” of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union, get the reward for hard work in
pioneering. At the end of the '6o’s the Arnolds
donned the jersey for Wallaroos in Sydney Rugby;
later on with the Southern Rugby Union (which
afterwards merged into N.S.W. Rugby Union), they
were always in the thick of the game. In more
recent years, with stalwart Jim McManamey, the
ever-youthful Lou Abrams, and “Jimmy” McMahon,
their ageing shoulders pushed heartily at the wheel.
* * * *
The alleged sport of coursing seems to
thrive during the war, 100 useless animals having
been nominated for the Puppy Stakes, to be run on
April 13 and 14 by Sydney Metropolitan Coursing
Club. Last week a half-drunken man threw a
chunk of brick at a cat and succeeded in hitting
it. lie was fined £lO.
* * * *
From Jack Sommers: Put a pound or two
on the gentle camel of the desert for the buckjump
stakes. He operates with a long, bounding series of
bucks that would unseat a porous-plaster, and then
makes a lightning jab with a forefoot at the pros-
trate ex-rider to finish the job. A cheerful Light
Horseman straddled across a kneeling “oont” was
greeted with an agile twist of the back that would
rattle Clarence Weber, followed instantly by that fore-
arm jab which if landed would have scored another
for the Red Cross. What with these brutes and the
ten-yard-range mules the kickers among our horses
are not worth mentioning.
* * *
“Moana” : A new brand of sport has
leaped forward with a claim to popularity in the
far north of Maoriland. King-fishing has thereabouts
held pride of place for a long time, but angling for,
swordfish is going to be the rod sensation of the
future. While after kingfish in the Bay of Islands
lately an angler discovered that the swordfish, which
is exceedingly numerous at times in that part, will
take bait, freely if the right thing is served up. When
the animal gets the hook it is about equal to having
two devils on the line at once. Wherefore the whole
population (which consists of several grown-up
people) at once went mad designing special tackle
and experimenting with bait and discovering the best
fishing grounds. Though so far 3001 b. of monster
is the biggest thing the local liar has had the.
courage to report, it can be said that no fisherman
has lived until he has had several hundredweight of
swordfish at the other end of his line. When hooked
the fish makes, first, a long, fast, under-water run.
Then he heads for the surface, and, becoming really
infuriated, begins hurling himself about in the air,
falling back with mighty’ splashes and loud calls tor
assistance. This performance is generally repeated
about a dozen times, but a good fighter when really
annoyed will do it for 40 or 50 times. After that a
rope noose is slipped over him, he is dragged up
alongside the launch, and the exhausted captor sum-
mons a photographer and starts writing to tne
newspapers. #
“Gundy” : The grandstand and bar were
empty and desolate, and the secretary and treasurer,
having counted the takings at the W ood' Choppers
Carnival, were making in the direction of tome,
when sounds of strife burst over the stillness.
talk about chopping. I’ll chop yer {hie!)
under’and, or anyway yer like. I’ll give yer h
way through. Come on ! Come on ! Well, aw-ngnt.
I’ll fight yer for a fiver!” The audience advanced
cautiously to view the combat. One of the disput
was unmistakably Mick, who chops the wood at
pub. And facing him, sitting on its heels in
moonlight, was Bung's kangaroo dog. #
In the East Sydney v. Botany challenge
match at Svdney on Saturday A. V. Mayne won
100yds. (11 l-ssec.), 220vds. (23 3-ssec.), MOyas.
(55 3-ssec.) and broad jump (20ft. 10iin.) | al “
previous week-end he gathered the metropo
broad-jump championship with 21ft. 74in. As M .
is only just out of his schooldays he looks liae
coming star.


What’s Your Chance of Winning a Fight?
S*ABf* SsJrt" 81111 yoor
usin/j?u?b?i™ rSw-- vo, S^ lfUl b ° Xei^°o1 ’ calm *" d collected-
body behind your 1 dows—coiuderi °- P his , Weight , ° f your
most effective, until eventual v h An! leads—hitting him where it’s
then hit him when and like bewil,,ered * You can
to 100k 1 after a yom-self ,ge And absoll . lte confidence in your ability
Then, why hesitate to learn l , c °" flde " ce £ three-fourths of winning,
boxers, as taught by me? )ei ' t moves ot the world’s most "amous
I Teach Boxing’
by Post
uiuWstrwvl* 11 b rac ti ca l, simple way that’s easilv
eve V service hi thoi ' ou ? hl - v .explains and illustrates
e\eiy serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
Here is what one pupil reported:—
~ cjh 6 / 016 sta j tln » on your instructions I thought
lessons wnf b °L n ‘ } am nOW satisfi ed that your
r te^.r ß k rp a Son?i man an -**
“Sdentiflc S Soxi’ug in” You?*Home.’^whieh-ivS’fJS
STafclTh! 01 i “ t *s•“>™
ana address on this advertisement and post to me
for p k Xge What y ° U mean ’ Seild three penny stands
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
484 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
DO YOU PREFER
A MILD CIGAR?
If so, let me send you
a box of my
EMINENCIA
CIGARS
and should they not
suit- your taste, you
can return them, and
I will only charge you
for those smoked.
This applies to all
Cigars purchased from
me.
Eminencia Cigars are
fine-flavored and mild.
They are very good
cigars, at a very low
price.
In boxes of 25, 6/-;
50’s, 11/6; 100’s
22/6.
Postage. N.S.W., on
25. 6d.; 50, 9d.;
100, 1/-
Inter-State : 25. Bd.;
50, 1/2; 100, 1/8.
WRITE FOR A FREE
COPY OF MY LATEST
CATALOG OF CIGARS,
CIGARETTES,
TOBACCOS, AND ALL
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES.
Actual Size,
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RAMEY’S MED/CATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10/-, post free. f 2
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, j
fhe wounded.
RED CROSS CONVEYANCES
OF THE ALLIED FORCES
are run on
SHELL
BENZINE
5*4
( V
THE BRLJtSRjt'I.gERIALQIL C° Ll'
THE
Makes All Australia
Your Pleasure Ground
ALUOUfc
RHODES MOTOR CYCLE CO.™ ST
the
©
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg- Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE MAN WHO THINKS
well of himself—who knows the value of
personal appearance—insists upon having
perfectly-fitting, distinctive and comfortable
footwear.
RIGNEY SHOES
meet all these requirements.
We illustrate a Patent Colt Oxford Shoe —a
high-grade, “made-to-order” style. The
Brogue Cap affords very reliable wear.
Price - 2716
Also in Tan Velour Calf, same price.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
Odd (TOiSat,
Calcutta. (883,
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA
ms sxs m m min w »sm
WttXPv'A.VOXVvV VAIVA.W «W\\XMWA» »\MiV
V\.\\\i c'v'v'V \X x'.VXWW'.W? VOK (\’V ,T¥iV\.V
<\V XmXWWW' X\\XVAX*VW»Jt\'XX viva.-
»x\\.\.'a' wwww.v v?oa «aa* >'»
»* MSS JCmSBUJ xm «MM .Vft«WU\»
»■»** XSAXXU.U CAVAB Ml* ft
*«**?» XXX? \'H A'XXMJ B.WVv'V »m»A¥
VCI XAi AW'V Jiff A\v.\««o»xta»
X'WW*.' ?> .-X v\ •> M.WX JXIUUA
FELTON, chimwadT & CO., Melbourne,
’
The Australian Remedy for/*
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
.throughout Australia.
3*
X
h " t
! . \
s».
151 AI
Absolute Suit-Satisfaction
at Moderate Cost.
If you'd have your next Suit made to order in a
manner that will more than please you—in a
material that will exactly coincide with your
Requirements as to Texture, Pattern and Capacity
for Service —then avail yourself of the “Lincolri-
Stuurt” tailoring service.
The Biggest Range
of the Best Suitings
to be seen under one Tailoring Roof
in the Commonwealth awaits your
selection. In fact, the variety is
nothing short of wonderful, and as
practically every Piece was secured
at Pre-War Rates and we give clients
the Benefit of our Buying, the values
offering are unique.
55/- to 115/-
is the Price-range at which we can
please you, but we have a particu-
larly fine lot of Tweeds at 63/-,
and a Beautiful, Fine, All-Wool
Indigo-dyed Serge at 90/-, that are
specially worthy of attention.
Patterns are post free—write to-day.
Lincoln, Stuart^Co.
PTY. LTD.
“Where Satisfaction is Certain”
244-254 Flinders Street. MELBOURNE.


Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your linger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Trv the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands. House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any’ Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/8 and 3/«
ALBERT & CO., Albert House. Farringdon St.,
Agents— LONDON, Eng
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. 11. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDVRN * SONS, etc.
g>rt
:
mf®
presc
us
Allen's (USA}
I GAM
GREY'
HAIR.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Austral-
asian, Cd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Britisu Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hol-
born. London. W.C.. where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use toe
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
AVON
trade mar*
The TYRES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
The “Blaxland”
A boot w cvmifort. wear aud
smart appearance. S< mi-American
freak shape in Patent Calf Skin, with
dull Kid TVh*~. Derby lace style. A
sxxxi fitter 25 .
P+tt Fm. Writ * fmr Crntmtejme.
For Duiimetirt Fooltcemr.
135 King Street. SYDNEY.
8
!
i
4
J
/
/
/
Gripped by
CATARRH!
Have you realised the great danger you are incurring by
neglect of Catarrh? Sniffing and running of the nose, and
hawking in the throat are annoying in themselves, dis-
gusting toothers, and a positive danger to your family and
every one with whom you come in contact. Every time
you cough or sneeze, countless disease germs are expelled
into the air to be breathed in by those around you. People
look upon you with suspicion, friends (although they may
not show their feelings) are uncomfortable in your presence
and, in advanced stages, you yourself find company
distasteful.
Bat worse may follow for Catarrh is progressive. Little by little it
attacks the ear till deafness ensues; the eves become affected, and as the
filthy, slimy mucous falls down the throat. Catarrh of the Stomach and
its painful consequences set in. The bronchial tubes become diseased, the
lungs affected, and many, very many cases of Consumption start in this
way. Do something for yourself, and do it quick ! Take a step tO“day in
the right direction.
Great Free Offer
to Catarrh Sufferers
“ Kat-ar-ah ” Treatment for Catarrh is based on Scientific principles and
overcomes the trouble on an entirely new and logical basis. I know it is
right by personal experience—the best Catarrh remedy inexistence. aad_l
am ready to prove it to yon. Thousands acknowledge its worth. No
m liter how miny remedies yox have tried do not consider your case
hopeless until you hare tried “ tCat-ar-ah’* Treatment.
In order that vmi mir orort its nht I will snpolv yon w'th a tr a! bottle of ' eCit ar-ah”
Inha ant FREE OF CHARGE It will give im.neiiite relief to the inti me i mem-
oranes, clear the heal, convey health living xauitna; and grnD-destroyrnj medicated
avr to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasa; pissajes of arcxmi.ated mucous- I wiil
aiso send yon a copy of my new and interesting hooc.et—- Catarrh— its C nanc. Sy-no-
t'-ns and Treatment.” Mention this paper wnen writing give fui name and address, and
enr'ose Jd. in ttamns to cover postage. Send to-iir. Tie trial bottle w 1! reach yoa
by return mail.
HERBERT HERDER 22 Diking House, Sydney
FOX
Look for These Brands!
Now. when there is considerable difficulty in
securing reliable D\ e ares, more than usual
care is necessary in the selection of B ! ue and
Black Serges. Coatings and Dress Goods
The Genuine FOX Serges
have the trede marks, here illustrated, stamped
on every yard of the material which is guaranteed
Pure Woo! Fast Dye Thoroughly Shrink
bv Fox Brothers & Co. Ltd.. ,'o. Sorr Tsat. sad
e e cn v of As stjmir.t Fxx So-css and else <Y-
ot the now ruacus khaki and F.I P Puttee
Ii Tam bare any dificulty n> obiiir.-r.i; Fox kxailr. wrte direct the
-Messrs. Stogdale 6c Sms Ply.'Ltd.. Box !gC2. G.P.0.. Svdaey. •*•>o wfi
supply the address of the Dearest Storekeeper stocky it.
n.
If any illustrauvn anp arinr - IBE
Bcixetix takes \x»r fancy, write to ft®
\vb. .v 'U euc-te y i nr—e - rl ~
THE WORM TURN'S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a red-faced, brawny dame,
Stood five feet ten, and weighed, I guess,
A solid fourteen stone. Great blame
She poured upon Smith's head, lie’s less
Than five feet. In his shirt alone
He weighs a trifling seven stone.
He should be at the war, she said.
Smith faced her, pale with shame and fear,
Then turned upon his heel and fled.
Once Smith tried to enlist, I hear;
The officer's reply was terse:
"How dare you come without your nurse?”
To-day the strident dame he saw.
She bristled like the porcupine,
Parading in a manly “straw" ;
Her coat was markedly masculine.
He went to her, and placed, as planned,
A long white feather in her hand!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
The news that stocks declined sharply in
the U.S.A. when the German submarines got
busy again last week must have had refer-
ence to shares in the notepaper and envelope
industry.
The wealthy Colae shire, in the Western
District of Victoria, which contains many
squattages and more farms of great value,
lately struck a beautiful scheme to eradicate
one of its pests. After Ragwort had been
made a subject for discussion in the State
schools of the shire, a prize of five shillings
was offered for the largest collection of roots
brought in by the children within a month.
The offer had hardly been made before a mite
dragged in a preliminary bundle of 650 roots.
Colac will probably have established a record
by the end of the "competition ” as an em-
ployer of unpaid labor on a large scale, for
a dollar looks quite a lot to the average
State scholar —even in rich, rolling Colac.
David Melba Mitchell was once publicly
cursed from a Liberal platform. There had
been trouble at the Mitchell cement works
and the "Independent" Workers stepped in to
"establish amicable relations between em-
ployer and employee" by doing the
job previously done by the men on
strike. But when the wliarfies refused
to handle the product, David saw that
he must either back down or default on
a contract. He promptly backed down, and,
to their wrath and horror, offered the Inde-
pendents a job of woodcutting up at Lily-
dale. Presently, by invitation from the local
branch of the W.X.L.. the Independents had
a political meeting at the Malvern Town
Hall, at which John Packer, the "Independ-
ents’" organiser, was the chief speaker. Some
ribald Laborite at the back of the hall
mischievously asked why Dave Mitchell had
turned down the Independent strike-break-
ers. Packer threw out his chest and came
forward to the edge of the platform. "Be-
cause." he roared —"because Mr. Mitchell is
no man.'" —and waited for the applause.
But not a gloved Liberal hand smote its
fellow, not a brolly banged upon the floor:
not a cheer went up. Only a clammy,
uncomfortable silence followed, in which
Packer fumbled for a new note to strike in
the interests of "freedom."
The Tasmanian committee for settling re-
turned soldiers on the land recently recom-
mended that a batch of them be planted on
a block near Port Esperanee which used to be
held by the Huon Timber Co. on a cutting
lease. There are on it some buildings and a
tramway which are no longer of any use to
the co.. and would be turned over to the
s. Idiers—whether as a free gift has not been
distinctly stated. But the local municipal
council, which ought to know, has risen up
and declared that the land is mostly stony
ridges on which it wouldn't turn out a dog.
The State War Council, however, reckons the
land must be all right because an anonymous
I>erson has offered to give £lOOO for 1000
acres of it if he is allowed to have first pick.
The committee has an idea that the soldiers
might earn a crust while they are waiting
for the apple-trees to grow by cutting wood
and running it d wn the tramline: but the
local people say with truth that the wood-
cutting business is a miserable Lame for any
but skilled men. and the tramway is in the
wrong place to help them.
From "The Oldest Inhabitant":—
There is an old church at Lidcou-.be, net Rook
"■oi. on the outskirts of Sydney, with soniethi: s of
a history. It is of iron, and was Sis* erected in Mac-
quarie-street. Sydney, between the School of Industry
■m: the Hoe-cs of Parlunte; t. Ma le in Ergbr I. it
wa> sent out in I>,V> to the Presbyterians of Eastern
Australia—a distinct body from the Established Pres-
to terian Church of Scotland. When the two fac-
tious united they met in St. Stephen's in Phillip-
stTeet. and the iron pot—a bo known as St. Stephen's
"I- turned int a clot hue factory. Later, it \> -
the home of the lending branch of the Pubic
Dbrary, till the Coverrauer.t resumed the site for
'editions to Parliament Houses: whereupon the ol:
■nldsng was passea on to Rookw-oed. Another iron
church, abo of English nui-', does duty now as the
shelter-shed of a prodnee-nstrehant in Paddington.
A courteous Italian writer recently ex-
plained :hat his countrymen couldn't be
expected to advance by the mile, as they were
raced by about s**o Achi Babas. Sui>hle-
rnennng this, a cable of last week told bow
the Austrians and Italians were getting rid
of each other in battalions by cutting the
apron-strings . ? avalanches with artillerv
fire and sending whole landscapes roaring
d wn int the crowded valleys. Incidentally,
an artistic nation must be very wild indeed
before it rei.s the artili -ryman r _ ahead
and throw millions of tons erf nice, palntahle
scenery at the enemy.
"Te Pana *: Th~ Nine Islanders resident
in Tonga are as keen as their brothers at
home in the matter of this "scrap." In
Nukualofa :here is a Xieu-town with a
gv-ci number of residents, and the entire
eligible male portion, without an exception,
has v. -lunteered for service. These men are
a much better type as far as military pur
are concerned than their brothers from
Niue who managed t push their feet into
bluchers and left with the last hatch erf
Maoris from Auckland. Mi >t f them have
been in the service •: English-speaking
people, and their kowledee of that ian-
ruage is considerable; also, they are used to
white man's kai-kai.


Beale
Pianos
Beales New Piano Showrooms
were opened on Monday, 3rd April. We give below
the exact location —next the Bank of New
♦
Zealand —opposite the Equitable Building—333
(the number will be easily remembered) George
Street. The tram from the Quay stops at the door.
We wish you to remember the exact spot —
then when you want Beale Pianos, Beale Player-
Pianos, Kalophones, Violins or Sheet Music you
will know where to come.
46
Head Office & Factories: 41=47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Showrooms: 333 George Street, Sydney; 232 King Street, Newtown; 14 Oxford
Street, Paddington; and at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle,
Goulburn, Wagga.
Agents for the sale of Beale Australian Pianos in Victoria: Maples, all Melbourne
suburbs ; Williams Bros., Hobart; and Maples, Launceston (Tasmania);
Adelaide: John Evans Ltd., 57 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.
Our New Number
in George Street is
355
I I
» I
h
w\
5.^4
k
m
1
i:
i
□
j
1 7T'/m
mm\\ v
E 1
*
//'.//
/ \
i—«■ i
Vi
ZJ I
aim
[II until
| PPM!
I^vl
i,
c .
:/X
fe=|
=--')
Kj.t'/V ZfAL/MMr
r
IWBS
iLiHi
n
X
ft
m Bag.
1
PIANOS
AUSTRALIAN
£
i
*57 5^7
o»M»ewSiN<s CHEMIST
fVCK>
I'd
MO
e>B
5V5
H i 4=o m
liiiiiu
nrnrM
Si
H.
LJrS'TIJ
NK
R( : \\ ItAkl/W'j
r
*L!
Sill
a
(Guip/mg 3/qpjinbj> ■—
Ad\jpiff4sr^oj > D--S2Q£ —
SUIO
d


u
€
■■
Should be
used TWICE
WEEKLY
For vour system—especially in the
summer months —demands at least
that attention. Liver troubles which
are not attended to are liable to
cause general bad health.
THE SYMPTOMS ARE:
Nasty breath, thick coating
of the tongue, distressing
headaches, nausea, constipa-
tion and general lassitude,
with pains in the back.
Fisher’s Beauty Pills
for the Liver
will put von right in a few days.
All Chemists and Stores,
1/- per bottle.
F.47.8P.
CHEMISTS
537 GEORGE STREET
' SYDNEY
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Far Phono many times as efficient
Ltdl 1 11UIIK an( j powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 391 G City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mothersill s
[seasick
REMEDY
CLARES
JC
€
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
/need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-tner
* MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
>
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the unquali-
fied endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world's greatest men, women
and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Small Boxes.
Motkersill Remedy Co., Ltd.,
82, Pttt Street,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEV returned
rpilE AUTHORS’ ALLIANCE is pre-
pared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for pro-
spectus. 100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and at London and New York.
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines manv of nnr
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles-the
dippy pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, our
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points
the long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers,
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to any port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
KING HEAD BKIDLE, rein and billet in one piece,
1-inch cheeks and reins, with Bradoon Bit, 10/6 post
free. If ordered with Saddle, 9/6; Saddle Cloth, 4/6-
or a yard of good Saddle Check, 4/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers &, Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
A
v
Very “ faddy *’ with his food
Was Mr. well, let’s call him * A ’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him in a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
Merely made him take to flight;
But ‘Jelloids, ’ happy inspiration!
Soon found for him his appetite.
After taking IRON ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
-' •
Mr. M. M. Hvatt, Isleworth, writes : —“ I have derived considerable
“ benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids ’ —my appetite has returned, and I am feeling
“quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take,”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at l/l£ and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
U
Every Shaver
who uses the “Plum” looks upon it as a masterpiece of cutlery manu-
facture. The silver-steel blade of
THE. “PLUM” RAZOR
is the last word in razor tempering. Its action is swift, keen and
decisive.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep the “Plum” in perfect order for two years, free of chaige.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, .SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Handsome Dress Albert,
New Pattern, High-class Finish,
In 15ct. Gold, 50/*
Easter Gifts
for Men at
Stewart Dawson’s.
4P
p
Soldier’s Wristlet Watch, a 15-jewel Lever, splendid
movement, specially made for dependable service.
In 9ct. Gold 84/- and 907-
In Solid Silver, 00/*J Steel, 27/6.
| Special List of Suitable Presents for Soldiers sent Post Free]
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Optimistic: Oh no. The B. didn’t say a
rise was likely. What it said was that a rise was
tipped, but that various things (mentioned) might
upset the tipster’s pot. .. .1174 : Thanks ; same to you.
Collect for it when it’s printed. If you don’t want
the money yourself give it to your Battalion Com-
forts Fund.... Bullpup : V ou’ve mistaken your breed,
haven’t you ? Anyway, you bark just like a dachs-
hund.... St. Clair: Unless he is Ananias 11. the
Imperial authorities directly asked that that should
be done. The whole show has been reconstructed.
....Jim: If the matter’s worth bothering about it’s
the I.G.’s pigeon.... Six and Eight: Thanks; we got
on to it....U.1.: No; it would fracture the libel
law ; besides, his opinions are of little interest and no
value G.P.S. (Calcutta): No hope of print under
the Australian censorship.... M. 8.8.: It’s a tragic
item, all l ight:—
They took him home to bed,
And the doctor came and said:
“This boy has had a nasty fall,
And your lucky if he’ll live at all.”
All that day the mother was sad,
And the boy inside was very bad,
Another day with it’s tottering gleam,
And another day with sorrow to be seen.
In the morning they looked at the bed,
The boy who was in it was dead.
... .Bro: No "use. .. .E.T.R.: For Heaven’s sake, drop
Anzac and write odes to the Petrol Commission....
H.K.: If you want things returned, send stamps with
the copy—not six weeks afterwards... .T.M.: Worst
handwriting seen for five weeks; worst yarns read
for a fortnight. .. .S.M.: “The Soldier Who Wouldn’t”
is a very slim, sad thing. ...G.S.: No interest in a
girl who is “a mirror an angel has made from a
flower.” A mirror girl is a most uncomfortable
proposition. . . .C.G.: Set the Anzac abomination to
“rattling” music if you like. The drums might
drown the futility of the words. . . .G.G.: The tale of
.Cairo doesn’t grip. Too many words.... R.C.: Held
for inquest L. 8.: Don’t like it Donald Gildea :
You say: “Red lips like the op’ning flowers shed
your honeyed perfume round.” Don’t believe it.
Never knew a mob of children in a bush school to
smell anything but human. .. .M.A.H.: More Anzac of
a virulent type... . Scotus: Don’t try to put the
blame on an old Scottish ballad. You committed the
crime yourself... .J.R.E.: It’s all out of tune
.7.A.: Can’t make that finishing touch out. It seems
to read:—
If love could half so fickle me,
How fickle, then, would true love be.
Ought it to be “tickle me” or “pickle me” ?...,
R. : “Morning” is a mere catalogue of events....
F.G.S.: Dull football yarn.... Private B.: Sorry, but
the mule doesn’t fly here.... Marine Engineer:
Another lame howl for the glory of Anzac. They all
either howl or flop ; and most of them have wooden
legs and broken wind. .. .Charlie M. L.: Confused bit
of rhymed prose, in which a horse is supposed to
represent the soul, doesn’t work ... .D. 8.: “Craking”
locusts and “groting” frogs are cheerful business, but
first stanza all out of tune.... Boy: Not much of
a suggestion. ... H.S.C.: Might amuse a very young
schoolboy... .T.A.: What on earth do you mean by
“entrailing broken lives”? Nice job for a pretty
girl! L.C.H.F.: No good E.J.M.: Too slight.
. ...F.F.F.: You don’t get the humor out of it....
S. : Well, hang it all, if he was “a mother’s
son,” the fact isn’t sufficiently unusual to bear
repetition six times in eight short lines Rob:
Pretty crude yarn.... J.A.: “The Garden” won’t do;
though it was a bright idea to make the snakes
answer the bugle-call. .. .F.A.: Not a smile in it.
....Spartan: Interesting to know that eternity
delays. We thought a bit of the show was now on.
. ...M.D.: Try the mixture yourself. It might give
you an original idea. .. .Leda: Can't see any story.
. ...M.8.: Parody on “Mandalay” hasn’t much in it.
. ...R.T.M.: You’re doubtful abort or verse.
We’re doubtful about 16 T. &D. : It rounds like a
Maori football chorus surg - to an accompaniment of
snapping rat-traps. .. .S.S.: “Kaiser s Toasts” con-
tains an idea, but the workmanship is very pcor....
M.A.: Bright form; conventional thought.... H.C.:
You ask: “Will Igoon or stop ?” Don't know what
you will do, but think we know what you should do.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.L.8.: When you have to tie a balloon with an
inscription on it to the lips of each character, you
can be quite sure the idea wouldn’t make a cartoon
for The Bulletin Frank V.: Good idea —passed
on for re-drawing. .. .John B.: Try again when
you’ve learned something about the job C.E.J.:
Poor stuff both ways V.T.: Bald-headed idea
D.J.: Leave art alone H.P.C.: Tortured idea.
H.F.: The lady’s head is about as large as a
lemon, and she has a double elbow J.T. (Melb.) :
Idea scintillates like an old brick on a dark night.
“G.T.” : Father O’Flynn drew his broad-
brimmed hat over his eyes to shut off the
glare of the sun and looked thoughtfully out
to sea. “Yes, th’ convert who hasn’t had
the advantage of bein’ brought up in th’
faith makes some curious mistakes. You
know we have our little societies and
leagues for helpin’ th’ faithful to attend to
their religious, duties. I was remindin’ a
decent fellow one night that he hadn’t been
as regular at church as he might be, and,
says 1, ‘You don’t belong to any of th’ local
societies, do youV’ ‘Oh, yes,’ says he, ‘l’m
a member of th’ Master Butchers’ Associa-
tion.’ ”
The Argus’s articles on “The Man on
the Job” have made honorary supervisors
a feature on every pick-and-shovel job now
under way in the suburbs. Bulbous gentle-
men of means are manifesting the keenness
of their public spirit by sitting in groups,
watching the pick-and-shovel hand, and
commenting bitterly on the leisurely
movements of the chap who pushes
the barrow of pug and the lack of
aplomb shown by the small person
puddling concrete. The men on the
job are apt to resent the criticism of their
self-appointed overseers, and at a big cutting
in a Melbourne suburb the other day 10 men
struck, and, going in a body to the cynical
observers, all much too thick in the middle
for active service, dumped their tools at the
fat men’s feet. Then a hard-faced spokes-
man spat vehemently, and said: “Fer the
love iv Mike, show us how this work orter
be done.”


Cf?G
Logical /
jSolufion
By “Scrutator.’
IN suite of all the talk we hear about patriotism, there is in some things a very great
lack of patriotic feeling among Australians. They are proud of their institutions,
of their liberties, and in recent times of the heroism of their soldiers. But it would
almost seem that they are a little ashamed of their own industries. At any rate, they
have for long manifested a very unpatriotic preference for articles manufactured abroad.
In consequence of this it has been necessary for Australian manufacturers to spend
thousands of pounds trying to convince Australians that there can be produced in this
country articles as good as anything produced in England, America or elsewhere.
Fortunately Australians are beginning to slowly realise the truth, ai.d the capacity of
such firms as Messrs. Beale, Vickers, Wunderlichs, Dunlop and Perdriau to hold their
own with foreign competitors is no longer seriously disputed by intelligent men. But
perhaps no better example of the growing recognition of Australia’s place in the industrial
life of the world can be furnished than the remarkable success of Meggitt Ltd., the now
renowned manufacturers of oils. This firm has won such a reputation for the high
quality of its product that the demand for it has become so great as to overtax the
producing capacity of the mill. Meggitt Ltd., however, determined to meet this growing
demand, have proceeded to vastly extend their plant, and soon, no doubt, they will be able
to execute their daily-increasing orders.
OIL MEAL. —The by-product of this mill, Linseed-oil Meal, is also coming slowly
but surely into public favor. Our farmers do not readily take to a new thing, and
Linseed Meal is new to Australia, although it has long held a high place as food for
cattle in the great farming centres of Europe. Not only is the high quality of this
feed proved by scientific analysis and by a uniform experience in the Old World, but
it is now also being proved by the more enterprising of the farmers of Australia who
have given it a trial. Hundreds of testimonials have been received by Meggitt Ltd.
from farmers who have experimented with the meal, testifying to its high qualities.
• ... ...
.***■*
wr
is
urn-
«k
555
A Corner of the Oil Storage and Packing Department.
To quote a tithe of these testimonials would occupy a large portion of this paper, but
one or two may be cited as a sample of the rest
“Uadgally, Campbelltown. 3/12/’l5.
“Messrs. Meggitt Limited, Parramatta.
“Dear Sirs, —Yours to hand saying you received my order for three tons more
of your Linseed Meal. 1 find it is tiptop food for stock, as my dairyman swears
by it for the cows and the draught stallion gets and relishes a good ration of it.
I also boil it slightly, mixed with pollard, for calves, pigs and poultry.
“Let me know when you are consigning.
“Yours faithfully, (Signed) FRED. MOORE.”
M. J. COUSINS, of Kangaroo Valley, South Coast, says.: “I have given it a trial
with all classes of stock, and have had nothing to equal it, value for value.”
GEORGE AITKEN, Hannanvale: “I am thoroughly satisfied with the meal you
sent me.... 1 am a native of Scotland, where this food is very exclusively used and
highly praised for its splendid nutritious qualities.... I am advising my neighbors
to try it, which they have done with success.”
mm
HIGHLY-SATISFIED FARMERS.
M. GOW, Ulmarra : “It fills the bill. I fed my stud pigs and young
calves on it this season, and have had not the slightest trouble. Usually
they take scours, but they are doing real well on the meal.”
Mrs. TALLANTYRE, Kyogle: “I found your meal the best food I
have ever used.”
SYDNEY WHITE, Hydes Creek: “I am more than pleased with
results.”
“Dike a lot more x>eople I took a great deal of convincing at first as to
its value,” says Air. A. E. WHITELAW, Hilltop. “But I can now say
without hesitation that I am greatly struck with its magnificent returns.”
W. G. SAIITH, of Taree: “I am very pleased with my calves and
pigs. I think it is a splendid feed.”
J. F. YOUNG, Bangalow. “It is the best food to use in conjunction
with skim-milk that I know of.”
D. W. CAMERON, Woodford: “The meal is giving good results.
One cow is doing almost 17 Quarts on less than 41b. of meal, without a
sign of green feed.”
WIEEIAM COX, of Liverpool, says: “I am feeding 50 cows on a
mixture of Linseed Meal and chaff. They are holding their condition,
look clean and healthy, and are giving a fair amount of cream. I give
about two pounds of Meal mixed with about three times its bulk of
chaff to each cow per day. I mix the feed dry and then wet it thoroughly
but not to make it squashy... .1 have tried bran, boiled grain and
Linseed, and find Linseed gives far the best value. One very great
feature in the use of your Meal is I have no trouble with impaction, or
among calving cows when feeding entirely on dry food. I also use the
Meal for my horses, and they prefer it to corn. I give it to them dry in
their chaff'.”
Indeed it would exhaust the patience of readers to peruse the hundreds of testimonials which Meggitt’s Meal has called forth.
Farmers visiting the Royal Agricultural Show, Sydney, are advised to visit Meggitt’s exhibit, where all information in reference to the
meal will be cheerfully given. Also, they are invited to inspect the mill at Parramatta.
m
m
mS-m
m
m
Showing the Capacity of the Mill—One Day’s Delivery of Oil. When the New Machinery is installed the capacity of the Works will be doubled.


Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1 /-
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3J per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Compauies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 TbreadneedleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1R93 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Blanches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [limited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibrs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Bl anches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia. New Zea-
, land, Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest tor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The (Jdanial Hjutual Qif@
assurance society LIMITED
POX
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a;’.u
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office fob New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E. N GL AN D
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw.. 13,000
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .. 12,130
OSTERLEY.. „ „ 12,129
OTRANTO .. „ „ .. 12,124
OTWAY .. „ „ .. 12,077
ORSOVA .. 12,036
ORONTES .. „ „ 9,023
OMRAH .. „ „ .. 8,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries..
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
TUROL GH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
Steamers sail from Wellington :
April 27, May 25,
* MO ANA. ‘ MAITAI.
steamer leaves Sydney:—
April 20, May 18.
STEAMERS
“THE PEARL
STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting): —
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 15.
GABO (Cargo only).
Leaves Melbourne April 19
Leaves Sydney April 22.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 26.
Leaves Sydney April 29.
MELBOURNE
(Transhippinj; for
S. A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 22.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA—HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
APRIL 19, MAY 10, MAY 31, JUNE 21.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PlilLP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
v
.■XT*
Directors
£3,500.000
£2,600,0 JO
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund \V. I-'osbery, C.jI.U., ji.L.C.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land. Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edged iff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St.-; Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St , E.C.
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager '
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist the
prospective settler and to the honest worker. ’
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.TV.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Commonwealth
JM“Bustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
■for all
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
J VMKS KKL:.. Deputy Governor. Jhiie, 1915- DENISON MILLER, Governor
The Inion Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. .. .. ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executbr, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Y’oung Street.
Directors.
The lion. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BKADDOX, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq.
JAMES KIDD, Esq.
K. M. PITT. Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS?" bv Harry J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. 'Bulletin News-
paper Co„ 214 George Street, Sydney.
■pHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
Ihe Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — -i.
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers’
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £ g B>. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE : 0 and f rom
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT FIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, May 6
and June 3.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
ALMWU, April 15.
RLPARA, April 22
PARINGA, April 29
MORI ALT A, May S.
ffi&rjrsgjs, ffissrsiffi
G. S. IUILL & CO., LTI).,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
\IA NEW ZEALAND, Fiji AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CA N A DIA N-AUSTR A L A SI AN II M
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST FASTFST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADINO
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
JtTwin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe , suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain eve.y
comfort arid convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduce I
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets applv
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z.. LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Lme.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zsalandia,” ".Westralia,"
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,” " Victoria."
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And AB Pores.
Federal & Shirs Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT k CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN k CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne amt
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH k CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Me bourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KAN OWN A” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEV UKA” ... 6500 ton*
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with 'Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiml scenery should travel .
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers P osse '
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. A tie
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets a
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, ab
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Irene,
particulars on application. For dates of sailing s
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the centuries*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In u*e since 1596.
iyla
for Poole ' CURES Write to Booh
RAI.HN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
R23N, 210, Lambeth Road, London, hoU
ln-Lt on “ Sinsieton s' —refuse all substitutes.


S?
I
Ir. .
The “Universal”
Metal Cutter.
A
This lathe bed
easting:, weigh-
ing: 22001 b., was
defective and
useless on ac-
count of blow
holes on the sur-
face to be
finished. These
defects were
welded up and
tiie casting: saved
from scrap pile.
Many castings come from the mould
with small defects that can be welded
up at a small cost. Thus the delay
and expense of recasting: can be
avoided.
From
No Need to Stock New Parts.
With the Oxy-Acetylene Process at hand you do away with 90 per
cent, of your expenses. The pictures give a slight idea of the
versatility of the process which will weld together anything in the way of machinery.
The “Universal” Blowpipe.
•V,i-
-» ;
- f - •.;■■*
Oxy-Aoetylene Welding, showing the Complete Outfit as used in the
Workshop. The Portable Plant, which can be used by the roadside or
in the field, is a smaller outfit.
Armor-plate Cutting by the Oxy-Acetylene Process.
Endurance High-pressure Automatic
Regulator.
Twin cylinder with jacket burst and ear
broken out of flange. Parts welded in
place. Cylinders are as good as new.
Cracks of any length in cylinders can be
welded up, and spark plug walls, if
pulled loose, can be filled up, drilled and
tapped.
Cast-iron gear welded through hub and
rim. This Oxy-Acetylene repair saved
a delay of two to three weeks.
This aluminium crank and gear case,
combined worth approximately £5O, had
end bearing and part of end broken out.
Aluminium crank and gear case, with
end bearing we! led in place at a small
cost.
This punch press
casting-, weighing
16001 b., had flange
of base broken, as
shown.
Punch press cast-
ing with flange
weldetl in place.
The repair was
made by Ox y-
Acetylene welding
in less than one
day.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
Do not fail to call at No. 89 Stand,
C Road, at the Show, where demon=
strations of welding and cutting
of metals will be given.
Write for Full Particulars to
The COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. Ltd.
ts-
-MELBOURNE: Eyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, lleakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
The Permanent Trustee Building',
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY


THE KITCHENER
(As Pictured)
6'SI l«
POST
FREE.
The strongest in Boots and physi-
cally fit to undertake the work for
which it is manufactured.
It is an easy-walking, long-wearing,
water-tight Tan Mineral Cossack.
Made from specially selected leather
and built on Military lines. Just the
boot for the man who must be heavily
and strongly shod and wants strength
and comfort combined.
SPECIAL PRICE, 18/9.
Ready—Finney New Fashion Book
W rite for it To-day.
FINNEY’S
The Big Block, Brisbane
savoury dish
is complete
without salt: yet
how little salt is
needed. There-
fore why not use
only the best—
CEREBOS
SALT
Cx^vima
CURES
ECZEMA
Writing frv'iu Cobargo. in January. 191t>.
Air. J. MoCleary says:—“l did not credit
there was such a wonderful liquid on the
face of the planet that could do what
fc.nerma has done for me. I had tried
tbar 1 saw advertised, without
Strif ll? 7 te r improT T ment but with one
I™* of Enerma I was almost cured—
this after two years* suffering. I was afraid
to mu with people and got as far into the
b . a . s , 1 «*old. Now I can once more
SfrSr** An ck '-“”
S. FIELDER, Raniwick, Syiney. 5 2 6
Ensasrement.
r pHL Engagement is announced id Miss
rhl \Jr\t . B^ ke ; daughter of
V Br ? a | e ' of Yarra Junction.
«* Surrey Hills, to laeut.
Frank B. :>tark. AJJ son of Mr. and Mrs
C. \V. Mart., Surrey Hills.
- -
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
Mirfes the KOLOK trade nl * ,® !? ta °tioner?
. KOLOK TYPEWRITER
PEN AND PENCIL CARBOKS aw*
WRITER RIBBONS *ne used. Ever y
KCONOMT BINDER las no h is
tissicossxmr should »t once s**
oSoo uses Keloi mikes.
ALL STATIONERS.
Austrjlisiin Agent :-C. F. BICKFORD-
-5 Hamilton Street. SydnO- _
IN BANANA LAN D
During the last few months three noted
State guests of long-standing have been
liberated. The first was a famous horse-
and-cattle thief who escaped the hempen
decoration that the Court awarded his bro-
ther to adorn his last moments on earth
The other two were a man and his wife.
Their crime was the murder of the former's
11-year-old daughter by his first wife, who
had left the child a legacy which they
coveted. They got 15 years' instead.
"Boro-Belle’’: The sugar industry lends
itself to the heated discussion of “records.”
such as the heaviest tonnage to the acre, the
longest stick of cane, the champion cutter
and the largest cane-beetles: but one has
been overlooked. That is the biggest "shout.”
Every year when the central mill share-
holders assemble for their annual meeting,
following a custom established one prosper-
ous year, the chairman shouts for every cocky
who attends. So far. the Marian mill, of
Mack ay, holds the belt, as no less than 110
canegrowers have breasted the bar.
Only rwo officers in the Banana-
land Civil .Service are still contribut-
ing to the ancient Superannuation Fund
created by the defunct Civil Service Act of
1863. They are C. S. Miles, manager of
the Govt. Savings Bank, and F. X. Heeney,
member of the Land Court. Miles has been
51 years in the service: Heeney will, in June
next, complete his jubilee. Both are in the
neighborhood of 70. and for some time have
been eligible for retirement on substantial
pensions. W. R. O. HilL late P.M. at
Mackay. owes his respectable annuity to
a fortunate omission. He neglected to
notify the Investment Board that he wished
to withdraw his payments to the insolvent
fund of 1863 until the time limit had-expired.
So he was compulsorily continued as a con-
tributor until he retired.
"A. 5": Whilst the B.M.A. and the Ma
State Ministry are squabbling, that black
spider, the quack, is having the time of his
life. Nobody minds him. blit he keeps his
eye on the times, and is now reaching for
the kids —anything from adenoids to worms
shifted without an operation. Next to the
U.S.A.. Australia is the land where the quack
pays the most income tax. Here's one way
he makes his fortune. A youth of 19. driving
a milk cart, overstrained himself and de-
veloped a rupture. He was an out patient
of the Brisbane General Hospital without
benefit for three weeks. Becoming im-
patient he went to an advertising quack,
who guaranteed a perfect cure for £25.
The youth parted with £ls—all he
had —but at the end of a month was.
if anything, worse. For another £lO
the spider guaranteed to fix tip the trouble
for certain in a fortnight. At the end of the
fortnight the youth tried to settle the matter
himself by cutting his throat. Then the law
grabbed hint and he was carted off to hos-
pital. cured of his gashed throat and
rupture, and duly hauled before the Court
for attempted felo de sc. There he got a lec-
turing from the Bench to add to his £25
worth of experience. The quack got his £25
m cash and no back-talk.
THE LAST TRAIN.
DBUNK (trying to find time-table): ‘There'sh (hie!) so many bally advertisemenis
about I (hie!) can't tell whisch ish whishky I w ant to catch.”
“P.M.”: In the lists of Australians who
have sat in the House of Commons (B.
23/3/T6 and B. 30/3/'l6) include Dr.
Kevin Izod O'Doherty, one-time member for
N. Brisbane, and later an M.L.C. He sat in
the Commons as member for Meath (Ire-
land » in the ’Bo’s, but resigned and returned
to Australia. He practised his profession in
Sydney for some time, but eventually came
north again, and died there full of years and
honors.
Tom Wilson, ex-bookmaker (like Jim
Sharpe. M.H.R.) and one of Labor’s elect
on the Brisbane Water and Sewerage Board,
is the chosen of Fortitude Valley. Wilson’s
opponent for Dave Bowman’s stronghold
was a brother alderman from the City Coun-
cil —George Down, a Tory of the older type.
Milson won by a battalion of votes in a
small polL He is a bulky individual and a
poor debater, but has much of the milk of
human kindness about him. In the Valley
he will have abundant opportunity of spend-
ing more than his Parliamentary screw. He
has been known as a “good mark’’ for a long
while.
"Ossian" : The State monopoly of accident
insurance, provided by the new W orkers
Compensation Act. has become possible
through the failure of the Nominee Chamber
to do its worst with some of the vital clauses
in the Bill. The Act becomes operative on
July 1. Of course there is much wrath
amongst the insurance cos. which, for 10
years, have been enjoying the fruits of high
premiums for small benefits. The Insur-
ance Commissioner has just issued regula-
tions which prescribe, amongst other things,
the ratings for different callings. He points
out that the compensation payable under the
Act is nearly 75 per c-ent. more than the
compensation payable under the old Act, yet
the Government has been able to start the
scheme at the same rates as those charged by
the companies hitherto. Even so the Com-
missioner is sanguine that he will be able
later to reduce the premiums: anyhow, the
returns sent in by the companies suggest that
possibility. Fihelly l Minister for Justice)
made the public hair rise the 'other day
when he said that the returns sent in by
23 cos. showed that an average of only 33.17
per cent, of their takings had been paid away
in benefits. And it can’t seriously require
66.83 per cent, of the premiums to pay
w« irking exes.
The compulsory voting law is so lightly
regarded in Bananaland that no less rh»n
SOO electors refused to go to the poll at the
Fortitude Valley by-election the other day.
The "khaki weed** is the latest novelty to
spring to light in Bananaland. The Fassi-
fern district is producing the pest by tons,
and its prolific powers make it a promising
rival to prickly pear.
Some who knew and loved him" have
produced an illustrated memoir of parson
Freddy Hulton Sams, one-time lightweight
amateur champion of X.Q.. who died fighting
as a captain of Kitchener's new armv in
Flanders last year. Bishop Halford, of
Rockhampton. writes the opening chapter on
8-ams as priest, and each of the eight other
chapters is a sketch of some side of his life
during his five years in the Queensland back
country. Sams was not generally known as
u Pb?r. but the book contains a few verses
written by the soldier-parson-pugilist just
before he left to reason with Bill the Blood-
The proceeds of the book, which is
published at half a crown by T. F. Barker
ot Longreach (Q.), will go towards building
an Anglican church at Jundah as the Hulton
bams memorial.
Earth-Bound.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When everything that was for me on earth
Shadow of shadows shall at last become.
The spirit passing find a greater birth.
The Great Voice speaking leave the body
dumb:
When summer leaves shall twinkle never
more.
Nor essence of old flowers soak the wind
Distilled in sunshine by some cottage door.
In days that memory can no longer find;
When the brown rivers o’er their shallows
sweep.
And plovers nest in grass, and swift hawks
soar
By leafy lanes where bygone echoes sleep
And hedges which cau promise Spring no
more;
Treading the full white cloud, or blown o’er
seas.
Rising exultant and triumphantly.
One with the flight of birds, the unbound
breeze.
A throbbing pulse of earth will follow me;
One cord tug at my heart where should be
rest.
One song of earth that yet through death
could live,
One finger on a freed soul still be prest—
Regret for something only earth could give!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, April 8, 19io
Mr liear Thargomindah,—
Ilis Kx. and Capt. Cosens were at th
military sports this afternoon. The takin
go to Pte. Nolands, who was blinded S
otherwise injured through the bursting f
a hand grenade at a training JLi
Colonel Flewell Smith and Archbishop rJ'
aldsoii adorned front pews, and the khov
boys rallied splendidly. nakl
Mrs. Scott Fletcher left for the South
last Wednesday with her rev. husband, wh,
is to enlist in the Methodist College at Svd
ney Uni. She was farewelled by the various
societies she has helped over the style
Amongst the parting gifts was a chimin?
clock, which the Nurses’ Home will retain
in memory of her.
J. Bennett, son of J. S. Bennett, chief
clerk of the llept., has a commission
in the Flying Corps in England. David
Stitt, grandson of David Ewart, formerly of
the Education Dept., trives orders in the same
corps. Altogether, Queensland has contri-
buted about a dozen swallows to this flight
E. M. Waraker. deputy surveyor-general
of Queensland, died suddenly last Monday.
He was a son of the late Rev. J. T. Waraker
and was born in ISSB. His elder son. Nor-
roan. is at the Front, and the younger son
Eric, is in camp.
Marjorie Carr-Boyd. only daughter of the
Gerald Carr-Boyds. has accepted the half
hoop of threatened matrimony from Lieut.
Salmon, of the A.I.F.
Mrs. Frank WiLson and Miss Margo
McSwaine organised a skating carnival in
aid of the “Lost Legion Fund” last week.
The Lost I.egion. my dear, is the name by
which a certain Australian unit, busy •‘some-
where.*’ is known locally. About £2O was
raked in and a large case of comforts soon
will be sent in pursuit of them.
The new Dutton Park baths are to be
opened on May 6. and an aquatic carnival
in aid of wounded soldiers will be the first
splash of the season.
Mrs. Arthur Hunter, who has been re-
tained by the Brisbane Operatic Players as
producer for “La Fille du Tambour Major,”
arrived from Sydney this week. The opera
is to run for a week in May, in aid of vari-
ous patriotic funds.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Another victim. Mrs. M. McGrath died
at Cairns the other day aged 105. Anyhow,
that’s what she was put down at, and
whether the tally was v» >rrect or not she
gave the devastating climate a horrible set-
back.
The Far North is still a land of billies
and blueys. Out of 140.000 enlistment
appeals no fewer than 36.043 were returned
as unclaimed from various pK>st offices. Yet
the back-country towns that sent back these
unclaimed forms are far more prolific of
volunteers than the bigger towns with the
dry-grocer's souls.
“Itan”: When distracted eoekies turned
stock on to pear land during the drought
this peculiarity was observed —that the ani-
mals did better on porcupine without water
than with it. Some mobs were turned on to
Government reserves as poor as crows, as a
last hope, and by the time the rain came
they were fats. Horses, however, will not
look at the vegetable, no matter how hungry,
and the general experience is that sheep
soon die on it.
Nine months' State economy: Excess of
revenue orer expenditure for first nine
months of the financial year 1914-15,
£167.080: excess of expenditure over revenue
for the corresponding nine months of 1910-16
16 £-440.811. The position has thus deterio-
rated by £607,891. Loan and trust funds
showed nearly 3f millions of. outgoings—
nearly three-quarters of a million ahead of
last year’s standings in the same period.
For a population of 670.000 this represents
a fairly swift descent to the pit
The apostate Age won’t get much change
out of the latest contribution to the scien-
tific discussion of nigger labor — "Rural .sani-
tation in the Tropics.’’ Dr. Malcolm Wat-
son is the writer, and his investigations haie
carried him to the Malay Peninsula,
Sumatra. Panama. British Guiana. Wes
Indies and elsewhere. His chief conclusion,
borne out. of course, by the well-known
statistics of Queensland, is that if a place i
unhealthy for the white man by reason o
malaria or other tropical disease, it is jus
as unhealthy for the colored man; in fac.,
the death-rate of the colored man is invari
ably higher because of his inferior stamma.
What the snufflebuster who mostly asks tor
colored labor to develop some new count
means is that it doesn’t matter if be
kill a few cheap niggers. But he niign
least leave off being a hypocrite Y“ O f L; P
tends that he wants to kill them for tneir
own good. ■


;
Jl
0
Va
+. 'O5
*
V'
y
w*
tested andPRPVtiN in n
everycou world
For the prospective car-owner here in
Australia to know that a certain motor-car
has proven exceptionally satisfactory in, say,
the British Isles is no particular assurance
that itwill give him thorough-going, ciay-in-
and-day-out SATISFACTION underthe
conditions here.
But it’s different when he knows that the
car he is considering has given thorough-going, day-in-and-day-out
SATISFACTION under the hardest conditions of service in every
civilised country of the globe.
The car with this international, all-round make-good reputation is
the STUDEBAKER.
You have only to see the car—to ride in it, or drive it—to know WHY.
And as you drive you will realise how the perfect balance and the
precise alignment of the Studebaker chassis eliminates all tendency to
swerve, thus making steering so easy that two fingers will keep the
car on its course.
In looks the Studebaker is one of the handsomest cars ever seen here. The fine, sweeping lines, the handsome finish the luxurious
comfort of the deeply upholstered seats with their genuine hand-buffed leather are visual evidence of a car ot UUALI Y.
STATE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALASIA—
NEW SOUTH WALES (except Sydney)— CLUTTERBUCK BROS. LTD., Sydney.
VICTORIA —TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRA LI A — Messrs. T. d. RICHARDS & SONS, Adelaide.
TASMANIA- W. H. GAHAGAN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND—ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch.
General
Distributors
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
17 7 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY.


The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
oid, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures w thout hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely *
Vegetable. 1
CARTERS'
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
L
Small Pill—Small Doss —Smill Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
“Biff” Gladdens
Sore, Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“My feet
just ache
for ‘Biff’ ”
m
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the ls.6d.size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
“KV' v '
rv:
c. «
i-rv
One Shot
from the Ross .280
using the Special Sporting Am-
munition with its copper tube
expanding bullet fells the largest
game if a fair hit is registered.
You increase your chances of
success by carrying this rifle which
not only hits but anchors the
game.
Expert guides and hunters all
over the world recommend it.
Sold by best dealers.
Illustrated Catalogue free on
1 request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec,
1215 Canids.
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne. Australia.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY. Woy
Woy, X.S.W.. Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box. or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggi-ts, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION’ CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
/®E
m
=*■-
Soldiers’ Presents-
Latest Novelty, Case with Metal
Mirror, Silver Pencil, fountain
Pen, Pocket Knife .. 18 6
Other Combinations.
12 6, 7,6,6 6
\ The New Bullet-proof Pocket
Book, steel through both
) covers ••• 12 6
Send for latest List of 80 Gifts
to select from.
ROTHWELL'S LTD.,
Edward Street,
Brisbane
Sr
3
A £l4 Machine
ith 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ Written
guarantee
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade
Adelaide; Baird's Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart ’
A Novel
Dry
Shampoo
There is no need to
wet youi hair if you
use Icilma Shampoo
Powder. Just sprinkle
a little over the head
and hair—leave for a
few minutes then
brush well out. Each
little grain of this novel
dry shampoo gather's
the dirt and grease, so
that when brushed out
,
a
£
>
'tj
it leaves the hair beautifully fresh and clean.
Icilma Hair Powders are perfectly pure and
harmless. No trouble —no wetting. Try one to-day.
The only dry shampoo that readily brushes out.
£
a:
m>
Hair Powder
(For DRY Shampoo).
Price 3d. packet.
Of Chemists, Druggists, etc. Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO..
Sole Australian Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
A h. 6.
if you must rear
baby by hand
Then there’*
his Cottle
Meilin’s Feed-
ing Bottle is
the perfect and
simple Feeder.
adopt a food which approaches most closely to
Mother’s Milk, and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and proved equivalent
to Mother’s Milk; its success is evidenced by
world wide recommendation. Simple to prepare;
no tedious copking —it is alike a boon to the
nursing mother and satisfying to the child.
Mellin’s
Food
VOW for =arrp'e of Mettin's Food and nsefnl Handbook
for Mothers “ The Care of Infants in Austra ia” - post free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIE l ARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
JOKES, TRICKS, PUZZLES, NOVELTIES.
Write ior our New
> ovelty Catalog.
SENT FREE.
DEVIL’S PDZZLE MATCH BOX.
!
cr'
m
OO^CM
The Match Bex which is different from all other pu
boxes. You'll never open it until you read the j ,'l
Made of Nickel-plate, beautifully finished. Without
the most ingenious Puzzle Match Box that has e'er
made. Price. Post Free, with Instructions, */"
SOMETHING SPECIAL. ass
Winter is coming, and you'll want something to help “
the dreary nights away. We are offering a special ,
Jokes and Puzzles, suitable for young and old, “ r!ie
cause no end of fun and amusement. The box conta
following
1 Box of Match Puzzles. 1
it IMfferent Wire Puzzles. 1
1 Fortune-telling Fish.
1 Five Wood Squares 1
Puzzle.
Changing Card Trick,
Joker's Lighted Cigar
(‘ttP
Joker's Box of Matches,
1 Dark Question jokc-
The Box of Jokes Sent Post Free for
6.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Ltd.,
New York Novelty Co.,
70S-710 Ueorje sit., Haymarket,->
Prime Minister Hughes to members of
London Stock Exchange: “When I see your
smiling, resolute faces. I realise the temper
of the British people.”
In Northern Maoriland there is a Timber
Workers’ Union with 1400 members, and
over 500 of them have swapped axes for
rifles. From one camp of 10 no less than 1<
crowded into khaki.
The penetrative powers of a cordite-driven
bullet were illustrated at Auckland (M.L.)
lately. A Territorial was tinkering with
a loaded rifle in his bedroom when there
was an ear-splitting explosion. The bullet
crashed through the window, pierced the out-
side wall of the adjoining house 15ft. away,
dashed through the bathroom door, flew up
the hall, crashed through another wall, leapt
across a bedroom, and, diving through the
outer wall, disappeared.
“Rego" : The pantry window of our new
house wasn't as well wired as 1 erdun. and
twice the fish delivered by our Chow fish-
monger had to go straight to the
dustbox. First time a cat mauled the
sea-food; second time it was a blow-
fly that did the damage. On Saturday
afternoon, when the ironmongers was shut,
father was commanded to wire the window,
and. as he had no gauze, he decided to
baulk the cat at least and temporarily cov-
ered the opening with a strip of netting.
After father had gone to work on Monday
John called round, saw the job that dadda
did, and explained excitedly: “Ah. missus,
that no keepem blowfly out! Him get in
just the same. Wantem small wire!”
There are all kinds of “cheap and reliable”
colored labor. For instance:—
Some of these classes extend their field of opera-
tions over the whole country. Others take employ-
ment as railway hands, laborers and miners. None
are to be trusted, for they are thieves by profession,
and in the case of one class the commission of crime
is regarded as an obligation of manhood amounting
to a religious duty. One of them reaching manhood
without having taken part in a successful theft or
burglary would be looked upon with disfavor by the
females' of the caste and with contempt by the males.
The most formidable of these pose as industrious and
honest laborers, but are potential criminals. They
will commit theft in any form.
The authority is the Deputy Inspector-
General of Police in Bengal. He wasn t
referring just then to the Melbourne Age s
demand for the opening of the Northern
Territory by something dark and “reliable” ;
but if that is wanted it looks as if there is a
pretty wide choice.
Vic. Education Department is issuing a
special number of the School Paper for
Anzac Day. It is to include Dennis’s
“Little Homes,” from The Bulletin— a
piece that “Education” Tate wants to im-
press on the minds of School Paper chasers.
He reckons it “hits people where they live,”
to quote Dennis’s words. A war poem that
wishes to lift ’em into the clouds is trying to
hit them where they don't live.
Go, write a play, young man ! Sullivan's
operas provided Gilbert with an income of
£12.000 a year. “The Second Mrs. Tan-
querav” alone brought Pinero something like
£60,000. In addition, “Sweet Lavender”
pushed £40.000 into his pockets, and
although Edward Terry paid this sum in
fees to the author, he cleared £60.000 out
of the play in London, and perhaps half as
much again from provincial tours. ‘‘The
Little Minister” earned J. M. Barrie £4OO
a week for a number of years, and long be-
fore the last performance at the Haymarket
the net profits totalled £lOO.OOO.
“Cleveland” : I rode 15 miles to Mangonui
(M.L.) to see the first movie show that lit
up on that stretch of coast. The roll-up
was inspiring, not to say terrifying. Henare
arrived in squads, bringing his library of
dogs and other household pets with him. He
also chartered the three front rows of seats,
in order that no portion of the show should
get past him. The hall was hot and stuffy,
the pictures flickered abominably, and
Henare smelled like the leeside of a month-
old defunct whale. He also howled “Hi-yah !
Kapai. kapai!” at frequent intervals. One
of the scenes was a charge of cavalry end
on, and when the horses came foaming and
racing into the forefront of the picture to-
wards him, and an empty acetylene gene-
rator came down with a crash. Henare
whooped madly and started to climb out over
the faces of the audience. I successfully
pushed two of him into the orchestra before
part of the pursuing cloud of dogs swept
me off my feet. Then the whole world wiped
its feet on my hair and I felt very sorry I
had pushed the generator over.
“Y.Z.”: I went to a Victorian Govern-
ment (State) department to have a defective
receipt rectified the other day, and waited
patiently at a counter while seven gentlemen
of varying grades blandly ignored my exist-
ence. Once, after I had knocked rather
loudly on the counter for the third time, one
gentleman did lift his heavy-lidded eyes and
look at me with a certain severity, implying
that, if this annoyance continued, perhaps
after all he would send for the jani-
tor and have me removed on a shovel. Then
an eighth gentleman came joyously in from
another room, with a paper in his hand. He
read an article of abont a third of a column,
while his fellow-workers gathered round and
thoroughly enjoyed it. They laughed with a
vociferation that seemed to threaten the
physical well-being of superior beings so far
removed from the strenuous life. The civil
service, as represented by those eight gentle-
men, thought the article magnificent, so
witty, so pungent, and so called for. by
heaven! Know what they were reading ?
One of the Argus’s heavily-humorous attacks
on the dilatory conduct of pick-and-shovel
hands in Government employ!.
Captain Ivor Margetts. of the 12th Bat-
talion. landed on Gallipoli on April 25, and
stayed there right through the eight months’
fighting, never leaving the peninsula even
for an hour till the evacuation. It is claimed
that this is a record equalled by no other
officer. Australian or British. Though there
is 6ft. 4in. of him for a mark, he was never
touched, except once by a bit of spent shell
which did not disable him.
This Mr. Hughes is sly, indeed ;
And yet his methods are not hid —-
'Tis plain he hopes he may succeed
In vanquishing the Bull with kid.


I 1
r .jp,
:
. ■ '
Vi ll
■ •
m
\
■
■
y
/
•p
-Cl
■ *
Tooth’s
*
*
A perfect table
which contains
of the m<alt and
Wholesome—Sparkling ~ Satisfying
. ‘
Crystal ”
z
m


Legal Xotice*
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
RE PETER ARCHIBALD MARGACH
DECEASED.
PURSUANT to the provisions of "The
Trustees and Executors Act of 1567"
notice is hereby given that all creditors and
other persons having any claims or demands
upon or against the estate of Peter Archi-
bach Margach. late of Innisfail, in the State
of Queensland, sugarcane farmer, deceased,
who died on the tenth day of February. 1916.
at Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
are hereby required to send in in writing
particulars of their debts or claims to the
undersigned, solicitor for David Hunter of
Innisfail. in the said State, sugarcane farmer,
and Mary Kate Margach, of Innisfail. afore-
said the lawful widow of the said deceased,
the executor and executrix respectively
named in the will of the said deceased on or
before Saturdav the eighth dav of April.
1916.
And notice is further given that after the
expiration of the lastmentioned day the said
Executor and Executrix will proceed to dis
tribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the persons entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which the said
Executor and Executrix shall then have had
notice, and that the said Executor and Execu-
trix will not be liable for the assets or any
part thereof so distributed to any person of
whose debt or claim he shall not have had
notice at the time of such distribution.
Dated this twenty-eighth dav of Februarv,
1910.
E. IVOR lIAYARD,
Solicitor for the said David Hunter and the
said Mary Kate Margach, Innisfail.
Town Agents: Mac-Donnell Hannam &
Hamlyn Harris, Solicitors, Townsville.
BEST - ALWAYS.
fit ft
m
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-I-S.
r 7
?
VV
v
Little Lectures
by Nurse 'Wincarnis.'
(Lecture No i.)
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles—
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease.
In Anaemia —or bloodless-
ness —the red corpuscles are
more or less deficient. Thus
the blood cannot provide
sufficient nourishment for
the body. Therefore the
face becomes white and
“pasty’ - —the eyes become
dull and “ heavy ” —and a
feeling of intense weariness
pervades the whole system.
To overcome Anaemia, the
blood supply needs re-
chargingwith red corpuscles.
And it is here that
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood-maker, ‘ Wincarnis ’
creates a wealth of new, rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes
—and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
' Wincarnis ' is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO.. Ltd., Wincarnis
Works. Norwich. You can buy
' Wincarnis ' from all Chemists aid
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
4/6. but if you experience any
difficulty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5/7 tarrack St., Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JI VOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
TIVOLI THEATRE MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
A BIG BOOM!
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan at Glen’s.
|_| E R MAJESTY’S, S Y D N E Y.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF SO LONG, LETTY.
SATURDAY, APRIL 15.
J. C. WILLIAMSON'S Big and Beautiful Spectacu-
lar Extravaganza,
MOTHER GOOSE.
Plans at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 15.
.1. C. WILLIAMSON'S EASTER DRAMATIC
ATTRACTION.
The Most Interesting Theatrical Event of 1916.
“A NEW IDEA IN DRAMA.”
ON TRIAL.
Produced by arrangement with George M. Cohan.
Plans at Paling’s.
p AIACE THEAT R E, SYDN E Y.
W. .1. SHEPHARD Presents
THE GORGEOUS KIXEMAOOLOR
(Nature in Nature’s Colors)
In a Series of Programmes of National Interest,
including
TIIE WONDERFUL WILLIAMSON
SUBMARINE PICTURES.
Prices: 1/-, 2/-, 3/- (Reserved). Plan at Nicholson's.
PA LA C E TiIEA T R E. SYD N E \
SATURDAY NEXT. APRIL 15.
Jft N.TAI TS NEWENCLISH C?
PEC,
o’my
HEART
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by J HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
T II E WHITE CITY.
1 Rusheutter’s Bay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICIv, General Manager.
ymmwmvwyi
BARRINGTON MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
T RIANGI.E PLAYS AX
' THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.tn., 2 p.ra.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling's.
TH E GARDEN THEATRE,
1 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBES
DANDIES COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2/6 (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre 'Phone: William Street 512.
You haven’t seen Sydney until vou’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS
lhe Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER .1. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 15.
FOR ONE NIGHT ONLY.
TIJE QUAKER GJRL.
Monday, April 17, PAUL JONES; Tuesday, MA
MIE ROSETTE ; Wednesday, OUR MISS GIBBS;
Thursday, GIPSY LOVE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* Direction J C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL
in
TW IN BEDS.
A CARNIVAL OF LAUGHTER.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/--
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-, Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
GEORGE MARLOW presents the Brilliant
Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON
AND HIS CAT.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-,
Am usements.
King
Lessees..
THEATRE, M E L B O U R X E.
..BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
RETURN OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in the
FANTASTICAL COMEDY DRAMA,
A MHSSAGH FROM M A US.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan's.
HEAUDIT O R I U >T7
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, APRIL 15.
.1. & N. TAIT. present.
Bv arrangement with Jack W aller,
THE IDEALS OE 191(5.
Direct from Principal Theatres London.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan at Allan's.
[J O l THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E
FULLER’S THEATRES k VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
CLARK AND WALLACE. MONAHAN AND
SHEEHAN, FOUR GONDOLIERS. BALANCING
STEVENS, BELLORA. GRACIE QUINE, GEORGE
CROTTY, DECAR. LEE ALDOUS TRIO, VICTOR
AND CLOTHILDA.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
|_| O Y T’S PICT IRES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOW S.
HOYT'S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
r> I R C H & CARROL I.
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
Business Announcements.
GETTING A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
Constipation disfigure-; the complexion
with pimples and blotches. Poisonous mat-
ter which should have been expelled from
the system is retained and gives rise to im-
purities in the blood. Cosmetics and oint-
ments are more likely than not to aggravate
the trouble by blocking the pores of the skin.
Regularity must be established to remove the
trouble.
Pinkettes. the dainty new laxative, quickly
clear away all offending matter without the
least griping or discomfort. In every house-
hold such a simple, safe medicine is needed.
Pinkettes are tiny, sugar-coated ovals, pleas-
ant and easy to take.
Pinkettes are a corrective for bad breath,
will clear the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness, head-
aches. constipation and whenever a gentle
laxative is required. Write to the I>r. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co.. Sydney, for a free trial
sample mentioning Tiie Bulletin. Pink-
ettes are Is. a bottle at all medicine dealers.
—A DVT.
YOUR 32 TEETH
are 32 reasons for using
§
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
Oxygen is Nature's great purifier ; that
is why ‘‘Calox” prevents dental troubles,
by removing the cause
of tooth decay.
YOU CAN SEE
the whitening effect of
the OXYGEN when
using “CAGOX."
All Chemists,
I) rape r s, Fancy
Goods Stores and
Tobacconists.
CALOX
hOHTSERR^T
SAUCE
ss
§
&
dire
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Business Announcements.
ABBEY
SHOES.
You get comfort, style and long
service in every pair of Abbey-
Shoes.
'Ye illustrate a very high-grade
Tan Willow Calf Elastic Side
Root, specially designed for farm
and station use. It is very smart
in appearance. a long-wearing
boot, and most comfortable.
Price - 28/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Cpposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
bJ
«sr
vv
JW
SKZ-
:<■
£k£'
GO'
COPPER AND ALUMINUM
kitchen utensils take on a
cheerful newness when
polished with
KIAG OP
metal polish
The wonder working,
safest and quickest of all polishes.
Two size cans at all Grocerv. Hardware
and Drug Stores. Look for the Photo on cm.
(fjPILLARINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
1
The moustache is
popular with officers.
Follow the fashion.
“Oapillarine” will
secure you a perfect
moustache in double-
quick time. It has
rleliffhted hundreds.
Why not send for a
Jar to day?
PRICE 10/6 JAR-POST FREE
Craig Sz Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIM ERUPTIONS,
Vhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, iiTitable
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate tczeina di. PP*
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, cle
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Rsdness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Sulpholineis prepared by‘hegreat Skin Speca^on
J. Pepper&Co. ,Ltd. .Bedford 1-aboratones.
S.E., England, and can be obttinM '
chemists and stores throughout th


Came On Legs. Then Spread All
Over Body. Cuticura Soap and
Ointment Completely Healed.
Duman St., Charters Towers, Queens-
land. —“For six months I suffered with a
rash which started with
little lumps and then turned
into sores. They first came
on my legs and then spread
and appeared scattered all
over my body becoming
very itchy and causing me
many sleepless nights.
“Seeing the Cuticura
Remedies advertised I ob-
tained some Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment and applied them as directed.
After using the Cuticura Soap and Ointment
for three months I was completely cured.”
(Signed) Miss Annie Askew, Feb. 22, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
VY
BENGER’S
Food
for
Delicate
Children .
f When children
are weakly from
birth or through illness the
digestive strength is naturally
sub-normal, and, as there is
failure to extract full nourish-
ment from ordinary food,
malnutrition results.
Benger’s Food is specially
recommended for overcoming
the ill effects of malnutrition
in growing children.
♦
Food
For CHILDREN,
Invalids, and the aged,
is sold by Druggists, etc., ez'erywhere.
Benger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids and the
Aged, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, Eng.
Branch Offices— Nf.W YORK (U.S.A.) 92 William Street.
SYDNEY (n.S.W.) ii 7, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents —National Drug oc Chemical Co., Ltd.,
34, Bt Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches
throughout Canada. 177 A
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALS
L/NES
S
kirT s
#
CATALOGUE
/kNO
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
lc fIONTER ST NEWCASTLE
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Drapery, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., 3d. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases £5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,” 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W.C., England. [1
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the es onu
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SxDjNEx.
Directors : —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. B lrns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winehcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., iv. ~
Samuel Hordern, Esq. ,
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A , F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, becretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 ~ £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed . . £19,808,00
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospec us
and full information without delay.
Ed
#,l. j
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and (lounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. the picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a “find” in the way of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostoek No.
OqBoo
i
,*sy-
rs
»
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoek.”
823
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
The Sydney § Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and other parts
f or Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS
SHEETINGS
FLANNELETTES
179
mm
m
-i
m
VJ
' M.
ESTABLISHED OVER 100 YEARS
Waterman’s
( Ideal )
Fountain Pen
THEY answered their
Country’s call, now
give them the means
to answer their Country’s
letters. Send your friend on
Active Service a Waterman’s Ideal, the World’s
Best Pen. Choose the Safety Type because
it is handiest for the Soldier. It can be
carried loose in the pocket in any position, and
will not leak.
4 Types —Regular, Safety,
Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, if jje |Un Corner, London, England.
AUSTRALIA: Harold D. Dixon, 105 Clarence St., Sydney.
£
From London: The contemplated tax on
theatre tickets is exciting much discussion.
The Actors’ Association has adopted a reso-
lution declaring that, “while all classes must
be willing to contribute to the enormous ex-
penditure involved by the war,” it “hopes
the Government will make a tax on theatre
tickets as small as possible, so as not to
embarrass an industry that has already suf-
fered so severely.” Matthew Lang, who is
giving 11 performances a week at the Strand
—“Mr. Wu” and “The Merchant of Venice”
—puts forward quite a new idea. He has
no fear of the proposed tax, he says, as it
will give the public an additional incentive
to “patronise the popular-price theatre.”
Incidentally the Strand is a popular-price
theatre.
“C. Ockney” : One of the most interesting
theatrical events of the year thus far is the
London production of an operatic version
of the classic Sheridan piece “The Critic.”
The composer is also an Irishman, Charles
Villiers Stanford, Knight, whose “Shamus
O’Brien” and “Savonarola” had already
gained him much kudos among opera-lovers
and musical amateurs. The general public
many years ago had signified its approval of
his rollicking “Father O’Flynn” and other
ballads. On this occasion Stanford scored a
triumph, and in doing so drove one of the
last nails into the coffin of so-called musical
comedy.
“0.K.”: There is in Melbourne at least
one teacher of the Charles Morell method
of voice production who can show wonderful
results. A lady whom the German singing
teachers had reckoned a hopeless case of
post-nasal growth, and an “impossible”
vocalist, has been converted into a rich
mezzo-soprano. A very young man, whose
original small baritone had faded into noth-
ingness from the effects of unscientific train-
ing, is now in a fair way to distinction. His
voice is strong and melodious. Here is a
teacher —Theophilus Roberts —who brings
surgical knowledge to bear on the throats of
his patients. He makes them all able to
sing. His theory is that everybody with an
ear for music and no actual deformity in the
throat can be taught to vocalise pleasingly
or charmingly. In curing a relaxed throat
or post-nasal growth he creates a good
singer. There’s nothing pretentious about
the youthful-looking person. His pupils
advertise him. He gets the results in a
little room in a city building. Meanwhile
the ordinary ambition of the ordinary local
Voice is to be sent to Europe to get half of
its natural music trained out of it.
“Screen”: Bourke-street will have 10 pic-
ture houses when the almost-finished Empire
Theatre and the threatened Union Co.’s place
are ready to swallow audiences. With the
three Melbourne palaces that are out of the
consecrated Bourke-street, the city will
shortly have the choice of 13. In the sub-
urbs there are at least two dozen in the
first-class, and the total muster is about 60.'
They must be making their own public, as
the theatres are not suffering.
“Dumper”: The British Government’s
recent Order-in-Council prohibiting the ex-
port of cinematograph films is due to cellu-
lose being wanted for the manufacture of
guncotton. It is hard on the manufacturers,
who have had a bitter struggle against
foreigners. In pre-Hun days very little Eng-
lish stock was manufactured, most of the
film-printers being under contract to buy
Eastman stock. Then the recent duty on
negative induced numbers of overseas buyers
to stipulate that their purchases must be
printed on English stock. This saved them
money, for the printers carefully passed the
duty on when using an imported article. The
English movie manufacturers will also be
hard hit. The import duty on foreign nega-
tives is Bd. a foot, and since it was imposed
English productions have leaped wonderfully.
Not only has popular feeling veered round
in their favor in England, but for the first
time English productions have created enthu-
siasm in the U.S.A. The cutting off of the
export trade will mean a big loss to what
is now a flourishing industry. It will also
mean that Australian importers will trans-
fer their buying to New York, which will
become the world’s clearing-house for films,
a position until now held by London.
Kipling’s “Light That Failed” is going on
the screen and should make a fine play. The
Pathe firm will do the embalming.
THE HERO’S PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor “Larry” Rentoul, the eminent Melbourne
Presbyterian divine, now an army chaplain, at a
recent meeting of the National Council of Women
deplored the fact that so many women and girls
“find an extraordinary attraction in buttons and a
uniform.” Even he himself “received notice that had
never been his before.”
When I put on this uniform
I little knew the dangers grave,
The sad temptations that would storm
My soul. Thank Heaven, I am brave l
Though bright eyes glance I do not quail,
Though red lips smile all wet with dew,
I do not fail,
Nor turn my tail —■
By Heaven, sir, I’ll see it through!
I walk upon the crowded street,
My buttons glinting fine to see,
And every pretty girl I meet
Straight turns a battery on me.
Now, this attention might unnerve
A weaker mind, and heart more tender;
I do not swerve,
The King I serve,
My motto still is “No surrender l"
If I could cast the khaki by
In cleric garb the maids I’d pass
Unnoticed. Do I flinch? Not II
I don a little extra brass,
I polish it, and dress with care
(Than I no officer is sleeker).
That all the fair
May flock and stare—
Far better me than one who’s weaker l
VICTORIA.
E. D.


Guaranteed
All British.
Guaranteed
Ail British.
&
AAFETY-RAZOR BLADES.
Hade of FINEST QUALITY, PERFECTLY TEMPERED, SELECTED SHEFFIELD
STEEL in the largest blade factory in the world. “Kanok” Blades last
CONSIDERABLY LONGER than any other make—this is a provable fact.
mmm
mm
wmmmm
mmm
STYLE A. —For Gillette and
similar types of Razors,
2/9
per doz.
Post Free.
wmmm
mmmmm
mm
gsli
=
=T=B
Ms
STYLE B.—For Clemak,
Ever Ready, Gem Junior,etc.
3-
per doz.
Post Free.
mm
mm
win
ST\ LE C.—For Auto=Strop,
3|3
per doz.
Post Free.
Sole Agents for
New South Wales
and Queensland
imH&lliliMKdia
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
Australia’s Greatest
Sports Outfitters
and Tobacconists
Branches-CITY and SUBURBS; also at Hunter St., Newcastle; and Edward Stßrisbane
THE INKLESS PEN
Writes with Plain Water
Six Penca
Each
The Inkless Pen with one dip of water will write 200 words.
The mb is of special construction and does not corrode, so that
it lasts very much longer than an ordinary pen The anting
is copyabk. When not in use. the pen turns into the bcldei
and can be carried in the pocket without risk of leakage. St*
Pence each. 2 for Nine Pence, 3 for One Shilling, posted any
where. The Union Co., 299 Elzabnh Street. Mclb
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Do
You
Use
It
r>
o
*sg*
-SS«'
,*•:
• s •■•■«
§$
m> § •* ■'
iat
i
SKS
M:
: i
:.•,
!?
-
: : ?
e
If
not
try
a
Case
Plume Benzine
is the most powerful Benzine on the market and
will drive your car up any grade.
Its specific gravity is only .715 An imperial gallon
weighs less than 7 lbs. ozs. f and, being light,
it is easily changed to vapour, and mixing readily
with the oxygen in the air forms a powerful
explosive mixture, which is quickly and easily
ignited by any kind of spark.
The magneto need not always give the hottest
and fattest spark, and as no liquid petrol gets to
the combustion chamber, the explosions are
regular and uniform, the engine powerful and
sweet-running, and, more important still, there
is less tendency to the formation of carbon.
Plume Benzine is the brand used by the motorist who knows—
A fuel that gives him easy starting; a sweet-running engine;
and more mileage to the gallon than other benzines.
All Garages and Stores
"\ acuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
c.j
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1 6 & 2 6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
IvYNOCH -SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
"mail on the land.
Smokeless —effective
reliable —it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge. and is deservetllj
|M>piilar.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
p-
SI
I'.-
m
IQ


A Mother of Eleven
Baby
Pinnington
(from a
photo.).
m
MH
• Sr,x
to
'll'
' .:j-h
excnui;
Praises
REXONA.
“I have much pleasure in telling- you of the
great benefit to my baby by the use of Rexona.
When about three months old he had a dread-
ful sore break out all over the top of his head,
from a chill. I tried two or three different
kinds of ointment, but none seemed to do it
any good, so I thought I would try Rexona,
and got a pot. It did not seem to improve his
head much, but neither did it seem any worse,
so I thought I would persevere, and used it
until I had used three small pots, and then I
got a large pot, and used only a little of that
when his head was quite well. I was still
anxious, as one neighbor said it was too strong
for such a tiny baby. Another one said it
was teeth eczema, and would return every time
he cut any teeth, but he is now two years old and
has all his teeth, and from the time it healed
to now he has not had the slightest sore or
eruption of any kind on any part of his body,
and has a head of beautiful, thick, curly hair.
Perhaps you would like to know how I used
the ointment. When I gave baby his daily
bath I did not wash his head, but when I had
him dressed I bathed his head in nice warm
water, and then spread the ointment on a clean
piece of rag and laid it on the top of his head
to quite cover the sore, and kept it in its place
with an old, soft towel, very open, so as not
to make his head hot. You see the nearest
doctor was 17 miles away, so we have to trust
to ourselves very much, and I shall never be
without Rexona again. I always introduce
Rexona whenever I get a chance. I am so
thankful for what it did for my baby boy.”
(Signed) Mrs. W. PINNINGTON,
Port Vincent, South Australia.
REXONA—the Family Friend
Rexona is a Reliable Remedy for all Eruptions and Irritations of the Skin,
Sore Head, Eczema, Pimples, Chilblams, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Cuts, Burns,
Bruises, Scalds, Bad Begs, Stings of Insects, and all kinds of Inflammation.
Rexona is sold only in triangular pots, at 1/6, and in larger pots, containing
nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
N
a
V
M I
I
k
Lime Juice
The ideal summer beverage
cooling, refreshing and health-
giving. New sea.on’s supp’ies
lately shipped from London.
“Montserrat ” is sold by all leading
storekeepers.
This Week s TOILET HINTS
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY RECIPES COLLECTED FROM VARIOUS
EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads, oily skin
and enlarged pores.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly cor-
rected by a unique new process. A tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist, is dropped
in a tumbler of hot water which will then of
course “fizz” briskly. When the effervescence
has subsided the face is bathed with the
stymol-charged water and then dried with a
towel. The offending blackheads, of their own
accord, come right off on the towel, the large
oily pores immediately contract and efface
themselves naturally. There is no squeezing,
forcing or any drastic action. The skin is
left uninjured, smooth, soft and cool. A few
such treatments should be taken at intervals
of three or four days thereafter in order to
ensure the permanence of the pleasing result
so quickly obtained.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores youthful
appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist an ounce of concentrate of tamma-
lite and mix it with four ounces of bay rum.
Apply to the hair with a small sponge for a
few nights and the greyness will gradually
disappear. This liquid is not sticky or greasy
and does not injure the hair in any way. It
has been used for generations with most satis-
factory results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of
Superfluous Hair.
“Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol. obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
The Real Cause of Most
Bad Complexions.
“Health and Beauty.’’
It is an accepted fact that no truly beautiful
complexion ever came out of jars and bottles,
and the longer one uses cosmetics the worse
the complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
must breathe. It also must expel, through
the pores, its share of the body’s effete
material. Creams and powders clog the
pores, interfering both with elimination and
bx-eathing. If more women understood this
there would be fewer self-ruined complexions.
If they would use ordinary mercolised wax
instead of cosmetics they would have natural
healthy complexions.
About Hair Tonics.
“Novel Recipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some won-
derful discovery for improving the hair, and
although this paragraph may seem a little
superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe may come
as a welcome change. One thing aboxxt it is
that it will grow hair, and also prevent it
falling out. From your chemist get an origi-
nal package of boranium, to this add j-pint of
bay rum, allow it to stand 30 minutes, then
add sufficient water to make half a pint. Rub
briskly into the scalp with the finger-tips and
you will immediately experience that clean
tingling sensation which is a sure sign of
healthy action. [2
The Dream Kiss.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’ WAS spring with the ash-trees in bud,
I The sallies had on their green
shawl;
Och, something made songs in my blood —
’Twas fine to be living at all.
’Twas spring that was hot in my blood —
Och, life had long dreams in her shawl.
The birds had a song in the trees.
’Twas the wonder of life that came there,
The pink of the world on her knees
And the kiss of the sun on her hair ;
Her dress was just short to her knees —
’Twas laughing she came on me there.
“Tall man, will you walk with me far?
»Tis the bull of black death on the hill
With the eye of him red like a star
And the horns of him angered to kill.”
Sure the bull with the eyes like a star
Was quiet as death on the hill.
Och, heart, but her step was so light,
The lips of her sweet as the spring,
Her hand like the thorn growing white
In the song that the hedge-linnets sing—
Sure, my head with young dreams was so
, light,
I was mad when she started to sing.
’Twas far past the bull she would go.
“Fine girl, what a journey is this !
Sure, am I to convey you or no?
For the price I will ask is a kiss.”
’Twas sure as the world I would go ;
But, heart, I was wild for a kiss.
Grey walls with red moss on the stone
Stand bare with no roof in the whins,
Long walls that are standing their lone
Burnt cold with old fire for their sins.
’Twas a king that had built them in stone ;
Rest his soul, they were red with his sins.
Faith, she turned with a laugh in her eyes ;
Sure, she gave her white neck a fine
twist —■
“Och, man that are tall and not wise,
’Tis my lips are too red to be kist.”
Sure, I answered the laugh in her eyes;
For her lips couldn’t help but be kist.
Och, heart, was I dreaming or dead?
’Twas the grey walls stood high in my
sight
With a roof of thick thatch on their head
And the long windows full with the light.
’Tis sure that I dreamt I was dead
And the grey walls stood high in the light.
Now w r ho would have dressed me at all
Like a showman that drums at a fair?
’Twas me wore a kilt and a shawd
With a gold collar under my hair.
Was I Malachy’s self, sure, at all,
Or a showman to shout at a fair?
With the beard and the hair of me long
And a sword hanging white at my side —
Troth, boys. I was hearty and strong
With fiddle and song for my pride ;
With the fiddler man singing too long,
Troth,'twas queer with a sword at my side.
Now who would be this at my hand ?
White woman, your lips were so red —
Is it mad that I am where I stand?
lias the kiss of you killed my soul dead?
Is it dead that I am where I stand?
Och, woman, your kiss was too red !
Bold men with the horns at their mouth
Drank lightly the good health to me.
Bold bride with soft looks like the south —
Och, she sipped from a shell of the sea ;
From a shell at the red of her mouth
She drank with the love-look on me.
Drunk night; and the lights w T ere all low!
“White girl, what a wonder is this” —-
'Twas the night with its lamps was too slow,
With the mouth of me dry for a kiss. . . .
“Whisht, girl, they are drunk ; but stoop
low”
Och heart, I was mad for a kiss.
Faith, she turned with a laugh in her eyes,
Sure she gave her white neck a fine twist—
“Och, man that are tall and not wise
’Tis my lips are too red to be kist.”
Sure, I answered the laugh in her eyes ;
For her lips couldn’t help but be kist.
Grey walls with red moss on the stone
Stand hare with no roof in the whins.
Long walls that are standing their lone
Burnt cold with old fires for their sins—
Heart alive. I was lying my lone.
Kissed cold with a dream in the whins!
’Twas spring with the ash-tree in bud.
The sallies had on their green shawl;
Sure, something was wi'd in mv blood ;
- ’Twas mad to be living at all —
Och, girl with your kiss in my blood.
Come back with a dream in your shawl!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Confessions of an Untoothed
Shark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE said ’is word wuz his bond, too,
the cow,” said Burrows hotly.
My client, Joe Burrows, had
entered into an agreement to purchase the
Mafeking Billiard Saloon at Tauwhata, and
his indignation was justified. McCann, the
vendor, had taken him to the eminently
respectable Costleigh for preparation of the
agreement, and the usual provision forbid-
ding the vendor to carry on business in compe-
tition with his purchaser had been carefully
omitted. Joe had now got the office that
the Imperial Boarding House was installing
a flash billiard-room with up-to-date fittings,
and McCann was to manage it.
“Red velvet seats ’e’s ’avin’, and mirrors,”
he complained; “and a doorway into the
temperance bar.”
This last was the point. Ilobinson of the
Imperial took the broad view of the word
“temperance” that is popular in no-license
districts, and the entrance from the billiard-
room was a stroke of genius, meaning the
extinction of any rival saloon.
“It’s the final for me ’undred,” went on
Burrows—“the blessed final.”
I knew Costleigh at his smoothest and
best, but in coaxing a cool hundred by way
of deposit on a sale of £2.10 he had excelled
himself.
“A hundred pounds !” I said. “However
did you come to weigh in with a deposit
like that?”
“DunnO,” he said. “ ’Tain’t as if mugs
wuz like blackberries, neither. I ’ad to work
hard enuft to get it.”
He doubted Costleigh’s paternity with
unction, and suggested the white-slave traf-
fic as the proper place for the exercise of
the plump lawyer’s persuasive abilities.
Armed with an order I went over to
Costleigh’s office and perused the document.
It was voluminous and detailed, brass-bound
and copper-riveted. As a preliminary I
tried the vox hurnana stop —talked of my
unfortunate client, pecuniary-embarrass-
ment, the savings of years, and so on. This
was useless, and I remarked acidly that the
omission of the usual restraint-of-trade
clause called for explanation. This was
another mistake. Outraged righteousness
made the pulsing blood pressure in the puff
at the back of Costleigh’s neck more dan-
gerous than ever, and I fell back on sw r eet
reasonableness. He eventually promised to
see his client and endeavor to get a refund
of the deposit.
I knew what this meant, and was con-
vinced as I reached my office of the hope-
lessness of the situation. Burrows’s ’un-
dred was gone without doubt, and I read
the agreement over again mechanically.
The last clause was one of Costleigh’s
wordy wonders. After providing that Joe
should sign all the “deeds, documents,
papers or writings” and “comply with, make,
do, perform, observe, carry out and fulfil”
all the “regulations, acts, agreements, coven-
ants, conditions, matters and things” that
were necessary to get the Borough Council
to issue him a saloon-keeper’s license, it
concluded: “In the event of such consent
being withheld this agreement shall he null
and void." I began to see light. I collected
Burrows from the saddler’s shop, where,
seated on a pile of harness, he was yarning,
and took him to the office for an “attend-
ance, conferring and advising” (see bill of
costs). I opened the interview by observing
that in the event of the police report not
being satisfactory it was possible that the
Borough Council’s consent would be refused
to Joe’s license, in which case the agreement
was void and the deposit would have to be
returned.
Burrows reckoned that the “tatics” were
good. “You understand, of course,” I ex-
plained, “that in the event of the license
being refused, your good name will be in
jeopardy?”
“Me good name!” he snorted. “Anyway,
a hundred is a smackin’ good price for it.”
The first step in my offensive was to
make a cash collection for general purposes.
A formal statement would have to be pre-
pared of the recovered hundred, showing
disbursements and costs, and many a better
man than Burrows, after emerging from the
crater out of which I had pulled him, had
insisted on taxing my bill. I therefore spoke
coldly of Burrows’s idea that I should pay
myself out of the deposit when it was re-
funded.
My interview with the sergeant was quite
satisfactory. He was new in Tauwhata, but
I had already sampled his goodwill and
knew that, as Joe said of the blonde waitress
at the Imperial, he would listen to reason.
He said he would make the usual inquiries,
but from what he already knew he was satis-
fied that my client was not the sort of per-
son to whom a license should be issued.
The general purpose fund after the conver-
sation still showed a substantial surplus.
To make doubly sure it was now neces-
sary to see the Mayor. Of him I felt
reasonably sure. I had obliged him much
by acting for an incognito purchaser of the
section that blocked the drainage outlet of
the Tauwhata Dairy Factory, of which he
was chairman of directors. After comment-
ing severely on the exorbitant price which
my client demanded, he explained to the
bewhiskered Board that there was no help
for it, and that the amount had better be
passed for payment. We had divided a
decent little sum by way of profit. He said
he would be guided solely by the sergeant’s
report, but in any case he thought it was
time that the borough authorities looked
more closely into the character of the appli-
cants for billiard-room licenses.
In Burrows’s words, “things wuz pie.” The
license was refused on the unanimous vote
of the Council, and Costleigh’s neck was
terrifying when we went over to collect the
deposit. Joe, itching for a dramatic finish,
insisted on coming with me, and when the
cheque was signed delivered an address
which had more adjectives than discretion.
I felt uneasy when on our return he
asked me for Costleigh’s cheque. However,
my want of faith for once proved groundless.
He was back in a few minutes with the roll,
counted out six fivers, and passed them over.
Then he stopped and said :
“You wuz sayin’ that me good name’s done
in ?”
I agreed that there was a likelihood of
something of the kind. He peeled two more
fivers off the roll and said :
“Well, then, ’old those. I’m goin’ over
to settle with McCann.”
I did not get the drift at once, and he
explained :
“ ’Old ’em —you’ll want ’em for the fine
an’ setry when I’ve fixed the blighter up.”
They were wanted all right. The magis-
trate characterised the assault as brutal and
violent, and fined Burrows ten pounds, half
the fine to go towards McCann’s medical
expenses.
I have never seen anyone quite so cheer-
ful as Joe when he came in to pay my fee
for his defence.
“It wuz decent,” he said, “but I dunno
about puttin’ old Costleigh on me list—the
tariff’s a bit ’igh.”
EX-GENT.


DANGER!
BacKache, Rheumatic Twinges, Urinary Troubles, Gravel point to Kidney
WeaKness-and may lead to serious complications if negledled.
For the overworked house-
wife and tired-out man Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are a
blessing. They quickly heal
and regulate the Kidneys,
helping them to filter from
the blood the poisons and
impurities which all too often
cause disease. Their good
effect is often felt immediately,
and a fresh and invigorated
action of the kidneys brings
back to men and women the
strength their work‘demands.
Doan’s Pills do not act on
the bowels. They do one
j
thing —they cleanse and heal
the kidneys, and they do that
well. They are equally good
for men and women, and a
safe medicine for children.
C“ Every picture tells a story/*
Si
SH=
{ur:
$5l;
trtff
nit?
5$
The aching back warns you—
The rheumatic twinges—the lumbago pains
That tired, drowsy, irritable feeling.
CURED TO STAY CURED,
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
TWO YEARS CURED.
Mr. W. H. Trott, Keith, Gannon Street, T
Sydney, says: “Off and on for years I suffered a gooa
deal from backache and kidney trouble. _ Sometimes
my back used to ache terribly, the pain being pa
larly severe when I did any stooping. At my w<
I have to stoop a lot, so it was very hard on me, ana
handicapped me greatly. I took several medicines,
but none of them seemed to suit my case.
Backache Kidney Pills were at last recommended t
me, and they proved to be the remedy I want ,
after taking a few doses I felt much bett< , •
continued with the Pills until I had • ,
thorough course, and I am glad to say they
the pain out of my back and made me feel splendid.
Two years have elapsed since then, and I , am } k „ he
of backache, but I always keep Doans Backac
Kidney Pills by me, and take a dose or so whenev
I feel a little off color, and they never fail to do n
good.”
| TEN YEARS CURED. ~~|
Mr. Lewis Williams, 602 Botany Road, Botany,
says: “I was a great sufferer with my back, and tne
pain was at times so bad that I have ha £ bout
my work and go home. I also had to £ w j t hout
in a bent position, as I could not straighten but
increased suffering. I used vanous prepara
only got slight temporary relief. Beading f t 0
effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney I ills, I ( «
try them. One bottle eased the pain, and the* secon
completed my cure. This did not hapi . s jg n
but about seven years ago, and I have had o te “,.
of backache all that time; so it. is always
porary relief, but a perfect ou ie ' . , Kidney
advising my friends to use Doan s Backa
Pills, and take this opportunity to publiclj iecou
Three years later Mr. Williams says. I g
well, and have been free of backache smce
Backache Kidney Pills cured me ten yeais ag •
1
Backache
Kidney
At all Chemists and Stores, 2/9
per bottle; or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Renegade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PHINEAS JONES was a native of
Wattle Gully, an obscure little place
that isn’t marked on any map except-
ing always the mud maps that Phineas draws
on the road with a stick when directing
some unfortunate wanderer to the awful
place. He was a timber-getter, having com-
menced in that pioneering work as soon as he
was able to ride after bullocks and act as off-
sider at pinches for his father, and was edu-
cated between whiles at the little slab school
in Wattleville. His father was the only
one in a community of 29 who subscribed
to current literature. He took the Govern-
ment Gazette and Hansard, and as he
read them aloud to the family in the big
fireplace at night, especially the political
speeches, which he punctuated with long
discourses of his own, the budding genius
beside him, which was Phineas, got not only
an early grip of the world's doings, but, fol-
lowing the bent of the oldest inhabitant,
which was his father, shaped his interests
into a decided political channel. Thus he
talked politics in his boyhood in the timber-
getters’ camp; he talked politics to himself
as he plodded along beside his bullocks with
the whip on his shoulder; and he dreamed
politics at night, when he was mostly mem-
ber for the district driving around and
handing out bridges and culverts to Wattle
Gully and neighboring deputationists.
He was so politically obsessed that he
named all his team after leading members
of Parliament; the near-side bullocks were
the Government and the offsiders the
Opposition. When there was a change in
the House he changed the sides of his team,
and consequently had trouble with it for a
week or two after. The new Premier and
the new Ministers took a lot of breaking in
to office. When he had a good side, includ-
ing several bearing the names of members
whose politics pleased him, his fondest hope
was to see those members returned at every
election.
Sometimes he took a dislike to a poli-
tician because a bullock bearing his name
was intractable or a loafer, or perhaps the
animal would be named after a member of
Parliament who had incurred his displeas-
ure. In either case the unfortunate brute
would get more than his share of the whip
and abuse, and the driver would see him
poleaxed before ever he would get a vote
from him again. When the member he
represented was defeated, the driver would
wave his hat joyfully and cry: “Hooray!
you’ve got kicked out, you waster —now you
can go to the beef cask.” And ten to one
the ex-M.P. would be fattened up and
killed.
As he grew older Phineas was listened to
with more respect, and came to be regarded
as an authority on Parliamentary matters.
Nothing pleased him better than to meet one
who could argue with him. Then he ex-
pressed his views at great length, dilating
in particular on local requirements and
timber-getters’ grievances, the disgraceful
condition of the roads of Wattle Gully.
and the scandalous neglect of the district
generally. In this way he acquired a mas-
terful oratory—that is, for Wattle Gully—
and when someone suggested that he should
put up for Parliament the idea took root
in his mind and stayed there. He was con-
vinced that he was the. man to save the
country. He went about more, even to
towns and hamlets 20 miles away; he
attended all meetings and social functions
in the neighborhood, and hurled long
speeches at the gatherings on the least pro-
vocation.
These were not impromptu speeches,
though they were supposed to be. Phineas
carefully wrote them out while lying in his
tent at night by the light of a malodorous
slush-lamp; and he practised them when no-
body was about. Joe Anderson had seen
him coming along the timber track one day,
with the whip in one hand and his hat in
the other, orating loudly to the surrounding
bush. He recognised at once that this sort
of thing would get him talked about as a
lunatic, so he contented himself with a
short address at his camp at night-time.
He stood on a stump and talked to the trees,
now with his hands under his coat-tails (or
where they should be), now leaning impress-
ively forward and tapping a finger on
his palm, and again throwing his hand out
towards the audience that wasn’t there.
Occasionally he would wheel round sharply
and answer an imaginary interjector in his
best sarcastic manner, and he would put
in the hand-claps and hear-hears of his
admirers, who were absent, and wind up by
moving a vote of confidence in himself,
which he would carry unanimously.
A genius like Phineas Jones wasn’t to he
buried in the bush of Wattle Gully for ever.
He prospered with his timber-carrying; he
bought a town house, married the charming
daughter of poor-but-houest parents, and
became a respectable and God-fearing citizen
of Wattleville. Then he shoved and bored
his way into everything that had honorable
intentions. There couldn’t be a dogfight
without Phineas being among those present.
He harangued at street corners; he was
Prime Minister in the debating club, and the
leading light of the progress association. He
was so many things and in so many places
that he scarcely had time to drive bullocks
those days. In fact, bullock-driving was get-
ting beneath him, though he never let that
be suspected even when, later, he hired men
to do it for him. He blossomed into an auc-
tioneer and timber-buyer, by which time he
was indeed a busy man of importance, and
so well known that there was no reason why
the idea that had been planted in his head in
the bogs of Wattle Gully should not blossom
also.
Soon it was known that he was a candi-
date for the constituency of Wattleville.
Phineas made it known far and wide by
shoals of handbills and placards, backed by
a stentorian voice trained in the lordly pro-
fession of ox-conductor and seller of old fur-
niture. Old mates and co-workers read on
the trees by the roadside: “Vote for Phineas
Jones. The Working Man’s Friend. The
Timber-getters’ Hope. The Man Who
Understands Your Work and Wants.” He
talked to them with the enthusiasm of a
great local patriot whose interests were
wrapped up in Wattle Gully and its people.
He promised them roads, bridges, culverts,
schools and Government billets. Above all,
he was a man who would always remember
old mates, who would never turn his back on
the laborer no matter how high he might
climb himself. He had been a working man
all his life, and was still in heart one of them-
selves, and would ever be. In short, he was
a modest, honest democrat, who was never
going to change and who regarded the capi-
talist as the scourge of the country.
He talked like that at his timber-camp
meetings, but the timber-getters noticed that
he wore a different coat when he was among
the squattocracy. They observed that he had
social ambitions; already he considered him-
self a superior person among the rugged
knights of the long-handled whip. When
Joe Anderson met him in town Phineas
didn’t know him. Joe was a good-natured,
simple soul, but utterly impossible in select
circles. On the same occasion Phineas, mag-
nificently important in a nailcan hat and
clawhammer coat, passed his father in the
street without seeing him ; but then he was
walking between the visiting magistrate and
the new post-master, and the old man was
rough-shod in blue dungarees and a slouch
hat, and was wearing a leather belt with a
huge plebeian pouch on it. It would have
been embarrassing to have had to admit the
relationship to his gentleman friends.
These little peculiarities got Phineas talked
about in a fashion that was decidedly un-
parliamentary. The timber warriors re-
garded him as a renegade, and for awhile
openly resented his unbrotherly airs. Then
all at once they came round to him again,
and flattered him with positive assurances
of success at the ballot. He had their sup-
port to a man. Phineas, confident in him-
self, prepared to leave Wattleville immedi-
ately after the election. He sold out his
interests and possessions to Brown, a shrewd
business rival —and subsequently discovered
that Brown had cornered the timber trade as
well. But it didn’t matter to him now ; his
sphere was politics; and he spent all his
time and much hard cash in the campaign.
On election day there was a great rally of
timber-getters in Wattleville. They rallied
round Jones; they shepherded him and
toasted him until he subsided limply on to a
couch in his committee-room. That was late
in the afternoon. About 10 p.m. they pulled
him together, and spruced him up a bit. Then
his excited eyes lit on the figures that had
been posted up in the room : —•
Phineas Jones: —1202.
Daniel Murphy:—l7.
Phineas at once ordered free drinks to be
served out at the pub, after which he was
escorted to a commanding balcony to deliver
his thanksgiving speech.
His appearance was greeted with wild
cheers. Urged by grinning associates, he
commenced to beef out the speech he had pre-
pared for the occasion. At first dead silence
fell on the crowd. The hero of the day was
warming up before they got the hang of the
situation. Then the spontaneous hilarity of
the audience shook the roof, at which Phineas
halted with a stupefied look. He made
another start, and was greeted with catcalls.
He couldn’t understand it. They had all
voted for him, and now they guyed him Tt
was too much for his muddled brain, and ore
sently he gulped down an overdose of whisW
and collapsed. -
When he woke in the morning his wife’s
eyes reproached him from the bedside She
threw a damp copy of the local pap r a t
him, and walked out with an air of mingled
humiliation and scorn. In perplexity he
opened the sheet. For a moment he ceased
to breathe, and his eyes bulged as he read-
Daniel Murphy :—1225.
Phineas Jones:— l7.
He was still staring at it in a cold tremor
when the old man slouched in.
“Why, bless me soul, boy,” he said, “I
was ’bout the only one who voted for y’er l ”
“The paper’s got the figures reversed i”
gasped Phineas. “It’s me that’s elected.”
“Elected be d —d ! You’re the biggest
fool on Wattle Gully,” said his father, with
feeling. “Th’ bullock-camp’s your Parlia-
ment.”
The shock made the deluded candidate ill
for a week. When he crept forth at last he
found everybody provokingly mirthful. He
had three fights within an hour, and wound
up by getting run in for riotous behavior.
That finished him in Wattleville. lie stole
away one night, and when last heard of he
was trekking north with a string of bullocks,
and spitting anathemas at the worst member
in the team, the name of which was Dan’l
Murphy.
EDWARD S. DORENDON.
The Glorious Age.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHY talk of the glorious age of
youth?
The haunting fear with its ghosts
a-row
At twenty-one is as much a truth
As it is in the later years we know.
Some dull alloys with the gold joys cram
In all the years that our fortunes give;
My glorious age is the age I am;
My glorious days are the days I live!
Forgot is the dross of years gone by,
Their dullness, loss and their ache and
pain ;
Because of the things that do not die
Some sigh for the old-time days again;
But life has a zest my pulse to cram
With the joys that the present hours can
give;
My glorious age is the age I am,
My glorious days are the days I live!
The thrill that lives is worth twenty dead,
However sweet may the memory seem
Of pleasures that warmed our hearts and
fled ;
To-day is a fact and the past is dream.
Though cares and troubles its hours may
cram,
Its light a measure of joy will give;
The glorious age is the age I am, _
The glorious day is the day I live!
N.s.w.
HAMER.


WESTINGHOUvSE
(Mcrse) CHAIN DRIVES
Mi
an
mi
;
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
•
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
r estinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne.v Zealand Office: 93-107;Featherston St., Wellington.
WEST, N. S. WAL
&
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCHYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/G
Lockyer s gives health- to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
Dinneforo's
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPOhtMMt
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Oonyinein*
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6.
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effect u all y
cuts short all
attacks st
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beat Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he oouffh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aote like a charm In
and simple DYSENTERY.
BRITIS
BULL DO
N
OCH.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
1 hese splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, or Oxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Do you feel Throaty
Then fly to the nearest Chemist and ask for
EVANS’ Pastilles.
Invaluable for throat and voice, affording instant relief. A
never failing remedy. Doctors prescribe them.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
A Dominant Position
among proprietary medicines is held to-day by Beecham's Pills after being
before the public for the lengthy period of seventy years. This fact alone,
furnishes overwhelming proof of the splendid value of this preparation.
It shows very clearly that Beecham's Pills have fully justified their claim
upon the public confidence. The unrivalled success of Beecham's Pills
supplies the best guarantee that those who have not yet tried them will
derive benefit if they will but put this excellent medicine to the test.
Beecham's Pills contain in their composition nothing but the most health-
giving ingredients of the finest quality obtainable. Beechamts Pills do not
claim to be a ** cure-all ** but they may be relied upon to improve the
digestive powers, strengthen the stomach, correct and stimulate the liver
and generally promote a condition of sound health and abundant bodily
vigour. Their undoubted success in these directions is the explanation
of the dominant position held to-day by
Uwcham’s pills
Sold in boxes, labelled, price 10Jd. (36 pills) 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
No. 304 A
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (EL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct » die-
stocks and screw-
ing machines.
One to fit your
pipe-threading
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
sotor Carriages
Cowerciae Vehicles -
Afißicomm Tractors
m DAIMLER COMPANY w
COV6NtftY,iNGIAN&.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heai a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
Calvert’s
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
MadebyF.C.CALVERT& Co., Manchester, En&
m
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
* J. URE SMITH, Manager.
ART
PR
S
£lOOO
WORK OF ART.
Value £5OO FIRST GREAT PRIZE Value £5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full value for the work of art, is prepared to find a
purchaser for same at the advertised amount if the winner so desires, also for the Second and Third
Prizes.
Second: Value £lOO. Third: Value £5O. And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO
EIGHT HOURS GREAT ART UNION
OOth Year—DIAMOND JUBILEE—6Oth Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning numbers will be
posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 15th April, or send Postal Note,. P. 0.0. or stamps with
Exchange added, direct to the representative, 165 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and
secure a chance in this great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing, 2nd May, 1916.
LEST YOU FOI
BUY TO-DAI
M. MILLS, Representative,
165 Flinders Lane, Melb., Victoria.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
I^XIAOttDNVm
:lti
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
It’s the
Original
L,ooß for
"V; ;.'^y■''■■ :; &V::
the Name
Hardie s Genuine
Used Jo place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walts, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID S ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
A
<tP‘
&
#
There
is only
ONE
SCHNAPPS
Reliable Machinery
for FARM 8 STATION REQUIREMENTS
Tangye Eampless Oil Engines.
Tangye Benzine Engines.
Tangye Suction Gas Plants.
Tangye Irrigation Plants and Pumps.
Tangye Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers.
Clayton & Shuttleworth Portable Steam
and Traction Engines, Thrashers, Steam
Road Rollers and Waggons.
h
iillllliliiiliiiiiililjllllllilliiip
“CLAYTON” PORTABLE STEAM ENGINE.
With Large Wheels to give
Ample Clearance.
TANCYE LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
Started Quickly like a Benzine Engine.
Munro Chaff cutters and Saw Benches.
Gane Milking Machines.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvesters,
Ploughs, Drills, Cultivators, etc.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines.
DALGETyY CO. Ltd.
Sole Agents,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, and all Branches.
THE
\VQUSEbEV
Sheep-shearing Machine
is the best in every way.
This year we are specialising: in one of the greatest improvement s to
the Wolseley Handpiece yet -introduced —the Bong-Bearing Bush. It
is demised to replace the old front, and hack bushes and ensures:
Perfect lubrication; coolness in running; easy adjustment of parts,
S££ length of hush in relation to spindle and economy in spare parts.
Write for descriptive printed matter.
Sole Agents:
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
Sydney.
A Thoroughly Tested Machine
The Barnes 20" All Geared Drill
THIS HEAVY DUTY, HIGH-SPEED DRILLING MACHINE possesses many advantages over the ordinary cone belt-
driven Drill. All cone belts are eliminated. No waste of time through Slipping, Shifting or Replacing Speed and Feed
Belts. IT HAS EIGHT GEARED SPEED CHANGES AND EIGHT GEARED POWER FEEDS. All controlled by a
Lever conveniently reached from front of Machine.
It all means increased output, and makes the Drill indispensable to the Busy Shop
iculars of our Stock of Drills. A large and varied Stock, from Small Hand Drills to High-speed Radials.
irite for
Engineers (St Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
For MINES and QUARRIES
Rock Breakers
Rolls
Stamp Mills
Gas and Oil Engines
Picks
Rock Drills
Screens
Explosives
Electric Motors
Shovels
STOCKS ON HAND.
LTD ■g Equitable Building, SYDNEY
