

the Veteran of Whiskies
R. Cat. WATISLIWTS & GO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—for—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N‘s*W* MOINT DE PIETE D Si €? Lip
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. . . Telephone: City 9325.
18<S Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 Qeorge Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
} Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN >
Made in Australia by
fnEDmiCKSTEADNSc
SYDNEY. '
Hultorv’^
Piivco^ic' 1
HomdA Bacorv
‘■lcoue,"
CHUBB’S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E NS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
GOLF
BALLS
“THE SILVER KING”
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
GOLF
BALLS
MaltHoid
roofs do not chip, nor split, nor
leak, nor rust.
Malthoid roofing is saturated through and
through with a compound that makes it water-
proof, weather-proof and spark-proof. It is the
perfect Roofing for Warehouse and Bungalow—
the ideal roofing for Australian conditions. Let
us send Samples and Booklets.
The Paraffine Paint Co.,
ChcilUs House, Sydney.
■
Agents Everywhere. d. S. EVANS,
Australasian Representative
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL. 8e AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
«OAD MEITAL. Se FARM WAGGONS.
IRON fle MALLEABLE CASTfNGS
SHREDDER DISCS.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
[2
STEEL TRICK
WHEELS.
aiu ivdu
TOOTH
PARTP
Gives a of Clean
Freshness to the MouthT
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
— . i -
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATPP
The Bulletin
Yol. 37.—N0. 1884.]
[Thursday, March 23, 1916,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE “GREAT WAR” BOOKS
(Postages shown in parentheses.)
Palmer’s My Year of the War. 8/6 (3d.).
Wilkinson’s The Dardanelles. Col. illus. 17/6 (5d.).
Chesterton’s The Crimes of England. 1/6 (Id.).
Soldier Songs from Anzac, by Tom Skeyhill. If- (Id.).
Ritchie’s With Botha in the Field. Ulus. 3/6 (2d.).
Can Germany Win? By an American. 1/6 (2d.).
Dommett’s Aeroplanes and Airships. Illus. 1/6 (2d.).
Russia of To-Day, by Foster Frazer. Illus. 4/6 (3d.)!
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
EsT,
MEAD
M ‘ P b ? teel MEAD SUPEKBE
‘COVENTRY FLYER
&Ss&£2JS2S?&
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST,
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YM* S -
Dunlop Tyres. Variable-Speed Gears,_«L
sfepoM
Direct from factory, Packed Carfig®
Paid to your port. Ten Days
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cat* at
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalog®
and Marvellous Offers Agents Ua’Uet.
CYCLE COMPANY, oil
(Dept. A 2S2 )> HvS»r uw
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
MON POISONOU3 POWDER. (
THE GREAT INSECT DESTKcStk7
H-
( Flies.
I Fleas.
) Bugs
S Mosquitoe*
t»w y°
PW &r>
"MUSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistaken for
or common insect powders some of which jns
under fancy names, for “MUSlUilt „
an Ingredient particularly fatal to c
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.
FREE SAMPLE. 9f)
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H Box
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepei s.
9d. per tin.
Arnold Bonnott
The, Red page
Once more the idea has shot through
Arnold Bennett’s orain like a star, that
“life is a marvellous thing”—especially in
the Five Towns. But he has made another
and more marvellous discovery: “Marriage
keeps on all the lime till you're dead.”
These two themes form the basis of Ben-
nett’s long-delayed conclusion of his trilogy,
of which Clayhanger and Hilda Lcssways
formed the first two books ; and These Twain
(Methuen, per Edwards, Dunlop, C.A.), the
rather disappointing final volume. These
Twain is evidently meant to be a study of
marriage; but the most frequent danger to
marriage, jealousy and its cause, apparently
does not enter into the lives of the dour
inhabitants of the Five Towns. Edwin
Clayhanger and Hilda are faithful to each
other. And whatever value this study of
marriage might have had for the rest of us
married people is marred by the lack of
the other typical fact in marriage—children.
Though, of course, Hilda has her child by
the bigamist, Cannon, this boy not only
forms no bond between the couple, but might,
indeed, have proved an obstacle. However,
Bennett discreetly skims over the mother-
love in Hilda, and allows .Edwin no chance
of feeling fatherly. So, as a study of the
ordinary Bennett might have
written his best book on such a subject—
These Twain cannot be accepted as evidence.
It is merely a study of Edwin Clayhanger
and Hilda married; and both the parties are
sufficiently abnormal to make their relations
merely a subject for drama.
Bennett has long ago written his best
work. Nothing he has written since The Old
Wives' Tale has equalled that definite mas-
terpiece, though Clayhanger and, in a lesser
degree, Hilda Lcssways and some of his
“Card” stories are admirable examples of
the novelist’s art. These Twain is inexcus-
ably prolix, is open to the suspicion of dul-
n<ws, and is inferior in interest to the pre-
ening volumes of the trilogy.
Arnold Bennett never had a style: the
probable reason is that he never had any
use for one. But in this novel he is inex-
cusably slipshod. Several times his use of
the phrase “etc.” to finish off a sentence
definitely jars. And Bennett’s talent for
realistic detail sometimes deteriorates into
pernicketiness. His extreme conscientious-
ness in lingering over uninteresting and
negligible details sometimes looks like men-
tal laziness. He would rather describe things
than, by a taut phrase, illuminate them.
d*
Nevertheless Bennett has written an in-
teresting book. Edwin Clayhanger’s dis-
covery that, in marrying Hilda, he had
brought into his house not a woman, but a
tripartite creature —woman, child and sibyl,
is a discovery every married man has the
privilege of making. Naturally he made the
further discovery: “The bedroom was no
longer theirs —it was hers. He picnicked in
it.” But he didn’t mind. “In fact, he rather
liked the picnic.” We all do.
Hilda had her disconcerting discoveries,
too. “Now and then she was so bewildered
by discoveries that she came to wonder why
she had married him, and why people do
marry—really! The fact was that she had
married him for the look in his eyes. It
was a sad look, and beyond that it could
not be described. Also, a little, she had
married him for his bright, untidy hair, and
for that short oblique shake of the head
which, with him, meant a greeting or an
affirmative. She had not married him for
his sentiments nor for his goodness of heart
.... He had a tendency to colds, and she
hated him whenever he had a cold.... She
did not like hiS> way of walking, which was
ungainly, nor his way of standing, which
was infirm. She preferred him to be seated.
However, the look in his eyes was para-
mount, because she was in love with him."
Makes us wonder what, precisely, made our
wives marry us. But, how do we know they
would tell us? Hilda, you know, had her
“sense of realities.”
So had Edwin. Women! “ ‘They are all
children,’ he thought as, unnoticed, he
watched them in their bright fragile frocks
and hats, and in their excessive gaiety, and
in the strange abandon of their gestures.
‘They are a foreign race encamped among us
men. Fancy women of nearly 40 giggling
with these girls as Janet and Hilda are gig-
gling!’” Mr. Ingpen, a confirmed bachelor,
with a discreet “affair,” is profoundly of the
opinion that the proper place for women is
the harem. He keeps his in a room in hl»
office. He laughs understandingly at the
notion so prevalent among women that mar-
riage ought to be the end of risks for them.
Doesn’t the husband take risks? The risk,
for instance, of finding himself tied for life to
an inefficient housekeeper? But, anyway,
when you’ve finished running risks you’re
dead, and you ought to be buried.
d*
Their married life, with its recurrent risks,
goes on. Edwin discovers the woman’s code.
“It was not that the woman had a different
code —she had no code except the code of the
utter opportunist. To live with her was like
living with a marvellous wild animal, full of
grace, of cunning, of magnificent passionate
gestures, of terrific affection and of cruelty.
She was at once indispensable and intoler-
able.” All Edwin’s life-work, all his labor
at his printing works, were for her. “It
existed, with its dirt, noise, crudity, strain
and eternal effort, so that she might exist in
her elegance, her disturbing feminity,
her restricted and deep affections, her
irrational capriciousness, and her strange,
brusque common-sense. There was no
economic justice in the arrangement. She
would come in veiled.... and she would delir
cately.... raise her veil, and her dark, pale,
vivacious face would be disclosed. ‘Here I
am !’ And the balance was even, her debt
paid ! That was how it was.” Hilda her-
self recognises that she is “just a parasite,
though an essential parasite.” Apart from
Edwin’s love for her, he possessed an interest
in life; she was a mere complement, and he
was not. And by this time she was 39.
“She had descended into marriage as into a
lotus valley.”
Hilda decides that all she needs now is to
find the right way to manage her Edwin.
She discovers that it is quite easy, when you
know how. “Her new system... .consisted
chiefly in smiles, voice-control, and other
devices to make Edwin believe in any discus-
sion that she fully appreciated his point of
view. Often ("she was startled to find) this
simulation had the unexpected result of caus-
ing her actually to appreciate his point of
view. Which was very curious.... She saw
Edwin as an instrument to be played upon,
and herself a virtuoso. In such an attitude
was necessarily a condescension. Yet this
condescension somehow did not in the least
affect her love for Edwin.”
For, as Ingpen asserts, “There’s almost no
intellectual honesty in marriage. There can’t
be. The entire affair is a series of compro-
mises, chiefly base on the part of the man.
The alternative is absolute subjection of the
woman, which is offensive.” And Edwin
sadly reflects: “Why on earth can’t Hilda
and I discuss like that?” The average Aus-
tralian husband will also wonder - why.
Surely, marriage out here is tinctured with
more frankness between man and wife?
Hilda recognises, at last, that her husband is,
in fact, the climate in which she lives. And
you can’t alter a climate. Yet she makes up
her mind to .try. And. finally in triumph,
she reflects: “It’s each for himself in mar-
riage, and I’ve got my own way.”
The reader will, doubtless, be interested in
what happened to Cannon, the bigamist, and
even in Auntie Hamps, who takes such a
dreary time to die, and over whose death-bed
and funeral Bennett so ghoulishly lingers;
but the sole theme of the book is marriage—
that is, marriage in the Five Towns.
A Letter from Conrad
Last year this page asked for the identifi-
cation of one of the characters in a story by
Joseph Conrad —according to Conrad’s fic-
tional use of him, he had been a tobacconist
in George-street North, Sydney. Several
correspondents obliged, but their testimony
did not point to the same individual. Accord-
ingly, this page addressed a request to the
novelist for further information, which, of
course, Conrad was under no obligation to
supply. The request, however, brought this
quite charming reply :—•
Why apologise! It is always a pleasure
to hear from Sydney, the town of my youth-
ful affection—-not to mention The Bulletin,
where the Torch of Letters has been kept
burning at the Antipodes for so many years.
My Frenchman without hands I knew in
December, 1878. He kept a small tobacco
shop in George-street not very far from the
Circular Quay. Both his hands were gone.
He was then 75 if a day, and didn’t look like
a man who would live long. He used to spin
long, _ Melanesian yarns, but he was not
very interesting—except for the pent-up store
of energy one was aware of in that maimed
body. For all I know he might have been the
model of all the virtues —but I doubt if his
accident then was rather recent; the stumps
were always neatly bandaged; there was no
question of any hook or mechanical Contriv-
ance. I am sure he was not M. Pierre of
your correspondents.
Apart from the physical appearance every-
thing about him in the story is “all same one
piecie lie.”
But the episode of the poet on the hearth-
rug which seems to have shocked my good
reviewer on the Red Page is a fact! I don’t
know if such things happen in Sydney. They
do happen in London though, where—as you
know—everything happens. And the office
was the office of a still rather young review.
I mustn’t tell you its name, but you know
it we11....N0, I mustn’t give away the
secrets of the editorial room where I am
allowed to drop in of an afternoon for a cup
of tea —sometimes. My love and an old
friend’s blessing to your fine boys and to the
Commonwealth passing through this fiery
baptism into the rank of a world-power, not
great yet, but bound to lead in its part of the
world the progress of worthy ideals.
Believe me very cordially yours,
JOSEPH CONRAD.
“Bartimeus.” author of Naval Occasions,
hardly reaches the brilliance of his earlier
book in A Tall Ship and Other Naval Occa-
sions (Cassell) ; but these stories of the
British Navy are delightful as mere stories,
while they convey an overwhelming impres-
sion of reality. Here the author enables
the outsider to see the Grand Fleet as it is:
this book becomes a companion volume to,
though more up-to-date than, Kipling’s A
Fleet in Being. The author, a naval offi-
cer, knows the sailor and his officer through
and through; and his characters are obvi-
ously alive. Just the sort of book that
would be welcomed in the trenches.
Military Operations in Belgium, the re-
port compiled by the Belgian Commander
in Chief (Collingridge, per George Robert-
son, C.A., Is.), is merely a military report.
The whole of the operations of the Belgian
army are detailed in precise and colorless
language. No reader would gather from this
publication that an heroic nation was being
crucified. The many maps provided are not
as useful as they might have been, since
on them the positions_of the forces are not
indicated. This book is merely the bare
bones from which history will reconstruct
a glorious epic.
Foreign Drama
Gogol's famous Russian comedy, Revizor,
has been translated under the title, The
Inspector-General (Scott). The comedy,
with the same author’s novel, Dead Souls,
now a Russian classic, was first produced in
1836. Gogol pictures the consternation
caused in a Russian country town by the
supposed arrival of a revisor—an inspector
commissioned by the Government, with un-
limited powers to inquire into the abuses of
provincial administration. And the officials
in this particular town are all scoundrels,
jobbers, bribe-takers and plunderers. Sud-
denly confronted by the prospect of expo-
sure and possible exile to Siberia, the
officials, from the town-governor to the post-
master, who opens all the letters, hastily
determine to bluff the inspector and cover
up their crimes. A young stranger is dis-
covered staying in an inn, and the officials
immediately jump to the conclusion that this
is the inspector disguised. The flurried
Governor calls on the young man, invites
him to his house, and gives him the time of
his life. The stranger is a minor clerk who
has lost all his money at cards and is
almost starving. Seeing the awe in which he
is held he immediately makes the most of
the situation. He accepts the bribes offered
to him by each of the officials in turn, makes
love to the Governor’s wife and his daughter,
and departs with a full purse. The fraud
is discovered by the postmaster, whose habit
of opening letters for once seems justified.
And as the officials are accusing each other
for their mistake, they are paralysed by the
news that the real Inspector-General has
arrived and demands th®ir attendance.
The comedy is delightful. Gogol shows
himself a master of riotous comedy that
often degenerates into ludicrous knock-aboHt
farce; and the characters are drawn with a
sure satirical touch. The play is one that
would suit a modern Australian audience.
But in realism and a sense of the theatre
the dramatists have gone a long way since
Gogol.
d*
The tendency of the modern drama to be-
come national is obvious in Australia. The
plays that please Australians, judging by the
length-of-run test, are those that are aggres-
sively Australian in character. The reason
why the many dramas imported from the
Hyphenated States fail to interest our
audiences is simply that these plays are
foreign plays. Some of the later plays are
excellent American plays: it is owing to
their suitability for a foreign audience that
they fail to appeal to an Australian one.
And as these plays grow more American,
more national, the less becomes their univer-
sal appeal. In the same way Australian
plays of the local character of On Our
Selection would not be likely to interest an
American audience.
E>ut it is in the French drama that this
national tendency has made itself most
apparent. As Clayton Hamilton says, in
his preface to Three Modern Plays from the
French (Holt, New York, $1.50), the im-
portation of French plays to the London and
the New York (we may include the Aus-
tralian) stage has been steadily decreasing.
“But this fact, instead of indicating a de-
terioration in the contemporary product,
may be accepted, rather, as an indication
that the French drama has made a definite
advance along a certain line.... As realism
has progressed in France, the drama has
become more French —more local in its
themes and in its characters —and has sacri-
ficed the breadth of cosmopolitan appeal to
gain the depth of national importance.”
Scribe’s well-made play was easy to trans-
late and transport. “A simple play of plot
is much more cosmopolitan in its appeal
than a study of national characters or local
situations.” So with Sardou. As to Bern-
stein, “his emphasis on mechanism may be
accepted as accounting for the comparative
ease with which his plays may be transported
from one country to another.” Brieux’s
acute criticisms of the social system of
his own country lose their pertinence when-
ever an attempt is made to apply them to
the social system of any other country. The
only play of his to succeed beyond the
French frontiers is Damaged Goods, which
deals with a universal problem. “In pro-
portion as realism approaches its ideal of
reality, it becomes incomprehensible to a
public that is not native and indued into
the element in which the realist is working.”
And the critic is right in saying that none of
these three modern French plays would be
a success outside France. The publication
of them is therefore the only method by
which these three examples of the modern
French playwright can reach us. A feature
toe volume is the admirable criticism of
the three dramatists, with many excerpts
from their other plays.
d*
• r. r i nc P D’Aurec, by Henri Lavadan,
is a delightful study of the French aristo-
crat. He is, to us, a snob, a spendthrift, a
useless survival of a great name; but there
1S i n rv lm an , mna te fineness of character that
puts the reader, unwillingly, on his side. As
the rich Jew says: “What are these people
good for nowadays? What do they care
art ’ literature, science? They support
nothing but horse-racing and horse-shows.
If they were able they would „ ,
everything. They are useless, vain <y *?
ous, irritable: they form a totalh ’.f « Vol '
and isolated class in the society of t ll ' ! cial
luxurious and rotten to the core®
now quietly decomposing amid 7a are
and show of their past.” 6 splead «
The Jew lends the Prince and the Ph*
cess money: he hopes to get his L,/
worth from both. But he fails The P • < ‘ s s
irritably tells his mother that, in his* 5
he can promise her only one thing : "to Eft
the life of an honest man, and when a
time comes to die like a prince.” 60 the
“War /” says his mother. “Will V m,
up your life in war?” you « lve
A friend, suavdy polite, interjects, “As
would any of us.” ’ AS
But the prince draws himself ud with
here is a certain
Yes: but on a modern battlefield he would
hardly be allowed to choose his manner of
thing* ShrapDel is such a rudft and sudden
Jules Lemaitre’s The Pardon, a comedv in
three acts, is not only a charming comedv
of the only subject that the modern French
dramatist concerns himself with adultery
but it is a triumph of theatrical’technique
Lemaitre has built a long play out of only
three characters—a young husband, his err-
ing wife, and Therfese, the mutual friend
who brings them together again, and allows
her sympathy for the husband to degenerate
into a liaison with him. liow the problem
of the eternal triangle is solved—or shelved-
must be discovered by the reader; but
throughout, the reader feels no need for any
other characters.
The Other Danger, by Maurice Donnav
naturally deals with adultery ; but after three
acts of apparent trifling, without any notice-
able progression of the plot, the appalling
denouement is sprung upon the reader. A
mother discovers that her young daughter is
in love with the man whose mistress the
mother is. It is almost the situation of
The Second Mrs. Tanqueray, though in that
drama the lover had already parted from the
mother. In The Other Danger the mother
sacrifices her happiness to give her lover in
marriage to the child.
The famous Bayeux tapestry, which re-
corded incidents of the invasion of England
by an earlier William, is neatly parodied in
Ye Berlyn Tapestrie, pictured by John Has-
sall (The Studio, London; Is.). Hassall,
with admirable humor and an absurdl.v-close
plagiarism of the style of the Bayeux t..nes-
try. depicts Wilhelm’s invasion of Flanders.
The folded booklet would make a delightful
frieze for a children’s playroom.
Even in such an important matter as
physical trainipg we have been indebted in
the past to systems taught by Germans,
Danes and Swedes, with the interesting re-
sult that these foreigners consider themselves
largely responsible for the standard physique
of the British army and navy. Lieut. C. F.
Upton now offers The British Manual of
Physical Training (Laurie; 25.). “When a
nation receives a staggering blow many years
have to be spent in recuperating national
strength and vigor, and everything that ap-
pertains to health and strength must be
encouraged or even enforced, to bring that
nation back to vigor once more System-
atic physical culture, necessary before the
war, is doubly necessary now.” Upton’s
system is not mere muscle development, and
does not depend on weights or apparatus.
Henry Fletcher : If you are out for dollars,
or even publication, you must follow other
traders and write for the market. An editor,
publisher or theatrical manager is rarely
a literary expert; but he knows, or thinks
so, what his public wants. If he tells you:
“They want something quite original," he sub-
consciously means they want the old, old
story in a new dress. The literary faculty
is rarely associated with a sense of humor.
Take leading authors and count —not more
than five per cent. The average reader has
far more luck—say 20 per cent. Such
great critical minds as Macaulay, Poe and
Emerson were joke-proof. Have doubts if
the pure Anglo-Saxon has the humor bump.
Took three years to write a script, rewriting
eight times. Best London agent: “Clever,
no hope of placing.” Asked two good New
York agents if they had MSS. of the type of
Kim, Jude the Obscure, or Some Emotions
and O' Moral by unknown writers could
they place? Reply “No!” As I count those
three the cream of British fiction, what hope
me? Yes, my dear boy, “hitch your waggon
to a star,” and —and —get left behind. In
all trades you are told: “the best work dont
pay.” It is a luxury the worker indulges
in to please himself.


ANTHONY HORDERNS' for Satisfaction in Silverware
No. 106.—Child’s Knife, Fork and Spoon, Silver
plated, Pearl handle, in handsome Silk-lined Case.. 7/0
No. 107.—Cake Forks with Server, Silver-r'ated,
the latest idea, assorted designs 12/9
No. 101.—Serve-Alls, Silver-plated .... 14/-
very new and useful Gift.
No. 108.—Fine Assortment of Cabinets of Cutlery,
Spoons and Forks, best Sheffield make, fitted for 12
persons £ll
other s £l2/10/-, £l4, £l7, £2l
£5/7/6, £5/15/-, £6/2/6, £6/17/0, £B/10/-
Consult our Illustrated Price List of ELECTROPLATED
WARE, CUTLERY and CLOCKS. Write for a copy,
post free on request; it places selections from the
immense variety we offer at the command of
everyone in Australia.
ft
%
. A
I":'
iliiiillwp
No. 41. Flower Stand (all Metal), Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, very pretty effect;
tubes take out for cleaning 40
ft-
mi
m
No. 42. Flower Stand (Dixon’s), Silver-plated, exquisite
design, with pretty, Iridescent Glass Vases 52/6
P
No. 46. — Flower Stand. Silver-plated,
charming effect, with Iridescent
Vases 45/-
No. 35.-“lnkstand. Electro Silver-plated on Britannia Metal,
engraved design 32/6
fiii!
m
so
No. 109. — Cake Forks, Silver-plated, half dozen in
beautiful Silk-lined Case, pretty design g/_
Other choice designs—
9/-, 10/-, 10/9, 11/6, 12/6
No. 112. Carvers, in handsome Velvet- and Silk-lined
Cases, best Sheffield make, Xylonite (White) 3 pieces
in case—-
11/6, 12/6, 14/-, 15/-, 17/-, 20/-, 24/-
In Stainless Steel (will not rust or stain) 21/-
StSsLiH*.
No. 111. Carvers, in handsome Velvet- and. Silk-lined
Cases, best Sheffield Steel, 3 pieces, with Stag handles—
9/-, 10/-, 11/-, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 19/6, 21/-,
22/6.
£2
■>
tm
m
mm
No. 102. —Fruit Salad Set, the latest Novelty, assorted
designs 23/-
ANTHONY HORDERN L SONS Ud
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßnelci Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


W/A
y/A
V/i
Va
Va
m
:
, ■-».
5*5
m
P5
3f
w
i?
< v
N
Hunting Rifles
There are more Winchester rifles used for
hunting than all other American makes com-
bined. That is because they are so generally
satisfactory. Experienced hunters know that
Winchester rifles can be depended upon
absolutely. Then, again, they are made in all
calibers and styles suitable for shooting any
kind of game. For a good, reliable rifle, one
that shoots strong and accurately, and gives
years of service, no rifle equals the Win-
chester. No need of hesitating as to which
make of hunting rifle to buy. Get a Win-
chester and you will never regret it. They are
THE FIRST CHOICE OF
EXPERIENCED HUNTERS
w)
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
GUN. W. W. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usuallv £lO 10'-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. IV. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GIN
—FARMER'S FRIEND —12-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 vards. PRICE 20 - Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY. 12/6
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL AR MS CO.,
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
The Booty
PEM
E
*
▲
CHEAPER THAN
llecHicity. Coal Gas. Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
> f/j
%
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott Sc Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram Sc Son [S:
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
-TnROUGHOUT-]
" tyEYKtiS&IJ
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
LIMITED,
25 O'Connell st.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act a3
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A- PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
—5C— Ml
iTERIALS and WORKMANSHIP*
JU amJT M. JL A.
PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS and WORKMANS:
Marine, Stationary and
Portable Engines
Unequalled in
See also page M.
SIMPLICITY,
ACCESSIBILITY,
RELIABILITY,
DURABILITY
and
ECONOMY.
XO Water Drip.
XO Cams, Valves or Gears to
get out of order and to repair.
XO skilled labor necessary.
Automatic Ignition.
Rims on Crude Oil, at less than
6d. per gallon.
Running Expenses less than half
of those of Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy higher than that
of any other Crude Oil Engine on the
market.
Designed for continuous hard
service.
More than 50 “Skandia” now running
in Australia and the Islands.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES and PRICES
TO-DAY I
(State Service and Hone-power Seeded.)
11
We Always
Stock these
Engines
From 4 to
600 HP.
Staticr.ary
Type.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON.
Sole Agents for Australasia & South Sea Islands,
11-17 Loftus Street, Sydney
MARINE MOTORS
Built for service.
Low fuel consumption and cost.
Will run on Kerosene or other
light oils.
All sizes from 2 to 30 li.p.
' SESD FOR OUR LARGE CATALOGUE.
American Engine Company,
504 Boston Street, DETROIT, MICH., U.S.A.
SPECIAL AGENTS.
C. D. WHITING & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
PAGE CYCLE COMPANY. Townsville, Q.
R. R. HUNT & COMPANY. Auckland, N.Z.
A
A
T
T
D
E
Cable: —
AMECO.
When you get CLEMENTS TONIC
you get Good Health too.
THE SOLDIERS’ TONIC.
A TESTIMONY TO A GREAT REMEDY.
A representative member of the cream of Australia’s manhood. Sergeant C-
Smith. 20th Battalion. A.I.F., i£.ew South Wales, who in his profession
capacity was associated editorially with one of the leading weekly >-.ydne.
journals, and who has for years been considered one of the most able
Machine Gun Experts. He has an intimate knowledge of the famous 1 letonan
invented “Caldwell” Gun. being its Australian Press Agent and also
inventor’s friend. He writes of Clements Tonic, the Great Remedy for sna -
tered nerves, as follows: —
Liverpool Camp. X.S.W.. 20 10 15.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“When I say that Clements Tonic has helped swell recruiting
figures. I am only giving credit where credit is due.
“Among the ‘cream of the nation’s manhood' which is a . ns '', erl pf
the Empire's call to-day is the usual percentage of nerve-strained ni
from the city offices, who would certainly have failed to paps
medical test had it not been for the wonderful restorative qualities
your medicine.
“From my own personal experience, and from the experience of ni>
comrades in arms. I can sincerely testify to the fact that Clements iom
has often helped to make good 'soldiers of apparently bad material a
better soldiers of good material.
“Its world-wide repute as a blood medicine, as a nerve- restorer
and as an appetite producer is founded on the solid foundation
“(Signed) SERGEANT C. SMITH.
“20th Battalion, A.I.F."
THE “NERVES AS STRONG AS STEEL’’ MEDICINE.
IT IS AS VALUABLE FOR THE RETURNED SOLDIER AS
THE RECRUIT GOING TO THE FRONT.
IT MAKES ONE HEALTHY.
~ ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT.
CLEMENTS TONIC does Good because


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cvire.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
EJr?
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick x’elief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief—every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
BE ADVISED!
DON’T RUN
RISKS!!
How many fail to regard
Colds seriously. It is one
of the commonest troubles
and at the same time most disastrous —-because
most neglected.
The Safest, Surest, Speediest and
Pleasantest method of getting rid of Coughs
and colds are
Wilson’s “Pino-Mentho'
Pastilles
A pastille dissolved in the mouth will pro-
duce immediate relief. Obtain a tin at
once from your Chemist.
The cost is only 1/-
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St., Sydney
■safety first
V
a
Sunshine Safety Lamp
300 Candle-power.
COSTS ONLY ONE-THIRD OF Id. PER
HOUR.
BEST COMBINATION TABLE-AND-lIANG-
ING LAMP IN THE WORLD.
No Chimney, No W’ick, No Smoke, No Soot,
Dirt, No Grease, No Odor, No Mantle
Trouble.
Sunshine Safety Lamps are Made in All Styles
for Indoor and Outdoor Use.
CALL or WRITE for FULL PARTICULARS.
HALLETT BROS, 14c Wynyard Lane, Sydney
One Minute from G.P.O.
Bonnindton’S
IRISh & MOSS
For Mother
i
!'!
§
s
luuui
Mothers also are liable to COUGHS,
COLDS, INFLUENZA and BRON-
CHITIS. The best family remedy is one
that ALL may take,whether young or old.
For instant relief take “ Bonnington’s
Irish Moss,” only a few doses are re-
quired. Take none but—
Avoid all
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for 1) days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
are: you
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. . Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, 41c.
The Noisiest Thing in the World
NERVE-RACKING ROOTER
,'Jt is louder than a steam organ. You cannot
hear yourself think. Handy at election
; time. Small enough for the pocket. Loud
■ enough to beat the band. Forbidden in America
because It frightened the homes.
Made fill of metal. Turn the handle and look
out for trouble. Only Nine Pence each,
, or Three for we pay carriage anywhere.
[TTlie CJlliOli Co.. Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
\
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy—
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754 —
160 years ago.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Gift.
The Persians say ’twere wrong to smell one
flower
In the gift-bunch, lest ere we give we steal
One tithe that should for the recipient be
From the bound-glory of the blossomry.
When at your feet to give my all I kneel
Into my heart I must not look too deep,
Lest for myself one pity-throb I keep.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
A Simple Song.
This is a song unaffected,
A song of the wind and sea, ;
A song of good things neglected
That are everywhere free to me;
A song of the trees that the autumn gilds,
A song of the nests that the wild bee builds,
A song of the wimpling, carefree brooks
That spy on the nymphs in their bosky
nooks;
A song of flowers that the wind has kissed,
A song of the glories of morning-mist,
A song of green hills that are calm and grave
However we mannikins misbehave ;
A song of the homely harbor-lights
That twinkle on wonderful winter nights,
A song of dawn and exultant noon,
A song of lovers under the moon,
A song of the goodness of everything—
That is the sort of song I sing.
This is a song of careful wives
Whose smile makes heaven of humdrum lives.
A song of children alive and gay,
A song of women grown old and grey,
A song of motherhood (sweet, so sweet!),
A song of the dimples on baby feet,
A song of exquisite soft kind eyes
That lure boy-lovers to paradise,
A song of kisses long-drawn and slow
That coax us back when we want to go
To the deuce and the dogs with the headlong
rout
Of asses that are not worth thinking about,
A song of the deathbeds of humble folk
Who have not faltered beneath the yoke,
A song of rebels with heads held high
Who curse all tyranny under the sky,
A song of you and a song of me
And the very fine fellows we mean to be.
A song of love and a song of pain,
Of splendid tempests and quiet rain ;
A song of patience that will not whine,
A song of starshine when night is fine,
A song of self-sacrifice brave and sweet,
Of stooping shoulders and tired feet;
A song of martyr-folk under the 50d....
So this, after all, is a song of God.
N.S.W.
ELLERSLIE GREY.
The Prophet.
No priest pours milk or honey,
Or ram’s blood on the sods;
Nor maids with flowers and garlands
Deck shrines of old dead gods.
The ancient gods are sleeping,
Deep in the Past they be,
From bright and swift Apollo
To Him of Calvary.
They’ve come from Europe, Asia,
Through lands and waters far,
But speak not to Australia,
And alien god§ they are.
They loved her not, these strangers,
That shy, wild soul of hers;
She heard, but never heeded
Their cold interpreters.
For she awaits her lover
To make her mystic choice,
.And he shall be her Prophet
And he shall be her Voice.
And he shall see the Vision,
And chant exultantly
Across the Sands of Silence
Her hymn of Destiny.
And will he, like Mohammed,
Though men may deem him mad,
Come from the Land of Sunset
Along the camel-pad?
Or will some Cattle-duffer
The Gippsland mountains saw
Come down the Snowy River
With Tables of the Law?
Or through the Western stations
. In woolsheds turbulent,
Another John, a Shearer,
' Cry out: “Repent! Repent!”
o>r in the cynic city
Among the toiling throng
Some Carpenter will shame us
And tell the tale of Wrong?
Or by the glowing Torres
Along the palm-fringed beach,
The creed of Contemplation
A sunbrowned Fisher teach?
(And we may shake with laughter
As through the land he goes,
Hurl stones, or never listen
Nor heed at all. Who knows!)
The ancient gods are sleeping,
Their oracles are m,ute;
No doves fly round their fountains,
They hear no shepherd’s flute.
Australia waits her lover
To claim him, and rejoice,
And he shall be her Prophet,
And he shall be her Voice.
VICTOBIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


/
/
vv
TTZ'.
( A
1 /
7 /
&
Manufactured
in Australia by
“PILRDRIAU”
The Premier Macintosh.
It is an absolute guarantee of security against all winter conditions be it ram,
cold or wind. ~ , ...
The materials are proofed at our Factory with pure para rubber, and will
resist tropical conditions.
Range
Letter
B
C
D
MEN'S RAGLAN.
Material Shades
TWEED, light 3 weight (Derby) ... ••• Dark
CASHMERE, medium weight ... ••• •••
CASHMERE, special quality medium weight • •• ~ l,ve
CANTON, light weight ... ... Fawn and Slate
WOMEN'S
Material
CASHHERE
INDIAN AS...
CASHMERE
RAGLAN.
Shades
... Olive
Brown, Olive, Dark Navy
... Olive
A COMPLETE RANGE OF PATTERNS SENT POST FREE.
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED WATERPROOF.
Perdriau Macintoshes and other rubber goods can be supplied through your store-
keeper or direct from the manufacturers —■
Price
35-
42-
50/-
Range
Letter
R
S
u
Price
25-
27 6
42-
The Specialty House for
Waterproof Clothing and
all Rubber Goods.
# •
Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENVER
PRICES
Single,
Double.
17 6.
22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS,which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
CAR COMPANY,
The New 1916 Model, 4-24.
AMERICA’S FINEST PRODUCTION
AT A POPULAR PRICE.
A PERFECT SPECIFICATION.
MOTOR—Four cylinder; enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets. Cylinders—Cast en bloc,
bore 3J, stroke 4J. FRAME—Channel, pressed steel. HORSE POWER— 22\ R.A.C. OILING
SYSTEM—Force feed and splash system, with sight feed on dash. POWER PLANT—Unit in
construction. COOLING SYSTEM —Thermo syphon. RADIATOR —Honeycomb; special
Pullman type. CARBURETION—SchebIer Model R. IGNITION—High-tension magneto.
TRANSMISSION —-Selective sliding type, ball bearing, three speeds forward, one reverse.
CLUTCH —-Single steel plate drive, having two wire-woven asbestos discs, between which the
steel driving plate is located. Clutch completely housed and runs in oil, and requires no adjust-
ment. AXLES —Front, solid drop-forged 1-beam ; rear full-floating. BRAKES —Internal and
external, lOin. WHEELS —Wood ; demountable rims. SPRINGS —-Front, semi-elliptic ; rear,
full cantilever. STEERING —17in. wheel, worm and sector .irreversible, special Pullman
make and design. BODY—Beautiful stream-line; five passenger; standard color, putty grey, nickel
radiator, nickel fittings. DOORS—“U” type ; concealed hinges. FENDERS —Special Pullman
type; crowned. DRIVE —Right-hand centre control, emergency brake lever forward of centre and
out of way. WHEEL BASE —114 inches. LlGHTlNG—Electric, 12 volt., storage battery, Apple
Co. dynamo, lOin. headlights, dimming attachment for street and city use, and electric tail
light. STARTING—Electric self-starter, Apple Co., most reliable and efficient. WIND
SHIELD—CIear and rain vision, ventilating, exclusive Pullman type, conforming to and built
integral with curved cowl dash. HOOD—One-man khaki hood, easy-folding, quick-acting side
curtains, carried in hood; hood fastens rigidly to wind shield. HORN—Electric Klaxon.
SPEEDOMETER—Stewart trip and season mileasre. GASOLINE TANK—Carried in cowl ;
capacity, 10 gallons. INSTRUMENT BOARD —Electric light switch; ignition switch, speed-
ometer, gasoline filler and sight-feed oiler and light on dash. REGULAR EQUIPMENT —Wind
shield, one-man top, quick-acting curtains, speedometer, electric horn, pump, jack, tyre repair
outfit and tools, tyre irons, and extra rim in the rear ; weight, fully equipped, 191 cwt. ; 4in.
tyres, “Batavia.” Genuine full-leather upholstery.
A Complete Car can be supplied in
Roadster (Single-seater) Models.
PULLMAN.—Iight-hand Drive-
French Grey -Khaki Top.
.... J
Tear off slip on this page and mail to any of the firms named below, and bv return vou
will receive “Pullman” literature.
PULLMAN CARS.
Without any obligation to me please forward copy of Illustrated Pullman Car Booklet.
Name
Address Bulletin.
Melbourne:
FINLAY BROS.,
615 Elizabeth Street.
Brisbane:
J. G. O’RYAN & Co.,
128 William Street.
New Zealand :
J. A. EEDPATH &
SON, Cashel St.,
Christchurch.
Sydney:
HUGHES BROS.,
196 Elizabeth Street.
Tasmania:
DUNCAN LOANE
The Esplanade,
West Devonport.
Adelaide:
VIVIAN LEWIS lAd.,
Gawler Plaee.
Perth:
LLOYDS LTD,,
888 Hay Street,
Perth.
TRY GRACE BROS. M
Your Easter Suit
SAC
SUIT
Two Pairs
of Trousers
Extra Trousers of Same Material.
With the Easter Season close at hand, every man will
want to look his best. I
For the Easter Season we are making a special Taiiorin
Oder of a Sac Suit (with extra Trousers of same Material), t
measure. Price, 70 At this price we claim to make a
first-class Suit —one that will give its w'earer the fullest
amount of satisfaction. .
fcC O
Quilted collar
and lapel.'
Smooth concave
shoulder. \
Collar lined and
tailored soihal ii
always hugs Ihe neck
Concave ■
shoulder •
as completed
Completed
unbreakable
froni.
PaddinQ in
shoulders &
frame uiahes
perfeci
filling.
All linings
thoroughly
° shrunk. •
Horsehair
bound 1o
preveni
tracing.
o
0) 0 D)
&
T$
-i
7T
:<JCT 2
"TO
- (0 CD
-O
a
30a
I cf
Pockei
Tailoring Built on a Solid Foundation.
Note the above Diagram, which will give you an insight into
inward workings or foundation upon which all., our (70/- oun
Extra Trousers) Coats are built. Linings shrunk, horsehair qm
and taped shoulders, and collars qnilted, exactly as shown.
All Materials Thoroughly Shrunk. Result— Permanent
Unbreakable Fronts.
The
Model
Store
GRACE BROS.
Broadway,
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper
Vol. 37.—N0. 1884.
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1916.
Price Gd.
IN THE COOKSHOP.
THE MASTER BAKER (to illustrious amateur): “I’m afraid, sir, your cake’s dough.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for the
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid,.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to lhe
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be ie-
fused. , ..
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S.- Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.- — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenelian, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
■loung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherivise: Boz., Id.; Bsoz. to lOoz., 2id. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1916.
BIG WAGES AND BIG WORK.
Australia’s five-bob-a-day soldiers were
worth their money at Gallipoli. So much
was this the case that had the Germans paid
the whole of their millions on the same scale
and with similar results, the Chancellor in
Berlin would proUibly now be congratulating
himself on the great economy which the in-
crease in pay represented. Four or live
million men acting simultaneously with the
dash and spirit of those who first landed at
Anzac might have carried the trenches of the
world with one triumphant yell. While the
higher payment of Australians cannot be
claimed as the explanation of their valor, it
is, nevertheless, intimately connected with
it; along with the bigger money go a
taller self-respect and a larger pride which
must always count for something in a
struggle where personality is more than the
deadliest machinery. To prove that the case
of the Anzacs is not singular it is only neces-
sary to look back over a page or two of
history. .T. CLesar’s privates in his legions
in Gaul were in danger of becoming million-
aires through the magnificence of the spoils
of war; and Napoleon’s veterans had large
liberty of plunder which, though irregular,
amounted to very high pay. And the fighting
qualities of both armies were far above the
Iloman or French average.
But the most striking instance of the
economy of big wages is found in the early
history of the English navy. In the days
when the last King Harry was disposing of
wives and church lands, in the intervals
between removing needless heads from super-
fluous shoulders, the wage of an English
sailor on board a king's ship was sixpence a
day—equal to about six shillings at the end
of the nineteenth century, and to Heaven
knows how much more at the present price
of beef. Out of the sixpence Jack had to
provide his own biscuit and beer. Then,
through the plunder of treasure ships and
other religious enterprises entered into in the
early part of Elizabeth’s reign, the value of
money came down with a run, and the tarry
person had his screw raised to six-and-eight-
pence a week and found. Allowing for the
fall in cash values, this was still good pay
and far above anything given for naval or
military service to-day. Then there came a
further change. John Hawkins, slaver,
high-seas robber and other disreputable
things, but the best seaman of his day, was
put in charge of the fleet. He sent Ins ships
to sea in such condition that, on the records
of the time, there was nothing like them tor
speed, safety and endurance; and he m-
creased and improved the rations of the men
until their table was something like that of a
first-class modern hotel. Next, he went to
Elizabeth herself and asked that the naval
screw should be raised to 10 shillings a week.
The Queen gasped a little, but let Hawkins
have his way ; and the way proved so good
that the higher rate did not cost the nation
an additional penny. The big sailor proved
that one man at top wages was worth two
at the lower rate, and reduced hands accord-
ingly. The efficiency of the fleet became mar-
vellous; and when it found the Armada it
showed that efficiency to the satisfaction of
all ages.
Equally strong proofs can be produced in
favor of good wages and high payment in
the. callings of peace. Indeed, the idea of
those who, for the greater part of the nine-
teenth century and a considerable period
before, exploited English and European
labor, that the nearer the worker could be
forced to the bedrock of absolute want the
better would be his return on invested capi-
tal, has been proved to be quite mad. Hunger
and the fear of hunger may make a man
desperate, but they rarely make him either
docile or industrious. Forced labor of any
kind has always proved a fraud ; and as the
man whose pay can only at most provide the
bare necessaries of life is practically a forced
laborer, the return he gives, with rare ex-
ceptions, is poor. To get the best out of him
he must be well paid, well housed, well fed
and made to feel that the thing he does in
return for his wages' is worth while. As in
the case of Hawkins’s navy, there is sound
economy in high rates of pay; and in a self-
contained and properly-constituted commu-
nity there can be no real difficulty about
establishing the wage-rate on a scale that will
enable the worker to live a wholesome life
moderately free from care and full of the
promise of better days for his children.
These things are in a general way admitted
in Australia; and Wages Board and Arbi-
tration Courts take a broad and decently
generous view of the workers’ claims. The
standard of living has been considerably
raised, and there is no reason why it should
not go higher still, unless of deliberate pur-
pose the workers of the Commonwealth
decide to go back to the older and harder
conditions.
But it is here that a serious difficulty
arises; for never did any body of men seem
so enthusiastic about committing economic
suicide as the present workers of Australia,
as represented by the noisiest of the Trade
Unions. The craftsmen of Britain and other
lands originally banded themselves together
for protection against the rapacity of employ-
ers whose narrow-sighted notion of economy
was a grinding of the faces of the poor. The
capitalist w T as rich and lived splendidly on
his exploitation of labor; the worker was
half-starved and existed in a miserable hovel.
To drag something from the capitalist and
share it among the workers was the splendid
object of the Trade Union. In the battles
that followed the wage earners were success-
ful. Their big strikes often failed, and they
suffered bitterly from their want of judg-
ment in planning attacks; but over a period
of years they always scored something and
succeeded in raising in some degree the stan-
dard of living. Trade Unionism had reached
about this point when it was transplanted
to Australia and began to grow at a marvel-
lous speed in the new soil and climate. It
captured politics; it set up Labor tribunals;
it increased wages out of sight of those for-
merly paid ; it shortened the hours of toil; it
led statesmen around on a string and ex-
hibited them as its own special manufactures.
In a woid, it did everything possible—except
adapt its outlook to the new surroundings
and shape its course by the new conditions.
The capitalistic employer, no longer master
of the situation, and barely able to maintain
a decent show of fight, was still regarded as
an inexhaustible mine of wealth from whose
accumulated treasures further and further
increases of wages might be drawn, and who
might be compelled to grant further and
further concessions without altering the
old economic basis. But as a fact,
whatever the position had been in the
past, the Australian employer was nothing
of the kind. He was simply a person
with limited capital which must be
kept moving by the use of paid labor if it
was to continue to exist at all; and by push-
ing the battle against him in an unfair
manner the banded workers were blind to the
fact that they were all the time running the
risk of destroying the whole basis of their
economic system. This was most glaringly
seen in the Trade Union attitude to the State
as an employer; for although the State repre-
sented themselves, and its administrators were
in many cases of their own selection, they
still pushed the fight in the old way without
regard to consequences and endeavored to
exact the maximum of reward for the mini-
mum of service.
This is the position that has now been
reached in the Commonwealth, and, with all
its apparent strength and its extensive organ-
isation, Trade Unionism is on its trial and
in greater danger than at any time in the
past two score years. The one thing that Aus-
tralia requires above all else is honest, effici-
ent labor to produce national wealth. If the
workers refuse to supply this, the wealth
must diminish; and tl\ere is nothing more
certain than that national poverty means a
return to lower wages and worse conditions.
The whole thing narrows itself down to the
single point that the Trade Unionism of the
future must take a leaf from the ancient
book of the Trade Guilds of London and con-
centrate its effort on securing for the nation
a big output of work of the very highest
class. High pay and bad or slack work can-
not go together for long. But if the Trade
Unions grasp the situation with real under-
standing there is no reason why the advance
in wages and improvement in conditions
should not go steadily on. The Australian
worker ought to be the best in the woild.
He has no real inclination to slack or become
inefficient; and in as far as he fails the fault
is to be traced to his false outlook upon
things. Let Labor seriously consider taking
its own name for its watchword, abide
earnestly by its own industrial agreements,
place tlie interests of the nation above its
chance to gain a minor advantage, and by
regular and lawful methods it can achieve ail
that it wants. But the nation that slows
down must go with an empty pocket and face
a bitter scarcity of bread and beef.
TO THE BOYS WHO TOOK THE
COUNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See, I'm writin ’ to Mick as a hloke to a
bloke,
To a cobber o’ mine at the Front,
An’ I’m gettin ’ full up uvJhe mullock they
poke
At the cove that is bearin’ the brunt.
Fer 'e mustn’t do this, an’ ’e shouldn't do
that,
An' 'e’s crook if 'e looks a bit shick,
An’ ’e’s gettin ’ too ujipisli, an’ don't touch 'is
'at —
But 'ere’s 'ow I puts it to Mick :
Now, it’s dicken to style if yer playin’ the
game,
If it’s marbles, or shinty, or war ;
I’ve seen ’em lob ’ome ’ere, the ’alt an’ the
lame,
That wus fine ’efty fellers before.
They wus toughs, they wus crooks, they
wus every bad thing,
But they mixed it as gennelmen should ;
So ’ere’s to the coot wiv an eye in a sling,
An’ a smile in the one that is good.
It wus playin’ the game in the oval an’
ring—
An’ playin’ fer orl it wus worth —-
That give ’em the knack uv a punch wiv a
sting,
When they fought fer the land uv their
birth.
They wus pebs, they wus narks, they wus
reel naughty boys,
But they didn’t need no second ’int;
So ’ere’s to the bloke wiv ’is swearin’ an’
noise,
An’ ’is foot in a fathom uv lint.
There w t us fellers I knoo in the soft days uv
peace,
An’ I didn’t know much to their good ;
An’ they give more ’ard graft to the over-
worked p’leece
Than a reel puflick gennelman should.
They wus lookin’ fer lash long before it wus
doo;
When it come, they wus into it, straight.
So, ’ere’s to the bloke wiv ’is shoulder shot
through
’Oo is cursin’ the days ’e’s to wait.
Ar, dicken to swank ! When it comes to a
mill
It’s the bloke wiv a punch ’oo’s yer
friend,
An’ a coarse, narsty man, wiv the moniker
Bill,
Earns the thanks uv the crowd in the
end.
(An’ when I ses “earns” I am ’opin’ no stint
Will be chalked agin us by-and-bye.)
So, ’ere’s to the boy wiv ’is arm in a splint
An’ a don’t-care-a-damn in ’is eye.
’Cos the fightin’s too far fer to give us a
grip
Of the hell full uv slaughter an’ noise.
There’s a breed that gives me the pertickiler
pip
Be the way that they forks uv the boys.
Oh, they’re coarse, an’ they’re rude, an’ it’s
awful to live
Wiv their cursin’ an’ shoutin’ an’ fuss.
Damn it! _ ’Ere’s to the bloke wiv the bad-
lookin’ chiv
That ’e poked into trouble fer us.
it’s dead agen etikit, dead agen style
Fer to swear an’ to swagger an’ skite;
But a battle ain’t won wiv a drorin’-room
smile,
An’ yeh ’ave to be rude in a fight.
An’ it’s bein’ reel rude to an enemy bloke
That’ll earn yeh that ’ero-like touch ;
So. ’ere’s to the boy wiv a curse an’ a joke
’Oo is ’oppin’ about on a crutch.
Now, the Turk is a gent, an’ we greets ’im
as such,
An’ we gives doo respect to ’is Nibs ;
But^ ’e never ’eld orf to apolergise much
When ’e slid ’is cold steel in yer ribs.
xAn’ our boys won the name that they give
’em of late
’Cos they fought like a jugful uv crooks ;
So, ’ere’s to the bloke wiv the swaggerin’
gait, '
An’ a bullet mark spoilin’ ’is looks.
So, the bloke wiv the scoff, an’ the bloke wiv
the sneer,
, x\n’ the coot wiv the sensitive soul,
E as got to saw wood, an’ jist change ’is
idear
„ Uv the stuffin’ that makes a man whole.
Fer the polish an’ gilt that’s a win wiv the
skirts
It wears thin wiv the friction uv war :
So, ’ere’s to the cove ’oo is nursin’ ’is ’urts
Wiv an oath in the set uv ’is jor.
When yeh’ve stripped a cove clean an’ get
down to the buff
Then yeh come to the meat that's the
man ;
If yeh want to find grit an’ sich similar
stuff,
, Yeh’ve to strip on a similar plan.
Fer there’s nothin’ like scrappin’ to bare a
man’s soul
If it’s Billo or Percy or Gus.
So, ’ere’s to the bloke ’oo gits round on a
pole
An’ ’owls songs goin’ ’ome on the ’bus.
Spare me days! When a bloke takes the
count in a scrap
That ’e’s fightin’ fer you an' fer me.
Is it fair that a snob ’as the nerve fer to
snout
Any swad ’cos ’is manners is free?
They’re deservin’ our thanks frum the best
to the worst— ,
An’ there’s some is reel rortv, I own-
But ’ere’s to the coot wiv the ’ane-ov o ,
thirst 6 VCT
’Oo sprags a stray toff fer a loan.
So I'm icritin ’ to Mick; an’ I' m feelin' , PP/
wet
Wiv the sorter superior nark,
'Oo tilts up 'is conk an' pits orl the bom
'Oo are out fer a hit uv a lark JS€
So J puts it to Mick, as I scs when I mart*
An' I ends wiv the solemest toast■
'Ere's to 'im (raise yer glass!) 'oo left nrifo
in our 'earts 1 e
An' 'is hones on Gallipoli coast.
VICTORIA.
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Verdun.
The German attacks on Verdun are the
result of a driving force generated in the
nation by its necessities. To regard the arch-
enemy as nearly beaten would be folly; but
to look upon him as daily being more heavily
pressed by iron circumstance is to see the
value of patience to the Allies. In spite of
all his powers of organisation, of elaborate
plans of conserving his resources, and of
undoubted ability to secure material
from outside, the wear upon the fabric of
German finance and the dislocation of
industry has been tremendous. That the
position was becoming acute had long been
obvious on paper; now it is being power-
fully suggested by the frantic effort to break
down resistance in the field. That the French
were ready to receive the attack on the end
of such a strenuous bayonet looks like a
splendid justification of Joffbe’s great qual-
ity of patience, and makes it seem probable
that the side which will last longest is the
one which, being reasonably certain of its
meals, can sit down quietly and wait for
the other to come along and be slain. If
nothing else be clear it is fairly certain
that the German cannot do this. All his
hopes rest on himself being the butcher.
And Verdun shows that in this dreadful
business the man who goes out to be the
butcher runs a fearful risk, amounting
almost to certainty, of being the butchered.
A Little Man Knocks off Work to Yell.
Thus W. M. Hughes in a coruscation after
a meal in London: —
The question of what is to be the trade policy of
Great Britain after the war is one of vital importance
to the Dominions.
Is it? Since when did it become so? Also,
Why? At no time has Australia taken more
than a detached interest in Britain’s trade
policy. At all times she has insisted upon
remaining uninfluenced by that policy, and
has determined her own upon lines which
seemed best for herself. So unless Hughes
visualises some arrangement in which Aus-
tralia’s attitude towards trade is going to
correspond with his own conception of what
the national duty is in war —“to do as we
are told” —this sudden elevation of JohN
Bull’s views into being of vital importance
to Australia would be wholly unnecessary.
But that he does entertain some such wild
notion appears a fair conclusion from his
statement that “the Empire should be run
as one concern,” and the further assurance
he gave the assembled diners that “some
indication of what the policy is to be should
be disclosed, for the future policy of the
Empire will depend largely upon that ot
Britain.” It looks as if Hughes was
sparring for wind or trying to liud excuses
for the inertness of his own Government by
clamoring that some other Government
should get a move on first. Anyhow, who
could tell Hughes what British policy is
going to be after the war? The main con-
cern of the country now is to throttle the
enemy at the gate. Experience gained in
the meantime may convert John Bull to
new rules of conduct, aud to ask him to saj
at once what he is going to do is, in the
circumstances, to put an obviously impos-
sible conundrum. What Australia wants to
know is what the policy of Hughes is going
to produce in Australia; what she wants
to see is Hughes doing the things here tha
require doing. This forms part of his jo
more directly than the delivery of missionary
speeches in London, which in the form , oy
are reaching Australia sound much more
like a wild advocacy of some nebulous
scheme of organic Imperialism than any
thing else.
♦
Dodging the Main Issue.
What tremendous efforts some of the pofl
ticians are making to dodge the straig -
issue of Protection! The man who
dow T n German goods and wants to i
everybody with a foreign name an ", a ,
same time is against increasing the Gm
tariff comes under grave suspicion ot i
cerity. To talk about creating public s
ment among a public which does not
where half the goods it buys come fro'
the poorest sort of claptrap. But J _ ,
Ward, Maoriland’s champion debt-pi ei
blizzard of finance, got off on anothei
the other day. Fie suggested that a
war all German ships should be rig' .
eluded from all British ports. Vak ._
know well enough how much good a I
tion of this sort would be likely to (o.
long as the ports of any country "
world remained open to German tra • ‘ ,
there were no general tariff to stop t n L a( je
of the foreigner coming in, the Teu o
articles would get here just the sa. • to
the other hand, with a tariff big ~
protect our own industries, there " . t 0
little likelihood of a German ship coming
our ports. Those who know most a i q
man industrial concerns sav that a
manufacturer is busy getting vea t
record dump in British countries t
the guns cool. He has speculated on t
dense stupidity of the people who w
tect themselves and is preparing - ve
big attack on our trade \ erdun.
at the end of the war without
tariff we deserve all we will get, g ue j
is doing anything about it. ► t the
to the story of the heroism of on j 0 f
Dardanelles is likely to be the
Australia to the enemy by the
politician.


Other Enemies of Ours.
The serious outbreak of infantile paralysis
oU two sides of the Tasman Sea has been
attributed by some hysterical persons to the
work of German bacteriologists; but there
Is no sort of foundation for such a theory,
while there is a very good reason why we
shouldn’t hhmbug ourselves by harboring it.
If the Htin scientist teaily wanted to smite
us with a plague, and had the opportunity
0 f doing so, there are a lot of diseases td
be found which would soon cause an under-
taking boom if they were once properly dis-
tributed. Cholera, typhus, smallpox,
leprosy and other top-rank horrors, which
would hit up the training-camps and delay
the export of Australian khaki, might be
right into the enemy’s hand; but not a
disease like infantile paralysis, which gets
in its worst work on babies below the age
of five. A good, stirring, general epidemic
of influenza, shch ,as we hftve known once
dr twice id .the last 30 years* Avould be
easier td hand round and faivtriore effective
than the lamentable thing Which has been
worrying the doctors. As matters stand, it
is pretty evident that plain, ordinary, un-
compromising dirt is the cause of the out-
break rather than the machinations of a
ghoulish Teuton chemist; and of these two
enemies —the Ilun and the “hum”—the
human affair is a mild, decent proposition
beside the festering horror and indiscrim-
inate murderousness of the other. Austra-
lians tremble in a courageous sort of way
at the thought of an invasion of their shores
by an ontside enemy, but worry too little
about the other enemy who murders their
Women and children wholesale and without
declaration of war. All round are a host
of iobai authorities whose job is mostly in
the hatbre of Scavenging and keeping things
clean, but who never really worry about the
pollution .of homes, or attempt to chase One
obscene Sy dr disease-carrying mosquito td
its disreputable haunt; If a sentinel slept
at his post and failed to give the warning
which would prevent a foe getting his battle
boot on our shores, something swift and pain-
ful would come his way ; but the men who
let the other enemies fire their miscroscopic
bombs of destruction when and where they
will are never shot or hanged. Nobody
even points them out as associates of the
Kaiser, and they address recruiting meetings
with the blood of innocent babes resting
under their honored hats, and flap flags and
lead cheers in the name of the country they
have betrayed.
Forgotten Bank Balances.
Nobody knoivs the aggregate of the
unclaimed balances lying in Australian
banks, but it is always understood to be
something considerable; and the charge of
10s. a year for keeping an account was
defended partly on the ground that it would
in course of time eat up small undrawn
residues which would otherwise remain on
the books to the end of time to be a nuisance
find a pitfall. The banks have no moral
right to this money* as the law in Victoria
has recognised; and the fitiestidti again
arises whether they should not be relieved
of the trouble of looking after it and of the
painful necessity of gradually absorbing it
by the indirect method_just mentioned. There
never was a time when the State was more
in need of funds. And there never was a
time when it could less afford to let some-
body else have money to which it had a
better right itself. Automatically intestate
estates pass now in N. S. Wales and most
other countries to the control of the public
trustee; oh the very same principle the
publih trustee is the proper person to take
chdrge df bank accdunts Which have beep
unoperated upon for, say, seven years. If
the owner subsequently presents himself the
money will be waiting for him, of course;
if it remains in the bank, as at present, it
won’t wait for him for ever, because 10s. a
year will be sliced off its tail. Here, then,
is a considerable but uncertain sum to which
the banks are not entitled yet which they
will slowly absorb if nothing is done. The
community has a far better right not only
to its use but to the ownership of it if the
original owner does not claim it. In the
present national hunt for money the proper
course to take with regard to it seems plain.
Maybe it can be done under the War Pre-
cautions Act —almost anything can be done
tinder the War Precautions Act. If it can’t,
then a very small special measure will allow
treasurer Higgs to handle before the year
is out a very fair sUm which will carry no
Interest, and mtich of which will never
require repayment.
4
Fair Rent.
The little comedy which was played in Syd-
ney around the opening of the Fair Rents
Court was in keeping with the whole idea
and object of the new departure. A poli-
tician talked his little piece and another
politician came with his little grievance;
and all was merry as a marriage bell, or
music to that effect. The idea of fixing
rents on a basis of existing land values and
present cost of building may be all right or
all wrong, though it is pretty clear that to
do even that successfully there ought to be a
Fair Land Values Court and a Fajr Build-
ing Prices Court as well; but the notion of
entirely ignoring the law of supply and
demand opens up a lot of questions that are
hard to answer. At present, owing to the
congestion of the city and the fact that some
of Cohen’s cash is still loose in the State,
there is good demand for houses, and plenty
of people can afford to pay rent on the basis
laid down by the Court. When, however,
the inevitable depression comes along, when
Cohen turns a blank face on those who
implore his charity, when the big war bill
has to be met and a run of bad seasons has
filled the primary producer’s beard with
curses, what is to be the position of landlord
and tenant? Presumably, the Court will
then review its own former decisions and
reduce rents to the extent to which land
values have fallen. But as the cost of build-
ing will not have materially altered, and as
the building is generally by far the most
expensive part of the show, the reductions
will be of such an insignificant nature that
the cases will hardly be worth bringing
before the Court. On the other hand, as the
people will not be able to pay high rents,
and as the landlord will not be absolutely
idiotic in his desire to have his house empty,
rents will be reduced automatically to meet
the changed conditions. According to the
Court decisions the landlord is entitled to
6 per cent., as that is the present bank rate
for advances to good clients; but in a period
of depression the bank rate will rise and at
the very time when, according to the Court’s
reasoning, the landlord should be entitled to
get more, he will be compelled by forces
over which the Court has no control to take
a great deal less. Is there to be no allow-
ance made for this loss when prosperity
returns? In other words, is the Fair Rents
Court only to be operative when times are
good and houses in demand, so as to keep
the landlord from maintaining a fair average
through lean and fat years alike? On the
face of it, it doesn’t look as if the landlord
could get a fair deal unless the Court can
compel the tenant to stay in a house when
he gets hard-up and continue to pay rent
out of money he hasn’t got. The landlord
may not be a particularly estimable person,
as a rule; but in the mass he is about as
reasonable as the tenant; and, whatever his
crimes, he should get a fair run for his
money. How he i,s to get this under any
system of rent-fixing it is difficult to see.
To have established a Court to which the
occasional criminal landlord could be haled
on a serious charge of demanding exorbitant
rent, failing to keep premises habitable,
or neglect to provide baths and sanitary
conveniences, might have had a good effect.
The knowledge that such a tribunal existed
with power to send him to gaol would have
compelled the really bad landlord to toe the
line or get out of the house-letting business.
But the new Fair Rents affair threatens to
live up to the vaudeville standard of its
curtain-raiser.
-♦
The Politician and the Public Service.
When he was over in Maoriland the other
day Postmaster-General Webster delivered
himself of a loud snort against appointments
in the Public Service being made by a Board,
and on returning to Australia he snorted
again. This, combined with the attitude of
the Commonwealth Government towards the
appointment of a successor to Federal Com-
missioner McLachlan, suggests that Web-
ster and his friends are getting tired of a
system which imposes obstacles to the poli-
tical disti’ibution of doles, and contemplate
a return to methods under which the Public
Service may be made to answer quite a
variety of purposes. If they have any such
ideas this paper hopes to see them hit with a
large-sized brick. It is no use Webster or any
other Minister whining about the way he is
“hampered” through not being able to make
suitable appointments. That is the easy
stuff talked by every official nepotist since
the world began. Individually it is conceiv-
able that Webster might be trusted. But
if he could be trusted to do no wrong he
could not be trusted to do right, because he
wouldn’t know how. Supervision of routine
is not his job. But the main point is that
political control of appointments and promo-
tion in the Public Service of every country,
including Australia and Maoriland, has
fflways been a curse, prolific of the grossest
injustice, favoritism and extravagance. Pub-
lic Service Boards make mistakes, no doubt,
but that is no reason for giving other indivi-
duals a chance to make greater ones and hand
around personal favors at the taxpayers’
expense. Anyhow, The Bulletin submits
that what Webster has to do is to intercept
that half-million a year the Australian Post
Office is losing down the sink—not to barrack
for giving politicians a free hand to job their
friends into billets.
—— ♦
J. C. Watson has been granted leave of
absence from his position under the Federal
Government as “organiser of land settlement
by soldiers” in order that he may be free
to take another job as member of a Royal
Commission which it is proposed shall visit
and report on the Northern Territory. This
paper is not able to express an opinion on
the work Watson has been doing for his
wage, or his fee or his allowance or whatever
h» gets for his organising, beyond remarking
that there has been mighty little to show
for it except a feather-headed report by a
committee recommending more borrowing
and a conference of Ministers at Melbourne
which Holman described as futile. What
The Bulletin is able .to say with some con-
fidence, however, is that the prevalence of
J. C. Watson as a recipient of cash from
the public purse is getting a bit wearisome,
that the appointment of another Royal
Commission on the Territory is an out-
rageous waste of money and a political
“stall,” and that J. C. Watson would be
doing greater service to Australia and inci-
dentally to the maintenance of his reputation
if he declined to have anything to do with
the superfluity.
4 .
It isn’t always a case of “Too late and too
little” with the Allies’ expeditionary enter-
prises. Sometimes it is “Too early and too
little.” The naval attempt to force the Dar-
danelles was equally premature and half-
hearted. At a greater cost of ships the
Narrows might have been forced; but then
there was no army to support the fleet, any-
how. The sole result of the failure was to
warn the Turks and prepare them for the
army when it came. And now we hear of
six Allies’ aviators flying over Ivrupps’ works
at Esssen and dropping bombs, which des-
troyed three sheds! They might at least
have waited till they could have made a
surprise attack, as this one was, with 600
aeroplanes. Given a force of 6000 warplanes
either side could obliterate the other side’s
munition factories under present conditions.
In fact, militarism and its cumbersome tac-
tics (largely dependent on treachery) will
be reduced to ridiculous ruins in the first
battle in which 6000 bomb-laden aeroplanes
are simultaneously in action. Can anything
be more quaintly absurd that the thought
of a high cockalorum military genius and
his glittering staff bending over maps and
issuing frantic orders by telephones and
aides-de-camp, whilst tons of explosive bombs
are about to be dropped on the massed forma-
tions and the doomed headquarters by squads
of sporty airmen who have only lately
emerged from civilian occupations?
♦
“Albion” : This is a sample of our war-time
economy. A certain ship was taken as a
transport, and after conveying troops to
Egypt proceeded to England with cargo
and convalescents, the medical staff consist-
ing of one doctor and two nurses. On
arrival in England the steamer was con-
verted into a hospital ship, probably as up-
to-date as any afloat, having operating
theatre, dental surgery, X-ray apparatus,
steam laundry and all the accessories of a
hospital ashore, at a cost which will pro-
bably never be known to the general public.
A full hospital-ship staff of high-salaried
Australian doctors, nurses and orderlies was
put on board to attend to practically the
same class of patient as was in the first
instance taken to England. On the long
voyage home the doctors had to work hard
at killing time with deck games, while the
nurses served morning and afternoon tea.
Every possible attention and kindness was
shown by them to the patients; but as the
majority were convalescent the doctors had
very little to do and the nurses were prac-
tically housemaids, as instead of nursing
they served the men’s meals, saw that they
were supplied with clean clothing, and so on.
Australia’s two hospital ships, in accord-
ance with the Geneva Convention, carry no
cargo or combatants. This means that after
discharging the patients they leave Australia
in ballast and can take no troops other than
A.M.C. reinforcements. They are thus run
at a dead loss. The ordinary transport can
leave loaded down to her Plimsoll mark and
full of combatants, the freight on the cargo
going a long way to pay for the running of
the vessel; and cargo is also brought back
to Australia. If there were any danger east
of the Canal or if the hospital ships were
carrying serious cases there would be noth-
ing to complain about; but as things are at
present the whole process is ridiculous from
a business point of view. But has the
Defence Department got a business point of
view ?
“Globe” : To the shipping fraternity the
weather forecast usually sent by wireless is
a long-distance joke. Australia covers a
large area, yet the one small message of
about 12 words is sent from Melbourne to
all parts of it; consequently, when rounding
the Leeuwin you may be informed that the
weather is going to burst in the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. As I write this we are nearing
Fremantle from Colombo. To-day’s message
ends: “But data wanting from W.A.” So
we're plugging along and expecting nothing.
When telegraph lines are down the data
should be sent by wireless, the same as the
forecast is when lines are in a bad state.
If the wires can’t carry the data, what in
thunder is the use of wirelessing the result-
ant forecast?
N. S. Wales Mines Minister Estell sees
that the State’s prospecting vote hasn’t
done its job, and proposes large changes.
There is a general idea that old-time owners
closed down many mines which might be
made to pay with modern machinery and
existing transport facilities; and “to put
the matter on a practical basis” wardens are
to hold public inquiries “as to which mines
appear to be worth considering as pros-
pecting ventures.” Then the selected sites
will be examined by a geologist and on a
favorable report the owners may be granted
half the cost of testing the show —machinery
included, provided the Minister can get the
prospecting vote enlarged. Estell’s “pub-
lic inquiries” won’t be much good. A better
plan would be for the Department to fix on
say the half-dozen propositions which it
reckons have the brightest chances, and make
a sporting offer of half the cost of the
resurrection if private parties will put up
the other half. Under Estell’s scheme it
is quite possible that what the Department’s
experts think the best half-dozen gambles
may be left untouched, while shows with
second- or third-rate chances absorb all the
available money. And the second- and
third-rate chances among abandoned mines
are not the sort of thing that a hard-up
State can afford to have anything to do with.
♦.
Jitst as the good ship Cold Tea looked like
sailing into Port o’ Ginger Beer with all
flags flying, it was struck amidships by an
unexpected torpedo despatched by cable.
Anti-grog advocates in Australia have been
bubbling joyfully about the success of the
closing of pubs in Britain, and of the value
of the restriction of drinking hours, and of
the anti-shouting legislation; and they lost
no opportunity to point the moral to Com-
monwealth and State Governments. Thou-
sands of citizens, while not converts to pro-
hibition, were inclined to believe largely on
these statements that it would be. well to
lessen the facilities for obtaining liquor, at
any rate during the period of the war. But
a day or two ago a report from London
Times burst upon them in this way :
The United Kingdom Alliance publishes the
national-drink expenditure for 1915, which, it is
stated, increased 10-1 per cent, over 1914. The in-
dividual expenditure was £4 Bs. lid. The Alliance
attributes the increase to the extraordinary high
war wages and the abnormal development of shout-
ing. It is pointed out that there is an unprece-
dented disturbance of normal family life resulting
from the deplorable increase of drinking amongst
women.
So apparently the restrictions imposed in
England on the Sale of the thing that sting-
eth like an adder have failed in their pur-
pose and produced, amongst other things,
“an unprecedented disturbance of normal
family life.” It’s all very perplexing—
especially to the well-intentioned people who
made England their splendid example.
♦
What a little man is not going to say when
making a speech in London : —•
Gentlemen, I ask you to turn your eyes away from
the problems here and look across the sea to that
sunny country from which I come and contemplate
the lessons older lands may learn from Youth. There
we have been having a strike every week. What of
it? Nothing! We raise wages. How do we do it?
We borrow. That is the secret. We borrow like
blazes. We borrow the savings of your poor, the
accumulations of your rich —it is the same thing—and
1 give you my personal assurance that we can spend as
much as you will lend. You are fumbling along trying
to devise means of living on your earnings. Wc have
risen superior to that and demonstrated that a nation
can also live on what it can grow—l mean, owe.
Freetrade and Protection do not concern me. The
great question is: How can we best exploit the lend-
ing resources of the world? You say there must come
a day of reckoning. Well, it has not come to us yet.
Cohen has saved us from the awful gulf of destruc-
tion—Cohen the ever-true friend of democratic pro-
gress. We are sailing on a definite course as
becomes an enterprising people unto whom has been
entrusted the destiny of an immense continent. We
are pawning it. You hold the tickets; and, for
Heaven’s sake, get some more, because there are a
lot of men falling out of employment over yonder, and
unless we borrow there will be the spectacle
mocking us of 14 Houses of Parliament strug-
gling with the awful problem of how five million
people can maintain, themselves unaided on three
million square miles of country.
—— ♦
Portugal, bound by a hundred ties of the
past to England, seized a lot of shipping
that was badly needed, and at the same time
was something of a menace owing to the
fact that units of it might at any time con-
trive to turn themselves into armed raiders.
This brought the Republic into a war in
which, if she has not much to gain, her
chances of loss are not great. A movement
to follow suit is now on foot in the bigger
Republic of Brazil. With shipping freights
at their present altitude it is just possible
that half a dozen States of the smaller sort
may enter the war in similar fashion by
making a grab at interned German vessels.
A distant Republic which counts its
revenues in shillings may find it worth
while to have war declared against it by a
great Power that cannot get near enough to
hit it; and when the curtain rings down on
the fighting all Spanish and Portuguese
America may be called to send delegates to
discuss the peace proposals. Even the
fever-stricken little States that shake on the
slopes of a volcano may find it worth while
to gain a single ship as their easily-earned
share of the spoil. The King of Tonga
early declared his neutrality; but it would
be easy to let loose the local war-whoop if
there were a German motor-launch interned
anywhere in his territorial waters. War
doesn't seem to improve the nations’ high
moral principles, somehow.
*
What a toss-up it was with the average Boer
citizen for loyalty or cutting the painter is
made still clearer in the new “Book of Bel-
.gium’s Gratitude.” The writer claims that a
Belgian legation, of which he was one, turned
the scale by a visit at the right moment
In the course of our journey across the Union, as
soon as the ice was broken between the Afrikanders
and ourselves, as soon as we were able to unmask
Ode to Von Tirpitz.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Awake ! Awake to sing.
To yowl aldud and fling
Words with a lilt and swing
Around thfe Atmosphere !
Produce the naval crown,
Wrought with beer-berries brown!
Let floods of music drown
Regret’s astonished tear!
Let every dicky-bird arise to chirp its
Best mbrning melody for old Von Tirpitz 1
(Oh, boldly did his whiskers wave—
His rolling chin-mat scorned a shave.)
Out of the limelight forth he fares,
Per medium of the dark back-stairs.
He fades away, his star grows faint and
dim ;
A’one reck one pumpkin what becomes of
him,
Oi 1 whether* tedring forth his wilding hair,
tie curses NGpftfNE or repeats a prayer.
(Oh, vaguely do his whiskers droop
Above the limpid canine soup!)
Out of the sea he rose,
Like Aphrodite,
Shaking against his foes
A whisker mighty.
He built the ships of steel,
Bulwark and prow and keel,
And at his loud apneal
The cash came flowing.
Million on million fell
At his undaunted yell;
Construction moved like hell
And fleets kept growing.
“More cash” was still his cry !
His seamen’s hopes rose high,
Believing he could buy
The boss-ship of the ocean ;
And at his toast, “The Day.”
Each rose with beer to say
He seconded the motion.
(And still his mighty whiskers grew
That wagged tremendous deeds to do!)
Wild war awoke on land and sea.
His vessels in their pride
Went to the ditch to hide.
Their naval ensigns floating free,
Far from the angry tide,
Where foemen watchful-eyed,
Begged them for months to come and be
Boiled, roasted, baked or fried !
Who bade them thus in safety ride?
Von Tirpitz, it was he!
(And still his whiskers downward rolled,
Observing that his feet were cold.)
He got the cash and built the fleet,
He kept it safe and free ;
More ships he struggled to complete,
Yet never put to sea ;
No power that navy could defeat,
No strategist such plans could beat!
Who held the reins and kept his seat?
Von Tirpitz, it was he!
(And still his whiskers lightly swayed
And met the storm-blast undismayed.)
Now from the limelight forth he fares ;
And none can tell us why
He drops his office and its cares
And travels down the dark back-stairs
With sorrow in his eye.
The German fight was hard and long;
But this must stand in prose and song
Till earth’s last fish shall fry :
Whoe’er may carry scorn or blame,
Von Tirpitz played the safest game
And played it nice and dry!
(And still his whiskers vaguely wear
A look of murder mixed with prayer.)
N.s.w,
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


! (fIPILLdRINE
moustaches
<?
Follow the Military
fashion. The Mous-
tache is popular with
Officers. Capillarine
will secure you a
perfect Moustache in
double-quick time.
Being a true Hair-
grower, it has de-
lighted hundreds.
Why not send for a Jar To-day?
PRICE 10/6—POST FRE:.
Craig: & Aitken,
664 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
UMOa y 3 A3N !> t snouiej
sBNOHdOHdvuo visumioo
POPULAR SERIES.
10-inch, 3 - (n.z., 3/6)
12-inch, 5/- (n.z., 5/6)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
&
COLUMBIA CRAPHOPHONES
HORN MODELS
Prices
from
75/- to £l5/15/-
HORNLESS
Prices
from
80/- to £45
NEW ZEALAND, £5 to £5O
CELEBRITY SERIES
from
10-inch, 5/- (nz., 56)
12-inch, 7/6 <n.z., si-)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
COLUMBIA RECORDS They Wear TWICE as Long as Any Others!
German perfidy and to nullify the infamous calumnies
which were widely spread by Teutonic agents, there
was a magnificent and sudden revulsion of public
opinion. Even at a place where at first we were re-
ceived with coolness, the outburst of opinion became
so much the more cordial and generous. How often
did we witness the anguished Boer spirit, wavering
between ideas of rebellion and loyalty ! Often after
our meetings one or other of them would, from a
trusting and simple heart, confess to us: “We are
indebted to you for having opened our eyes to the
truth ; all is indeed over for the future between us
and the barbarous traitor to his word, the butcher of
your small people, so peaceful and good. But, all
the same, the temptation was strong! Just remember
only 12 years have passed. We have not had time
to forget.”
The Belgian orators kept going for two
months traversing all the Transvaal and the
Orange River State, and when they left the
Boers were saying: “We will fight against
the savages who have made martyrs of our
Flemish brethren. We are starting for Ger-
man South-West Africa, and when that busi-
ness is finished we will come to Flanders,
please God.”
The German in His Cage with a Wild
Admiral.
It seems fairly certain now that in rushing
Verdun the German chose the wrong place
to achieve anything more useful than a large
addition to his casualty lists. It may have
been the point of the Anglo-French line
most favorable to attack. If so the result
on the sanguinary struggle thereabouts must
be as depressing to the Hun as it is encourag-
ing to the Allies, for then the meaning of
Verdun is that the Kaiser is not going to
get West—if the defence is as skilful and
resolute next time as it was lately. And
the sinister significance of this circumstance
to Berlin is that Germany, unable to
advance, is unable to win. Yet it
would be idle to expect that the German
will not try to hack his way through else-
where, for there is no evidence of shortage
of supplies of men and munitions, and con-
servation of life is not one of the considera-
tions to which he gives much weight in
planning an offensive. Meanwhile the
resignation or whatever it is of Von
Tirpitz, the Grand Admiral, coming on top
of recent happenings by land, is a cheerful
incident. The old man is variously described
as having gone mad, as being overworked
and as having had a rumpus with the
Imperial Chancellor; and as there were cir-
cumstantial yarns flying around the other
day about the fleet having left Kiel for the
outer oceans, there is probably a strong
element of truth in the allegation that the
old man with the quaint whiskers developed
a rat. What took place probably was that
when the Kaiser heard of the Dreadnoughts
being sent out to fight he yelled “Mein
Gott !” with such ferocity that all the
commanders heard him and hurried back to
the wharf in time to get Iron Crosses for
discretionary valor, while Von Tirpitz was
hauled shrieking out of his office to be
loaded with decorations and presented with
an extensive holiday. Further evidence of
the hairy Hun having gone off his head seems
to be concealed in the stories of Dutch liners
being torpedoed. This looks like Frightful-
ness in the last stage of dementia. The
Dutchman is not at war with the German,
and, unless he has been overcharging Hans
for pickled pork and cigars, has reasonable
ground for protest against being blown up.
The suggestion that the enemy is trying to
sting his neighbor into war is hardly worth
serious attention, because if the German
wanted to bring the Dutchman into the fray
he could do so by the easy process of deliver-
ing bombardment and sudden death on the
premises. Of our Australian lads there will
be news of interest next week. For the
present the padlock is on it.
South Aus. is pointing out with pride that
of its Rhodes scholars, from 1908 onwards,
all but one are in khaki—with Oxford’s con-
sent, wherever that was necessary.
Talking of the subject that is always
uppermost, old friend Peter Bowling
lately saw his fifth and youngest son follow
his four brothers along the khaki path that
leadeth to the destruction of the Hun.
The Shackleton Polar party, which left
in December, 1914, reckoned upon bringing
its moving pictures home this March; so,
though these cold excursions don’t usually
run exactly to schedule, any day now the
Aurora’s short-range wireless may be heard
whispering out of the void: “Hullo every-
body! Is the Kaiser hanged yet?”
The big cargo carrier Mutlah, w 7 hich stag-
gered into Port Jackson for repairs some
months ago, after butting head-first into
Bramble Cay, in Torres Strait, has emerged
from Mort’s Dock a new ship. About
£33,000 was spent in renewing her bottom,
and with freights on their present scale it
was money well spent. Thirty-three
thousand pounds would build a fair-sized iron
steamer, but Australians are understood to
be incapable of anything so stupendous.
Holman’s Labor Government reckons the
Australian can’t make even a dredge, and the
Manly ferry steamers are the biggest iron
boats that Mort’s works have a chance to
turn out.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty ’
Criterion “Under Fire
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
Palace “Pope Pius X. and the Vatican
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
The White City Various Shows
Town Hall “Britain Prepared” War Films
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow”
Royal “Twin Beds
King’s “The Waybacks^
Princess’s “Romeo and Juliet”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
“As You Like It,” produced with many
changes of scenery and a numerous body of
silent supers in becoming costumes, has
oftentimes been made the most pictorial of
Shakspeare’s comedies. Oscar Asclie’s treat-
ment of the case was elaborately pictur-
esque. The Courtneidge production which
George Musgrove staged was even more syl-
vanly spectacular. The final scene “on the
outskirts of the Forest,” with a convincing
trout stream winding through the distant
landscape, was a masterpiece of Hawes
Craven’s art, and Hawes Craven was the
daddy of English stage landscape painters. A
dozen changes of scene and rich profusions of
courtiers, in town and country, were not ex-
pected of the popular-priced “As You Like
It” that Marlow gave at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s last Saturday; but a charming little
show was looked for, and the audience got it.
The cuteness of Allan Wilkie as a producer
and condenser of Shakspeare for the million
is as evident in this sentimental-pastoral-
comical-conversational comedy as in the four
previous programmes. Three pretty scenes
have to serve for the whole business, and
the fact that one portion of the Forest of
Arden is doing duty for several other parts
of the district doesn’t strike anybody’s sense
of unrealism very forcibly. Indeed, by con-
fining the Forest incidents to one spot
(where civilisation is evidenced by a neat
footbridge over the margin of a vague
stream) Wilkie distracts the critic’s thoughts
from the homestead of old shepherd Corin’s
churlish boss and the cottage which the girls
have bought from young Silvius. It doesn’t
do to think of these invisible habitations
when Orlando is said to have only recently
saved his brother from a hungry lioness. Her
presence in the Forest is incompatible with
prosperous sheep-runs—unless she is merely
an accidental beast of prey, just escaped
from a menagerie. In the mysterious
“ YOU'RE THE ONE,” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Ulysses Jackson (J. Mlatt Meeker). mov-
ing-picture producer, tries to snare remit-
tance man Harry Westbrook (Tom Shelford)
into being a movie actor without salary.
circumstances of the Bard’s glowing text a
larger insight into the settlements of Arden
seems undesirable. Nevertheless the one
sylvan glade is plainly overworked when
faithful Adam falls fainting by the way and
is helped off to the wings by Orlando. For
Orlando almost immediately returns to the
same spot to demand tucker of the banished
ducal party, and then with the neat foot-
bridge close behind him, he says : thought
that all things had been savage here.” Also
there is at least one moment when the cur-
tain should fall and rise again to denote
effluxion of time. With these exceptions
the performance is as persuasive as the most
expensive that Melbourne has seen.
Miss Hunter-Watts makes an interesting,
graceful Rosalind, both in skirt and in
doublet and hose. Her method of getting
shook on Orlando, even before he has laid
the fatted wrestler low, is as soulful as her
pleading with the angry Duke. Very admir-
able is her betrayal of emotion when Orlando
sends his bloodstained hanky to apologise for
his breakage of the appointment. In her
coquettish converse with Orlando the leading
lady is sometimes too flippant and gabble-
some, and sometimes very sweet, as when
she arranges the terms of mock court-
ship. Miss Elwyn Harvey is a consist-
ently merry and bright Celia, whilst
Edward Landor plays a quiet, sententious
Touchstone, a man of humor who seems to
“YOU’RE THE ONE ,” AT SYDNEY
ADELTHI.
Sadie Jackson (Herbert Morris) makes an
effort to catch the elusive Sydney porter
(Tom Armstrong) .
take up Audrey as an odd study in human
ignorance. Walter Hunt, despite his trick
of tucking in his chin and reaching for deep
notes, is a forcible Orlando —manly, gloomy
and nothing much to look at. Had Orlando
been as beauteous as he is usually painted
Celia also would have wanted him badly, and
jealousy would have burst up the camp.
John Cosgrove is a fine, fat, untrained
wrestler in the first act, and a portly, benev-
olent, banished Duke thereafter. Also,
Faulkner and Marcus St. John each play
two parts acceptably, P. V. Scully
gets through the grateful job of Adam cred-
itably, and Miss Sidney is a whole-hearted
Audrey in some of her lines. For the rest,
there are Champney as Corin; Francis
as Oliver; Miss Tempest as a tune-
ful Amiens, and (under another name)
as the feeblest of Phoebes; and Bel-
bridge as the incidental messenger who
announces that the other Duke has met a
holy man and turned wowser. Allan
Wilkie practically stars as Jacques,
which is bad policy. He has too
much personality and distinction in this
commentative character. He throws the
Forest scenes out of balance. Though
he speaks the Seven Ages speech natu-
rally enough, the effect of his deliver-
ing it with his back against a tree
whilst the lights go low and his brothers in
exile lie flat and look away from him, as
though they were being bored to death, is a
purely theatrical effect. Jacques is admit-
tedly the privileged moralist of the picnic,
but that’s no reason why the sun should hide
its light under a bushel when he talks.
The bill for next Saturday (25th) is
“Romeo and Juliet,” with the versatile
Wilkie and Miss Hunter-Watts as the early-
married couple.
* ❖ * *
.The . “6000 ft. motion-picture interview
with his Holiness Pope Pius X. and a film
visit through the Vatican,” screened for the
first time at the Palace (Sydney) on Satur-
day night, was somewhat of a disappoint-
ment. Probably from the very nature of
the subject too much was expected, and,
unless the projection was peculiarly faulty,
it seemed that care had been taken that too
much was not given. Some of the “inter-
view” was dimmed to an exasperating degree.
On the other hand, the views of the Vatican
and of the wonders of the architecture of
historic Rome were of absorbing interest
The programme, after what used to be beer
and chocolate time, was devoted to “Ireland
f, N /^ t l o , n ’l’ depicted stirring items of
the Ould Sod s unhappy history.
* * * *
“You’re the One,”. offered at Sydney
A del pin on Saturday, is the first successful
attempt to stage an Australian revue. And
though in material and production the show
could be much improved, it was evident
trom the first-night reception that there is
a strong feeling in favor of home
theatrical goods. The plot is sliglJJLm de
is no need for it to be
gists chiefly of the hilarious adventures nf
several married couples who hnva 01
hopelessly tangled. The
principals is made in excellent style on th
assembly platform of Sydney railway st
tion, and the remainder of the first act ■'
spent in Queen’s Square and the winter 8
garden of the Hotel Australia. Then th
show adjourns to the Isle of Dreams #
Papua, and here scenic-artist R ege Robin
excels even the fine work in the earlier sets
On the island all the characters miraculously
become neighbors in Honeymoon Grove-1
Polygamy Avenue, one of the characters
calls it —and relations run wild.
The success of the revue depends n f
course, chiefly upon the comedians, and in
this department a stronger Australian flavor
might have been given the show. There is
no visible reason why a movie producer
should be represented in an Australian revue
by a cigar-chewing Silas Nasel, even though
J. Matt Meeker is an exceedingly clever “I
guess” merchant. Tom Armstrong, as Rill
Doherty, the porter, waiter and valet, has
genuine humor; and Tom Shelford, as a
remittance-man, retains the dignity de-
manded of one who holds the silken bonds
of Empire in his hands. Herbert Morris
as a Jewish widow, would do better if he
could get the loan of a less masculine voice'
and Henri Dore, the elderly stutterer who
is compelled to sing everything he wishes to
say, handles an obnoxious part with reason-
able skill. The disappointment of the first-
night was Lillianne Lore, the graceful Bel-
gian operatic singer; an unfortunate throat
trouble gripped her voice and pinned it down
to a whisper. Mabs Howarth, Ethel Walker,
Ernest Crosby and Olive Stevens and the
Manchester Quartette all did creditable
work.
* * * *
“So Long, Letty,” being in its thirteenth
week at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, the “Last
Nights” signal has been hoisted by the man-
agement, which sees Easter and the panto,
foaming over the horizon.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Sydney Criterion is still “Under Fire.”
At the Little Theatre, Sydney, next Satur-
day Frederick Ward will start a season of
modern drama with a revival of Pinero’s
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.” If the cast
is as excellent as in the Blue-Thought affair,
“The Victory,” the public will see a
famous play adequately presented.
The addition of Peter Dawson to the bill
of Sydney Tivoli at least adds artistic inter-
est to the show. Wolgast and Girlie’s
turn tends to make the onlooker’s teeth
ache, and Mildred Grover doesn’t soothe
them much. Musette still dances while she
fiddles, and Pollard juggles while he talks.
But the double performer this writer is
waiting for is the artist who will submerge
his head in a glass tub filled with water ai d
sing “The Death of Nelson” whilst drowning.
The Sans girls’ fashion-plating is an agree-
able featherweight item, and Ula, the young
Pavlova pupil, thistledowns about the stage.
But the show’s pulse is still feeble.
•{* ;j;
At Melbourne Majesty's “The Belle of
New York” will continue to fill the house
and fall away from grace in the last scene
until Friday night. On Saturday conies a
revival of “The Merry Widow,’’ with Leslie
Holland in the princely part where Iliggin-
son frisked of yore. Whilst the wheedler of
Iteg Roberts (in the nasty, stuffy summer-
house) will invariably be Florence Young,
the character of Sonia will be played on
alternate nights by Ethel Cadman and Min-
nie Love. Fortune is understood to favor
the brave, but Holland has never shown
any 7 valor deserving of luck like that.
* * * *
The long innings of “It Pays to Adver-
tise” closes at Melbourne Royal on Friday,
and then "Twin Beds” will take the floor
in the character of “a spicy side-splitter.
Perhaps the local Railways Dept, was paid
to advertise “Twin Beds” by refusing to let
the spiciest of its picture posters be dis-
played on the premises.
«H H»
“The Waybacks” continue to be at home
and in town at the King’s (Melb.R Dad
still states his district’s needs to the Mini-
ster of Lands, and life iu a Balmain back-
yard is as full of sordid incident as at first.
Also the crushed tragedian, the wandering
gussie and the ghost that failed are happen-
ing seven times a week.
# * * *
If there is any novelty in the new Follies
goods at the Tivoli's Melbourne shop, i
makes no impression on a jaded palate-
barring. perhaps, the illustrated recitative,
entitled “Sing! Belgians, Sing!” which
might easily be bathetic if Frank Greene
didn’t play his part with good accent ana
attitude. Other-wise the Follies are a rather
monotonous ringing of the changes on


H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonic.
Awarded many geld medals for purity.
•Arwyir
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
YOUR SUIT FOR EASTER.
Will you need a new suit—for Easter and the Winter? NOW is the
time to order —now, whilst we have such an excellent range of woollens
secured by early contracting. The impending shortage will be really
serious. The mills, overtaxed with military work, cannot cope with
other orders.
In our Economic Tailoring you find the true expression of STYLE, and
quality that endures. The prices are now unique for such materials.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Patterns, Self-measurement
Form and New Catalogue on
request.
ECONOMIC
tailoring-
-65- to 90/-
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters, 309 8 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Cannot, Vera Pearce, Thelma Itaye, Rego
Welch and Weems, with the Brussels Con-
cert Party less of a compensation than
before. In the first half of the bill Ben
Linn, the loud, stout Amurkan who sings
of hi's own adiposity and other matters, is
charitably described as a comedian; and
Harry De Coe, who keeps his balance on a
pyramid of tables and chairs, claims to be
the world’s most wonderful equilibrist. De
Coe is truly amazing. But he adds nothing
to the gaiety of nations, neither does he
charm the eye nor convince anyone that his
familiar type of feat was worth practising.
His negative virtue is his rapidity of action.
He does his business single-handed, without
any showman’s “guff” or waste of time.
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Meredith and Adnil in their teeth-torturing
specialty, and Baritone Peter Dawson.
At the Bijou (Melb.), the new “turns”
this week are George Dixon, an energetic
music maker, and Rozeal and Ross, who
mingle juggling with acrobatics and work
hard for a living. The other people are
repeating themselves more or less —much
more than less in the case of Victor the
illusionist, whose costume aspires to courtli-
ness, whereas his speech is nearly as crude
as his mechanical contrivances. Early and
Laight have changed their form of musical
contribution, and Hazel Morris has dis-
carded her previous rag tunes in favor of
others not less ragsome. This is Hazel’s last
week of inviting abashed strangers to come
and share her rags. She is going elsewhere
in search of victims, and with her go Leo-
nard Nelson and the ripe Californian Peach
and the Glory Girl.
The items-in-chief at Hoyt’s two Mel-
bourne houses this week are “The Second
in Command” and “The Stolen Voice.” In
the screen presentment of the drama which
the Broughs played of yore, the principal
silent figures are Francis Bushman and Mar-
guerite Snow, and in the story-without-
words there is the same old measure of
encouragement for the military person who
learned his business ere trench warfare was
the prevailing custom or Zeppelins had come
to pass. “The Stolen Voice” is an astound-
ing yarn of how a peerless tenor, through
being deprived of his warble, was saved
from the siren who loved him for his upper
register only. The other girl adored him for
himself alone, and when his top note was
restored to him she became legally entitled
to spend his enormous salary.
** * *
“Mother Goose” did such remarkably good
business at Adelaide Royal that perturbed
moralists wrote to the papers asking where
all this money for amusements comes from
in war-time. The most pleasing feature in
it to an Australian eye is Maggie Dickenson.
Her dancing is as good as ever, her singing
adequate and her acting improved beyond
recognition. Victor Kelly, Maud Fane and
the Goose are other bright items in a bright
show. Herbert Myers now has charge of
the Royal, where the Firm has begun to
show pictures; Carmen, hugely boomed, to
begin with. The Tivoli meanwhile breaks
out into the first pantomime ever seen on
its big stage, Marlow’s “Dick Whittington,”
with Carrie Moore and Dan Thomas in the
lead. Ashmead Bartlett, at the Town Hall,
is getting into his stride, and is a better
lecturer than he was a month ago, when he
began his Australian season. The King’s
has an ill-assorted programme for the
moment, a lot of clever people who all rely
on music or dance having for a foil only the
stilt-walking Nelsons. Paul Stanhope, a
jolly little comedian of the old-fashioned
knockabout-irishman type, is nearing the
end of his long “revue” season; his
male quartette sing like four cock-
angels. Dandies and Ideals are both
strengthening their programmes for the
end of the summer season, and at the regular
picture-houses the strongest thing in sight
is the railway-smash of “The Juggernaut” at
West’s.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Beatrice Day, who declares that she has
said good-bye to the stage for ever, has
settled in Wellington (M.L.), where all the
winds of the world blow. Perhaps she chose
the place because it reminded her of press-
agents.
“The Whale”: Tom Knight Aston, just
dead at Fitzroy, was among the last of the
comic opera stars of the late ’7o’s and early
80’s. The only one left now is Henry
Bracy. Knight Aston’s real name was
Thomas Knight White; “Aston” was taken
from Aston Park. He was once married to
Mrs. Gordon Baillie, who dropped into fame
through the Crofters’ agitation. His pre-
sent widow was formerly Miss Maggie John-
stone, one of the original officers in Mus-
grove’s “Tambour Major” show of ’Bl. I
first saw Aston in “Olivette,” with Florence
St. John, at the Strand Theatre in ’79 or
thereabouts. He played in that show for
12 months and then had to come out to
Australia on account of his health. Rheu-
matic gout really spoilt his career.
“Ami”: The late Ted Farley came to
Victoria without much idea of singing, and
first broke into notice at a rum ramshackle
place attached to Sharp’s Old Ship Inn, at
Sandridge. People said he was above that
sort of thing, and pushed him on the right
track in Lyster’s chorus. He was soon a
principal. His acting then was crude, but
his voice was superb. When Lyster began
opera bouffe with “The Grand Duchess” the
difficulty was for a General Bourn. Farley,
thrust into the part, quite astounded us all
with his make-up and rich comic acting. He
was the star of the piece. In this and Mour-
zouk (“Girofld-Girofla”) other performers
could only imitate him. A singularly mod-
est, kindly, generous man. the best fellow
on the stage, with a lofty ideal in regard to
“THE BELLE OF NEW YORK,’ AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Arthur Lissant as
Kenneth Mugg.
Ichabod Bronson.
the artist as a citizen. Going to Europe, he
sang throughout Britain and America in the
lead with the Soldene Company, and when
he returned to Australia his improvement
was immense. I suppose his voice lasted
as well as could reasonably be expected, yet
he had only its rags to gather for “Djin
Djin.”
The tent days of Wirths’ Circus are over
in Sydney. This year, at its usual Easter
visit, the big show will be enclosed in the
brick hippodrome specially built for it on the
site of the old Paddy’s Market, near the
*Central railway station. It is the only
building of its kind in the Commonwealth.
Reginald Wykeham, for long associated
with Hugh J. Ward’s and Grace Palotta’s
successes in comedy, goes into camp on
April 4.
Exit, at 31, William Samuell, the Quin-
lan opera baritone. Typhoid fever killed
him in London. Quinlan picked him up just
after his student days, tried him in “Tales
of Hoffmann,” and brought him to Australia
four years ago, when he made his start in
“Tannhauser.” His Rigoletto pleased best,
but everything he did was in good style, from
the bad-tempered Alberich to the Parisian
Marcel in “La Boheme.” During the second
Quinlan season his voice sounded as if he
was being worked too hard, but he was
said to be singing well in the Beecham sea-
son at the London Shaftesbury last year.
“The Cracked Tenor” : W. J. Samuell, the
young Welsh baritone who came to Australia
twice with the Quinlan Opera Company, and
succumbed to typhoid in London last month,
began life as a carpenter, and won a heap
of prizes for singing at local competitions in
Wales before he took on the business seri-
ously at the Royal Academy of Music.
“8.X.”: Tom Graves, who died not long
since in Chicago, was the little man whom
the Clarke-Meynell firm brought out to Aus-
tralia five years ago to play the Edmund
Payne comedy role of Nat Siddons in “The
Gay Gordons.” It was in Chicago he
learned his business. He put in eight years
there, and then did a good deal of work in
London and played also in various Conti-
nental cities. Graves, who did not stay long-
in Australia, had a fund of quiet humor, and
made a hit in the first act of “The Gay
Gordons” as the brandy-sodden, dilapidated
barn-stormer in the amusing show scene. He
was a brother of George Graves, the Drury-
lane comedian. Three members of “The
Gay Gordons” cast at the Sydney Criterion
are dead —Florence Imeson, Frank Lincoln
and now Tom Graves.
“Avon” : I came away from Allan Wilkie’s
Malvolio with a conviction that it was a
real man. llow I rejoiced when pitying
Olivia invested him again with his chain of
office, and he stalked out as proudly as
.ever! What a strangely powerful effect
there is in that new Malvolio music ! Never
before was my sorrow for Malvolio cured as
it ought to be. I would call Wilkie a great
actor if I thought he invented this aspect.
Certainly in other things he has profited by
Irving most especially.
“Growler”: If I were appointed vaudeville
censor to-morrow I’d spend a happy week
making an end of the following specialists
Sunday.—The man who builds a pyramid and
perches on the roof of it, thereby threatening the
life of the orchestra without ever really killing it.
Monday.—All strong men. They are too solemn
and conceited and their jobs could be better done
by machinery.
Tuesday.—lmported white comedians from the U.S.
who make a living by imitating the savage manner-
isms of the negro.
Wednesday.—Jugglers who can’t juggle and cover
up with cheeky patter.
Thursday.—Lightning-sketch artists who can’t
sketch and have never been struck by lightning.
Friday.—The female performer who, in return for
some mild applause for alleged humor, comes back
and sings something about baby's grave.
Saturday (half-day).—Performers who stepdance
while sawing at a violin. The only allowable double-
turner is the flute-player who simultaneously gives a
beer-drinking exhibition.
Stanley Hollow, Evelyn Snodgrass and
Alfred Wheeler, all in the Anglican-vicar
business at Geelong, had quite a nasty shock
the other day; and as a result they met at
Parson Wheeler’s snuggery to make a few
earnest exclamations over a cup of tea. What
caused the trouble was that some kindly soul
had taken certain Protestant orphans to see
the movies one Sabbath evening after
church, and the vicars grimly decided that
Rural Dean Wheeler should write at once
to the orphanage committee about the mat-
ter. Poor little devils! How dare they be
orphans and want to go to pictures on the
Day of Extra Gloom? Thank Heaven there
still are vicars to keep them in their proper
place !
“Penelope Ivnubblyknees”: According to
Popular Mechanics, movie-plots are now
made by machinery ; and my dark suspicion
as to their origin is confirmed. A U.S. in-
ventor has contrived an “idea box” which
neatly does the trick. This is a box fitted
with half a dozen spindles, on each of which
a roll of paper carrying a long printed list
of words is wound. In the cover of the box
are six slots, through which one word on
each roll may be read. About 1200 words
are listed. These are classified into six sepa-
rate groups, one for each spindle, such as
nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc. By turning
any one of the spindles different word's
appear one after the other in the slots. Each
spindle is turned in order until words which
make sense from top to bottom are grouped.
Thus: “Eccentric-Spinster-Adopts-Burglar-
Excitement-Marriage.” Such a suggestion
forms the basis of a scenario. My first
effort with the “idea box” was a brilliant
success: “Wildwest-Hero-Maddens-Audience-
Damn-Cowboys.”
Edna May, now the consort of a copper
king, agreed to help with the making of a
flicker drama the other day in England. She
received £20,000 for her effort, and, as hubby
already has more cash than he knows what
to do with, she handed the filth to the Red
Cross Fund. The one experience of acting
before the camera will satisfy her for life,
she says. For one thing the strong arc-
lights badly affected her weak eyes, and the
interminable waiting about in the hot flicker
studio was unutterably dreary to the hand-
some, rich lady who didn’t need the money.
If she had been the old Edna, with no copper
king and the world before her, the interview
would of course have been a rhapsody about
the interest and fascination of movie-making.
“Broad Arrow”: From the scanty and
more or less unreliable evidence they have so
far obtained the Melbourne detectives opine
that the more responsible of the two persons
concerned in the murder of a chauffeur on
the Bulleen-road, near Heidelberg, is a man
who stood his trial for another murder some
years ago. As in this case, the murder was
committed to escape detection and punish-
ment for another crime, and in both instances
the evidence to connect the operator with the
job is lacking. Quite a number of Victorian
murders still remain mysteries for the same
reason; but if the Government were to offer
an accomplice a good reward and a free
pardon—well, a naturally talkative tongue
might be loosened. As it is, the inducement
to give the hangman some practice is in-
sufficient.
“P.X.” : Cruel cable, printed with no head-
ings to speak of, received one day this week :
London, Sunday.—The Ministry of Munitions has
agreed to allow the Sulphide Corporation to retain
half the excess profits from its spelter works. The
Corporation has decided to double its works at
Seaton Carew (Durham), and it is understood that
other English spelter-makers are doing similarly.
This was arranged without Mr. Hughes’s intervention.
Thus far there is no proof that Prime Minis-
ter Hughes has done a single thing in Eng-
land. But a quiet man named C. F.
Courtney, who couldn’t make any of
the speeches that get the big head-
lines in the papers, went off to Eng-
land via America just about the same
time as Hughes; and, though the papers
didn’t even mention that he had gone, he
has apparently done something big. Courtney
is general manager of the Sulphide Corpora-
tion, which struggled hard to establish zinc
works at Newcastle (N.S.W.) before it gave
up the attempt and transferred its efforts
to Durham. Ex-Gov. Kintore is chairman
of the co., and Jack Moulden, a former
Adelaide School of Mines boy, is manager of
the Seaton Carew works.
“E.D.” : Westralian goldfields are in a con-
tinual state of turmoil over the woodcutters
who supply fuel to the mines. At the com-
mencement of the year the whole lot downed
axes, with the result that, with one excep-
tion, every property on Golden Mile was
shut down. This little difficulty was no
sooner overcome than the axemen at Leonora
took a rest and demanded more pay before
restarting. They are still resting. Meantime a
section of Kalgoorlie cutters got the sulks
because a storeman was alleged to have been
cheeky to them. When they were persuaded
to resume business down sat another section
because the company’s officials refused to
collect union fees. N. S. Wales’s talk
that its coalminers are the champion strikers
doesn’t impress us while Kalgoorlie’s wood-
cutters are handy.
Major Smeaton, M.P., who has been
appointed Chief Censor at Adelaide, has.
been head censor of the “mail” branch there
since the outbreak of the war. He is one
of the intellectuals of the S. Aus. Assembly
and chairman of the commission which is
inquiring into the public reserves and rail-
ways. Smeaton, an Andersonian Eniversity
man, was for three years under the distin-
guished architect, “Greek” Thomson, of the
School of Arts in his native Glasgow. The
pupil, an architect by profession, is almost
as versatile and quite as industrious as the
preceptor.
Mrs. Elizabeth Wicks, who died at Ryde
(N.S.W.) last week, aged 94, was a link
between Governors Macquarie and Strick-
land. She was born on November 24, IS2I,
and lived on the Parramatta all her long
life. Her father was William Small, of
Kissing Point, and he also was born on the
banks of the historic river in December,
1796. William was one of the first fruit-
growers in Australia; he was son of John
Small, who came in the first fleet and was
sergeant of Governor Phillip’s bodyguard.
Mrs. Oakes, of Parramatta, said to be the
first white girl born in Australia, who died
at 93, was a daughter of the sergeant’s ; she
married Francis Oakes, a missionary to
Tahiti, who became Chief Constable at
Parramatta.
WHY SHAKSPEARE DOES NOT PAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A London reviewer concludes that the reason for
Shakspeare not having become in any large sense a
national institution in England is that so very
little is known about him personally.-—B. 9/Sj' Id.
Of Shaw I’ve heard, and Barrie too —
Didn’t one give us a Revue?
And Sims, and “Joseph” Parker, who
Can stage a pageant!
But Shakspeare? Shakspeare? Bless my eyes,
Why don’t the beggar advertise?
He needs some bloke to put him wise—
A good press agent 1
If he can write things to amuse,
As some coves say, he’ll come to cues
And tell us so in “interviews,”
And who will doubt him ?
Ilis fam’ly, where he lives, a lot
About the dogs and cats he's got.
That’s friendly; and he’ll draw by what
We know about him!
VICTORIA.
BILL BILE.


THE “D.J.” LEATHER SUIT CASE
“M ade by David
Jones” to withstand
rough handling on
business or holiday
travels. It is made of
well-tanned cowhide,
highly polished, and
strongly sewn on a
sturdy, light steel
frame, fitted with a
neat handle, and two
lever spring locks (as
illustrated). Two
straps and buckles are
also fitted inside.
LIGHT
COMPACT
DURABLE.
Sizes.
20 x 134 x 64 inches Price
22 x 144 x 64 „ ,•
24 x 144 x 64
26 x 144 x 64 „ »
296
33/-
36/6
38/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD., Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY
HOW TO RUB OFF FAT.
CIRCULAR MOTION NECESSARY.
An excess of fatty tissues on hips or abdo-
men not only prevents one from looking well
or feeling comfortable, but it is likely to keep
increasing until all the youthful beauty of
the figure is gone. A very simple yet won-
derfully effective means for quickly and per-
manently reducing this superfluous flesh
consists in applying night and morning, rub-
bing with a circular movement, a harmless
herb mixture composed of one dram of
quassia chips and three ounces of cirola-
oark extract, which you can get at small
>ost from any good chemist. Put the
quassia chips in a pan and pour over them
a teacupful of boiling water; in about half
a minute strain through a cloth and add the
cirola-bark extract, when it is ready for
use. This recipe is also very valuabie for
reducing double chin, puffy neck. arms,
hands, etc. The fat shrinks away rapidly
leaving no wrinkles or flabbiness.
CAUTION.—Be sure and apply on both
hips or both arms, for a difference in one of
them would soon he noticeable if the lotion
were only used on one side. — Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel.
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Ho e
now complete in every detai , a >
under the management of
Usher, the Comforts of a
Home are assured. The c ‘ u
and Service will compare a'
ably with any Hotel in Eng ‘ ’
America or the Continent.
I)e Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J- USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
“D.F.”: The ehild-like confidence of the
official mind is amazing. The other day
I took a ticket for a sea trip from Melbourne
to Sydney, and was asked by the booking-
clerk whether I had any German or Aus-
trian blood (he didn’t mention Turk or
Bulgarian) about me. He explained, when
I asked what business it was of his, that he
wasn’t personally interested, but that the
official order was that he must put that ques-
tion to every passenger booking. I suppose
the idea is that if I had been a German spy
I would have stated the fact and produced
my badge. Even if a German or Austrian
spy were like George Washington and could
not tell a lie, he could avoid trouble by going
by train, for no questions are asked there.
* * * *
A protest from 12 soldiers in the firing-
line •—•
They tell us here when we can’t get our home
letters that the mails from Australia are mountains
high and that it is impossible to deal with them all
at once. Then, as likely as not, we are handed a
sugary communication from a total holy stranger
which begins “To Our Dear Boys” and goes on to
warn us against strong drink. We are informed that
war is cruel, that we should be prepared to meet
our God by reading verses 24 to 26 daily, and much
more to the same effect. Now if the stay-at-home
churchwarden would only refrain from this sort of
thing we might get some of the letters that reconcile
us to our exile. Would you oblige us and several
thousand mates by passing the word down the line?
FATHER SAYS.
“How do you like my new dress, Daddy?”
“Anything to go on under it?”
“No!”
“Anything to go on over it?”
“No!!”
“Well, then, go upstairs and put on your
pyjamas.”
A Melbourne suburban dentist bad a
stroke of luck last week. A strange young
woman came to his surgery to get rid of
an aching tooth, and whilst he was prepar-
ing a local anaesthetic for her gum the
patient collapsed and died. Luckily for
him the girl didn’t wait to collapse under
the influence of his anaesthetic. But what a
warning to dentists is the case of the girl
who positively died before the needle went
in! She was only one among hundreds of
persons who nearly give up the ghost by
the time they get to the surgery and are
practically prepared to slip into eternity
from the operating chair. The example of
the soldier who survives the loss of two
legs and a piece of his head is wasted on
these people. The thought of having a tooth
drawn is the limit of their conception of
horror, and the sight of the dentist with his
forceps simply “does them in,’’ so to speak.
According to what they told the Sydney
Coroner last week, two John Hops in the
Ma capital are poison-proof. Isaac Bain, on
whom the Coroner sat, was on week-days a
confectioner; but on Sundays he used to give
the rein to his philanthropic instincts, and
relieved the aching Sabbath thirst of Sydney
citizens by providing bottled beer in Moore
Park. The State, in the person of Constable
Laney, interfered once more with Private
Enterprise, and collared Bain and a brother
philanthropist who was “abetting” him. On
the road to the station, Isaac was observed
to put his hand in his pocket and then
suck his fingers, and being asked by the
inquisitive John “what he was sucking at,”
he replied “Lollies !” A tin with some white
substance that looked like lolly was found
on him, and the arresting Hop ate a piece of
it —“a piece about half an inch long”—but
finding it had a bitter taste decided it was not
worth commandeering. Sergeant Woods, at
the charge desk, also tasted the “lolly,” but
was not attracted by it, so the confectioner-
philanthropist was allowed to keep it in
his pocket to comfort him in his cell. But
Isaac at once entered an effective notice of
appeal to the Judge of a higher court, for,
according to his cell-mate, without? making
any fuss he broke off a piece of the “lolly”
and swallowed it. Some minutes later his
convulsions attracted attention, and he was
taken to Sydney Hospital, where he
promptly died. The Government medical
officer told the Coroner that the alleged
“lolly” was cyanide—“a deadly poison, of
which two or three grains were sufficient to
kill an average man.” Evidently the two
Hops were above the average, for they both
lived to give evidence at the inquest.
“Suicide” was all the startled Coroner could
say.
* * * *
Claire Romaine, a London music-hall
jewel, has associated her name with a leading
case in law. She is the first to plead fear
of being torpedoed by an enemy submarine
as a lawful excuse for
the non-fulfilment of a
contract. Foster’s Agency
sued her in a London
court for £2O commission,
alleged to be due on an
Australian agreement.
The jewel’s defence was
that she had requested the
proprietors of the halls
concerned to postpone the
engagement, as there was
a serious risk of her being
torpedoed by a German
submarine if she were to
voyage to Australia under
present conditions. Her
counsel argued that this
was a just and reasonable
ground for the non-fulfil-
ment of the contract, and
Judge Parry agreed, hold-
ing that the lady was
truly and honestly afraid
of travelling to Australia
just now, and that she
was justified in refusing
to endanger her life. He
had no doubt she would
loyally fulfil the contract
and pay the commission
when peace was restored.
By the way, the Judge
Parry who gave this de-
cision is a bit of a play-
wright. His most suc-
cessful piece thus far is
“What the Butler Saw.” Whatever it was,
if he knew his job, he wouldn’t tell.
* * * *
“Sheila” : The well-meaning slie-ass is still
white-feathering at random and proving the
beauties of our voluntary system. A re-
turned soldier who had been shrapnelled in
the nose (a fairly-obvious injury) was wait-
ing for a tram the other night when a strange
female drew his attention to a passing picket
and remarked viciously, “That’s where you
ought to be!” Either she didn’t look at the
warrior’s nose or else she thought he had
got it clawed while poking it into other
people’s business.
HUH-HO!
“What is that noise I hear, Miss Bloomer ?”
“Only Papa unchaining the dog for the night.”
When the war began Germany was going
to beat the English with the English
stomach. Germany, being a nation of gross
feeders, knew the horror of missing a meal,
and thought it would be able to finish the
chief enemy by torpedoing the food-ships
one after another. The idea didn’t work,
because Germany hadn’t got the British
Navy to do it with. Now England has
tightened up the blockade as much as the
international lawyers will allow, and the
British submarines in the Baltic are inter-
fering seriously with the Germans’ dining-
room. So the German Government has been
issuing pettish proclamations regarding the
sin of chattering about butter. All the
systematically overfed housewives, it seems,
ignore the glorious slaughter of the armies
and wail only about the terrible scarcity
of cow-grease. So it looks as if the tables
were turned and England had a good chance
of beating the Germans with the German
stomach. Probably the Brandenburgers
were urged on to the carnage at Verdun
with glozing lies about the immense amount
of butter that was stored there.
* * * *
London Times accuses the Austrians of
having dropped deadly-microbed sweets from
aeroplanes flying over Italian towns. A few
more revelations of this sort will force one
to the conclusion that the Austrian resem-
bles the Hun even as the alligator is like
unto the crocodile. The nation that pro-
duces manufacturers and distributors of dis-
ease-germed lollies, and whose military
authorities sanction attempts to exterminate
communities of non-combatants by infecting
,the kiddies in the first place, can write itself
down a dirty-dog nation, anyhow. Not that
there ever was much question as to the aver-
age quality of civilisation thereabouts. Any
time during the last 25 years bloodcurdling
stories have been told of rural life in Hun-
gary and Austria. For instance, the story
of the gipsy lady who went from village to
village selling a husband-killing powder to
the local matrons. She firstly assured each
matron that a No. 2 husband was in store
for her,'and then sold her the Rough on
Husbands powder which would remove No. 1
from her path. The Austrian authorities
noted a phenomenal mortality among hus-
bands in these towns, and on inquiry they
learned the cause of the epidemic from
a newly-married wife who had refused the
chance to widow herself.
“Ironworker”: This is dinkum and the
unholy limit. One of the hands got leave the
other day to go off the job and enlist. He left
about 10 a.m., and after a long wait to be
examined was ordered into camp at an early
date. When he got back to work it was
about 4 p.m., and he put in an hour’s toil.
As he had decided it should be his last day
in the place he then asked for and was
given his wages. But lie had been docked
for the time he was away offering his life
for the defence of the nation.
OFTEN THE WAY.
“Well, Freddy has proposed! I knew he
would.”
“But you said you thought he had no inten-
tion of proposing.”
“Well, he didn't have.”
Of all places in the world, Victorias
bucolic Western District is now attempting
to do a bit of shell-making. A plant
been installed in a new stone-built fac 01}
at the John Alderdice works, which is
old-established concern with a solid rep
tion ; and the district’s sheep-merchants
money-barons stand behind the venture, '
their purses more than half-way open.
IN HELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grills were crowded —hideous
With blackened souls and blasphemous;
And Satan’s sleep was much disturbed,
The off-shift’s slumbers were perturbed.
Eternally from that mad room,
Where was no dawn, where was no gloom,
There rose the endless cry of doom:
“For Herr Gott’s sake, made room, make room!”
N.s.w.
THE SNAKE.


FIAT
CARS for ECONOMY
and RELIABILITY.
This Graceful 4-Seater Touring
Car completely equipped for
the road ; 5 Sankey Wheels ;
Oiie=man Hood ; All Tools.
£575
garratts ltd.
ALICE McNEIL, Gen. Manager.
173-175 Elizabeth Street,
148-150 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY
m
■Jii
:
■ •:
V..-
g&jSMESBv
'
JraK* ,5^
n
•.
■- ■; :
SWSSfSg /
SKIUI
m 3
sffiftß&PpEa
• > - J
nariss£pp!
’ - v -•
i Sfi
ffjpf
rSvffsc.jSsS
£££££
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “P.G.” (perfectly gas-
light) CARTRIDGE —the highest
class imported into Australasia. It is a
superb cartridge for match shooting, being
used by the best shots. The specially-deep
brass head ensures perfect ejection. 2J
inches long.
Always specify KYNOCH “P.G.”
when you want the very best.
All British
Manufacture.
2]
“V.G.”: So McKenna, Chancellor of the
Exchequer, has “given up his private motor-
car for purposes of practical economy.” I
don’t know how the news leaked out to the
press, but probably Mr. McKenna does.
Brave Reginald ! He will now have to take
a common taxi (bang goes eightpence!) from
his home in Smith-street, Westminster, to
the three-minutes distant House of Com-
mons or to the five-minutes-distant Treasury.
There is no knowing: he may even elect
to stump it there and back. Yet, as McKenna
is a lawyer by profession, I can't believe he
“gave” up his private car. He may have
sold it cheap —and given the proceeds to a
wounded Montenegrin. But the cable doesn’t
say that! And I don’t expect to hear it
say that he has given up his 15000 per year.
That would be “practical patriotism.” But
when a man sacks his chauffeur you need
to know what he is doing with the money
before you can tell whether he is a practical
patriot or merely an oily humbug.
Waxcelleney Madden, of Melbourne, has
at last made a wise remark concerning the
war. In accepting the. presidency of the
Yocalists’ Society he said :
It is an obvious injustice that, while the rest of
the community is expected to contribute what they
can afford to the national necessities, the vocalists
have been asked, in effect, to give all.
This was apropos the statement from Eng-
land that Queen Mary has refused to attend
any function where the incidental music
was not going to be paid for. During the
first 18 months of the war the professional
concert platform was a mere promenade for
unpaid workers, many of whom wanted
money as badly as the patriotic funds they
were singing for. Theatre mummers of all
sorts have drawn their salaries as usual;
the vocalists who work for fees and get just
as hungry have not been able to find
“engagements” worth a bean.
* * * *
Some imp had whispered into the lieu-
tenant’s ear that, contrary to regulations,
there was an “automatic” in his lot which
was just leaving for the Front. At
parade next morning he broached the sub-
ject. “Now, who’s got it?” he said. Hand
it over.” Of course nobody owned up.
“Then I’m sorry—we must have a kit inspec-
tion.” In one there was a parcel wffiich
looked like the thing. And it was the
thing. The man, one whom the sub.
wouldn’t have suspected of such an offence,
started to make an explanation. But
there was no listening to explanations—it
was a bad breach of orders, and the auto,
was commandeered and sent on to the proper
quarter. That night, at mess, the sub.,
conscious of duty well done, asked what
the of a joke was that they were all
hiughing at. “Oh, nothing, nothing—except
that your fellows bought an automatic to
give you before you left, and you collared it
from ’em and sent it on to the 0.C.”
NO COMPARISON.
THE BUSS: “Want a week off for your
honeymoon, do yer? When I married
my wife I didn’t want no week off!”
GLERK (striving hard): “But you see, sir,
your wife and mine's very different.”
(And he could never understand why
the holiday wasn’t granted.)
A SPARTAN.
“What do you say to a drink, old man?”
“Well, I don’t mind if I do —I am a trifle thirsty.”
“Great Scott, you don’t mean to say you’ve let it go as far as that!”
“Billy Khaki”: She was a thin, tight-
lipped, old-maidenly person, and had been
seen drifting about our camp, as if struggling
to screw her courage to some tremendous
purpose. It was McDougall went to her
assistance. “Are ye wantin’ anything,
ma’am?” said he. “Oh yes,” she fluttered.
“Is it in this camp all the Scotchmen are I
was reading about?” “We are somethin’ in
the nature o’ a gatherin’ o’ the clans,” replied
McDougall. The lady took a small,
covered packet from her reticule. “For the
Scotchmen,” she said. “Mind, only for the
Scotchmen.” Then she went her way, much
relieved. McDougall opened the packet. It
contained one small flask of whisky.
A Melbourne doctor suggests a new point
in the discussion on the proposed free clinics
in N. S. Wales. Mostly the Sydney doctor
sees nothing but the claw of Socialism, drip-
ping with the blood
of the profession, in
the proposal to en-
gage doctors to
attend to the health
of school youngsters.
The Melbourne man,
however, thinks that
the new scheme will
knock out a horde of
ill-trained, unskilled
non - unionists —t h e
“consulting chemist,”
the money-sucking
herbalist, the Chinese
“doctor,” the “faith
healer” and all the
rest of them who
thrive at the expense
of the legitimate
practitioner. Since
hundreds of children
receive treatment
from these quacks
and inefficients, it
follows that free
school - treatment
must bring at least
one considerable ad-
vantage to the legiti-
mate profession by
discour aging the
quack and educating
youth to an apprecia-
tion of the genuine
article. “Going to the
doctor” is largely a
matter of habit; and
the catching of the
patient when he is
young is likely to be an immense benefit, in
the long run, to the profession as well as the
community.
* * * *
“N.” : Brewarrina (N.S.W.) —Population
of police district, 1000; enlisted, 117; two
chaplains and one doctor at the Front;
matron of hospital as nursing sister in
Sicily. Any district beat this in practical
patriotism ?
“Catkin”: This is the Army ration that
the Kangaroo keeps his belt tight with in
Egypt
Fresh meat .. 1Mb.
Bread .. .. lib.
or flour . . fib.
or biscuits .. lib.
Tea .. .. loz.
Sugar .. .. 3oz.
Salt .. .. ioz.
Mustard. . . . l-50oz.
or curry powder
twice a week.. l-8oz.
Pepper .. .. l-36oz.
Bacon . . .. lib.
Cheese .. .. 3oz.
Vegetables (fresh) 11b.
(or in lieu of 41b.
vegetables, 2oz.
rice)
Potatoes. . . . 41b.
Firewood . . 21b.
The firewood isn’t edible, and neither is all
the lJlb. meat, which includes bone. Till
lately 31b. of timber was issued; but as it
nearly all has to be brought from Italy and
there are wolves on the track, this ration has
been cut down. The Egyptian Govern-
ment has also been allowing most of the
men in training BJd. a day for extras—jam
and asparagus and grilled pheasant-—but
when you get to your job this is dropped.
You can find a better menu at Shepheard’s;
but I’ve had less at a picnic, and smirked
afterwards that I enjoyed myself so much,
thank you.
* * * *
The ghost of a German Club put up its
head in front of a Licensing Bench
in Adelaide the other day. Half a century
ago it used to be one of the city’s chief insti-
tutions ; but new generations became sound
Australians, and the old place dwindled, and
was finally bought by the Salvation Army.
The modern successor is a democratic Sud
Australischer Allgemeiner Deutscher Yerein,
which before the war attracted a crowd of
members, half of whom know nothing of Ger-
man but merely want an inexpensive club.
The military authorities have forbidden them
to “assemble,” but the license, unused as it
is, continues, and may be a valuable asset.
The Club’s lawyer asked for and got leave to
apply again in six months. To The Bul-
letin this seems a suitable time to disqualify
any “Allgemeiner Deutscher Yerein” for life.
And anyway, while the present generation re-
tains its memory and its wits, what hope of
membership is there in Australia for any-
thing calling itself a German Club?-
Among the crowd that lined Collins-street
to do honor to a returning shipment of
wounded last week was a girl of about 22,
whose pale face and manifest anxiety
attracted attention. She pushed to'the front
at the Town Hall corner, and when the pro-
cession halted for a moment she urged eager
inquiries upon the soldiers. One Jimsy Miln
was the object of her solicitude. No soldier
seemed to know anything about Jimsy,
whereon the girl’s distress drew tears from
a matronly observer, who put a fat arm
about her and offered consolation. “There,
there, dearie, bear up,” said the mother of
anyone in trouble. “Is it your husband
you’re askin’ after, or your brother, or your
sweetheart maybe?” The girl shook her
head. “No, it ain’t,” she said. “It’s that
Miln. He went away owin’ mother two
pound and fourpence for board and laun-
dry !”
Note in feminine handwriting on the back
of a swimming programme :
Why are the attendants of sea baths so ferocious?
Are they specially bred for the job, or does the sun
scorch the good nature out of them ? In this
locality mixed bathing is allowed to ruin our
morals for two hours every Sunday morning. At
the tick of the second hour every male must splash
ashore. It sometimes happens that the warning bell
finds Bert so interested in Grace’s swimming lesson
that he refuses to hear. Then the bath attendant
(who seems to be retained for his gift of being
furious at short notice) bellows at Bert and
asks him if he would like to stay in all day. Bert
says “Yes” and dives again. Then the attendant
really loses his temper. If you thought he had lost
it before you see at once how badly you were mis-
taken. But the day I liked our old fury best was
tile morning six laughing girls dragged a rotten old
black raft from its moorings and towed it into deep
water. As they clung to the relic and swam round
it, the stipendiary fumer was observed hurrying to
the scene with a megaphone. But the more he
howled the more cheerfully the sea-maidens defied
him. At last he flung down his futile instrument,
dashed to cover and in a minute or so emerged in a
bathing-dress like a wasp’s wedding-garment. As
he hit the water the girls swam out on the other
side and stood laughing on the steps. They were
quite safe and knew it. The maddest bath-attendant
would not try to spank six athletic daughters of
the local peerage in their swimming costumes.
* * * *
Condensed testimonial from an English
staff-officer who watched the Anzacs.
scramble into action at Gallipoli:—
They are the sort of people who, if thrown into
Hell, would before night have a fireproof house made
out of things they found lying about, and would be
serving iced drinks next day.
A CONSIDERATION.
“Now, my clear, you'd better marry him.
He’s old, I'll admit; but think of his
money.”
“But, papa, he may live for months!”
A DOMESTIC ITEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
My lady wore a red, red gown,
As red it seemed to me
As aught that divers of renown
Drew from the Tyrian sea,
Or those who wore the Csesar’s crown
Assumed for majesty.
Beneath its hem her little feet
Made twinkles as she stept;
Her hair, within a cap, as neat
As a licked kitten slept;
But, as I rushed her lips to greet,
She paused and turned and wept.
I scented tragic deep despair.
Perchance the cook was dead,
Or drunk, or broken past repair
By that fierce life she led—
Gone where the broken chinaware
In daily fragments fled.
But, no. My lady’s tender heart,
Though peace knows some alloy,
Endures the cook’s domestic art
And all she may destroy.
These tears on my beloved’s part
I found were wept for joy.
With ready hand her face I dried—
’Twas labor vain, forsooth ;
The liquid torrent swelled and died
Before I knew the truth—-
Then through her choking sobs she cried :
“Our baby’s got a tooth!’’
RURU.


THEE SWIMMER.


THE RATS.
Bulgarian politicians will not hesitate to desert Germany if the attack at Verdun fails, and Berlin and Vienna are fully aware of this fact. —Cable.


VHAVING
(J)TICK
For an
Ideal Shave
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
ir
¥XLrzr2*C* >S - -cr-.
!|§|fe|S§ fflfe^-..' \
11 fegfersv..
Wo,
/v>.
O •„
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
iWMt
LEWIS &WMITTY
MErIfSOURNE & SYDNEY
How to Get Rid of Dandruff
This Home-made Mixture Removes
Dandruff and Stops the Hair from
Falling Out.
The following simple recipe, which can be
mixed at home or put up by any chemist,
will quickly remove dandruff and stop the
hair from falling out.
To a half-pint of water add loz. of bay
rum, 1 small box of Orlex Compound anc
roz. of glycerine. These are all simple in-
gredients that you can buy from any chemis
at very little cost, and mix them yourseu.
Apply to the scalp once a day for two weeks,
then once every other week until the mixtiue
is used. A .half-pint should be enough to
rid the hair of dandruff and kill the dandm
germs. It stops the hair from falling ou
and relieves itching and scalp disease.
Although it is not a dye it acts upon t ie
hair roots and will darken streaked, tanea,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
and glossy.—Advt.
PERJONAL
ITEMS
Sydney City Council is not going to lose
its roughest diamond, Arthur Vernon, who
had to face the electors of Cook Ward a
second time, after consenting to an ouster in
order to avoid the piling up of legal expenses
in the Courts. The increase of his majority
from nine to 225 justified his confidence. He
has a quaint way of making his points, but
he supplies more common-sense than men
who have a splendid faculty of vacant dis-‘
course.
The Methody parson has come out of this
war-test surprisingly well. In N. S. Wales
alone no less than 17 have peeled off their
garments of gloom and set out to make the
world better with a gun.
Chief Justice Murray having succeeded
Way as Chancellor of Adelaide Uni., the
Vice-Chancellorship has been handed to Pro-
fessor Mitchell. The Council has to appoint
one of its own members, and it passed over
old parson Jefferis, who was present when
the University was born, and the retired
schoolmaster Chappie, who has for years been
Warden of the Senate. Then, admitting that
a member of the teaching staff might also be
a satisfactory head, it passed over Stirling,
the senior professor, and elevated Mitchell.
He is a hard-headed, brilliant Scotchman,
who came from Edinburgh 20 years ago and
married into the wealthy Barr Smith family.
Ilis subject is Philosophy, and he has written
a clever but heavy book on it; but he is him-
self as practical as Philosophy is unpractical.
Murray and Mitchell are both only a trifle
over 50, and may look forward to most of a
quarter of a century of useful work in double
harness.
A HYMN OF FATE.
You took from out the spool of Hate
The fabric for- your dream:
But Hunger carries on the theme.
While (trim Destruction lies in wait
To work the final will of Fate.
N.S.W. HAMER.
Even the Argus is finding space for com-
plimentary remarks about Prime Minister
Hughes' in these days of his success. “Sweet
are the Hugheses of” —prosperity.
A couple of years ago John Daniels died
at Richmond (Tas.) at the reputed age of
104. and the same village boasts another
centenarian who had what she reckons her
101st birthday on March 4. and is still going
strong after living 65 years in the township.
She was, she claims, born in Ireland a few
months before the battle of Waterloo, and
got a free passage to Van Diemen’s Land in
1849. “I’m the last of my sort left alive in
Richmond,” she says, and she’s proud of it.
George Reid in London the other day:
“Colonial life is the life to knock the corners
off a man.” There is a vain pretence behind
this. It was not life that knocked the corners
off Anzac, M.P. ; it was living—good living.
“McNorth” gives a hard case a send-off: —
One of the most picturesque links with New
Guinea’s past was snapped a while ago when
Nikolas Minister, otherwise Nikolas the Greek,
blaekbirder, trader, alleged pirate and a few other
things, quietly slipped his moorings. There were only
about 60in. of him, but his extraordinary courage,
resource and fighting ability made up for his lack
of length. He was a Captain Kettle —and more. His
lean body was covered with wounds obtained in scraps
with natives and others.. On one occasion his vessel
was seized by a horde of savages, and Nick was
emptied over to the waiting sharks; but a trailing
rope enabled him to clamber back. As he gripped
the rail a tomahawk descended and made a mess of
his hands. That would have served most men as a
hint to clear out; but this plucky morsel fought his
way aboard, and, unaided, recaptured the vessel and
sailed away to safety. Nick would never tell what
happened after he regained the deck and reached the
cabin where the firearms were. One of Minister’s
exploits was the stock joke of the South Seas for
many years. A patrolling warship was anxiously
searching the northern coast of New Guinea for him.
In those days the charts of those regions had the
words, “These waters are unknown,” scattered freely
over them; and it wasn’t long before the war-
ship got tangled up in a maze of reef& Nick
watched her manoeuvres from his lugger, which was
hidden in a little bay, and, assured that he was
unknown to anyone on board, put off in his
dinghy and offered his services as a pilot. His offer
was gratefully accepted, and after giving the captain
a lot of misinformation in answer to questions about
himself, left the vessel in the deep water, and re-
turned to his lugger loaded with presents and
expressions of thanks and goodwill.
Prime Minister W. M. Hughes has been
made a Right Honorable. Other living
Australians who are P.C.’s are Barton. J.
Cook, Fisher, Forrest, Samuel Griffith, Reid
and George Turner.
Every man of military age in the Maurice-
ville district of Maoriland has enlisted. Nine-
tenths of these men are the sons and grand-
sons of those Scandinavian immigrants who
first settled the Forty Mile Bush just
about the hardiest, most frugal pioneers the
Ricketty Isles have known. Meanwhile
many young pioneers of picture shows and
street corners are sturdily holding them-
selves in reserve.
On the “17th of Ireland” the Lord Mayor
of Sydney, in the “Official Oration,” said : -
Scarcely 50 vears had elapsed since the so-called
Irish rebels of ’4B, John Mitchell, Charles Gavan
Duffy and Thomas Francis Meagher, had reached
these shores. But their names were perpetuated in
a different way to what had been intended. They
were perpetuated in public life. The son of John
Mitchell was now Mayor of New York, Charles
Gavan Duffy’s son was a distinguished member of
the High Court of Australia, and Thomas Francis
Meagher had his name perpetuated as Lord . Mayor
of the chief city of Australia.
It will surprise the Meaghers of Kilkenny
that they have the honor to be connected
with the Lord Mayor of Sydney, and it will
equally surprise the Duffys to hear that
Charles Gavan Duffy came to these shores as
an Irish rebel. He arrived “free” in Mel-
bourne in 1855.
Died at Rand wick (N.S.W.) recently,
and buried at Bathurst, aged SI, William
Sutton, who once had a “scrap” with Gil-
bert’s gang of ’rangers. Superintendent
Morrisett and some police, including Sut-
ton, had been scouring the hills near Car-
eoar for this lot and their sympathisers.
Not being able to capture the real Mackay,
three suspects—bush telegraphs—were col-
lared. taken into Carcoar and placed in
Cobb’s Coach for a ride to Bathurst.
Fearing a rescue, Morrisett, Sergeant
Grainger (afterwards a superintendent) and
Merrim (afterwards an inspector) rode with
the three in the-coach, while trooper Sut-
ton rode the superintendent’s horse behind.
Four miles on the Bathurst side of Carcoar
three mounted men galloped up and called
upon the driver to stop. This he did,
whereon the police jumped from the vehicle
and stood on the defensive. Several shots
were fired on both sides, but no damage was
done. Sutton, the only mounted man, rode
up. full charge, firing two shots from his
revolver as he did so. lie was raising his
hand for a third venture, when one of the
men shot him through the arm, which fell
powerless, and another bullet passed through
his hat. The three men were Gilbert,
O’Meally and Yane. They all escaped.
R. FIDDES BROWN. President of the
A.N.A. (Vic.), orating about, the Hempire.
That sound sport Janies Niall, who has
long been pursuing the pot of gold at the tail
of the rainbow, has put bv enough to keep
him from starvation, and is about to retire
from general-managing Goldsbrough. Mort’s.
Niall joined the firm 20 years ago as pastoral
inspector, and he is still to be a director. Bob
Niall. a brother, is also now living on the
interest of his experiences. He might have
sat back a few years earlier had his luck
been built that way ; for long ago. during a
\Y estralian visit, he camped alongside what
later was pegged out as the Wealth of
Nations.
Cap’n Matthews, for nearly 20 vears cm *
inspector of mines in S. Australia efi
from the job the other day. During the Tea
Barrier boom of a quarter of a century ™,
Gap n Bill was manager of the Round mil
which was supposed to be a bigger thb
than Broken Hill; and he and Zeb Un!
his neighbor at the North, figured as the S’
SPRIGG, of the
Melbourne trams.
perts who made the
most frequent re-
ports. There was
never a concern so
hopeless that Mat-
thews and Lane
couldn’t find some
] easons for not say-
ing so in a pro-
spectus. They
looked at so many
good things that
they ought to have
easily become mil-
lionaires ; instead,
when the bottom
dropped out of the
boom and the
Round Hill at the
same time, Zeb
Lane went M’est
and stumbled by
accident on the
Golden Mile, while
Matthews pulled
up in S. Aus. and
was glad to take
the poor job of in-
specting mines that
mostly refuse to
exist.
It was 10 years on March 22 since the
Convention which framed the Commonwealth
Constitution began its sittings in quiet little
Adelaide. Kingston (president) and Baker
(chairman of committees) are both dead,
and so are 20 other members of the Conven-
tion, as well as Blackmore, its clerk. Of the
28 survivors the oldest is William Moore,
of Tasmania, who is over 00. Barton, Reid.
Carruthers, McMillan, all knighted since
1897, and Walker and Wise are alive of the
10 Conventionists from the Ma State. Not
one of them is now in Federal politics; in
fact, of all the Federal front-rankers of to-
day, Bigjohn Forrest is the only one who
figured among the 50. Queensland was not
represented.
According to present arrangements Cas-
sell’s are to publish George Reid’s book of
“recollections” in the autumn- —which means
anywhere between October and Christmas.
Almost equal interest would attach to the
things he prefers to forget—including his
little book of verse.
Henry Lucy, who until the other day con-
tributed the “Essence of Parliament” to
London Punch, gave a complimentary par.
to George Reid’s maiden effort at West-
minster. There is an unwritten law that
new members shall be seen and not heard
for a reasonable period. A novice in a
hurry to air his eloquence becomes conscious
of a sudden chilliness in the atmosphere;
but George, says Lucy, could plead extenuat-
ing circumstances in breaking the unwritten
rule. Yet even he did not venture beyond
a few remarks, “brief and to the point, with
no asphyxiating smell of the lamp about it.”
The only notable instance of more rapid
action was provided by John Redmond some
30 years ago. A few months before John
Redmond paid his visit to Australia t<>
marry into the wealthy Dalton family, of
Sydney and Orange, he took his seat one
afternoon at 4 o'clock, delivered his maiden
speech at 6.50, and was suspended for dis-
orderly conduct just on the stroke of mid-
night.
From the House of Commons gallery:—
George Reid’s return for St. George’s, Hanover
Square, has set the galleries gossiping about “colo-
nials'’ jn the British Parliament. The American
colonies before the War of Independence sent some
men into the House, and so did one or two of the
West Indian islands in the 18th century. As regard*
Australia, Thomas Chisholm Anstey, barrister and
member of an old Tasmanian family, seems to have
been the first to arrive at Westminster. He was
returned for an Irish constituency in 1852. Since
then Sydney has sent Robert Lowe (Viscount Sher-
’brooke), Henniker Heaton, the two Currans (father
and son), and IV. A. McArthur, a native of the city.
Melbourne has been represented by H. C. E. Chil-
ders, who held the highest offices in the Gladstone
Governments; J. F. Hogan, author and journalist;
and N. L. Outhwaite, who, at latest, was offering
vigorous opposition to compulsory military service, ■
and was being threatened by an irate Colonel, who
promised to string him up by the thumbs. Away
back in the ’4o’s N. S. Wales had a member of its
own in the House: the Government of that time paid
the Hon. Francis Scott, member for Berwick, £5,00
a year to speak up for Australia at Westminster
whenever opportunity offered. A primitive arrange-
ment, a prelude to the era of Agents-General and
High Commissioners that had not yet dawned.
THE SCAVENGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many scavengers are at work. —English newspaper.
Oo’ll sing th’ ditty of th’ scavengers ?
Gorblime, blokes, I think it’s upter me!
Done in me job on a ’Orstralian transport
’N’ found meself in London stony-broke!
’Ung round th’ docks ’n’ touched th’ mates o’
steamers,
Liners and coasters —-everythink wot floats.
“Full ’anded ’ere!” was all I got. I reckoned
Th’ world ’ad snouted me —Gawd turned me down !
And w'en me tail was ’angin’ perpendic’lar
1 snares er job on this ’ere scavenger,
And here I am!
The Channel lights are burning dim,
The weird fog-trumpets blow;
Great ships, unlighted, ghostly, grim,
Are passing to and fro;
But where the coastline cuts the sea
And frowning cliffs loom high
In silent pairs, unceasingly,
The Scavengers go by.
Creepin’, creepin’—-
Someone must do the sweepin’—
This German dirt was laid to hurt;
Death mines the rolling green.
Sweepin’, sweepin’,
A restless vigil keepin'—
We ask not now a why nor how,
But keep the sea-roads clean!
We seek no journalistic puff
From some exultant pen;
Our little trawlers, brown and rough,
Are manned by merchantmen-
Men tried and proved. We know the land
That called on ns to serve
(Both officer and ’foremast hand)
Will trust us not to swerve !
Creeping, creepin’—
Drown'd seamen's bones are heapin’
In ghastly cones, where Davy Jones
Hangs out his ghoulish sign!
Sweepin’, sweepin’,
While London lies a-sleepin’,
We onward go—rain, hail or snow—
And fish the deadly mine!
In Flanders and Gallipoli,
Midst hellish din and smoke,
Brave men were fighting hard to free
The world from Hatred's yoke;
But, though we took no part in it
And heard no screaming shells,
We tried to do a little bit—
The little bit that tells!
Creepin’, creepin’-
While submarines are peepin’
With shark-like eyes that can't disguise
Their lust for English dead.
Sweepin’, sweepin’,
Up channel ships are leapin’,
The roads must be kept clean and flee
For England’s ships to tread !
I'm in a thinking mood to-night
(Though thinking time is rare).
My heart is with the men who fight
That we may breathe free air!
1 think of millions to be fed
With goods from lands afar,
And watch the light on Beachy Head
Doze like a ‘spent-out star! •
Creepin’, creepin’ —
A sound of women weepin’
Falls on my ears .... those bitter tears
Will last for many a year.
Creepin’, creepin’ —-
We’re sweepin sweepin’, sweepin’,
While England’s food, by blood made good,
Comes vp the sea-roads clear!
Lat. Odeg. 33min. N.
Long., 43deg. 20nffn. V.
WALT. J. SNADDEN.


' V /
'V ' /
•"1 rn f7i=fTHT\ n
# 4*. m/*H» *
The
Three Ca/tles
Brand
1
A
k
Cigarettes
Men in training of any sort know
the value and necessity of a per-
fectly wholesome cigarette. The
best of all cigarettes is the incom-
parable “Three Castles.” It is the
cigarette that goes with a clear eye
and a steady hand. Standing first
in quality, it is also first in flavour.
It is made solely from the highest
grade tobacco the world produces.
Riflemen swear by it.
W. D. ®. H. O. WILLS
Cigarettes
inree
\X&
Q no bfttfPbron,/ /Aon tfie fj
TTirri’/q/rffS
W.D.& H.O.WILLS.
(Australia) Ltd., Sydney.


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS —Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR IjIFT for non-flowing 1 bores and where
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney,
for increasing supply at Pera Bore, Botirke.
the water has receded.
Adopted by the Government
[2
BUCYRUiS CO. Milwaukee
•Steam •Shovels, Drag Dine Excavators.
Sole Agent*—WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth*
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Dividends.
, N To Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1911.. 3,565
Reserves.
1912.. 93.016 28,125 7p.c.= 33,125 31,766 28,201
1913.. 63.058 30,000 54,, „ 27,500 5,558 33,759
1914.. 60.460 30,000 5 ~,,25,000 5,460 39,219
Profit on sale of assets, plus trans-
tferred from contingency account 14,136 53,355
1915.. 90.634 30,000 7p.e.= 35,000 25,634 78,989
For the first time since the co. was formed
the profits come up to the expectations held
out in the prospectus. Certainly things were
more or less unsettled previously, and a good
part of the £250,000 which the public put up
was probably not earning a great deal; some
of it, being in ships under construction, was
earning nothing at all. On the other hand,
whoever figures on recent shipping profits
being maintained will unquestionably be
disappointed. But this paper isn’t prepared
to say that Huddart Parker’s true profits
for the past year were not much in excess
even of £90,634, plus the profit on the sale
of the old Burrumbeet. This comparison
suggests that there may be a bit put away:—
1914. 1915. ’lncrease.
Reserve fund .. .. £4,502 £30,000 £25,498
Insurance fund .. .. 23,655 36,834 13,179
Contingency fund, etc... 36,185 63,812 27,627
P. and L. balance .. 11,062 77,155 66,093
Total increase of funds .. .. £132,397
In addition something may have been
written off against depreciation: at any rate
steamships, plant and properties are included
in the balance-sheet “at valuation.” But
the £27,627 wdiich has been added to the
Contingency Fund, etc., may not be true
profit: the balance-sheet item suggests a
quaint mixture —“Reserve for contingencies,
depreciation of property and shares in other
cos., repairs and maintenance, boilers and
renewals, superannuation fund, etc.” To
this heap only £5678 was added in 1914; in
the past year £27,627 was added net —that
is, after the transfer of an unspecified
amount to the formal reserve fund. It is
pretty clear, then, that the co. has had a
rattling good year by comparison with the
previous 12 months.
And you can easily come to the same con-
clusion by glancing at the next comparison :
Dec., 1913. Dec., 1914. Dec., 1915.
Ships, etc. ..£608,456 £857,376 £922,576
Cash .. .. 41,443 46,875 23,780
Debts due to co. 74,888 69,306 81,979
Investments .. 429,357 191,598 207,697
, Stores .. .. 39,695 34,926 35,061
Total assets £1,193,839 £1,200,081 £1,271,093
Less liabilities 102,073 97,177 93,292
Net assets £1,091,766 £1,102,904 £1,177,801
Assuming that ships have been written
down, this shows a very fine increase in
assets during the past year. The “etc.” in
that first line, by the way, includes the co.’s
big holding in the Ilebburn Colliery, in the
Newcastle district; and that ought to be
good property, especially in the hands of a
co. like this with ships of its own and a big
connection in tlie domestic coal business. The
one serious doubt when the co. was formed
and for some time afterwards was whether
the new concern had not paid too much for
the old Huddart Parker outfit; but current
abnormal conditions have given it a splendid
chance to even things up in that respect.
The Squatting Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne) : —•
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1903. . £15,023 24 p.c. = £7,300 £7723 £1,420
1904.. 22,329 5 ~ „ 14,600 7729 9,149
1905.. 19,605 5 „ „ 14,600 5005 14,154
1906.. 21,801 5 ~ „ 14,600 7201 21,355
1907.. 19,561 5 „ „ 14,600 4961 26,316
Loss.
1908.. 8,816 41-6 „ „ 12,167 5,333
Profit.
1909.. 12,069 31 „ „ 9,733 2336 7,669
1910.. 9,696 31 „ „ 9,733 7,632
1911.. 7,444 3 J „ „ 9,733 5,343
1912.. 10,461 34 „ „ 9,733 728 6,071
1913.. 18,292 6s „ „ 19,466 4,897
1914.. 17,661 31 „ „ 9,733 7928 12,825
1915.. 14,569 6f „ „ 19,466 7,928
When the directors divide more than 3,1 p.c.
they “wish the shareholders to consider” the
excess as a return of capital. The first
distribution of the kind was made at the
end of 1913, when the directors notified that
they proposed to thus pay out in all 10s. a
share before writing down capital and assets
to correspond. Meantime no other provision
is made for wastage of leases or depreciation
of improvements. The property consists of
sheep squattages just over the border in
Queensland, and apparently runs to about
1200 sq. miles, held on lease, with 19 years
to go. Anythii 0 may happen at the end of
the period; but whatever happens the co.
has tenant right in improvements—that is to
say, the incoming man has to pay their value
to him.
Had the season been at all decent the co.
would have been at last in clover, in view
of the markets for wool and meat. But “the
season has been one of the worst on record.
The year’s rainfall amounted to only 5.11 in.,
of which only two falls (150 and 97 points)
were beneficial. For the past 21 years the
total rainfall has been only 16.68 in.” One
result is that, whereas 134.731 sheep and
lambs were shorn in 1914, only 83,682 were
mustered for the shears last year; and
meantime apparently only about 30,000
sheep were sold. That shrinkage cut badly
into the profits; in fact they would have
been practically nil but for the sale of the
clip at £ll,BOl in excess of the value
put on it in the 1914 balance-sheet. How-
ever, in a business of this sort it isn’t much
use paying heed to one year’s figures. You
can get a better view of things perhaps from
this comparison »
1907. 1914. 1915.
Liabilities .. ..£44,075 £l,lBO £1,031
Live stock .. 79,602 56,122 43,740
Plant and stores.. 21,420 7,461 7,063
Wool .. .. 20,289 19,897 10,057
Cash, etc 103 10,891 33,665
Thus in eight years, besides paying the
dividends, the co. has reduced its liabilities
by £43,000; and though its live stock, plant
and wool on hand are less, liquid assets are
£33,000 more. The, reduction of live stock
isn’t of very serious consequence either; for
there is no sort of property which so rapidly
increases in value under fairly favorable
conditions. The earlier history of the co.
was very bad, mainly on account of excessive
capitalisation and a heavy debt; but with a
smaller outlay on improvements and all the
old debt now got rid of, the outlook is won-
derfully improved. The future will never-
theless remain speculative, not only on
account of the character of the country and
the climate and the markets, but also because
of the uncertainty as to what will happen
when the lease runs out.
* * * *
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.:—*
Dividends
6 p.c. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1915.. £532,824 £89,084 12 p.c. = £438,618 £5122 £24,498
1916.. 538,532 89,084 12 „ „ 443,495 5953 30,451
This is the successor to the British-Aus-
tralasian Tobacco Co., which in 1903 took
over the Dixson and Cameron cos.; and
those cos. had previously done some absorp-
tion on their own account. It isn’t a manu-
facturing co.; it is a holding co. That is
to say, the individual shareholder isn’t a
shareholder in any tobacco business: his
interest is in an investment co. which has
put its money into various tobacco cos.
The scheme completely protects the manu-
facturers from the inquisitive shareholder
who might let in too much light. Practically
the only visible asset of the co. is “Shares
in subsidiary cos. (book value), £4,769,470”;
and the balance-sheet figures “do not in-
clude the co.’s interest in the undivided
profits of the subsidiary cos.” Therefore,
though for last year it is made known to the
shareholders that “direct net profits and
dividends” amounted to £577,239, they really
don’t know how much more the actual profits
were. So also, though cash at bankers
amounts to only £58,395, possibly there may
be another £lOO,OOO lying at the credit of
the subsidiary cos., which this co. wholly
owns. On the other hand, the subsidiary cos.
may be heavily in debt, though this co. shows
only £47,623 owing on all accounts. Summed
up, the shareholder in the British Tobacco
Co. knows just no'tliing at all about the con-
cern, and can know nothing; he has to take
the management’s word for everything—or
less even than the management’s word.
The prefs. are 6 p.c. cumulative, and
represent £1,500,000, of which 1.484,727 are
now issued; the ordinaries authorised are
4.000.000, of £1 each, of which 3,702,244
have been issued; and present holders are
looking forward to getting the balance some
day. But the employees apparently get a
cut first, for it is the practice of the sub-
sidiary cos. to pay over certain sums to
trustees who buy shares in this co. for the
benefit of the work people, thus enabling the
latter to share increasingly in the profits.
Last year no less than £38,708 was paid to
the trustees for this admirable purpose.
Maybe the agitation will some day be
resumed for a State monopoly of the tobacco
business; but it is pretty certain that the
movement won’t come from inside the trade,
so long as the present policy is pursued.
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart,
Tas.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1907 .. £3637 6p.c.=£3402 £235 £9,623
June, 1908.. 4698 6 „ „ 3402 1296 10,919
Dec., 1908.. 3298 6 „ „ 3402 10,815
June, 1909 .. 3823 6 „ „ 3402 421 11,236
Dec., 1909 . . 3092 6 „ „ 3442 10,886
June, 1910.. 4821 6 „ ~ 3442 1429 12,315
Dec., 1910 . . 71R5 6 „ „ 3402 3733 16,048
June, 1911 .. 3190 6 „ ~ 3402 15,836
Dec., 1911.. 4064 6 „ „ 3402 662 16,498
June, 1912 . . 3444 6 „ „ 3402 42 16,540
Dec., 1912.. 3602 6 ~ „ 3402 200 16,740
June, 1913 .. 4180 6 „ „ 3402 778 17,518
Dec., 1913 . . 4665 6 „ ~ 3402 1263 18,781
June, 1914 . . 7018 6 „ „ 3402 3616 22,397
Dec., 1914 . . 6362 6 ~ „ 3402 2960 25,357
June, 1915.. 4778 6 „ „ 3402 1376 26,733
Dec., 1915.. 5807 6 „ „ 3402 2405 29,138
It has been a slow business, chiefly because
the co. was overloaded with non-productive
assets and Tasmania made wretchedly little
progress; but it’s dogged does it. and the
accounts are gradually changing their gloomy
aspect. This gives the best view perhaps:—
Dec.,’os. June,’ls. Dec.,’ls.
Mortgages and deposits. . £97,504 £86,927 £77,177
Overdrafts, etc 34,446 20,531 14,964
Hotels, properties, etc. .. 186,946 183,660 182 791
Stock and plant. . . . 38,258 40,630 32,492
Book debts, etc 25,297 22,446 18,784
Cash and liquid assets . . 653 184 12
So the burden of debt has been reduced by
just-on £40,000 in 10 years ; and meantime
it is highly probable that the actual revenue-
producing assets have increased. The revenue
from property, anyway, is distinctly better •
rents brought in £3775 in the latter half of
1005 and £4749 in the latter half of 1915.
The ordinary trading profit certainly isn’t
any better; but that apparently is only tem-
porary, the result of recent high prices for
malt,, etc. Previously gross profits from
brewings and sale of cordials and grains,
etc., were moving up slowly but fairly
steadily ; and the growing tendency of Aus-
tralia to cultivate a taste for cider ought to
accelerate the speed of the improvement pre-
sently. But Tasmanian legislation is no
more'likely than any other Australian legisla-
tion to favor either Bung or the brewer;
and that makes the future of this co. a good
deal of a gamble, with no prospect of any
large prize either.
* * * *
A party is getting out a 10-ton parcel of
silver-lead ore at Mt. Werong, about 35
miles from Oberon (N.S.W.), to ascertain
whether, at present prices of metals, the ore
would pay to send away. There is said to
be plenty ore at Mt. Werong; but the
trouble in the past was that there was
enough zinc in it to make it refractory.
There is a wide expanse of mineral-bearing
country thereabouts. Much of it is quite
unprospected; but it is wild, mountainous,
heavily-timbered, ungetatable, and far away
from pubs and pleasures of civilisation.
Beard, Watson, Ltd. (Sydney), house
furnishers, etc.: —
Dividends.
Pro- r A ; -\ To Re- Re-
Julv, fits.-: Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
1909.. £5,341
Premiums on new shares, £46 .. 5,387
1910. . £12,232 £768 10p.c.= £4374 £7090 12,477
1911.. 11,943 900 10 „„ 5000 6043 18,520
1012.. 14,737 956 10 „ „ 5152 8629 27,149
1913.. 11,314 1697 10 „ „ 7214 2403 29,552
1914.. 146 1800 Nil 27,898
1915.. 1,939 1800 Nil 139 28,037
The directors have hung up the issue of the
last year’s accounts so that they might tell
shareholders the result of the arbitration
which followed on the judgment in their favor
in the action against the Dixson Trust. In
September, 1913, while alterations were
being carried out by the landlord (the Dix-
son Trust) to the co.’s premises, there was
a collapse ; and the Court said that the land-
lord was responsible for the broken crockery
and Verdunned furniture. Very sensibly the
matter was then referred to the arbitration
of, an accountant for the settlement of the
damages, which were lately fixed at £23,152.
But there is one more hurdle yet. The Dix-
son Trust, though turned down by the High
Court, got leave to appeal to the Privy
Council; and now everything hangs on that.
If the Judicial Committee refuses to disturb
the judgments below, the wind will be tem-
pered to the shorn lamb. But there won’t
be £23,152 to transfer to profit, because
already this co. includes among the assets
this item: “Suspense account, £15,848.”
This is understood to be the extent of the
estimated losses of stock, without regard to
the losses of trade. If, then, no further
writing down of stock has to be done on
account of the accident, and if all legal
costs have been provided for, and if the
Privy Council agrees with the Australian
Courts, the aggregate profit for the past
two years, instead of being £2085, will be
£9389 (the difference between the £23.152
allowed by the arbitrator and the £15.848
already taken credit for, plus the £2085
shown in the table).
The co. is in the house-furnishing business,
and stocks high-class stuff. This means a
lot of capital; for these are not the bread-
and-butter lines that can be turned out three
or four times a year. Down to the middle
22, 14 , there were 75,000 ordinaries and
30.000 Ist 6 p.c. prefs. But the co. was
then leaning so heavily on its banker that
it was decided to get in £52,500 in 2nd pref.
7 p.c. Just as the operation was completed,
so far at any rate as the co. was concerned,
the Kaiser went mad. Perhaps the co. was
lucky to get the money at all: still 7 p.c.
cumulative pref. is a big load to carry, and
ordinaries can’t relish the fact that there
are arrears to pay up before they can have
a bite. Even with the £52,500 paid up and
th ® , serious 7 P-c., the co. owed
£00,009 on July 31. The trouble is not only
the heavy stocks (£135,379), but the book
debts, which run to no less than £61,290.-
One expects to see amounts like this in the
accounts of a co. that goes in for a hire-
purchase business; and there we know that
interest and other charges have been pro-
vided for. But from a co. like Beard Wat-
son. people expect to get the benefits of cash
though they don’t pay for two or three
months, and though that accommodation is
costing Beard Watson’s at least 7 p.c.
The public is mostly interested in the
pref. shares; and though only Ist prefs. have
been kept fed. there ought to be enough
except under the most unusual circumstances
firJrL 211 ! pr , efs - to °- The total capital is
£157,500; the Ist and 2nd prefs. take i 0475
a year, which amounts to only about 34 p c
on the whole capital; and if'the whole cap-
ital can t do that, especially as no part of it
is represented by goodwill or other water
then there is something very wrong either
with the management or with this country’s
taste in house-furnishing.
r £,^ nlop Ru ? ber Co. of Australasia,
lad. Ihis co., seeing the possibilities of in-
creased trade ahead, proposes reconstruction
as the easiest way of raising the necessary
onnmo 3 ° api , ta J' The Present co. is in
260.000 cumulative pref. shares, 90 000
oqffnlS n ° n ' cn . mula five pref. shares, and
-.30,000 ordinaries. The first prefs. take 7
p.c., then the second prefs. take 9 p.c • then
the ordinaries take 10 p.c. ; finally first prefs
come m for anything extra that may be
t,itS b n U « te f d ii The new co - is to be consti-
tuted as follows:
. . Free Shares. At Par
First prefs .. 200,000 + 150,600 120,000
Second prefs.. . 90,000 + 4,500 22 500
Ordinaries . . 230,000 + 23,000 57^00
_ , 520,000 177,500 200,000
But thefree shares are to be Ist (A), 2nd
(B) and 3rd (C) prefs., and all the shares
to be issued at par are to be ordinaries (D)
A shares are to have 7 p.c., and are still to
be cumulative pref.; B are then entitled to
p P.c., C to 10 p.c.—just the same as at
present. Next D shares (new canUou
< p.c. The difference starts when £f [
plus profits are appropriated Tn Ik Ur '
sent co. these, if divided, go to the 11f f e ‘
But in the new co., the Ist ll f mk
an additional 3 p.c., 2nd prefs iff’ get
and ordinaries 1 p.c.; these “are tn i P-C ’
dared simultaneously.” Any furtl/ ,i- • de ‘
will be for the benefit of the" oS i
present Ist prefs. thus clearly eiv „' rhe
something: when they get 10 n e oZ awa y
are to get 10 „.e. toj. 8 A nd fg ' 2 “ , p ?'
at 10 p.c., whereas now there is nn rf P
to their dividend. But a 7 p c dv£°J mit
the 350,000 shares which the Ist Dre t
get is equal to 121 p.c. on present shares 2
in addition they have the right to three-fiffi
of the new issue of ordinary shares at 2
and these ordinaries will carry par ’
dividends after the Ist, 2nd and 3 d ZT
have had 10 p.c. Further, the Ist prebf 5u
have the benefit of the extra security
the additional £200,000 of capital
and that is worth the small concession S
regard to dividend which they make
Finally for obvious reasons it would not £
advisable to put up the rate of divide/
much if any beyond the 12} p. c . which was
paid last year, so that without this re Con
struction the Ist prefs. wouldn’t be likelvT
get as much as they will get now. The dim
tors say they have tried to do a fair thing a li
aZimbly " t 0 S ««!
The average annual profits for the nasi
three years have been £51,832. To pay divi
dends in the new co. will require:
First prefs .. .. 7 p.c. = £24,500
Second prefs 9 p.c. = 8 505
Third prefs i 0 p. c . = 25,300
Ordinaries .. .. 7 p.c. = 14,000
Total .. .. £72^305
The additional dividends “to be declared
simultaneously” will require :
First prefs .. .. 3 p.c. = £10,500
Second prefs i p . c . = 945
Ordinaries .. .. i p . c . _ 2 ,000
Total .. ..£13,445
Thus to give all the present shares (and the
free shares to correspond) 10 p.c. and the
new ordinaries 8 p.c. will call for £85.750
of which £16,000 will go to the shares repre-
senting the new capital of £200,000. The
10 p.c. on the new Ist pref. shares would be
equal to 17} p.c. on the present Ist pref.
shares, and 10 p.c. on the new 2nd prefs.
would be equal to 10} p.c. on the present 2nd
prefs., irrespective of any value the right to
apply for ordinary shares may have.
* * * *
Some time ago the teamsters and others
in the timber business on the Atherton table-
land formed the North Queensland Lumber
Co., Ltd.; and they haven’t got fat on it yet.
Last accounts show accumulated profits of
£8: but included among the assets is the
item “Litigation, £533,” the costs, etc., of
an action which went against the co., and
that jtujns the accumulated profit into a loss
of £525. It would have been better if the
accounts had been made up that way. But
some other doubts which appear to have
arisen in the minds of the shareholders are
unjustified. There is in particular an idea
that a reserve of £247 provided for bad debts
should have been written off; and so it has
been. Apparently in trying to make tha't
fact clear to shareholders the auditor or
whoever was responsible for the form of the
accounts has merely succeeded in mystifying
them. But that is not his fault. The
accounts (with the exception noted above)
are all right. The finances are far less satis-
factory : the co.’s capital is quite insufficient
for the business, considering both its volume
and its nature.
North Broken Hili., Ltd., which till
recently was the N.B.H. Mining Co.,
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier:—
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 'OB.. 30,293 20 p.c.= 14,000 13,034 60,286
June, ’09.. 27,305 20 „„ 14,000 13,096 60,495
Dec., ’O9. . 31,764 20 „„ 14,000 17,550 60,709
New share premiums, £35,000. . 95,709
June, ’lO.. 50,120 35 p.c.= 28,000 22,783 95,046
Dec., ’lO.. 73,179 40 „„ 35,000 26,328 106,897
June, ’ll.. 62,201 60 „ „ 52,500 12,662 103,936
Dec., ’ll.. 98,708 70 „„ 61,250 12,168 129,226
June, ’12.. 101,663 93j „ „ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dec., ’l2. . 175,993 220 „ ~220,0 00 1 7,2 0 0 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £200,000 to £600.000.
June, T 3. . 142,018 20 p.c.= 60,000 3,265 78,753
Dec., ’13.. 152,596 40 „ ~120,000 1,925 109,424
June, ’l4. . 183,845 50 ~,,150,000 143,269
Dec., ’14.. 56,216 Nil 199,485
June, ’15.. 75,724 10 p.c.= 30,000 245,209
Dec., ’15.. 169,201 40 ~,, 120,000 294,410
The published reserves of a mining co. are
rarely to be taken seriously, because usually
nothing is written off for depreciation of the
biggest asset, the mine. In this case a
truer idea may be got from this comparison:
June, ’l5. Dec., ’l5.
Assets apart from mine and
mine and mill plant.. £596,913 £653,286
Liabilities .. .. .. 272,677 282,214
Surplus .. . . £324,236 £371,072
In addition to the £120,000 which has been
paid away in divs, and the money spent on
plant, the co. has increased its more or less
liquid assets by £46,536. These more or
less liquid assets include the £200.000 which
the co. has put into the Associated Smelters.
But the money put into plant during the
six months is not equal to the depreciation
it is most likely about £15,000 less; so the
net profit for the half-year may be taken to
be a shade under £150,000, without deduct-
ing anything for wastage of the mine asset
The ore reserves are estimated at 3.000.0 W
tons above the 1400 ft. level. Twelve months
ago the same figure was quoted, so that
apparently the 12 months’ development has
equalled the 12 months’ extraction. The
quantity of ore sent to mill was 138,484
tons, so the net profit was in excess of
£1 per ton. But it cannot be safely assumed
that the 3,000,000 tons in the mine will net


The British Westinghouse Electric Si Mfg. Co., Ltd.
HIGH ECONOMY
Westinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-§ets up to 10,000 Kilowatts.
fstinpliousf
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
VlARtBORNTO
trje* BcNtra*.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up
£250,000
194,235
82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
All the “say so” statements in the world will not
carry as much conviction as one practical proof.
“Chromol” belting demonstrates its efficiency as a
power-transmitter of unequalled capacity. Practical
proof is afforded in many of the largest mining plants
of the Commonwealth where “Chromol” belting is
used. It takes the stiffest drives under the most
severe conditions, and keeps its grip on the pulleys,
thus giving maximum power at minimum cost. Its
elastic, pliable, durable qualities commend it for
service under all atmospheric and industrial condi-
tions. J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York Street,
Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by
Messrs. Geo. Russell P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street,
Melbourne; South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson
Street, Port Adelaide; West Australia: Horace Sum-
mers, Howard Street, Perth; Queensland: Queens,
land Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane; Broken Hill:
Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street. —Advt.
• * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. —Advt.
* * * *.
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.—Advt. [1
* # * *
Extract from Joint Stock Companies Journal,
London, 15th September, 1915: “Insurance. —
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society. The Acci-
dent Branch —in which the policyholders have the
unusual privilege of sharing in the profits by means
of a system of bonuses —is steadily progressing in
the magnitude of its operations and the amount
of its profits. It is in the Ordinary Branch, how-
ever, that people in this country are interested.
It is the backbone of the whole thing; and in all
respects 4t presents an appearance of strength
and vigor which promise still better things to come,
despite war and all its troubles.” —Advt. [2
* * * #
PIONEER WOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine,
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,0C0 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
and State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office.) —Advt.
* i * * •
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * #
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited (Works, Port Kembla,
N.S.W.), are buyers of all products containing gold,
silver and copper. The works are connected with
rail and sea. For tariff and all particulars apply to
the Manager, The Works, Port Kembla, N. S. Wales.
—Advt.
* * # *
The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte
Street, Brisbane (into which is merged the Queens-
land business of Arthur Leplastrier & Co.), has deter-
mined on a progressive policy and requires a few
southern engineering firms to represent.—Advt.
* * * *
The Australian Amicable Assurance Association
Ltd. —Premium Income Increases.—December, 1915,
over December, 1914, 289 p.c. January, 1916, over
January, 1915, 295 p.c. February, 1916, over
February, 1915, 335 p.c. The premium income for the
first three months of the present financial year was
greater than the premium income for the first seven
months of last year.—Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
.obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. —Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. - '
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging Co. No Liability.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend
(the twentieth) of 10 per cent., or
two shillings per share, amounting to £15,000,
has been declared, payable on April 22, 1916,
and for this purpose the Share Register will
be closed from April 15 to April 22
inclusive.
Dated at Hobart this 10th day of March,
1916.
By order of the Board,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
anything like £1 a ton. The co. has had
the benefit of war prices; what will happen
to the markets after the war no man can
tell, and men who ought to be equally good
judges make guesses almost as wide apart
as Heaven and Booligal. The most satis-
factory feature of the whole business is that
the ore broken during the half-year from
the bottom level has exceeded in value the
average grade sent to the mill: —
Lead, p.c. Silver, oz. Zinc, p.c.
1400 ft 15.8 9.2 13.6
Average .. •• 16 7.5 13
There are 600,000 shares, and a debenture
issue (included with the liabilities in the
comparison printed above) of £200,000.
* * * *
When the Kaiser broke loose the Tas-
manian Portland Cement Co. was just about
floating itself to start business at Ida Bay
(Tas.), where it has a mountain of lime-
stone, with shale, coal and timber handy, and
a deep-water port 3| miles away. Since
then it has been waiting and watching Tas-
mania import 13.000 tons of cement a year
and Australia make frantic efforts to produce
for itself the 150,000 tons or so of cement
it was importing from Germany and other
far-away places. Now it is getting so tired
of waiting that it has thrown out a line
to see if the State Government, which is a
pretty big user of cement, will be likely to
take the thing on. The Government isn’t
inclined to bite till after the general election,
anyway. The co.’s own idea if it can get
the money is to start at 30,000 tons per
year and duplicate as soon as possible.
Gwalia Central makes an offer “to present
shareholders only” of 30,000 7 p.c. cumula-
tive participating pref. shares of ss. each.
After the existing ordinary shares receive
10 p.c. in any year, which probably they
never will, the new pref. shares will be
entitled to participate equally with them
in any further profits. Originally the Trea-
sury was asked to permit the raising of
£15,000, but only with difficulty was authority
obtained to raise half that sum. According
to the prospectus, with this small sum “the
first units of the pumping and milling plants
can be effectively installed, crushing opera-
tions on a substantial scale may be carried
out and a pump erected to enable the rich
ore below water level to be developed.” The
report from the co.’s consulting engineer is
a most uncofivincing document and gives
neither his name nor his qualifications. A
report by an independent engineer is badly
needed, but The Bulletin is not at all
enthusiastic about the chances of getting a
favorable one.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie is getting ready to float the
New Boddington, Goongarrie. For some
weeks rich gold specimens have been ex-
hibited locally, and on the strength of these
a co. with 100.000 shares and a working
capital of £26,000 is being formed. Half
the share issue is collared by the vendor
syndicate and prospectors, who do not get
any cash, and the public is invited to rush
the balance. The show was merely a speci-
men one in the early days and then gave
out; and like the district it will probably
always be patchy.
* * * #
The last has not yet been heard of Tindals
(W.A.). When the plant was sold it was
considered that the show would not again
obtrude itself on public notice, but now it
is reported that the 40,000 tons of tailings
are to be cyanided for a start.
* * * *
Nullagine Gold Dredging Co. (W.A.)
presents a modest report for the half-year.
Despite delays in shipment and transport,
fair headway has been made in plant erec-
tion, and the production stage is expected
to be reached some time in June.
* * * *
Word comes from Marble Bar (W.A.) of
alluvial tin in a new locality. One Johan-
sen is reported to have unearthed a ton in a
week. Tin is fairly plentiful in this part,
but after the rich patches have been ex-
hausted heavy cost of transport paralyses
operations.
Associated Northern (W.A.) is now dip-
ping into its newly-acquired Slipper Gimlet
leases at Ora Banda for mill supplies. The
show is being linked by tram with the Vic-
torious mill, and wffien this connection has
been made the extraction of ore will be
steadily increased. The co.’s Victorious
lease is still off color at depth, while its
Kalgoorlie property just manages to keep
the undertaker at bay.
* * ‘ # #
Kalgurli (W.A.) has decided, on account
of decreased profits and increased taxation,
to pass the next quarterly div. The out-
look is still gloomy at depth, and the gen-
eral manager’s prediction of an early death
looks like being fulfilled. It is pitiful to
see the great telluride mines of Kalgoorlie
being skittled one after the other like this.
Apparently Edna May Battler (W.A.)
believes that it can walk without bothering
to learn to crawl. A second-hand battery
has been bought, and an attempt is to be
made by the co. to push itself into promi-
nence with as little delay as possible. Pre-
sent prospects do not warrant the erection
of a mill, and if some people thought less
about the market and more about the mine
the money now being spent on plant would
be laid out on development.
* * * *
From Westonia :—•
“Granite bars,” “unlimited water,” “serious
faulting” and “probable loss of sboot at depth”
having failed to knock out Edna Mays, the cry of
“creep” has been raised. A slight surface subsidence
has certainly occurred, but neither the mine nor the
plant is injured. Some people want to know why
the drive at the No. 4 level has not been extended
south. The official explanation is that, owing to bad
air on the level, it is imperative to have as few
men as possible working there. The No. 4 level is
opening up well and gives promise of turning out as
good as, if not better than, any other level in the
mine. There is no doubt that the development at
the 75ft. level of the Central is a good one, but the
ore body is not an Edna May. Deeps is deepen-
ing the hole in its ground as fast as possible, but
the rise in scrip is unaccountable. Consolidateds also
now stand at a price far ahead of developments.
Golden Points are quoted at 6s. buyer. On prospects
Cs. per cwt. would be nearer the mark.
* » * *
Homeward Bound and Bon Accord, Yack-
andandah (Vic.), once two distinct mines,
but now consolidated, are situated near the
happy hunting-ground of the John A. Wal-
lace dredges, now worked by the Briseis Co.
The Homeward Bound reef during the past
couple of years crushed about 5000 tons for
7dwt. free gold, ldw't. mineral value, and
3dwt. 2gr. from cyanide. The reef averages
over 10ft. in width, with several feet of
3dwt. free-gold quartz on the hanging-wall
side. The reef has been broken for 100 ft.,
but there is no telling how far north the
stone extends in profitable values. A new
manager, Edwin Rogers, was recently
appointed, and he immediately stopped the
battery and decided on some necessary devel-
opment work. The old regime carved out a
beautiful cathedral in the bowels of the
mountain. To fill it with mullock from the
walls could cost twice as much as to break
the reef, so the new manager has decided to
use golden quartz. The plant, which might
be improved, at present consists of 10
head of light stamps and a serviceable com-
pressor plant with steam power. The Bon
Accord is a higher-grade parallel reef, from
21ft. to 4ft. wide, and might be struck by
driving west a few hundred feet.
Maude Reef, Glen Wills (Vic.), is the
resurrected Maude and Homeward Bound,
of which little Pfaff was chairman for a
decade. It did little more than pay board
fees and-, office rent. When Dyason took the
show over, he dragged in more capital and
put A. S. Lilburne in charge. Lilburne
testifies to the Maude having 5000 tons of
high-grade dirt proved. And as the old co.
and the tributors worked the shoot 600 ft.
north of the big fault line, and as a winze
500 ft. away from the connection between
Nos. 3 and, 5 levels gave crush dirt for 50ft.,
he reckons on 25,000 tons lying north of the
break. The “probable” factor ahead remains
in the slab of ground south of the fault,
where the co. has driven the bottom level
for 70ft. in high-value dirt; and punching
into this ground will be done once the block
above the intermediate level is ready for
stoping. The working programme looks
ambitious, but seeing that 1255 tons crushed
last six months from development work
averaged loz. there is an incentive to hustle
up The co. expects to treat from 800 to
1000 tons monthly. Having water power
and tunnels to save hauling, future costs
should run at about 6dwt., which will be
cheap going for the mountains.
* * * •
Bendigo has been wonderfully fortunate in
the men it has made rich. Two-thirds of
them, instead of clearing out to other parts
and living on the proceeds of their punch,
have settled down handy, and come to the
rescue of the field when it wanted a lift.
Some of course have carried their public
spirit further than others. Dr. Hugh Boyd,
for instance, who died the other day, probably
left little except his good name; yet there
was a time when he was reputed to be worth
£lOO,OOO. He didn’t boast, but a few people
knew that he put back £SO,OOO, for which
he got no return. He was an idealist; if he
hadn’t been that he would never have made
the mistake of being a Freetrader.
Larut, the Sydney-owned Malayan tin
show run by the Prattens, shipped its
dredge by the Tasman the other day. Like
those of Tongkah Compound, Kampong
Kamunting (2), Deebook (2), Katoo Dee-
book, Banyong Valley, Ratrut and Annam
River, the Larut dredge was built by
Ruwolt’s in Melbourne. Ruwolt’s, who
started in a small way some years ago at
Wangaratta, now have large works at Rich-
mond (Vic.). They have built about 50
gold-and-tin-bucket dredges, and the Larut
is the firm’s most ambitious effort to date.
It embodies J. M. Newman’s recommenda-
tions for increased efficiency and tin
recovery, the principal ideas being increased
width of sluice-boxes and further treatment
of the screen over-size by disintegration in
a gravel pump, followed by re-treatment in
a second tier of sluice-boxes. The dredge
was erected in Ruwolt’s yard by M. G.
Baker, who helped to build and afterwards
ran the Tongkah Compound in its palmiest
days. Baker has gone with Newman and an
Australian staff to erect the dredge in
Malaya. The Melbourne tin-dredging men
who saw the dredge erected in Ruwolt’s yard
—Frank Tudor, Minister for Customs, was
also a visitor—are satisfied that it is not
necessary to repeat the action of the Tin
Bentong people in ordering a dredge from
U S.A. The Yanks have no tin-dredging in
their country, though they have largely
adopted and amplified the Maoriland-origi-
nated idea of bucket-dredging for gold.
* * * *
There has been quite a flutter over the
strike of copper at 1300 ft. in Mt. Lyell
Blocks (Tas.). From the North Lyell plans
it always looked as if the Blocks should have
got ore first at 1200 ft. in the south drive,
because the big North Lyell lens there bellies
out almost to the Blocks boundary, the shoot
at the north end showing far more aloofness.
The copper sulphides driven into by the
Blocks at 1300 ft. was 4 p.c. stuff; but when
galena began to predominate the market
funked and started to sell as sharply as it
had bought. However, the discovery has
upset the curve theory of the Lyell crowd,
who reckoned the Blocks could never get ore
because of the favoring country having rolled
back into North Lyell. As developments
stand, it isn’t a certainty that the shoot now
met is directly connected with the main North
Lyell northern shoot. It looks to be a sep-
arate lens. For that reason an eye should
be kept on the 1200 ft. drive.
* * * *
A 12oz. nugget, valued at £5l, has been
found close to the prospector’s claim at the
Dee Rush, between Mt. Morgan and Mt.
Usher (Q.). This was a good little field in
1903, but has since developed into an agri-
cultural district, and though the 12oz. may
lead to some more finds, the returns reaped
above the ground will prove more valuable
to Queensland in the long run than those from
underneath. Someday, though, something
sensational in the reefing line may be found
on the tableland. Struck Oil. was the most
promising show so far, and it commanded a
lot of Mt. Morgan cash; but its end was
tribulation and tears.
• • • *
“Verdad”: Besides the famous Cerro
de Potosi, dealt with in my recent par (B.
3()/12/’15), the Andes of S. America con-
tain another wonderful mining district. This
is the Chuquicamata, situated about 7000
feet above sea-level in the north of Chile,
quite near the Antofagasta-Bolivia Railway.
The mine is in an absolute desert, not a blade
of vegetation growing near it. A few miles
away is a river, and the valley is irrigated
and grows crops, but with this exception
the desert extends hundreds of miles. The
owners are the Guggenheimer crowd of
Yankeeland, and they have erected the first
unit (there are to be three) of the plant to treat
the copper ore. On the plans this unit treats
10,000 tons daily (no, I don’t mean 1000).
The ore is mined by steam shovels brought
from Panama, where they had been used on
the Canal. The ore is dumped into 60-ton
trucks, and carried a mile or so to the
works. There it is put through rock-
breakers, rolls, etc., and broken to about
the size of broad-beans. The ore is very
porous and is said not to need further crush-
ing to allow the leaching liquid to permeate.
Then it is dumped into square concrete
tanks, holding 10,000 tons each. There are
six of these and one is filled and one emp-
tied every day. Filling is done by travel-
ling belts, and emptying by a travelling
crane with an 8-ton grab-bucket. The
copper is leached out by a weak solution of
sulphuric acid, then electrolytically precipi-
tated and smelted into bars. As the ore
assays about 2 p.c. copper, this first unit
will produce 200 tons of copper daily, which
will have some influence on the market.
The difficulties and cost of bringing suffi-
cient sulphuric acid to start the works were
so great that a complete sulphuric-acid plant
was erected on the spot. This plant will
be scrapped as soon as the works start, as
the acid will be regenerated in sufficient
quantity to keep the process going. Pre-
sumably the works are going by now, but
I have no first-hand information on that
point.
* * * *
A Philadelphian mineral firm has been
inquiring in the West for tantalite. It
wants 60 p.c. stuff, and expresses its will-
ingness to. take several tons monthly from
Australia.
* * * *
Rand dividends for 1915 approximated
£7,167,561, or £455,875 below the 1914 total.
Decrease is explained by the fact that in the
latter year the Robinson and Ferreira dis-
tributed bonuses aggregating £520,000,
whereas in 1915 the only bonus paid was that
of £lOO,OOO by the Meyer and Charlton.
East Rand was responsible for £2,200,000,
or about 30 p.c. of the total divs. dis-
tributed.


Beerinsfs
Est. 1818.
Co
en
e/2
& its w
BRAfl^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
TO CURE DANDRUFF AND BALD-
NESS.
A REMARKABLE GUARANTEE.
To simply guarantee that a hair tonic
will do all that is claimed for it is one
thing—and very common. To back that
guarantee with a signed contract to refund
your money in case of dissatisfaction is
something entirely different, and almost
unknown; but when your own chemist is
the man that signs that contract you have
an experience that is new—without prece-
dent. Yet this is just the offer chemists
everywhere are making you to-day, and they
are able to make it because of the fact that
Lavona is a hair tonic which can be relied
upon to give satisfaction 99 times in a
hundred. This has been proven by actual
tests in thousands of cases. This offer is not
merely unusual —it is almost sensational,
and marks an epoch in the growth of fair
and square dealing between buyer and
seller. Your chemist sells you the tonic
because he believes it will give you the de-
sired results; if it fails you get your money
back. You take no risk —the contract signed
by your chemist protects you absolutely.'
No matter what your hair trouble may be —
dandruff, _ falling hair, short, dry, dull or
brittle hair or baldness —you can try Lavona
Hair Tonic under this binding guarantee of
satisfaction or money back.
The secret of the wonderful success of
Lavona Hair Tonic is doubtless found in
the fact that it is made from the world-
famous formula of 3oz. Bay Rum, |-dram
Menthol Crystals, and loz. Lavona de Com-
posee, which can be prepared by any chemist.
If, however, you wish to try it without risk-
ing a penny, you should ask for Lavona Hair
Tonic —the kind that’s guaranteed. —Adyt.
To Sydney Visitors
“ Clifford,” Macleay Street,
Potts Point.
BOARDING HOUSE REFINED HOME
Magnificent Harbor View and Grounds.
Swimming Baths, Tennis Court.
15 MINUTES FROM G.P.O.
PAULINE et CIE
(MILLINERY, ROBES, BLOUSES, Etc.)
ANNOUNCE :
Their First Show of Millinery Models for
Autumn and Winter Wear, on and auer
Wednesday, Ist March.
3rd Floor, Denison House, George S
opp. David Jones).
SINCE 1679.
SINCE
HAIG 4 HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, March 20, 1916.
My Dear Arini. —
The G.-G., now having a look at irriga-
tion at Wentworth, comes this way on
April 25. The household settles down at
Admiralty House for a while. Two gentle-
men-helps, Haskett-Smith and Kerr-Pearse,
will put their hyphens at the family’s dis-
posal.
Haskett-Smith, on the Federal Ex.’s staff,
is still convalescing from the damages he got
in the French war zone. He has to face
an operation later on. At first, of course, his
idea was to return to England for it; but
that was before he knew anything about
Australian surgeons.
A new top-dressing on the vice-regal tennis
courts in Macquarie-street is an item of
some interest. It means that Governor
Strickland has taken to the racquet. Offi-
cial papers now snatch occasional 40 winks
in a pigeon-hole while his Ex. flies round
the court at Parliament House. The other
players are usually Griffith, Ashford and
Harry Morton. Hitherto riding has been
the one relaxation our strictly-official Gov-
ernor has allowed himself. But he is taking
to tennis as seriously as he takes to the
higher mathematics.
Mr. Foxton (he was captain by courtesy
when he stood behind the Fergusons’ chair)
talks of going to England to enlist. Senator
Pearce will probably not oppose the exit,
though he is against Australians leaving
their pals on this side. The ex-Aide’s father
was in the Queensland militia, and repre-
sented the Deakin Government at the Im-
perial Conference which more or less settled
the form of our Navy. Foxton junior at-
tended the Macgregor in Queensland. When
Sir Frederick Blackwood hurriedly packed
up for the firing-line, the Australian took
his knife and fork at the G.-G.’s table. Now
he picks up his kit to do something for his
country at the Front.
James Edmond, The Burletin’s late
chief, tucked daughter Nina’s hand in his
arm and led her to church one day last
week. The ’groom (Captain A. C. Moyes)
and his second (Major Walker) were wait-
ing in St. Philip’s grey old pile as though
they expected somebody. Parson Belling-
ham then earned a fee. The bride, clad in
shell pink with the scalloped flounces of the
moment, got a stack of good wishes later at
the Wentworth. There Mrs. Edmond turned
a smiling face on the new son-in-law, and
Grandma Wilson also nodded her approval.
The new member of the family comes from
the Permanent Force in Queensland, and
goes to the Front forthwith.
The Cullen lady, a busy helpmate these
days, opened the Women Painters’ show in
the Education Palace galleries. The stan-
dard is higher than that of the last effort by
the petticoats ; but the weeds which struggle
through every hanging committee’s entangle-
ments may still be found by those who
search. An interesting exhibit, not for
sale, is from the brush of the late Nelle
Rodd, the gifted young illustrator of fairy
lore who died last year.
In the water-color section Alice Norton,
now transplanted to Westralia, shows some
virile sketches of the West. Annie Creagh
is best represented in a Blamire Youngish
effort, “Reflections at Pittwater.” A. lled-
ley Parsons smacks the paint on boats and
wharves in a convincing manner. Gladys
Owen is disappointing. She was precocious
as a student, but seems to have stuck fast —
in the watery landscape of “Coming Rain,”
for instance. Maud Russell supplies a deli-
cate vision of Otago Harbor. In oils Ethel
Stephens is at her best in “A Misty Morn-
ing,” Elizabeth Bay. There’s one husband,
at any rate, who has sufficient faith in his
wife to let her paint his portrait. The
result is a canvas by Amy Gill. Theo Cowan
is represented in the small sculpture section.
Revivals in art are as curious as resur-
rections in chiffons. Sydney owes something
of its early memories to the delicate pencil
work of the late John Rae. Then came a
gap when mere drawing went out of date.
Now a Sydney woman, Miss W. G. Elliott,
after pottering with poker work and similar
diversions, appears to have suddenly “found
herself” with the aid of a lead pencil. Her
sketch of the Museum from Hyde Park is
quite unique in its way and comes as a
surprise amongst its conventional surround-
ings at the Women Painters’ Exhibition.
Mrs. Walter Russell Hall 15ft over
£800,000; and as a Mount Morgan million
lately went to benevolence in one lump, most
of this smaller residue goes to relatives
and friends. The Kelso Kings are of course
remembered. The carefully-groomed Kelso,
who is one of the executors, gets £15,000;
Mrs. Kelso, being one of the Kirks, as Mrs.
Ilall was in an earlier generation, finds
£25,000 in her bowl; and the two King
girls come by £2OOO each. Legacies were
lavished on the men who had given “Walter”
their confidence and advice —£5000 apiece,
for instance, to doctor (Ivelty), and soli-
citor (McCulloch), and counsel (Adrian
Knox), and banker (Russell French). But,
just to show the Knoxes and the Frenches
that they weren’t the most important, six
thousand to the butler’s family.
The Women’s Club has been threshing out
a hardy annual whose crop never fails. Shall
mere male persons, if related to a member
and able to produce personal references, be
allowed to eat in the sacred precincts? The
older inhabitants fiercely contest the claims
of the newer progressives to bring along
husbands or somebody else’s brothers to feed
under the auspices of the Club. Neutrals
maintained that husbands, anyhow, are fid-
getty creatures where food is concerned, and
that one try might satisfy their alleged han-
kering to lunch in a shrine devoted to high
she-thinking. Ladies who oppose the entry
of the male boot still keep the flag flying.
An incurable cynic remarks that the New
Thought kiss, as seen from the stalls at
the I'ecent production of “The Victory,” con-
tributed to its successful run. The oscula-
tion, timed by the cynic’s wrist watch, ex-
ceeded by flsec. the Olga Nethersole stage
kiss which had held the record until now
hopelessly outdistanced.
Professor Tilley, the Australian w T hose
Institute for Languages was a students’
Mecca in Berlin, was, as you know, ruined
when war broke up Kultur. As he was an
art collector of note, his treasures were, of
course, seized by the gentle Iluns. Now a
daughter, Mabel, comes this way. She has
been staying on the Mountains with the
Peter Boards. Her father is still interned:
her mother fled to U.S.A. for shelter. Miss
Tilley is a niece of Mrs. Martin Donohoe and
Mrs. Clunies Ross.
Duncan McLachlan, who left the per-
manent headman’s chair in a N. S. Wales
Department to take command of the Com-
monwealth’s new Public Service, retired
lately, and last week migrated back to
Sydney and ease. He contemplates the
beautiful harbor from the Bradley’s Head
neighborhood.
Yachtsman Norman Murray and his wife
went off in the Makura for a trip to Eng-
land via Canada. In the days when Norman
was regarded as a confirmed bachelor he was
commodore of the R.S.Y.S. But the squad-
ron is mostly hugging Kirribilli nowadays.
One of the Buster Brown coiffure effects
at Manly is happily waning with the com-
ing of autumn. Partly as a new “smart”
craze, surfing damsels had their locks
cropped in the ’Murkan kiddie manner. A
stiff bow nodded on top of the mermaid’s
head when she got inside her best dinner
dress. The youthful widow Cameron . (who
used to be Enid Lindeman) sacrificed a
lovely golden mane to the Manly Buster
mania. She’s anxiously watching it grow
again on the long, uncertain voyage to
London.
The new Golden Fleece Free Kinder-
garten, in the backwoods of Chippendale,
has been rapidly rushed to a satisfactory
climax. It seems only the other week that
Minister Arthur Griffith adjusted his spec-
tacles to smack at the foundation slab. Now
the place is ready for the small fry. The
name, by the way, has a Jason-like flavor.
It’s intended as a “thank you kindly,” to
the woolgrowers who bulked well in the
subscription list. John Mackay voiced the
committee’s chorus of thanksgiving when
the Education Department’s political boss
opened the new home, which commands an
unrivalled view of an opposite terrace.
Dr. Asher, formerly of Lithgow, where
the mountain coal comes from, is now in
charge of a military hospital in Essex. His
only son Guy has been in khaki since the
beginning of the struggle.
The 3rd Battalion Comforts’ Fund Com-
mittee made a successful raid on its friends
the other afternoon. Forty of the returned
3rds lined up to welcome Colonel and Mrs.
Bob Owen at the Oxford-street depot. The
guests of honor were accompanied by a
nuAiber of little mountain devils (you know
the bush-satyr “heads” that grow in the
gullies?) dressed to kill. These sold like
hot buns. Mrs. Phil Street, Mrs. D. 11.
Souter and Miss Eadith Walker wore
amongst those who also ran. Gifts rolled
in for the boys in the tiring-line to the joy
of the hon. secs., Helen Souter and Helen
Barlow. Artist Souter, whose son is con-
valescing in England from his share of the
3rd’s damages, bustled in late in the after-
noon, while Mrs. Barlow was still rounding
up the musical items.
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Wood (Essie Jenyns),
of Newcastle, are living at Ladder Stile, in
Essex, for a while. They have just seen a
son into the Navy.
It really was a “pretty” wedding that
tripped up St. James’s aisle one evening
last week. The bride was Marjorie May,
only daughter of Hr. and Mrs. Humphries,
of Townsville. The groom is an only son
of the late station-owner Middleton, of the
woolly plains beyond Yass. Guests were
figged out in evening dress, with posies to
match the frocking. The pretty little bride
—she just reached her new husband’s
shoulder —was a vision in white tulle. A
sunset gleam of pink showed through the
frothy drapery, and a Honiton lace veil that
had gone with grandma to the altar fell
over the dainty maiden’s shoulders. Brides-
maids in rose pink tulle had their heads
buried in tulle caps set with tiny garlands
of pink buds. The groom thoughtfully pre-
sented his lovely little lady with a motor-
car and a diamond ring—both handy things
for any girl to have about the house. Nor-
man Flume —I fancy he belongs to the
explorer’s clan —supported the groom in his
pilgrimage.
The Motor Yacht Club grounds at Rose
Bay burst into bunting on Saturday after-
noon. The proceeds were for the Ist Bat-
talion Comforts Fund. The Cullen lady,
with Bernard Jones at her elbow (Mrs. Ber-
nard had a stall), made a progress through
the gaily-dressed lady pirates. The event of
the afternoon was the aquaplaning. This
means standing on a board with salt foam
swishing round your very wet legs while a
motor-launch tows you. Mary Patterson,
the girl aquaplaner, made a dashing figure
(what you could see of it for wavelets) in
Canadians.
Dr. Arthur met a minor Waterloo the
other afternoon. While he was strolling
around as general overseer at the French’s
Forest clearing a strenuous toiler who didn’t
know the name or fame of the weedy little
man with the cigar, suddenly boiled over.
“Look a-here,” said he. “I’ve noticed you
before, just walking about an’ that’s all.
If you can’t find a mattock I’ll go and get
you one—l’m sick of seein’ you here doin’
nothin’.”
One of the 30th Battalion toilers, Miss
Maud Riley, records over 500 visitors at
their recent gift evening. In consequence a
pyramid of tinned luxuries is ready for pack-
ing.
The Wattle Day League has just achieved
its annual report. Put together by the
literary hon. sec., Mrs. Kettlewell, it is
naturally compact and to the point. The
work of 1915 has been chiefly patriotic. A
big consignment of wattle, pressed and
packed by experts, was sent to the wounded
in Egyptian hospitals, and scores sent thanks
for the whiff of home. The planting of the
golden bloom on the graves of Gallipoli is the
League’s present problem.
Mrs. W. 11. Walcott, nowadays of War-
wick (Q.), is at Manly with her two young-
sters. She used to be one of the J. D. Sly
girls.
The Cullen lady’s mother and sister are
going on to England after their short spell
in Egypt, where they landed before the recent
banishment of Eve.
A. J. Sloane, a Jerilderie station-owner, is
now a proud driver in the British Field
Artillery. A good bushman, he’s likely to get
a move on the English gee-gees at the Front.
If some of the visions in evening dress or
other airy garments who ceaselessly “visit”
the wounded in hospital could be put on a
chain for a while, the tired “fed-up” warriors
might get some sound sleep. The authorities at
Randwick are putting a brake on the hordes
of fashionable chatterers who used to rush
the wards. But every rest-house for soldiers
needs guarding. An Australian officer, badly
damaged in Gallipoli, partly recorded his
feelings the other day concerning an airy
idler who roused him from his sleep one
evening. The dear creature had a cargo of
sticky sweets and cakes for him. “We’re
having a little concert for the men.” she
said ; “and I thought you’d like to be re-
membereo !” What he didn’t say was most
invigorating.
Harry Gullett’s lectures were simple and
sincere, with a thread of pessimism as to
the length of the war running through the
golden story of Anglo-French valor. Women
who know the devices of bush housekeeping
craned their necks to catch details of . the
ingenuity of Francois as cook-soldier and
general cleaner up of trench dugouts, and
then sat back to enjoy the thrill of a story
of the calm British Tommy warming his
stew while Inferno spat on u
of a slim sandbag. The Austmliam IPr si(i( *
flow of descriptive remarks are
by remarkably tine pictures Tim r ked U P
swank has, however, made too hi„ ei ' man ' s
among Harry Gullett’s notes an |
that tire days of cavalry a ?e ovt 1S fears
sibly premature. ovei ar e m-
Who are going to wear the new 4„*
hats? I mean the winged tomml £ tumn
duplicates of the headfear in are
Valkyrie shriek of Valhalla. Wsh\ the
toques will go (if someone has the r these
to do the block as Brynhifde) th°r agf ‘
tubby coats Under the coats are the vuf
fur-edged skirts. Inside all this
be the woman. ? eai will
Just a year ago the Liedertafo) t
the Apollos) gave a sing-song ud S'T- 0W
pool Camp, and one of its members losfhT
golden lyre, the insignia of IT hls
ship of the Society. The other* 61 ? 11 "
n turned up. It had been found after
concert by a soldier who left for ti»L- he
parts before he could return the bauhle U ' g
carried through many months of LT
escapes on Gallipoli, and traveller) h V
again per hospital ship, still
the finder, who first chance returned til
mascot to its owner. d the
Mosman’s latest acquisition is an „„
ploded Turkish shell (minus the charge 5
course) mai ed this way by Ungadie
General Ryrie, who is M.H R f o f t J
Northern water suburbs. The’ tronhv •
to decorate the front porch of the red riled
Town Hall for ever and ever Amen. Th
suburb is also expecting another souvenir
from The Dards,” a live one this in the
shape of a bear, which Director L e LZ
will accept for the new Zoo that he takes
care of.
Another great experiment bursts through
the war-clouds, \ictoria is going to take
timid step forward by employing women t J
clean railway carriages; and we may follow
smt. As woman is more or less accompanied
through life by a broom, she ought to be
able to flick a duster around smutty train
upholstery. In fact, women are even driv
ing tramcars in Glasgow, and the civic
authorities record no rise in the death-rate
On Friday, at Sargent’s. Mrs. Callaway
will be fed and farewelled by the Progressive
Women and Ruth Beale’s W.C.P.A. crowd.
Mrs. Callaw’ay has done a power o’ talking
for many bodies, notably the Lib. Ass and
the Commonwealth Patriotic Ass., and she’ll
be much missed here when she goes to control
a cable hospice in Queensland next month.
Mrs. Gordon Wesche has been heard of
from Agra, in India, where she was inquir-
ing into Red Cross work and visiting hos-
pitals. By this date and day she would be
breathing the same island air as Prime Min-
ister Hughes.
At the foot of one of their stairways
Anthony Horderns have emblazoned the
names of their employees who have gone to
battle for race and country. Well over ?00
names are on the polished tablet.
From a girl with an understanding:—
At last the “Made in Australia” silk-footed stock-
ing ! Patriotism and sleekly-clad ankles can now
keep bravely in step. Women of the lean purse,
who couldn’t afford silk “all the way up,” in the
pre-war days wore the smartly got-up (and, alas,
terribly perishable) hose of German manufacture.
After Belgium, as one woman we wore the Ameri-
can-made article, because there seemed to be nothing
else on the market. But now you can buy half-silk
covering for your lower members. Price? Well, a
few pence dearer, but you don’t mind that when
it’s to help a new home industry. But all the
shops don't stock the new line. On Saturday on
meekly inquiring from a serving goddess for the
Australian article I was freezingly told: “We have
no ‘made in Australia’ stockings.” But I suppose
it was my own fault. I shouldn’t have been
meek about it; I should have been proud and con-
fident.
Our City Council is, in some respects, as
swift as a snail, and nearly as intelligent.
For instance, preferring a non-paying organ
recital to a mixed concert with agood audi-
ence, it turns down every proposal to blend
any other music with its organ blast. Just
now musicians are having a mighty hard
row to hoe. They gave their services to
every patriotic concert in 1915. The bulk
of these were in the Town Hall, and the
city pocketed £2OOO of rental. The hard-up
profession could now earn modest fees by
appearing at the regular civic organ-blasts
under a concert manager. But the stubborn
aldermen stick to their dreary point —organ
only. So the cane chairs, which form the
majority of those present, don’t even get
dusted by the public person.
One of the signs of the times is a Flying
Corps committee of lady bushrangers. Lad}
Helen M. Ferguson is booked to open a
show on April 27 for the birdmen’s benefit.
One of the earthy battalions —I think the
29th—is to get some of the cash. l‘ ie
grounds of Ascham, at Edgecliff, are to be
the leafy stadium.
Yours affectionately,
VANDOKIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD
VICE-REGAL
jewellers
by appointment.
Green Tourmaline and
Pearl Drop Necklet,
in Case, with Gold
Chain
£4 10 0
DROP NECKLETS
IN NEW AND EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS.
The Company has a very choice
selection of Diamond and Gem Set
Ornaments, the highest quality
gems only being used. Mounted
in platinum and gold.
/
/
Diamond Diop Necklet,
in Case, set entirely
in Platinum, with
Platinum Chain
£l3 0 0
A COPY OF OUR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE ON
APPLICATION.
Pearl and Diamond
Drop Necklet, in Case,
set entirely in Plat-
inum, with Platinum
Chain
€24 0 0
SHOWROOMS-
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
FASHIONABLE
being an Imperial necessity, the
use of British Avon Tyres becomes
a patriotic duty. . .
C. The claim that Avon Tyres show
lowest cost per mile rests upon dis-
interested records of actual service,
open to investigation. It is further
supported by their exclusive
use on the 3,000 vehicles of the
world’s biggest taxicab Company.
%
ymb o l s of
ndurance t
AGENTS;
N. J. Howes & Co.
212 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
mj
r\Ti
eia
§ES
i/s
' \a^
Guarantee with
pair will not
nor break, nor
every
rust,
tear.
carrier’s
ffust-Proof
Corset-
COMFORTABLE
INEXPENSIVE
ffianierj (onsets
[i
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 9th March, 1910.
Appointment of Boilermaker and Ship-
wright to Proceed to England to
Undergo Course of Instruction in
Submarine Building.
Applications are invited from per-
sons qualified and desirous of proceed-
ing to England to undergo a course of
instruction in Submarine Building, «for a
period not exceeding Two Years.
2. The following craftsmen are required,
and the qualifications for appointment are as
shown :
Position. Qualifications.
1 Boilermaker. Thorough knowledge of
modern shipbuilding, both
theoretical and practical.
1 Shipwright. Thorough knowledge of
modern shipbuilding, both
theoretical and practical,
and also mould loft ex-
perience.
3. Annlieants must be Australian born or
permanently domiciled in Australia, and
should not have passed their thirtieth birth-
day.
4. Salary (minimum) £250 per annum. A
separation allowance of £1 per week will be
paid to families of married Officers selected.
5. Selected candidates will be required t,o
enter into an undertaking to serve the Com-
monwealth Government for a period of at
least five years after their return to Aus-
tralia.
0. Applications, accompanied by copies of
testimonials and evidence as to age, should be
forwarded to the Naval Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Navy, Melbourne, so as to reach
him not later than 27th March, 1916.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
If any illustration appearing in 'ihe
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring ana
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Branches in all parts of the world.


Shirts that Satisfy
The distinctive character of the “Farmer”
Shirt is thoroughly understood by all correct
dressers. Not alone in the lighter Summer
materials is this distinctiveness shown, but,
as will be seen in the Crimean material
shown in this illustration, it can be disposed
by experts into warmer Winter Shirts. The
material is of a very soft finish, and is made
up in all sizes.
This Shirt can be worn with linen collar,
as depicted, or with soft white collar.
PRICES
10/6; 3 for 30/-
12/6; 3 for 36/-
Carriage Paid.
FARMER'S,
Pittj Market &
George Streets,
SYDNEY
& ■ ■
FARMER’S
SYDNEY
1840-1916.
Seventy-six
Yeo-rs.
No.
RR
P.
“An Idea in
Gage Hats/*
[1
TteMWWII
m®®E® msßfiißß
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to o'"
pense with buttons, hooks, ai
eyes and press-studs in men s ant
women’s garments. One simp
movement and the garment
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tem-
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible, ;
Ask to see it at your drapers
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, (AustralaBia) ’
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, March 20, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Federal Government House was stormed
last Saturday afternoon by people who were
willing to “splash ten boh” to “get into
society.” The grim fact that there, were pro-
gramme-sellers and so forth waiting every-
where didn’t stop them at the gates; the
French Red Cross was to benefit and the
mock-turtle aristocracy was being dumped
by the motor-load ready for inspection; so
the rank outsiders galloped up the drive
cheerfully shrieking their comments.
The best fresh-air event was George Mar-
low’s Shakspearian showpeople in the Forest
scenes from “As You Like It,” played in the
native shrubbery at the far end of the lawn
amongst young gum saplings. They had a
semi-circle of grass for stage and a large
horseshoe of (Lord forgive us!) Vienna
chairs for the enraptured audience. I am
glad to say there were so many people eager
to improve their minds that a lot of them
had to stand in their Australian boots. The
pretty show was billed for 2.30, but a crowd
of the nobility got there early and sat them-
selves in the front rows. Stout dames, arriv-
ing up to time but still too late, looked
anxiously at the grass, thought of their cor-
sets, shuddered and started to fume and rage
at the wall of dresses and hats in front. The
sun was scorching hot, but the dames were
hotter after running and losing their tem-
pers. Dr. Crevelli hovered on the outskirts
of the crowd mopping his perspiring brow
and probably reflecting that though his wife
was organiser a husband is the one person
who cannot expect to have a seat found for
him on such an occasion.
Presently the vice-regal house-party turned
up. Lady Helen, in brilliant purple silk, had
the two small Blackwood children with her
and a small size in Genthelps doing skir-
mishing duty. Doris Blackwood was a pic-
ture in blue muslin. When the group reached
the circle there were no seats for them.
Minions dashed to and fro and chairs were
wrested with whispers from importunate
dames on the outskirts and set fairly in the
centre-front. Some forgetful footman or
hashdeacon had neglected to red-rope the
seats of vice-royalty, and I think I heard the
shrieks of him as he was being boiled later
in the afternoon. When all was
ready Lady Helen took the grassy
stage and made a speech while the small
Genthelp, playing the part of a well-trained
dog, kept an unblinking eye on her vacant
chair. The play was doubtless very fine.
Drooping outsiders like myself saw Robin
Hood greens and browns in the distance,
and heard strident voices barking. The set-
ting was sweetly picturesque, but the acous-
tics of the open-air theatre were all wrong
for a big audience.
Latecomers got on the wrong path and
wandered into the players’ reserve. A
dejected dressing tent crouched like a faded
camel in a corner, and the posing characters
were continually being photographed at off-
moments. A good orchestra supplied pas-
toral music, while tantalised customers who
could neither see well nor hear decently wan-
dered off to the house in search of the next-
best thing. Napoleon Boffard had arranged
a concert in the state drawing-room and
rushed about beating his brow because of the
wilfulness of “these artists.” His idea was
to have the Shakspearian matin€e on the
terrace close to the drawing-room concert
“all compact” ; but the Shakspearians would
have the distant gum saplings, and, as the
scenery couldn’t be shifted, they must needs
go to it.
The Madden dame was on hand in black
clothes and a purple bonnet, and daughter
Lesly wore her most Rule Britannia mood
with a flowing cape-coat of black moire and
a spreading pleated skirt. Mrs. Leslie
Stuart’s military style of helmet made her
conspicuous in the crowd, and Mrs. Cre-
velli wore sparrow-brown, while the Hen-
nessy dame was in brown and blue. Mrs.
George and Mrs. Fried Fairbairn both wore
hlack. A brilliant patch of dresses included
Mrs. Edward Miller, Mrs. Landale, Mrs.
Hodges, Mrs. Emmerton, the Mackinnon and
Allen dames, and Mrs. Orme Masson. The
Mount Schank Clarkes also showed some fine
duds. Young Mrs. Lloyd, wife of the new
Colonel, wore a simple check gingham frock
and blushed her thanks for congratulations.
After the matinee Belgian Goossens sang
the Hindoo song of Bemberg’s.
Mrs. Artand, Mrs. Hommery and a flock
of French girls helped Mrs. Crevelli to reap
the harvest of cash, and Faulkiner Smith
directed the entertainments.
Before he left Dr. Springthorpe had a
heart-to-heart talk with the honorary vege-
table women at the Overseas Club. These
workers have been steadily sending bottled,
canned and pressed vegetables to the fighting
men, and the medical colonel cheered them
immensely by telling them why their particu-
lar work was so valuable, and urging them
to keep it up. Some of the stuff regularly
on the Victorian market reached Egypt now
and then, and was voted magnificent by men
and doctors alike; and he couldn’t under-
stand why Australia wasn’t doing an
immense trade that way in local stuff. The
Anzacs alone, he estimated, spent £3OOO a
week at the army canteens extras were
sold. Like good Australians, the men ask for
Australian goods every time. Australian
beer, too —Springthorpe begged for some of
this, so that the men may not be dependent
on the vile stuff sold in Cairo. Now, which
of our matrons will take charge of this
comfort?
And listen to this from the man who
knows: —■
Conoentrate on the fighting man. The Red Cross
has half a million of money in hand and is doing
well. But it only looks after the “officially” sick.
The R.C. rule, however, is that a man is not “officially”
sick until he is in hospital. A man in the trenches
and among the fighting men may be the sickest man
in the world; but if he is not “officially” sick he is
not under the Red Cross.
Women here, anxious to help, should get sug-
gestions from headquarters as to the best
things to send and when to send them. It
was wearying for men to receive electric-fans
in winter and cholera belts in summer. They
should prepare some months ahead for needs
to come. To do this they should keep in
touch with Mr. Budden, the Citizens’ War
Chest Commissioner in Egypt, who would
advise (if asked) how best their money
could be laid out.
An extremely respectable matron, who is
also rich beyond the dreams of bookmakers,
started, in conjunction with her daughter,
a City Rest Club for soldiers. The Club was
well conducted and was such a success that
the loaned club-room couldn’t hold all the
patrons. The ladies in charge and a few
friends then decided to try to get a larger
room and pay for it out of their own pockets.
But though they have inquired at numerous
city buildings the negotiations invariably
collapse when soldiers are mentioned. The
patronesses now want to know whether
Bruce Smith will come over and talk to the
Fat Landlords about their injurious differen-
tiation against the men who are in khaki to
save the Empire.
Terang having led the way with a success-
ful Red Cross shop, where the Western Dis-
trict has long had an opportunity of spend-
ing a bit for the good cause, similar
depots have sprung up in various parts. One
is at Oakleigh, opening on two days a week.
Albert Rowlands, who has seen Oakleigh
grow up, gives the shop and lights it, and
the clear income averages 30s. a day. Another
was opened at Geelong last month, with Mrs.
Goldenburg, of Beachmount, in charge of the
till, and a solid Skene-street committee
behind her.
The Mayoress and her legions of she-
workers are praying that the weather will be
good on the 24th, the Patriotic Button Day.
The Mayoress’s Fund, you know, is not to be
confused with funds for the sick and
wounded. Hers is dedicated to the service
of well and strong boys in the trenches. For
such as are in Egypt, waiting for the foe
who doesn’t arrive, it is much in the nature
of a Keep-’em-out-of-mischief Fund. It pro-
vides cricket utensils, draughts-boards, etc.,
in addition to all sorts of creature comforts.
In fact, the unwritten motto of the Mayor-
ess’s Button movement is “Be a Sport.” She
made a good start by getting Andrew Chirn-
side’s promise of £5OO for the first button of
the series. The squattah in question comes
under the heading of “dear old sport” in the
Best Woman circles, and if they can squeeze
£5OO out of him for the next little bauble
on the Patriotic list he’ll be nothing short of
a real darling.
The Button Fund has wheeled in an aver-
age of £BOOO a month to the Red Cross and
other funds. Mrs. Woolcott, who has acted
as secretary ever since the start, deserves
half of the three cheers that are due.
From the Adelaide front:—
The Peace Day League took possession ot the
streets on Friday and collected funds for the erection
of a home for disabled soldiers, winding up opera-
tions with about £6OO in hand. Incidentally, Mayor
Isaacs has thrown aside the rabbit-skin and decreed
that in future the number of street collections must
be limited to one a month. It seems a pity that the
same restriction cannot be applied to the birth of
patriotic societies and funds.
The six o’clock pub-closing experiment begins at
the end of the month. The brutes will then start to
keep it on the sideboard.
J. W. McGregor, who is one of the intellectual
Samsons of the committee of the Wounded Soldiers’
Fund, has booked his passage to England. But be of
good cheer! We’ll have him back again inside five
months.
Professor Mitchell, who steps into Judge Murray’s
regalia as Vice-Chancellor of the University, came to
the local chair of Philosophy 22 years ago, when he
hadn’t gone far into his thirties. He was born in
Scotland. Men who have the luck to be born in
Scotland go where they like and become all sorts of
beautiful things in full uniform with a brass band in
attendance.
The Talbot Smiths’ other son, Donald, who was
invalided to England from Gallipoli, is on his way
back to Egypt. The older boy was the first officer
reported killed at the landing.
After some deliberation the Coursing Club has
decided to continue. But it has expressed the pious
hope that the hare will be harried to death for the
Red Cross and similar societies.
Lieut. Denny, our only Parliamentary warrior, has
decided that his talking stipend shall go to the
patriotic funds while he is at the Front.
Three Germans have been hoisted out of the civil
service within the last few weeks. Apparently they
had to express their sentiments —and they were the
wrong sentiments.
Ron Cumming, who enlisted a few months
ago, is now a lieutenant and orderly-officer to
Lieut.-Colonel McNicoll, and looking hope-
fully forward to an early embarkment. Mrs.
Ronald (she used to be Maida Henty) has
gone back to live with mamma. No, not an
estrangement. An arrangement —a very fre-
quent and comfortable one in these days of
warring husbands and chickenish grass
widows.
Norman McArthur, who uses a lot of petrol
while carrying medical consolation to the
dowagers of Toorak, has a utilitarian streak.
For years he saved up his petrol cases, in-
stead of selling them to the jam factory for
a trifle, and has lately used them to build a
smoking-room at his bush home in the hills
above Beaconsfield. The other day Dr.
McArthur introduced the cases to as much of
the Medical Society of Victoria as had been
able to come up by car from the city ; and
the assemblage gave three cheers and then
started on the lunch. The picnic was part of
a series of welcomes which the meds. of Mel-
bourne have been giving John Springthorpe
and George Syme, both colonels in the
A.A.M.C., recently returned from duty in
Egypt.
F. E. Lee, of the Closer Settlement Board,
has tried on his khaki. Lee successfully
faced a bomb in a postage package some time
ago during his everyday work, so he J has his
nerve in training. His wife is the plump,
fair daughter of the late Allan McLean, who
was once half a Prime Minister.
Smith-Dorrien, a general greatly beloved
by the Tommies, is a very sick man at
present. Millionaire Abe Bailey has him
recuperating in his home outside Capetown.
War-lecturer Coleman, who was with the dis-
tinguished soldier during the retreat from
Mons, had a short yarn with him as he
passed through Capetown.
In arranging for the loan of Brigadier-
General Sellheim (now in Egypt), Australia
is only getting its own back again. Sell-
heim is an Australian of the second genera-
tion. His maternal grandfather, Colonel
Morisset, arrived at Sydney in charge of
British troops in the very early days. This
officer’s daughter was born in Australia and
in time became the mother of our soldier.
Morisset, a pretty little place at the foot of
the hills near Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.),
was named after his grandfather. Some
years ago Sellheim was on the staff of Smith-
Dorrien, at Quetta, in India. The com-
mander, who afterwards earned fame during
the long retreat from Mons, was always devis-
ing schemes of defence against surprise
attacks by the frontier hordes, who love
fighting and murder, and can steal up as
silently as smoke. Rehearsals for the ex-
pected entertainment were always in pro-
gress. And, after all, the enemy Smith-
Dorrien eluded so brilliantly was the loudest
and most obvious fighter in the world.
Mrs. Sellheim (formerly Miss Howell-
Griffiths) waits in Australia for her soldier-
husband. She is of Welsh extraction, and
is one of three handsome, black-haired, black-
eyed girls, the other two being in England.
Dr. Springthorpe took himself and his
monocle back to Patagonia last Wednesday.
He did a tremendous amount of work and
talk while he was in Melbourne, and, inci-
dentally, found time to marry Miss Daisy
Johnstone the day before he sailed.
Charles Atkins, one of the few live mem-
bers of the City Council, acquired a daughter-
in-law on Thursday, when Vera Clendinnen,
of the Hawksburn family, took young Ernie
and keeps him as her lawful-wedded husband.
The larceny happened at the Church of Eng-
land Grammar School Chapel, and food and
oratory were dispensed at the Clendinnen
roof-tree.
From “Rosna’s” matrimonial-paragraph
agency:—
Two daughters of Baronet Nivison—he who juggles
with loans for the Australian Governments—have been
engaging attention lately. Mabel, the youngest
maiden, has just been tied to Lieut. Arthur Owen, of
the East Surreys; and her sister Florence will have
collaborated with Lieut. George Mackay, Queen Vic-
toria Rifles, Zeppelins permitting, before this
reaches you and the printer.
Lady Dorothy Bligh, daughter of the Darnleys, is
also waiting till the Commander-in-Chief isn’t looking,
so that Lieut. Peploe, 20th Hussars, can run over
from France and help her cut the wedding-cake.
A grandson of the David McConnel and Henry
Jordan clans of Bananaland, whose present style is
Sub.-Lieut. Frederic Jordan McConnel, R.N.A.S., was
married in London lately. His bride is a jolly r v
fornian girl, Grace Hood Wikon. J y U
Yet another military wedding was of most *
to Lieut. Hugh Guyon Fry, R. E „ son of te l
Robert Fry, of Auckland, and Freda Joyce F,l]W
of Ealing, the suburb where retired Anglo-Indians J
sport° W 16(1 gera " iumS a " d enga S e in similar violent
And if you come this far I’ll tell you that n
mander J. G. Walsh, of H.M.A.S. Australia who T
son of the Archdeacon of Dublin, has en°4» P ri n 1
self to Miss Edith Curran, of Hobart; while G p
Sale, son of Professor Sale, who used to heln'th
Maori Isles up the giddy peaks of learning l „
married Miss Mary Jean Robinson, of West Hartle
Rumor has it that we are threatened with
something exciting in the way 0 f a breach
of-promise action. She is on the stage and
he the owner of many acres. I dare not ho
less mysterious.
Nice girls are slyly reading one another
letters from the trenches, written by utter
strangers they lightly call their “billy bovs”
Every tan-colored can carried a little note
concealed in its plum pudding. I n one case
the Long Arm meanly reached into a trench
and handed a soldier sweetheart a random
letter from the girl he left behind him
Then the pot was put on to boil.
Sam Leon, K.C., has put pretty daughter
Ethel into the drug business. She is a quali-
fied dispenser and can compound a poultice or
Epsomise half a pound of Yan Yean with
the best of ’em. Brother Howard is also
in the medicine business—a step farther up
He is a captain in the A.A.M.C., lately
returned from Egypt and now at Leo’ngatha
examining recruits and prescribing for a
newly-arrived Leongranddaughter.
The Mackennal brothers, of whom Ber-
tram the sculptor is the best-known outside
his home city of Melbourne, are now living
in three separate continents—Bertram,
sculping in Europe at the old stand; Eric iii
the U.S., in a well-paid job with the Great
Western Electric Co. at ’Frisco; and Horace
at home —very much at home as Victorian
director, of works for the Home Affairs
Department.
Visitors trundling home from Apple Island
wanderings say that social Hobart was gal-
vanised by the dash and fascination of a
visiting widow. Women who missed their
husbands or sweethearts would find them
carefully shepherding the enchantress.
Her manners were demure, her dress ex-
pensive and in perfect taste, but she was a
pirate, all the same. And who do you think
she was? A barmaid from another State!
That’s how some of the naughty boys knew
her so well.
On Sunday, March 12, many old friends
called on It. S. Smythe at his Deepdene
house to tell . him how glad they were he
was only a boy of 83. They found him in
excellent health, and, as usual, full of anec-
dote. It.S. arrived in Melbourne in August,
’55, and spent eight years on the press in
Victoria, S. Australia and N. S. Wales. It
is exactly 40 years ago since he represented
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisban* and Auck-
land (M.L.) newspapers at the Philadelphia
Exhibition.
The Austral Salon has started the social
engine again after a dispersal for the dog
days. The annual general meeting lateb
occurred with much pomp and ceremony and
tea, with the Madden dame in the chair,
surrounded by some of our best corsets.
The gayest item of St. Patrick’s Day was
a fleeting vision of Maloney, M.L.A., driving
briskly through the sunshine of town with a
green flag and a golden harp of Erin flutter-
ing at the nose of his motor. He had con-
siderately left off his red tie for the day. In
the wake of Maloney came the Celtic Club
in high silk hats on the roof of a four-in-
hand. Their frock-coats were buttoned
tightly over generous front-curves, and stuffed
hampers with bottle-heads peeping out were
strapped aft.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson is due home by the
Niagara, which will also bring Melba from
Honolulu. Mrs. Williamson says the two
younger Castles girls—Dolly and Eileen— are
amongst the greenbacks, and that big sister
Amy is booked up for a U.S. tour.
People in Melbourne do buy pictures these
times, though they pause at high prices.
Last November Mrs. Walter Withers opened
a show of daughter Margery’s paintings, sup-
plemented by a fine collection of her late
husband’s work. The show was billed for a
fortnight, but ran nearly four months with
good sales trotting alongside.
Does this throw any light on a strange
yet familiar word? A number of Wallaby
Clubmen were on a walking tour lately
when they became aware of two critical
bush boys on a fence. “Who's them
blokes?” queried the smaller of the pair.
“Them’s not blokes!” said the other, “them s
old men.”
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


M
/
r
V '
if
- s
& ■•'
: .
\N
vs
v\
«
V
Commanc/pt> - in * C hif>/
of the Russian Army*
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing" of Grand Duke Nicholas, Ccmmander-m-Chief of the
Russian Army, is one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely free
from advertising, are suitable for framing. 'Sfr e will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt of 66. in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD,, Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
wH


FOR COOLNESS SAKE
Wear garments that in actual wear verify all that
we claim in the dependable and acceptable qualities
of the
VENTILACE
UNDERWEAR.
Your display of energy in hot weather depends upon
the comfort and coolness of the garments you wear.
We offer you the ideal in the Ventilace Underwear,
which is made in cotton with a strong open mesh,
permitting ventilation and the maximum of comfort.
Here’s truly wonderful value.
SINGLETS OR
KNICKERS,
2/9
POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS.
CHAS. LANE & CO. pty. ltd.
The Mail Order
House for Men,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
I
G
THE
y w n; I
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Barcoo”: The tree kangaroo—the pretti-
est, most interesting and least often seen
animal of Northern Australia—has his home princi-
pally around the eastern shores of the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. His special haunts are the almost inac-
cessible scrubs and heights. He is a comical stick,
with his greyish, fur-covered body and coal-black
paws and face. Twenty-two inches from the top of
the head to the source of the tail would be the
measure of a very large specimen. The tail, which
would flow to about 23 inches, is roughly covered
with hair, and is of practically equal thickness—
it does not taper. It is erroneously said by some
writers that this animal climbs only low and leaning
trees. As a matter of fact, they particularly affect
the very tallest tree of their scrubby homes. The
fore and hind limbs are almost uniform in size, and
each paw is supplied with three claw-like toes. The
job of climbing is done very clumsily, from which
I conclude that the clambering propensity is a com-
paratively modern accomplishment, learnt probably
from bitter experience of the hunting depredations
of dingo and Bir.ghi.
MOVE ON THERE: A SUGGESTION.
The police dog might be instituted to accompany solitary ladies in their walks as a pro-
tection against the attentions of gentlemen who stay at home in war time.
“Coolibah”: “Merrigal’s” description of
the Flindersia of the West seems to indicate that it
is identical with the small-leafed Flindersia leopard-
tree, or as the coastal bullocky has it, “Flindozy,”
except that on the coast it is purely a scrub tree.
It is a thing of beauty as well as of great utility,
with its straight, symmetrical trunk, its dense, dark-
green foliage and, in early spring, the small white
bloom that in its profusion makes the canopy an
immense snowball. Strange that it has not found
more favor as an ornament in our parks and
gardens. Like many another good Australian, it has
had to stand aside for imported mediocrities. Though
never a very big tree, like the large-leafed FUn-
der sia which runs to thousands of superficial feet, it
sometimes attains a girth of about 60 inches, and is
much in demand for cooperage work, carriage-build-
ing and a variety of general purposes. I once saw
a Helidon scrub selector “running out” strips of
the timber for roof battens with a paling throw.
These were 20ft. long, and cocky seemed to have
little difficulty in splitting them out to a thickness
of about ljin. the full length.
* * • * *
“Nym”: When the drought broke last
year a freshet passed, down a street in Rochester
(Vic.), and after the flooded Campaspe had subsided
water remained in a depression in the street. Recently
it dried up, disclosing, after several months, hun-
dreds of fine native fish up to fib. in weight. Over
400 \yere transferred to a handy river by a Samaritan
who occasionally wets a line. The irrigation chan-
nels’ teem with fish from the big Goulburn Weir
and Waranga Basin; yet fresh fish is hardly ever
on the inland dinner-tables of Victoria. At Bd. per
lb. live weight fish-raising should knock poultry-
raising Zeppelin high.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: The white feather is not a sign
of cowardice in New Guinea. In certain villages
the native wears one for each man he has killed and
cooked. Brown brother learns a lot about cookery
that way. One of his methods of preparing lunch is
to pounce on his victim, half-throttle him,
force him backwards over a log and break his
legs. He then proceeds to cut slices off non-vital
parts of the menu (N.G. cooks have a devilish know-
ledge of where bloodvessels and great nerves lie) and
grill them on a stick before the original owner.
Marea, of the Purari Delta, aged about 17, man-
dated to the hospital for domestic duties, was a first-
class murderer. Naturally he was the best cook I
ever had. “Marea,” I said, “true you have been
kai-kai [eat] man?” “Flenty,” murmured Marea
like a cooing pigeon. Some of the fiercest inter-
tribal fights in New Guinea have raged between
villages as to whether shinbones should be roasted or
boiled.
* * * *
“Nivel”: Can any naturalist explain the
manner in which a large fleck of birds (say star-
lings), while in the air, will execute complicated
manoeuvres as though actuated by one common
impulse? They wheel, and turn, and rise, and
descend, and spread their ranks and close them with
the most perfect unanimity. Suddenly the flock will
break up into detachments, each of which for a
time will perform divers evolutions quite indepen-
dently of the rest. Then with equal suddenness all
these small bands will reform into a single body.
How are all these movements directed? Does one of
the birds act as leader? If so, how does he com-
municate his orders to his army ? It cannot be by
sound, for that takes time to travel, and the outlying
members of a large flock act absolutely in concert
with those in the centre. Do all the. birds watch
the movements of their guide, and alter their own
in accordance with his? If so, how account for the
frequent breaking up of the flock into companies,
and the subsequent re-amalgamation of those com-
panies into a common body? Is it wireless tele-
graphy ?
REFERRED TO HEADQUARTERS.
MA (entering inopportunely): “Indeed, John Henry Wilkins, and may I ask what your
intentions are towards my daughter?”
JOHN HENRY: “I dunno—ask HER!”
“Bad Australian”: Any other truthful
person ever seen freshwater cod and eels in the
same river, creek or billabong? Back in the ’nine-
ties I was camped on the Bunya Creek (Q.), and in
a couple of hours’ fishing I bagged two cod, 101 b.
and 31b. respectively, a 31b. eel, five catfish and
three “turtles.” I also saw shoals of fresh-water
mullet, but they, as usual, were not taking any; and,
as we hadn't any binghies or dynamite in camp, mullet
were not on our menu on that occasion. Until my
experience on the Bunya satisfied me that cod and
eels do occasionally play in the same backyard, I
was a firm, not to say fanatical, believer in the
old Southern superstition that they simply couldn’t
live like that.
* * * »
“Kilfane” : Somebody was asking what a
“drip-safe” is. It is made of canvas or hessian, and
has a tray on top containing water which is allowed
to drip down the sides and so keep them wet. I
heard it called a drip-safe in Wagga (N.S.W.). In
Broken Hill it is known as a “freezer” and a
“cooler.” The cooler is a godsend to the person
who cannot afford to run an ice-chest. Its main
virtues are keeping baby’s milk and father’s Sunday
beer at a temperature which provokes no complaints
from either of them.
“D.F.”; A humble disciple of Underwood,
the snake-cure man of the old days in Tasmania, was
James Fazackerley, of Dunolly. James is still alive,
by the way, but has given up the serpent habit
through finding himself too stiff in the joints for it.
In the years gone by the larger and more venomous
the snakes were the better he liked them. They
were allowed to bite rabbits and fowls and sundries,
and when James did not apply his remedy the sub-
jects died. When he did, sometimes they died just
the same. But the experimenter lacked Underwoods
faith in the cure, and he would not let the snakes
put their teeth into himself. He was unanimous on
that.
* * * *
“Moana”: It isn’t often that a complete
moa skeleton is unearthed in a state of excellent
repair, but one came unexpectedly to light during
some excavating at Upper Takaka (M.L.) the other
day. It is considered to be one of the most perfect
specimens yet discovered, and it is estimated that
when the big chook was alive he stood well over
nine feet in height.
* * * *
“Flinderino”: Do snakes possess the
power of fascination? A big basso-profundo frog that
lived about my North Queensland humpy was one
evening croaking at ease on the limb of a mango
tree. Of a sudden it started to cry loudly and piti-
fully'. A carpet snake was moving slowly along the
branch towards it. The frog was both terrified an
fascinated, and made no effort to escape. A broom-
handle restored order, but the frog remained in a
blue funk all that night. Most animals treat snakes
with indifference, a notable exception being the
monkey, which is terrified by the sight of a serpen
even should the reptile be of a non-venomous vane y ■
“Eryander”: If “Barcoo” (B. 2/3/’l6) is
right in identifying the Queensland floek-pigeon with
the passenger-pigeon of North America, he is wrong
in thinking that the bird migrates from Celebes.
The huge flocks of pigeons that I have seen starting
away north-westward from that island were all either
fruit-pigeons or of the genus which includes our own
wonga-wotiga. The Dutch official zoologist at
Macassar told me that the Celebes pigeons migrated
to Siam and Lower Burma, and at Sandakan, in
North Borneo, I afterwards saw millions of them
passing overhead, always steadily north-westward —
which was certainly not the course for Australia. On
the other hand, an old Bangkok resident said he had
never heard of any oversea flocks of pigeons arriving
periodically,in Siam.
?. * * *
'*, f Ringbolt” : About finding the compass-
fioints (B. 2/3/’l6). It’s not generally known that,
when the sun is visible, orientation can easily be had
from a watch by placing the 12 with the sun and
taking a line half-way between that and the point at
the indicated time. This with us gives north; but
in the Northern Hemisphere it is the time-point which
is placed with the sun, so that the line half-way to
the 12 gives south. The halving is required because
the dial has to be twice circled for the 24 hours.
‘‘Thomanken” : Would be paralysed to hear
of any test more severe on black brother than the
following. We were on the verandah of a pub
back behind Brewarrina. Black Jack Shepherd, or
“Cobra” Jack as he was usually called, wagered 16
diinks that he’d stand anyone in the company break-
ing an empty bottle across his forehead. Gus, who
was noted in the district for the number of times he
had perjured himself by attaching his signature to
pledge literature, took on the job. Lifting a bottle
he cracked it on to “Cobra’s” forehead, and every
Christian present turned away thinking that there
was another Black Cloud less in the Commonwealth.
Black Jack brought us to the rightabout by saying
quite calmly, “By Cripes, that Gus him make my
blood come, but he got to plurry well shout!”
* * * *
“Petrograd”: When a boy I lived near
what was then St. Petersburg, and often watched
two men over 60 years of age unloading wheat bags
from a river barge. Each bag weighed 3001 b.
(English) approximately, and the two Trojans used
to carry them up four or five rickety steps from
the barge to the shore and then up a ladder of
about 12 steps into a loft, where they stored them
three tiers high. They worked from dawn to dark
and subsisted on a little black bread and fat bacon
washed down with much vodka. Their pay for a
week was what a local lumper would reckon as not
being much for one shout, and on it they kept
large families. But that’s the economic side of the
matter; the other side is that each of those men
got outside enough alcohol in the shape of vodka
in a day to lay up a good Australian soaker with
d.t’s for a week. Some 15 years after I left
Petersburg I heard from a friend that the old
champions were still living and lumping on vodka.
Still, 1 wouldn’t recommend it to a teetotaller.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE CAMPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A hundred miles from a railway town,
I swing my quart where the sun goes down,
And codfish fry to a crispy brown
While flicking an ashbed damper.
1 face the fare like a bush-fed horse,
For hunger, faith, is a royal sauce
To season the first or the second course
Of fish for a Lachlan camper.
I throw a rug of the fox-skins red
O’er gum-leaves forming a dainty bed.
A man sinks under the boughs a-spread,
Content as a bee in clover.
The Outback life is a breezy joke
To eyes that look through the fragrant smoke.
A loyal mate to the lonely bloke
Is ’baccy the wide world over.
The come down from the dome of blue
Like fireflies flitting the treetops through.
The Cross, and planets, and star-dust, too,
In splendid and wild confusion.
Like pendant lamps on a branch they sway,
With light outshining the orb of day
They twinkle, scarcely a span away,
With vivid and rare illusion.
I reap reward of a dreamless sleep,
Who never vigil with Care would keep
Where Life is sunny and Laughter cheap,
Mere sorrow is unavailing.
Who cares for nothing, I call him Mate,
With hearts as big as a six-by-eight;
We throw a glove and a jest at Fate,
Life’s distant peak-tops scaling.
The Lachlan’s song to the morning clear,
The reed-bird —singer without compeer.
The splash of fish in the stream I hear.
Ho! Coffee and cod and damper,
Where fish and pigeons and black duck be,
Though Life be lonely, yet Man is free;
No overlord of the town for me,
I’ll die, as I live, a camper.
N.S.W.
BLACKBOY.


ATTENTION!
....is the order of tlie day, and the splendid range of smart,
stylish
1
i'i
n
■■
Autumn Suitings
at Murdock’s
Desk R.
Messrs. MURDOCH'S In Park St. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Autumn Suit-
ings at also tape and self-measure-
ment form.
Name
Address
demands the attention of
men who value their
appearance.
They are quality Tweeds
and Worsteds that will
please the most critical,
and economy is fully
assured.
55/-
IS MURDOCH’S PRICE
FOR A HICH-CRADE
SUIT TO MEASURE.
Other Prices are
50/-, 63/-, 70 -, 757-
Pay us a visit to-day
—choose your material
and leave your order.
Your impregnable line
of defence is “ Satisfac-
tion, or money back.”
We Pay Carriage to your door.
Just drop in and examine
the fabrics —you’ll be
pleased. W T rite for pat-
terns if you live out of
town. Fill in the coupon
now.
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK
ST. LTD.
SYDNEY
“Where the GOOD Hats are.”
c.
fim
it.
A
%
$
m
is*
The Greatest Factor
in Bar Economy and
Utility of Recent Years
NELSON’S
“NEW (1916) VICTORY”
DISPENSER’S BAR ARM.
“Latest Patent.**
No Hotelkeeper can afford to be without this Time-saving, Profit-making
Reputation-building Plant.
By its use big savings can be effected on the Aerated-Vi ater Account.
It enables a more Rapid Service, Hygienic and Simple, and saves its cost
within three months.
This “NEW” Bar Arm embodies many improvements. It is superior in
every way to the old pattern, there being no springs of any kind, and nothing
complicated to get out of order.
Stop wasting unnecessary time and labor, which costs you a lot in a year.
Handle your business in the New, Business-like manner, that puts the wasted
money back into your pocket, and big interest added.
Your plant is incomplete—your profit-making force clogged—without the aid
of the “NEW VICTORY” Dispenser’s Bar Arm.
Ice-cold Lemonade, Gingerale', Snappy Sodawater on draught at your bar.
WRITE ! Let us supply you with full information.
NELSON'S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
..X!
mu
I
s.r-'i
.
.
V.*
•.
*
■j
-
THE
PIANOLA
PIANO
BRINGS HAPPINESS
INTO DAYS OF GLOOM
The Right Note in Entertainment
PROPERLY enough we are a little sensitive as
to the manner in which we take our pleasures
_ gaiety and extravagance seem out of keeping
when so many of our bravest and best are giving
their lives for us. Yet gloomy faces and grim fore-
bodings are the height of disloyalty and are put to
shame by the cheerful demeanour of our defenders
who are ever ready to return a thundering “NO!”
to the question “Are we downhearted?”
It is essentially a time for simple home enjoyment,
diversions that will keep the family circle in courage
and good cheer. Exactly the right note is struck
by the entertainment offered by a ‘ Pianola Piano.
The Pianola is world famous. It is chosen by men of
wealth and culture everywhere as the finest instru-
ment of its type. Its great artistic worth is attested
by practically every great musician of the present
day and generation. The Pianola is made only by
The Pianola Company in the following models ex-
clusively—The Steinway, Steck, The Stroud and
the magnificent Weber Pianolas. Prices from £126.
Moderate monthly payments can be arranged.
Write to us for illustrated catalog B.L.
©Kc Pianola Gorapant^
384 George St., Sydney
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE
lilil


TYRES
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVCURL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon became a mass of wavy curls.” Result cer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Send 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
Duvals Co.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
475 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
300 Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM,
PERTH.
Best in the Long Run
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F.
formerly Manager White
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor.
\i
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul
1 attinson & Co. Ladies recommend them!
lie sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
MORRISs
IMPERIAL
ointment
Obtainable ill Chemists and Stores
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marins, Accident § Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Munguburra”: “Nick Bottom” asks (B.
20/l/’l6) if anyone can truthfully say that he
ever saw a laughing-jack kill a venomous snake; and
in the same ink-breath tells of a jack killing a green
tree-snake. Now, the only green tree-snake we know
up here in N.Q. is venomous. On two occasions I
have seen dogs bitten by the crawler and die in a
few hours. I never saw one of these tree snakes
over 3ft. 6in. long, and they are very thin. Jack
has entertained me by killing a 3ft. brown snake, and
I once murdered a so-called tiger snake (brown-
banded python), and found a dead jack in his
cupboard.
“McNorth” : It’s a poor sort of bushman
who has to look for signposts to find his way, but if
“W.F.” (B. 13/1/’l6) happens to get lost in North
Queensland, and the sky is overcast or the sun
directly overhead, let him remember that for eight
consecutive months (from April to November) the
wind blows from the one direction—the south-east.
For the rest of the time it comes from the north-
west. He should also know, in case there’s a
calm, that the prevailing south-east direction of the
wind causes the timber to have a list to the north-
west. Again, the main fork of most trees grows
so that the rising sun will shine through it. That
is to say, the forks point north and south. The
biggest limb is on the northern side. This doesn’t
apply to every tree, but the wandering sheep can
easily strike an average. These three rules will
do to go on with, and will bring “W.F.” back to
the township. But bushmen up here don’t use
them. They just rely on plain, instinctive sense
of direction. •
TAKING NO RISKS THIS TIME.
“Anything wrong with the knife, sir?"
“Dunno yet, mate; last time I was ’ere I
cut me mouth something crool.”
“Skewwhiff”: What is the record swim
for an emu? At the South-west Arm, Port Hacking
(N.S.W.), I saw one of Frank Farnell’s pets leisurely
walk down to the waterside at Dunn’s Point, wade
in and swim to Warumbul, the National Park accom-
modation house on the opposite shore. The distance
would be about half a mile, and the emu with his
head well up made good going from point to point.
SPORTS AND PASTIMES.
THE HE: “Do you care for skating ?”
THE WIDOW: “On thin ice — rather!"
“Slim Jim”: Here in Fiji amongst the
natives flying-foxes are much esteemed and are given
preference to either pigeon or bush fowl. I have
even mft Europeans who have acquired the taste.
Brown Brother will travel miles—and they are
not an energetic people—to a fox camp. When
killed the beast is skinned and dressed carefully
and soaked in salt water (usually sea water) for
a few minutes before cooking. In this way the
smell is completely overcome. The flesh is usually
made into a stew, and it isn’t easy to tell it from
young rabbit.
* * * *
“Try Fluke” : Touching that “lead-poison-
ing” discussion. The modern rifle isn’t in it with
tne old-fashioned Snider or the Martini-Henry for
stopping power at short range. The M.L. bushman
Puts aside the dainty .303 and takes the old-time
rifle for his cattle-shooting and pig-slaying. A
Past Grand Ancient Druid of a bush boar will still
snort defiance after half a dozen Lee-Enfield or
Winchester pellets have tickled his tough hide; so
if you want to save your own hide from his tusks
and don’t care to wait for him in a hand-to-snout
tussle with the sticking-knife, have at him with your
old Martini.
* * * *
“Moana”: The amateur picnicker’s prac-
tice of boiling his tea water in an airtight tin with
a push-in lid is going to result in a funeral
some day. Treacle tins of the 51b. size fitted with
handles are now used, and they look ideal picnic
billies. So they are, without the lid; but when
that article is pushed in tight by the
careful fire-tender the can of water
becomes about as dangerous as a high-
explosive shell. At Riverton (M.L.) a
few weeks back a woman was getting
lunch ready at the seaside and was heat-
ing the water in one of these water
grenades. When the liquid was boiling
furiously the thoughtless female prized
the lid out, with the result that it flew
up like a projectile, followed by a gey-
ser of scalding steam and water. The
woman’s face was badly stewed, and if
she hadn’t been wearing spectacles she would cer-
tainly have lost her eyesight.
* * * *
“Chaney” : There is a fortune waiting for
the genius who can devise a reliable lure for the old-
man cod, for though many inland rivers teem with
fish few can be yanked out of the water on account
of his fastidiousness in the matter of bait. Mean-
while does anyone know why the average Chow is so'”'
fond of buying cod’s head ? John always acquires
the gaping headpiece which fishermen despise as
worthless? Whaffor? Also, why does Slant-Eye tumble
over himself to pay top price for the head and
despise fillets and steaks from the other part of an
animal ?
“D.F.” : One .Tames Thomas fell off a rock
and broke his neck at Sarah Island, Macquarie Har-
bor (Tas.), on June 6, 1832. They buried him and
piled a head-board of Huon pine over him. I don’t
know where James is now, but the head-board is in
Hobart, and while the part which was underground
has considerably rotted away the rest is as sound as
when it did James proud over 80 years ago.
* » * *
“Bad Australian”: It was the night of
Independence Day. He was loaded to the Plimsoll
mark and had just come through the big cut at the
back of my camp and was navigating his way along
the high dump, howling “Viva la Patria” at the
top of his voice. Suddenly there was the sound of a
fall and the clatter of a heavy body rolling down the
side of the dump. Then after 23 seconds’ silence
came the indignant and righteous protest: “Son of
a thousand goats, me blanky bottle’s broke! To
Hell with the flamin’ Patria!” It is human to
qualify one’s patriotism at times.
“Wal”: The greatest institution in Papua,
the village sorcerer or medicine-man, is usually the
most intelligent man in the community and an
accomplished scoundrel to whom murder and other
unpleasant incidents are but the merest trifles so
long as they bring in a sufficient quantity of
pork, women and tobacco. As a sideline to his
more serious business of arranging the “removal”
of unpopular members of the tribe, assuring the
violent deaths of enemies and various other pleasant
duties, the wizard practises various forms of white
magic. These are multitudinous, and range from
rainmaking to the providing of good harvests of
yams, bananas and other foodstuffs. An old mur-
derer of my acquaintance, whom I once unsuccess-
fully tried to provide with a hanging, gave me a
list of the things he was famed for, and these are
a few that I remember: The provision of male
babies for the married ladies, the growth of long
tails and ditto legs for the innumerable mangy mon-
grels that speed after wallaby, the manu-
facture of love charms for the amorous young
bucks, success in hunting and fishing by the tribe,
the cure of persons ill through the charms of the
enemy’s sorcerer, the laying of ghosts and devils, the
provision of favorable winds when the tribe wishes to
go by canoe to feast at friendly villages, the making
of charms against the bites of snakes and croco-
diles and the attacks of sharks and swordfish, also
charms against drowning, suicide and poison, and
the dispensing of drugs to make dogs and pigs pro-
vide large litters of young, and other drugs to pre-
vent the maidens becoming matrons minus legal
husbands, the making of charms to attach to clubs
spears and arrows to make their aim accurate!
making of paints for face ornamentation, composing
of songs about the bravery of women and child mur-
derers (very special tips and expensive, too. If
Kaiser Bill or Von Tirpitz want Hymns of Glory
my murderer friend could do them at wholesale
rates), and a thousand and one other things Besides
his magic factory my unpleasant friend did the
head-boiling for the tribe, also the arrangement of
the skulls and leg bones around the “remover’s”
residence. My old friend showed me all v t
in-trade, a selection of which T hls stock '
crocodile’s teeth (very high-power charmsT' T ' V 0
purposes, the hollow being used as n T * many
hold the various leaves, grasses, etc 0 f to
cine”), bits of cinnamon bark, nutmeg
acorns, wild-orange peel, various leaves ana glnger ’
human hair and flesh Cdriedt U grasses,
wizened like a bird-claw, some’
various colored feathers, pebbles 0 f
(thorite, basalt, granite, slates), a Diecp 8 80118
a lump of white “buck” quartz, some
of sandalwood, packets of red vellmv Chlps
clays, some wingbones of the flylng fox /f Whit °
glands of the wild pig, a boar’s tusk/;
bone, some lengths of string made with b
™> a string: W 5T **
of a water-grass), a eassowarv-bone dal *
bamboo beheading knife, two hollow bamboos ’ its
an angry venomous snake inside each ‘
frill lizard in a cage, some ashes made from a fir*
of rare leaves (the sorcerer told me they w «e r 6
leaves, but it .looked like ordinary wood-ashl ,
cassowary claw or toenail, the skeleton of a
a crab’s shell, various kinds of gums ami ’
some black mangrove bark, a few betel nuts 68 " 1 ’
spoon made of ebony and beautifully “a ml
with an indecent effigy, the web aimlets j
a man whom the magician modestly confessed
having butchered during a raid on a‘hostile villi
several shark teeth, some mussel shells, a few hi’l
of coral, half a dozen six-inch lengths of rattan
cane, and a few other odds and ends. The old gentle
man told me a lot about his profession, and even
made me a charm to hang in my fowlhouse to nre
vent thieves and reptiles stealing my feathered
flock, but I am sorry to say that it did not work
very well until the night I found the old sorcerer
himself annexing my leghorns. Although I caught
him with a hen clasped lovingly to his tattooed
bosom the old reprobate blandly assured me that I
was “just in time to help him catch the thief” at
the same time offering me the bird to hold so’ that
he could “run after the thief and bring him before
me. ’ But I was not to be had, and old Taunamo
spent the next month carting rocks for the break-
water. Since then the old scoundrel has fallen
dreadfully in the social scale, for he now wears
trousers and is a full-blown deacon of the little
tin furnace in his village where the Gospel, accord-
ing to an ex-tinsmith missionary, is fried morning
and evening. But this religious frenzy notwith
standmg, I sometimes hear wicked rumors that
Taunamo still makes a feed of pork and other things
by means of his old magic when his chief, the
worthy Chadband, is absent from the village.
* * * *
Mei rigal : In New Guinea a spear and
shield placed on a pathway are a warning to
go back; placed against a house or on a path
commanding a village, or part of one, the imple-
ments warn the fighting men that the occupants are
to be disturbed. When you go visiting a strange
tribe the first gift to you, as a rule, will be a
betel-nut. If the thicker end be turned towards you,
all’s well; if t'other way round, look out!
Should the nut be opened endwise, don’t sample it;
poison may lurk within. If you should meet
natives with spears pointed downwards, don’t argue—
get! If you meet a chief munching a betel filbert
witji calabash in hand, he wishes you well; but if he
has a spear in his fist you’re expected to be the
fust course at to-morrow’s lunch. Keep your optics
on any flatnose who accepts your plug of tobacco, to
see if he nips the end and stows it away under his
armlet and closing one hand beats it with the palm of
the other as on a drum. Don’t let anything detain you.
I p Hood Bay, when carved bamboo knives with a
clump of colored feathers in the centre are carried
in the mouth, it is a sign that little quarter will
be given ; and when borne on the side of or behind
the head a disappearing trick is the best thing to
introduce into the programme.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
“You want a bite, do yer? I'll call the dog.”
“Thank yer, mum; but I'm a vegetarium.”
“Barcoo”: In Gladstone Harbor (Q.) a
few weeks ago a boatman secured an 8001 b. specimen
of dugong. Up about the Malay Islands this is the
“royal” fish. The flesh is like young beef and very
palatable, and when cured properly is equal to
bacon. The oil has been extensively used in Aus-
tralia as an improved substitute for cod-liver oil.
Many years ago catching the fish as an industry was
carried on from Gladstone, but it did not last long.
The fish resents being fished for, and will soon dis-
appear on being systematically hunted. The dugong
makes a noise just like a wailing human being, and
on being caught and* separated mother and young
shed copious tears. The Malays have a superstition
that these tears are an incomparable charm for
constancy and devotion, and secure them in a small
receptacle.
THE TIME TO TRAVEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Ginpsland grass is dewy, as ye waken wi’
yer hluey,
An’ the honey-eatin’ parrots peck the blossoms on
the tree,
When yer tent begins to shimmer wi’ the dawn's first
rosy glimmer,
Oh, that’s the time to travel, to hump yer drum
and travel —-
Oh, that’s the time to travel, when the sun lifts
o'er the sea.
When the mountain stars have whitened, and the
bush is dimly brightened,
And the moon, a lazy swaggie, drifts across the
summer sky, •
When ye feel there’s no resistin’ where the old bush
track is twistin’,
Oh, that’s the time to travel, to fill yer pipe, and
travel—
Oil, that’s the time to travel, when the moon goes
slippin’ by.
And it’s when yer heart is weary o’ the noise o’
cities dreary,
As ye wander o’er the pavements, an’ confused wi’
cares ye be,
And it’s when yer head grows thicker, an’ ye’re done
wi’ love an’ liquor,
Oh, that’s the time to travel, and tangled thoughts
unravel—
Oh, that’s the time to travel, and take the track wi’
me.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


greatest of all Jndians.
and the highest point in
motor cycle evolution
yet reached.
v*~
&
X
mm
I
wk,
/y
;>■
■
*)
i*
v
u
am
tm
//
w
IE
'/ ! 1
m
his new 1916 Spring Frame
the same as “Cannonball” Balder rode in his 1,000 miles World’s
Record is now ready for Immediate Delivery in all Stales.
RHODES MOTORCYCLE
CO. PTY. LTD.,
109 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
EYES & CROWLE
LTD..
Pirie St.,
ADELAIDE.
CANADA CYCLE &
MOTOR AG’CY. Ltd.
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
JOHN KING & SONS
LTD ,
Charles St..
LAUNCESTON.
ARMSTRONG CYCLE
& MOTOR AGENCY,
Hay Street,
PERTH.
MILLEDGE BROS
LTD.,
156 Castlereagh St..
SYDNEY.


School Children
are very liable to catcb
cold. They have to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics of
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can he always FREE
of ANXIETY if they have a bottle of
9
earne s
Bronchitis
Cure =
j Wm.
~ k
L
U
*
\sZ
<*
m
* z
5
s»
\
\
fc
v
5
J
■if'O,
X
£
Xw.*.)ftv>
in the (loose, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold” trill at once “nip in the
bud’ what might otherwise prove to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up —the rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Golds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG. VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
2/6
4/6
Double
Size
12.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
On the ground that the smell of defunct
animal on the premises was overpowering the books
at the recent pony meeting at Kugowia (N.b.W.)
shut their bags and suspended peezms, and a few
days later one Hill, a Western Ikey, wrote to a
Bathurst paper to explain. This was his squeak.
In the first race four horses faced the starter.
Betting opened late 6 to 4 Lanargo, 2 to 1 Valorous
Queen, 3 to 1 Wilton Rose and any price Star of
Colors. Presently it was 10 to 1 bar V alorous Queen,
and, of course, that mare won. I have never seen
anything so hot. I would not insult the memory o
so brave a man as Ben Hall by comparing him with
those responsible for the joke. I reminded the other
books that it was only a few miles away_where the
coach was stuck up by Ben Hall. Mr. Herbert got
up on the box and declared it no race. then Mr.
Minter, the stipe, said it was a race, and all bets
were on. That after some of the books had returned
the money. The books remonstrated- with Mr. Minter,
who said: “I admit it is hot, but I have given my
decision.” If some of the people would only visit
Eugowra races and see some of the tricks they work
there they would never growl about Coonamble scale
business again.
Whereupon someone named “Fair Play” wrote to
Forbes Advocate on the subject and delivered him-
self thus: —•
I’ll stake my last shilling on the honesty and
integrity of Mr. Minter and throw Hill and all
his squealing crowd into the bargain. Hill belongs
to a band of men —I mean bookmakers —who are no
credit to any community. In their ranks is hatched
a good part of the villainy which disgraces the sport
of racing. The bookmaker is a parasite, a hanger-on,
etc., etc.
Hill next lifted up his voice as plaintiff in an action
claiming £4OO damages for libel, and the case was
heard the other day at Forbes. The jury said he could
have id., and as each side pays its bill Costs won
in a walk. Costs is the surest winner on earth.
* * * *
One of the most enthusiastic supporters of
racing in India passed out the other day when a
potentate known as the Kour Sahib of- Patiala went
under. Two of his most successful prads were Cherry
and Wandin, each a Viceroy’s Cup winner. He
bought Jacamar and Saxonite in these parts and
was sorry ever afterwards.
* * * *
Austria has just jumped with all its
remaining boots on the last remnants of the great
importing policy, it having been decided that this
season no jockey who is not a native or a Gerhog
will be allowed to climb on an animal in a public
race. This will be a blow to a great number of
Yankee pilots who for years had been doing well
thereabouts.
Touching the matter of the blokes who
risk their money on horses whilst other blokes risk
their lives in the trenches, a vastly humorous
par. appeared in Melbourne Herald when Corporal
John Wren was thought to be going to the war. It
reads even funnier now than it did at the time:—-
“Several hundred young Australian recruits drilled
in one portion of the Ascot course yesterday, while
racing proceeded in another part. A regular race-
goer surveyed the scene, and then shook his head
seriously. ' ‘lt is a sin,’ he said, ‘to let a man like
John Wren, who has done and can do so much good,
leave the country while so many younger and better
able to fight than he can find time to go to races.’ ”
How John Wren’s enlistment ended everybody knows,
and he remains here to do that “good” for his
country whereof the Turf moralist spoke. In brief,
he conducts race-meetings at Ascot and elsewhere,
and hundreds of young men who ought to go and
fight are induced to stay and punt. And whereas
all the profits of the less frequent meetings held by
the big racing clubs are dedicated to war funds, John
is his own club and the profits go to himself^
Punters in Loan Land seem to have devel-
oped a mania for writing farewell messages on the
notes they drop into the tote. At a recent meeting
a soldier, after a run of bad luck, threw his last
pound on to a nag in the final race. Before parting
with the document he scribbled “Good-bye. I sup-
pose I’ll starve now,” on the back of it. But the
prad romped home and the swaddy collected a com-
forting handful of money. On looking through the
wad he discovered two notes with writing on them.
“Good-bye, old friend,” was the message on one and
“The last of a good time” decorated the back of
another. Evidently there are sentimental blokes
amongst racecourse flats.
“Spraggs”: Some of these “amateur”
prizes are frauds. At our annual sports meeting we
had the usual wood-chop, the customary Sheffield Handi-
cap and the ordinary Hack Race “for bona-fide
hacks.” A neighbor was grassing a State Cup
winner that was sent up for a spell, so we saddled
the stranger and won by a furlong. The first prize
was a horse “valued at £10,” .the second a bridle
valued 15s. I swapped the first prize for the
bridle. P.S.—I forgot to mention that, being
quite honest ourselves, our prad was carrying an
alias.
“Mujik”: A challenge with £lOO behind it
has been issued by a Sydney band that its cornet
player can produce more entrancing music out of
his instrument than the person who manipulates a
similar implement in a rival organisation. This
ought to give the men who write the illuminating
training notes for the dailies a chance of getting in
on a new section. For instance: —•
“Tommy Smith put in good work at his training
quarters yesterday with the trombone. He rattled
off 17 pages of Mozart and finished strongly with a
mazurka, six waltzes and a quickstep. Tommy was
very smart in attack, and his pussy-foot treatment
of the pianissimo passages showed him to be in
rare good nick.
“Jimmy Jones at first ran clean away from Billy
Brown in a smart duet by Rubinstein, taking all
the obstacles in fine style until arrival at the
arpeggio, where he broke down and pulled up much
distressed. After seven attempts he got past the
arpeggio, but found the high C in the last lap too
much for him. He was short of wind and puffed
heavily. Brown won easily.
“Mick Muldoon had Dick McPherson as a partner
in a concerto for the bassoon and bagpipes, but dis-
appointed their friends by faulty phrasing, lack of
color and excessive use of the bravura. These two
men have been heavily backed at Wollongong, but
their performance this morning puts them clean out
of the combat.”
* * * *
“Smelling Salts”: With the abolition of
the old prize-ring rules and the introduction of con-
tests with gloves came many changes; but one of
the customs of the bad old days of the raw ’uns
has remained. That is the power of the second to
“give in” for his principal. Why should a second
be allowed to decide the point of quitting or going
on? Surely the person to announce his desire to
quit is the boxer himself. If he won't do so when
it is apparent that he is hopelessly beaten then
surely it is the place of the referee to step in. In
a big betting contest it would be the easiest thing
in the world for a man’s chief second to take a
bribe from the other side, and then throw in the
towel. It is time seconds were put in their proper
place, which is to attend to their man between
rounds. A man in the ring should not be at the
mercy of a soft-hearted or an unscrupulous second.
If he’s had enough he should say so.
(Continued on page 32.)
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Y. Mclriri”: One of these days some
advertising boomster will acquire money by
making a noise about the healing properties
of the black residual “tar” formed in the
process of refining crude eucalyptus oil.
This tar, representing from 10 per cent, to
20 per cent, of the total amount of crude
oil, is now a dead loss to the refiner. Yet
on Kangaroo Island (S.A.), where euca-
lyptus oil having the largest “eucalyptol”
content comes from, it is the great healing
specific of the local inhabitant. It is mixed
with mutton fat and makes the most rapidly
healing ointment I’ve ever had experience of.
I’ve seen bullockies cheerfully working their
teams with some of the beasts rawed with
huge yoke sores. All the local Bill does is
to clean the gall and smear on some tar and
dripping, and the sore will heal while the
beast is being worked. The only trouble is
that it heals too quickly. If the sore is not
kept quite clean it forms a callous. Some
bullockies prefer to render down an anteater
(echidna ) and use its fat in preference to
dripping. This mixture has a great local
reputation for rheumatism. In fact, it is
claimed to cure pretty well everything but a
fat head. It won’t cure that —I’ve tried it.
* * *
“Copabella”: Another Australian industry
passes out before it was old enough to need
an overdraft. Half a year ago a Melbourne
distributing-house accepted the agency for a
little fish-cannery located in a secluded spot
on the Tasmanian coast. It canned popular
and plentiful local fish like flatliead, mullet,
garfish, sea trout, etc., and good canned fish
it was. It hadn’t an over-ambitious start,
and the contents of its cans were indicated
by means of a rubber printing outfit. A
sample lot went well, for the goods were
novel and the Australian fish turned out of
the tin in as familiar a form as his just-
caught brother. People began to ask for
“Tasmanian fish.” This week when I tried
to re-order a supply all the traveller had to
offer was a job lot —half a case of this, an
odd dozen of that, and an ullage lot of
assorted. The factory had closed —sickness
of proprietor (probably the lieart-sickness
of tariff deferred), remoteness of factory,
difficulty of getting any materials but the
fish, expense of marketing. Anyhow there
was not enough local article left even for
our stinking-fish patriots to sneer about.
May that good trier at local industry have
better luck. He couldn’t can better fish.
* * * *
“Kuscobin” : This sudden fuss and flurry
about lanolin and the money there is in it
reminds me of all the mush I hear and read
about the enterprise of the business man.
My idea is that the average business man is
about as enterprising as an owl in daylight.
Out at Botany (N.S.W.) and here in Maori-
land I’ve seen the valuable grease pouring
down the races at the wool-scours. Some-
one, I see, claims to have found a process of
converting this yolk into lanolin. I’ve done
so in a frying-pan, much in the same way as
dripping is clarified. The greatest impurity
is plain dirt. Yet moneyed business men
whom I’ve put on to this trade-opening
have, at best, thought there “might be some-
thing in it,” and let it go at that. Do you
think these timid sheep will ever do any-
thing with the oil out of the other sheep’s
wool ?
•** * *
Under Tom Livingston, who recently fol-
lowed Drysdale Brown as Minister for Mines
and Forests, Victorian timber is to have
a larger chance. Control of the seasoning
kilns at Newport was shifted to the Works
Department while Brown was Minister.
Brown had gloomy opinions as to the use-
fulness of the kilns ; so it was just as well
perhaps that the transfer occurred. But
when Adamson took charge of Public Works
Livingston approached him and suggested
that the timber should be in the hands of
the Forests until it became a commercial
article. Adamson agreed, and the re-trans-
fer was made. Now if Livingston will only
advertise the results of the kiln treatment,
telling what value is. used by the State in
its rolling-stock and so forth, a large exten-
sion of the local industry is sure to follow.
The public only “wants to be shown”—and
Livingston has the goods if he knows how
to use them and can be bothered to do it.
The hide now is worth more than the
entire bullock was a while ago. A New
Caledonian ox-cover, brought across and
sold in Sydney the other day, fetched
■*‘ s ' P er lb. as against Is.
bjd., the previous best.
“D.F.”: Fruitgrowers in Tassy enjoy the
middleman so much that all attempts to get
them to co-operate have failed. A few
years ago they formed an association and
appointed an agent in Sydney to see that
members’ produce had a fair deal, but most
of the growers never troubled to join, and
some of those that did join only handed
part of their fruit into their own agent’s
charge, sending the balance to the old reli-
able pirate. So the manager threw up his
job and set out as an agent on his own
account. He offered, how T ever, to go back
to his job if his job wanted him; but at the
annual meeting, held the other day 'there
were only six members present, wherefore
nothing is likely to be done. Are' Tasmanian
orchardists too tired to worry about Dr i<W
or do they distrust their brand of co-opera
tion so much that they are willing to take
whatever the middleman is pleased to tin- , e
them? row
* * *
“F.C.”: Hundreds of bags of fi ne l are e
Spanish and Globe onions are lying
in Moorabbin Shire (Vic.) rotting beSS
it doesn’t pay to take them to a market
where they will bring a mere 20s. or 30s
ton. Within the last two months those same
onions would have brought £5 and £6 a ton
in Sydney, but shipping space is restricted
and they stay at home. It would pav to
drag them over the railways but for one
expensive item—unloading and re-loading at
Albury. So tons of good food are wasted
From all appearances it will be the same
in a month or two with cabbages and cnnli.
flowers—only more so.
* * * .
“Copabella”: One of the difficulties of
placing Australian-made goods is the sad
lack of imagination used in naming them
Only a little thing, it will be said; but the
retailer knows better. There are some Aus-
tralian brands that, once heard, rivet them-
selves on public attention, but there are
swarms of others that merely drift by on
the wind. Take the scores of “Federals”
and “Federations.” The brand is tacked on
to all sorts of goods from icecreams to
harvesters, a nomenclatural absurdness that
conveys nothing and frequently sells less
Then there is “Centennial,” suggesting if
anything, a hundred years behind the times
There are “Premiers” and “Ideals,” “Reli-
ables” and “X-cellents,” “Progresses”
and “Imperials” by the dozen, all hack-
neyed nondescripts. Can one conceive
a customer asking for a tin of “Fed-
eral” or a bottle of “Progress” as they
do daily for “Cobra” or “Johnnie
Walker”? Then, on the other hand, are
such unhappy inspirations as the “sun-moon-
and-stars brand,” “faith-hope-and-charity ”
and “hope-for-the-best” ! The new Board of
Industrial Research, before it launches out
on its great national work of discovering the
need of a tariff wall (at two guineas the sit
ting), might start by helping the manufac-
turer to discover himself.
* * * *
“U.” : The firm for which. I push an im-
ported pen uses a considerable quantity of
cotton waste. Hitherto the house from which
we get it has supplied a British brand. The
last lot, however, was from Japan, and,
when the bale was opened up, it was found to
be plentifully sprinkled with pieces of straw
rope, gaud v-colored cord, mildewed and dis-
eased-looking silk tags, gold braid and tassels
from discarded garments. I looked, shivered
and passed on thanking Heaven that it was
not my job to groom the clean machinery
with the evil-looking rubbish. Is there any
particular reason why this clean country
should be used as the dustbin of Asia?
Incidental to the endeavor to popularise
Australian hardwood furniture somebody
has started a stain-making industry in Mel-
bourne. The dye is extracted from the
Vic. grass tree, comes cheaper than the
imported article, and as a beautifier of
hardwoods is wonderfully effective.
* * * *
“Verdad” : From an ad. in El Mercukio,
the chief Chilean newspaper “Pilsener beer,
$3.00 (Chilean) per dozen large bottles,
delivered anywhere. Discount allowed to
retailers.” This works out at 2jd. retail
per quart bottle, for a good, wholesome pil-
sener, which tastes something like lager and
has. a lot less alcohol in it than our beers.
It is a good drink, and the ad. shows how
cheaply it can be placed on the market.
The tax on liquor should be so arranged
that it would pay the brewers and publicans
to push the sale of light beers, and then
there would be a good chance of substituting
the comparatively harmless drink for the
present strong alcoholic ones. Maoriland
has a tax arranged on this principle, but it
is so slight as to have no effect.
* # * *
This is how the bill was squared: —
William Street, Bowen.
Holliman Co. Gill St. Ch. Towers.
To Who it May Concern.
Sirs. I think we are now worthy with having a
full settlement from you sent of all Debts. Owing
to you by us now as been Paid.
For we are now sending to you the last Pound or
Penny that you will get. And I am not a shamed
to say in good faith to you that you can say that
you are very luckey to get what you have got under
the circumstances. That all.
Thanking you to oblige us with a clean sheet
and all Paid I am yours
It isn’t solely the middleman shopkeepei
whom Victorian townsfolk have to thank tor
the exalted price of fresh fruit in summer-
time. His friend the orchardist seems to be
just as anxious not to spoil the public W
letting apples go too cheap. Some weeks
ago a leading member of the Vic. Centra
Fruit-growers’ Ass. proposed a scheme 0
direct dealing with the consumer, but tie
ass.’s executive promptly emptied the pro-
posal out. The reason given why tn
growers would not take orders direct tron
the householders was that “it would mtei
fere unduly with the retailer.” It wou
lessen the slippery Dago’s powers of extc> -
tion, whilst creating a new demand
fruit. Considering the tears that are spi
on the question of the loss the P r( ( ! clu ,.
suffers through the machinations or
middleman it seems time for overcnarg
townspeople to invite some of the war .
hypocrites to mop themselves off the la
scape.
* #
It used to be said that the. sailing-shT
was getting pretty near extinction, bu
war is giving the old arks a new in o - \-
Melbourne the other day there wei
overseas sailing vessels in port, ancl '
six deep-sea steamers. It’s the ste j
that are getting scarce, as far as g ‘
overseas trade is concerned so scare
the Commonwealth Government hass J ,
prohibited the sale of inter-Staters
Australian waters without official sane
THE SERVANT IN THE HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The serving-maid at her washtub sings,
For her heart is gay within her,
Oh, God be thanked for the ease she brings -
Though our friends would gladly win her!
Her voice is harsh and her ear is wrong,
And with bated breath I blast her !
But if need be we will praise her song
For she calls us “Ma’am” and “Master” 1
I want to think and I want to write,
But I can’t work for her singing.
But, Lord, we’re free of that tin to-night
Where the dirty plates she’s flinging 1
Yes, we are done with the greasy sink
And the plates to-night we’re shirking.
Though I cannot write and I cannot think
Still —we’ve got her, and she’s working!
N.S.W.
LITERARY HOUSEHOLDER.


•1
mm
"■j?
W m
£
-
'.«•
'
«■
ffipl
G.E.
PUSH
BUTTON
CONTROL
Equip every electric motor in the plant with G. E. Push Button Control.
Men without experience in handling electrical equipment now, with the aid of the
G. E. Push Button Control, operate machines efficiently and accurately.
Everything in the plant moves like clockwork, and the appearance is greatly
'V
improved. Only the small push buttons appear on the machines, and all starters
are located in any convenient position.
“Mazda Mouse,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue” and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
BERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
“Mazda House,’’ Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A,): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. -
The RIPPER Gas Stove
rr
1:
. i
1
The RIPPER, with Hot Water Tank-
Plentiful Supply of Hot Water.
The Latest Cooking Wonder.
A MIRACLE OF SIMPLICITY,
PERFECTION and ECONOMY.
Has NO Burners
in the Oven.
Entirely Takes the Place of a Coal Kitchener,
Plentiful Supply of Hot Water.
Approved by Leading Gas Engineers.
A Ripper to Cook.
CHIEF CHARACTERISTICS:—
PERFECT COOKING
NO HEAT WASTED
NO FOOD SPOILED
ECONOiTY
HOT WATER PLENTIFUL.
Demonstrations Daily.
48 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phone: CITY 6752.
Ripper Gas Stoves Ltd.,
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/-tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
Galverft
iletSoop
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
MadebyF. C. CalvertSf Co., Manchester, Eng.


A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure silver-plated,
Al quality, highly burnished, fancy, embossed edges,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’ Luncheon
Cruet, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 quality, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish, pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, highly
burnished, 20/-
With Cracks, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Sugar
Scuttle (Al), Silver-plated,
richly engraved, 25/-
m
in ‘ ==■■■
f ~
■".-J
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Service, A 1 quality, “Concave” design, Fancy, Embossed
Border, Gilt-lined, -with Covers, £9.
A. Saunders’ Hot
Water Jug, pure Sil-
ver-plated, richly en-
graved, 30/-
WEDDING GIFTS
a
A; Saunders’ Preserve
Dish, pur6 Silver-plated, Cry-
’ stal Glass, 11/6.
With Covers.
A. Saunders’ Toast and Butter
Combination, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure
“Shell” design, 20/»
Silver-plated,
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Sugar and Cream
Stand, Silver-plated Frame, Floral
China, 11/6.
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel,
Solid English Oak, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 25/-
807-817 George Street,
A. SAUNDERS,
(Opp, Railway Station), Sydney
■
P*:
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
189=191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUST RATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ingPamphlf.t, 1/2. Tiie Yoke, by Hubert, Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Biatcn-
ford), 9d. Tiir Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
Rritish, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is Dosted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d
ss
■
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS IREE I BOM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter”
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a verv
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this crreat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
gipsy fortune telling cards-love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, ate., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules tor ail Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3o posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations ana portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDocgall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver's Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets,- Is post. Gat
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash.
’Established 25 Tears.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUIV-
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENI
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, l j
posted, if ew Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho,genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, -s o'•
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok i
Ring, Is 3d. Guide to Auctioneering, ls. bd. ok t ■
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Bo
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, •
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Ley 1
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \kst pock
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, -s P '
Ingersoll s Works, Bd, 3s. How to Re*» ■
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. CuevaSsks Ad i
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Son«
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is od P 0 ' ,
Bennarp. Macfadden’s Works, all at P
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers AN- ' '
Boilers’ assistant, Is 3d. The Mikes da- >
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post. - - -
Recitations and Readings, Is Nkrvousn.
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. VV KBff ?!£niiini ß ipatlier
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus.,
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pa)
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is - •
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moores L. ■
Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Sec ;kts of Clai ■ ‘ ’
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs t woras and music 001
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, j
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TOdMf
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney
(only).


GRAMOPHONE
Horn Instruments.
The External Horn
“Gramophones” are
notable for their exceed-
ingly fine volume of
tone.
It was this type of
“Gramophone” with which
the Polar Expeditions of
Scott and Shackleton
have in the past been
equipped.
The instrument illustrated
is the “M ONARCH
JUNIOR,” at £9.
It is made of Varnished
Quartered Oak; nickel-
plated fittings; colored
enamel flower horn; has
speed indicator; “His
Master’s Voice” tapering
tone-arm, with Patent
“Gooseneck”; “Exhibi-
tion” sound box.
Ask your nearest dealer
to play it for you.
Instrument catalogue,
record lists and names of
nearest accredited dealers
on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Reaixtered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd. f *Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Wind it on a Sunday
“THE BETTER THE DAY THE BETTER THE DEED."
This Watch is an
Eight-Day Lever.
/
What a boon to the traveller, the man
on the land —the shearer, the boundary
rider! Apart from the advantage that
it only requires winding once a week,
this watch keeps splendid time from
month to month, and is built to stand
the roughest colonial usage. The
movement is similar to the ordinary
High-grade Watch, but with an extra-
strong. extra-long spring, which runs
EIGHT DAYS instead of one. Key-
less wind, strong nickel case, compen-
sation balance. This watch is usuallv
sold at 22/6. Stewart Dawson’s
Single-Profit Price is
Only 17/6 Post Free.
Stewart Dawson's Catalogue of
Watches and Jewellery Post Free.
Stewart Dawson’s
The Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney
CAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
ODTBOARD MOTOR—
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
m
K:
Pi
0
a
m
Can
Restore the Voice with
EVANS Pastilles
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
The tool with 5 big features
is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are: —
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies —then the stock lifts
oflf the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
mmm
OSTER
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 Q.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
2]
Dinneford's
Magnesia I
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA]
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
x
X
X
X
X
X
/
X
X
a
S?*?®
? v TYRES
X
X
ALL BRITISH
x
x
x
r
X
KSSSSSSKSSSSSSKSS^SVs’
0
three ribbed tyres I
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129. Kintf Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
P C.B. — 60


VDrN ELY'. NSW.
The Wentworth Hotel Summer Garden, as in previous seasons, is still the
'rendezvous of the Elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon
Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties and all semi open-air functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular, central and
up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones in bedrooms com-
municating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more than
favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
Since It Costs No More to insist on having fanctic
in your Penduplicate books, why not enjoy the P
feet, permanent pencopies obtained with sue
minimum of effort? If any difficulty in S e in “
supplied, either books complete ? r
furnished by S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic Works, L
England. ZANETIC is ALL BRITISH; contains no
foreign dye.— Advt.
THEY SCREW IN
to the outer case. They, there-
fore, are impervious to dust, to
perspiration, to damp. Pre-
eminently suitable for the heat
of campaigning.
What of their going reliably?
Yes, they are absolutely depend-
able. They are high-grade
f-plate lever movements, with 15
jewels, a brequet hairspring, and a
compensation balance.
They have also high-grade
luminous dials and hands, which
make the time visible on the
darkest night.
They have been specially made
for us for the use of our brave
men going to the Front.
They are fitted into the best-
quality, pigskin regulation wrist-
lets, and cost £3/5/-
Our stock of Soldiers’ Watches
is enormous, and range from those
at 30/- up to £lO/10/- in gold.
A special discount is given when
for public presentation.
*o
CM
CM
00
a
with
the
Absolutely reliable, fully-jewelled Silver Lever at _
luminous figures and hands and unbreakable gi i■ ,j on
whole to screw into the case, complete, in u 'b
leather wristlet, 65/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
Pf.ATN FIGURES- -CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House In SydnW
2$ and 25 HUNTER STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The old Licensing Bench of amateurs met
for the last time in Adelaide last week, and
solemnly regretted its dismissal in favor of a
small, well-paid Licensing Court, headed by
young Nesbit, the son of Paris. It also
granted the customary licenses for a year
ahead. These say that a bar can keep open
till 11 p.m.; but the new Act, which comes
into force this month, makes it six. A few
sanguine hotelkeepers talk of resisting the
Act on the strength of the license ; but the
Attorney-General gives them no hope.
AWAITING ORDERS.
The German Crown Prince, who has been com-
manding at Verdun, has been relieved of his
command.— Cable.
LITTLE WILLIE : “On which Front am I to
fail next, Papa?"
A well-known figure will disappear from
N.S.W. Assembly after the next elections —
Labor-man J. B. Mercer, of Rozelle, one of
the ancients of the House. He was a fair
age when he entered politics and thinks he
has had enough now. As an election cam-
paigner, he was hard to beat; but his voice
was mainly heard inside on social questions.
Being an ardent Cold Teaman, as well as
a loyal party man, he found his position
awkward during the last session; in fact,
he once only saved his face, after delivering
a speech favoring the earliest closing hour,
by announcing that, as the House intended
to sit late, he intended to go home to bed.
There is a rush of candidates for the vacant
Labor selection, including T. Storey, a
brother of Jack, of Balmain.
When the wild beast is in the trap it
isn’t absolutely necessary to break in to
kill him. All that it is necessary to do is
to see that the trap keeps the beast in and
holds friends of his out. When he sees
that that is being done he will pretty cer-
tainly suggest a draw-. But that won’t go
down. The German had the advantage of
the middle position in striking; now he
must suffer its disadvantage, which is that
he is in the best place to be squeezed.
They are saying in England, apropos
Hughes’s speeches, that John Bull must
become John Bull and Sons. But the sons
want the right to work their own selection.
We will have Freetrade within the Empire
as soon as ever the senior partner has
brought his standard of living up to ours.
Until then what chance have we got if
John has the right to turn his stock into
our paddocks?
Israel Zangwill still thinks it probable he
will be able to secure a grant of Australian
land in the interests of the International
Jewish Territorial Organisation, with the
object of establishing the newer Jerusalem
within the Commonwealth. Israel imagines
a vain thing. The Jew is welcome (especi-
ally the working Jew), but it is only on con-
dition that he is content to permit the pro-
cesses of the suns and the wear and tear of
ages to modify his racial birthmarks, that so
he may become a fair-to-middling Australian.
The notion of a race apart right in the thick
of us is not the Australian idea of effective
nation building.
Federal Treasurer Higgs has issued a form
showing what he wants to know before he
gives his assent to the raising of capital by
eompanies. So far Higgs appears to have
well recognised that this is no time to stop
Australia from getting to work on jobs that
have hitherto been done for it at
great expense by Germans and others;
but he wants to be satisfied, appar-
ently, (1) that the money put up
goes that way and not to enrich pro-
moters or vendors; (2) that an enemy
doesn’t get Australia’s coin; and (3) that
the scheme isn’t an obvious wild cat or a job
that could just as well be done after the
war. The only thing to regret is that the
National Treasurer can’t make State spend-
thrifts toe the mark too.
Australia’s P.M.G. Webster, after a visit
to Maoriland, has been explaining that the
postal service there had greatly benefited
by continuity of administration, Ward hav-
ing been P.M.G. for 10 years. Webster con-
cludes from this that the Australian Post
Office would be better if it had the same
head for years. Of course it would, and
that is what would happen with the system
of elective Ministries, under which a compe-
tent P.M.G. would be kept at bis billet
instead of being heaved out because the
Treasurer or some other party was found
to be an ass. But, as a matter of fact, Ward
didn’t run the M.L. postal service or try to.
The man behind the gun was William Grey,
and in doing it Grey worked himself to
death. The machine Donald Robertson took
over was Grey’s life-work, and when Rob-
ertson became Chairman of the Public Ser-
vice Board and Morris was given the Lever
the thing went on working as before.
The speculator has pushed into the sea-
son’s wheat business, after all. Because the
advance of 2s. Od. or 3s. a bushel wasn’t
enough to pay his debts, or because Pearce
started monkeying with the original plan
and the farmer lost confidence in the Gov-
ernment, .Cocky began to look around for
people who would buy his certificates, and
take the risk of what would come out of the
pool at the final clean-up. At first restric-
tions were imposed; but now the Victorian
Commission at any rate has decided to let
’em all come, and Cocky can sell his certifi-
cates where and when and how he likes.
Which is precisely the poison that kills
most co-operative concerns. The speculator
comes in and offers the weak co-operator a
trifle more than he seems likely to get from
his own concern, and soon his own concern
starves to death. Then the speculator
sharpens his knife and gets to work in the
old way.
From Tibooburra, which holds on to the
N.W. corner of the map of N.S.W. with
four claws:—•
We have been cut off from telegraphic communica-
tion for 10 clays now, and there appear no prospects
of being cut on again. This is the second stoppage in
six months, and as most of the business out here is
done by wire it is stirring up our livers, more
especially as our mail arrives only twice a week.
Telegrams are being lodged at the local post office, to
be forwarded by mail to the nearest telegraph
office, which is White Cliffs, 100 miles closer to
civilisation. What makes our troubles of general
interest is that the hidebound regulations won’t
allow the local postmaster to send a man along and
repair the line without authority from Sydney or
London. This means asking for it by post on Form
Z 42983, and respectfully awaiting the reply which,
from Sydney, takes from 14 to 21 days. The marooned
townsfolk, however, find some amusement in reading
the ferocious letters from Sydney suburbanites who
cannot get the telephone to work under five minutes.
The same citizens, by the way, wonder why people
don’t go back on to the land.
THE LORD MAYOR’S CONGRATULA-
TIONS.
The Hon. Richard Deanis Meagher, Lord Mayor of
Sydney, delivered an oration on St. Patrick’s Day in
honor of Ireland’s Patron Saint.
Saint Pat though in glory now crown'd,
And a saint of a different kidney,
Must he mightily proud, I’ll he hound,
To he praised by St. Denis of Sydney.
Various candidates for the Speck’s
Assembly are telling the electors that, no
matter how the referendum on the pub-
closing question goes, they are going to
vote their own way in Parliament if they
get there. The voters should see to it that
any candidate who talks like that doesn’t
get there. When the people speak, the small
dog that barks on the hustings is expected
to go away and lie down. The small dog
that thinks the people ought to go away and
lie down curiously misconceives their rela-
tive importance.
Von Tirpitz has resigned his job of head
caretaker of the German’s Kiel Canal Fleet;
and this paper confesses to a minim or so
of pity for the old man. The world has
been making jokes about him and his whis-
kers and the barnacles be grew, yet if put
in his place the world that isn’t mad would
probably have done much the same as he has
been doing. He knew that the German was
far likelier to lick the Allies on land than
on sea, so why risk the weaker arm until
the stronger had failed? Britain’s posi-
tion was the other way about; and if it
could have settled the whole trouble on sea,
it certainly wouldn’t have taken any chances
ashore. Still, if old Tirpitz is to be pitied,
Germany deserves only gibes because of all
its arrogant naval talk beforehand.
In a month or so the first instalment of
the State-owned Tasmanian hydro-electric
scheme, the biggest thing of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere, should be in running-
order and delivering power to Hobart. It
should have been finished long ago, but the
war has caused delays. For instance,
when the row started a lot of plant was
lying at Hamburg ready for shipment and
partly paid for, and, of course, both gear
and cash have gone up the spout. How-
ever, the State will obtain 9000 horse-power
from the unit now installed at a capital cost
of about £350,000, plus the £lOB,OOO paid
for the electrical undertaking of the Hobart
Gas Co. If customers can be secured for
all this power it ought to be a fairly good
business proposition, but for a few years
dearth of customers is likely to be the diffi-
culty. What the State really wants is to
have such a market for 9000 h.p. and another
9000 besides. There’s any amount of water,
and the plant can be duplicated at very
little extra cost. But it would take a mob
of tigers—or perhaps Henry Joneses would
do —to speed the Speck up to that extent.
Armed with a mam
moth pumpkin and a
laige assortment of
autumn vegetables rp
presentatives 0 f ’ Z
Aomen’s Rural \Z
dustries Co. waited on
r , lc ; I jan ds Minister
Hutchinson the other
roL an ? asked f or
i-jOO with which to
grow more pumpkins
at Mordialloc. Vi,:,,
Goldstein was
chief advocate of
pumpkins as a so ln
t>;m of female unet
ployment, and the
Minister was
moved that he decided
to “consider the re-
quest’ instead 0 f
merely remarking that
it was a fine day and
good-morning. The
trouble with such en-
terprises is USUaUy
that, while the opera-
tors grow two Turks’
caps where but one
toadstool grew before
the thing is only done
at a cost far in excess
of the market value of
the vegetable. It i s
successful production,
but it isn’t successful
finance. As at Mount
Dandenong and Koo-
wee-rup village-settle-
ments, the original cul-
tivator mostly goes
miserably out "of "the
game, while another
hard-fisted party comes
along, grabs the land
and improvements at
bargain rates, and
farms happily ever
after. It is a fairly
safe prophecy that it will happen at Mor-
dialloc.
If Verdun means, as it probably does, that
neither side can break through, and we
must sit down and strangle the brute, while
poking him up as often as we can with our
flying craft, there is more than ever need
of economy ; for it takes longer to strangle
a beast than it does to crack his skull. We
might hurry the operation by throwing away
life as freely as the German does in playing
his game—which is to break out—and
whether we will have to make those sacri-
fices depends on the allied nations’ patience
and their capacity to keep themselves and
their armies fed and the guns charged.
Which is another way of saying that Holman
and Scaddan and the other spendthrifts who
are pouring out borrowed moirey on works
that are not immediately productive are
doing the thing that is most likely to compel
the Allies to hurry things by sacrificing our
sons and brothers.
ON SAFE GROUND.
“You scoundrel, to make love to an actress!
For two pins I would make you marry
her."
“ Impossible, papa. She is married already.”
It takes getting used to, this eeonom)
with public money, which has been br°ug
to the attention of Ministers and their sta
by the nuisance of war. Vic.’s Lducati
Department hasn’t got past the theory pa
of the lesson yet, which explains why
buys the seeds for its 700 school agricultui
experiment plots from a Melbourne
which obtains the supplies from the fct
Agricultural College at Dookie.
BROTHER, AHOY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brother, what need for a tear in the eye?
Brother, why gang with thy mouth all awry ?
Lift up thy head, put a ring in thy voice,
Give back a cheer to the winds that rejoice;
Tell us what stumble hath bred thee annoy —
Brother, Ahoy !
Brother, the world is a medley of things ;
Half the world sorrows and half of it sings ;
Half the world wanders in guilt and in guile,
Half of it walks with an innocent smile.
Laugh as it passes, drink deep of its joy—
Brother, Ahoy!
Brother, the day draws along to a close—
Surely there’s time just to pluck thee a rose ;
Time to drink in of her fragrance and grace,
Time to look down on a beautiful face,
Time just to laugh with the heart of a boy !
Brother, Ahoy!
Brother, I see not the boots down at heel—
Give me a comrade who’s sturdy and leal,
Little I care for his prospects or pelf
So that I see but the Star in the Self;
Never his mateship can weary or cloy—
Brother, Ahoy !
Brother, yestreen I was even as thou,
Went on my road with a frown on my brow,
Came a sweet soul with a genial “Good-day,”
Lent me a smile that shines yet on my way:
Now it is mine to go sharing that joy—•
Brother, Ahoy !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


PALING’S
Chappell —Sames
PIANOS
Estey—Victor.
Buy your new piano at
Paling's. It pays you to
buy from them. They
are experts witb over
63 years* experience.
Just tbinK of tbeir vast
experience, and asK
yourself, “Can I afford
to do without it ? 99
Every instrument sold
by them carries tbeir
well=Known guarantee.
t.
I
■ .. ■■ i-
EASY TERMS IF YOU WISH.
Old Pianos taken In exchange at their utmost honest valuation.
We sell Pianos, Player Pianos, Organs,
Violins, Banjos, Cornets, Flutes, Harps,
Mandolins and Everything Musical.
>?
Permanent satisfaction
is what offer
you. They are not
satisfied unless the
piano gives satisfac-
tion. Then why take
any risks? It is impos-
sible for you to obtain
as good value. Call
to-day or write for
Catalogue and printed
price list —tbey are free.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE.
GIVE HIM
A SOLDIER’S
CAMERA
'nil-'
.S'
.
There is no Gift that would be more acceptable to your
Soldier Friend than a Vest Pocket Camera. A camera
will enable him to secure a Priceless Record of tiie
War.
The following Daylight-loading Roll-film Cameras are
small, compact and thoroughly efficient.
The ENSIGNETTE
BRiTiSH-MADE.
The Ensignette has been acclaimed the one Camera for the
Soldier —thousands of thefn are already at the Front.
Ensignettes are made of rust-proof metal throughout.
No. 1 Ensignette.
Takes Pictures 2J x 14.
Price 27/0.
No. 2 Ensignette.
Takes Pictures ,3 x 2.
Price 35/-
Both the above Cameras are sold complete in Leatherette
Case, and with Book of Instructions.
The VEST POCKET KODAK.
Vest Pocket Kodaks take Pictures 2\ x If.
Price, complete, 30/-
Send for a Copy of our New Camera Price List.
L™
Photographic and Cinematographic Merohants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Alao at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z.
2
S 8
1
m
A Steel-Lined
Cartridge
means a strength-lined cartridge
“NiTRO Club”
Shotgun Cartridges
Made in to, 12, 16,
80, 24 and 28 gauge
are steel-lined
to above the
powder charge
—g i ving
strength to
the case and
power and
penetration
to the shot
charge. Also an even pellet
distribution that makes for good patterns
and a heavy bag. ' \
Loaded in London with the popular English powders. Obtainable
from leading dealers everywhere—catalogue post-free on request..
Remington Arms-Unjon Metallic Cartri <Jge Co»
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
£lOOO
WORK OF ART.
in
PRIZES
£lOOO
WORK OF ART.
Value £5OO FIRST GREAT PRIZE Value £5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full value for the work of art, is prepared to find a
purchaser for same at the advertised a'mount if the winner so desires., also for the Second and Third
Prizes.
Second : Value £lOO. Third : Value £5O. And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO
EIGHT HOURS GREAT ART UNION
(10th Year—DIAMOND JUBILEE—6Oth Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning- numbers will be
posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 15th April, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0. or stamps with
Exchange added, direct to the representative, 165 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and
secure a chance in this great Art Union, 22 for All, 11 for 10s.„ or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne before the date of drawing, 2nd May, 1916.
LEST YOU FORGET, BUY TO-DAY,
M, MILLS, Representative,
165 Flinders Lane, Melb., Victoria.
If any illustration appearing in T:e
Bulletin takes your Taney, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Amusements.
P ALACK THEAIKE, SYDNEY.
RECORD-BREAKING CAPACITY AT
SATURDAY’S MATINEE.
AND NIGHT PERFORMANCE.
SO BOOK YOUR SEATS.
TWICE DAILY:
AFTERNOONS, 2.30; EVENINGS, AT 8.
DAN GREEN presents
POPE PIUS X.
and THE VATICAN
Visualising
HIS HOLINESS BENEDICT XV.,
and
HIS EXCELLENCY THE MOST REV. ARCHBISHOP
CERRETTI, Apostolic Delegate to Australasia.
In conjunction with the above:
IRELAND A NATION.
114 Years of stirring Irish History, including
ROBERT EMMETT’S
Tender Love Story and Trial.
Special engagement of
MR. SID MACDONALD
in Irish Melodies.
Evening Prices: 1/-, 2/-; Reserved, 3/-.
Matinfie: 1/-, 2/-; Children Half-price.
Plan at Nicholson’s. No Extra Booking Fee.
Day Sale and Plan after 5, White Rose, Pitt Street.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Belle Vve Hotel
Reconstructed.
Electric Lift.
BRISBANE,
Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
——mm — MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
txyvuna
CURES
ECZEMA
Writing from Cobargo, in January, 1916,
Mr. J. McCleary says:—“l did not credit
there was such a wonderful liquid on the
face of the planet that could do what
Exzerma has done for me. I had tried
everything that I saw advertised, without
the slightest improvement; but with one
bottle of Exzerma I was almost cured—
this after two years’ suffering. I was afraid
to mix with people and got as far into the
bush &s I could. Now I can once more
mix with the bunch.” All Chemists and
Druggists, or from [2
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2/6
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne be sure
to stay at “Scott’s.” .For contort,
sumptuousness and convenience uo
hotel can compare with it. r
attendance-’phones in all rooms,
and Cold Water in Bedrooms.
Room or “Private-Suite”
and Hot
Single
Accommodation.
SCOTTS HOTEL
Collins St Melbourne
Telegrams— “ Scott’s,” Melbourne^
The G.-G. has been formally congratu-
lated by the Methodist Conference in Adelaide on
having decided to give up racing in war-time. The
Conference hesitated a moment over a suggestion that
this might seem to be implied censure on the State
Governor, who is a keen sportsman, but decided that
“no such inference could properly be drawn” —which
sterns good toadying but rotten-bad logic.
The well-known trainer Paddy Nolan has
unintentionally been a friend to Noses on many a
race day. Nags prepared by him at Rand wick have
a: pernicious habit of winning when the long-suffer-
ing punter has put his underclothing on every other
animal in the race. The mistaken generosity is
easily explained. Men for whom Nolan trains are
mostly non-bettors, and neither they nor the trainer
have developed the habit of whispering to their
friends. Nolan’s biggest investment seldom exceeds
£2. His latest act of benevolence to Israel was
when Gazorus kept his head in front of odds-on
favorite Cesarius in the Canterbury (Sydney) Handi-
cap, despite the fact that '33 to 1 went begging
about him in a field of six. The best performance
previously registered by Gazorus was the winning of
a picnic handicap in Frog’s Hollow or some other
depression in Queensland in 1914. Gazorus is a
tremendous brute —one of the biggest horses in
training. Another brick in the monument which is
to be erected to Nolan in Jerusalem was made when
Ickle Lass romped home in a rich handicap at Rand-
wick a few months back at a write-your-own-ticket
price.
“0.K.”; Stipendiary stewards’ inquiries
re the inconsistent “form” of a horse that has just
won a race or been more or less badly beaten, are
often suggestive of big gambling influences. The
inquiries may be quite justifiable, but they are only
rare instances of apparent dishonesty getting offici-
ally dealt with. It seems to be a fact that a striking
“reversal of form” is most likely to be inquired
into when it hurts the pocket of a powerful profes-
sional punting party. The defeat of a heavily-backed
favorite is not bound to be a matter of official con-
cern unless certain heavy backers dropped their stuff
on it. Then do they want the searching inquiry
which they certainly don’t want if a hot favorite
happens to be beaten by an animal they backed
freely. Or if they don’t agitate for an inquiry at
the time of their sad discomfiture they practically
threaten the owner of the disgraced favorite with
an inquiry in the event of its shortly winning a
race when they are “not on.” There is likely to be
trouble in store for any owner or jockey who tries
any hankypankv with the professional punters. The
swindle that hurts them, is an intolerable thing,
whereas the swindles worked by themselves always
admit of satisfactory explanation. Big professional
punters are becoming more and more of a terror to
regular turfites and an infliction upon small occa-
sional punters. They scoop the cream of the market
every time, and leave the other fellows to get on to
the “good thing” at such short odds that they
mostly prefer to leave it alone, and back a non-
trier on the off-chance. The introduction of the tote
in N.S.W. and Victoria would be the only possible
remedy for this complaint. There is no cream on
the tote’s markets for professional punters and
spielers to skim off. “One bet one price” is the
tote’s motto. All backers of the same horse stand
on the same level, and where no bookmakers are
available no crafty wirepuller can back horses during
the race, or work a big commission at s.p. in town.
All sorts of professional gamblers are leagued against
the tote, so its political opponents are, wittingly or
unwittingly, figuring in d—d bad company.
* * * *
The eccentric Wishing Cap improved on
his recent second in the Australian Cup by capturing
the St. Kilda Cup (11 furlongs) at Caulfield last
Saturday. It isn’t often that he is an actual winner.
He rarely shows any enthusiasm for racing until
he has lagged in the rear for a mile at least; but
this time he got busy before he had gone a mile.
At the turn for home there was only Tringa in front
of him, and the big horse made no trouble of beating
little Tringa with his long final run. A very respect-
able gee is Wishing Cap when the spirit moves him.
He and his stable companion, Marculpus, seem to
have the same rooted objection to letting the spirit
move them often.
A.J.C. pruned the prize-money of its 1916
Spring meeting, the cutting down in the “classic”
events amounting to £2750. The biggest slices were:
Metropolitan, £5OOO to £4000; Breeders’ Plate,
£2OOO to £1250. Another alteration from the usual
is the restriction of Breeders’ Plate to colts and
geldings, and the Gimcrack Stakes to fillies. These
two-year-old events were previously “open.”
* * * *
The Bananaland Ikey Noses is unhappy,
because at the Labor Convention lately held in Rock-
hampton a motion was carried recommending the
abolition of the bookmaker. Still it is one thing for
such a Convention to sentence Mclsrael to death and
quite another to move the Administration to play
its part as executioner. The bookmaker would be. a
tough proposition to tackle alone, because he com-
mands cash, and cash is eloquent; but he becomes
extra tough when he is joined by his pal in the Church.
When a wowser’s brolly and a fielder s bag are waved
unitedly in the air politicians have a habit of side-
stepping the situation on account of “pressure of
more important business,” and Bananaland’s Ministry
has a big crop of business about the premises just
now.
* * * *
“ Jwosp”: The imported racer has been
advertising itself on Maoriland courses lately. Pan-
mure has just won five races straight out, and George
Price, who brought her from England, is wondering
when she’s going to miss. Her half-sister Revelenta
has been in work for two or three weeks, and has
two seconds on her slate. The horse that beat her
last was Shrill, one of W. G. Stead’s importations, a
filly who had struggled through quarantine only
three weeks before. Shrill is well bred, and is a
half-brother of Vaucluse, winner of the One Thousand
Guineas in J. Bull’s country last year.
* * * *
Rock Temple, this year’s Launceston Cup
winner, was, with perhaps the exception of Queen
Battery, the only racehorse in Tasmania and the
only horse that looked one. In the Hobart Gup he
ran like a cabhorse, and showed signs of stomach-
trouble afterwards. Pneumonia finished him. The
nag was bred near Moulamein (N.S.W.) by J. Brock,
and was by the Pistol horse Vocal Memnon from
Hera.
* * * *
“Mujik”: Is that £7500 paid for Trafal-
gar quite dinkum? The horse was being sold to
close a partnership between the “Mitchell Brothers.
Both of them were bidders. And as both were
sellers the one who bought the gallant old nag shared
in the purchase price. If the brothers were halves
the price paid for Trafalgar was £3750.
* * * *
Barney Reynolds began life as a barefooted
newsvendor in Melbourne, and being built that way
soon drifted among the “heads.” He had brains—
was, in fact, the brainiest of the Wren satellites
—but he had no luck in his earlier days. Galling
once at The Bulletin’s Melbourne office he counted
up the “times” he had been given, and made it 15
years. But he put his opportunities to good use,
and the solid reading which he did was practically
all done “inside,” where also, to begin with, he
had practically to give himself all the school-teaching
he ever had.
Just before the start of the Blairmore
Handicap at Moree (N.S.W.) Glen Alpine unseated
his rider, Kuhn, and bolted around the course, finally
anchoring near the grandstand. He was hurried
back to the starting gate, but was cranky, and was
about 40 lengths behind the field after going a
furlong. Then he tore into the scenery, and, over-
hauling the others, won easily, despite the fact that
the track was muddy and the runners were not dray
horses. Next day the same nag bolted again before
the race, but this time the field was despatched
without him.
The recent uproar in M.L. between the
Prevention of Ungentlemanly Conduct to Animals
Society and the trotting fraternity, over the use of
the ear-twitch to induce the four-legged beast to
hurry, has been settled through one of the society's
inspectors designing an ear-glove which prevents the
clip inflicting pain and yet allows the implement to
do the work it was designed for. Everyone now
seems satisfied; but The Bulletin would like to
know r when Maoriland is going to jump with all its
boots on the mass of artificial aids to speed that are
threatening to make the trotting sport ridiculous.
A Maoriland sport who is hurrying up
the military ladder is L. G. D. Acland, a well-known
Canterbury runholder and owner of racing gee-gees.
When the scrap started he got into it as a second
lieutenant with the main M.L. force. He did good
work at Gallipoli, and has been raised a rung at a
time until now he is a major. Item: He has been
mentioned in despatches and ornamented with the
Military Cross.
* * * *
Two well-known sports were amongst a
recent batch of invalids returned to Sydney. Harald
Baker, some time Stadium referee, and since then
lieutenant, didn’t have the luck to reach the Front.
An accident on the transport broke some ribs and
damaged his spine, and he arrived back in a plaster-
of-paris casing that he has had to endure for five
months. Private Clarken, well known as an Eastern
Suburbs League footballer, returned with him. Both
men were daring life-savers on Port Jackson
beaches.
Gordon Lyons, the 1915 Sydney schoolboy
champion swimmer, made another advance on Satur-
day, when he won the Sydney Club’s “under 21”
championship. The event is one of the new con-
tests created to discourage khaki eligibles from
undue attention to sport. Lyons churned over the
440yds. in smin. 59 3-ssec., a performance which
entitles him to careful watching at the State’s next
championships meeting.
* * * *
“Moana”: The alleged world’s 150yds.
swimming record (B. 24/2/’l6), recently manufac-
tured in a 25ft. tank in U.S.A. by H. E. Vollmer,
emphasises the necessity of standard conditions.
Anyone who has seen the Yankee swimmer Charlie
Daniels perform in a 25ft. bath knows what a joke
it is to take any notice of times put up in one of
these sardine-tins. Given a bath small enough
Daniels, owing to his marvellous turning, was always
able to defeat swimmers who were seconds faster
at ploughing through the water. He used to
jocularly bemoan the fact that no one had thought
of building a 15ft. bath to enable him to produce
some really staggering times. All swims for record
time should be over straight-away courses; but the
impossibility of getting perfectly dead water and the
difficulties of accurate measurement make this im-
practicable. The next fairest thing would be to
decree that no record be allowed in a bath less than
50yds. long.
* * * *
In the Napier (M.L.) Municipal Baths
the other day a schoolgirl named Daisy Thompson
took a little dip of hours, and during that time
covered 34 miles. This is the longest distance ever
swum by one of Daisy’s sex in Loan Land since
Hmemoa put up a record in Lake Rotorua to keep
a date with Tutanekai.
* » * *
There’s nothing amiss with the grit of
Frank Walford, the Laborite who recently failed to
hoist the party’s flag above Bruntnell’s in Parra-
matta (N.S.W.). Surfing at Manly last week, the
undertow carried a girl towards Maoriland, and
Walford did the rest. A cranky sea threatened
to spoil his chances; but it changed its mind and
left him for a third smack at Parramatta.
Fritz Holland supplied one of the sur-
prises of “Knock Out” Brown’s life on Saturday at
Sydney Stadium. When the pair first met the whirl-
ing Brown was given the verdict on points, although
there was no comparison between the men as boxers.
When they shaped up again last week-end the skilful
Holland had made up his mind to box in such a
manner that all the wallop K.O. could hurricane
through the atmosphere would be misplaced. And
it was. Brown never had more than an also-started
place in the contest. He finished so far behind at
the end of 20 rounds that the crowd got tired of
waiting for him.
The hard and persistent walloping of
Herb McCoy shattered Fred Gilmore’s hopes inside
10 rounds at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday. A
left hand damaged in training and a right queered
on McCoy’s head in the fifth contributed. McCoy’s
early efforts were dedicated to short-range bombard-
ments, but later he extended the programme to the
persistent auctioneering of Gilmore’s head with both
hands. Frederick looked as if he might unload some-
thing special in the fifth and eighth, but under the
McCoy treatment his knees and his spirits began to
sag. He took his medicine for 20 rounds with Aus-
tralian stoicism, the said medicine including swollen
hands, a pair of overcrowded eyes,flips for three, a
bent ear, and gall and wormwood.
JACK GRAHAM,
Old-time knuckle-fighter and athletic
identity of Melbourne.
Barney Reynolds, who took Bill Squires
to America to try to win the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship, died in a private hospital in Melbourne on
Friday. For the last few years he had charge of
John Wren’s racing interests in Queensland. He was
seized with paralysis in the Ascot Race Club’s office
and died soon after admission to the hospital.
* * * * .
Unless the cable is a base deceiver Jeff
Smith outpointed “St. Paul,” “Phantom,” “Ghost”
and otherwise-titled Mike Gibbons in every round of
10 in Michael’s home town. It is difficult, then, to
see what chance Gibbons would have with Les Darcy
in a 20-round battle. Darcy could beat Smith every
day in the week and three times before breakfast.
The pair fought twice in Sydney, and each time
the American adopted tactics which suggested that
he was eager to get out of the shower. A decision
on a foul is not convincing and leaves the defeated
man plenty of ground for argument. The first time
that Darcy and Jeff Smith clashed at Sydney Stadium
the former was crumpled up by a palpably low
punch. Referee Harald Baker did not see the blow
and the Australian would have gone on, but Dave
Smith, his second, insisted upon throwing in the
towel. The second occasion saw Smith try the same
game and get caught.
* * * *
Maoriland sports are not rushing the
Wilding memorial committee with cash. Christ-
church, the tennis wizard s birthplace and home, has
handed out a respectable sum, but the thousands of
tennis players outside the flat city have gone dry at
£2O Bs. 6d.
* * * *
A Japanese lawm-tennis expert was per-
forming in England recently. He has adopted the
English-sounding name of Brinkley, and plays excep-
tionally well. But after a few dazzling games he
suddenly enlisted, and was handed a commission in
the Hampshire Regiment.
* * * *
Clive Robertson, lately one of Victoria’s
foremost polo-players, has enlisted. Uhtil recently he
held a sizeable sheepage at Dreeite, but grew tired
of the tameness of the open-faced Western District
and went across the State to Mitta Mitta, where he
now owns some country between the Murray and the
Mountains. This will be his second game with high
explosives, for he played in the match with Cousin
Boer.
South Townsville (Q.) team did some
thing- unusual the other day when nlavino- •
the Rangers. South won the match 1 by an ?
and three runs without the loss of a wicket tP
first innings was closed when the score stood at
for no wickets. The Rangers were able to accnrnnW
■ in,one tn “ o< “
*
“Koosie”: For the life of me I cannot see
why the stumpmg-end umpire should always stsma V'
leg. With right- and left-handers at the Wl l°
and singles coming freely the umpire has to cm
over after nearly every ball of the over If ,> ■
a hot day and the umpire elderly and fat the game
is no joke to him. Could he not see as well
the off side? Seems to me he could, and save w*
legs and time. e ms
* * * #
Jack Beveridge, who died at Sydney last
week, was a cricket personality of the long am
one to whom the pastime owes a big debt* B* 1
was another of his godchildren, and for 35 ’vearn'l!
was a member of the City Club. He had scored R 7
when he was given out.
* * * *
Pennant play amongst the old bowling buff-
ers in both the Ma State and Melbourne closed on the
same date. The oft-times winners in N. S Wak-
who inhabit Cook Park, city, again secured the
laurels. This club gathers under its wing all the
howling malcontents of the State, so it isn’t aston
ishing that, while its popularity isn’t anything to
speak of, its bowling capacity is very solid The
Melbourne champions are the M.C.C., which includes
such players as F. F. Robinson, Tatchell, Oastler
and Lusty. A good game would be M.Q.C against
Cook Park, with odds in an old hat on the Mel.
bourne Club winning.
* * * *
The Tas. Rowing Association recently
decided, on the casting vote of the chairman, that
woodchopping is a branch of athletics. It was
alleged that a certain rower ought to be disqualified
because he had once competed in a chopping-match
for money, and was therefore debarred by the Row-
ing Ass.’s definition of an amateur as one who had
never competed for stake-money or entrance-money
in any sport or branch of athletics. Against this
it was argued that woodchopping was not a sport or
a branch of athletics, but a form of hard graft, and
this sensible view nearly got itself accepted. ’This
paper dreads to think what would happen row to a
man who, having won a ploughing match, ventured
to think he might still be an amateur athlete.
Victoria Amateur Athletic Assoc, has
turned its back on championship events for the
time being, and about 700 of its members in the
fighting line or on the way there are saying: “Cer-
tainly; but just wait till all the boys get a move
on. There’ll be something doing for the champion-
ship then!”
* * * *
“Eryander”: “D.F.” (B. 16/3/16) is a
little previous in pronouncing cock-fighting “as dead
as the dodo.” There’s a little of it carried on
about Sydney yet; though, of course, very quietly.
In the palmy days of the horror the preparation of
the birds was as careful as that of a modern boxer.
Their feeding was a fine art, and their breathing,
striking and “flirting” powers were systematically
developed. Only the game breeds, principally the
black-red, were used, because, though the non-games
—“dunghills,” as they were called —would fight
stoutly enough with their natural weapons, they
always bolted at the first touch of the steel. Ready
for the pit, the cock is a weird-looking object: tail
cut off short and square; neck-hackles and wing-
coverts docked by about 3in., and wings so trimmed
as to present a sloped margin, stiff with the stumps
of the severed quills. I have seen both “mains” and
“battles-royal”—county against county, in England,
with generally 32 or 16 birds a side. In a main
they were fought in successive couples; in a battle-
royal they were all put down together, when, of
course, in the scrimmage, sides were mixed and
the slaughter was indiscriminate. Victory went to
that county which had a bird on his legs at the
finish, even if he died half a minute later.
* * * #
A fine walking performance was accom-
plished by an ancient ped., IT. S. Alpe, at Christ-
church (M.L.) recently. 1-low old he is only Alpe
and the Almighty know —he was a champion before
the modern champions were born —but years didn’t
prevent him attacking the eight-mile record for the
benefit of the Red Cross Fund. Starting at one end
of the city he went right through the centre of the
town and finished up in a park at the other end,
reaching the tape in lhr. 15min. 40sec. Considering
the route chosen and the age of the man who did it
the effort demanded three cheers and one over.
* * * *
“Mulga” : Probably the most faithful and
useful of the canine tribe is the cattledog of West-
ern Queensland, a cross between bulldog and terrier.
How this breed originated is a matter for contro-
versy, but I figure that the credit is due to the
Skuthorp brothers. A few years back they obtained
permission from various station-owners in the
Maranoa and Warrego districts to run scrubbers
which they had been unable to muster, and for the
job a strong, fast and silent dog was bred. On
moonlight nights, when the cattle come to the edge
of the scrubs and on to the plains to feed, these
dogs would trot silently behind the horsemen until
the word was given, when they would bound forward
and each seize a beast by the lower lip. Instantly
the animal would bellow, and the tongue would be
fastened on to, thus bringing the beast to its knees.
The men did the rest. Though most of the credit
was due to the dogs the work required men ot
exceptional skill and daring. Incidentally, I have
met only one family to compare with the Skuthorps
as all-round horse- and cattle-men, namely, the four
Lawton brothers from Taroom and Dawson River
country, and I have yet to see the man who couip
scrub-dash or cut-out like Tom Lawton or throw a
charging beast in a yard like his brother Bob.
* * * *
“Nym” : I was angling at the Goulburn
Weir (Vic.) last week where an enthusiast was
twirling a spoon-bait. He threw well out, an
was just pulling in, when there was a tug that
shook the earth, a tussle resembling Verdun—-ant
then a thrillsome gleam of a big yellow belly melting
to emerald green as the old-man cod turned to g
free. The tug-o’-war did not last long. ” a >
rather than lack of pluck settled the big ?*iap, a
when the angler grassed his catch it weighed


My Scientific Exercises are Short Cuts to Better
Health and Greater Strength.
m
Every movement in my Postal Course of Health and
strength Exercises is prescribed, for the good reason that
it ill eftect improvement rapidly and permanently.
y careful study of your individual physical short-
comings a simple yet scientific course will lie prescribed
specially for you.
Pupils from all parts of Australia and N.Z. are
enthusiastic about my system—enthusiastic because
they’ve reaped such rich returns in better health and
greater strength at little expenditure of time, effort or
cash.
Read these letters:—
“I am deriving great benefit from vour treat-
ment ; the muscles of my chest have' developed
wonderfully.”—S.A.M., Ruthven, Vic.
‘‘l think it is the best investment I have ever
made, as I feel a lot better since I started vour
lessons three weeks ago.”—E.Y.T., Ingham. '
If you neglect exercise you neglect your health.
Because without exercise your blood circulation
becomes feeble, its quality impoverished, and its
nourishing properties banished.
You ought to write for my booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture,” which gives full par-
ticulars, cost of fees. etc. Just write your name
and address across this advertisement, and send to
me. 111 know what you mean. Enclose three penny
stamps for postage.
RED. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
476 Belmont Buildings, SYDNEY.
The Augusta Puzzle Match Box.
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks, Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty Catalog. IT’S FREE.
Made in the
shape of a
watch, niekel-
plated, and
nicely chased.
It's very simple
to the owner to
open, but a
teaser to the
Price: Post Free, 1/3 match cadger.
The above Two Articles sent post free for 1/9.
Just opened, a new box of Six Iron Puzzles, with
full instructions. Post free, 2/-
SHOCKING CIGARETTE CASE
.V
A splendid
have. No sooner
do you open the
case than you
drop it as
i quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Ltd.,
New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
“ Pyjama time ”
is his time for using
My Helena
Dutch
Planters
are excellent value,
and will certainly ap-
peal to those who
want a fine-flavored,
mild cigar at a moder-
ate price.
Each cigar is enclosed
in a fibre wrapper. I
import them direct
from the manufac-
turers in II 011 an d,
hence the low price.
In boxes of 25 8/6
In boxes of 50 16/6
Postage on 25:
N.S.W., 6d.
Inter-State, Bd.
Postage on 50:
N.S.W., 9d.
Inter-State, 1/2.
My Catalog of Cigars,
Cigarettes, Tobacco
and all Smoker s’
Requisites is sure to
interest you. WRITE
for a copy.
A. M. Solomon
(Cigar Expert),
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The wounded.
RED CROSS CONVEYANCES
OF THE ALLIED FORCES
arc run on
SHELL
BENZINE
r
reas
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL C?LTP' 1
COOL
AND
SWEET
&
CO
c
&
$
s
*
CUT
AND
PLUG
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Selling Agents for
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Lid
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.\S.W.
WEAR RIGNEY SHOES
IF you desire the BEST in appearance, fit,
comfort and service, you should wear
RIGNEY SHOES.
We illustrate a high-grade PATENT KID
GOLOSH BAL., with interwoven Glace Kid
Leg. Very Light Soles and Hand-sewn
Welt.
Price - 401-
ALSO IN TAN WILLOW CALF.. 37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
r
ivi , ' '.V-. -..
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“Ranzo”: The remark of “O’Phimerty”
(B. 24/2/T6) that “Australian universi-
ties might do a lot more than they are doing
to encourage research work on our history”
is evidently based on the mistaken belief
that the only reward which R. C. Mills re-
ceived for his thesis on Australian colonisa-
tion was his London degree of D.Sc. Mel-
bourne University, 12 months ago, awarded
Mills the Harbison-Higinbotham Scholarship
(worth £100) in recognition of his researches.
Of course a degree has pecuniary possibili-
ties —it may assist in the securing of a pro-
fessorial post; but the encouragement which
£lOO in cash affords to a scholar is no small
thing.
How much do you waste a year through neglect to
plug holes and gashes in your Tyres ? It’s a
bigger item than you perhaps realise,
You can now obtain for the small sum of jt
our Complete
Rcpoiwfc)
Outfit-which will enable you to
permanently and quickly execute
most cover and tube repairs
with certainty and without
delay. This Outfit can be
used with successful results
by the merest novice.
Purchase a tin from
any Cycle Agent or
Garage. Follow the
instructions and you
will be delighted
with the Saving
of Tyres, Money,
Trouble and
Time.
*
n
o
o
oH°.
CO
V e
VNo^
CO
Xsj'fe.
ift\
sft
o\>V
o'eSfc
„^vO ? f,\>
DUNLOP
RUBBER
COMPANY
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.
Buy a tin now and
try it, and it will
not be long before you
recommend it to your friends.


At the War,
4 CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP nOME.
J, . _
iff?.
Y*" r
v..
! ' y-N, ■$ '•;
w .A^las
%
r.
w'~wi
%
f
: MMM
■
2s€
se
r-
i 4 f
■r>^;
. >•%
%
*n
aS?
£%
SJ55^
53K
O
a
,/f) ' •; -
AV. >*' j;
• *-V'’£s>.. V. ./*•" .
\ ?f.'- \£?sr
yVo
ji yl \A
O
Yv
K c>r
■':%AYk;Y
o
/ih
O
mmsm*
H*
(if
4#
r<
Ns,
K f ■
, ,:s .pv. flSV<g. .■- v \ ~ 1
~ .JL //
, //' .- i
/mzm
r%
m
t
h. ■ L ■ ■ ■M*Mi«||||
s#
>
IM
s
V'-
■agayaj**** !
\
•7CT>|gjj
y.mv'ta^i
<L
<SB>
afeSMtefesafiß*
/.•«?■ v 1"
•ft*
-A
\
es
; Y. •• v.
/ j vjsj^tr
if
■■ 5; Yy&f*'
gifgl
i
4*533
SB@
sin
-;>* i,
‘V v;*Vr J
fe t Si
*
r .
- Vi
f
j IntM C y L f r jp J
((
Cobra.” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has to see the
Dentist too,
Who is Dental
Surgeon Bear.
Poor old Chunder
In the chair
Sees the Foxie
Hold his jaw ;
Wonders if it’s
Very sore.
Soon quite free of
Pain, he’ll smile
When he’s fixed in
“COBRA” style.


“Biff” Gladdens
Sore, Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“My feet
just ache
for ‘Biff’ ”
i
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter front the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
1
fT
1
C.
mam
5iSSi
e!I
r,
THIS GOOD OIL
SAVES FARM TOIL-
-3-in-0
ne
Gives speed to Cream Separators
and prevents wear and tear.
Oils perfectly Sewing Machines,
Guns, Milking Machines, Clocks,
Tools, Bolts and Hinges. Cleans
and polishes Furniture. Keeps
metal surfaces from rusting.
Splendid for Harness.
Most Stores sell “3-IN-ONE.”
ORDER IT TO-DAY; or
write for Free Sample and
Instructive Booklet.
instructive Booklet.
V REID & REID, k
Australasian Agents, n
HARRIS STREET. f
Wellington, N.Z.
HAINES-7
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
J\. should read the British Austral-
asian, (Jd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Heading Room at the Offices. 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
emt Ufc *10(6; :
appe^r^nce prcser'q-v d
m
. ’ •*•,
Al
(USA)
TOR
GREY
HAIR.
er, Use an Oily Polish
ei
on Any of My
Furniture -
n
Those oily polishes gather and hold the dust, soiling clothing, linen and every-
thing with which they come in contact. You will find Johnson’s Prepared Wax
just the reverse. It imparts a perfectly hard, dry, glass-like polish, to which
dust and dirt cannot adhere, forming a thin, protecting film over varnish,
adding years to its life. It never becomes sticky or tacky in the hottest
weather, or from the heat of the body, consequently it does not gather dust or
show finger prints.
It Cleans, Polishes and Finishes
with one application. It gives Craftsman furniture that soft, artistic polish so
appropriate to the style. It entirely removes the cloudiness from mahogany,
restoring its original gloss. There is nothing like Johnson's Prepared Wax for
keeping dining-room tables bright and tempting—hot dishes have no effect what-
ever rpon it.
Keep a tin always at hand for cleaning and polishing the
Furniture, Woodwork, Floors and Linoleum
—in your Home.
Desks, Metal Cases, Cabinets, Safes, etc.
—in your Office.
Body, Bonnet and Fenders of Cars and Side Cars
—in your Garage.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is conveniently put up—always ready for use —no
tools or brushes required. All you need is a cheese-cloth rag.
You have a thousand uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Try it for cleaning
and polishing your
Floors
Linoleum
Woodwork
Piano.
Furniture
Leather Goods
Motor Car
Coif Clubs
Cun Stocks, etc.
SOLI) BY MOST GOOD DEALERS.
Insist on your tradesman supplying you. He can easily secure Johnson’s
Prepared Wax through any of our Australian Distributors: —
SYDNEY: Holds worth, Macpherson & Co. (Whol.) ; G. L. Gee & Co. (Whol.) ; Jas. Sandy k Co. ;
H. If. Groth & Co. ; Mark Foy’s Ltd. ; F. Lassetter & Co.
MELBOURNE: Jas. Hardie & Co. (Whol.) ; H. J. Corder ; Mutual Stores; Win. k Geo. Dean;
John Danks k Son.
ADELAIDE: King & Co., Weymouth Street.
BRISBANE: Jas. Sloan k Co.: R. S. Exton & Co.
PERTH: Hamer k Co. (Whol.); Jas. Eastwood Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: Hart & Sons Co.
HOBART: Davis & Co.
AUCKLAND: Hill & Plummer Ltd.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) : G. L. Gee & Co.
S. C. JOHNSON 8 SON, "The Wood Finishing Authorities,”
Factory : Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A. Cable Address: Johnson, Racine.
Australasian Agent, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. 1
This Coupon will bring you
a generous trial tin.
Post it to=day.
S. C. Johnson k Son
(Address c/o your nearest
Distributor), —- AC
I enclose Od. for a trial tin of John-
son’s Prepared Wax, sufficient for polishing
several pieces of furniture, a small floor, a
square of linoleum or a motor-car. Please also
send me your new Is. Color Book free.
Name
Address
Horlick’s Malted Milk is the most healthful and
the most palatable Food-Drink you can take. Its
ingredients help nature to form new rich blood —and
that means that Horlick’s is a Food-Drink of
incomparable value. Depression, Exhaustion, and
Nervous ailments are conquered by Horlick’s
Malted Milk.
Get Horlick's at the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps by Hutchinson &
Co., 26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
M
MILK
11
SSSTSS'jV
I,
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin t kes your fancy, write to the*
Manager, who-will quote you price for it.
ild Branch died recently at Geelong
W est, leaving £lO.OOO to his family. A wild
rose by any other name would be as wild;
but there were times, even in Wild Branch's
quiet, prosperous, butchering life, when he
was wild that he was Wild.
Last year the Aurora Australis had an
unusually giddy season and was visible three
or four times, which is probably a record
for Australia. The’“lights” have started
again early this year, and the other night a
wonderful display was seen from Warrnam-
bcol (Vic.).
A tall old Melbournite was lately laid to
rest when a working gang took down the
mast on Flagstaff Hill on which the arrival
of vessels used to be signalled. In those
days the city was very small and flat, and
most of the population would turn out to
see even a dinghy come in. They are going
to put up another pole, just to keep the tradi-
tion alive.
“Saint”: It was a hot day, and the new
botch of recruits were the most awkward
lot of cows the sergeant-major had had to
deal with. They made all the old familiar
mistakes, and. being taught better, invented
new ones. When he had exhausted himself
the limp instructor resignedly ordered
“Stand at ease—st’nd easy!” Then he
mopped his brow, turned a blazing eye, and
spoke. “Well, thank God,” he said, “Britain
still has her navy !”
“Masetto”: The tine gift organ of St.
Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, is in such a
stage of disrepair that the imported organist
who came 14,000 miles to play it is thinking
of applying for the help of a horse or a gas-
engine. liecitals are impossible at present:
yet £3OO would put the instrument right.
The Chapter has appealed for the trifling
amount on several occasions, but the bell-
topper has been passed back with little in it.
When Archbishop Clarke (another importa-
tion) first came here he cut down the
salaries of the choristers and even made a
frontal attack on the organist’s stipend.
How about a donation from his Grace now
to ease the strain on his organist’s corns?
This unfortunate ofncial. by the way. was
being negotiated with in England while the
position was being advertised here. But,
anyhow, who wants to play an organ that
has to be punched like Strawberry at milk-
ing-time?
Burglary-under-arms having become un-
popular in Melbourne, owing to a practi-
tioner having been caught and executed,
means have been found by the enterprising
housebreaker to deal with any sudden in-
truder. A St. Kilda Hebrew, coming home
the other night from the theatre with his
family, found the house ransacked and a
large amount of loot taken. In a handy
position the burglar had left a good-sized
soft-paper bag of pepper—the idea being, of
course, to biff any interrupter, causing
enough suffocation, blindness, confusion and
curses to allow a quick .escape down the
alley. It is a more humane method than
shooting the householder dead ; but it won’t
prevent the armed citizen from putting some
pepper into his own actions if he happens
to beat tlie burglar to the bag.
The Svdney waterside workers are at it
again! This time they are practically on
strike against the oil-importing cos., and a
famine is threatening. Of course, there is
an award fixing the rate for handling case oil,
but that’s a mere matter of detail. The
lumpers think they should get a higher rate
and a “scrap of paper” isn’t a barrier that
will stop them. So terrorised is commercia
Sydney by the W.W.U. that no firm will
accept case oil for carriage or transhipment
unless the Union is pleased to give its con-
sent The Australian Tropical Forces on
active service have hitherto been supplied
with oil via Sydney, but the suppliers are
arranging to ship the article direct, which
will deprive the local lumpers of a lot ol
work. If Billy Hughes has time to spare
from trifling with dukes and lords he might
cable out some horse-sense to his Union.
From Ted Holies :
A surprising number of Australian artists and
writers have done their bit on Gallipoli. I mostly
seemed to fall in with the daubers ; though I heard
of the presence of many Abo-liars and other scribblers
from various sources. And many, alas! have paid
the big price. Corser, whose work was well known
in Melbourne art circles, was one, though in what
manner he did the supreme service for his country I
haven’t learnt. Leeson White, another Melbourne
lad I met, has developed into a hardy, bronze-faced,
untiring grafter in khaki. Dave Barker, who is
known amongst both Sydney and Melbourne painters,
as well as in parts of the U.S.A., T met in a most
unpleasant place known as “the left” in the month
of August. He was engaged in the cold-blooded,
nerve-testing job of rescuing stricken Australians
under the hail of bullets and rain of shrapnel that
had laid them low. He has a shrapnel tear in his
coat just below the back of the neck to remind him
of the joys of the job. I met Jack Sommers only
once since leaving Australia. It wasn’t under Gal-
lipoli fire, but for my part, was almost as thrilling.
I was leading four newly-landed horses through a
horribly congested mass of artillery, ambulances,
mules, etc. Through the dust and uproar the fore-
most of a train of big G.S. waggons rattled into view.
My horses went off pop, and whilst ascending into
the atmosphere at the end of four halters I had a
dust-blurred, post-impressionist glimpse of dilated
nostrils, foam, straining traces, glittering buckles,
leather, and the tanned, perspiring face of Sommers
somewhere amongst the dustcloud. At infinite peril
of a catastrophe he managed to turn his head and
shout me some cheery greeting, then disappeared into
the turmoil again. I believe he is now in Tripoli.
Cecil Hartt I just missed seeing on the left when the
Turks were making a counter attack. For at one
time that night I must have been within two yards
of every man in his battalion. But within an hour
he was being hurried off the Peninsula wounded. The
only artist I met whose profession showed from under
his military exterior was Frank Crozier, of the
V.A.S., Melbourne. I saw him under a most dis-
reputable felt hat, a soft, unkc-mpt brown beard, and
dusty pack and equipment, to which was strapped
paint box, pallet and small eanvas ! He was leisurely
crossing a rather exposed slope with a far-away look-
in his eyes; and I momentarily expected to see his
inspirations scattered by a shell from “Beachey,”
which was always due in that locality.


*£ooB
health
J
<am:-
■4
WHEN IT'S A MATTER OF
TREATING
FILL YOUR GLASSES WITH
ALOK
The non-intoxicating drink which gives
greater health and success.
It’s a Tonic as well as a
drink, with a delicious
nutty flavor. Try it with
Lemonade, Ginger Ale
or Soda Water.
If you didn’t take Alok the night
before take it the next morning.
IT TREATS YOU WELL
All Hotels, Clubs and Fountains
6d. per glass.
CHEMISTS 2/6 & 3/6 per bottle
HOTELS -3/- per bottle
CHEMISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
DH33KI
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Far Phono man y times as efficient
mtsaia L,di nume and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A NEW TREND
IN BOOT-DESIGN
This shows the
new straight-
shaped boot,
which gives the
foot a narrow
appearance. A
particularly
smart style, in
Best-quality Pa-
tent Coltskin,
with matt Kid
Tops, Lace
Fronts, . close-
welted Soles.
Stocked in Two
Fittings, wide or
narrow, 28/6.
Same shape in
Tan Willow
Calf, 26/-.
Same shape in
Fine Glace Kid,
27/6.
We Pay Postape.
Write for Catalogue.
Ma
I
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
This Week’s TOILET HINTS
A BARE CORRECTION OF BEAUTY HINTS FROM NEAR AND FAR
HOME RECIPES.
Getting Rid of Feminine
Moustaches.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring
downy hair-grow T ths a method of permanently
eradicating the same will come as a piece of
good news. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be used. Almost any chemist
should be able to supply an ounce of this
drug. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to remove the disfiguring
growth instantly, leaving no trace, but also
to actually kill the hair roots without irritat-
ing the skin.
How to have Thick and
Pretty Hair.
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp
completely, and greatly stimulates the hair
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed Jib. packages, which
retail at half-a-crown. However, as this is
sufficient for twenty-five or thirty shampoos,
it really works out very cheaply in the end.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc
A unique new method instantly removes and
them.
corrects
The new sparkling face-bath trot™ ,
the skin of blackheads, oiliness* and onr* rids
pores almost instantly. if f ® nlar Sed
harmless, pleasant and immediateiv
All you have to do is to drop a stvmm ve ‘
obtained from the chemist’s, in a ta A le t,
HI _ resulting fi ass of h <>t
has subsided dab the affectedpoitkmI eSC f ence
f!),.p frsf.lv with Tuitions of
water, and after the
face freely with the liquid. When Lf } he
the face you will find that the hl/nti r'
come right off on the towel, the larffn '
contract and efface themselves and thf
ness is all gone, leaving the skin smooth
and cool. This treatment shouldbe
few times at intervals of several davs ?n i a
nent iake that the result shall be pernla-
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
restore the color of youth. 111
One need not resort to the very questionable
expedient ot hair dye in order not to ft
grey hair. The grey hair can easily be changed
back to a natural color in a few davs’ tfA
merely by the application of a simple Tf
fashioned and perfectly harmless home-made
iotion. Procure from your chemist an
of tammalite concentrate and mix it with W
ounces of bay rum. Apply this to the hair a
few times with a small sponge and von win
soon have the pleasure of seeing TO ur e-rev
h ; lir , graduaHy darkening to the desired
shade. The lotion is pleasant, not stickv nr
greasy, and does not injure the hair in anv
way. y
fa
f
&
mmm
SK
r;
-
*• ■
- *
mas ; s-v»
■ ■
mxi
:a
For Writing Home
A FILLER IS BOUND TO GET
BROKEN AT THE FRONT.
The Onoto needs no filler ; it fills itself from any
ink supply, and cleans the nib while filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position. You send
it out to your friend at the Front full of ink ready
for immediate use.
The nilitary-size Onoto Pen is just the right size
for a soldier's pocket.
Needs
no
filler.
Onoto
Pen
THE
From
12/-
THOMAS DE I.A RUE &- CO . Ltd., Bunhill Road,
London. E.C., or the Australasian Managing Agents,
NORMAN BAKER <y LONGHURST, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
vmm
IP
■
mm
fr
8
This Non-Skid Tread
is built up high in the
center where the wear
comes. Therefore
you get all your money
out in actual service.
Right-angled against
skid in any direction, this
massive good measure tread
affords maximum safety as
well as multiplied mileage.
And it takes the powerful
Firestone body to sustain
the bulk and strain of the
Firestone Non-Skid Tread.
All this good measure building
ispartof theUniversalFirestone
Service for any demand.
Firestone Tubes and Acces-
sories also on hand.
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales West Australia
Grimley, Ltd. Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Sydney Perth
South Australia Victoria
Dnncan & Fraser, Ltd. Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide Melbourne
FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO.
“ America’s Largest Exclusive Tyre and Rim Makers **
Akron, Ohio, U. S. A.—Branches and Dealers Everywhere
Factory Representative:
W. E. Ludlow, core of American Consul, Sydney
m
s=
%
«-
iLLL
r:
ft
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Bonnet: We have no rocks to throw at the
entrance of the girl-clerk into banks. Half the work
Gussie has been doing hasn’t been man’s work. And
there is too ranch man’s work waiting to be done in
this country to have Gussie wasted E. V. Hobb:
Any bookseller or Public Works Dept., Melb
A. 8.0.: Write to the secretary of the bank'. ...
Myall: That Surat par. was just one month stale
when it reached U5....C. Reader: Yes; No. 3 scores
three points for a run. .. .X.Y.Z.: Sorry; cannot
trace.... Sherwood: If you can show us where the
raw material can be got we will barrack for a 25
p.c. duty straightaway... .H.C.M.: Paragraph or
sketch or chart to hand. Forward cypher key....
Patricia G.: Thanks H.A.W. : Not enough in
socks yarn. .. .W.G.H.: “War Triumphant” is poor
stuff. Afraid the “intelligent portion” of our
readers might come in with an axe if we offered
them lines like “Of darkness and desolate’s blight.”
....Sarto: Well, suppose they could dig out the
point, what is there in it? A dirty larrikin drunk
steals a pound (loud laughter)... .T. McG." Verse
poor; theme dull. “On the Jury” is a dreary tale
badly written... .Warre: Too thin.... No. 9: Bill’s
yarn would go in a paragraph. Verses not up....
Murdlanti: Why don’t you bring in a black panther
and a few red Indians to give the true Australian
local c010r?... .O’el: Too rough... .M. 8.8.: But what
does it mean?
Out in the west where the great plains are,
Stands the town of Walgett,
Where the sheep runs are,
And the droving far,
Are in this region met.
....Chick: Now that’s something like... .F.S.: No
life in it.... Homo: Out, foul thing!... .C.L.G.:
“Telephone” well enough done; but too slight for
space. .. .M.P.8.: “Sanctuary” held for inquest....
Cap Ella: Like one line: “I crossed that green emetic
outlaw called the sea.”. .. .C.C.W.: “Gorblime” chant
doesn’t cheer U5....N.5.: Not shrill enough....
W.A.0.: Not up G.S.S : Thin stuff R.P.A.8.:
“Sun Worship” is lame in form and weak in idea. ...
11.A.5.: Never knew the “wild briar” to offer a
pleasant shade. The last one we met was 18 inches
high and stabbed us in 17 places when we tried to
sit down... .Coo-ee: Some fair lines; but that’s a
ghastly idea about the dogs of war gathering him in
the tomb. .. Sparrow : Not-quite... Leonida: Sometimes
it’s almost poetry and occasionally it’s very good philo-
| sophy, but it’s never decent verse. You have ideas ;
I now get the form correct.... Bluebottle: You’re a
nice sort of nocturnal prowler with all those moral
; qualms about ninepence !. .. . 0.W.: We have turned
I down 497 contributions in the same vein, and none
of the verses bumped more violently than yours....
Timon: You are hardly fair. We have known some
very nice gods and goddesses in our time. .. .D.M.C.:
Send us your 59th effort... .J.C.11.: Yankee hen
verses no use. .. .A.T.: Ape yarn not exciting enough.
... .G.0.H.: Sorry, verses not quite up. .. .T.S.:
Small handwriting on dark grey paper and the use
of soup for ink doesn’t make us feel kind... .W.P.C.:
Anzac is stormed in rhyme about 10 times a day, but
the’ sniper in the basket always gets the landing-
party... .M.C.: You are the first to our knowledge
who ever tried to rhyme “heaven” and “devil.”....
C.8.J.: But the pushite isn’t a mixture of cockney,
Yankee and nigger as your verse makes him....A.1.:
He isn’t “The Bravest Thing on Earth” ; but he often
comes near being the dullest clod in the landscape,
....Lex Devar: Verse out of tune; joke lamentable.
....Box 7: Looks as if it were “dashed off”; and
based on dashed bad observation t00....R.C.: Meek
religious aspirations don’t bloom here. Prefer rugged
paganism P.H.S.: Dull yarn about nothing much.
. ...M.W.: Careless, slovenly work. .. .James Aye:
And you say your “wordin’ ” is a “bit gorgeous” !
Why, we’ve heard better swearing at a bishop’s
garden-party.
. TO ARTISTIC (AND fNARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Robert McA.: Obviously you did it with your little
hatchet. .. .Roly P.: Gags weak and drawings
wooden. . . .E.W.M. : That gag is worn out now. Your
“line” is terribly hard —what there is of it.
Frank M.: Learn to draw and try to avoid that park
type of wit. .. .Chas. L.: No value here... .A.8.M.:
Creaky humor. .. . F.A.G.: Your amiable hobby seems
to consist of imitating Will Dyson. .. . A.lv.: Undi-
luted stodge... .Brodie M.: No sale... . J.L.: Solemn
scratch! ngs.
“Y.Z.”: The respect which is generally
supposed to be due to almost any Australian
artist who has the good sense to be dead is
enthusiastically entertained by the com-
mittee of the Eight Hours Art Union in
Melbourne. This Art Union is a hardy
annual, and offers the investing public every
year a magnificent Australian painting,
valued at £5OO, in return for its bob. The
magnificent Australian painting is always
by the same Australian artist, and the said
artist is dead, and has been so for so long
that other artists begin to wonder if his
posthumous works will ever give out. Pre-
sently it will be their turn to be dead, and
they would like to feel that the favor
bestowed on this particular deceased is not
to be eternal.
The language of war has infected even
the Scripture-in-State-Schools agitators. The
Conference of the Methody Church in Yic.
has, on the motion of Rev. Brother Worrall,
recorded its sympathy with “the aims and
objects of the Scripture Campaign Council.”
We’ll be hearing soon of the Christian Offen-
sive Forces and the Bible Trench Fighters.
Meanwhile the Salv’army. with its Blood
and Fire banners, is saying very little, and
the War Cry seems conscious that its nose
is out of joint. Harmy majahs and captains
make no open show of fighting the Devil
since the Kaiser usurped the title; and if
they pass round the tambourine on behalf of
their own perennial war fund they do it as
if they knew they were in danger of getting
pinched for obtaining twopence under false
pretences.
Herbert Tucker, the Melbourne man who
is Chief Buttoneer in connection with various
Victorian patriotic funds, was lately in Eng-
land on private business. While there he
produced his notebook and showed the Anzac
committee the figures for a succession of
Victorian “button days,” with the result that
the device is now being worked in London
for the usual purposes.


1
Parramatta
fi Remarkable History
Reads like a Romance
m
is
V
*
*
I
»!
M
s.*
fj*f
~—
tf uw*
&*K»
»r v
V
Jm
■*
<
•* -♦>
’
3M
„ 1 «W.
FRONT VIEW OF MEGGITT LTD.,
The Big Oil Manufacturers of Parramatta
*■ *.
"t ' Sa.
By “Scrutator.”
PERHAPS there is not ill the whole of Australia a more striking and stimulating example of enterprise, grit,
pertinacity and ability than Meggitt Ltd., oil manufacturers, of Parramatta. The history of the firm reads
like a story. Before 1908 nobody on this continent dreamed of manufacturing oil, that being one of the
many products Australians were content to purchase from afar. One. man, however, was not satisfied with this
condition of things, lie believed that oil could be manufactured here as well as elsewhere, and he translated
his belief into a fact by starting in the year 1908 to produce oil in the small town of Parramatta. He began in
a very humble way, having but two small presses capable of crushing 100 tons of linseed a year. To-day this
humble beginning has grown into a magnificent mill which crushes 8000 tons, and which, when the plant at
present being installed is in full working order, will crush no less than 16,000 tons yearly. This splendid achieve-
ment represents years of strenuous labor. Difficulty after difficulty had to be met and surmounted. these
troubles over, it was easy enough to produce the article and to make it equal to the best ever imported, but it
was not so easy to get people to buy it. The inveterate prejudice that makes Australians, despite their alleged
patriotism, prefer articles of import to articles of local manufacture, had to be beaten down, and it was no easy
task. It was still more difficult to dispose of the by-product, linseed cake, for fattening cattle. Indeed, up to
the present moment the firm exports the bulk of this to Europe, where farmers apparently have a keener appre-
ciation of its value. Still the firm struggled on and was slowly but surely establishing itself when, about two
years ago, the mill was utterly destroyed by fire. To some this would have been its end. To Meggitt Ltd.
and particularly to its manager and inspiring genius, Harold Meggitt—it proved but the beginning —the beginning
of real suceess'and prosperity. A magnificent new building has taken the place of the old. new machinery, was
installed, while to-dav preparations are being made for the installation of new machinery, which will mean that in
a month or two the firm will be able to supply the ever-increasing demand for oils by which to day it is almost
overwhelmed.
HAROLD MEGGITT,
Managing Director of Meggitt Ltd .
AS we have said, the difficulty was not
to manufacture oil, and good oil at
that; the difficulty was to dispose of
it. The founder of the firm, Mr. Meggitt,
senior, had surmounted the difficulties of
manufacture, but the problem was how to dis-
pose of it. The hour had come, but as usual
the man had not turned up. However, he
materialised in time. Harold Meggitt was a born
salesman. He had in that capacity distinguished
himself in such firms as A. G. Webster's and Massey
Harris’s. Accordingly when he joined the firm about
five years ago he threw himself with energy into the
work not only of selling the oil, but also of disposing
of the linseed cake. It was an exciting time, but he enjoyed it up
to the hilt. He found it easy enough to make a first sale, but some-
times hard to make a second. The farmer, who is essentially conser-
vative and dreads the unknown, was suspicious of the linseed cake.
Prejudice dies hard, and it was only by experimentally demonstrating
to the farmers the value of the cake that he ultimately induced the
wisest of them to take saner views. It is pleasing to have to state
that the old prejudices are dying down and that just as local firms
are appreciating the oils, so the farmers are extending a more
liberal patronage to the by-product. Indeed, in recent years the
demand, particularly for the oils, has become so great that the
problem is not how to effect sales, but how to increase production.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM 1 /-
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3J per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits —no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Geneiiai, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Oflice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) . . £1,196,108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todaian, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. if. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . .. 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches — London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,805.000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dihns, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Hire liin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; lion. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |]eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 992,295
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ‘S’, 2
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The C°l° nial Mutual Qjf e
assurance society LIMITED
roa
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments ami
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with al! United States and Canadian
Railways.
MAITAI,
Sails from Sydney, 23rd MARCH.
To be followed by
MOANA,
from Wellington, 27th APRIL.
Connecting Steamer leaves Sydney 20th APRIL,
STEAMERS STAY 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
“THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as
follows (circumstances permitting) : —•
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY i
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 25.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 29.
Leaves Sydney April 1.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 5.
Leaves Sydney April 8.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A.and JV. A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 1.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
MAR. 29, APRIL 19, MAY 10, MAY 31.
A ppIy : — ’OCEANIC
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
Directors
£3,500,000
£2,600,000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
'ihe Hon. Edmund W. Fosbeiy, C.Ai.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald .1. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edged iff Laidlev, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St , E C.
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
■T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.’
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
i ,lel ' '“hit'ess Potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
oft t e . rs a held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist the
prospective settler and to the honest worker. e
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.YV.
T. C. TROEDSON, Direct
or.
aoiaao a van
i||pMIOUIUIOD
si
■ A3NCIAS
ffl]misn|j»!iußg;
Open
for a.ll
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits’
Advances made against approved securities. K
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
Minimum
Deposit
nc -rA Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at 9 0/
per annum u/ 0
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Saving's Bank Facilities
J\MES KELL. Depirr Governor.
June, I9lh
DENIS -MILLER, Governor
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. ..£250,000
Capital Paid-up.. £lOO.OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Company empowered by
Act of Parliament to operate in more"than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C.
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. | JAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. \V. BELL, Esq. | R. M. PITT, Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by llarrv J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
"[■HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
larh- ie to <^ omPan ' 8 nia = n ‘^ cent Steamers trade regu-
..KftJi* 0 *?! CLAIIENCE. BELLINGER,
i MACLLAY AND MANNING
RINERS; also to BYItON BAY CORE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
the C N lb S at \v a F r« keU /^, s “ ed ln co,, J un ction with
tninni.m « AiLS and railways
to include first- or second-class rail to BUISB\NF*
%usttyV&r.«Jizsr* v '’
steam™ D r'r < 8= {E 6?'~ F,rSt ‘? la f S rail and saloon on
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST. SYDYFY
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE 3TEAMSHIPCO,
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE ' 0 and ,
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, April 7
and May 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
RUPARA, March 25
PARINGA, April 1.
MORIALTA, April 8
ALLINGA, April 15.
on all services subject to «S,E w { S" np " ,i "
ascertained on application at the Company's Ote '
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, Fiji svn
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRALASIAN T? M
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
tTwin-Screw. ‘Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets applv
UNION SIT AM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Ulimaroa," “Wimmera,"
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LIVERPOOL via NEW ZEALAND.
T.S.S. “CUMBERLAND.”
15,000 Tons. CAPT. McGIBBON.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
SAILING SYDNEY about MARCH 31.
Fare to Liverpool, £4B.
Excellent accommodation for a limited number of
Saloon Passengers.
Well-lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
All passengers must produce Passports before booking.
For full information apply to
IiIKT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LIU.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
The Famous 12-Horsepower
KERMATH
MARINE and STATIONARY ENGINE.
4 Cylinders—-4 Cycle Medium Speed
Complete Equipment, including High--
tension Magneto.
Price from £6O up.
Write for Catalogues.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Invincible Motor Construction Co.
LTD.
35 Pitt Street Sydney.


Y v
if?
v' /
>
Little Lectures
by Nurse ‘Winc\rn's
(Lecture Vo i.)
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an
intricate network of telegraph
wires. Controlled and nour-
ished by a portion of the
brain —known as the nerve
centres —the delicate thread-
like nerves radiate in all di- |
rections throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres |
are capable of continually
supplying nourishment to the
nerves, the nerves will remain
strong and healthy. But
directly the nerve centres be-
c ime weakened by overwork,
worry or anxiety, they are un-
able to transmit the necessary
nou ishment, and the nerves
b :come worn out and “on
edge.’’ Tnen it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia —you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
Because, being a powerful
nerve food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets j
right to the root of the trouble, !
and, by creating a supply of I
new nerve force, stimulates i
and re-vitalises the whole
nervous system. Try ‘Win-
carnis’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it
Begin to get well,
TO-DAY.
* Wincarnis ' is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO.. Ltd , Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
' Wincarnis ' from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, pr ces 4/- and
4/6, but if you experience any
difficulty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5/7 Barrack St., Sydney.
Wartime
Econcyrny
o
r
*
■/
\
KC'tEK&tC'
Peacetime Economy too,
is obtained by using
Michelin Tyres*
The claims for economy were never so insistent as at present; therefore it
behoves every motorist to see that he is getting the best value possible from the
money he expends on tyres*
In purchasing a Michelin Tyre you obtain an article which is the result of
years of careful study and endless tests*
Michelin Tyres give all-round satisfaction and stand up to their work
better than any other tyres; in a word,
MICHELIN TYRES ARE THE CHEAPEST TYRES PER MILE RUN
and that is the only thing which counts.
If, therefore, you are not a user of Michelin Tyres, try them!
WE DON'T FEAR COMPARISONS; WE SOLICIT THEM.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Garages.
10 A. 151®.
EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Kilds, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding' the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others : it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
99
RFECTION
ITSELF
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD MOTOR.
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running:
3d. per hour.
2J4 B.H.P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
See also Page 2.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device.
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible.
High Tension (waterproof) Rever-
sible Magneto Ignition, of the very
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze;
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON S ROBERTSON.
Sole
Australasian Agents,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
\<WrS
“HAVING A GOOD TIME”
expresses the feelings
Cutlery Manufacture.
of every Shaver who uses this Masterpiece of
The silver-steel blade of
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is the last word in Razor Tempering. Its action is swift, keen and
delightful.
PRICE 10/0— POST FREE.
We keep the “Plum” in good order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
l'he slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritaole Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappeat
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Fashes
Eczema
S-urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
7. Pepper&Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
ECONOMY.
•THREE or four
1 tins of Cerebos
Salt are sufficient
to season at table
all the meals of an
average family for
a whole year. ,
CEREBOS
SALT
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
fJuffyxilleim.
214 George Street, Sydney.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/• per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
The leonine roars of “Billy r u f ..
resound through Britain, and that they .
shake up the parent lion is the devou 1
of that royal and wise spirit, King « o
IV. topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
F.
LOCAL'
imiif)
j
-iv N
.41-
PATRIOTISM
|‘ Your '
Aim?
Then have
ft at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
s
HOT
■?
V.
2
1
X
A
IN BANANA LAND
The Queensland candidate for the tallest-
Kangaroo stakes must stand down to second
place. At Mittagong (N.S.W.) this week
the enlisting officer ran the rule over Pat
O’Connor, and made him out to be 7ft. 3in.
long.
Dave Bowman’s old seat is being fought
for by two ex-Mayors of Brisbane —Geo.
Down (Liberal) and Tom Wilson (Labor).
Wilson is a big, genial chap, an old adherent
of Labor, and likely to make a good political
battler. In the selection ballot on Saturday
he had a run-away win from the other four
candidates.
“Cleveland” describes a collision between
a bad smell and a tangle of red tape:—
A small, excited boy started the trouble. He re-
ported to the inspector of the Society for the
Prevention ‘of Cruelty to Animals that a cow had
broken its leg and was lying near the bank of the
river. The inspector surveyed the cow and asked
the police to destroy it. By the time John Hop
arrived the rising tide had almost drowned the
animal, so he let it go at that and saved a cartridge.
After four days the tide left the corpse under the
window of the chairman of the Harbor Board, who
was also manager of a wholesale house overlooking a
mud flat at low water. The Council was asked to
remove the obscene thing, but, being in tidal water,
it reckoned the unpleasantness was outside its
jurisdiction. Then the harbor-master was appealed
to, but he pointed out that he was only concerned
with preventing people from hurling dead animals
into the wetness, and that he had nothing to do with
them once they were there. The rising tide inter-
rupted the argument, and carried the cow away into
the gathering gloom. It was reported twice before
midnight, once by a canoodling couple who had hired
a boat to get away from the crowded world, and once
by a profane fisherman whose nets it fouled. At
high water an eddy carried it under the Water Police
landing, but the rising tide next morning shifted it
before the inspector could find a regulation govern-
ing the situation. However, he ran'g up the Health
Dept., and said he was distinctly of the opinion that
the Shire Council was responsible. For the next
week the interchange of notes, minutes, communiques,
compliments and profanity proceeded briskly, and the
cow bestowed her patronage all round, whilst the
legal technicalities were argued fiercely. Finally, on
the ninth day, the head serangs of the contending
authorities met and agreed to chuck in ss. each and
commission Dago Charlie to tow the derelict to sea.
Claude Musson, one of Brisbane’s best-
known identities, is dead. Though generally
thought to be a Frenchman, Musson was
really born in St. Kilda (Vic.), whence ho
migrated at an early age to Rockhampton.
He later became a stock and station agent,
and was so successful that he subsequently
transferred his doormat to Brisbane.. He
was a capable business man, an enthusiastic
polo player, a lover of music and a ballroom
exquisite.
When the teachers reached out for more
salary recently they were doubtless inspired
by the experience of the railway men who
had their screws raised a few weeks pre-
viously by over 8 per cent. The pedagogues,
who received merely a chilly reception and a
solemn lecture, have been looking round for
reasons to account for the difference. They
have come to the conclusion that, though
union may be strength, a lot depends on the
strength of the union.
Queensland hoop pine is now being used
for match-making in Melbourne. Swedish
aspen was previously employed for the
locally-split splints, but the Australian
article has proved equal in every way. The
Australian housewife, however, still shows
some reluctance in specifying these home-
made matches. As the Melbourne factory
can turn out 20 million matches a day (four
lights for every individual in the Common-
wealth), and as the Australian match has
made a brilliant recovery from its' early
habit of shooting off hot sparks, it looks as
though there may now be room for further
legislation to discourage the foreign' product.
HE LOVES ME, HE LOVES ME NOT.
LITTLE TOMMY: “Boo-o-oo! God doesn't Jove me!”
PARENT : “What nonsense; God loves all good little boys.”
TOMMY: “Well, He doesn't love me. I've just tried 'Im on a daisy!”
Ships’ officers and others whose business
takes them to the Caroline and Marshall
islands, which formerly belonged to Germany,
agree that the Japs who are in possession
take their occupancy very seriously. No
one can trade without the consent of the
brown man’s administration, and there is
much jealousy of any extension of trade that
isn’t Japanese. Some time ago a quasi-
official pronouncement was issued that Nip-
pon was holding the islands in trust during
the war; and a more energetic trustee you
couldn’t find if you raked the whole earth.
Old Northern battler John Munro hasn’t
given O.K. best yet. He has got the
once-dazzling mine back from the Adelaide
co., and reckons £lO,OOO worth of copper
can be recovered from the water in the mine.
When that is out he wants to potter round
and pick up the lodes again. So “old Jack”
is down south promoting a syndicate in 50
shares, £lOO each, and throws in, besides the
0.1 v., the once much discussed Tartana,
group and the Anglo-Saxon. There was a
time when the public would cheerfully have
given quarter of a million for these three
mines Now Munro wants merely to place
30 shares and take 10 for himself. By the
way, "Ted” Torpy, once chairman of the
O.lv. Co., and always deeply interested in it,
Inis been in a Sydney hospital for many
months hopelessly ill.
Brisbane will have to resort to beer as its
regular beverage if things don’t soon im-
prove First there was the water-supply
scandal, which disclosed that the Board’s
liquid was not even up to the standard of
a sample of septic-tank water which one
alderman produced. Now the chief inspector
of stock declares that one-fifth of the dairy
cows supplying the city are suffering from
tuberculosis. The Ryan Government
announced that it will promptly grapple
with the matter: all diseased cows will be
destroyed and the owners will receive no
compensation. The Government further pro-
poses to refuse trading certificates to any
dairy that is not absolutely free from the
great white plague. But who is responsible
for letting the horror reach these propor-
tions? One-fifth! —surely somebody should
be hanged !
“The Nomad”: The Labor Convention at
Rockhampton decided on the nationalisation
of all hospitals and doctors and the turning
of the pill industry into a Government
monopoly. It is time some attempt was made
to deal properly with the health of the com-
munity. With the whole of the machinery
for treating disease under Government direc-
tion, we might hope for the day when the
syphilis problem will be tackled thoroughly.
To-day the Government and charity are
forced to deal the unpayable part of
the sick trade, while Private Enterprise,
M.D., relieves the of all neces-
sity to . look after the payable portion. An
amalgamation of the two seems a fair thing.
“Spreader”: Re Jimmy Ah Foo, of Bar-
caldine (B. IG/3/YG). It was Longreach
that saw the Ah Foo clan at its top. After
the ’9l strike the eldest girl, Mary, held the
license of the Federal under the thin disguise
of “M. Affoo.” She was perhaps the most
widely-known woman in Queensland in her
day—partly because she ran a sweep on the
Melbourne Cup and pocketed 10 p.c. of the
subscription. “Flash Peter,” the coach-
driver, persuaded her to change her name to
Mclnerny in ’97 or ’9B, and they settled
down to pub life in the old Union in Barcal-
dine. The second girl, Anne, a first-class
bush pianist, married squatter Peter Cam-
eron.
The Resuscitation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I fought with a drowning man’s despair,
As the eddies swung me round,
And the current flung me here and there
Ere I sank to the depths profound ;
And I pictured a dead man’s horrid stare —
A dead man who’s been drowned.
Far off I heard a motor-boat
Chug-chugging down the bay,
And I tried to shout with a choking throat,
And then I tried to pray ;
And I thought how the deep-drowned bodies
bloat
Till they rise to the light of day.
And the chug, chug, chug of the distant boat
Was pulsing in my brain,
Till it seemed like a death-drum’s baleful
note
Exulting in the slain.
And every throb on my senses smote
With a deadly, numbing pain.
Oh, like some ghastly picture-show
My lost life seemed to be,
As it flickered past, now fast, now slow,
And showed all my sins to me;
Till down in the roaring deeps below
I suffered agony.
For I saxv all the wild oats I had sown—
Grim tale of a wasted life,
With its debts, and lies, and vices strown,
With its wickedness and strife;
And I saw all the frail Eves I had known,
And eke my neighbor’s wife.
And the countless follies, long forgot,
Came rushing on amain,
And the little faults, that I heeded not,
Became my greatest bane,
Till I closed my eyes, and tried to blot
This madness from my brain.
When I looked once more great vampire
wdngs
Were closing in on me—
Foul, clammy, crude, amorphous things,
The nightmares of the sea,
All the hideous forms that frenzy brings,
And I strove in vain to flee.
But they followed fast where’er I fled,
With a chug-chug-chugging hiss,
Till I gave a shriek might wake the dead
And plunged in a vast abyss,
Then woke —and the purring dentist said :
“Just rinse your mouth with this !”
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 18, lopj
My Dear Thargomindaii,
• T- he Scho °. l Girls ’’ Swimming w
ciation held a patriotic splash at the S'
Brisbane baths on Saturday.
Governor, Capt. Cosens, A.DC
Sec. Thatcher both Brisbane Mayors £5
Mayoresses, Minister Hardacre and r
handsome wife, and a big crowd of othl'i!
were there to view the mermaids.
Ilis Ex. departed with a mug i n v
pocket for infant Goold-Adams. the useful
piece of hardware being presented on beta
of the Association by Mrs. Story wifpf
the Under-Sec. for Education. ’ 0
Having seen the girl swimmers dnb
launched, Ins Ex. tooted to Eagle Farm
the races. Premier and Mrs Ryan w
there, aud also State Commandant Lee dk
guising his newly-acquired rank of Brigadier'
General in a blue suit.
Last week Geo. V.’s representative officially
opened the “White City,” the new recreation
centre at the Enoggera camp. There is
open-air theatre, a stadium, a gymnasium i
billiard hall (with six tables), a shooting
gallery and a soda fountain. All is free to
the khaki boys and their best girls—excent
the soda fountain, where a nominal charge
is made. The whole outfit was paid for bv
profits from the canteen, the men themselves
supplying the labor. Major Dockings, the
well-known Rockhampton architect, Capt
Norman Bell, the engineer, and Lieut. Grant
Hanlon, well known in the theatrical world
were the originators and supervisors of this
splendid scheme to keep the rec-ruities
smiling.
The Wool Spinning Guild is making satis-
factory progress. Two or three capable
ladies with wheels are already clamoring for
something to spin. The Guild has not found
a home yet, but so soon as it does business
will commence.
On St. Patrick’s Eve the streets were as
green as the Emerald Isle. Workers for the
Croix Rouge were busy selling badges, slabs
of peat, pressed shamrocks, shillelaghs and
sliaughrauns, in aid of the French sick and
wounded. Mrs. T. B. Steele collected a
concert party, herded them on a lorry, and
gave sing-songs, with excellent financial
results, at various spots round the city.
The usual procession and concert were
held on St. Pat’s Day, but the turn-out was
not so elaborate as in other years. The one
lorry in the procession was a tribute to
Irishmen who have fallen in the war.
The new Church of England hut at Enog-
gera is to be opened next Thursday. Lieut. -
Gov. Morgan’s dame and Mrs. Le Fanu will
hold an At Home at the hut that afternoon.
Magnus Fisher, whose tuneful tenor has
been raised at many patriotic concerts dur-
ing the last few months, goes into camp next
week.
Sergt. Clarice Adams, of the 15th Bat-
talion, who is a son of Montford Adams, of
a chemical co. down south, has presented
the lialf-hoop of impending matrimony to
Miss Mabel Hagen.
The Sandbag League recently became very
annoyed with the Defence Department for
advertising for tenders for 2G.000 bags after
telling voluntary workers that no more were
required. It now appears that the bags
required were of a special kind for the artil-
lery. So peace has been declared and the
sandbag enthusiasts have decided to take
up spinning instead and hand the accumu-
lated cash over to other patriotic funds.
Mrs. Joe Drake, who was one of Bris-
bane’s prettiest girls when she was Gladys
Markwell, has dropped in from Detroit
(U.S.A.). Her husband, her babies, a nurse,
a maid and a chauffeur were among her lug-
gage.
Friday will be Club Hut Day., The
original plan of turning Isles-Loves lane
into an Eastern bazaar has been abandoned
on account of the expense, but the lane wn
still be lined with stalls. At night the Bris-
bane Operatic Players will give a conceit
in the Exhibition Ilall.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Loco” : If the Queensland railways want
to clip a bit off the deficit, there sal'
cash to be made in the transhipping busine.>
at Wallangarra, now in the hands o •
Enterprise. During the recent dry spell. v '
fodder was rolling in at the rate of abou
trains a day, up to 100 men were constant'
employed. The transhipping rate 18 IS- P
ton, and there should be a comfortable
gin of profit with labor at Bs. a day. ■
the work is not done by the Railway D P •
seems a large size in mysteries.


VI
i
■s
a
m
4*
1
si
A*
■
TOOTH’S
A Drink for all
Times and
Places .
A mild, agree-
able beverage —
possessing all the
tonic properties of
hand-picked hops, together with
the food value of ripe, malted barley.
A brew of unsurpassed excellence.
“Ask for Tooths Light Crystal.”
1


Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
Carters
HTTLE
IVER
PILLS.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit te amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—-
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/-
ALBERT & 00., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents —- LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
- W. 11. SOUL PATTINSON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, etc.
Druids’ Art Union
Total Value of Prizes, £750.
Ist PRIZE, £400; 2nd PRIZE, £lOO.
Value Guaranteed.
100 Prizes. TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
Upon receipt of postal note for 1/- ticket
will be forwarded to any part of the Com-
monwealth. Do not delay. Send postal
note and addressed envelope to the Secre-
tary,
R. A. BARRY.
715 George Street, Sydney.
“Well gentlemen I take
off my hat to you,—
such a beautifu’ly
made rifle and such
shooting I never
expected to see...
Up to 800 yards I
could hit anything
I I shot at... I killed
I a big bull, over 500
yards away, and did
it so easy ... The
‘ Ross ’ is good
enough for me... It
has a nice balance,
is light and has a
nice feel to it. I
will say to anyone who is looking for the
best thing in Rifles get a ‘Ross’ .280,
and you will never be disappointed.”
JAS. L. McLAUGHLIN, Hunter and Guide,
Valley, Wyoming.
In his enthusiastic praise of the Ross .280
Rifle, Mr. McLaughlin echoes the apprecia-
tion of the most skilled of the big game
hunters all over the world. Using the .280
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper tube
expanding bullet ( patented ) it is a wonderful
help towards a successful trip. Any game
fairly kit is anchored. 1015
AT LEADING DEALERS
Illustrated catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —-
Mr. HI GH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
AVoy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Soldiers* Presents
Latest Novelty, Case with Metal
Mirror, Silver Pencil, Fountain
Pen, Pocket Knife .. 18 6
Other Combinations.
12 6, 7/6, 6/6
The New Bullet-proof Pocket
Book, steel through both
covers 12 6
Send for latest List of 80 Gifts
to select from.
ROTHWELL'S LTD.,
Edward Street,
Brisbane
* Machine
Wlth 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 Y rtTAI’ WRITTE N
GUARANTEE
acked&De |iv ered p tet
A»N.A, Sewing
Machine
Vl/te/V VICTORIA Mark,:*',
(neat' TovYn Hall), sVdney
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth streetjFobff e#t
'-b
a
Drs. Wlni polo and Harley*Stfeete,
Compare their not eg whene *er tb6ymeet>
Aiid it pleases un to hear them
f hty 're prescribing* Jelloids' every day*
After taking IRON ‘JeILOID3* the blood beboities enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed; Antetnia
quickly disappears, giving place to Vigorous and buoyant Spirits;
IRON ‘ JELLoids ’ are commended by the Medical Prbfessibti.
The “ Nursing Record and Hospital World" : —“The prices of them
“are very moderate, and the invention deserves the approval of the
“ Medical Profession, which it is obtaining in such a marked measure.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince yon,
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2k. (containing Quinine);
For Children, NO. 1, Sold ift Friglarid at 1/1| dnd 2/ 9. per bok,
Obtainable at all Chemista throughout Australia;
Wk'dlesnlei Druggists’ Sundries Ltd.’, 82, Pitt Street-, Sydney, N.S.W,
't-o-
■nartn
Lora.
>* .a-rf «,-
--■
-m
o
V
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to die principal
Royalty thrdugHotlf tHe World'
this means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
erine
Proven Remedy
FOR
N eurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
Klo other Medicine h-s received sucH ahsolu'&>prddf dfiti
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutidnsi
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Li r e and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority @rt all matters relating to health writes:—
“1 have the utmost faith and relianfejS iti Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility;
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
m
JMJWUM
9
Messrs. Ashton (& Parsons Ltd, of
' Vondon, would appreciate your courtesy! if, street
with a substitute not bearing their name, you Would post the package t© Coll«o» Street
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the , cost or pw
i refunded to you. 1 I '
■
The British Brand protects you
against foreign-made inferior goods
“So**:
Quality Stockings and Socks
lor Ladies. Children & Men
No German or other foreign make can compare with
itish brand, for fineness of finish a nasi Iky
this best British brand, for fineness ui um»« "7“" .'
comfort. Australasian pure wool is used in the
manufacture of Jason, by the world s best
hosiery makers —the people of Leicester.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks —which ar
all-wool, and of soft, silkv finish. See the Jas
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jaso
Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
Tab on every pair.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, En|.
A. 6s ®
The record for rapid promotion so far is
held by Lieut.-Colonel Austin,-of the Cheshire
Regiment. On August 30, 1914, he enlisted
as a private after a spell as a territorial and
passed rapidly up the ladder till within 14
months he was on the roof of a battalion as
lieutenant-colonel. It’s a great life if you
can last and the men above you have the
bad luck to fall off.
David Hall, the Ma State’s Attorney-
General and leading price mixer, is a fearful
and wonderful butter merchant. The net
loss upon the State, importations of butter
last year was in the vicinity of £B5OO, mainly
due to the awful stuff Davy acquired in
America and had to embalm at great expense
in Sydney before hurrying it off to London.
For that shipload the Government paid £5
odd per box. Davy spent about £lBOO on
getting rid of it at £3 a box.
The Sydney State politician is pointing
out the absurdity of attempting to fix prices
in Melbourne for all Australia. It isn’t
more absurd than the attempt to fix prices
in Sydney for Tibooburra; but the small
State politician is quite prepared to tackle
that. Pearce’s proclamation has at least
one virtue: it has given the clumsy price-
fixers a dose of their own quack medicine.
They want a lot for the money up Terror's
Creek way. A local timber co. explained its
requirements in Brisbane Courier thus : —
Wanted, man, capable Of taking charge of country
sawmill, must hold seeOnd-class engine-driver’s cer-
tificate, take ehalge double-entry set of books,
capable of sharpening saws, working planing
machine, and use broad axe, also saw bench, if
necessary. State wages required.
Wages? What does a man like that want
wages for? Why not also insist that he be
possessed of private means?
“Gordon G.”: It seems to me that this
abuse hurled at “shirkers” is a bit mis-
directed. The blame should be transferred
to the Government and the politicians
who yell the loudest. If a man is constantly
being told by posters and politicians and
returned soldiers and jilted flappers thfit his
country needs him. Surely a fair reply ,is
that his country has Pot acquainted him
with the fact. If his cbuiltr.y really needs
him, why not apprise him by handing him a
gun instead of wild remarks? A man is not
a shirker Until he shirks his duty, and offi-
cially his duty is to please himself. If the
voluntary system doesn’t mean that, what
docs it mean?
From General-manager Pringle* of the
Electric Supply Co. of Victoria
Regarding “R.’s” remark* (Ik. iO/3/’i6) relative
to our Ballarat and Beftdigo tramways. He tells
you that since the war began the Austral iart-bo’r A
employees are comparatively few; in fabt-, that the
majority have been replaced with immigrants. lam
quite sure that TnS Bulletin will net permit such
an utterly erroneous statement to remain in evidence.
At Ballarat we have b’rtly ftve “Home” men among
the employees in Olir tramways, power Station and
lighting departments, numbering 1(13'. Of these only
three motormeh and conductors are “Home” men’,
and only ode has Web engaged since the war started’,
the other t\V6 having been with us nearly Si years’.
One “Home” conductor is already on dctlVe Service.
Ex-Queeh AnWlie of Portugal, besides
having hbh certificate as a trained nurse,
hAS a medical degree. She’s been helping in
some of the English hospitals for mouths;
Lately she picked out an Austrdlifiii Light
Horseman, Sergeant Ffir'quharson, and mar-
velled at his height. Wounded in the Galli-
poli campaign, the big Kangaroo was in
lslesworth Hospital when the very tall
queen out of a job shook hands with him.
“It's a pleasure to meet a man taller than
I am,” said she. To which the casual
tralian might have suggested that sliß should
take a trip to the lan'd of tall men and
Women ttnd enjoy herself thoroughly.
Victor Grayson hands in his verdict on
Holman :
I am only a stranger in this country, but I ven-
ture to assert that old Sisyphlis havB a
serious rival if 1 had tQ remember all the thirgs I
have heard and read for and against the Premier of
N. S. Wales. He has been accused of making a
living out of politics (which happehs to be his pro-
fession) ; of endeavoring to govern with an iron
hand an ungovernable community ; of governing whell
he ought not to govern, and idee versa; and of being
devilishly clever. He has been called a knave and a
statesman —and all that rot.
I have never met Mr. Holman, and he has not been
thoughtful enough to prepay me for this note. I
am a green “pommy,” and my judgments- of men
have been formed without regard to the Whimsies of
Australian politics. To me, thus circumstanced, Holman
looks about the broadest and thickest mind on Aus-
tralia’s soil. As a politician, per se, he could box the
compass and backwards while the bulk of his contem-
poraries were holding salt for the tails of seagulls.
I khow a lot about lawyer Hughes, and I have
drunk the bad health of Senator Pearce at 10.30 (in
a public place). But I still maintain that Holman
is the most effective wise man in Australia. I have
read his speeches and photographs from the first, and
I have compared them with the speeches and photo-
graphs of Loxton, K.C. The result is that I prefer,
and to some extent admire, Holman.
Unlike most Premiers, Holman can keep his head
in a panic. He may do many rotten things, but he
never slips on the middle premise. If a gang of
inchoate warriors break loose on the day following
the Sabbath he resolutely declines to ascribe the
mutiny to the church services which had gone
before. When hysterical females and converted drunk-
ards have commanded him to abolish liquor he has
wisely, if somewhat mischievously, thrown upon them
the onus of a referendum. While they rave about
the ravages of drink he meets the farmers and sanely
discusses the problem of irrigation. “Bill” Holman
is much of a politician, and the good God will pro-
bably pardon his political misdeeds. But I hold the
opinion that if his mind were stretched out it
would hold the combined minds of the main Opposi-
tion and leave room for the Yanco area. Major
Profesor David is not the same kind of statesman as
Mr. Holman, and the same diagnosis applies to the
learned Major’s articulate wife. This, perhaps, ex-
plains why the Davids call Holman a base recreant,
and why Holman never shouts back. I can’t excuse
him for shaking hands with a German chemist, but
I must admit that he risked it. And I am glad that
he declined to throw acorns on the rugged rind of
French’s Forest.
I don’t allege that Holman is a great man but I
have instructed my daughter to tell her son to throw
a few flowers at the base of the statue which balmy
posterity will surely erect to him.


a
0
**
>; y y
1
'J/YY,
/
Pi
C
\
u
•J
I 111
ujv3 a g
n
mm
O
:
:::
?:§:i
£
M
T;
■#
r
‘NS
>»ss
??
if*
ssss
S:-:;SS:
‘lssvlv
*ss;
V:
a
%
%
O
<Ti
o
&
%<P.
%
s
m
&
Good looking, tastefully dressed, nice manners, but —a bad
breath. This has caused the social and business failure of
many men and women, and always will, for a bad breath is
highly disagreeable to those with whom he or she comes in contact.
Those who are in perfect health are never afflicted with bad
breath. It is a result of some disorder of the digestive system,
such as indigestion, constipation or liver trouble.
To sweeten the breath take a course of Chamberlain s Tablets.
They cleanse the stomach and stimulate the bowels to perform
their work, thus clearing the system of all foul matter that causes
bad breath. Be sure and get the genuine
Chamberlains Tablets
Jfar the. Stomacn o Livep.
l i
Why Stay Thin and Undeveloped ?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development
lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust develop-
ment, hollow cheeks and “salt cellars” quickly
take from a woman the bloom and freshness of
healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been
your lot in so far as natural development is con-
cerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never
been full-bosomed, and have been attenuated all
your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease,
your bosom can be fully developed and your
weight increased to normal There are to-day
hundreds of 'vyomen who were once thin, fiat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in
appearance, and suffering the effects of anaemia and
defective digestion, who are now for the first time m
their lives healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked,
and enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as
the result of a few weeks under
DR. “FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.”
“Flesh-Food” is totally harmless in every respect.
Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is no
demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have
gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in
bust measurement up to eight and ten inches is pos-
sible. “Flesh-Food” offers relief and development to
the thousands of chronically thin women who have
despaired of ever possessing a presentable figure. It
is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight
and permanent development to attenuated woman.
Guarantee given in every case accepted.
The best evidence of what it may do for you is
What Flesh-Food has done for thousands of
others, whose grateful evidence we give.
The Manager, „ ® s P er “ nCe ’ W ,
Dear Sir, —Yours to hand. I am pleased to tell you that the result of
your Flesh-Food has fully exceeded my expectations. I have put on flesh and
increased in weight so rapidly that I discontinued taking the treatment,
although I have about a quarter of the supply left, and I was afraid I would
get too stout. I am very grateful to you for your attention, and I cannot
speak too highly of your remedy, which I will recommend whenever I have
an opportunity. Yours truly, F. W. NELSON.
LET US SEND YOU SCORES
OF SPLENDID GRATEFUL
LETTERS.
“Kiara,”
The Manager. Westville, N.S.W.
Wear Sir, —
I have finished the treatment, and I am
more than pleased with the result. I have
gained both in weight and measurements, and
find myself in much better health than for a
long time past. Really, the results of your
treatment are wonderful, and in such a short
time, too.
Thanking you for all you have done for me.
Yours sincerely,
S. BOARDJIAN.
SATISFIED WITH FIGURE NOW.
The Manager,— Waingake, N.Z.
Dear Sir, —In reply to your letter I am glad
to let you know that I do not require any
further treatment. I have certainly improved
in health, and I am quite satisfied with my
figure now.
Thanking you for your assistance. —I beg
to remain, yours sincerely,
ELSIE BOWER.
A NURSE’S EVIDENCE.
Manager,— Gympie, Q.
Dear Sir, —As a nurse I was very interested
in your Flesh-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case.
When I first wrote to you I was only skin
and bone, and I have good cause to be thank-
ful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I
feel certain now that I am one of the very
best advertisements you could possibly have,
as I am developed in every way satisfactory
to myself, and I have waited a good while to
prove if it was lasting in its effect, and I am
now glad to say that your splendid treatment
has done all you claimed it would, my weight
and measurements being ample.—l am, yours
gratefully, Mrs. E. WINGROVE.
GAINED OVER A STONE.
Dear Sirs, — Minlaton, Sth. Aust.
Since using Flesh-Food I have gained over
141 b., which makes me now 11 stone, so that
I have no need for any more treatment.
Thanking you for your kindness, I remain,
yours truly,
S. DANNENBERG.
BEST POSSIBEE TREATMENT.
The Manager, Herons Creek.
Dear Sir, —Words fail entirely to express
my gratitude for what your great remedy
has done for me. I think Flesh-Food is the
best treatment possible under the circum-
stances, because it is more than certain in its
effect.
I have gained satisfactorily in weight, also
in measurements, and health greatly improved
as the result of your treatment. With many
thanks and kind regards.—Yours gratefully,
Mrs. ELIZABETH MCCARTHY.
FREE SAMPLE
We want you to know what “Flesh-
Food” is, and will gladly give you a free
sample. Send 2d. stamp and let us for-
ward you a free trial sample and our in-
structive book, “Lovely Women,” on at-
tenuation. All correspondence is confi-
dential and private, and all our literature
is sent closely covered and free from
observation. Write at once. Call if con-
venient. Lady Attendant. (5505)
HOURS: 10 to 4.30 DAILY.
FALLIERE CO.,
1103 Ash Street, SYDNEY,


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Dtd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIV O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES 5 WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF J 'AVORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
TIVOLI THEATRE, ME I, MO URN E.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
A BIG BOOM!
TIVOLI FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
'Plan at Glen’s.
|_| E K M A J E S T Y ’ S, S Y 1) N U Y.
j EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present a Dashing,
' Dumps-Defving Delight,
SO LONG, LETTY.
With a brilliant cast.
Plans Piling’s. Day Sales Callose's.
QR ITERION T II EA T It E. SYDNEY.
( NIGHTLY AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Realistic Production of
! UNDER EIRE.
A vivid dramatic story of -the violation of Belgium.
Plan at Paling’s.
Prices as • usual.
E WHITE C I T
Ruslicutter’s Bay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICK, General Manager.
vmmvmm
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, General
Union Theatres Limited, presents the
Manager
new
AAA
T RIANGLE PLAYS AX
1 THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
MENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6<5. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
gYO N E Y TO\V N H A Ll 7
Beginning SATURDAY, MARCH 25, for Eight Days.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager Union
Theatres, Ltd., presents
BRITAIN PREPARED.
Under the Distinguished patronage of His Excel-
lency the Governor-General and Lady Helen Munro
Ferguson; and of His Excellency the Governor Sir
Gerald Strickland ; Senator Pearce, Minister for
Defence.
The 10,000 ft. Official War Films, showing every
branch of Britain’s war activities. As exhibited at
the Empire, London, under the patronage of their
Majesties King George V. and Queen Mary.
Plan at Paling's. 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. No Booking Fee.
The garden t jfi eat u e,
BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST.
One (1) Minute from top William Street.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
DANDIES COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
CHANGE PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY.
Prices 2/6 (Reserved), 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre ’Phone: William Street 512.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrixgton Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 25.
The Opera of Imperishable Popularity,
THE ME 11 B Y IV J DOW,
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 25.
And EVERY EVENING.
HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL
in
T WIN BEDS.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 25.
First appearance of GEORGE MARLOW’S
SIIAKSPEARIAN CO. ill Shakspeare’s Love Tragedy,
ROMEO & JULIET.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Amusements.
KINO’S THEATRE, MEX.BO U R N E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
Direction PHILIP LYTTON LTD.
Representative GEO. L. MERRIMAN.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PHILIP LYTTON presents
THE WAYBACKS
AT HOME AND IN TOWN.
THE COMEDY THAT CATCHES EVERYBODY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
U FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .. BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8. Now Appearing:—-
GEORGE DIYON. direct from America, ROSEAL &
ROSS, LEONARD NELSON, CHARLES & ANNA
GLOCKER, EARLY & LAIGHT, VICTOR THE
GREAT, HAZEL MORRIS, JOE CHARLES & THE
GLORY GIRL, GLEN ECHO, LA FRANCE BROS.,
ROSE IVY LEE.
Prices3/-,~2/- and 1/-, Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
O V T’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHO W S.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince's Bridge.
gIRCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
MEDLEYS
JrAU-DE-COLOGn^
If Yardley's were ordinary
E.au-de-Cologne it would
not be to-day pre-dominant
in all the export markets
of the world. Fashionable
London approved of it for
145 years—to-day the
world approves!
#
In buying YARDLEY’S
Eau-de-Cologne you know
you get the product of
experience—a richly-aro-
matic and pleasantly-
fragraut perfume.
Ask for
caa
-(k-Cowffne
Early-Morning Fatigue,
When you awake in the morning feeling
tired out, feeling worse in fact than when
you went to bed, you are confronted with
one of the characteristic symptoms of neu-
rasthenia. It is due to the run-down condi-
tion of the nerves that rest does not bring
renewed strength and sleep refresh the tired
brain. Overwork and worry are the most
frequent causes of this condition.
The treatment is one of nutrition of the
nerve cells, requiring a. non-alcoholic tonic.
As the nerves get their nourishment from
the blood the treatment must be directed
towards building up the blood. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills act directly on the blood, and with
proper regulation of the diet have proved of
the greatest benefit in many cases of neu-
rasthenia. A tendency to anaemia, or blood-
lessness, shown by most neurasthenic
'patients, is also corrected by these tonic nills.
Your own dealer sells Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, or they will be sent by mail on receipt
of price, 2s. 9d. per box; six boxes for
15s. 3d. Begin the treatment at once befdl'e
your condition becomes worse, as there is a
chronic form of neurasthenia.
Two useful books. “Diseases of the Nerv-
ous System” and “What to Eat and How to
Eat,” will be sent free by the Dr- Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney, if you mention this
paper.—Advt. - -
Do You Feel Sluggish?
11- is' probable that most chronic constipa-
tion is due to failure to teach and insist
upon regularity of habits during childhood.
Constipation quickly contaminates the
blood, deranges the nervous system and
upsets the entire health. The victim becomes
drowsy, irritable, restless, has bad dreams
and is mentally and physically sluggish.
In the new laxative, Pinkettes, is pre-
sented a dainty, sugar-coated oval that is -
free from unpleasant effects, do.es not upset
the stomach nor gripe, but simply 'gives
nature the needed assistance.-
Y\ rite to the Dr. Yftlliams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney,- mentioning Tite Bulletin, for a
free sample, or get a full-size Is. bottle of
Pinkettes from your own chemist.—Advt.
DAIMLER
<
**•&£**
Slotor Carriages ~
Cowerciae Vehicles ~
AfiHCDLTIIRAL 'fRACTORS
™ E DAIMLER
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
\T VV' Xi~ WW'j /“N /-V /-
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
~r^o 0 /. Book - CURES Write for Boole
BL,GHT - falling eyelashes, weak sight
». GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng,
Insist on “Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
THE
MAGIC INKERASEr]
Only 1/3 each
posted anywhere
smmm&wmi
Very Easy to use
Strong and Durable
Instantly removes writing and printing like magic,-leaves the]
paper perfectly clean and smooth. It is a dry cleaning pro-
or t. rotible. llie UnionXo.. 299EJizabeth St., Melb.]
F. I. A.T. Motor Lorries
For Transporting your Wool, Wheat, Dary Produce, etc.
THEY ARE CIVINC SATISFACTION IN ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
A FEW COUNTRY USERS—
Messrs. W. E. Bramble & Sons, Newcastle. Mr. H. C. Bottle, Crookwell.
Messrs. G. M. Hayward & Co., Rylstone. Mr. H. M. Johnston, Windsor.
Mr. F. Hodge, Hill End. Nimbin Dairy Co., Richmond River.
The Jamberoo Co-operative Dairy Co., Jamberoo.
The Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission, Murrumbidgee.
vfi»j
V
r
e
m
2j-3 TON LORRY CHASSIS 2j-3 TON
ARE NOW AVAILABLE.
Send for Particulars.
GARRATTS LTD.
173-175 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
TEL. CITY 583, 584
ALICK McNEIL, Gen. Manager.
vtei
;■£ -v
For All
Occasions
where High-grade Footwear is
essential.
ABBEY SHOES
are recognised as THE Footwear.
We illustrate a highest-grade
Patent Kid Button Boot, perfor-
ated Golosh and Fawn Calf Legs.
Price - 42/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A b¥e y,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Every home
should possess
an Edison
PHONOGRAPH
Apart from its wonderful value as an
entertainer it is pre-eminent as an edu-
cator, giving children an opportunity to
hear beautiful music which they might
not hear in any other way, and thereby
cultivating a musical taste among them-
To hear Edison Records is to hear great
artists and clever performers at their
best. The Edison Phonograph offers
greater value than any, other sound-
reproducing instrument, and is the only
machine upon which satisfactory records
can be made at home.
Ask your nearest Edison dealer to let jou
hear a New Blue Amberol Record on an
Edison Phonograph—and decide for } our-
self.
Catalog mailed on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
-
2*
When Grey Hair begi
to show, rejuvenate
your ap P e arance
with
RAY’S
dye.
Harmless# * n<l In '
stantaneous.
33 different shades-
Post pattern o
hair with order.
/10,7/lM°/ 9 ’
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH*
22 & 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbou


//
l'!-U
FACE BATHING WITH
Cuticura Soap Most Soothing to
Sensitive Skins. Trial Free.
Especially when followed by little
touches of Cuticura Ointment to red,
rough, itching and pimply surfaces.
Nothing better for the skin than these
fragrant super-creamy emollients.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sold throughout the world.
Hi
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A US TRALLAN A GENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Md Tyres That
A
heavy load over
rough byways
only emphasises
the sterling merits of
BARNET
GLASS
TRUCK
TY RES
They are built to give solid
service and to maintain the
"quality reputation" of the
makers.
They succeed in both !
Miles Cheaper and
Australian
**x« *:.'•*
SjS
cc
U-l <
03
c a
N
£
ID
*1
vn
ID
h-
H—
g ti
DC d
CCs
lixi
M
5
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
. -1 Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paving office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F, E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Ivnox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 .. £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £ 5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
::7
J
nOL
sL.-
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On tlie top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy that they feel just like one’s best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well made that they look and, after quite
a lot of weir. co'-H-e to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable. ;
Rostock No.
P 6472
None genuine
unless stamped
831
On sale at all leading: stores. Look
for the name “Bostock'’ on the soles.
0
0
0
A
'////
m
*
lilllli miiiilllliinnitll/L
Guard Against Substitution
The “ VALET ” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only AutoSlrop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia :
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN,
The Inky Way.
"Been There”: The yarn about the
troubles of a sub-editor (B. 27/1/T6)
makes no mention of a very solid one —the
nasty-minded man. Bfcme of the most
ordinary, innocent words in the language can
be made to have an unpleasant suggestive-
ness if the context happens to be appro-
priate. Often, a careless or tired reporter
doesn’t notice how his story may be twisted.
Generally the sub. does notice, and the sen-
tence is changed. Occasionally it gets
through—and then the nasty-minded beast
does the twisting without fail. When he
comes along to gloat over the incident he has
—in my experience—a choice of three open-
ing remarks. Jocular: “You’re a nice fellow
to be the guardian of the public morals!”
Sham-serious: “I say, young fellow, the
police are looking for you.” Casual: “They
are paying half a crown for copies of your
paper this morning.” Then you wearily
reach for the file, to see what phrase his
perverted ingenuity can pervert this time.
This kind of beast has been known to hold a
page of The Bulletin up to the light, to
make two pictures on different pages blend
into a fancied impropriety. He is a (cen-
sored) hog.
Ages of some of Sydney’s newspaper
chiefs on the literary side: T. W. Heney
(editor of S. M. Herald), 53; C. Brunsdon
Fletcher (associate-editor of S. M.
Herald), 57; Frank Gellatly (commercial
editor S. M. Herald), 43; D. D. Braham
(editor Daily Telegraph), 41; Tom Court-
ney (D.T.’s chief leader-writer), 55; John
Sandes (D.T.), 53; R. L. Nash (commercial
editor D.T.), 08; Monty Grover (Sun),
45; Richard Coombes (Referee), 58, Hec-
tor Lamond (Worker), 51.
* * * *
“J.P.”: Northcliffe and his brother Lord
Ilothermore have just retired from the
Board of the Amalgamated Press, Ltd.
Northcliffe, who has not taken any active
part in the gigantic business for two or three
years, will be succeeded in the chair by
G. A. Sutton, one of the first directors. The
Amalgamated Press is really the concern that
Northcliffe and his brother founded in 1906,
under the title of liarmsworth Bros., to take
over the business previously carried on by
the same management as Answers Publica-
tions, Ltd. The capital of the concern is
now £1,219,500, and it has been a staggering
money maker right from the start. For the
past io years the ordinary shareholders have
yearlv been presented with a dividend of 40
per cent., Nvhile for 1912-13 a bonus of an
additional 30 per cent, was thrown in to try
to get rid of a lot of extra cash that was
beginning to clutter the way. In spite. of the
war the company is still doing exceptionally
well, and a 40 per cent, dividend is fully
expected for the financial year just ended.
* * * *
“T.F.” : In Mrs. R. L. Stevenson’s lately-
published South Sea cruise book there is a
characteristic sample of the feminine passion
for inaccuracy. The book is titled “The
Cruise of the Janet Nicliol,” and the name
of the steamer is mis-spelled all through. If
the great novelist’s lady had only taken the
trouble to copy the spelling from the ship’s
bow, or stern, or her lifebuoys, or boats, or
buckets, or the captain’s log, or the ship’s
papers, or even from the newspapers, she’d
have made it “Nicoll” and have been right.
But she lived on the Janet Nicoll for three
and a half months and yet didn’t notice a
thing like that. The Janet in those days
was a Henderson and Macfarlane hooker
under the “Circular Saw” flag, and when
she wasn’t hunting the atolls and islands
for copra and dried sharks’ fins she was
hauling coal out of Newcastle. She dis-
tinguished herself at the time of the big
maritime strike 25 years ago by struggling
out of the coal port for Auckland with a
crew of green hands who eouldn t tell the
bunkers from the fo’c’s’le-head. She was
square-rigged for’ard in those years, and
one stormy night on that exasperating run
the first and second mate and the bo’s’n had
to shin up aloft and stow the topsails them-
selves because the rest of the crew were
either too seasick or too scared to tackle the
job.
* * * *
Frederic Coleman, the latest war-corres-
pondent to visit these parts on business, is a
stout, good-natured Yankee who has brought
a wife —whom he speaks of as “a good sport”
and a daughter with him. The antithesis
of the cold Ashmead Bartlett, when
he was welcomed by the local press gang he
made a speech, or perhaps he was
reciting an epic, in which he laid bare his
career from the cutting of his primal gum
to date. This neutral journalist is “some
talker all right.”
THE SNUB-EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sub.’s a sour, dyspeptic person who has never
learned to write,
And couldn’t dashed well do it if he tried;
But he sits and snubs the copy of the men who can
each night,
Spoiling carefully each sentence, with an asinine
delight;
Then he contemplates his ghoulish deeds with
pride.
He remembers the initials of each d—-d nonentity
And that in this paper “czar” is always “tsar,”
Also headlines must have verbs, no report must
start with “the,”
There are three “d’s” in the futile name of
“Doddgerwick, J.P.,”
And that persons who have died have “crossed the
bar.”
He knows the many things the Censor will not let
you say,
But he hasn’t read a book since he was born,
So your scholarly allusions never see the light of
day,
And your epigrams he slaughters, in his dull and
ruthless way,
And you read the stodge and marvel in the morn !
News-editors are decent coves with whom to have a
meal,
And the printer is a brother in a pub ;
Even chiefs-of-staff may sometimes to one’s better
side appeal,
But no kindly human sentiment a journalist can feel
For the blighter who is paid to sit and snub !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


GUNS and RIFLES
- of Reliability and Accuracy.
810. “WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate, Ollm
weight 2Jlb. '
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight 221 G
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/8 Inter-State.
WE STOCK ...
EVERYTHING FOR EVERY
SPORT
“Goods right Prices right.”
SPORTING REPAIR WORK A SPECIALTY.
817. “ITHACA” Arms Co.’s Hammerless
D. B. B. L. Pigeon Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitro steel, 32-inch barrels, both
choke, Greener cross bolt, high, file-cut rib, pistol-grip, chambered for
2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, tested for nitro; weight, 71b. to 7£lb.
Delivered £7
We can supply the above gun in 16-gauge, at £7/10/-
am
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Mode
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide
action, for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage—2/- N.S.W.; 3/8 Inter-State.
55
SWEET CROP
Smoking
Mixture.
Really
Delightful.
Sample Tin
1/- post free.
828. BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over
all weight 3f lb., handles short or
long cartridges,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.; 2/8 Inter-State.
GUN AND
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Specialty
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, round steel, 22in. barrel, case-
hardened frame, solid breech block, take-down O O
action, open front and rear sights, weight 4Rb.
We can supply the above Rifles, fitted with Beach Combination Front Sitrht anfl
Vernier Rear (as illustrated), 40/-
22WRF, 25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/fi each pvt™
Postage—l/9 N.S.W.; * O n extra.
3/2 Inter-State.
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free Anywhere.
*aS
89. “ Winchester " Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model ,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21 in
Heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight
length of rifle over all, 37iin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip’
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b. 07IC
Postage—l/9 N.S.W.; 3/2 Inter-State.
Mick Simmons h
NAYIIARKET
•SYDNEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 1 IP KINO STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
The
Correct
Feeding of
Infants
NO attempt to provide a
correct system for the
progressive feeding of
Infants was ever successfully
carried out until the Adlen-
burys’ series of Infants’ Foods
were introduced. So successful
have the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
Nos. I, 2 and 3 proved, that
whenever a child is denied the
privilege of the mother’s milk
they are indispensable. Gratifying evidence
of their remarkable value in the feeding
of infants from birth is constantly coming
to hand. The following is a copy of one
of many such voluntary letters received
from Medical Men, Nurses and Parents
resident in nearly all parts of the world.
A NURSE WRITES:
“I am pleased to say I have used your Foods 1,2 and 3 for the
last twenty years and have found none better. The
most delicate baby ever born I nursed and reared on the
Foods until he was 3 years old, and now he is 13 YEARS, and
a strong healthy boy nearly 6 leet high and as rosy as an
apple. You can make whatever use you like of this as I
should like your Foods and other things to be more used in
future, as instead of making fat alone they make
bone and muscle, which is what children need.
(Signed) NURSE DAVIE.
The practical results from a continually extending use of the
‘Allenburys’ Foods, prove beyond doubt that children thrive excep-
tionally well on them. Such children are healthy and well grown; the
flesh is firm, without excess of fat and the formation of bone is solid.
‘SllenburgsFffids
The Best Alternative to Human Milk. h
•w
\V(
—mi ._ . ~*f*s*sSSf (
MILK FOOD No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
[Wj
jrra
’»oc
u *
knanburys
MILK FOOD No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Si
>*>>»
MALTED FOOD No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition to baby's dietary when 10 months old and after.
Writefor free book“leif ant Feeding and Management,”
S 4 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Cb„ Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Soldiers in
Europe like it
They have written- home
repeatedly for this great
Chewing Sweet
WRIGLEYSw
SPEARMINT
Send some to your soldier boy.
It quenches thirst, steadies
the nerves, soothes, refreshes,
benefits.
A delicious aid to teeth,
throat, appetite and digestion.
3d* per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and Stores ; of
address J. C* Gambles & Co.,
Commerce House,
Melbourne*
OH
£*c
r
AS?
Made in
Australia
for Australians
by Australians.
Be
Sure it’s
Wrigle/s
Chew it after every meal


HUNGRY AS A BEAR
AND CAN’T EAT.
If when meal-time comes you suffer from a
Yes-IMo kind of Hunger, you’re a Dyspeptic.
How to Treat All Stomach Troubles.
A great many people get angry when
you tell them they’ve got dyspepsia, but
way down deep in their stomachs they
know they’ve got it. “I’d love to eat it,
but I can’t,” is one kind of dyspepsia.
“I hate to think of it” is another kind.
There are thousands of people to-day
who hate their meals and love them at
the same time. They haven’t that fine
empty-hungry, eat-everything-in-sight
kind of feeling which goes with every
good healthy stomach.
And then there are others whose
mouths don’t water at meal time or at
any other time. They sit at the table
and go through the motions only because
it’s time to eat. These people, too, are
dyspeptics. Poor appetite, loss of
strength, nervousness, headache, offen-
sive breath, heartburn, indigestion and
dyspepsia are all among the results of a
disordered stomach.
Every possible kind of stomach trouble
can be remedied by taking something
which will just take right hold of all the
food in your stomach and digest it alone
without the lj.ell> of the stomach, and let
the stomach take a rest. DR. SHELD-
DON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES do this
very thing. They are composed of the
best digestives known to science, and are
absolutely safe. They do exactly the
work that a good strong healthy stomach
does. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
relieve all cases of dyspepsia, indiges-
tion, burning or irritation, loss of appetite,
bloat, brash, belching, aversion to food,
fermentation and gas in the stomach.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules will make
you feel “good” before and after each
meal, and make your stomach strong and
healthy again.
Make Your Stomach Strong 8 Healthy
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are sold everywhere at 1/6 per tin of 36
Tabules, and 2/6 per tin of 80 Tabules. Buy a tin, eat a good, square meal, and
then take the Tabules according to directions, and note the result. You will
forget all about it if you are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance,
and the food will be digested just as it used to be when your stomach was well
and strong. Furthermore your stomach will soon be restored again if you keep
on taking them, just as thousands upon thousands of other stomachs have been by
the sole and exclusive use of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
®»S«EID°N'S
2/6
Price
The Jollvwells
O . * * o
II
Now here's a game
Takes steady aim.
Though Jolly well's skilled
His wife's the same.
Their evening play
Drives care away,
And keeps them fresh
For work each day.
We hope that you
Will take their cue,
And eat “ Rex" Foods
As Jolly wells do.
“Rex” Ham Pate Puts
“Pep” in You.
It brings your appetite back to life.
Some folks in speaking of
“REX” Ham Pate
say it must .be the way it is cooked and
seasoned. Others say it must be the curing
of the ham that gives it such a piquancy of
flavor.
Both are right. It is the combination of Good Sugar- and
Salt-cured Hams with expertness in Cooking, Seasoning and
Packing which gives to “Rex” Ham Pate its delectability.
Use it for Sandwiches on any occasion.
Sold by all Grocers. Ask for “Rex” Brand.
Other “REX” CANNED DELICACIES are
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Punch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce-
lain Jars of British Manufacture. .
“Rex” Brand Pard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of " Rex ” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
R
&
X
Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MOTHER of Christ. .. .and of Iscariot!
O angel-demon holding in your hands
- The fateful glass wherein the trem-
bling sands
Of human being compass sage or sot:
Christs that adorn, Caligulas that blot
The Book of Time with blood and burning
brands;
Nor sage nor sophist with their wizard
wands
Have wrung your sway by tittle or by jot.
0 Vesta-Circe... .fountain-head of tears,
Thrice-heated furnace of enduring hate,
Portal of Life and gate of tenfold Death,
Upon thy nod they hang with bated breath
Who serve with love, or at your bidding wait
To carry black vendetta down the years!
Victoria.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
Dunlang O’Hartigan.
AN IRISH LEGEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[When Dunlang O’Hartigan, the friend and bosom
companion of Murrough, son of Brian, was on his
way to the battle of Clontarf, Aoibhell, the fairy
queen, endeavored to persuade him to take no part in
the light. There was a prophecy that, fighting within
sound of the sea, both Dunlang and Murrough should
fall. Aoibhell offered Dunlang all the delights of
Fairyland if he would remain with her ; but the hero
refused to be absent from his friend’s side. The
fairy queen then gave him a cloak which made him
invisible, but warned him that if he took it off he
must die.]
Act I.
Date, 1014.
Early morning. A mountain slope in
Wicklow overlooking Dublin Bay. Dunlang
O’Hartigan is asleep on a couch of heather.
There is a sound of singing in the air; and
the first faint silver light that heralds the
rising sun is on the eastern sea. Twelve
Danish ships, under sail and oar, are moving
slowly towards the Hill of Howth. The
singing stops.
Dunlang ( awaking from sleep ) : ’Twas the
sound of sweetest music in my ear. Surely
I have dreamt and it is a good sign. I will
not be heeding the word of a wise man,
and him grown old to foolishness, that I
will die, and Murrough with me, if I go
to the fight within the sound of the loud
sea. Maybe Brian will draw them away
from the shore; but if he would fight
them in the green water itself, and it
wetter than the grave of Cleena, I would
not stay away while Murrough is there.
The singing begins again.
What, more singing! It is the little
people, surely, and them washing their
pink toes in the white dew. I must rise
now; for there is smoke over Dublin
houses and it will be a long road to walk
till I see the spears going on up the green
world with Brian’s grey beard in the
front of them. What is the music at all?
He springs from the heather and stands
revealed as a young man of great stature
with dark, red-brown hair clustering over
his forehead and falling in waves on his
broad shoulders. His eyes are the deepest
grey, and his short beard is soft and of
lighter color than his hair. He wears a
fawn-colored cloak, a dark green kilt, and
brogues of soft dressed, leather; and as he
rises he throws a jewelled sword belt over
his head and shoulder, from which hangs a
long scabbarded sword, that almost touches
the ground as he moves. As he stands up
Aoibhell comes in singing and sewing a
white cloak with rapid stitches that keep
time to her song. She appears as a beauti-
ful girl with hair of raven blackness and
great eyes of the deepest blue. Her dress is
of pearly grey and ripples about her as she
moves. A thousand weavers of the little
people wove it of fine spider’s web on a
silver loom under the roots of a great elm
tree in Knockawn. Lir brought her
the pearls out of the sea to sew on the
girdle.
Dunlang ( raising his open hand in the
salute) : What lady of the world are you?
Aoibhell ( stopping her song) : I am the
woman of the grey smoke that makes a
fine joy in the first of the yellow morning.
Dunlang : You are surely the bright flower
that opens when the lark makes a song
that calls the bold sun to begin shining.
Och, no, you are not that; for you are the
song itself and a better song than any
lark would be singing.
Aoibhell : Will you be walking far this
good day, Dunlang O’Hartigan?
Dunlang : You have my name, surely, and
it is a good day. I will be walking to
come up with Brian and Murrough where
the spears are. It is this day or the day
after that the men of the ships must be
broken that there may be a kind peace
before the grey of the king’s beard.
Aoibhell: It is to-morrow, maybe, that the
men of the ships will run back to their
ships and them burning on the shore ; but
you will not be in the battle, Dunlang.
Dijnlang: I will be in the battle, surely;
for my word is given to Murrough that is
my first friend.
Aoibhell : Och, Dunlang, you are a bold
man; but it is a foolish thing to go down
to the battle. You will stay with me,
surely; for a small laughter in the red
heather is more than a great dying on the
wot - sand.
Dunlang: How would I be a man, and me
leaving the man that is my first friend?
Aoibiieli : How would you be a man and
you leaving the woman that has love to
T whisper all a long day in your close ear?
i unlaxg : [ would leave the green world,
and it calling with every grass blade in
the sunshine, and go down into the dark
with fire that makes no light for the sake
of my friend.
Aoibhell : Och, well, you will be having
your way and not seeing the tear that
Is in my eye at all.
Dunlang : It Is a tear that is in my heart
to go from you and you smiling on me
this day.
Aoibhell : And is it this day that you must
be going V You are a great man to w r alk
and it is not twenty miles to where the
fighting will be.
Dunlang : ’Tis the truth of life that if It
is only twenty miles it will take four
hours of the day to walk there, with,
maybe, running down the long hills.
Aoibhell ( coming close to him) : Och, well.
’Tis a sad woman I will be thinking long
for you ; but you must go that you may
be rested for the fight the next day.
Dunlang : How would the fight be the
next day? Would the ship men wait be-
cause Dunlang O’Hartigan thought to
change sweet words with a queen sitting
in the heather.
Aoibhell : Will you look now, strong man ?
There will be no fighting this day.
As she speaks she points to the ships
slowly crossing the hay towards Howth and
to the still greater fleet in the far distance
hearing down from the north-east. The sun
rises.
Dunlang : I think there will be no battle
this day.
Aoibhell: Och, what would a woman say?
There is one day only, and the man of all
the world to be with her for maybe a
sweet word and maybe a small kiss in the
heather; but the man w T ould be tired out
the next day for the fighting.
Dunlang : It is not tired I would be,
surely; for I have a sound foot and a
strong arm, and it is not a little running
down the long hills that can make me
weary. I will stay with you for a small
while ; maybe the battle will wait for me.
Aoibhell : You are the man of the world.
She lays a white arm on his sleeve and
looks up into his eyes. Dunlang stoops to
kiss her; hut she eludes his grasp and
dances away out of his reach.
Aoibhell: Och, no, strong man. Would
you win your hunt before starting the
chase. Draw your long sword and I will
fight you for that kiss with my needle
only.
Dunlang ( trying clumsily to catch her as
she skips away from him) : ’Tis the
witch of the world you are, and you with
two stars in your head for eyes.
Act 11.
Later in the morning. A green glen of the
Wicklow hills. Dunlang is lying on the grass
while Aoihhell comhs out his long, wavy
hair. The white cloak she has heen sewing
lies heside her, and there are fruits and wine
on a grey, mossy stone near hy.
Dunlang : ’Tis a dream of two worlds
and them full of singing, to lie here and
• look into your two eyes.
Aoibhell (in a low, sweet voice): Do you
love me, Dunlang?
Dunlang is silent, still gazing into her face.
Do you love me, Dunlang?
Dunlang : If it is love itself, I do not know.
Och, you sweet woman, there is the wonder
of white snows in a good sun on your
breast, and a taste like the bright air after
green rain in your breath, and the soft red
of a dark rose on your mouth, and over all
is your hair that is a very dark night full
of small stars. Do I love you itself? ’Tis
not like the loving of a woman by a man;
hut as if a man sank in a deep sea that
was warm about him, and him glad to
drown in it for the sweetness of the water
on his skin.
Aoibhell : Och, well, it is surely good to
put the comb through j T our fine hair.
Dunlang ( drawing her down to him and
kissing her) : It is surely good to taste the
wonder of your mouth.
He sinks hack with a sigh of content and
pillows his head again on her knees. Aoihhell
begins curling a lock of his hair, and as she
does so takes a sprig of thorn from her
hosom intending to tceave it into the curl.
Dunlang suddenly discovers her intention to
work a spell upon him, and leaps to his feet.
Dunlang : Och, the folly that is in me this
day. ’Tis the spell you would put upon me
with a bit of green thorn, with your talk
of love and the stroke of your soft hands.
Aoibhell : ’Tis the spell I would put on
you, surely, to keep you on the green hills
till there is no death waiting for you
below in the loud battle. Och, Dunlang,
’tis the heart’s love of a queen you have
this day, and no hurt would I do you more
than to hold you in my own two arms.
Will you not stay with no spell? There
will be a keening in the low world, and a
woman’s sore heart must go always in the
high places of the wind and the mountains
because Dunlang O’Hartigan comes no
more by any road. Och, why will you kill
yourself and no good done?
Dunlang : Sweet woman, if there were two
white arms in this green world that could
hold me away from my friend it would be
yours, surely. There are tears in my deep
heart that I must go ; but how would you
love me in other days, and you knowing
that the soul of me turned like a feather
for a kiss of fine lips and a sweet word on
the tongue. If it is a true word at all
that I must die, there would be another
death another day, and me going out in
shame on the black road with my head
low and not able to meet him that was
my friend. If it is not a true word that
I must die, I will come back to you when
my sword is wiped clean, and we will lie
all a long summer in the heather and laugh
under the good sun, and think long
thoughts under the white stars. If you
love me you will not be keeping me back.
Aoibhell : I will not be keeping you back,
strong man. It is now you must go
quickly; but there is a way of keeping you
from hurt if you will take it.
Dunlang : Show me the way; for I have no
liking to be a dead man.. . .Och, girl, keep
the touch of your white hand off me; for
I am mad with the feeling of you about
me, and the blue of your eyes in my heart.
Aoibhell : Go to the battle; but I will
throw this cloak over you, and no man will
see you. They will feel your sword and
(Continued on next page.)


m
if?
If*
m
■Hd
iILI
HI
1»
r<i>ni; i
1 11 mr
gS
rflllll I 1
E
iMIliS'
K 4
Zam-Buk is the Mother’s Friend •
ACCIDENTS will happen, even in the best-regulated
families. Healthy youngsters seem to be always
"in me wars ; housework abounds with mishaps
for busy wives and harassed mothers; and the bread-
winner often returns from work with a more
or less serious injury. Just what every home
needs is Zam-Buk, A pot and a bandage on
a handy shelf, where they are ready for
instant use, save untold pain, time and
money.
When the little one runs in from his
play with a wry face and smarting, dirt-filled
scrape On his knee, simply wash the part and
smear with Zam-Buk. When father cuts or
scrapes his hand, the handy pot of Zam-Buk
again meets the emergency, and the house-
wife or mother continually finds it a real
friend in need for the burns she receives
while cooking, the scalds of a washing day,
or the knocks and bruises of dusting.
Children like Zam-Buk because it is
cooling, soothing and pleasant. Their elders value it
still more highly because it is also antiseptic, prevent-
ing poisoning, festering, and because it is good for 1
the tenderest skin. Daily mishaps make Zam-Buk a
daily need, therefore “keep Zam-Buk handy” is the
sound home motto.
%
i ts getting
better,
Every Home Needs Zam-BuK
BOY’S SCALDS AND GIRL’S SORES HEALED.
Mrs. Marion Crimmings, Forsyth and Penshurst Streets,
Willoughby, North Sydney, says:—“A tin of boiling water burst
and the scalding water poured out all over the face and shoulders
of my little boy, Joe. One side of his face swelled out into an
enormous blister, which broke and left the surface in a raw state.
We applied oil and the white of an egg. Later we dressed the
injury with Zam-Buk, which healed his face in a week or two.
“My little girl, Kathleen, had an eruption of sores break
out on her head. Zam-Buk completely cured her.”
Buk
am
Zam-Buk is excellent
for eczema, ulcers, ring-
worm, bad legs, rashes,
eruptions, pimples, sores,
piles, sore faces, chil-
blains, cuts, burns, fes-
terings, and injured and
diseased conditions of
the skin and tissue. Of
all chemists and stores
at Is. 6d. and 3s. 6d.
per pot (3s. 6d. holds
nearly four times the
Is. 6d.J.
AND
HELMETS
of all First-class Hatters
throughout the Commonwealth.
The name TRESS stands for the height
of English fashion and quality.
Makers—Tress & Co., Ltd., London, Eng.
Wholesale Agents—Cox & Mailer,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Biisbane
and Christchurch,
Choose
««
Swan.
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We f*an satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The tfd
SWAN SAFETY
Can’t LeaKi
Blot, Miss.
or Scratch .
Catalogue free on request.
MaiSIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE, - *
Branches.
S Primrose Buildings,
Sold by all S<?« oneri
and Jewellers.
255 a George St., Sydney*
hear your voice; but they can give you no
hurt.
She takes up the white cloak she has keen
sewing and throws it around his shoulders.
Immediately Dunlang becomes invisible.
Dunlang: It is the magic of the world. I
cannot see my own hands in front of me,
yet I feel them touch my own flesh.
Aoiriiell : Go to the battle, my soul. Fight
the shipmen at Murrough’s side ; but keep
the cloak on your shoulder for long love's
sake. ’Tis death, my heart, if you take it
off while a man would wink an eye.
Dunlang: I will keep the cloak on for long
love’s sake.
He presses her in his invisible arms and
kisses her on the mouth.
Act 111.
Late afternoon of the same day. Brian's
men are resolutely holding their oicn against
the shipmen on the sands at Clontarf. The
invaders advance in furious rushes, whirling
their axes and chain hammers and trying to
break the line of the defenders. The sand is
heaped with the slain, and behind the fight-
ing ranks wounded men have crept out to
die. Some bodies have been set awash by
the incoming tide. Flights of arrows from
time to time sing through the air. In the
centre Murrough swings his great, tivo-
handed sword. Near him are Art and Bum-
hail.
Murrough : Back ! Back !
A huge Bane falls at his stroke, and his
companions retire snarling beyond the reach
of danger.
Cumhail : A good blow, Murrough! (liais-
ing his voice ) : ’Tis a sour medicine, sea-
thieves ; will you taste again from the same
cup ?
Art: ’Tis bold men they are, waiting till the
next shipload comes to help them, and them
three to our one.
Murrough : Has any man seen Dunlang
O’Hartigan? ’Tis an ill fight and the
strongest sword in Ireland not biting flesh.
Art : lie was seen at Kildare last week.
Would he, maybe, be staying away for the
word of a blind fool that he would be
killed?
Murrough : lie would not. ’Tis not the way
of Dunlang to fear a curse nor to slack
from a fight if the Sliee itself called at his
elbow.
Cumhail : Will you look now at the bold
shipmen ! They are coming at us—-fifty of
them. Back to back, strong men; and the
best curse of a good sword on the reeking
shields of them!
The shipmen in a solid body rush upon
the three champions , who await the attack
with their long swords poised. Suddenly the
rush is stopped, and three men fall as by a
lightning stroke.
Voice of Dunlang : Back, you robbers of
women and young children! Back, you
sea-skulkers !
Five are stricken down by unseen blows,
and several more are evidently wounded.
Voice of Dunlang : Stay, you fighters of
priests and robbers of widows’ cows!
There are men to fight here; you are
going the wrong way.
The rout is forced back and the slaughter
continues.
Murrough : ’Tis the voice of Dunlang, but
I cannot see him.
Art : ’Tis his voice surely.
Cumhail : ’Tis like his voice and the work
of his arm.
Art : Stand strong! They are at us from
the other side.
A tremendous rush of berserkers, clothed
only in leather shirts, breaks upon them.
Murrough : Back ! Back !
Voice of Dunlang : At the one with the red
beard, Murrough. The man with the axe
is mine !
After tremendous fighting the berserkers
give back, the invisible stcord of Dunlang
following them with death.
Murrough: Where are you, Dunlang? Is
it you or the ghost of you that fights?
Voice of Dunlang ( from some distance) :
’Tis a living man, surely, and him making
good killing.
Murrough : ’Tis a strange thing and a fear-
ful thing. There is a fear on me of you
that I cannot see, worse than of the ship
thieves that I can see.
Voice of Dunlang (from another point):
Strike! They are at us again!
There is another confused rush; and this
time the berserkers are driven off by the
three long swords that are visible and the
more deadly one that cannot be seen. All
along the sands Brian's men are seen ad-
vancing.
Murrough : ’Tis the wonder of God! The
battle is broken when it seemed the
hardest.
Art : The wonder of God surely ! ■*
Voice of Dunlang (almost at Murrough's
ear) : Let us be going on. The battle is
won, but only half fought. There are the
ships still to burn.
Murrough (starting at the nearness of the
voice) : If it is you, Dunlang O’Hartigan,
will you show yourself to me? My bones
are cold with fear of the voice of you.
Voice of Dunlang: Surely I will show my-
self ; for the danger is past now and the
foolish word of a wise man is nothing.
He throws off the ivhite cloak and is seen
with his long sword smoking in his hands.
Murrough: ’Tis the wonder of the world!
Dunlang : Let the talk wait till the night-
time. There is still a noise of fighting
beyond.
They grasp hands and go a few steps for-
ward. A flight of arrows whistles by. Mur-
rough falls forward on his face. Dunlang
is on his knees beside him when a long shaft
pierces his own shoulder.
Murrough (struggling to rise) : Brother.
Dunlang: It is the curse of the seashore
that the wise man spoke.
Murrough again falls forward on his face.
Dunlang leans on one arm and plucks fiercely
at the feathered arrow. A look of agony
distorts his face; and as the shaft comes away
there is an outrush of blood. Cumhail runs
to Dunlang and raises him in his arms.
Cumhail : Och, the black day.
Dunlang (after a pause): ’Tis the dream
of two worlds to lie here. .. .and look into
your eyes....
Gum hail : Is it dreaming you are, you that
fought with a great sword and no man
seeing you?
Dunlang (in a failing voice): As if a man
sank. .. .sank. .. .into a sea that was
warm about him.... and him glad to
drown in it for the sweetness of the water
on his skin....
Cumhail: What is it that he said at all?
Och, it is a very black day !
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE railway station near the training
j, camp had been busy for days with
arrivals for the next reinforcements.
Train after train had discharged its load of
men in civilian clothes, who carried every
form of luggage known to man or woman.
Except for belated squads that drifted in
on any train, the rush was over; and
two leather-faced men with tarry hands
and moleskins, and eyes grown tired from
looking at boiling tar and blinking at its
fumes, had taken courage to asphalt the sta-
tion platform.
“There’s only one more lot to come,” a
camp sergeant told them. “They fell off
the train or something and are coming on
this evening. Ypu’ll be finished by then.”
The leather-faced men set stolidly to work.
For half the day their handiness with fluent
tar absorbed the attention of the station
staff. And by the time the train bringing
the stray recruits whistled, their work was
finished and was being tittivated lovingly.
They were putting on their coats and look-
ing with satisfaction at the job when the
train rushed in.
The recruits tumbled out at the order of a
camp sergeant.
“Fall in, here!”
At the place indicated he drove the heel
of his boot into the new asphalt, like a
footballer preparing for a place-kick. Then
he dragged his toe through what looked like
sand and bellowed at the slow ones.
“Hurry up, there! Get your dunnage
out!”
Some of the men were excited at the pros-
pect of going into camp. A few were even
intoxicated —with that or something else.
One, a big Irishman, found the platform too
narrow. On the short tacks he nearly went
over the edge, and his long reaches under
full canvas took him clawing a way along
the station-house.
“Here ! Fall in here !” the sergeant roared,
scraping another line to catch the Irishman
at the end of one of his rushes. The other
recruits giggled. The leather-faced men
groaned.
The big recruit stopped and stared at the
mark. He swayed uncertainly and turned
to face the sergeant.
“Number off!”
No one sooke. Then the next man shouted.
“Two.”
The numbering rattled along till it came
to seven. Then the Irishman, remembering
that he had neglected his part, yelled:
“One!”
“Don’t speak out o’ your turn,” a man in
the back rank said.
The Irishman churned his feet in the as-
phalt and so faced about. He fell on the
man behind him and they rolled on the handi-
work of the leather-faced men till two cor-
porals separated them and set the giant on
his feet again.
“Now remember.” the sergeant said, “odd
numbers stand still, even numbers take one
pace to the rear—form fours !”
It was a shuffling, clumsy movement. The
Irishman turned to the right and. without
waiting for orders, marched away on one of
his long reaches.
“Halt, that man!” roared the sergeant.
“Stop him, there !”
A soldier stopped him by putting his hand
on his stomach. The' big man looked down
at the khaki figure.
“It’s a dirty German,” he said ; “a blessed
Boshy.”
Keeping his eyes fixed on the soldier, as
though he were a snake that might escape
him, he stealthily stooped and took up two
hairy fistfuls of sand and tar.
“I’ll settle any German,” he muttered,
backing away till he paused on the extreme
edge of the platform. “Take that, you
sausage—and that!”
Both volleys struck the newly-painted
building and the stationmaster’s outcries
mingled with those of the leather-faced men.
Expecting a volley, the extraordinary re-
cruit fell off the platform and took cover,
only his staring eyes and dishevelled hair
showing above the edge of the asphalt.
“Won’t some man wooden him out?” the
stationmaster squalled, “Seize that maniac !”
a sergeant shouted. Some ladies, who were
in the waiting-room, came out to see what
the uproar meant. The man in the trenches
dropped his ammunition and put his tarry
fingers to his nose. Then two husky men
seized him. pulled him on to the platform
and dragged him towards the squad. The
leather-faced men were nearly crying.
The Irishman, still muttering about the
Germans, was set on his feet between two
big men,. He swayed a lot. But they suc-
ceeded in getting him into motion at the
order, “Quick march.” All went well for
half a dozen paces. This brought him oppo-
site his erstwhile “German” foe. Instinct
demanded either attack or a dive to cover.
A ith a shout of defiance he ran backwards
clean off the platform and lay between the
rails kicking and waving his tarry hands.
The squad marched on. Two military
police, who happened along, hoisted him on
to his feet and steered him towards the
camp.
The leather-faced men inspected their
handiwork. The platform looked as though
a locomotive had skidded across it. They
looked at one another. One began taking off
his coat.
“We’ll have to rake her over again and
give her another roll,” he said. “That
means getting the six o’clock home.”
A comrade groaned.
“Oh, well,” he said, “we’ve all got to do
our bit.”
WILL LWASON.


owing: to its speed, may-
be direct coupled to a
GENERATOR, thus
saving: floor space and belt
transmission losses.
Its Distinguishing: Features
are described in Booklet
8.-0-5. Write to-day for
a copy to —
m Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne 1/ Zealand Of flee: 93-107jFeatherston St, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
35
D O N’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHXJR.
HAIR RESTORER
1/0 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Loekyer’s gives health to the hair and. restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd'., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS
Prices In
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/C.
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
efleet u all y
cuts short all
attacks •<
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUQHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
'he oough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Made in England.
DIARRHOEA
Aots like a charm In
and simple
DYSENTERY.
FREE!
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, or Oxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st., Sydney.
*
N
V
V
E
Lime Juice
he ideal summer beverage—
cooling, refreshing and health-
giving. New season’s supplies
lately shipped from London.
“Montserrat ” is sold by all leading
storekeepers.
u will make your business more profii
stalling in your Hotel
Eckersfey’s Dispensers
lor the rapid and economic production of
■
Draught Aerated Wa
These Machines are now used in many of the leading
Hotels throughout Australia, and we give below names of
a few Sydney users :■ —
Mr. J. B. Belfield, Belfield’s Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mr. W. H. Watson, Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Mr. W. B. Richardson, Railway Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Mr. J. P. Barry, Ransdowne Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mrs. Messenger, Hotel, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mr. A. Nonmus, British Empire Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Grand Pacific Hotel, Manly.
A targe number of our
Suburban and Country
Machines are also in use in
Hotels in New South Wales.
machines supplied on terms.
Catalogs from
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
■RSLEY & SONS, 25a George Street West, Sydney ; and South
m
V.
m
OOf/
I/*/ *
rN
l/l'i
o
m
I
i
m
“there’s nothing like a box
TO KEEP ONE IN TRIM."
“ESPECIALLY IF IT’S A BOX OF
BEECHAMS PILLS
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout.
Club Rum.
C. BRAfMDAUER & Co.’S,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Priase Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Worksi Birmingham, England)
Ask
your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
WE CATER FOR THE WANTS OF
THE PETROL COMMU
fefif
No matter what your requirements
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-GARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
we can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, LUBRICATORS, METAL-
LIC TUBES & SHEETS of ALL
descriptions, PETROL COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOOLS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
Robert C. Swan & Co, Ltd
• 9
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the FAMOUS
SCHEBLER CARBURETTER.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROVITE
LEATHER
LTI
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
CO
&
fts.7 \Ms,
A
s>v<s
y
oi t
%
&
step
The Wheels that Solve
Your Grinding Problems—
Norton Alundum Wheels
For GRINDING
HIGH-SPEED STEEDS
HIGH CARBON STEEDS
SPECIAD ADDOY STEEDS.
Or
Norton Cry stolon Wheels
If your grinding proposition 1*
CAST IRON
CHIDDED IRON
BRASS or BRONZE
A large Select on of all Grades and Grains
carried in stock by Agents—
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
STS
r M
20
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
SOT.K ACENTS—■
Jas. HardieS Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Ne/yambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footsoray, Victoria.
HARD SERVICE
ELECTRIC DRILLS.
Stocked in
AC and DC.
Rugged in
Construction.
These Drills are Practical, Dependable
and Powerful, and Develop more Power
for Size and Weight than any other.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
REASONABLE PRICES.
Highest Grade
Ball Bearings.
Gearing of
Special Alloy
Steel.
Illustrated Pamphlet on Application.
The
Austral Engineering Supply Co.
189 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Ltd.
NAT SEMI-DIESEL
OILENGINES
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Sole Australian Agents
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
DANGAR GEDYEeC?
: d r-J E'v' :
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
■rts
SUB-
AGENTS
MITCHELL & CO, PROPY,ITD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. ITO.,
Townsville,- Q.
MALLOCH BROS.,
Perth, WA
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LID.,
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBf, CARSON. LTD..
Brisbane, Q.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS'
CO-OP. UNION, LTD.
Adelaide, S.A.
MINERS AND CONTRACTORS.
REDUCE YOUR COSTS
by using;
CALDWELL’S PATENT SPADES and SHOVELS.
Perfect Solid Steel Blades made in One Piece without welding.
Clear from obstructions of any kind with Double the Life of other makes.
P£~STRONG, HANDY, LIGHT.
Stocked in All Sizes and Shapes.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, SYDNEY.
