

The Genial Spirit
•9
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent street, SydLney,
Mining* and Contractors 5 Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Heqn sites.
Specialty ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
m
H
Z
£3
0
fc. e
H 0
M f«rt
s 6
g
14
!/)
o U
;
*
a o
3 <3
a m
«
c **
o gq
«
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
mm
Head
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
,1 iFiinpii Fir-iii iif
niaa
piiEM'iisiiasiMaiOSSfillirainiiQ
m
’Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty’
m
3s,
Made in Australia bi/
taUICKSIIARNSC?
1 SYDNEY.
X!
* Take it back,
,1 must have
HUTTONS
fincApplefirand
HAMS a
BACON.
f
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
u
bbs
MS 1™
For INDIGESTION
antl DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared '.Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
PALMER CORD
.
TYRES.
BUY BRITISH GOODS!
Practical Patriotism does not countenance support of Foreign Industries.
CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE.
ft
.VER KING
99
m
MIWUD
Wallboard
is used by Up-to-
date Architects and
Builders to take the
place of lath and
plaster. Bet’s send
samples.
(
PugooH WJT
aiOHi'iv.rX
tie? that are re-
quired of a roofing,
plus good looks,
tet’s send samples.
The Paraffine Paint Co. (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chains House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L°
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL- Sc AGRICULTURAL. ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
ROAD METAL. & FARM WAGGONS.
IRON 8c MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SHREDDER DISCS.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. {2
TRUCK
WHEELS
PALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
m
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—-No. 1908.]
[Thursday, September 7, 1916,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW NOVELS
All of Exceptional Interest
Walpole’s The Dark Forest.
Gray’s Golden Lamp:
Sterrett’s Mary Rose of Mifflin
Palmer’s Single Code Girl.
bocke’s Samaritan Mary.
Webster’s Real Adventure.
Buck’s Destiny.
MacFarlane’s Held to Answer.
Price 4/- per vol.; posted, 4/3.
Burns’ The Crevice.
Norman’s Miss Pandora.
Bryant’s Felicity Crofton
England’s The Alibi.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROPTY LTD.,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
mz
JUj
• O'S
3^
ON
Suited for Old and Young, for
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
The large sale for EUMENTIIOIj JUJUBES
has led to a number of imitations being manu-
factured under the name of menthol and other
jujubes. It is important, therefore, when buying
to be sure and get HUDSON’S EUMENTIIOIj
JUJUBES. You m&y be asked to buy other
jujubes, and be told they are “just as good’’
as Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves
that these imitations and substitutes have no
reputation of their own, and can only be sold
on the good repute and high character of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes. Sold by all chemists.
Price is. 6d. [6
The Red Page
The War
Boyd Cable, the Australian author of that
fine piece of war-literature, Between the
Lines, has been afforded the opportunity for
other useful work. Id Doing Their Bit (Hod-
der and Stoughton) he tells his mates at the
Front the news that they will be extremely
relieved to hear, that there need be no fear
of any slackening in the torrent of munitions
that is flooding the Front if—and lie insists
that that “if” is a big one, and still liable
to come into action —their mates at the Back
keep on doing their bit. “And I know too
well the bitter disappointment and the black
rage that filled the Front when the spring
came (after that awful first winter) and
brought us, not plenty of munitions, but
tales of a great shortage, stories of strikers
and shirkers, woeful cries of a wasted
winter.” Of course, Boyd Cable cannot tell
one-tenth of what he was permitted to see,
but he tells enough. “The whole country is
one seething munition factory, and no man
or lathe or tool that can be turned to muni-
tion-making is possibly doing anything else.
A mechanic may no longer work where
or on what job he pleases. If he is running
a machine for stamping out trouser-buttons
and the Ministry wants him to turn over to
stamping out cartridges discs, he has to do
so, If a firm is busy making motor-cars the
Ministry inspector may step in and tell that
firm to drop that work and start making
shells.” Even big tobacco factories are
“doing shells,” and Cable tells of lone lathes
set up in back bedrooms, And “dilution of
labor” goes on to an extraordinary extent.
In one factory of 2000 hands only 60 men,
engineers, were skilled men. War work is,
as a by-product, manufacturing engineers and
mechanics from milkmen and market-garden-
ers. And every factory he saw was building
additions, and adding new hands every week,
sometimes as many as 200. Of course women
are doing their bit. At one factory women
were doing the whole work of making 18-
pounder shells —and all the men of Australia
haven’t turned out the equivalent of one
week’s output of those girls. And as exem-
plifying the feverish activity of the tremen-
dous munition-shop that is marked on the
map as Great Britain, the output from this
particular factory is to be exactly quadru-
pled within a few weeks. At another factory
there are .7000 girls at, work; they average
871- hours' work a week. (Did anybody men-
tion the eight-hour day?) These girls work
.over 121 hours the seven days in the week,
or over 144 hours if they have the Sunday
off! And "the manager says they are “as
keen as razors, as steady as rocks, as regular
and reliable as the factory-hooter.” Every-
where Boyd Cable heard the same tale:
“Women are intelligent, eager and quick to
learn, easy to teach, punctual and regular
in attendance, tractable and obedient, amaz-
inglv keen on their work.” But they have no
initiative nor inventiveness, such as suggest-
ing any improvement in •machinery or their
work; they have little ambition, they don’t
tire of one simple job or worry to be pro-
moted. . „
Already this book is out of date, so rapidly
is the whole of England being transformed
into one tremendous workshop. The new
National Factory that he saw in progress of
building—it covers an area of 12 miles by
one mile! —is by now turning out its millions
of munitions. And that new 12-mile-long
city was being solidly built of stone, brick,
steel and wood. And it is not likely that
England will waste jtliose miles of machinery
when the post-bellum manufacturing conflict
begins. Another factory is turning out 8000
completed rifles and over o00 machine-guns
a week. Or ivas, when Boyd Cable saw it,
for it is busy piling floor on floor and filling
acres with new extensions. By the way,
wasn’t there once some question about ex-
tending the rifle-factory at Lithgow, and of
working another shift?
The chief thing to be said of Boyd Cable’s
Action Front (Smith, Elder, 5s.) is that it
is as good as his Between the Lines. It
could hardly be better. In this collection of
real war sketches he has followed the excel-
lent idea that distinguished his first book.
He takes a brief extract from an official
despatch and illuminates it, bringing out the
humor or the horror behind a few colorless
words. He apologises for the grimness of
his first book, but remarks that he felt that
it would be no bad thing if Home realised
the grimness of this war a little better. But
now that so many of us know how hellish
scientific warfare can be, he allows here a
stronger leaven of its lighter side. A
Benevolent Neutral” is one of the most
humorous war stories yet written. But
“The Fear of Fear” probes painfully deep
into the psychology of the veteran. Boyd
Cable tells us of such a man, who had been
through the thing from the first, and was
one of possibly a dozen men in his battalion
that hadn’t been wounded or killed. 1 ve
seen one-half of the battalion wiped out in
one engagement and built up with drafts, and
the other half wiped out in the next scrap.
When he is waiting to charge his nerve
gives way. “ ’Tisn’t fair, I tell ye. it isn t
fair to ask a man that’s been through what
I have to take it on again, knowing that it
I do come through ’twill be the same thing
to go through over and over until they get
me; or until my own sergeant shoots me
’for refusing to face it.” He is not afraid of
death, but of himself, of his nerve cracking,
of his doing something that will disgrace the
regiment. But when the call comes his
shell-fever is gone. “A Fragment” is. a
study in pathos that is almost overpowering
, in its sincerity. “Conscript Courage, an
exposition of the falsity of the general civilian
belief that the “sent” can never equal the
“went” in valor or fighting instinct, has. or
should have, a special appeal to Australia.
This book is the real thing, .the dinkum
oleaginous matter, and Boyd Cable is build-
ing a literary reputation that will last.
Panaceas
We always have them with us. Here are
three, one from Fremantle, one from Puke-
kohe (M.L.) and one from Halifax (Eng.).
It is. usually from quaint and innocuous
places like these that the Isms come. The
Pukekohe Panacea is priced 4s. 6d., and
can be obtained from the publisher, who is
apparently the author, C. P. W. Longdill,
P.O. Box 20, Pukekohe, Auckland, M.L.
It is modestly titled The Book of Life. “We
must have fixed seasons for love-making,
and between these seasons those who are
married must be as though they were not.”
He specifies that these love seasons should
be 20 years apart, one to «occur when at 20
years of age, and the other at 40 years of
age! Between w hiles there would be noth-
ing doing. “By fixing the legal love seasons
of mankind as 1920, 1940, 1960, and so on,
every 20th year, both sexes would thereby be
enabled to attain to the very highest stan-
dard of morality that rr •'kind can aspire
to live up to.” The •• Ayr instances the
celebrated Oneida Community, in support
of his advocacy of marital continence. “Will
the Churches of their own accord, without
outside pressure, take the matter upV We
are afraid not.” So are -we. Hence he
issues the prospectus of his New Kingdom
Society, containing, as far as possible, equal
numbers of men and women, who would
regard as legitimate children only those that
had been conceived every fourth year. But
the children conceived every fifth leap-year,
starting from 1920, should be regarded as
Royal legitimate children, and out of the
funds to be provided the mothers of these
children should receive double the endow-
ment of ordinary New Kingdom children.
Thus, apparently members of the New
Kingdom are permitted to have children
once every four years, but the ideal to be
striven for is for married persons to abstain
from all that marriage usually means from
their 20th to their 40th year, thus having
only two children in their lifetime. Obvi-
ously this would not increase the population
of Pukekohe; but then the author does not
see any reason why the population of Puke-
kche, or, for that matter, the population of
Fremantle or Halifax, should be increased.
“The first edition of this book is being
published in 1916, so the author hopes that,
before 1920 has arrived, a large number of
persons of both sexes will have become mem-
bers of the proposed New Kingdom Society,
who will make preparations for a great
marriage day in 1920, when all those who,
in the meantime, are able to find suitable
partners and become engaged will be able
to marry in accordance with the teachings
of the Spirit of Truth.” The children of
1920 would find mates within the society
and marry in 1940; and their children
should arrive about the time that their
baby brothers or sisters made their appear-
ance. But isn’t that just the time when
a young wife likes to have her mother to
look after her ? And the children of the
New Kingdom would, of course, be initiated
into the law of the Society, “that as soon
as the woman had conceived, further co-
habiting must cease, sft least until the next
leap-year, or, better still, for those who felt
moved to aspire to the highest possible
standard of morality, until the next royal
leap-year, which would be the year 1960.”
And the author-asks any interested per-
sons, married or single, who will be 19 years
of age or over, by 1920, to communicate with
the author. (Send no money !) The author
looks confidently forward to the happy time
when “this New Religion has been preached
and established throughout the world, and
incorporated into every religion under the
sun.” Then, “there would be periods when
there were babies everywhere, when every
healthy woman would have a baby of her
own, and then as these babies grew up, and
no more babies being allowed for 20 years
from the previous love-season, there would
come a considerable period when there
would be nothing but adults in the world,
who had had one or more love-seasons; and
youths of both sexes who had not yet
become parents.” This idyllic picture does
not take into consideration the plight of
the doctors and nurses compelled to attend
such a rush of business in one month, nor
the lean years that would lie between. And
another fatal objection is that little Susan
would not be able to wear the clothes that
her elder sister Jane had grown out of. And
the school teachers would all have to be
kindergarten instructors for one year, and
gradually grow up to the status of univer-
sity professors, only to revert again, after
20 years, to the charge of kindergartens.
As for those weak mortals that could not
live up to the austere morality of the New
Kingdom, the author is drastic. “If some
persons found it impossible to keep apart
during (close) seasons, and offspring should
thereby result from these illegal unions, I
think it would be better to say nothing if
parents did away, with such children for
fear of public censure.” Or, as an alterna-
tive, he suggests doing something dreadful to
these sinners and their offspring.
The author writes discreetly; he gathers
much information about the need for a
more drastic standard of continence in
married life; his analogy of the human
being and the animal in a state of nature
is convincingly put; and the tone of his
curious work is genuinely altruistic. But
this page fancies that the Prophet of Puke-
kohe will have some difficulty in gathering,
disciples for his New Kingdom. Australia
can’t wait 20 years for its best immigrant.
While Pukekohe wants the war-baby only
at 20 years’ intervals, H. E. Gent-lishman,
author of Man Resumes , “the story of a
deliberate experiment in polygamy” (Pro-
cess Co.. Ltd.. Halifax, Eng., 6d.j, wants
every man to arrange for a dozen a year.
He uses fiction for his propaganda work.
John considered that the logical conse-
quence of his wedding would be a family.
Not so Enid. But John was determined
to have a family—several families, if neces-
sary. Solely for patriotic purposes, you
understand: he wanted England to multiply
until the whole world became England; he
foresaw the grave national danger of Eng-
land dying out owing to her inability to
breed. He decided to “stop the national
rot.” So he took an office in the city and
engaged a girl clerk. She introduced him
to another girl, and he set them up in
a cottage to themselves. Other clerks were
engaged and provided for. The business
prospered. After two and a, half years,
John drew up a balance-sheet. It showed :
“4 girls and two boys, probably genuine,
2 doubtful, 1 not doubtful, 3 prospective.”
“Polygamy, properly worked, certainly re-
sults in babies.” The next thing was to
enlarge his capital by bringing other men
into the scheme.
“In two years there were three estab-
lishments, 50 men and 300 ‘clerks.’ At the
end of the third year there were 250 men
and a corresponding number of establish-
ments.” There was no free love: the in-
stinct of possession was too strong. Then
the society planted the beginnings of colonies
in tropical countries. Next, John decided
it was time to shock the world into efficient
monogamy by a disclosure of this prosperous
polygamous society. He wrote to the Prime
Minister ; he interviewed M’s.P. and bishops ;
and they shooed him off their premises; but
ultimately, by heroic means, he managed to
place his views before them. He pointed
out the dangerous folly of allowing inferior
races to multiply; he showed that monog-
amy was, for the purpose of population,
inefficient; and he stated his intention to go
on being polygamous, but only so long as
monogamy remained inefficient. Marriage
should be made almost absolutely compul-
sory. A minimum wage for alt must be
first arranged.... much higher for married
men than for single ones. Only married
people should have the vote, and they should
have as many votes as they had children.
Bachelors should be heavily taxed, so that,
financially speaking, marriage would be a
pleasant change.
This little pamphlet may have to be taken
seriously at the end of the war. Certainly
it has more chance of adoption than the
panacea from Pukekohe.
&
Unism, by “Pacific” (Porter and Salmon,
Fremantle, W.A.), consists of a “new con-
structive policy in lieu of Socialism to solve
the industrial problem,” its chief features
being that the individual must produce and
the State must distribute. The profits of
production must go to the individual, while
to eliminate the waste of distribution, the
State must establish Distributing Stores on
a co-operative basis, the State Stores to
evolve eventually into a huge distributing
scheme, with the profits of distribution for
the community. “Pacific” does not elabo-
rate, or, indeed, explain, his proposals. He
leaves that to the quotations from well-
known writers and Socialists. These ex-
tracts are illuminative and admirably chosen
from a wide field; but the author might have
supplemented these by his own suggestions as
to the steps to be taken to reach his ideal.
What Sort of a Bloke is Billzac?
The most amazing obstetric event of this
war is the birth of a new race. For years
the Australian has been gradually growing
conscious that he possessed a national soul
of his own, that he belonged to a new and
distinct species of mankind. The soli-
tary mother Of the South was conscious of
the child in her womb, patiently awaiting
the moment of liis birth. And, like another
mother, she had to journey to a far country
before that son was born.
But the world outside had no premonition
of that mother’s proud certainty. Least
of all could England admit that a daughter
of hers should give birth to a new race.
To her, in the days before our birth, an
Australian was merely a “colonial”—that
is a sort of Englishmen who wasn’t quite
an Englishman, but who, no doubt, did his
darndest. Considering the Australian’s
appalling disadvantages of having been,
through no fault of his own, born outside
Great Britain, it was a matter for congratu-
tion to discover how many of the racial
characteristics he had managed to acquire;
and he was measured, with a polite patron-
age, merely by those surviving characteris-
tics. That he had an ideal of his own was
never even suspected. And the foreign world
was quite content to regard the Australian
as a mere transplanted Britisher.
But, in the throes of a world-war, the child
was born. Ashmead Bartlett had the
astounding luck to be the first to announce
the new arrival. Captain Bean, who had
known the mother - , never thought it worth
while to mention the commonplace fact that
the kid took after his ma. The wise men of
the West, attracted by this strange portent,
came laden with gifts of superlative adjec-
tives. The kid’s bosses added to the chorus
of amazement, praise and criticism; and in
the ancestral home of the kid the polite
patronage turned into a wondering admira-
tion. But his elder orother Billjim saw the
family likeness, and was merely amused. The
kid grew up and came to France. There the
French flung bouquets at him, feminine and
official; and the Huns discovered a new
proof of England’s perfidy; they had had no
idea that England had been secretly manu-
facturing this new sort of weapon in her
world-wide arsenals. But, so far, Billzac feels
himself defrauded of his full recognition: no
Hun has. written a Hymn of Hate against
Australia; and .the busy Kaiser hasn’t even
troubled to strafe Billzac.
Well, this page would like, for the reward
of a guinea, to get from its readers a neat
and accurate prose description of the fea-
tures, the bearing, the outlook, the character
and the characteristics, mental, physical and
(if any) moral, of the typical Billzac.
What is needed is a brief portrait of Billzac
—his name may be Billjim or Algiclarence
—a prose picture from one glance at which
Billzac would be instantly recognised.
What are the points that differentiate Billzac
from, say, a Hun or an Englishman or
Bruce Smith? What, in short, will be the
main characteristics of this new race that
will spring from the loins of Billzac the
First? Descriptions, the briefer the better,
must be addressed to this page, and reach it
by October 14.
The Nude in Drama
E. H. C. Oliphant writes: —
In July a play of mine was presented for the first
time in the Playhouse, Melbourne. The fact was of
interest to me (and apparently to other local
dramatists, judging by the trouble they have taken to
damn it), and perhaps the story of its reception by
press and public may be of value to those who are
concerned for the future of Australian drama, since
it shows the attitude of both toward what is called
the “repertory” play. Quite recently exception was
taken by a leading art-critic to the exhibition of three
nudes at an art show. So, too, objection was taken
to the dialogue in this play because it was not
properly clothed. Melbourne in fact stands to-day
pretty much where London stood 25 years ago.
The Argus critic, very naturally, voiced the view
of the shocked. He was so horrified at the “nause-
ous” nature of one of the themes of the play that
he would not even name it, but, with magnificent
modesty, spoke of it as “a certain question of moral-
ity.” What was this problem that he dared not
name in the sacred columns of the Argus? Simply
this: If, in the case of misconduct between a lass
and a lad, it is the lass who is to blame, should the
man be called on to sacrifice himself in marriage?
For daring to deal with such a subject frankly I
have been denounced for my “audacity” by a few
unthinking men and by a great number of highly
respectable ladies who would have bad me write
“like a lady,” and congratulated on my “courage”
by the most thoughtful men and the most broad-
minded women of my acquaintance. (There is such
a difference between “courage” and “audacity”'!)
The trouble is that the morality of Melbourne is
woman’s morality, and that, is the poorest sort a
people can have. I am not saying anything so
foolish as that women are more immoral than men,
but only that the basis of their morality is alto-
gether inferior to man’s. The foundation of it is
prudery rather than modesty ; it is less a detestation
of vice than a desire not to recognise it: plainness
of speech is the sin of sins: insinuation is forgiv-
able ; a thing is shocking only if it lead to a prudish
embarrassment; sex subjects may be played with,
but must not be gripped tight; suggestions of immo-
rality are not immoral if only they can be stretched
to have some perfectly innocent meaning. Melbourne
people go to prurient musical comedies and picture
plays in which “haunts. of vice” art: made very
alluring, and are asked to assume that they are
only drinking-saloons or cafes. That is all fight;
for all that is demanded is that it shall be possible
to regard them modestly. The harm done by such
plaj-s among the young of both sexes is incalculable,
yet Melbourne enjoys them arid objects to The Superior
'Race, as not “clean .and wholesome”! To such
people nothing is “clean and wholesome” that deals
with natural history. To me it'-seems that the mind
that can see nothing but filth and unwholesomeness
in the discussion of a sex problem has in it some-
thing inherently foul. Even Melb. is slowly learning
that pictures of- the nude may be looked at purely
as works of art; but it has yet to learn to discuss
problems of sex seriously without feeling ashamed of
itself. j
It is worth noting that all Melbourne's male conven-
tionalists who have abused me for m3' outspokenness
have without exception admitted the truth of my
contention and of the® fact on which it was based.
They are perfectly ready. to, and do frequently, dis-
cuss such matters in private; but it. seems to them
utterly wrong to discuss them in public. One is
reminded of the attitude of the absurd Clement
Scott ‘towards Ibsen and Pinero a quarter of a cen-
tury ago. Here we have all Scott's opinions revived
....that the discussion of such subjects can do no
good, that such plays “leave a nasty taste in the
mouth,” and that they are not fit for young girls
to see and therefore ought not to be written. Mel-
bourne people accept “The Second Mrs. Tanquefay”
now because it is a classic: were it put forth to-day
as a new work by an Australian author they would
howl with indignation and proclaim it disgusting.
They dare not attack Shaw, because he comes to
them with the London hall-mark; but they take it
out of any Australian play that is equally outspoken.
Let us suppose then (and it is a great deal to
suppose) that in such unfavorable circumstances a
real dramatic genius should arise among us, what
will .happen?- Is he to have his path prescribed, to
be forbidden to state unpleasant facts, to be forced to
take conventional views ? If Australia thinks as Mel-
bourne thinks, one may be profoundly sorry for any
dramatic genius who ma.v arise in the land.
_ +
“Tasman”: If you ldd yourself you’re
pretty widely read in current literature how
does it strike you to learn that the Nobel
prizes for literature this year were awarded
to Eomain Holland, Henrik Pontoppidan,
Troels Lundanve and Verner von Ileiden-
stam? Romain Holland is a friend of mine,
but has anybody ever met any of the others?
“M.”: That about Putters (Red Page
10/8/T0) which gets me most in the admi-
ration-gasp is his free-list. The paper I
work for serves out its complimentary
copies to the other rags, and to a few
policemen —I’m not sure about lighthouse
keepers: but to get the Butters wrapper
without paying your penny you seem to have
to be a King or a Czar, or at the very
least a generalissimo.


(UGC
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
Anthony Horderns*
for Value in Tobacco
«**H£*S «ORor/?/v
Superb Coarse Cut, in
Airtight Tins,
Superb Coarse Cut Mixture.
THIS SUPERB COARSE CUT MIXTURE IS A BLEND OF
SPECIALLY-SELECTED TOBACCO, and PREPARED for US
to MEET the requirements of AUSTRALIAN PIPE SMOKERS.
There is NOT A FLAW in the QUALITY, and the
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS that has ATTENDED the Introduc-
tion of this MODERATELY-PRICED COARSE-CTJT MIXTURE
is ail indication that it SATISFIES the KEENEST SMOKERS.
Put lip in ioz. Packets and Air-tight Tins of 2oz. and upwards.
loz. 2oZ. loz. per lb.
PRICE -/9 1/3 2/6 9/6
Postage: loz., 2d.; 20z., 3d.; 40z., 4cL ; per lb., 9d, extra.
Postage Other States: Per lb., 1/2 extra.
Carreras Special Double Broad Cut Tobacco.
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT TOBACCO « Specially
Manufactured by CARRERAS, LTD., for ANTHONY lIORDERN and SONS, and all DISCRIMIN-
ATING Smokers are RECOMMENDED to give it a trial. The new METHOD of cutting and
mixing adopted for the CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT ensures the EXACT
BLEND intended by the Manufacturer.
With CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT THE NATURAL
TOBACCO is in LARGE PIECES, absolutely FREE from STALK, and CUT in such a way that
the WEIGHT of the DIFFERENT PARTICLES is PRACTICALLY the same. _
When the pipe is lighted it will be found that CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE
BROAD CUT allows the air to PASS through the
TOBACCO as EASILY as through a DRY SPONGE, and the
SMOKE REACHES THE MOUTH FILTERED OF ALL ITS
HEAT.
The Pipe always DRAWS FREELY, and with a
DELICIOUS COOLNESS, because the tobacco CANNOT form
into LUMPS, such as most smokers have experienced
with FINE-CUT MIXTURES.
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD
CUT TOBACCO smokes PURE and SWEET to the
BOTTOM of the PIPE, leaving a minimum of ASH, and the
COMBUSTION is SO PERFECT that it ACTUALLY goes
TWICE AS FAR AS CHEAPER MIXTURES. Packed in
Patent VACUUMISED TINS. Guaranteed to keep the
TOBACCO in GOOD CONDITION for ANY TIME IN ANY
CLIMATE.
MEDIUM and FULL STRENGTH: 2oz. 1/5,
by post 1/8; 4oz. 2/9, by post 3/1; per lb.,
10/9. Postage, N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.
/AS?
O/N DO^h
r»
' $OO
Anthony Horderns’ for the
Bushman’s Universal Bicycle
The Bushman’s Universal Bicycle is built of Genuine B.S.A. parts at our own
bicycle works, anti fitted with Dunlop Bushman’s Covers, specially for rough riding.
The strengthening stays stiffen the frame, making the Bushman’s Universal the
strongest model built.
Price £l3/10/
• With
DUNLOP
BUSHMAN'S'
COVERS.
dfgdfg
N O 1' E the
s t r e n gthening
Stays to stiffen
Frame, rendering
this Machine the
Strongest Model
Made.
THE FRAME is Best Weldless Steel Tubing, Double Butted. This is a specially-
strengthened frame, the front forks being supplemented with girder front forks, and also fitted
with a pair of extra back stays, these making it very convenient for strapping tanks for canning
water, making it, at the same time, an almost unbreakable frame.
EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER RACK HUB, which includes FREE
WHEEL on Both Gears, also Back Pedalling Brake on each gear.
SADDLE. —-Brooks’ B 10. Front rim brake.
FINISHED Black, Enamel of highest quality, all bright parts heavily plated on copper.
DUNLOP BUSHMAN’S COVERS and HEAVY DUNLOP TUBES.
COMPLETE, with TOOLS, WRENCHES, INFLATER and OILER.
Fully Guaranteed for 12 Months.
PRICE
<£l3/10/
Anthony Horderns*
for Value in
WATCHES.
The FENCHURCH NON-MAGNETIC
LEVER is a HIGH-GRADE, Open-face
KEYLESS WATCH for men, and one that
will stand HARD WEAR and ROUGH
USAGE.
The FENCHURCH is an ACCURATE
TIMEKEEPER, has Compensation Balance,
is fully Jewelled, and well finished.
The FENCHURCH is a SHORT-WIND
KEYLESS WATCH, in DUST- and
WATER-PROOF Case, fitted either with
Screw Bezel and Back, or Hinge and Snap
Cases.
Nickel Silver Case, 157-
Gun Metal, 16/-
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
The SOLDIER’S FENCHURCH SIL-
VER WRISTLET WATCH, with Lumin-
ous Dial. A Perfect Timekeeper, £2/10/-
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
The Uni Sirdar
is a good, strong, knock-about Keyless
Watch. It has a non-magnetic, keyless
movement, fully jewelled, compensating
balance. It is a thoroughly dependable and
accurate watch.
SOLID NICKEL CASE .... 16/6
OXIDISED 18/6
NICKEL HUNTING CASE. . 22/6
SILVER OPEN FACE 30/-
SILVER HUNTING CASE. . 37/6
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
All watches are timed and -adjusted before
being despatched from our establishment.
O 71
'He FfcNCHUWCHLtVfcft
***
\
ffl
/
Vs'u)tvy
7l?u
It/ICtW
o— —s
£3
%
4
&
Anthony Horderns’ for the
CLEMAK SAFETY RAZOR
THE OjEMAK is England’s best Safety Razor of the popular type. It is
simple and unique, possessing every feature that stands for efficiency and
satisfaction.
THE CEEMAK provides a fresh blade for every day of the week- no
intricate adjustment is needed —and is one of the few razors that can be cleaned
without removing the blade.
THE CLEMAK BLADE has
marvellous edge-retaining proper-
ties, which, after long service, may
be revived with an ordinary strop.
It is Chiu Comfort to use THE
CLEMAK, and the truest economy
to buy one.
THE CLEMAK is self-adjust-
ing; indeed, it is the simplest
Safety Razor made.
With THE CLEMAK there is
no scraping no forcing--just the
simple continued movement that
leaves behind it a smooth skin freed
from the beard.
Complete with Seven Blades
and Stropping Handle.
Complete in
Serviceable
Box,
5
By Post
3d. Extra.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
52^
Repeating Rifles
In choosing a rifle for any purpose,
its reliability and accuracy should be
carefully considered. Winchester
rifles enjoy the highest reputation the
world over for reliability, accuracy,
strong shooting qualities and finish.
They are made in all desirable cal-
ibers from .22 to .50, and in eleven
different models. From these a
Winchester can be selected that
will meet any shooting requirement
THE GRAND PRIX, the highest honor, was awarded Win-
chester Guns and Ammunition at the Panama Exposition «
for the w Brand
m* ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses f Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
"'hat we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every, instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IMPORTANT.
Look lo Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them ‘‘Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
m
Make Your
Own Cans.
If you buy Tin Cans of any
description you are paying for
these machines.
WHY NOT OWN THEM?
Make your own cans and the
machines will pay for themselves.
Even the small Can Maker or
Packer, whose output is only 5000
to 10,000 Cans per day, will save
money by using the
“AMS SYSTEM”
for making or closing Sanitary
Cans.
r^Qt?
aw 1
Sd
eoft
We have machines exactly suited to your needs, whether
your output is 5000 or 100,000 Cans per day.
W T e will gladly send, without obligation, prices and
pictures of machines adapted to your needs. Send us
samples of your cans or drawings with complete dimen-
sions, and state the quantity you make.
CORRESPONDENCE IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Address Dept. C-14
The MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agents:
W. E. HUGHES (EL CO., London, E.C.,
H. W. PEABODY (EL CO., Sydney, N.S.W.,
England.
Australia.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
m
Wor-Usi Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
n h T7M be w t ’n7 CO r" plCte wit ] l pouch - PRICE > 27/6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
OtUN, W. W. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
sna P action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTO S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/.. D.8.8.L
OUf*, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. W. W. Greener
Pa r?! l^.’l v ' et ? e ' fast cr ossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6 D.8.8L GUN
RM pp R TP S ir ™ RND ~l 2 «,oh oke bore, pistol trip,' English walnut
4n C vnrric ßl Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
, PR ICE 20/* Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 2.. long.cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY 12/6
each. Cartridges, 1/. 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO
Importers and Indentors,
229.-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
If The medicine that goes hand in hand
with good health —a kind of twin brother
—that brings physical confidence,
strength, mental energy and clearness, is
Clements Tonic, because it
possesses those specific properties that re-
build the human constitution, strengthen
its working parts, cleanse the stomach
and purify the blood, thus creating new
conditions with health results to the user.
If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the
testimonies given afford it, written by
those who can well afford by experience
to judge of its merits. For the general
good of the public they are published,
and are well worth reading by everyone.
Over 100 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been
received during the months of March, April and May, which may be
seen and verified at the offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd.,
Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day, and get well.


A Great REMEDY (or
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic, whicl
mmmm
Kidney&BladderPills
I These Pills also act on the liver.
NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others—you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
Dewitts
Kidney# Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All-
Steel Mead Modele Superbe
‘COVENTRY FLYER >
Rode 34*366 Miles in 365 Says
(officially authenticated'. Beat over 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED ' FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Esfc sg yrs.
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carrfage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free 1 rial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices; Write for Free Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL)
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST HEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make' the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison,
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 ivas a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for 1J) days l
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
txywna
An Australian Remedy for ECZEMA,
PRICKLY HEAT and SKIN DISEASES.
Hundreds testify to its curative powers.
The most obstinate cases of Eczema cured.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or
5/.S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 2|(j
Bonnmg'ton’s
Jubes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT (EL LUNGS
?ht S ,?o S ff m£ !f yof *!?? uniq H e and valuable curative properties of Bonninpton’s Irish Moss
™ey afford immediate rehefin case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice Huskiness'
Spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action’
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
06
Pas.
'S/s/zaS -S'
P/s
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
tnem Ihe best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington &. Co., Ctd.
179 Harris street - -■ Sydney
z.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
JOHNSON
MON tmt"' l
my
m >
m%
•m
MS
mps
L
m
m
I Never Use An Oily Polish
on Any of My Furniture—just
/~\ILY polishes gather and hold the dust, soiling clothing,
V linen and everything with which they come in con-
tact. Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a perfectly hard, dry,
glasslike polish. It forms a thin, protecting coat over the varnish
adding years to its life. It never becomes sticky or tacky in the
hottest weather nor from the heat of the body;
consequently it does not show finger prints and
i!
□irHiiii
It Cannot Gather Dust
Johnson’s Prepared Wax cleans, polishes and finishes with
one application. It gives Craftsman furniture that soft,
artistic polish so appropriate to this style. It entirely removes
the cloudiness from Mahogany, restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for keeping
dining room tables bright and tempting—hot dishes have no
effect whatever on it.
EVERY FAMILY has dozens of uses
for Johnson’s Prepared Wax —it is just
as necessary ’round the house as soap.
Keep a tin always on hand for clean-
ing and polishing your
Floors
Pianos
Linoleum
Furniture
Woodwork
Leather Goods
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is conven-
iently put up—always ready for use—
no tools or brushes required—all you
need is a cheese cloth or woollen rag.
1111
HI 111
mm
removes spots and stains that other cleaners won’t touch. It is particularly good
for ink spots. Unequalled for use on badly stained floors, woodwork, furniture,
motor cars and in fact, all wood,
metal and enamel surfaces. Just the
thing for white enamel of all kinds
woodwork, iron beds, etc. Johnson’s
Cleaner contains absolutely no grit or
acid —it cannot scratch or injure the
finest finish.
Use the Coupon
for trial packages of Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax and Johnson’s Cleaner —
an ideal combination for cleaning and
.polishtng.
Address :
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street
SYDNEY, N. S.W.
Write for any further information
you desire.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON,
I enclose 6d. for a trial tin each of Johnson’s Cleaner and
Prepared Wax—sufficient for a good test.
Name ....
Address
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Echo.
Love its sweet melody
Sang in this heart of mine,
Setting strange fancies free,
Making a god of me,
Drunk with a mhgic wine.
Warm, in my arms’ embrace,
Tumult your bosom showed ;
White, passion-white, your face
Strained to my kiss; and grace
Lips in surrender showed.
Ah, how your eyes did shine!
What speech holds better truth?
Lifting their gaze to mine,
Bidding me take the wine
Of your impassioned youth!
Now —that was years ago—
Cold seem your lips, unmoved;
Absent your eye’s swift glow
Of love to let me know
How, with your soul, you loved.
Yet in my memory
Echoes a song divine ;
Great love you gave to me!
Love its sweet melody
Sings in this heart of mine!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Magic Money.
... -r
The sapling leans through the wrought-iron
fence;
She holds her hands to the passers by,
And her hands are laden with fairy pence,
Blue with bloom as the misty sky.
Disc on disc are the young leaves piled,
Over the footworn flags they fall.
Fancy-fragrant and undefiled
The prodigal proffers her wealth to all—
Lost nymph in the city, wild and sunny !....
But what is the worth of gum-leaf money?
Haste unheeding, O passers-by,
Beware of the glamor the round leaves hold,
Lest they snare your soul like a songbird’s
cry
Till you pause and dream —for your time is
gold,
Potent to purchase you fear and hate,
Fever and fret, as the years slip past,
Till it buys you the quiet you crave —too
late—•
And a marble Stone on your heart at last;
Yea, a lying stone that will long outlive you,
This in the end will your bright gold give
you!
One man gathered a coin of joy.
The leaf touch, silvery smooth .and cool,
Caressed the skin of an eager hoy
On the brink of the tree-ringed bathing pool.
Oh, glee of a stolen holiday
In freedom only the forest sees !
Oh, gay wing fanning from Far-away
The sorrowful savor of memories
Pungent-sweet as the bush bees’ honey !
Such are the gifts of gum-leaf money.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
The Song of ii Sentimental Tart.
(WITH APOLOGIES TO "DEN.")
The rnornin’ sun is climbin’ up the sky ;
What poets call “the firmyment” is blue,
And birds is sing ini in the trees close by
Their love-songs true;
And primroses is iioppin’ up their ’eads
A-smilin’ at me fr<j>m their leafy beds.
An’ I go out a-walkin’ in the sun
An’ think o’ you a thousand miles away
A-trampin’ decks, I same’s me an’ you ’ave
done j
Day after day;
An’ wonder who’s the Peach wot’s by yer
side—
The Tart wot’s took the place I occurpied.
An’ wot it is yer tellin’ ’er about,
A-gazin’ in ’eiveyes! Not that I care!
Is it the stars Wot yous a-pointin’ out?
My stars—to tier?
An’ ’oldin’ of ’er arm when the boat rolls,
An’ sayin’ all that guyver ’bout two souls
That have a single thought—ah ! Kid,
Not long ago, upon that same blue sea,
Yer said (fair dinkum, now, you know you
did) '
The same to me!
Yer squeezed my arm; and when Night’s
curtain fell,
Yer kissed me, and we sighted Cape Fare-
well !
And next night, when we climbed that little
hill,
That bonzer hill, all golden wif the gorse,
And sat beneath that bosliter moon until
AVe lost our course,
And steered for Dreamland wif a fairy
crew—•
Then all the world, Kid, was just me an’
you.
An’ then there was the night when you an’
me
Walked miles all through the lupins ’and
in ’and
An* watched the rollers of the moonlit sea
Break on the sand;
Then found a corner —Kid! " you ain’t
'**- -- forgot?
If I wus (lyin’ I could see that spot!
But wot’s the good o’ sighin’? I’m alone.
An’ wishin’ won’t bring back them lost
delights;
But, when I think about the days that’s
flown
An’ moonlight nights,
Me heart aches badly, ’cos ’tis you I miss—-
I’d swim the ocean, Kid, for just one kiss.
N.S.W.
A. GRAME.


PERDRIAU GARDEN MOSB
ISYDneyI
[MELBOURNE
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STORES
m
Where grows it! Where grows it not?
If vain our toil
We ought to blame the culture, not the soil.
(Pope.)
Increased cultivation means increased production.
Regular waterings increase production, and it costs
nothing to ask your store to quote you for a length
of
II
RED RUBBER HOSE. Special in both quality
and construction. Very light, flexible and durable.
Guaranteed free from any fault in manufacture that
would cause it to split, peel or kink. Every
feat are and improvement that is possible to
ho >.? value is embodied in the construction of
“WATERSHED.”
WATERSHED
99 Reg’d.
Trade
Mark
| NEWCASTLE)
|BRISBANE |
lADELAIDE
IN
RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENVER
PRICES
Single, 17/0.
Double, 22/0.
Why suffer discomfort? Vou can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
*OSV
3\
asir
The Story of the Lamp
11 iii in,,
lcuj
niii
a . ■
C-sk,,
Dutch “Bettys” of the XVI.
Century
The lamps of the sixteenth century were
as primitive as the lamps of four or five
thousand years earlier. But about 1610,
Dutch metal workers produced lamps
known as “Bettys” made from tin, pewter
and copper, which were exported to other
countries. To-day our homes are flooded
with light. We can read, sew, write and
work in comfort. The brilliant, soothing
light, produced by
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
is pure and clean, giving a mellow light
that is restful to the weakest eyesight, and
keeps the oculist away. No fumes, no
smoke, perfectly safe. For lighting, heat-
ing and cooking it cannot be excelled;
Laurel is our new trade mark name for the
highest quality American Kerosene ever sold
in Australasia and replaces our old brand,
White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
La. 6
m,
mirrl
m
(*%
VE
v
i
>:
mm*
E
}
'
BEST
in the
LONG
RON.
DUVAL & CO.,
13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD.,
ADELAIDE,
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei.
You 37. No. 1908.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916.
Price 6d.
“Ladies and Gentlemen, behold this fierce Lion! By the simple
process of passing him through the hat he becomes at once
the mildest of mice! ”
THE CONJURER.


Special Notice to Agents.
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BUIXETIN.
You will therefore be good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 (is. 6cl. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia , post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, inhere prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
"IHitKCT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (Jordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — -The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co.. J/jl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home Neivs Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egvi’t. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
lloxo Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise 7 Soz., Id.; Sloz. to 10oz., 2id. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
ffi^svzZleZz/7i.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916.
CONSCRIPTION.
W. M. Hughes lias spoken the word for
which Australia impatiently waited, and the
word is Yes-No, with a slight stress on the
Y r es and a hint of pleading pathos in the No.
As a vaudeville turn the whole Hughes per-
formance has merit; as the action of a states-
man it is more like an ill-fitting jest. For
months the Commonwealth has been under an
increasingly autocratic control. The Aus-
tralian public has been kept in gross dark-
ness, shut out from real knowledge of passing
events even when those events had no more
bearing on 'the military situation than any-
thing may be said to bear upon it. On the
assumption that public knowledge was dan-
gerous, that Australia could not be trusted
to form an opinion, and that for the general
safety the Government must act without con-
sulting the democracy of the**Commonwealth,
military arrangements have been clandes-
tinely conducted by Ministers, and possibly
much else ; yet. when it comes to the question
of compulsory service, about the need for
which the Government, from its position,
knows everything and the public nothing,
Hughes and his colleagues side-step the
issue and hand over the decision to the elec-
tors whom they have previously blindfolded.
If it was necessary that Ministers during the
past months should act in vital matters with-
out consideration of the opinion of the
people, if is equally necessary that they
should so act at this time of crisis. If it is
desirable that the public will should be ascer-
tained on the one question of compulsory ser-
vice. it was penally desirable tb-m cm. pphU,.
should uot. be brushed aside in dealing with
matters gf less urgency perhaps, but of very
far-reaching consequence, as they arose. In
a word, the arbitrary actions of Ministers
during the past months are condemned and
proved wrong in form and spirit by the Gov-
ernment’s refusal to act now.' The only in-
terpretation that can be put upon the matter
is that W. M. Hughes, after his great
bluster in England, in the course of which he
spoke words in the name of Australia which
Australia never authorised him to speak, re-
turns to the Commonwealth at his wits’ end
to invent some trick by which his party can
be induced to give him enough authority to
save his face in England.
* * * *
But apart altogether from the scorn which
Australia must feel for Hughes, Peaece
and the other small persons who, after vio-
lating the principles of democracy, now in-
voke the aid of a democratic form to pull
themselves out of a hole, the proposed Refer-
endum is a thing that must be gravely faced.
Though kept in ignorance with regard to the
real position of this country and of our
troops abroad, we know enough to make it
clear that Australia has not been putting
her most effective weight into the punch
aimed at the Kaiser. We are asked to author-
ise compulsory service; and, in spite of a
noisy handful of opponents, there can be
little doubt that the great bulk of the people
of this continent favor the principle involved.
What does remain in doubt and must receive
the gravest consideration by every voter is
Avhether the present Ministry sufficiently
understands that principle to‘be entrusted
with the carrying out of the will of the
people in the matter. Under the voluntary
system the incapacity of those in authority
and the carnival of muddle in which they
have indulged have been glaringly shown.
Such matters are known and commented
upon in thousands of homes in Australia.
That the Australian spirit has blaze'd to dis-
tinction on the battlefields of the world is no
credit whatever to those who were in charge
of affairs in the Commonwealth. Thev did
their worst; Biix.tim did his best and to a
great extent nullified their muddling efforts.
To place in the hands of those authorities the
conduct of a scheme of compulsory service is,
at the least, dangerous. What the voters
ought to be permitted to decide is whether, if
they approve of universal service, the admin-
istration of it shall be left in the hands of
such men as Gardiner, the Assistant Minis-
ter of Defence, who is its uncompromising
enemy.
* * * »
The administration of a system of con-
scription demands at least impartiality, if
not sympathy. It means far more than a
mere raking. in of men promiscuously to
carry rifles and man trenches. To be worthy
it must mean national organisation—the
making use of the citizens of the Common-
wealth in the best possible way, not only for
actual war service, but for economic service
at home. The organising of a citizen soldiery
must go right to the root of the matter and,
considering our needs both at home and
abroad, give to every man the work for which
he is best fitted and in which he can render
best service. There is not the slightest indi-
cation that Hughes or his colleagues have
given a moment’s consideration to any ques-
tion beyond the mere sending forward of so
many soldiers per month ; and if conscription,
in their view, does not take in a full scheme
of national organisation, there is a very grave
possibility that in its working-out it may
cause injury to Australia which will more
than counterbalance any immediate gain at
the Front. The German is there in his
strength and it is our business to assist in
breaking the German ; but the final victory
would be a sorry one if it involved the
smashing of Australia by small party men
blind to the significance of the things that
really count.
THE CROWD BY THE YARRA AND
TWO MEN AND A DOG ELSE-
WHERE.
Members of the Victorian Assembly sat
down the other day to consider Bloat. Of
course, the subject of discussion was not
given its right name. They called it “the
unfortunate drift into the cities.” The result
of the talk was what usually happens when
politicians find themselves in a hole —they
set up a Commission to consider the matter.
The advantages of this dodge are numerous.
It gives the politicians time to start a yell
about something else apd it saves the public
from any violent disturbance. So in this
case, when the Commission has drawn
its fees, taken voluminous evidence and
made remarks, the weary old problem
will be just where it was before,
the work of the politicians still ahead, and
the job hardly any more easy to handle than
it was originally. “The drift to the cities”
is, in truth, not the result of two or three
causes which a Commission can put its
finger on and a Government can correct by
amending an Act. It is the consequence of a
public policy, common to the whole of Aus-
tralia, which in all its operations, from edu-
cation to finance, from railway construction
to land settlement, has had the effect of con-
centrating population into the inchoate,
struggling mobs inhabiting two or three
cities. This is the policy of Bloat, and the
outward and visible signs of it, apart from
the frequent motor-car bearing a stout per-
son to his office, are that 49 per cent, of the
population of Victoria are citizens of Mel-
bourne. In South Australia the metropoli-
tan population is 45 per cent, of all the
State’s; in N. S. Wales-it is 39 per cent.
The number of people living in Australia at
last census was under four and a half
millions, of whom nearly two millions were
in the six capital cities. The world knows
no parallel to this. The ratio to-day is even
more dismal, for what is called the “drift”
has been in full operation meanwhile.
But the truth is that the people of Aus-
tralia are not “drifting” into the cities,
lhey are rather being forced in by the
economic pressure arising from Bloat, by a
wooden-headed land policy that is making
land ownership the privilege of the well-to-
do and the occupant of land mostly a mort-
gage-ridden serf, and by the generally insane
notion afflicting Governments that any old
riling is good enough for the country. All
'he millions borrowed and spent on making
railways and roads in Victoria with an
alleged vieiv to opening up the country
have really been expended for the enrich-
ment of landowners, the erection of
barricades against settlement, and the glori-
fication of Melbourne. Everything has
been dragged towards the Yarra just as
N. S. Wales has pulley-hauled everything to
Sydney. Even such a distinctly rural
enterprise as butter-making has in Victoria
been superseded by one of carrying thou-
sands of tons of cream into Melbourne and
making the butter there. Shipping has
been concentrated there, the railways
planned and worked for the benefit of Mel-
bourne, and into Melbourne has poured the
Niagara of importations acquired by the
issue of the whole State's p.h. Wages have
been high in the cities, jobs easy to get, and
fleeting pleasures easy to capture because
of a bogus prosperity created by expenditure
of cash that had not been earned —all of
which has worked to the great benefit of the
importer and distributor and the city land-
lord. . Instead of opening other ports, en-
couraging industries to take root in the pro-
vincial towns, and breaking the power of
private land monopoly to hold the soil
against labor and insisting that the com-
munity should live by its own effort, Vic-
toria, like every other State in' Australia,
has worked in an exactly opposite direction.
They have all Bloated and boomed their
cities; the rest of the landscape has been
dotted with frowsy little villages, and the
population has hurried into congested sub-
urban areas to riot on what was earned plus
what could be borrowed from Cohen.
Instead of living on production they have
lived on pawn, and the producer is the
poorer for the experiment.
So long as successive Party Governments
cun dig themselves in by splodging loan
money about just so long will the obesity of
the State capitals mock at our talk of decen-
tralisation. For they flourish on what they
feed upon, and the bigger and more dis-
tended they get the hungrier they grow and
the more desperately must the politician bid
for their votes. Sydney, for instance, is start-
ing to get an underground railway and is
thinking it sees a vast bridge over the har-
bor ; and all of this ironmongery, .represent-
ing a scandalous misuse just now of money,
is a direct consequence of the expenditure
of other millions in creating Bloat. In the
same State millions have been spent and
are still being spent on railway duplications
so that more live stock and vegetation can
be hauled into Sydney, while other ports
lie neglected and empty gaping at the
Pacific. Bloat, with its magnets of higher
wages out of loans, with its picture shows,
pony racing and “go slow,” is what pulls the
farmer s son into the city and holds the
immigrant there, to join in activities which,
as Australian conditions are to-dav, ai*e
mainly parasitical and only in a limited
sense industrial. At the bottom of this
horror lies the high price of land. Aus-
tralian Governments have systematically
neglected their duty in this direction, with
the result • that the inflation has depressed
the earnings of the agricultural worker and
made the life of the farmer a long, unequal
struggle with the mortgage. Federal
Treasurer Higgs had something to say on
this subject lately, and incidentally men-
tioned that the majority of tramway men
in Sydney were farmers’ sons who had
pushed into the city because the return
from labor on the soil was not such as
could induce them to follow it. Higgs
thought that “something very drastic will
have to be done with this land question.”
Higgs was right. It will. But so far poli-
ticians find it easier to fob the doing of it
off by floating another loan, even though
that way leads to the Devil. Land values
are preposterous from the point of view of
the average young Australian setting out
to choose an occupation in life. To him
they represent an impassable barrier. In-
stead of being easily accessible to men and
absorbing labor, land is held against labor;
and that is why the politician, for his sins’,
is haunted by the spectre of unemployed.
Ir is all vicious and cannot endure. Cer-
tainly Australia can never be populated
under it. And the “drift to the cities” can
never be checked while it continues, for
there is nowhere else to drift to.
“BILLY, BILLY BUST!”
An awakened public knows now. All the
time he has been orating about the unex-
ampled bravery of the Anzacs and valiantly
attacking the Germans with rhetorical brick-
bats, fiercely announcing his intention of
tearing up upas trees and discovering
special hells for Kaisers, poor little Billy
has been quaking in his shoes and losing
bis nerve. Bet us be sorry for little Billy
as a busted Imperial blatherskite and a
clumsy party tactician, who when Australia
says “Yes” will walk the plank as sure as
Fate.
Let us be sorry, and not think
harshly of Billy, sitting in his little
dugout and leading the nation to vic-
tory by telling it to go on which-
ever way it likes and he will follow.
For party politicians are what a party
system rotten to the core makes them—
timid, supine and foxy. Rather should
Australians rejoice at the revelation they
have had of what Parliament is, of how
little it is entitled to claim that it is repre-
sentative of the people and of how poison-
ous a thing the caucus has grown. If ever
there was a happening that stripped Party
Government naked and showed how miser-
able an imposture it is, then this is it. If
ever there was a time when the nolicy cf
the Ministry should have been determined
by Parliament, then it ivas last week. But
the alleged leader who was “seeking the
light,” as well as the Ministry which had
been imposing a comic-opera dictatorship
on the country and the whole of Parliament,
was collared by a minority, which by im-
posing its will on a party majority enforced
obedience to a line of action distasteful
to the opinion of majorities in both Houses.
That may be good party manoeuvring; but
as a method of running a democratic coun-
try’s affairs it is putrid. There is no more
to be said for it than for the distorted use
to which the mis-called referendum is
being put. For years politicians of the
Hughes brand have been pledged to give
the people the referendum-initiative in a
form that would make it a regular part of
the system of government. They dodged
their obligations because they were jealous
of surrendering to the electors any part of
the powers conferred uoon them by election
to Parliament. Their aim—and it is the
aim of the politician everywhere—-was to
keep the people suppliant on the steps of
the Legislature. Had they done their duty
ahd redeemed their pledge the voice of the
people would have been heard on this ques-
tion on the day after war was declared; and
of their Own volition. It would have, been
a national mandate to a national Parlia-
ment. It would not have interfered with
party allegiances. This plebiscite, on the
other hand, will be a direction to party
politicians. It will intensify party enmities;
and it will do nothing to remove the
obstacles which made the shivering Hughes
halt in his windy career of saving civilisa-
tion.
* # * #
The Hughes type has been common in
every country in every age, and is familiar
to everyone who has tried to follow. the
moving story of human failure and achieve-
ment in the long struggle towards freedom
ih government. And it is a good, thing
for Australia that Hughes in faltering
showed his feet of clay so clearly for all to
see His hifalhtin about “autocracy
enforcing its will, while democracy ascer-
tains what the populace want and gives it
to them,” measures the man to a hair.
Ever since he took the wheel from Fisher
he has made government in Australia auto-
cratic to an extent the public does not yet
know. And with an uncritical, careless,
party-ridden public to deal with, the job of
jambing its head in a bag has not been
difficult. Hd climbed to leadership in an
hour of great crisis in the history of Aus-
tralia—and his utterances in England and
his throttling regulations in Australia are
J>roof that as a democratic leader he is a
est. English TotydOm quickly picked him
for what he is j English Radicalism speWed
him t out of its month. The part of Aus-
tralian Democracy which has not b§ett
drugged, spotted him long ago. And So did
the Sydney Herald. That old girl knew
what she was doing when she announced
that Hughes was the man for her ahd She
would follow him whither he chosCi
RESURGAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rattling down the grades ffom Bread&i-
bane to Gotilbhrh with the newest soil
breaking ftota the nest into the world of
work, and Watching his impatience to begin,
I remembefed how the tod-slow tfaih
climbed these grades with me a very eager,
wondering lad of 16. The N. S. Wales
Mines Department then controlled the
destructioh of rabbits —-probably because a
l-abbit is more miner than bhilder —and the
Mines Department gave me a free train pass
to Hay ahd told me to get out to the
Murrumbidgee and kill rabbits. 1 had no
money and I ate *all the tucker I had before
arriving at Goulburn, so that it should
not be in the Way. But there was much
water and the World was very new, and i
sat awake all night from Sydney to Junee
and all the day thereafter from Old Junee
to Ilay ; for all the magic of the Riverina
light was being seen for the first time, and
the red and buff loams, with the sap-green
of the young saltbush breaking and tremb-
ling in the wind as if its leaves were green
flame. The sheep and the plains, the scarlet
tresses of the pepper trees and the winelike
air to intoxicate —these made me forget
that 1 Was hungry through all that day of
places whose names were in themselves
romance to the romantic.
So began my wanderings in earnest, and
here was I assisting a son to the same old-
made desire.
I had seen him the night before writing
in his new notebook and had taken it from
his hand to read the most recent entries.
It was a jumble—the formula for calculat-
ing ore in a vein preceded by the statement
that the Coota. wattle is beginning to fade,
and followed by a quick descrintion of the
man who sat next me—“a big man with
chins, smoking a fat cigar and warming his
calves against a footwarmer set on end.”
So here is resurrection. It is the repeti-
tion of any old notebook of mine:—
Mina Reto gallery driven 115 metres ; width here
49 metres ; value 2 per mille.
A little dog with his tail cut off very short steal-
ing sausage-skins at Santa Flora.
The girls take off their boots in crossing stones,
as boots wear out and feet are imperishable.
How far the facts will repeat themselves
and leave this boy, who intends to be a
mining engineer, a mere pendulum between
mine-chasing and writing is another matter.
Meantime I live again in this boy; my
tricks and foolishnesses, as well as my
decent desires and the daily war of the
mental and the physical—of brain and body.
It js not given to all men to stand upon a
train platform and wave good-bye to his
own resurrection, waiting eagerly for the
moment when he may stride out and seize
life with both hands.
My resurrection will find a better Aus-
tralia and a greater duty than I. He will
find also a greater enemy. Not a different
enemy but a stronger.
Our great enemy was the worst expression
of the imported people—the fear of the
new that made these earlier immigrants lie
as to the alleged beauties of the old; the
blind nostalgia that makes the filth of a
London alley seem more desirable than the
happiness and sunlight of our own land.
These low-grade people—now bettered out
of recognition by the superior conditions of
the new land—introduced the rabbit, the
fcx, the starling, the sweetbriar, the thistle,
the sparrow, the gorse and the blackberry
and all the other pests that ignorance made
itself happy with when it discovered the
terrible truth that it had been landed in a
pure, clean country. Then, to delay that
which was to them the only possible pesti-
lence, the growth of an Australian national
spirit, they introduced and recognised sec-
tarianism. knowing that while the Orange
and the Green fight each other they have no


time to criticise privilege or kings. They
commended Freetrade as the only true
.English policy (which it is really, being
hopelessly fatheaded) ; and any attack on
Freetrade—the means by which the English
gave Germany the money to fight us with
—-was rank blasphemy. In 20-odd years
the Australian democracy had by sheer
hard, work broken down privilege, and
given some meaning to the cry of “Liberty”
and a new significance to the word “Ausr
tralia.” It was done all by sheer hard work
—hard work in the public cause for nothing.
There was never a more sacrificial people
than the rank and file of the Australian
Labor movement. They worked all day at
their trades and at night canvassed, spoke
at open-air meetings, sat up half the night
painting calico signs “Vote Labor,” used
the Saturday afternoon “getting names on
the roll.” The organisation was so vast
that had all these people to be paid the
scheme must have collapsed; and if they
had been paid the service would have been
worthless. But just because these people
were great workers in the daytime for
wages, so were they great workers after
hours for nothing, being paid by hope and
enthusiasm. Their demands were on the
employer for higher wages; for the eight-
hour system; for sanitary working condi-
tions. It does not seem to have occurred
to them to advocate the smashing of the
employer’s plant, which could but have the
effect of preventing disputes about work by
destroying the means to work. They did
not ask for the best possible wages and then
do the worst possible work. As a gospel
“loafing on the job” was unknown.
And then, when the weapon of the ballot
box was being handled as never before and
Labor had found that, within limits reason-
able only for the day, and to be continuously
altered and enlarged. Labor is the master,
the worst immigrants that ever were per-
mitted to enter a clean country came to put
back the clock of Australia by half a cen-
tury. Those empty noises, the Tilletts
and the Manns, aching like true mission-
aries who leave the starving savages of
London to preach gloom to the happy
niggers of the Coral Sea, preached the first
of the damnable I.WAV. doctrine ; and the
diffident Australian, respecting anything
that came from afar and lied boldly, took a
long time to advise these wasters to return
to the country that wanted missionaries
more than any other country on earth.
Thereafter “Ca’ Canny” and “Go Slow”
and “Loaf on the Job” became slogans more
and more impudent. In England, than
which no country has been so cold and
callous to its poor, it is easy to understand
that people underpaid and underfed had
only one protection, and that the lazy strike;
but apart from that the Englishman can’t
work alongside the Australian because he
isn’t as good a man. And the way that
“Ca’ Canny” began to apply itself more
surely to the Australian was that the
imported workman —who was also the agi-
tator —could not work alongside the Aus-
tralian, and therefore it was the Australian’s
output that had to be reduced to that of
the less efficient, who finally set the pace
for the shop.
The slogan of the I.WAV. has become so
impudent that one of its lights at Broken
Hill recently advocated the smashing of
mine machinery and made a few left-handed
threats of violence against the shift boss.
It is all the woolclip to a pound of dates
that this amiable creature was imported;
and if it be so his deportation should happen
with great velocity.
The Australian hates that talk because
he is not a machine-breaker, a horse-maimer
or a secret assassin; but his “loyalty” (a
word which means mostly the mental atti-
ti.de of being always with the mob) and his
hatred of the mere suspicion of being a
“scab” make him agree to a course his brain
knows to be valueless and his heart feels to
bo contemptible.
The ship from which I write, at Levuka,
had trouble among the firemen because of
some childish difference of opinion as to
whether corned beef was corned or uncorned
—the negative being stated loudly by a
few men who desire beef as salt as Lot’s
wife. To the beef question was added a
crew’s cook with a good record but person-
ally disliked by a few of the men. So they
played lazy strike across the Pacific from
Fiji, and slowed the ship down knots. In
Australian waters they refrained from giv-
ing in the 24 hours’ notice until the day
before sailing. At sailing hour there were 14
firemen short. The ship anchored in Neu-
tral Bay to wait her complement and left
Sydney 25 hours late. There were 27 fire-
men, and 26 of these wanted to stick to
duty; but they were outnoised by one man
and he imported from London. Impudently
the case was stated for them. “Well, if we
do go to sea we’ll let her crawl. Our con-
tract’s not for speed—only to take her into
Suva.”
Nothing worse could happen to Australia,
not even war. War is a pestilence that
passes: but this habit of starting work
with the ear strained for the knock-off
whistle is a canker that eats deeper and
has but one course. It is useless if the
enemy were at the gate to-morrow for some
men to love Australia well enough to die
for it while other men didn’t care enough
to work for it with honest effort. To cart
bricks from one heap to another is a thing
few Australians could take money for, for
as a people we are not time-servers; and
the killing of any of these methods which
will assuredly kill his self-respect and his
respect for his nation is one of the great
works the present and post-war Australian
has to face. Building of cross-continent
railways, salving of lost rivers, funding the
debts, irrigating the deserts and building
dreadnoughts and submarines for the protec-
tion of all these —these are great works
impossible of fruition unless the spirit of
Australian labor has been leached of this
imported poison of the lazy strike.
But the youngsters are to be trusted,
because they are Australian. And among
the million who are our new hope
I put that son of mine: frank, clear-
eyed. loving Australia as his mother, believ-
ing in Australia and in nowhere else; he who
is my resurrection in the flesh, and will help
Australia’s resurrection in the spirit.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Electoral Reform, Efficiency and
Economy.
Anxiety to give Billjim a vote at the
general election has produced a quaint pro-
posal in the Ma State Assembly. This is that
the law should be amended to provide for
votes by proxy, and that Premier Holman
and Opposition Wade should be the proxies.
The idea is that before the local Anzac flees
for the fray he should hand over his vote
to one or other of these persons, who would
use it at the psychological moment.
Of course the Anzac would _in nine
cases out of ten have no idea who
the vote was going to be cast for, what
policies the person who got it had been
expounding, what “mandate” was being
given or anything else. It might. happen
that during the campaign the machine can-
didate was proved to be a blithering idiot,
an escaped Hun, a wolf in sheep’s clothing,
a bigamist, an ignorant blatherskite or a
professional cadger. But that of course
would matter nothing. The Anzac, hacking
his way to glory or the grave while all the
world wondered, could do. and dare happy in
the knowledge that his scrap of paper was
going into the ballot-box, anyhow. It is a
quaint notion, yet entitled to the admiration
of all true party barrackers. For the idea
crystallises with singular directness the Par-
liamentary system and all the abominations
of party. The party politician’s view of the
elector is always that he is a chip in the
game of poker—either a red or a white, a
Lib or a Lab; something to be carried
around in the pocket of a boss or kept in a
bag. It is a deplorable notion, yet of
Party it is the very essence. But the great
merit of this proposed system of voting on
the blind is that it points to an easy, inex-
pensive and speedy method of electing the
Assembly—one which in the interests of
Party, economy and decency should be
adopted. The Bulletin therefore suggests
that every elector should register himself as
a Lib or a Lab; that the party machine
should choose certain candidates, or have
them foisted on it; that Wade and Holman
should agree on a Day of Decision, and on
the fateful morning should ring up the com-
piler of the rolls to bring along his stationery
and in the presence of 75 detectives and
auditors tot up the numbers registered on
either side. With a decent system of
accountancy and daily balance of electors
the thing could be worked with absolute
accuracy, and instead of the streets being
filled with bellowing mobs on election night
and harassed officials struggling with ballot-
boxes and quaking candidates wondering
whether they had caught the ’bus. all the
details could be ready for the afternoon
papers, interviews given to the reporters,
drinks consumed before six, and the leading
articles worked off in an atmosphere of calm
and certainty. There would be a great sav-
ing of time and money, and a lot of people
could earn an honest brown stalking the
elector for purposes of registration. Above
all things, there would be no necessity for a
regiment of perspiring individuals to hire
halls and motor-cars and wear their throats
out. If they “speeches” are immaterial to
the Anzac, why inflict them on his wretched
parents ?
Mr. Asquith’s “Leadership.”
The latest principle that Mr. Asquith has
unwillingly adopted is Female Franchise.
In the House of Commons the other Mon-
day night he “frankly admitted that although
he had been a lifelong opponent of granting
women the suffrage, he could no longer deny
their claim.” Poor old Asquith must be get-
ting used to the discomfort of announcing his
acquiescence in a policy which has always
been repugnant to his slackbaked Liberalism.
The path of the war is strewn with the old
man’s broken resolutions. He is for ever
making sacrifice of some ancient faith on the
altar of expediency. Party Government, he
confessed to a newspaper interviewer, was
his ideal form of government, yet he con-
sented to the reconstruction of his Cabinet
on coalition lines. Early in 1915 he shrank
appalled from Lloyd George’s proposal to
disturb the vested interests of the liquor
trade, but the public trod on his heels, and
he legislated against Derrink. Eighteen
months ago he affected to treat the question
of compulsory service as an almost negligible
suggestion. Yet in the end he swallowed the
pill without a murmur. And now the old
opponent of Women’s Suffrage admits in ad-
vance that the sex is bound to get the vote.
This is the first time the much-converted
“Minister has dropped a principle before it
became actually too hot for him to hold. The
recanting of foolish dogmas comes easier to
him every time. Probably the statue of
Richard Cobden is quaking at the knees,
and the Manchester School sickens at the
possibility of its legal adviser reluctantly
renouncing the gospel of Freetrade. The
wolves of reform are chasing his sleigh, and
Asquith is throwing out his beloved politi-
cal convictions one by one. Freetrade is the
last of them. If he cannot reach the goal of
his wife’s ambition without throwing that
overboard, too—well, out it will go!
Asquith seemingly is such an acommodat-
ing Imperialist that there’s nothing he
wouldn’t do for the Empire’s sake—except
throw himself out.
The Cave Woman .anil the Woman of
1916.
Woman’s attitude towards war is a queer
thing. She loathes it —and in her inner-
most heart loathes the man who isn’t there.
A paradox? Not at all. When she lived in
a cave with a hairy mate the male was the
fighting animal who slew the dinosaurus,
brought her a piece of raw steak and hunted
the gorilla off the premises. When they
ventured into open spaces, man was still
the animal she walked behind and ran for
piotection to when the foreign buck arrived
to drag her away by the hair on a honey-
moon. All through time it has been so, and
the feminine mind, stirred by the distant
tramp of the Hun and the echo of his orgy
of arson and pillage and rape, is swept by
the revival of its historic promptings. Any
man whose wife or best girl objects to him
going to the fray need not flatter himself
that she does this because she loves him.
She is only frightened that he may get hurt
because he is not big and strong enough
for the job. And all the time she is wishing
to Heaven he was a better sample of his
kind, who would rush off with an axe and
smite 15 heads off the enemy. If he is a
pale, anaemic person, or a rotundity gone in
the wind, she reckons he had better stay
behind —but still to fight for her daily piece
of steak and her spring millinery. If he is
just a plain shirk she admires someone else
—and orders more steak and millinery just
to keep the man she doesn’t admire busy.
And, after all, the woman is right. It is
the man’s job to fight and dig and hunt;
and when enough of him cannot tear himself
away from his slippers—well, then the
woman goes under, and the possibility of
this happening is the first thing she thinks
of when she hears there are gorillas about.
Judging by the remarks of various people of
the Liberal persuasion, many members bf
that body imagine that on the Labor party
being ousted Australia will revert to the ways
of long ago, when pretty well nothing was
regulated by law, and Private Enterprise was
allowed to rob and sweat the weak at its
free will.- Those who think so are as hope-
lessly out of touch with the spirit of the
times and the spirit of Australia as the <'on-
servative generally is. No matter what
political party holds office, it must conform
to the sentiment of the public, or mark time
till an avalanche falls on it, when it will
make way for someone else. Even before
the war the Joe Cook Government was not
game to overset any of the “Socialistic”
.schemes they had so ferventlv denounced,
while two of their own pre-election promises
were (1) a scheme of cheap parcel postage
for farmers’ produce, and (2) a still more
beautiful Socialistic scheme for national in-
surance. And now when the war has shown
up the danger of a continent, inhabited by a
few millions of people, taking no heed of
whether the bulk of the people are cared for
or not —careless of whether we build up a
nation capable of defending itself or remain
forever depending upon a country that has
troubles enough of its own —the impossi-
bility of relapsing into the conditions of the
past is 10 times more pronounced. When
the Labor party is overthrown it will not be
because of being true to democracy but for
proving recreant. Whatever politicians are
in office they will have to go forward in
national Organisation. The Conservative
ideal seems to be the glorious days of King
Billy and scorched ’possum for breakfast.
♦
“Dyer” : Some say there’s no “go slow”
policy, others say that the yarns about it
ire greatly exaggerated, and a third lot
chink it is going to kill our industries. I
have no cast-iron opinion about it—only a
concrete case. A man in my line of business
has a plant valued at about £2000, pays in
wages about £50 per week and now has to
jive 20s. a pound for dyes which prior to
the war cost him about so many pence. As
things are now, he draws less per week
from his business than do his foreman dyer
and foreman cleaner. Recently he got a
line of material, 1000 yards, from an im-
porting house, to dye black at Sd. per yard.
Under normal conditions he would have
made a profit of, say, 5 per cent, on the
job, at 4d. per yard; but in his dye-
house he has an immigrant dyer—a chap
who knows his trade and something else
beside. “Go slow” methods appeal to him,
ind he and the hands under him went slow
to such good effect that the job cost almost
is much in labor as the boss got for it.
When the job was finished and the boss had
lone moaning he was quietly told by his
‘pommy” employee that he was a dashed
fool not to have hit ’em up for two bob a
yard at the start. The dyer knew better;
he knew that* big houses send silk all the
way back to Japan to be re-dyed black,
because with freight and insurance counted
in, they can get it done cheaper than the
local dyer can do it even if he leaves himself
anly a crust.
♦ —
Sydney felt a nasty jolt last week when it
was warned that, though summer has not
yet started, the garden-hose must be put
away. The reports of the Water Board
about tapping additional supplies from Bur-
ralow Creek and Grose River are not par-
ticularly satisfactory; and the further in-
quiries to be made are half-damned already
by the results of previous investigations.
Whatever may be done to palliate a situa-
tion as gloomy as it is disgraceful, the whole
business seems to shout in the ears of poli-
ticians to get a move on in the matter of
decentralisation. Nobody knows the capa-
bilities of this old continent in the way of
turning off moisture at long intervals. Some
droughts have been known that were very
long and dry affairs in many districts; and
while, with proper conservation, there can
be no doubt that at the worst there will
always be enough water to go round for an
evenly-distributed population, there may be
very grave doubts about finding enough
within a hundred square miles or so if a
sixth of the whole population of a conti-
nent is congested into that area. Possibly,
if Providence decided to decentralise things
by holding back rain from the Sydney catch-
ment area, the Government might make
another rush towards fulfilling its promise
of opening the closed ports to north and
south of Circular Quay. Or, again, it might
merely have the 167th report made on the
question.
♦
This may help to explain why trade con-
tinues to rattle towards the bloated State
capitals in spite of the thousands of pounds
that are being spent on the outer ports in
piers, etc. A tramp arrived in Portland
( Vic.) with timber. When about to depart
empty, the locals asked the Wheat Pool for
a few tons of grain from the up-country
stacks. The request was graciously granted,
and the wheat arrived in Portland —in un-
covered trucks, wet. The skipper snorted
on seeing his intended cargo, but finally took
it in with an equal weight of bad language.
Later on another timber boat arrived, and
again the Pool was approached re a wheat
cargo. Yes, Portland could have it, if the
boat would take delivery of the stuff at the
country station where it was stacked! On
hearing this absurd condition Skipper No. 2
indignantly dragged his gangways inboard
and departed for dear old Melbourne, where
delivery need not be taken at Ouyen, Swan
Hill, Dookie or any other inland spot.
-o-
The Holman Government, faced with the
problem of what to do with the spoil that
is going to be, accumulated when Norton
Griffiths starts burrowing out the under-
ground railway in Sydney, is talking about
using it to “reclaim part of Farm Cove and
give the citizens several acres of additional
park.” This paper hopes that the Navvies’
Union will show its civic spirit by going on
strike against its members being made the
tools for carrying out any such scheme, and
that the Town Planners’ Association will
rise to the occasion and give the strike
moral and financial support. Farm Cove
is a historic spot, its contour unchanged
since Phillip hung his washing out there
in the long ago. It is the water-frontage to
one of the most beautifully-situated public
gardens in the world. The curve of the
little bay harmonises exquisitely with the
gentle sweep of the ground towards the
Domain. It is a place to leave alone. To
fill it in will be to destroy it historically, to
maim a picture, and to lay the foundation
for further evil deeds by those greedy van-
dais who everlastingly watch for chances
to tinker with public property.
Hamlet, Act III, Scene 1.
[Rewritten for THE BULLETIN.]
Enter Hughes :
To lead or not to lead: that is the question:
Whether ’tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of Australia’s cen-
sure,
Or to take arms against the 1.W.W.,
And by conscription end them? To funk,
to sleep ;
No more ; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart-ache and the thousand party
shocks
A politician’s heir to, ’tis a consummation
Devoutly'to be wished. To lead, to act;
Perchance to be kicked out: ay, there’s the
rub;
For in that desert what regrets may come
When we have shuffled off this Labor coil
Must give us pause; there’s the respect
That makes calamity of civil life;
For who would bear the whips of Labor
Leagues,
The Worker’s spite, wharf-lumpers’ con-
tumely,
The Sydney Herald’s love, the writ’s delay,
The insolence of Jo kook and the spurns
The outcast politician has to take,
When he himself might power and office keep
With a referendum? Who would fardels
bear
To grunt and sweat once more in civil life,
But that the dread of something worse than
death,
The Opposition country from whose bourn
No Premier returns, puzzles the will
And makes us rather bear the Party we
have .
Than fly to others that we know well of?
Thus Party does make cowards of us all;
And thus the Empire hue of resolution
Is sicklied o’er with the pale fear of boot,
And enterprises of great pitch and moment
With this regard their currents turn awry,
And lose the name of Empire.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Honor of the King.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Central Powers have agreed on the appoint-
ment of Prince Leopold of Bavaria as King of
Poland, which is to have autonomy.
Monarch of ruined Poland! A poor thing—
In days like these made foul with battle
smoke—
It seems to hold the sceptre of a king,
And tremble waiting for the counterstroke
Of conquering foes whose steady, even tread
Moves towards the throne by pathways wet
and red.
Crushed, broken, pitiful in all men’s sight,
The wasted lands cry out against the horde
Of Prussian bandits who, in scorn of right,
Advance their claims by merit of the sword.
Here Famine rules as lord and king alone:
What bold usurper dares to share his throne?
Strange are the pale ambitions that may
move
Small, dull-eyed men that mark not time or
change.
These battle flames earth’s large pretensions
prove;
The guns of Man begin to find the range.
Yet, with doom standing on the front door
mat,
One will make haste to don a golden hat!
To reign a month o’er famine, death and
shame,
To join the rout of those that fear and flee,
To be a king in jest and wear a name
Whose mention is the whole world’s mock-
ery—
It seems poor business, but to some small
soul
It must be high ambition’s loftiest goal!
King of the Poles? Not he! A king of
graves,
Bloodied and blackened with a people’s hate,
A living lie, while truth that heals and saves
Moves to the reckoning biv with hope and
fate.
Get the crown quickly on his noble head ;
Pour out the oil and take the prayers as
read!
Tumultuous thunder of a thousand guns !
The Cossack sabres gleam across the land.
Ho, king, be speedy ! See, your army runs !
Don’t wait for long court-speeches or the
band!
Who goes so swiftly? Lo, at that alarm,
The new king bolts, his crown beneath his
arm!
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.


The Demons of Destruction on Every Road
are Powerless Against GOODYEAR TYRES.
ABK THE USERS.
The quality of the materials of which Goodyear
Tyres are made, the expert hands which fashion
them, the continual testing throughout every opera-
tion, and, above all, the maintenance of their high
and fairly-acquired reputation, constitute an insur-
ance for all users.
Under normal conditions of correct load and proper
inflation the Goodyear All-Weather Tread will
average 6000 miles—many have done over 10,000
miles in Australia during the past two years.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
231 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne. Macquarie Street, Hobart
103 St.. George’s Terrace, Perth. 6 Chesser Street, Adelaide.
92 Creek Street, Brisbane. 6 Mercer Street, Wellington.
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes arc now obtainable throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
THEY KNOW
BEST.
THE PARAMOUNT
Motion Picture Magazine.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION
2/-
POST FREE.
SINGLE COPY, 2d.
Write for Specimen Copy.
PARAMOUNT MAGAZINE,
Cinema House, Druitt Street, Sydney
The Kaiser Tosses his Boss General
Overboard.
Few of tlie yarns about what is happening
in Germany are worth remembering; but one
or two recent occurrences may be accepted
as better pointers to the condition of the
enemy than the reports of ail the battles
fought since .the war began. One is
the dismissal of Von Falkeniiayn, chief
of the General Staff; the other is Rou-
mania’s leap into the fray. Men like
Falkeniiayn are not scrapped by Emperors
when all is going well or even seeming to
go well. Nor do nations like Koumania join
themselves, as a rule, to the losing side
when the other is open to them. Koumania
has been watching this struggle from a front
seat, so far as it has proceeded close to hex-
own boundary fences, and from the windows
of her Embassy at Berlin she has viewed
that off-stage part of the performance of
which the outside world gets no more than
an occasional unreliable hint. Her entrance
to the quarrel amounts therefore to parti-
cularly cheering news that things are going
the right way. Where the changed condi-
tions have nut the Greek in this business
will be clear to him when he finds out, and
not before. Meantime the gentleman who
married the Kaiser’s sister appeax-s to have
gone to bed with a cold in the uneasy head
that wears a crown ; but before he went he
seems to have told the politicians to fight
it out among themselves. As something
like a revolution has developed and the
population is springing to arms the situa-
tion now is that Spain, Holland, Denmark,
Norway, Sweden and Switzei’land are the
only places in Europe where the dove of
peace can roost in safety. And the German
is said to be looking at Denmark with so sour
an eye of distrust that the Dane is going to
take a referendum. The story may be an
invention. But, whether it is or not, the
prospects for the Allies are brighter than
ever they were and the encouragement
greater to keep the punch working. Yet
the reasons are still overwhelming fox-
rejecting with derision the comforting theory
that victory lies behind the next row
of barbed wire. Germany’s grip on
conquered territory has yet to be shifted;
and how Australia is to keep going on
the job was to have been the subject of
further explanation by Hughes yesterday.
The casualty lists received during' the week
leave no sort of doubt about what is happen-
ing to the Billjim army and the worse
things that will inevitably ‘happen if the
places of those who are killed and wounded
are not filled. The thing the German wants
least is to be smitten harder than he can hit
back. The thing he wants most to see is
the other side commencing to go slow. If
we want to oblige the German we shall be
the fii-st to start to go slow ; and we can do
it by the simple plan of denying our boys
the reinforcements they need. On the other
hand, those of us who want to give the fel-
lows at the Front a fair chance will keep the
eye fixed steadfastly on one date—October 28.
And by the answer Australia will give in
the Referendum on that day the men at
the Front will know that their brothers,
their fathers, their mothers and their sisters
have not forgotten them.
+
Last week an alleged story, written
apparently by a young woman, reached this
office. It would, in the ordinary course,
have received a single line of comment in
Answers to Correspondents and been passed
oxer like thousands of well-meant fii-st
attempts, but for a certificate of merit
which accompanied it. For even a first
attempt it would have been very poor; the
writer had little idea of ordinary composi-
tion and grammar, not to speak of spelling,
and none at all of story construction. No
critic of experience could have honestly said
that the five broad pages of manuscript gave
any hint at all of promise; and this paper
would have deemed it cruelty to suggest
that the writer should even continue her
efforts on the literary track. Yet this lame
and hopeless attempt bore the certificate of
a Correspondence College, of Melbourne and
Sydney, setting forth that it was the i-esult
of the twenty-ninth lesson in short-story
writing and that it was “excellent.” Fur-
ther, on the manuscript itself were the
words in red ink: “I think you might do
well with short, realistic sketches wx-itten
like this with an eye to the humorous side
of life.” This was evidently the endorse-
ment of the instructor whose name —quite
unknown to this paper—appeared on the
rubber-stamp impression on the certificate
attached. A correspondence college that
can attain results like these in 29 lessons
aixd then marks them “excellent” ought to be
widely known ; also it ought to make widely
known just what those 29 lessons cost the
learner. The best short-story writers in
Australia would hesitate to px-etend that
they could teach stox-y writing as a craft,
any more than our poets would pretend to
teach poetry or joke-makers to teach humor;
but where the real experts would fear to
tread a correspondence college, it appears,
steps gaily in and collects the cash from
ambitious and no doubt generally poor boys
and girls. It may be good business; but to
encourage hopeless effort at so many shil-
lings per encouragement seems to this paper
a good deal like cruelty combined with
fraud.
After wrestling with the matter in two
courts the Law has decided that an uncer-
tificated bankrupt cannot insure his life for
his own benefit. But it was a close finish,
the High Court deciding by a bare majority
in a Bench of five in favor of an appeal
lodged by the official assignee of the bank-
rupt estate. The argument raged round the
affairs of a Sydney medical man declared
bankrupt in 1592, who later, and before
securing his discharge, insured his life for
£SOO. Justice Street thought the Public
Trustee, as administrator of the deceased
estate, was entitled to the cash, but that
official has now been ordered to pay the
Official Assignee whatever coin may be left
after an animal named Costs has been satis-
fied.
When it comes to a ballot —or a refer-
endum—Noise is liable to have a bad time.
An outsider would suppose that at Broken
Hill the “militants” would sweep the
board. Yet Cann, with all the sins of the
Holman Government on his shoulders, man-
aged to land ahead of his “militant” oppo-
nent in the Labor ballot; and downright,
forthright Jabez Wright, the roughest dia-
mond that ever cursed Go Slow and the
rest of the I.W.W. ’outfit, beat Considine,
the man who has made most of the recent
uproar on the Barrier, by nearly five to one.
Alfred Pfaff, a Melbourne importer, is
accused of attempting to trade with a Ger-
man exporter. No matter whether the accu-
sation be true or not, it is another reminder
of the fact that merchant firms of alien
birth are, in a perfectly natural way, dis-
posed to import alien goods, if only because
they are in the best position to do it. This
is a point to be considered before the war
ends. Our fiscal policy must be inspired by
racial policy, and the all-important racial
policy is to encourage local manufactures,
while discouraging alien influences that work
against them —German Lutheran schools,
for instance.
In getting Supply from the N. S. Wales
Assembly the other night, Premier Holman
did a little towards paring the claws of an
old-established atrocity. There are married
school-teachers getting £llO per annum—
equivalent to the minimum wage of £2 2s.
per week granted to laborers ages ago. The
Government proposed to raise these screws
to £136 and in some cases actually to £156.
But the instructor of young Australia at
£2 12s. 6d. a week is still abominably under-
paid, even if he is only half as good an
instructor as he should be.
James P. Dennistoun, of Canterbury
(M.L.), was a survivor of Scott’s Antarctic
expedition. No doubt he expected that to
be the most exciting thing in his life; but
it wasn’t. The war made him a member of
the Royal Flying Corps, and now news
comes that his machine caught fire when
over the German lines and he died of
wounds soon after smashing to earth.
Died in Melbourne last Friday. .George
Clayton, accountant. Sent from "the anti-
podes nearly 40 years ago to escape a cold
grave, he commenced his second life bv
entering the City of Melbourne Bank, and
was accountant when the smash came in
1893. On the formation of an assets reali-
sation co. to see that the securities had
decent burial, Clayton was appointed to his
old job, and his high qualifications helped
to make the concern a success far bevond
the early dreams.
Killed in France, Kenneth Bell, lieutenant
son of “Bob” Bell, managing-director of the
North Coast Steam Cos., Sydney. Young
Bell was a Sydney Grammar boy, who with
the view of specialising in Admiralty law
went to sea. He was shipwrecked in the
barque Verajean off the Welsh coast, finished
his time in steam, and then, getting his
second-mate’s ticket, came home as an officer
of anew steamer—the Wollongbar—for
dad’s co. He was in his third year of the
Sydney Uni. law course when he got into
khaki and left for Egypt last January.
N. S Wales Education Department is
thinking of a time of joy when the sealing-
up of little Billy during the best hours of the
day will be a thing of the past. The Depart-
ment, which has long been toying with the
idea of open-air classrooms, is building at
Brighton-le-Sands—the circus name for
Ladv Robinson’s Beach—a model school
which, while it. provides shelter from rain
and wind, is otherwise an open-air institu-
tion. If this is a success future schools will
be built upon the same plan. But it will
take a long time for all the existing per-
manent and reproductive microbe works to
wear out.
AN EPIGRAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis only the riff-raff that won’t go to light,
Aral so, to their duty to bend ’em,
Australia’s adopting a course that’s quite right—
It’s holding a Riff-raff-erendum!
QUEENSLAND.
JAMES A. PHILP.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Florodora”
Criterion “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford”
Royal “Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson”
Palace Royal Strollers
Tivoli ..,. Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre .....; Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “The Land of Promise”
King’s “Peg o’My Heart”
Princess’s “The Follies of Pleasure”
Tivoli .Mclntosh's Vaudeville t o.
The Gonsalez Opera Co. has a cellar-full
of tenors. In “Cavalleria Rusticana” it
produced another of these attractive song-
sters—the boyish-looking Lois. An emo-
tional Turridu, he warbled passionately of
his love for Lola, only pausing to salaam
to the applause. Most of this Italian co.
will remove its hat even in the throes of an
artistic murder to acknowledge the compli-
ments of the audience. Though it was
well staged, there were no thrills in this
snippet of opera. Then followed “I Pagli-
acci” and the sensation of the evening*
Another tenor, of course. This time it was
a handsome, young mail who looked
as if he could cht Dorrigo timber as easily
as a city clerk chips a lead-pencil. Balboni
by name, he sang without a flaw the music
Leoncavallo puts into Canio’s mouth. His
acting was of the stormy, hair-raising quality.
Unmoved from his fell purpose of stabbing
the faithless Nedda (Miss Visoni), he sang
through a hurricane of “Bravas.” Baritone
Scamuzzi was the Tonio of the cast; and
Gonsalez got its moderate best out of the
orchestra.
* * * *
“Lucia di Lammermoor” gave a Sydney
audience the joy of seeing an Italian chorus
in kilts. The signors wore their red tartan
leggings as leggings, or as bandages below
the knees. Lucia’s bad brother Henry (he
who plots to wed her to the hated Arthur)
was tall Belloni, in flaming tartans. Ray-
mond, rotund in black velvet, was played by
the sonorous basso, Cacialli, disguised under
a splintery brown wig. The orchestra over-
weighted Miss Lucia Gonsalez when she
warbled her first remarks to her friend Inez |
but later on the pure tones of her canary-like
trills were heard to perfection. This was
in the famous Mad Scene-. She is the
soprano dr, luxe of the company. A charming
Lucia, she died gracefully with her white
satin slippers turned to Heaven. Barontini,
in the small part of Arthur, was inadvertently
the comic relief in sky-blue satin, with frills
like dog Toby’s. Cappelli, the distracted
lover of Lucia, was an Edgar of exceeding
lyric charm, who stabbed himself (with care)
amongst the tombs of his ancestors. His last
moments made the Opera House resound with
melody. Death has no terrors for an
Italian tenor. He retains his grip on a high
0 and perishes with a swan-song of superla-
tive lung power. The chorus ladies, in
scratch costumes, sang in tune; and Giovanni
Gonsalez controlled the emotions of the
orchestra.
“TRAVIATA," AT SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Germont ( Filippini) and Dr. Dervil
(Cesaroni) .
Concerning a picture show where you can
escape from Charlie Chaplin:—
The annual exhibition of the Royal Art Society
of N. S. Wales, now open in the Public Instruction
Theatre, is a valuable show. It is marked 2730
guineas, f.o.b. In these days of war-economy the
rise in quotations for wattle-blossom and gum-trees
and sand and moons and waves—-all necessary com-
modities—certainly calls for the services of a price-
fixing commission.
But if that commission were composed of genuine
artists there would be a tremendous slump, and any
housewife could purchase for 23d. vast canvases now
priced 70 guineas. In this amazing hotch-potch of
irresponsible paintings there are just about a dozen
pictures that are worth any critical appreciation.
These include Chas. E. S. Tindall’s “Central Wharf”
and “Woolloomooloo Bay,” excellent harbor stuff; a
portrait (146) by J. A. Bennett; Gordon L. Tindall’s
“Meditation,” rather ineffective, but possessing other
good qualities; James R. Jackson’s group, including
the sunlit “Holiday,” a nice piquant little girl in
warm brown, the picture of a maid in old-fashioned
costume (these figure studies are put on canvas with
a pleasing directness that shows up the vague fum-
bling of oilier exhibitors: Jackson knows what he
wants to get, and goes directly to get it, the only
trouble being that Jackson doesn’t aim to get any
further than a presentation of the pleasing and
obvious) ; the same painter’s delightful and faithful
study of Shell Cove ; a small, brilliant impression in
green by Norman Carter, done with a sure hand that
has wobbled when he tackled the unpleasing portrait
of a child with hair that doesn’t look quite like hair,
and a dress that doesn’t look quite like a dress, and a
“TROVATORE” AT SYDNEY OPERA
MOUSE.
Count at Luna (Sea[?]zz[?]) find the chorus.
lack of atmosphere that makes the child look like i
paper figure stuck upon the unrelated background;
and Gustave A. Barnes’s delightful impression of
“A Calm.”
There are others. Gustave A. Barnes’s “Pipes of
Pan” is ambitious, a rare quality in this , mass of
mere sedulous paint; but his “Pan and the Nymphs”
look more rather like mud statues. (Maybe they are
q group of statuary.) A. Marriott Woodhouse’s
“Query” is made of figures cut out of wood and
painted in the fashion of Noah’s Ark. It has claims
—legitimate claims—to be The Worst Woodenness
in Sydney. The Gallery lias obviously made a mis-
take in purchasing James 11. Jackson's picture of a
gild, painted like a miniature, in the midst of leaves
painted with a whitewash brush. A. Dattilo-Rnbbo
produces his usual assortment of patriotic blood.
His Gallipoli invention is conventional but pains-
taking. So is J. S. Watkins’s 100-guinea study of
alleged pathos. Two-thirds of Jas. A. Crisp’s “Three
Kookaburras” are all right. W. Lister Lister’s gums
are just gums ; and for those who want 300-guineas*
worth of gums they are exactly the timber required;
His beach studies are much more charming:
The pointillists, in the person Of Tempe Man-
ning and Grace 0, Smith, present their nleasies-
effects With brilliant green ladies and corpse-grev
females. The hues of the latter’s “Header” would
give a cat a bilious headache. The “Cootamundra
Wattle,” bought by the Gallery from A. E. Aldis,
would die of shame if grown on a tree. Two of
Gladys Lavcock’s “Three Sisters,” a miniature, are
exquisitely done. The third just happened. The best
of Maisie M. Edwards’s pastels is a striking por-
trait that lacks the peculiar subtlety of pastel work.
John R. A. Eldershaw proves, in his water-colors,
that J. J. Hilder is not dead, but merely imitating
himself. His “Flautist,” lacking drawing, is an
interesting “arrangement.”
The rest is silence. It is a pity it couldn’t be
also invisibility.
The revival of “Get-Rich-Quick Walling-
ford” at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
enabled Hale Hamilton, the original crook,
to prove himself temperamentally better
fitted for the great United States business
of bluff than Fred Niblo. Rascals and busi-
ness-men should be fat. There is a per-
suasiveness about Hale Hamilton that Niblo
lacked; and in.the directors’ meeting the
original Wallingford is much more convinc-
ing. Hamilton has been ill-served by the
Firm in being shown first in a series of
weak imitations of this deservedly success-
ful American business-play instead of in
the play itself. Myrtle Tannehill is the
heroine, and invests the part with intelli-
gence and charm. The Blackie Daw of
Maurice Dudley is intelligent, too; but it
lacks color. Donald Bowles provides quite
a different Eddie Lamb ; but, then, Dona hi
Bowles could be depended upon to provide
quite a different Hamlet or Ophelia. The
chief surprise, however, is the unexpected
emergence of Nancye Stewart as a delightful
exponent of low comedy. It is a relief, after


m
HENKES
SCHNAPPS
Holland's best production—an absolutely ideal tonio.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
m
THE LATEST BALLAD SUCCESS,
MY LITTLE RED ROSE
By the Composer ol “Little Grey Home in the West.”
In Keys for All Voices. * Of All lusicsellers.
CHAPPELL (Sb CO. LTD., The Auditorium, Melbourne.
z'
58
The "WARREGO” Shirt
Ideal for outdoor worKers.
In this latest Peapes production will be found
something newer, neater and better than any-
thing hitherto made for work-day wear. It is
strong, withstands wear and laundering and will
not easily soil. The pattern of the material is
indicated by illustration —neat, pin-head squares
close set, making a pleasing tone of Blue or
Buff. The soft collar is attached and buttons at
peaks. The pockets have pleat and buttons.
Ready to Wear, 6/6.
Please state your usual size of collar when
writing.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters.
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
seeing her so long in colorless straight parts
for which she is quite unsuited, to notice
how she revels in the part of the gum-
chewing waitress.
* :i: $ *
“Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson”
are in their last nights at Sydney Royal,
Season ends on Friday, September 15.
V 'C
“The Dancing Mistress” —otherwise
Maggie Dickinson —dances her last at Syd-
ney Majesty’s on Friday night. Dear old
“Florodora” will then be wheeled in smiling
in her chair.
Up at Sydney Tivoli, where you can learn
how to exhale the American language
through your nose in one lesson, the audi-
ences still clamor loudest for the good music
—-vocal and instrumental. Soprano Mar-
garet Jewell in particular halts the pro-
cession of turns while she pacifies her audi-
ence with encores, and Zona Trador, a
gentle violinist who arrived last week-end,
does almost as well. As for the rest, Clar-
ence Wilbur (tramp No. 782,973) is the
sort of performer who reminds you it is
getting late and that you’ve had a hard
day; and Louis London, who sings a sort
of song-hash, seems to have the largest voice
that has ever been kept alive in captivity.
The youthful Dick Dorothy Trio with their
neat team-dancing are still on the bill, and
continue one of its main supports.
:]; :!: * *
Sydney James and his Strollers advertise
their seventh gilded week at Sydney Palace.
These people have almost forgotten how to
stroll; the only exercise they get is when
they go and roll on their money.
*
The “feature” on Hoyt’s Sydney programme
this week is “The Mutiny of the Bounty,” a
realistic presentation of one of the most
stirring incidents in Australian history. A
Metro, five-reeler, “The Wall Between,” some
war pictures and a couple of spools of
laughter provide the other courses of the
feast. At the day sessions at Sydney Crystal
Palace Frederic Shipman is again display-
ing the elegance of Australian beauty-mer-
maid Annette Ivellerman in “Neptune’s
Daughtef.”
* * * *
One week of “The Girl on the Film,” at
Melbourne Majesty’s, was quite as well
worth having as a brief revival of any ordi-
nary musical comedy. The story of how Doro-
thy Brunton disguised herself as a boy in
order to capture a cinema actor is uncom-
mon, and the music is pretty, as a rule.
Especially are Dorothy’s song of The Mill in
the second act and the waltz; melody in the
third act notable causes for lamenting that
the orchestra is a trifle too strong for the
fragile voice. The most conspicuous change
from the previous production of this “Girl”
is the appearance of Connie Ediss in the part
that Florence Yie grappled with formerly.
There is not much in the part save grotesque
dressing, pronounced embonpoint, and vul-
garity, and Connie’s peevish bleat adds no
value to it. Workman, as a serio-comic hero,
resumes his job of trying to make Miss Brun-
ton’s charming infatuation seem reasonable.
Marie Eaton gives a forcible exaggeration of
a loud Italian lady in several fits of passion,
Frith wears a pair of pants with £3OOO sewn
into the seat thereof, and Field Fisher plays
the circus clown with marked success. Fisher
is not supposed to be a circus clown, but liis
costumes, his gambols, and his incredible
countenance amount to the same thing. Daisy
Yates is the tuneful streak of lissome grace
with whom Paul Plunket is associated as
fervent admirer. If Paul had more than one
sort of smile, and could sometimes keep his
front teeth out of the picture, his interviews
with the blonde angel would be more interest-
ing. But he’s a well-behaved young man,
anyhow. There are others, including .Tack
Hooker, who dances with Madge Elliot in a
pretty rustic ballet, and partners little Rita
Nugent in a quaint specialty. All these good
people will be occupied in making “The Girl
in the Taxi” go next Saturday.
Next Fridav (Bth) is the date of the
Melba matinee at Melbourne Majesty’s, and
The Bulletin promised not to say so any
more.
At Melbourne Royal, for one more week,
Frank Harvey will bundle his bride, Madge
Fabian, into the bone-shaking buggy of his
nearest neighbor and carry her off to his
trim-built shack, where she can never hope
to get milk with her tea. When the weary
lady talks wildly of escaping from her pre-
dicament he will bid her “listen to the
silence of the prairie,” which tells her that
she hasn’t Buckley’s chance. A few such
purely theatrical remarks in “The Land of
Promise” can be forgiven for the sake of the
good stuff in the humanly interesting play,
and as a relief from American machine-made
drama it is welcome. “Too Many Cooks”
will be staged on the 16th.
* * * :!=
“Peg o’ My Heart” has passed its 50th
performance at Melbourne King’s, and is now
in the Last Weeks period. Up to now Peg’s
taciturn brown dawg has never failed to
perpetrate his one bark at the right moment.
At Melbourne Tivoli the bill is as before,
but the principal turns are under marching
orders, and some new ones are hoped tor.
Among the many mild attractions that help
to fill in time the three step dancers are
about the mildest. As exponents of simul-
taneous movement they are not more excit-
ing than the wheels of a tricycle.
The Playhouse (Melbourne) gets to busi-
ness again on September 16. Ibsen’s “Hedda
Gabler” will be played four nights, and a
revival of “Quinneys” is to run for a week,
beginning September 23.
The Vic. Vocalists’ Society, which deserves
all the boost it can get in this connection,
has started a series of Saturdav Night Pops
at the Auditorium. Now that the Italians
have departed Melbourne can afford to pay-
further attention to the best of the musical
talent in its midst. Last Saturday a capital
vocal and instrumental concert had Walter
Kirby on top of a bill, which was calculated
to please everybody except the loftiest musi-
cal critic and the lowest type of Philistine.
Similar desirable concerts are held every
Saturday night in Sydney Town Hall, Phil
Newbury being the most consistent star.
“GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD ,”
AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Blackie Daw (Maurice Dudley) finds a
bool (Edwin Lester).
The shapely chorus continues to make some
amends for various shortcomings in “The
Follies of Pleasure” at Melbourne Princess’s.
The show is at its best when the girls are
on view; and when they are absent looking
for a fresh lot of clothes, the desultory gag-
ging of the principals only makes the heart
grow fonder. During the course of the even-
ing the damsels sing and dance very brightly
together, and several reveal their ability in
individual turns. Two of them are especi-
ally strong in burlesque humor, and another
warbles pathetic ballads so well that the
gallery becomes her devoted slave.
* sfc * *
“A Gilded Fool” and “Notorious Gal-
lagher” were the liveliest and longest items
at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, on Saturday. In the
first-named a wealthy young idiot squanders
dollars in a manner that shows blank irrever-
ence for the Amurkan deity. The inevitable
angel, however, appears towards the conclu-
sion and curbs the youth’s blasphemy before
it goes too far. The other thriller provides
a painful study of a half-witted slum product
who poses as a murderer to satisfy a weird
desire for fame. This unpleasant object is
presented with all the symptoms of paranoia
by a realistic actor called Will Nigh. This
week IToyt’s are unwinding “The Life
Romance of Adam Lindsay Gordon,” with
Hugh McCrae in the role of the poet.
* * * *
When the English visitor to St. Andrew’s,
nearing the town by train, was scared by a
splash of glass from the broken carriage
window, a Scotchman just picked up the golf
ball that had done the damage and remarked
pleasantly, “We’ll be gettin’ there the noo.”
Similarly, when the Adelaide dailies, report-
ing a bad bolt in King William-street, explain
that the horses had been startled by elephants
walking along North Terrace, the Adelaide
citizen just remarks, “Wirths’ Circus back
again,” and hastens down to Frome-road to
see the jolly show. The Royal has shunted
its Fox pictures on to the Town Hall, and
Julius Knight, with a strong co., is opening
in “Under Fire.” At the Tivoli Anderson’s
fine crowd is miles too good for the kind of
thing it is playing-—old “When London
Sleeps” at present. Wish Wynne is at the
Majestic; also Bates and Wade, balancers,
and the immensely popular Leonard Nelson.
At the King’s, Fuller has a mixed lot in a
confused riot of song and dance. It is a
kind of hash, with a bit of everything in it,
but the result is effective. The Belgian
Wonters is lecturing in his country’s cause,
combined musicians gave a big concert in aid
of the Alderman memorial fund, and Brans-
combe’s Dandies are exchanging characters,
which frivolity always means that their
season is nearing its end.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“/Esculapius”: Melbourne audiences have
been quick to learn the etiquette of grand
opera. On the opening night of the Gon-
salez season in Melbourne “Trovatore ’ was
staged. Next to me was a cove who con-
tinued to be disgusted with having wasted
his ’arf a dollar. And he couldn’t under-
stand the Dago. But “Ah! che la Morte”
fired his enthusiasm, and when I met him
at “Mignon” during the last week he knew
a lot of the stuff backwards, and could hiss
with the best of the dress-circlers at a chat-
terer. It’s catching.
“Eryander”: Noteworthy that “Trova-
tore” has not the tenor for its real hero.
Up till Rossini’s time the leading roles were
allotted —irrespective of dramatic fitness —
to the higher voices; but Rossini kicked. “A
tenor or an alto,” he said, “is all very well
for an elegant young spark of a lover, but
for a ruler, or a warrior, or even for a
ruffian, I want a man’s voice. Mozart wasn’t
such a fool as to give Don Giovanni to a
caterwauling tenor.” And yet Mozart had
intended to follow the usual practice; but,
realising that the forceful “bad man” of
the piece could not be adequately expressed
in terms of tenor, he made the Don a bari-
tone, and gave the tenor part to Ottavio,
who is dramatically a poor creature.
“Cazna” views it from the Goths’ gallery :
The dramatic art of grand opera makes me
wonder if music-lovers possess any sense of humor.
Grand opera is a form of drama, else it Would not be
produced on a stage or in costume. And song is
merely a louder and more emotional form of speech.
The use of speech is to convey information either to
another person, as in dialogue, or to the audience,
as in soliloquy. But in grand opera it is very rarely
that one character asks another a question and re-
ceives an answer. The tenor usually comes on to
the stage alone and soliloquises at length, melo-
diously, no doubt, but without the least pretence
that he or she is saying something to himself, un-
consciously speaking his thoughts aloud. Instead,
these private thoughts of the tenor are hurled at
the audience from the footlights. And when the
prima donna finds her emotion struggling for ex-
pression she distractedly waves the baritone or the
chorus off the premises in order that she may have
the full extent of the bare stage for the loud expres-
sion of her sentiments. When at last the two come
together, instead of conversing in song, both have the
bad manners to speak at once. This is called a
duet. Either they are both saying the same thing, in
which case there is no need for them to say it at all,
or they are simultaneously saying different things,
from which neither the audience nor themselves can
possibly get any information at all. At the end of
every act there is a trio, in which three badly-
brought-up people all shout different things at the
same moment. It reminds me of a Returned Soldiers’
Association meeting. But the crowning absurdity is
that while these three people are vainly trying simul-
taneously to express sentiments that are evidently
of importance to them, a fourth person, the orchestra,
is also trying, with 50 large mouths, to say some-
thing of even more importance. The orchestra is the
worst offender. Often one human voice has to com-
pete with 50 other musical sounds, and it is too
much to expect that even the best-behaved orchestra
will always allow one small voice to out-shout it. It
the voices are what the audience pays to hear they
ought to be heard; and a mandolin would provide
sufficient accompaniment. If the human voice is to
overcome the assorted noises produced by even the
tamest orchestras, the prima donna should be pro-
vided with a megaphone.
“Glen H.”: The Gonsalez Opera Co. left
Melbourne with an honorable, record. Booked
originally for eight weeks, the co.’s season
was extended to 10, and 18 of the 20 operas
promised were produced (“Ebrea” and
“Otello” were held over for the return sea-
son), each production was given on the date
for which it was announced, the syllabus
being printed a week, and, in some cases,
a fortnight ahead; and in no instance did
a singer fail to appear when promised. The
writer has not met a grand opera combina-
tion of similar calibre which suffered less
from relaxed throat, tantrums, tempera-
ments, malice, hatred and all unmauageable-
ness. It was a happy family and there is
no recorded instance of manager Alex.
Carroll having to sit on the chest of one
prima donna while a sister was removed to
her hotel in an ambulance.
“Sardonyx”: When in doubt play “Trova-
tore.” Decently produced, the venerable
opera is a sure draw, because the vividity of
Verdi’s melodic touch will always cover a
multitude of academic sins. It’s the average
opera-goer’s money that makes the show
possible at all, and the a.o.g. isn’t looking
for recondite harmonic delicacies; he likes
a good plain meal of melody.
“Theorbo”: “The Huguenots,” with which
Gonsalez wound up his Melbourne season,
was first produced there by Lyster, with
this cast: Valentine, Lucy Escott; Queen,
Rosalie Durand; Urbain, Georgia Hodson;
Raoul, Squires; St. Bris, Wharton; De
Nevers, F. Lyster; Marcel, Farquharson;
Huguenot Soldier, Trevor (afterwards Beau-
mont). Lyster’s whole company was in “The
Huguenots,” and gave it every night for a
month. No singing only three nights a week
then. But the voices were pretty well gone
when they got here—like Brooke’s. Lyster
first came to Sydney as a midshipman. He
heard Coppin sing “Billy Barlow” in a Dub-
lin theatre (whence Coppin ran away with
Mrs. Watkins Burroughs), and whem he
arrived in Sydney, in 1842, he found the
Artful Dodger still singing the old song.
“THE LAND OF PROMISE ,” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Frank Haney as
the farmer.
The lawyer.
“Fax”: There’s a passage in Bernard
Shaw’s “Pvgmalion” which sets one thinking.
Higgins, the professor of phonetics, who can
spot anv man’s nationality and place of resi-
dence by his' style and accent, remarks of
Doolittle the Dustman :
This chap has a certain natural gift of rhetoric.
Observe the rhythm of his native woodnotes wild.
“I’m willing to tell you I’m wanting to tell you.
....I’m waiting* to tell you.” Sentimental rhetoric.
That’s the Welsh strain in him. It also accounts for
his mendacity and dishonesty.
Died, at Dunedin, J. A. X. Riedle, mana-
ger of the Dresden (now Bristol) Piano Co.
for 25 years, and known to nearly all the
population of Poverty Point. His collection
of autographed portraits of notable people
was easily the finest in the Dominion, and
ranged from Queen Vie. to Little Gul.
Melbourne Scotch College has an ambiti-
ous dramatic club. By two recent Bendigo
performances of “What Happened to
Jones” £l3O was earned for the Red Cross,
and beside the £ s. d. the matter of mere
artistry is a thing of small moment. How-
ever, the Club aims high even as to artistry.
Remember that it was at the Grammar that
Oscar Asche was barred from the dramatic
club as being hopelessly and obviously
outclassed.
(Continued on page 35.)
A BALLADE OF REVIVALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Revivals are vot and Time’s a churl:
I sit in the stalls and watch the play;
The fiddlers scrape and the dancers twirl,
The bassoons grunt and the trombones brav;
And by my side is a plumper May
Than came with me to that pristine show;
The world is older and Youth’s grown grey—
Where are those legs of the Long Ago?
The comedy’s hair is out of curl,
The gags show signs of advanced decay,
Life seems no longer a giddy whirl,
And mirth and magic have had their day;
The mimes behave in the same old way,
The same old melodies ebb and flow,
But gone’s the gladness that once held sway—
Where are those legs of the Long Ago?
The rustic maid and the belted earl
Still in the meadows of Love make hay,
But this new heroine does not thirl
As years ago did the former fay.
The mincing hero I yearn to flay—
A sorry change from that old-time beau !
Anil where are those twinkling feet of clay?
Where are those legs of the Long Ago?
L’envoi.
Prince, these revivals I beg you stay!
Chills through the whiskers of eld they blow,
And pleasant memories basely slay.
Where are those legs oj the Long Ago?
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


A KhaKi Air Cushion
for 7|6
Made of the best-quality waterproof
Khaki cloth, size 18 x 12 inches, as
shown in illustration, complete with
envelope which with folded cushion
inside measures only 7x4 inches, and
will fit easily into coat pocket. Every
cushion is tested. Invaluable to
soldiers and travellers ... .... 7/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
j*>
/
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
—SYDNEY—
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Strpi’LY—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
The CHIAST OLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants, in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Cem Merchant, Proprietor.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
. “Sr”: Billjim takes it as it comes all
light. Three of ’em were playing nap in
between a shelling. “I’ll give three a go,”
said one. “You’ll make me go four,” said
the second. The third chipped in: “I’ll go
the lot.” Just as he was about to play a
shell came along and walloped him to
pieces. The “four” player looked over at
the cards that his late pal had dropped and
remarked: “Strike me, he would have got
cm, too!”
SO CHEERING
HE: “I’d like to be able to run down to the
seaside for a few days while you’re
there.”
SHE: “Oh you wouldn’t enjoy yourself a bit
just think how jealous you are!”
“Aladal”: We had been living in our
clothes for three weeks, and most of the
time it had been raining. This particular
morning we had lined up and the instruction
officer had looked us over and said, “I want
four men for a special purpose, so if there
are any here who have held responsible posi-
tions of any kind, take three paces forward.”
There were men in the bunch who came
well up to the specifications; but at that
stage you could not have got them to own
up to it under an anesthetic. However,
one scarecrow did step out. We all looked
pretty rough, but this bird was tough enough
to have a special gaol built for him. He
was well out of his offside boot, the little
cap he wore on top of a bullet-proof ginger
head looked like a piece of waste the engine-
driver had finished with, and any man who
could swear that his upper garment was a
shirt had never read the Oaths Act. The
officer looked him over and said, “Well, what
responsible position have you ever held ?”
The bird never batted an eye as he
answered gravely: “I was flag-wagger for a
traction engine for six months, sir.”
A pious maker of wowser beer tried to
turn bis religious feelings into revenue the
other day in Sydney. He wanted the law to
recover £lOOO for him from the Agricultural
Society of N. S. Wales. The case turned
on the Society’s habit of not closing up its
annual Easter Show on Good Friday. Plain-
tiff had leased a stall on the showground to
exhibit his goods, but on the day made
sacred to the currant bun he decorated
the leasehold with black hangings, suspended
a Biblical picture over the raspberry syrup,
and went away to fast and pray. On return-
ing next morning to. remove the trappings of
woe and do business as usual he found that
the Society had removed the drapery and
the illustration, possessed itself of the lemon
squash and turned him off the selection. And
being a good Christian he was consumed
with wrath and declined to either turn his
cheek to the smiter or suffer in silence perse-
cution by the children of evil. Instead, he
called upon counsel to get adequate recom-
pense for outraged feelings and the ginger-
beer. The hearing of the case, which was
substantially a claim for damages for tres-
pass, ran over a couple of days, and after
Chief Justice Cullen had made some observa-
tions about ostentatious piety the jury said
the Society was not guilty. Whereupon
Costs sniggered respectfully, the hopes of the
wowserous were made into mincemeat, and
the right of the agriculturist to ruminate
with his bun over the shorthorn bull on Good
Friday was established.
* * * *
The inconvenience of being Smith was
illustrated in the Perth Supreme Court
recently when W.H. of that name was asked
to part up £450 for six years’ maintenance
of his two sons. The complainant’s tale
was that in 1909 W.H. called on her in
Perth and arranged that she should take
temporary charge of his two boys, aged 11
years and seven. Smith then faded away
into the outlying goldfields, and whether he
found gold or not Mrs. Wilson’s proposition
in Perth showed never a color. A search
of the records revealing W. 11. Smith as the
owner of a mining lease at Burtville (the
most advanced auriferous outpost in W.A.),
Smith was writted and dragged 600 miles
to Perth. Meeting the man in court, the lady
straightway screeched that he was not her
William Henry. All the ingenuity that
dwells under a bleached horse’s tail couldn’t
keep the case going after that; and when
William Henry 11. had proved that he was
unmarried and childless there was nothing
left for ’Sonah to do but to scratch his wig
and say that he was dashed.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Another old Sydney landmark
is. doomed. The building known as The
Girls’ High School, in Castlereagh-street, is
to be demolished. It dates back to the
Macquarie era, was originally built for
school purposes, but has been
used for many things. In it
Chief Justice Forbes opened the
first Supreme Court under the
new Charter of Justice: and
here Father Therry celebrated
mass while “old St. Mary’s”
was being erected. The ground
originally belonged to Thomas
Rose, who kept the Rose and
Crown Inn, where now the
Daily Telegraph office stands.
Macquarie gave him country
lands in exchange. For many
years past the old building has
gone back to its original pur-
pose ; but a hard-up Govern-
ment sees a chance to raise a
few pounds by a sale, and the girls are to be
moved on to Fort-street.
* * * *
Private Billjim on leave in England
seems to be in almost as much danger as he
would be if he stayed in the trenches. It
was cabled a day or two ago that a woman,
arrested in Horseferry-road—the Wild West
of London—had been brought up at
Westminster on the dragnet charge of
disorderly conduct. She was, it seems,
engaged to be married to a soldier
from Tasmania after a three-days’
acquaintance. False declarations had been
made to the registrar, and the beak was in-
formed that such marriages were frequently
arranged with the object of getting lonely,
loving old Billjim’s allotment-money—a
woman companion of the accused had engi-
neered several of them. Flossie, who had
twice before been convicted as a disorderly
person, was let loose on finding sureties for
her good behavior. But there is no surety
that her lady-friend won’t continue to sive
Bill the Glad Eye.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Full Court has decided, on an
appeal by a dentist, that a professional man
has no right to spread the attractions of his
much-advertised name over business he can-
not attend to personally. The case came
before the Dental Board, when the dentist
concerned, who ran a business in Adelaide,
Broken Hill and elsewhere, was called upon
to explain why his name should not be struck
from the register for “infamous conduct in a
BIBLICAL.
LUGUBRIOUS TRAVELLER (handed a ‘home-made”): “I arst fer bread, mum, an' yer
give me a stone.”
professional sense.” The Law did not allege
that the man who actually did the work was
but it took the point, which the
h ll h Court endorsed, that the conduct of a
man who “allowed his name to be used in
connection with a practice over which he
admittedly exercised not the slightest super-
vision, and who put his name in various
places, representing that he was practising
there, while he hardly ever visited such
places,” was disgraceful. It is an eminently
sensible judgment; and it might be extended
to solicitors who run branch offices and some
lazy counsel who rush into court and put
before ’Sonah the opinions, etc., which they
are_ handed ready-made by solicitors or a
junior wig.
Buoy': Although the lifebelt has been
comforting sea travellers for 50 years, it
has taken the present submarine campaign
to show that the principle of the thing is
wrong. The Titanic disaster gave the
British Board of Trade its first shock, and
the murdering submarines have gone on
providing demonstrations. For years the
Board prescribed belts to be worn round the
waist. Later the jacket was introduced.
It has now been found that while the
approved type of jacket is quite sufficient
to float a person for a long period, it is too
fond of turning him either upside down or
on Ins face. Properly secured it is all right •
but when a torpedo gets home there isn’t
always time to make a careful life-saving
toilet. So many bodies have been re-
covered, apparently drowned while float-
lng, that the Board has made radical
changes in the rules. Stringent tests are
now demanded, and besides possessing
buoyancy an approved jacket must be easy
to put. on and capable of floating an
unconscious person head out of water. Life-
jacket makers are now evolving new types
for which these essentials are claimed. So
far most of them. favor a sort of square
float, through which the passenger sticks
liis head. Another matter which is worry-
ing the Lnglisli authorities is the equipment
of lifeboats. The main problem is to locate
the boats after the wreck. Experiments
are being made with kites, the idea being
to equip each boat with one. Some inventors
add a luminous tail for night signalling.
Melbourne has been watching a grim
comedy called “The Corpse that Took the
Wrong Turning.” By some mischance a
number of Methody cadavers have been
planted in the Church of England portion of
the Healesvilie cemetery, and it is a toss up
whether the Methodists are most annoyed at
the dear departed of their denomination being
buried in that part of God’s acre reserved for
Anglicans, or the Anglicans at the notion of
their late lamented cobbers being separated
from Dissenters by only a few feet of earth
and a couple of boards. Anyway, both de-
nominations have rushed Chief Secretary
ivicLeod with a request that he should Do
Something, and that solemn Scotchbyterian
is giving the matter his earnest consideration.
The Lord knows what can be done; but some-
body might try holding an Anglican revival
campaign to see' if he can’t convert the
Methodist heathen who have been misplaced.
SO DIFFERENT.
WIFE: “Has he a comfortable income?”
HUBBY : “Large, but not comfortable. His
wife knows exactly how much it is.”
JOY IN BERLIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The population of Berlin hails Field-Marshal von
Hindenburg as its deliverer. The city is lx flagged,
and the hero’s portrait is displayed in the shop
windows, garlanded and illuminated.— Cable.
Let us in joy endeavor to forget
The absence of the sausage from the plate.
Ilindenburg rules; no shade of pale regret
May yet diminish our proud hymn of hate.
Roumania bangs us and the Greek may follow —
We had no breakfast, but we don’t feel hollow.
Russia with smashing blows has made us wince,
England and France destroy us in the West;
Our Prussian Guard to-day is mostly mince,
But get the happy cheering off our chest.
Don’t worry over bashes, blows and losses;
Be glad, for Hindenburg the ruin bosses.
Austria wobbles swiftly to her end,
Turkey awaits the final knock-out blow ;
We haven’t got a single blooming friend
Who’s not about three-quarters of a foe.
But cheer for Hindenburg and keep on fighting.
Cable it far —the prospect is inviting.
Inviting what? Well, that we hardly know.
The luck may turn, for all it looks so black.
This pleasant war has months and months to go
And Falkenhayn at least has got the sack.
Lord! Fancy if the Teuton proved a winner !
We should have dinner, dinner, dinner, DINNER!
N.S.W.
VON FAKENHOPE.


OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment, you take it—at any
hour —and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away;
you will be yourself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—in bottles of two sizes, l/U and
1/9. . [2
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon 2/6
a la carte luncheon, from 1/6
Table d’hote dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
“Nil”; Touching this soldier’s word
“dinkum.” It may not be any use saying
anything, because when once the avalanche of
Public Opinion breaks loose one is apt to be
crunched if one gets in the way. But here
goes. “Dinkum” does not mean good, nor
honest, nor correct, nor anything of that sort.
It is an abbreviation of the blackfellows’
“fair dinkum,” i.e., “fair drinking.” Mrs. Gamp
said the.same thing to Betsy Prig long ago.
In fact, before Binghi could speak even that
much English. In time Black Brother got
into the way of using this metaphor when lie
thought anyone was not acting fairly to him
in any way. Later it was used by White
Cousin to imply that all was fair and above-
board. “Yes, it is ! Fair dinkum !” No one
at that time thought of saying anything was
a “fair dinkum” thing. It was the city bloke
who picked it up and left out the “fair” and
misused the “dinkum” to mean genuine,
proper or right.
“De Oriel” : One of the oldest timepieces
in the Speck is the big Dutch clock mounted
on the town hall tower in Port Arthur.
Long before the traveller reaches the village
the gold-colyred hands and numerals on the
large black face are visible —showing the
correct time, too. Originally installed in the
penitentiary, many poor devils watched the
black face and waited for the hour when
their bangles and legirons would be ham-
mered on and the day’s slavery begin. To
wind it the caretaker ascends a high spiral
staircase and manipulates the two long
chains which hang from the clock and sup-
port balances several hundred pounds in
weight. The Hobart bumbles once attempted
to- secure this relic, but were savagely
repulsed by the local inhabitants, who
treasure their old and useful possession.
* » * *
“The Dentist” : While I filled his tooth I
had to listen to his views on the war. “Con-
scription? What rot! There’s no need for
it. Why, there’s not 10.000 dead yet!”
Then, in the next breath, at a slight prick
of his gum, “My God, you’re half-killing
me!”
NEAR AND YET SO FAR.
“Wish me hide, hid. I've joined the 18th
Battalion.”
“Oh, how splendid! Billy’s in the 17th,
and you’ll he nice company for each
other.”
WAR-TIME DIGNITY.—THE GOALIE.
To secure efficiency in bunkering transports the Navy Department has organised a Coaling Battalion
officered by stevedores and union officials. —Press it m.
An old union row which had been rever-
berating before N. S. Wales judges for
many months subsided in the Full Court last
week, the last faint sound being something
about Costs. The row started when the Gas
Employees’ Union said that all men who
toiled at the gasworks must join up, whether
they belonged to other unions or not. Being
a loud, powerful body the Union had its
way; but one day it struck a snag. This
was a unionist who said the Amalgamated
Engineers was good enough for him. So he
lost his job. Then he sued the and
its secretary for damages, and a lower Court
granted him some. But when the Full Court
had considered the award giving absolute
preference to the Gas Employees’ Union it
found no evidence that the Union secretory
had done any more than call upon the Gas
Co. to fulfil a lawful condition. Therefore the
verdict was upset; and nothing remains of
the row but irritation and Costs. One
humorous aspect of the thing is that the
Amalgamated Engineers was the body that
started the disturbance by organising a cam-
paign to force members of existing Aus-
tralian engineers’ unions into its ranks. The
Amalgamated is an organisation with head
offices in Britain; and it invited the kicks
of strong Australian bodies when it tried
that little game.
“Rag” • Seeing that dysentery still plays
up with Billjim, especially in Egypt, despite
the orthodox methods of treatment, it would
be worth while investigat-
ng the boiled betel-nut
decoction, used first, I
believe, by the. Yule
Island missionaries of
Papua. That territory is
frequently visited by epi-
demics of dysentery of a
most mal'gnant type; no
less than 255 boys of a
total of 600 died inside
five months from this
scourge at Lakekamu
goldfield in 1911. The
earnest quest for a remedy
has given us this. The
kernels of yellow-ripe
betel-nut are boiled for
half an hour —a pint of
water per pint .of nuts.
The liquor is then
strained through fine
muslin and bottled. A
teaspoonful every four
hours is the prescribed dose. The re-
commendation of this specific by the experi-
enced planters and prospectors of Papua
should, at any rate, induce the army medi-
cal authorities to experiment with it. Plenty
of betel-nuts are procurable from India or
Malay Straits.
“Quill”: By filling in Farm Cove with
mud and rocks, the spoil from the Sydney
underground railway, the State Government
and City Council of Sydney would have a
chance to enter upon several enterprises at
nominal cost. Wharves could be run out
and along the edge of the resumed area, and
tanneries, cool stores, fish-curing works,
manure depots and markets established on
the vacant spaces. If the thing were planned
properly a circular course might also be pro-
vided for pony racing. Being close to deep
water the industries would thrive through
ON THE COAST—A SIGNAL STATION.
the ease with which goods could be
handled and the profits could be
devoted to reducing taxation —or mak-
ing provision for more officials. For
these reasons I trust that every encourage-
ment will be given to the proposal of the
Government with regard to the disposal of
this waste rock. Any such objection as that
the buildings would prejudice the Botanic
Gardens is, of course, absurd. I have myself
proved that flowers will .stow just as well
alongside a glue-works as by a harbor.
A mania for 'cutting into the park lands
has bitten Sydney. At present the Council
is engaged in biting a slice off the southern
portion of Hyde Park. This robbery has the
justification that it falls into line with the
scheme for a fine avenue running from the
Town Hall along a broadened Park-street
and a reconstructed William-street. But,
glorying in the noble job of park-stealing, the
larcenous Bumbles are considering a feather-
headed idea of extending Market-street
through the northern section of the park to
College-street—a splendid scheme which
would shorten a journey by St. James’s-road
by fully 20 yards and cut a fairly-decent
park into two indecent fragments.
“0.G.” : Maoriland’s Chief Justice was on
circuit the other day handing out law and
cursing beer as usual; and, of course, he was
accompanied by his lady, who, while Robert
listened wearily to the local attorney, gave
lectures to women on “social evils.” Natu-
rally they everywhere stayed at the best hotel,
and the boss lady-wowser came round and
had a chat and a groan. At Palmerston
North a faded old girl stood timidly in the
pub hallway, and when the porter appeared
whispered confidentially, “Lady Stout,
please.” “Yes, mum. This way, mum,” said
the bag-smasher; and before she knew what
had happened she was in an obscure room
holding a small glass.
* * * *
“Uckle”: The bullock team can now truly
address the train as a brother. There is little
or no ballast on some of the N. S. Wales
Western branch lines—the earth is-scooped
up and the sleepers dropped in—and as we
have had nearly 2ft. of rain on the Western
slopes and in the Central West this winter
the mud under the rails is in spots just plain
muck. The other day the Canowindra train
couldn’t get through to Cowra. It was bogged !
On other lines muck can be seen squirting out
on each side as the train crawls along. Quick
construction without ballast may save
money; but the dust in summer time and the
mullock flying up in the winter spoils the
view from the carriage window.
* * * *
Hugh McCrae hangs a garland round a
brother’s memory : —•
There died in France a .few weeks ago a boy I
hardly knew; and yet he was my brother. After 10
years of almost complete separation I can only re-
member him as a nursery callaxt clad in the epicene
clothes of his age, and seldom without his father’s
fingers intertwined with his own. So he remains to
me still the little brother; and even as I think of
him, now in Pozieres, he has a child's figure, a child’s
eyes and a child’s small, sensitive hand — a boy too
bright, too brave and beautiful to ever miss the road
to Heaven.
With our father and mother yet alive, it would
appear as though the family were going to die back-
ward, the youngest falling first; but where all love
(and are loved) the blow is equally fearful, no
matter on which of us it may descend. I am content
to believe that God had spelled it in stars across the
sky even before the boy was born.
His life ended midway of the twenties; but, for
me, linking up the years like a broken chain of
flowers, so many buds are missing, they scarcely run
to 10. At home last night I encountered through the
dim flow from the lamp on the table the grown-up
features of the brother who had very nearly been a
stranger to me. It was a dark, uncolored picture
with an appearance of 'moving shadows about the
face which gave it tremendous vitality, and in it I
could read his strength like a separate visible crea-
tion. He had belief, where I can only hope re-
motely; his w T as a life of deeds well done, mine
remains one only of intentions. He has died with all
his goodness fast within him, a great desire realised.
Not waiting for Death, he went himself to Death.
And it would be wicked to cry him back into a spoil-
ing world where he has lived so innocently.
Grouped about my brother’s picture are five or
seven others ; portraits of ancestors with politic fore-
heads ; masterly men. And these high Scotch
esquires, imprisoned in their frames, have shortened
their glance of loftiness before the valorous gaze of
a child, who, following the Great Exemplar, suffered
that we all might be saved.
OUT OF BUSINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a widow, fifty-two,
And rather tall and thin ;
She'd buried husbands —well, a few ;
The last of them was Wynne.
The first was Thompson. When he died
M‘Cartney made the dame his bride.
Then came poor Stephens. He remained
This vale of tears upon
Two years, and then the spirit waned—
A puff and he was gone.
The widow some time after wed
With Henderson. He, too, is dead.
I spoke to her the other night
(She’s rich if rather plain) ;
I said that presently she might
Be moved to wed again.
“In truth,” she said, “I’m much admired.
But not again. I have retired.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


2. Newspapers swallowed
hiiyi whole and moving
pictures were “taken of the:- y
Outfit on the Job.
l. Once upon a time there
was a bloke called Billy
who went to London to put
things right with his little
How*to=do-it Balloon.
A, At
ences, etc., the
Balloon was the
Goods..
3. The Duchesses decided
ihe was It, and admired the (
Modest Demeanor of the
Balloon.
5. After a whMe
all the Best People,
sorted him out as
the Saviour of the
Empiah. Royalty
spoke of the Balloon i
With Bated'Breath..'
, 7. The Other Blokes were
waiting for him—and the
Balloon-
\6. Having shown,
S'them the Way to,'
Do It he tore
himself away to-
get Busy on His,
<Ovvn Mob.
8. They led him and the
Balloon to a Certain Spot
and had a long talk. Then
'Billy came out and Delivered
9 Weighty Utterance.
9, At the conclusion of
Jhe Remarks the Deep
Silence was broken—
10. By a Loud Report.
“BILLY, BILLY BUST!"


HEL Kpo K.OO bURRA. Dots Ko I
H4sS fNO WORK. TO DO, \
■p>|»S »S A To LURIA |
C ATCM A Sin A,
A r»o wm&is HE'S Chewed thaJSNakk
lIS HALF,
HE. STS UPoH A FENCE. TO /
LAUCHS BECAUSE HE MAM 'g|j
LAISOR IN THE. HE_AT , <
PART OP AH APPO"STE C> FLAN
'"PHAT UP WORHS TO E_<*vr.»
/C\NO SO AtCORDIMC to HI'S TRUL-EL
He. LAUCHS LIKE at THE! Fool.
H-j £ Laughs aloud> that subtle e>ir? d >
From up on HIGH,
ro O»IPEPS LOOK. AB&ORO
“Jo HIS DE-PUSiVEL EYE.
TpnE.ir. ahticS up and down the. Earth,
£T x c ITL TH$ MOST TRtME NO OU S I'M |RTH .
LAUCHSj EoR WELUI™ HE IANovN S
■* ' -That imam
W ORK AMO Fight AMD Ll£,
A,* Love awo hate beneath the ban
Op labor tiuu he. c?ic .
He. Roar s vn;ith uauCHTJR at the
Jok.E.
XHAT CHAN'S A SLAVE ©*nE.A.THTH£
T4K6A,
rphL l,v£S E
HE Has no w'OTRX to ° *
K£ LEAVES To ANT^
AND TSEE*
A ~ D T Th.(;hH.s TcoßhFoJlha^t,
25.0 0.«.» T*- 0«" " •
H£ UAUCHS LIKE HStt AT TOO.
AM O * si
N.L.


Moll|
9NIAVH
x\
xeveß
For an
Jdeal Shave
/r* zu
| IN AUSTRALIA *]
3
'*r
©
SKSsS-SgS
Wmt
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&WHITTY
yxx /? *
m
4/1
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(aILBEY’S
PRY (aIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Six of the Lord brothers, of Taranaki
(M.L.), have joined the colors. The men
who are staying at home have something to
thank the Lord for.
The late Henry Parkes had a 640-acre
section of land on the Blue Mountains, which
he named Faulconbridge, after his mother;
but though he built on it and improved it he
was not able to hold possession. It came
into the hands of the late George Wigram
Allen, the trustees of whose estate have now
given 200 acres of it as a free public park.
The residences known as Clarindarnby
(Parkes’s first wife was Clarinda) and
Stoneleigh (where Parkes came from in
Warwickshire), on the same selection, are
under offer, and are likely to be acquired by
the Government as homes for convalescent
soldiers. Many important political gather-
ings were held in those houses; and there
are two trees, planted by King Geo. and late
brother Clarence, who spent a day or two at
Clarindarnby. In a little cemetery in a gully
close by lie the remains of Henry Parkes
and some members of his family.
HIS BIT.
SALERGIBL: “Forward, please, and give the
countersign.”
Now that he’s lost his job, was Con-
stantine really King of Greece or merely
Germany’s head waiter?
There was a characteristic South Aus-
tralian touch about the opening of an
enlarged drapery-shop in Adelaide. Charles
Moore, the proprietor, has taken a neglected
Victoria Square corner and frontage, in-
stead of crowding into a narrow street like
most of his rivals, and has put up the most
palatial thing of its kind to be seen locally.
At the thronged tea-drinking opening he
explained that, 35 years ago, coming as a
poor lad from Ireland, he had selected
Adelaide simply because he heard that it
was a City of Churches, and that a band
was forbidden to play in the parks on Sun-
day. His ideas had never changed. And
then Mr. Moore formally dedicated his pal-
ace of chiffons and the marked-down three-
and-elevenpenny hat —to the Almighty!
Henry F. AVigram, of the Maoriland
House of Lords, has turned out “The Story
of Christchurch,”
which reveals
James E. Fitzger-
ald as a champion
“first.” Fitzgerald
was in the first of
the four ships to
arrive in Lyttelton
and was the first
ashore. He became
the first editor of
the first newspaper
in Canterbury and
the oldest daily in
the Dominion, the
Lyttelton Times.
lie was the first
Superintendent of
the Provincial Gov-
ernment, and then
became first Pre-
mier of the whole
country. Never in
his life was he an
“also ran.”
WILLIAM CLIF-
FORD, late of
Tasmania, now
entitled to a seat
in the British
House of Lords.
If ever a man had rotten political luck it
is Daniel McNamara. When Tummas Bent
gave up being Premier of Victoria,
McNamara contested the Brighton seat for
Labor. Three went to the poll and the
other two fought it out, while Mac lost his
deposit. Later he stood for Warrenheip,
but nothing pleasant happened to him. Now
the Qualifications Committee has bumped
him out of his newly-won seat in the Leg.
Council because the unencumbered rating
of his propputy fell 2d. or so below the pre-
scribed minimum of £5O. His deposition
draws attention to the shameful nature of
the Council’s constitution. It is a prepos-
terous thing that in this day and generation
the qualifications of a Parliamentary candi-
date should turn on the value of the house
he occupies.
Private Douglas Grant, who left the
other day to take a hand in the argument in
•France, is a genuine Australian, despite his
Scotch name. He is a full-blooded Binghi,
picked up as a two-year-old in N. Queens-
land 30 years ago by Robert Grant, chief
taxidermist at Sydney Museum. Black
Brother had been having- an inter-tribal
scrap, and the kiddy was the only survivor
of his family. Grant adopted him, taught
him to wear kilts, to play the bagpipes,
even to recite Burns’s poems. The young-
ster learnt other things also, and for 10
years was a draftsman at Mort’s Dock.
Sydney, but was latterly wool-classing at
White Bros.’ Belltrees, near Scone
(N.S.W.). After he had got into khaki a
regulation blocked him at the last moment
from sailing with his battalion; but he
.managed to get exemption, and has now
gone with reinforcements.
Tom Gepp, Adelaide’s P.M., dead after a
long illness, was the ideal magistrate—bluff,
independent and standing no nonsense. He
was under Judge Stow as a youth, but prac-
tised alone for 30 years before succeeding
James Gordon in the Adelaide court. He
showed knowledge of both law and human
nature for four years, and then a lingering
illness struck him down. He w r as 64, but
didn’t look it. Everybody called him “Tom”;
but nobody took any other liberty with him.
Four times “Puss” Catani, the 25-year-
old son of Chief Engineer Catani, of the
Vic. Public Works Dept., dodged death.
He was .on. board the transport Southland
when she was torpedoed; he was in charge
of a machine-gun at Gallipoli when two of
the crew were killed and two severely
wounded, he himself being buried in earth
and debris, and when extricated could
neither speak nor hear for two days; after
Gallipoli he was on H.M.S. Russell, and
was no sooner away than she was mined;
and when he was voyaging from Egypt to
Marseilles a cargo steamer in front and a
large empty ship behind were torpedoed and
sunk. And now he has been killed in
France. At Melbourne Grammar “Puss’
was a mighty athlete; later he studied agri-
culture at Dookie, and was on his own farm
when the War gong called the fine fellow to
his larger duty.
Ploughed his last furrow in the Speck,
William Hollett, who landed there when he
was 18, and won champion ploughing matches
in the northern districts for 50-odd years.
One night in the long ago William drifted
into the Snake Banks Hotel for a Snake or
something and found the inhabitants all
trussed up waiting for him. Bushrangers
Cash and Cavendish had called in during
the day and left them tied up to pray until
the next visitor came along. So William
undid the knots and they all had a Snake
together.
Something happened to the Harper clan of
Christchurch (M.L.) recently, when brothers
Gordon and Ilobin each Won a D.C.M. The
Martyns, of Armidale (N.S.W.), have had
a similar cheer-up, Max earning the Mili-
tary Cross and his brother the D.S.O. and
the French War Cross,
Capt. Phillips, skipper of the Maktrra, has
been 24 years working his passage between
Sydney and Vancouver. His next voyage
will be No. 112, and when he ties Up at the
Union Co.’s wharf he Will have ticked off
2,000,000 miles.
“Chasuble” : De Salis has been appointed
English Plenipotentiary to the Vatican. The
De Salis tribe emerged from Como, Italy,
long ago and settled in Switzerland. From
there a De Salis was sent as Ambassador to
Queen Anne, in England. His son Jerome
became naturalised, founding the English
branch, and marrying a daughter of Vis-
count Fane. Since then the English De
Salises have been conspicuous in church,
navy and army. The headquarters are in
Ireland. The wife of the one now sent
to Home is a Belgian, Princess de Chimay.
We bad another of them for many years in
the N.S.W. Leg. Council.
When William Thomas Grossmith passed
out at Olinda (Vic.) the other day, comedian
George Grossmith lost an 87-year-old cousin.
William Thomas used to be chief victualling
officer for the P. & O. co. and was stationed
at Cairo, Constantinople, Marseilles and
Paris. He superintended the arrangements
for the historic feed given on the opening of
the Suez Canal.
“Gold Stick”: Some kings have collected
pretty bad references from the people who
knew them best. Bismarck, who was Some-
thing of a spy himself, is credited with the
judgment: “The Hapsburgs at bottom are
only a family of police spies who made their
fortune by confiscations.” But I wish the
summing-up hadn’t been buried so deep in
the peaceful Victorian age when the world
used to sentimentalise over old Francis
Joseph’s birthday. In those times the
British press used to tremblingly speculate
as to when the Dear Old Gentleman of
Austria would die. Nowadays it wonders
savagely how much longer the Old Scoundrel
will live.
One Bill Langdon. who is about to keep
up the dignity of the mayoral office of Fitz-
roy, did one noble deed before he sank into
the springs of the big chair on the dais.
He waved away the corded silk evening-
gown. the lace cuffs, the rabbit-skins, the
dog-chain and the fancy headgear of the
mayoral costume, and faced his makers like
a man. Melbourne’s other 20 metropolitan
boss-bumbles, however, are still mostly
mingling their whiskers with the municipal
moths in the fur-collars of office.
There is a new book of verse from S. Aus.,
and some of it not bad verse either. Tom
Black, the writer, was full of tender senti-
ment —perhaps still is. Twenty-five years
ago, when the Broken Hill silverfield was at
its noisiest and grimiest, he used to wander
in to a little hessian-lined news-
paper office from his navvying
job and recite in a queer sing-
song either his latest verse to
the glory of his one and only
love, Boston Bay, or his latest
epitaph. Boston Bay was near
Pt. Lincoln, and the longer this
remarkable navvy was away
from it the more like Paradise
it grew. Apparently in his old
age Tom has got back to his
birthplace; and in the right
order of things his book of verse has “Boston
Bay” on the title-page.
Anglicans at Wangaratta (Vic.) claim a
record for their local Synod, which met
recently. In its 32 clerical and 37 lay
members—almost all over military age—-
there are a V.C., a D.S.O. and a C.M.G..
all won in the present war. Parson Wray
got the C.M.G. and Colonel Scott the D.S.O.
in Gallipoli; and they are still taking a hand
in the disturbance. But Captain Tubb,
V.C., having been invalided from Anzac,
was able to answer the Synod roll call.
“D.F.”: How full of snobs alleged demo-
cracies are! As plain Bill Clifford a citizen
lived in and round about Hobart for 25
years and nobody bothered about him. He
was commonly regarded as harmless and
slightly eccentric, and the only way he could
get into the limelight at all was by standing
for Parliament. He succeeded so badly that
he lost his £25 deposit. Bht when a London
cablegram announced that he was Baroii
Clifford of Chud-
leigh und h
Count of the
il o 1 y Roman
Empire, with hri
estate in Devon,
he woke to find
himself s u f-
i-ounded by h
host of staunch
friends who
formed a com-
mittee to enter-
tain him and
made speeches
about the ad-
miration they
had always felt
for him but had
dissembled all
those years.
Let’s hope the
Salon has ;1
sense of humor.
ARTIST
LOUIS
MeCUBBIN
and his sketch-
book depart for
the Front.
Dead at 59, genial Frank Connor,
Westralian M.L.C. A gun accident did it
and the end was sudden. Connor was a
white-haired bhoy who came in to Aus-
tralia 31 years ago and joined D. J. Doherty,
a former schoolmate. They went to Kim-
berley and started storekeeping. Later on
they took up immense pastoral areas and
began horse-breeding for the Indian market.
This was a failure, but the subsequent rais-
ing of cattle ahd the creation bf a big meat
market oh the Westralian goldfields made
them rich. Connor and Doherty sat in the
Assembly fbr some years; then Doherty
resigned his seat, visited England and died.
Connor also gave up politics for a time, but
subsequently became one of the Nor’-West
members in the Council.
Captain Arthur Kennedy, killed the other
day iii France, was a well-known figure id
the Vie. Western District until a few years
ago. When he left Colac (Possmoyne was
his ranch there) he went to Dandenong and
took over Oakwood Pauli from Major George
Steward, who for years has farmed enthusi-
astically when not chained to his job of
official secretary to the G.-G. and Executive
Council. When Kennedy bought the Dan-
denong place Steward moved liis sheep, cows
and pumpkins to Wheeler’s Hill, where he
has Brandon Park and a choice collection of
modern farm-accessories. Kennedy called
himself a farmer, but he was a sport as well
and very handy with the cheque-book when
a little something was needed to keep the
old club on its feet—-any old club, so long as
it did something in the open air.
BRUCE SMITH, M.H.R.
FAREWELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Good-bye, old chum, a last good-bye,
For we have word to up and go;
We fought together, you and I,
And, Lord, it was a lovely show!
We took our gruel with the best,
But chucking it is hard to bear,
And I could envy you your rest
Under your little cross up there. *
What did we gain the long months through,
For such a price as you have paid,
And thousands more who fell like you,
The gallant boys who came and stayed ?
Not much, perhaps, in guns or ground,
But just the sort of name that clings,
For “Anzac,” all the world around,
Stands for a lot of glorious things.
You helped to make it, though your breath
fs still for ever, and your fame
Shall speak of high contempt of death
To those who never heard your name.
Good-bye, but while the Turkish shells
Fall harmless on our vacant lines,
Above this hard-won hill of hells
For me a crimson glory shines !
EGYPT.
J. W. WALLACE.
CAREERS.
(Dedicated in W.M.H.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The his-sing rocket cleaves the night;
Heavenward it soars and then explodes,
Strewing a pinch of stars that light
The upturned eyes of men and toads.
The false stars die —and that is all!
At falling sticks no child will stare.
When next the watchers laugh and call,
Another rocket’s in the air.
N.S.W.
FIREWORKER.


liiPaiiSiiliS
'
I,
pir-
■
-
.
m
.
,::i “ ;
****&?.
■t
m >
- .' . V- «
■t
-£& v:
' ■ -
' '' ’ 1
.
MB
. ■
-
v ' -
. i.
. ..
? IV
;» ' ’ - '
'
.
. , w . : . * i-M.
Mm
■
rP%<?
; IP:
mm
■MM- ■ ' :
:
■ ;
■ ■■■.■ ik*
■
i
* *•!
-
■MM _
ii
.
IM
",; ' . ■" :
ym
* . .. p;P : ■
, ■
s, ' -
u\.
\
i.
- v= *ot •
II!S
m
t.
m
Htt
liil—
liiill
:: .';
liil
'
usi
* , •• •'
'
ISIIIII
' . ,
: ■ ■.: ;.
■B
■
am
,
P. aiP"' '■■■■
fM
i
vT
■.
iinp
,1
i£d,Jin±i
]MHM
ill
SSI
IM W
■■ 1: ■
. '/ r
SpaSpi
■
■lll
lilllil
■ M
ss
-
■ i§ mi
§
specially
for our.
Soldiers
& Sailors
on active
sendee
w.
iM
&
0
tn
Q If
z:
jZ
iii
ly
r
CO
r
,r
mi'«
Eg
r»
garett
Send
your friend
one for
’
he will
2. OZ. TOBACCO &- 50 CIGARETTES
OF THE WORLD RENOWNED BRAND
IN THE ONE HERMETICALLY SEALED TIN
m
H
I
■:
m
i
m
S;
MP
PH
:
r
v'"-
-
HANUFAC*f
ILLS i AO3
m
8*
*>
Mixtiip
Cd 7LOCV-
fcctc&zcL
Cl?i,s
*. /f
JL
mursly,'
m
I I
ri
«
I I I CZ
I L, L -O
THE
PIPE OF QUALITY
400
LMN
m
m
m
m
tve ry P 'P e Guarail t«ed
'i LM N
fsm&tk


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR RIFT for non-flowing bores and where
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney,
for increasing supply at Pera Bore, Bourke.
the water has receded.
Adopted by the Government
[2
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST. REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
ADAM AX ROOFING is Real Protection to Any Building—
The weather finds no way in which to attack it.
Rain does not affect it; Summer Suns do not dry up or melt it;
Winter Cold does not crack it. It is thicker and more pliable than
any other roofing—it is also Acid Resisting.
Stands for Cool Buildings in Summer —-warm ones in Winter.
Sold in 1-, 2- and 3-ply. Enquire Now.
WM. AD \MS & CO. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney
JEEVES
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Bank oe Aus-
tralia :
Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1912 .. £14,606 £14,606
June, 1913 . . 32,030 46,636
Profit.
Dec., 1913 .. 1,547 45,089
June, 1914 . . 8,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 .. 13,429 23,567
Reserves.
June, 1915 .. 25,789 2,222
Dec., 1915 . . 50,949 53,171
June, 1916 . . 93,898 147,069
This bank is owned by the Commonwealth,
whose Parliament authorised first a capital
of £1,000,000, to be raised by guaranteed
debentures, and subsequently £10,000,000.
When this increased capital was approved
of no debentures had been issued. There
was, however, a proposal that the Common-
wealth Bank should take over one or two
private banks; so this bank got ready in
case it should ever have to speak quickly.
Actually, no purchase having been made,
the bank still has no capital apart from the
profit it has saved; but that is already a
fair amount, the surprising growth of the
reserves being due to three things: (1) -
The large Commonwealth loan and other
transactions due to the war; (2) the Com-
monwealth Government’s support, which to
all intents gives to creditors the guarantee
of an uncalled capital equal to the whole
taxable wealth of the country; (3) the fact
that there are no dividends to be paid, the
whole of the profits being thus available for
reserves. The following table shows how
enormously the figures have expanded under
the first two of the foregoing influences: —
Liabilities.
June, ’l5. June, ’l6. Increase.
Deposits, etc.
(ordinary) . . £9,297,854 £32,107,152 £22,809,298
Deposits(savings) 7,420,647 9,477,896 2,057,249
Assets.
Coin and deposits 8,397,282 12,129,303 3,732,021
C’wealth notes . . 568,046 15,303,830 14,735,784
Public securities 5,479,480 8,255,882 2,776,402
Advances .. 2,147,339 5,721,357 3,574,018
Premises .. 128,576 321,744 93,168
To ascertain what real progress the bank is
making it is best to take the line dealing
with advances. That is the one least
affected by the abnormal conditions of war.
This comparison shows that in the 12
months the bank has more than doubled its
business. The size of these general operations
can perhaps best be judged by putting the
advances up alongside those of one or two
private banks of old standing (in this com-
parison the figures for the private banks are
the averages of advances for the April-June
quarter) :—•
Bank of N. S. Wales .. .. £29,239,016
Commercial of Sydney .. 18,378,848
Union of Australia . . . . 17,107,268
Bank of Australasia .. . . 16,504,898
National of Australasia . . 9,339,018
E. S. and A 7,056,942
Queensland National . . . . 7,017,260
Bank of Victoria . . . . 6,375,619
Commonwealth Bank . . . . 5,721,357
After that the Commercial of Australia, the
London and the A.B.C. So in a general
way of business the Commonwealth has
still a long way to go before its head is
level with those of the tallest poppies.
* * * *
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral property and products’ salesmen
(the deficit to start with consisted of good-
will less reserves transferred from the old
co.) -
Towards De-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
1910.. —■ £31,729
1911. . £20,214 6 p.c. = £11,212 £9002 22,727
1912.. 17,893 6 „ „ 12,345 5548 17,179
1913.. 17,834 6 „ „ 12,345 5489 11,690
1914.. 21,100 6 „ „ 12,345 8755 2,935
1915.. 13,819 6 ~ „ 12,345 1474 1,461
Reserves.
1916.. 21,811 7 „ „ 14,403 7408 5,947
It is really time some definite arrangement
was come to with the Income Tax people as
the result of which cos. would not regard it
as necfessary or at least advisable to do fancy
tricks with their accounts. Here, for in-
stance, was £3522 brought forward in Profit
and Loss from last year. But instead of
keeping it there the lot has been transferred
to a reserve fund, and the appropriation
account is a statement of the year’s opera-
tions only—so much net profit made, dis-
posed ;of in such-and-such a way. The
trouble is that the Federal law says the in-
dividual shareholder shall pay income-tax on
his dividends, while the co. shall pay tax on
profits made but undivided. Now, suppose
a co. brings forward £5OOO undivided from
1915, makes £20,000 in 1916, and pays in
dividends £lB,OOO, one would naturally
assume that the co. would pay tax on £2OOO
—the difference between the £lB,OOO paid
away and the £20,000 made. But there is
another way that a hungry taxation office
may read it. “Oh, no,” it may say to the
co., “you paid away in 1916 the £5OOO you
had over from 1915, so there is £7OOO of the
profits of 1916 that you haven’t divided and
must pay tax upon.” Hence the rush to put
P. and L. balances into reserves. And hence
also in this case the appropriation of £5OOO
out of profits to buy war loan. In the ordi-
nary course this would not be shown, and
ought not to be shown as an appropriation
of profits; but it has been done this way
apparently to escape a controversy with the
Income Tax people.
Goodwill is still shown as an asset, and
the reserves mentioned in the last line of the
table are arrived at this way:—
Reserves . . . . .. .. £40,522
This year’s surplus profits transferred 7,408
£47,930
Less goodwill . . .. .. • • • • 41,983
Reserves .. .. .. .. •• £5,947
Whether the co. has tangible assets £5947 in
excess of capital depends, however, upon
whether the properties are worth what they
stand at in the books. When the co. was
formed in 1910 freeholds stood at £81,522.
They are now up to £158,387; and it is
very doubtful whether fair value was got in
most buildings erected during the three or
four years over which this co.’s building cam-
paign lasted. There no doubt were circum-
stances in which construction was justified.
It pays sometimes to give £lOO,OOO for a
£30,000 ship because you can make enormous
profits at once. But the obvious thing to be
done in such a case is to write that ship
down to the normal £30,000 out of the early
profits. And it seems to this paper that
something similar —-on a small scale, cer-
tainly—ought to be done in connection with
works of recent construction.
And if the balance-sheet for the reason
just mentioned looks better perhaps than it
should, the profit also certainly looks better
because of the sales of wool carried over into
this year from the previous one. Abnormal
prices 'for wool and fat stock have also
greatly improved the gross earnings, though
outgoings have also been heavier. All things
considered, the old firm’s trade seems to be
well held. The average sales of wool for the
past two years were 95,969 bales; for the
five years prior to the formation of the co.
(1905-9) the average was 92,985 bales. Fat
sheep sold are of course less now, but we
have had a drought; and the business in fat
cattle has increased at least 25 p.c. A more
doubtful feature is the increase in advances
—from £114,000 when the co. was formed to
a present £178,234. It may be all right; but
it would certainly be better if a co. could
get a commission business without making
these investments, which always carry some
risk. To finance this lot means that the co.
has itself to come at the bank for £75,733,
and it owes £52,728 besides.-
* * * *
Wellington Investment, Trustee and
Agency Co. (M.L.) :
Added to Re.
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1903. .£4061 10 p.c. = £2750 £l3ll £17,571
1904.. 4110 10 „ „ 2750 1366 18,937
, ( £19,250 of reserves capitalised I ~
1905 " 13510 10 p.c. = 2762 748 (
1906.. 4708 6 „ „ 2989 1719 2,154
1907.. 4779 6 „ „ 3000 1779 3,933
1908.. 4917 6 „ „ 3000 1917 5,850
1909.. 4312 6 „ „ 3000 1312 7,162
1910.. 3769 6 „ „ 3000 769 7,931
1911.. 4658 6 „ „ 3000 1658 9,589
1912.. 4967 6 „ „ 3000 1967 11,556
1913.. 4957 7 „ „ 3500 1457 13,013
Premiums on new shares. . 1047 14,060
1914.. 4698 7 p.c. = 3521 1177 15,237
Premiums on new shares. . 91 15,328
1915.. 4669 7 p.c. = 4139 530 15,858
Premiums on new shares. . 49 15,907
1916.. -4*676 7 p.c. = 4334 342 16,249
The Maoriland law relating to financial cos.
is loose in almost all respects, and seems to
be specially designed to make a smash easy.
There is, among other things, apparently
nothing to prevent a co. setting up at once
as a racecourse punter and a trustee. This
“trustee” co. has borrowed £102,354 on de-
posit, and has practically the lot lent on
mortgage; yet it seems plain enough that no
trustee co. should be permitted to trade on
borrowed money at all. However, in this
case apparently no harm is done, for the
trustee business isn’t developed. It is simply
an investment co., which is using about
£2 11s. of other people’s money for every £1
of its own, and has 70 p.c, of the whole lot
in mortgages, 15 p.c. in freeholds and lease-
holds, 11 p.c. in debentures (mostly public)
and only 4 p.c. in cash and sundries. On the
figures the position is insecure, and the
nature and extent of the risks seems to call
for larger additions to reserves than have
been made during the last two years. Which
is another way of saying that it is doubtful
whether 7 p.c. can be paid at present if
adequate provision is made for contingencies
—and very formidable contingencies they are
in these days. Yet admittedly the whole thing
may be perfectly safe. It all depends on
management. That may be angelic, while
the critic is all the time thinking of mere
humans who make the average of mis-shots.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1909.. £4llO 10p.c.=£3740 £370 £28,348
Dec., 1909.. 4937 12$ „ „ 4683 254 28,602
Premiums on new shares 19 28,621
June, 1910.. 4687 12$ p.c.= 4687 28,621
Premiums on nev? shares 3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 12$ p.c.= 4859 999 32,715
Premiums on new shares 12 32,727
June, 1911.. 6081 124 p.c.= 4881 1200 33,927
Dec., 1911.. 5981 124 ~ „ 4881 1100 35,027
June, 1912.. 6024 124 „ „ 4882 1142 36,169
Dec., 1912.. 6468 124 ~ „ 5410 1058 37,227
Premiums on new shares 2915 40,142
June, 1913.. 6972 12$ p.c.= 6216 756 40,898
Dec., 1913.. 8766 124 „ „ 6571 2195 43,093
June, 1914.. 7531 12$ „ „ 6640 891 43,984
Dec., 1914.. 5198 10 „ „ 5312 43,870
June, 1915.. 6594 10 „ „ 5518 1076 44,946
Dec., 1915.. 7096 10 „„ 5625 1471 46,417
June, 1916.. 6246 10 „ „ 5625 621 47,038
There have been better times than this last
half-year for the highly-respectable old
M. de P. On June 30, 1914, the co. had
£140,540 lent out; two years later the total
was down to £130,155. Perhaps the co.
could lend more but doesn’t want to; but it
is more likely, seeing that it has nearly £9OOO
on hand, that the business isn’t offering. We
have to recast our views about many things
as we get along on the journey, and one of
those things is the immediate financial result
of war. Only 100 years ago, when men were
taken out 'of England to fight “old Bony-
parte,” those who were left behind mostly
starved or came close to it. There was in-
stant distress. But the world has developed
its finance amazingly since then; and finance
is very largely if not mostly the making use
of credit. As a result, this country never in
all its life had as much money to spend as
it has now. The last man who sat alongside
the desk where this is written is a big
general storekeeper. “It is easier,” he said,
“to sell a pair of stockings for 3s. to-day
than it was to do it for 2s. three years ago.”
So we have also the really amazing result
that a money-lending concern of this sort
has more unused money in the till than it
had before the war started. Yet no doubt
its rates are higher; and that the profits
show so much shrinkage this half-year is
partly due, perhaps, to defalcations. These
seem to be one of the constant risks in this
class of business. However, even with special
losses thrown in, it shows a fair margin of
profit over the 10 p.c. which is the least it
has paid since 1903. And the surprising
thing is that it can do it without risking
anybody else’s money.
The Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co. :
Reserves
Added (including
to Re- Sinking
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
1904. . £11,540 8 p.c. = £8,400 £3140 £32,289
1905.. 11,678 8 „„ 8,400 3278 35,567
1906.. 11,736 8 „,, 8,400 3336 38,903
£26,250, being one-fourth of capital, returned 12,653
1907.. 11,408 8 p.c. = 7,350 4058 16,711
1908.. 9,944 8 „ „ 6,300 3644 20,355
Assets further written down, £10,806 . . 9,549
1909.. 9,666 8 p.c. = 6,300 3366 12,915
1910.. 10,193 8 ~,, 6,300 3893 16,808
1911 . . 8,739 8 „ „ 6,300 2439 19,247
1912.. 10,405 8 „„ 6,300 4105 23,352
1913.. 11,724 8 „,, 6,300 5424 28,776
Further £26,250 of capital returned .. 2,526
1914.. 12,363 8 p.c. = 5,250 7113 9,639
1915.. 10,427 8 „„ 4,200 6227 15,866
Net Profits.
1916.. 5,869 20$ „ „ 10,762 10,973
It looks as though the co. had trouble with
the Income Tax people over the additions to
the Sinking Fund; or perhaps it merely
thought it might have trouble. So the
Sinking Fund stands where it did a year
ago, and the Profit and Loss balance has
been absorbed by a bonus of Is. 3d. per 10s.
share in addition to the usual 8 p.c.
dividend. Also £2500 has been written
off against depreciation. The co.’s con-
cession runs to 1925 and the co. has
been very wisely preparing to return
capital. The table shows half of it paid
back; and, though the special payment was
made during the year, there still remains
£10,.964 on hand, all of it invested apart
from the business except £2589 which is in
“land for No. 2 station.” The profit in
excess of the 8 p.c. dividend for the past
five years has been as follows: —
1912 .. £4105 | 1915 .. £6227
1913 .. 5424 | 1916 .. 4169
1914 .. 7113 i
That is an average of £5408; and as the
co has nine years to go to recover £41,536
(not reckoning last year’s bonus as return
of capital), and as there are a few assets
that won’t have to be handed over, the co.
no doubt reckons it is pretty safe. Still
gross revenue hasn’t been moving the right
way lately: —
1911 .. £19,578 1914 .. £20,119
1912 . . 20,375 1915 . . 19,237
1913 . . 20,010 1916 . . 18,647
The trouble with the hydraulic lift every-
where is the intensity of electric competi-
tion ; and that isn’t likely to ease off.
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on Writ-
Pro- Property ten ® e "
fits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., 1909..£2009 £379 8 p.c. =£1912 —£19,891
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 „ „ 1912 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ ~1912 - 21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ „ 1912 £5Ol 22,111^
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ ~ 1912 23,584
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 26,008
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9J „ „ 2231 29,447
July, 1912.. 3132 859 8 „ „ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 21,584
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p.c.= 2294 22,814
July, 1913.. 3237 122 8 ~ „ 2294 23,879
Jan,, 1914.. 3295 423 8 „ „ 2294 25,303
July, 1914.. 3471 778 8 „,, 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915.. 3612 360 8 „ „ 2294 28,936
July, 1915.. 3400 139 10 „ „ 2868 29,607
Jan., 1916.. 3622 —lO „ „ 2868 30,361
July, 1916.. 3268 360 10 „ „ 2868 31,121
That £360 shown in the last line as profit on
property sales is doubtful. It has really
dropped into the reserves without mention-
ing where it came from, and is probably a
card which the Board has had up its sleeve
in case of emergencies. The Society, like
almost all of its tribe, had to reconstruct
itself when Victoria’s great borrowing boom
burst; and the “profits on property sales”
really mean recoveries of capital written
off. There is not much more to come from
that source, as the third line in this table
shows: —-
July, ’Ol. Julv,’ls. Jan.,’l6. July,’l6.
Liabilities ..£37,015 £39,587 £37,768 £35,225
Advances .. 19,998 120,095 117,226 119,251
Foreclosures ~ 72,305 7,912 7,937 3,780
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 1,412 3,192 3,540
However, if there isn’t much more to come,
past recoveries have been of very great ser-
vice in building up a reserve equal to nearly
three-fifths of the written-down capital, and
that makes alO p.c. dividend possible. It is
an excellent return, considering the small
amount of other people’s money at risk —
only £35,000 —and but for the change in the
value of money owing to the war The
Bulletin is doubtful whether it could have
been maintained. For this business isn’t
one which lends itself to big profits in these
days of State advances.
The Zinc Corporation, Ltd., was re-
formed as at July 1, 1911, to amalgamate the
old Zinc Corporation and the Broken Hill
South Blocks; and it is not much use carry-
ing the figures back beyond that atnalgama-
tion. Since then :
r Dividends.— —- — Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Off. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
’ll.. 75,121 30p.c. =36,854 20p.e.= 32,657 Nil 3,733
’12..266,276 371 „ „ 92,135 35 ~ „ 114,299 40,636 22,939
’13..210,236 35 „ ~85,992 30 ~ ~ 97,971 22,551 26,661
’l4. .143,635 20 ~,,49,138 22,275 98,883
’15..136,562 25 ~ ~61,423 10 ~ ~ 32,657 121,032 20,333
This is the co. that was formed a good deal
in the dark to buy “tailings” dumps at
Broken Hill and get the zinc out of them.
Things didn’t go as well as was expected,
and before the co. went far it had to raise
money for which it offered a 20 p.c. pref.
with full participation in profits earned in
excess of that. People have said that the
insiders knew what was coming. Anyhow,
the table shows what did Come: the lucky
people who took those shares—£24s,692
■worth —have got £825,542 during the past
five years. Ordinaries certainly haven’t got
anything to complain of either: they have
averaged 19 p.c., and would have averaged
more had the war not knocked the bottom
out of the contracts which the co. had with
German smelters, who used to take its
concentrates. These figures, by the
way, furnish a pretty good reason why
the English directors of this co. didn’t
show any great eagerness to put an end
to the relations with the Germans.
As a matter of fact, the Australian pro-
ducers of zinc had nothing to complain of so
far as the prices they got from the Germans
are concerned. They probably will not do
as well in the future. The Germans wanted
the stuff for their own purposes and the Aus-
tralian producers were quite content to
accept the benefits.
After the old co. had been going for a few
years the directors decided to buy the South
Blocks mine. This paper didn’t think it was
much of a bargain; and this paper was
wrong. The directors probably got a sur-
prise, too. But they naturally claim
prescience; and one result is that when 18
months ago they bought the South Extended,
the chairman replied to critics with: “I had
literally to force the purchase of the South
Blocks on the shareholders; and almost the
identical objections'which I hear to-day with
regard to the South Extended were used
about that purchase.” It seems that the
co., which was on the verge of paying
£50,000 for a half-interest in the South Ex-
tended property, eventually got about a three-
fourths interest for £35,000. This much, at
any rate, can be said: if it is worth £46,000
or so to anybody else it is worth more than
that to the Zinc Corporation. Ore reserves
of the South Blocks as at Dec. 31 were esti-
mated at 1,504,211 tons, averaging 14.8 p.c.
lead, 2.50 z. silver and 9.2 p.c. zinc. That
makes a pretty good mine. Its big neighbor,
the South, had at the same date 3,350,000


mmmiii 1111111 l 11 IIICHIIIllllllllll 1111111 111 11 ill 1111 U11 ■■ I ■ I ■ 111 ■■ 111111 Ml 1 1 Hill 1 11111 111 j If IIITTTI
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industi'ial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
m
mm
ii^r
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Illlllilllllljlllllllliniilllllllinillllllllllimuiumnillilimmiiimii mmumimimumi.mimiiii
Works: Trafford Park. Manchester,
Just as there are mines that are mines and mines
that are “duffers” so does one of the principal of
mine equipments., i.e., belting, vary greatly accord-
ing to the maker. As the Goodyear Tyre and Rubber
00. make, among many other things, belting that
satisfies the most exacting requirements of mining
operations from Alaska to the Panama Canal, and
even further south, they claim that all Australian
requirements are provided for in their extensive
range of Conveyor, Driving and Elevator belting.
Mine managers are invited to apply to the various
State depots., or direct to 231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for information, samples and quotations.— Advt.
* * * *
Economy and reliability in your mine are the
fundamental requisites for commercial success.
B.T.H. Motors, which are characterised by their big
overload capacity and sustained speed under the most
severe conditions, will guarantee that thoroughness
and economy so imperative in mine service. For
full information and particulars communicate with
the Australian General Electric Company, Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney; corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. —Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. — Advt.
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have t# solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
* * *
The Hetton Colliery Plant, which is for sale, com-
prises one 150 K.W., and one 100 K.W., 500 volt.,
D.C. Sets, low- and high-pressure boilers, winding
engines, air-compressors, pumps, Armores copper
cable, valves, wrought- and east-iron pipe, etc., etc.
Complete catalogue can be obtained from the office
of the Hetton Coal Company Ltd., 56 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe. —Wood, if kept wet, is prac-
tically everlasting, and there is no inner exposed
metal to rust or corrode. It works out much
cheaper, too, than any other class of pipe, so far as
first cost, labor for laying and freight charges are
concerned. Send for illustrated catalogue. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney.
Contractors to all State Governments. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.; Port Adelaide,
S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? Tf
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt. # *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
/£ ARE BORN TO
ifOUR B*HU OS.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State. ]
Write for particulars. |
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
tons. The average value of the South’s ore
isn’t stated; but the mean of the ore from
the three bottom levels, where the reserves
chiefly lie, is about 14.6 p.c. lead, 7.80 z. sil-
ver and 14.7 p.c. zinc. The bottom level
developed in the South is at 1270 ft.; at the
South Blocks they have only got down to
1180 ft. In addition to the mine the co.
has purchased “tailings” which stand in the
books at £178,838. The quantity is not
expressed ; but as at June 30 the B. H. South
showed that in its dumps it had 872,447 tons
sold to this co. Further it has an interest
in the Associated Smelters. So the Zinc
Corporation has the South Blocks, a very
fair mine of fair lead grade, but rather poor
in zinc and very poor in silver; the South
Extended interest, of unknown value;
£314,947 in “investments,” including the
£lOO,OOO interest in the Smelters (the
British Treasury, by the way, wouldn’t allow
the co. to issue proposed debentures to make
this purchase, so it had to be done out of
undivided profits) ; the tailings dumps before-
mentioned ; £84,687 which it may some day
get from the German metal buyers, Aaron
Sohn; about £127,000 in pro-
ducts ; and the plant, stores, etc. And it
owes (including payments to be made for
“tailings”) under £125,000.
The future of course is full of uncer-
tainty. The Bulletin has been a voice
crying in the wilderness that the “solution”
of “the metal problem” was just about as
unsatisfactory as it could be; but hadn’t
Mr. Hughes done it, and wasn’t Mr. Hughes
a new species of necromancer ? Possibly
some doubts may now occur to others
regarding the “settlement” of the difficulty
with regard to the disposal of our metals.
And especially our zinc ; and it is that metal
with which this co. is chiefly concerned.
-X- * * *
Chillagoe debenture holders have accepted
£450,000 for their property, and the State
will now handle the line right from Cairns
to the Etheridge. The section from Mareeba
to Mungana (102 miles) was profitable—
on paper—mainly because of the Chillagoe
smelter? and it is quite possible that that
plant will be re-opened under State man-
agement. Success, however, depends on the
development of rich mines like the old 0.K.,
Mount Molloy, Lady Jane (Mungana) and
the Einasleigh. Discoveries drop in at wide
intervals; and something is certainly due
now. Manager Rutledge, of the Mammoth,
recently gave a most encouraging report
about a new show known as Bruce’s, on
the Newcastle Range, a few miles from the
Etheridge River. The outcrop, he says, con-
tains some 400 or 500 tons of 12 p.c. copper
ore, and that is something for a start.
* * * *
Meggitt, Ltd., Australian manufacturers
of linseed oil and by-products, finds that the
market is growing; and the energetic co. is
prepared to grow with it. The capital has
so far been just under £35,000, in 20,000 £1
10 p.c. pref. shares and 29,876 ordinaries of
10s. each. The Federal Treasurer has now
authorised a capital of £125,000: 89,628
ordinaries of 10s. each (three for one) will
be issued to present ordinary shareholders,
£20,000 in first prefs. will go to present
prefs., £20,000 in second prefs. will be
offered to shareholders, and £40,186 will be
held in reserve.
Hawkins Hill Reward (N.S.W.) is get-
ting out only small quantities of 16 to
17 dwt. ore. Last year 3730 tons returned
£11,211, or a shade over 60s. per ton. The
Board thought it good enough to shell out
a maiden threepenny, but even a threepenny
was venturesome. For ore reserves scarcely
exist: many of the faces show a reef only
a few inches thick, and in the deepest work-
ings where the reef is larger the values are
poor.
For the half-year ended July the Cale-
donian Collieries, Ltd. (N.S.W.), was
unable to pay a dividend on its ordinary
shares, but prefs get 3 p.c. for the six
months. Shipments of coal from Newcastle
to foreign ports were 299,646 tons less for
the first six months of this year than for the
first half of 1915.
Sampling parties on Edna Central’s New
Reef didn’t draw a blank in the south-west
drive after the first 35ft. of anxious time
was over, for beyond the bend the shoot
bulged out to 16ft. of rich stuff. The yield
from 2960 tons of Bdwt. stone was better
than the July figures, but it was short by
one-third of expectations. On the boundary,
work by the Edna May on the main reef at
300 ft. doesn’t raise much hope for the Cen-
tral. This means that Giblin will have to
depend on the New Reef, which has been
scraped pretty clean above the 75ft. level,
and has a couple of stopes taken out at
121 ft. There can’t be over-much stone there,
so he will have to call pretty solidly on
No. 3, where in view of the sick look of
things east of the crosscut he will have to
rely on the 120 ft. of stone in the south-west
crosscut. His anxiety there is whether the
face isn’t dangerously like that worn by the
No. 2 level just before it rudely bumped into
the greenstone country. If that be so, shaft-
sinking and crosscutting will have to be
swift if the monthly supply of 2800 tons is
to be maintained. The table records work
on the new make up to date: —
Tons. Value.
April . . • • 1600 39/-
May .. •• 1768 46/-
June . . • • 2835 26/10
July . . • • 2905 23/10
August . . • • 2960 32/3
The August return was, of course, pick
Williams’s farewell, with an extra kick in it.
From a Bulletin man:—
It is anticipated that Giblin, Edna May Cential s
new manager, will carefully sample and measure up
ore reserves and officially relate just what he finds.
In that case it may be expected that the days of
high assays and glowing reports are over. Alto-
gether it looks as though Central stock should
shortly fall to something like its true value.
Unless something soon turns up the life of Edna
May can be definitely measured, and it will be fewer
years than old supporters of the stock, seem to think.
The dyke disclosed at the south-west end of the
workings at 300 ft. has caused a shortening of the
ore shoot, which is likely to continue with depth.
But intrinsically the mine is better by a long way
than the bears are endeavoring to demonstrate, and
these who are selling stock expecting it to promptly
recede to £3 or £4 are taking a risk.
Westralian holders now admit that the “Queen-
street crowd” (Melb.) can give them points in
market tactics. But how ■is it that directors may
sell out and still retain seats on Boards ? It is
pretty safe to say that some Westonia directors are
not only sold but oversold.
Edna May Deeps struck a rich patch in its shaft
all right, but as to developments no one appears to
know exactly where they are. Ten tons from the
shaft yielded 4oz. to the ton, but future crushings
will probably be nearer lOdwt. The market now
values the mine at £160,000, but allowing for all
favorable indications it looks as though £50,000
was nearer the true value.
Through the good offices of the bulls, Battlers and
Consols are still permitted to pass as mines.
* * * *
Riverina South (W.A.), coveting the old
Riverina next door, has secured Treasurer
Higgs’s permission to allow it to take that
mine from the hard-up Westralian Govern-
ment. This deal will eat up nearly all the
South’s available cash, but some kind person
has obliged with £6OOO to finance the fusion
on the basis of an issue of debentures, which
are a first charge on plant and mines, and
carry war-time interest at the rate of 10 p.c.
It is difficult to understand how the
Treasurer came to approve of that and the
5 p.c. com. To get a clear run the co. is
increasing the calling power on 60,000 shares
from 10s. to 20s. Which makes the necessity
for the 10 p.c. interest and 5 p.c. com. still
less understandable. If the mine is worth
the cash why not ask shareholders to put up
the 2s. per share necessary to settle the deal?
Prospectors on the new find at Mt. Mon-
ger, near Bulong, and not far from the
Sudden Jerk (W.A.), where a lot of allu-
vial ground has been worked in the past,
have obtained some rich crushings from
leaders. Another party two miles away is
also doing well; but nothing of any conse-
quence has yet been exposed in either claim.
Water scarcity is the bugbear of the field.
* * * *
Golden Spinifex (W.A.) wants Govern-
ment assistance to open up a show near
Laverton which lately reported 60s. values
over a small width. The State Mining
Engineer is alleged to have recommended a
lean, notwithstanding that the locality is
noted for early deaths.
* * * *
The Westralian Government has been in-
vited to succor the Corinthian North. The co.
points out that if it is obliged to close down
100 men will be thrown out of work,
another 100 will be “seriouslv affected,” the
Southern Cross-Bullfinch railway receipts
will slump and the State Water Supply
Department will lose a good customer. Last
year £33,000 was taken out of the property,
but that didn’t cover working expenses and
necessary additions to plant. Under pre-
sent conditions it is impossible to make
ends meet.
* * * *
Having failed to secure Treasurer Higgs’s
blessing on the proposed Broncho float,
Bullant Mclntyre is now seeking permis-
sion to form a co. to work Allen’s Find at
Marda. Proposed capital is £15,000 in
30,000 shares, of which half are offered to
the public. The remainder are to go to
the mortgagee, owner, wages men and
others. As a gamble the venture may have
value later on, but dividends are doubtful.
Slowly but surely Golden Point scrip
(W.A.) is getting down to The Bulletin’s
valuation of 6s. per cwt. Shares soared to
235. apiece after the estimate was given,
but that was during the Central boom. The
co.’s Edna May show is badly wanting in
gold contents, while the mill has demon-
strated that the Comet Yale property will'
not support a co. The most sensible thing
for the Board to do would be to recommend
liquidation and give shareholders a chance
to get some of their money back while there
is a bit of unexpended capital.
Word comes from Laverton (W.A.) that
Amalgamated Westralia has opened up a
new lens of ore at 80ft. in the old Black
Swan lease, Burtville, and that a trial
crushing of 12 tons from a 3ft. face aver-
aged 15dwt. over the plates and sdWt. in
the residues. The venture is purely specu-
lative ; everything depends on the showing
at depth.
Commodore (W.A.) is still treating accu-
mulated slimes on its old lease and testing
its new option at Meekatharra. Only dead
work is being done in the latter, but the
management expects to be able to form some
sort of estimate of its value in a few weeks.
The N. S. Wales option which the co. was
considering is definitely off.
* * * *
Black Range Pinnacles has got the mill
removed and going again, and according to
a recent prediction of the Board the mine
will pay monthly divs. of 6d. from now until
August next out of the gold in sight. Plant
is expected to treat 2000 tons a month at a
cost of about fl per ton. The ore body
is said to be 750 ft. long, wide, and
worth 13d wt.
Beddy Bodycomb, chairman of the North
Woolamai Collieries, next door to the Yic.
State coal-mine at Powlett: —
Your directors trust now that the plant and
machinery is in working order sufficient miners will
be obtained to produce the necessary output at a
profitable rate, and when such is accomplished we
feel assured that the coal can be sold at such a price
as to enable the co. to become a profitable concern.
Hope so; but the co.’s real.trouble isn’t men
at all. It is that the seam of A 1 quality
coal is only 20 to 21 inches thick. The per-
centage of slack is also dismal, 1191 tons out
of 4072 tons broken. Last half-year the co.
got £4055 from coal and £1989 from the
State, and there was an outgo of £8862 for
wages and plant. This isn’t profitable by a
long chalk, and accounts for the hustle to
reach the thicker and better coal bored
through 150yds. ahead of the present develop-
ment heading. And that means more calls.
United Hustlers and Redan, Bendigo, still
remains the one patchy show on the Hustlers
line that may be expected to provide a sur-
prise at any time. With two shafts going, a
lot of tributors are earning a crust and help-
ing the co. to do its own bit of prospecting.
This takes the form of breaking out east. to
reach the continuation of the big syncline
worked in Lansell’s old Comet mine. The
Maiden, White and other reefs also lie out
that way. If Alec Peacock wants to do
Bendigo a good turn he should call in geolo-
gist Herman to inquire whether this isn’t
one of the best bits of prospecting available
in Bendigo. Old hands like Lansell, Mueller
and Dyason liked the big lines, and it would
be a bad blunder if the Hustlers and its side-
lines were allowed to drift into idleness for
lack of a little support.
* * * *
Low yields and higher costs are respon-
sible for Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo, closing
up its No. 1 mine and reducing No. 2 to the
baling stage. For all the good that has
come out of No. 3 shaft until quite recently
it too could have been given a rest, but
calls were paid because with a big claim
like Johnson’s there is always the chance
of a flutter. Just now all eyes are on the
spurs north of the crosscut at 1150 ft., where
under a steep slide gold is showing. Seeing
that the 2500 tons crushed before the change
gave only 2fdwt., the bit of comfort now
provided has not come too soon. John
Veale thinks sufficiently well of what he
sees to talk about a prosperous year, though
he doesn’t say whether he measures pro-
sperity by a 2fdwt. footrule or by something
better. His game in the immediate future
is to run out a level to catch the spurs
100 ft. deeper; then he will have years of
work to pdd to the toll of service Johnson’s
has rendered to the Job-like call-payers who
have stood by it.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) pays ss. per
share (£40,000) and does it easily, because
it is making between £3O and £4O per ton
of copper with the selling price at £lOO, and
its own output is over 7000 tons a year.
The fine old producer, which has been going
55 years, has greatly improved its recoveries,
and it is due to this metallurgical progress
that it can place fine copper on board
ship for less than £6O per ton. Mount Mor-
gan cannot do that; even Hampden-Clon-
curry, with new mines, can’t produce the
fine metal for £5O. At the moment the
Wallaroo works are turning out more refined
metal than any others in Australia bar Port
Ivembla.
North Mount Farrell (Tas.) hands out
Is. 6d. per share, which is rather less than
was expected, the June distribution having
been 2s. Altogether £43,930 has been paid,
and of that total no less than £16,000 (4s.
per share) has been distributed this year.
War prices, of course.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott (Q.), which closed down its
smelter at the end of July, will probably
resume early next year. Meantime the co.
will extend its works at Selwyn and build a
refinery at Bowen. Townsville is a bit
nearer, but Bowen has _ a big, handy coal
seam. In planning this refinery the co.
seems to have struck a bargain for the con-
struction of various small branch lines by
the State.
* * * *
Jack Munro has reopened the O.K. (N.Q.),
which he prospected. Starting with £5OOO it
paid £98,000 in divs. The Treasurer has granted
permission to register, and the new co. is
to have a capital of £32.500 in 130,000
shares of 55., of which 30,000 go to the;
vendors. Munro claims 3000 tons of good
ore at grass, a lot more second-grade stuff
in the dumps, and 12 p.c. proved by drill
at 500 ft., though little work has been done
below 150 ft.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 26.)


Heelings
Est. 1818.
Co
en
en
0 W
heering
ERRYBRMIUi!
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCELLENCY
SIR GERALD STRICKLAND, G.C.M.G.
THE SYDNEY BOOK CLUB.
Australia’s Leading Circulating Library.
Write, call or telephone for the new catalogue of
books in circulation. Telephone: City 9071 and 9072.
Three Six Twelve
Subscription. Months. Months. Months.
Town: 2 Works and a Magazine 14/- 25/- 42/-
~ S Works and a Magazine 17/6 31/6 52/6
• Country: 8 vols. at a time .. 17/6 31/6 52/6
„ 10 vols. at a time .. 24/- 37/6 63/-
Liberal supplies of all the latest Novels (British,
American and French), Biography, Travel, History,
Poetry, Scientific Books, Theology, etc., and all the
books on the present Great War. A plentiful supply
of the World's best magazines, including French and
Italian, are available by subscribers.
All the prominent illustrated and other Weeklies
(British and Australian), Ladies’ Fashion Journals,
etc., will be found on the Book Club Reading Table.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LIMITED,
Publishers to the University.
Booksellers to the University and The Public Library
of N.S.W.,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Between King and Market Streets).
PAULINE et CIE
i nnounce
A Special Shipment of MODEL HATS for the
Coming Race Season.
Denison House Chambers, 3rd Floor,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
For Cold
Weather
Pure Wool Hood ... 3/6
For CAMP or on SERVICE
Heavy Balaclava Cap 4/6
Waterpr’f Cap for sam« 3/6
Post One to Your Soldier
%
*
ROTHWELL’S LTD.
EDWARD ST..
BRISBANE
1679.
SINCE
SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 4, 1916.
My Dear Arini, —
One of last week’s Government House
parties was given to the French Alliance
and the League of Help. His Ex. and Lady
Edeline welcomed the guests in the draw-
ing-room. Once it would have been ablaze
with uniforms on such a night. Now. a
tame procession of feminine frills, with
here and there a pair of swallow tails,
bobbed at the vice-regal post. Lady Edeline
in diamonds and shimmering satin had
cheery soldier Finn to index the arrivals.
Aide Boulton—he’s the new boy—picked
bis way through the ladies’ trains to shadow
his Ex.; and the invaluable rouseabout
Budge headed the company off the toes of
the Personages.
In the alcove where the old throne chair
used to stand—possibly it’s in the cellar
till brighter days—an orchestra failed to
disturb the conversation. Foreign Consuls
Chayet, Watteeuw and Shimizu clung
together on a patch of carpet that seemed
to be a special preserve. Skipper Charvin
brought his Yvonne along. Chevalier Eles
and his sparkling daughter hovered about
the French selection. Here Miss
Soubeiran, Mrs. Jowett, the Shards, Mrs.
Playoust and various madames and demoi-
selles sat politely round the wall. The
Consul-General for Russia-—our sole repre-
sentative of Big Brother’s diplomatic service
—didn’t get over the Murray for the party,
so Mr. Welch, the young man from York-
street who acts as local consul, had to look
as Russian and Imperial as he knew how.
Last week’s star at Government House
was Chevalier Eles, Italian Consul-General,
whose headquarters are Melbourne. He
brought a nice young daughter over with
him —really young, in the simple frock and
blue hair-bow style. A delicate wife keeps
her room at home. The elegant Eles, with
a soft Italian voice, might in an emergency
look the part of Maurico without any make-
up. His orders consisted of a glittering
star, worn where Billjim fastens his neck-
band with a stud or a bit of string, and
white enamel leaves that sat like snowflakes
in his buttonhole. The type of foreign
diplomat we read about and don’t often see,
with a manner as soft as clotted cream.
And he chuckled musically as he told me
how The Bulletin’s Billjim had puzzled
him for so long. “He does so much, I see—
who is Mr. Billjim? I ask. And they tell
me. Now I know, and of course I admire.”
The University Senate, which has been
badly shaken by the advent of a Labor
woman, Mrs. Kate Dwyer, is now trying
to decide where the lady is to sit. She has
been too ill as yet to take her place at the
council table. The Senate hasn’t been feel-
ing very well either. Still, it bears up. Just
now it’s plotting to seat the Senatrix
betw r een Chief Justice Sam Griffith —who is
only there sometimes —and good-natured
Judge Backhouse. They have not been
asked, so you mustn’t tell anybody.
During the current run (not bun, please)
of the Women’s Exhibition, the old soft-rag
depbt that helps the Red Cross will snip the
ends off in the eastern gallery of the Town
Hall. In normal weeks it hides its good
works in the municipal cellar. Eadith
Walker bosses the industries for blind and
disabled soldiers at this big show. And
please don’t worry the boys with pin-pricking
questions. Mrs. Hunt, a lady who miracu-
lously makes a success of the hen-raising
business, gives heart-to-heart talks on White
Orpingtons. In the basement Red Cross
cooks will demonstrate under Mrs. Jocelyne,
Mrs. Creed and others. All this and much
more for one shilling—at the Women’s Work
in Wartime show.
The Royal Art Society’s private view day
brought a steady stream of visitors to the
big sandstone palace of Education in Bridge-
street ; and president Lister and Oxnard
Smith smiled a welcome. Prof. Andy Stuart
took a summary glance at the walls and
their contents. Artists’ wives, Mrs. Lister
amongst them, and their brush men said
“How d’you do?” to a party of early visitors
from Government House. E. Card Trouton
fled away to a christening. lie is the proud
uncle of a niece whose daddy has left for
the war, and he had to see the party
through its troubles. Jackson, a young
man who is forging ahead as a colorist,
had a couple of pictures bought by the
Gallery trustees; and D. J. Reid saw some
of his work booked for the same address.
On Saturday night two boxes at the
Opera House held a Government House
overflow —Miss Strickland, the Harry Finn
family, Dr. Marano, all the Gentlemen
Helps and the Chevalier Eles with his
daughter. She has the music of Italy surg-
ing in her blood and knows every note of
“Cavalleria Rusticana” ; so it was a glorious
time for some of the party, anyhow.
Tenor Cappelli, in a box watching his
compatriots, is a few summers older than he
looks when he leads Leonora off the “Trova-
tore” stage. The reserve which enables
him to hold the soprano at arms’
length in an (otherwise) frenzied love scene
keeps him almost silent through an off-night.
In the same box was a comely lady with a
double chin and a faint likeness to
Queen Victoria portraits of about the period
when the old family tyrant is alleged to
have put grandson Willie across her knee
and given him a heartv smacking. I don’t
know, but the lady in the box looked as
though she might be Mrs. Cappelli.
They’re going to close the doors of the
Opera House between the acts. For this
relief many thanks. If the management
will throw a few tea-leaves here and there
on the carpet round the reserved stalls and
get a competent charlady to chase them
with a broom, local society, as well as plain
citizens, won’t be so liable to have its atten-
tion distracted from the Italian songbirds.
The chorus ladies in the Gonsalez co. are
intelligent rather than beautiful, with an
occasional exception. But they produce the
right kind of vocal background. On Friday
and Saturday nights the petticoat support
was mostly geranium red with black velvet
bars, topped by little white Italian bodices
that look as if they’d shrunk in the wash.
Into the Pagliacci color scheme bounded a
new man, Balboni. Here we had the
traditional love or hate expressed by a tenor
with brains —an extra not expected. He’s
a big, olive-skinned good-looker who bites
out a thrilling song with a set of teeth that
a dentist might ache to borrow for an advt.
Alex. McKinley and his wife are over
from Melbourne. Alex, is vice-president of
the Children’s Welfare Association, and
with 40-odd others he’s seeing our various
“institootions” in their best boots and pina-
fores.
There is a story about the kookaburras
that are going to fill a page of this week’s
Bulletin. A few weeks ago there came
from the Front a dreadfully serious peti-
tion, signed by as many Billjims as could
crowd on to a sheet of foolscap, begging for
a page of “jacks.” And because Billjim’s
wish is law in such matters, Norman
Lindsay, whose latest “bear” page was
produced under similar circumstances, was
asked to get busy. He got busy ; and this
interesting confession arrived with the
equally interesting result: —
The kookaburra page is the result of mere des-
peration. I spent most of last week trying to twist
the derisive bird into a topical shape, but he refused
to lend his appearance to anything except that of a
bird. Anything can be done with bears, for the bear
was designed by an allwise Providence to look like a
human being; birds, on the other hand, refuse to
look like anything but birds, and so I have been
forced to send you the kookaburra in the act of being
a kookaburra. I am usually wakened at dawn by the
laughter of the mockers, and the gentleman in the
page actually sat on my fence to be sketched, such
was his lofty indifference to humanity.
When the first
concert to help the
French Red Cross
was mooted b y
Sydney’s brilliant
pianist Yvonne
(Leverrier) Char-
vin, buckets of iced
water were thrown
over it. Chiefly by
local French resi-
dents. With their
usual delicacy they
shrank from any-
thing that looked
like begging for
their own. But
Yvonne is Aus-
tralian-born and
she knew her
people. So. backed
by the enthusiastic Marich, of Paling’s,
and against the advice of her French
friends, the persistent young woman kept
going, and organised one of the most
sparkling shows our old Town Hall has
housed. The astounding result was a cheque
for £1650. In acknowledgment, the French
Red Cross kissed the hand of Madame per
post, and. later, sent her the diploma of the
Central Council and a shield-shaped brooch.
The souvenir showed the Allies’ flags sur-
rounding the Red Cross; and this is just
how French-Australian Yvonne looked on the
night of that triumphant effort for her
father’s land.
Alfred Hill takes hold of the Apollo Club’s
baton once more. The gentle Arundel
Orchard, who gets a golden lyre this week
as a parting trinket, has resigned the stick..
Hill, a more electric spark, may whip the
Apqllos out of the rut. When he left them
years ago to return to M.L. they were the
Liedertafel and far ahead of their recent
form.
Shipping people and a thousand others
are full of sympathy for manager Bob Bell,
of the North Coast Co., whose eldest son,
Ken, has fallen in France.
Australian soprano Evelyn and
her 'Murkan husband, Howard White,
opened their brief Sydney season in the
Conservatorium, the Taits in charge. The
lady, who has been with the Boston Opera
Co. for some time, is a Junoesque daughter
of the soil. Clad in azure-blue panniers over
a white lace petti, she tripped across a
bleak platform to give her first song to Syd-
ney. It was the Mad Scene from “Lucia,”
with John Amadio’s flute in support. A
clever performance, but “Lucia” needs scen-
ery. Howard White is a favorite in Boston;
and looks it. If he could forget Boston and
let his big bass voice go now and again he
might be a favorite in Sydney, too. He sings
French through his nose. This helped to kill
“Tambour Major” for a start. Later on,
however, the big man got much nearer his
audience, and encores became inevitable. In
spite of a cold and consequent cracked lips
Amadio piped melodiously. Harold Elvins
at the piano.
On September 20
Paul Dufault is to
be chief Voice at a
concert in the
Town Hall. Of
course it’s for the
French League,
which sends bales
of clothing for the
orphans of North-
ern France. These
include, remember,
the desolate chil-
dren of Belgium—
thousands of them
—who fled over the
border before the
howl of the Wild
Beast. The photo,
shows you little
Mrs. Harry Austin,
who is organising this Town Hall effort. She
is about as tall as half-a-minute, but you
couldn’t pack her energy into a 14-liour
day. The useful little woman is the big-
hearted daughter of the late Traffic Com-
missioner Roberts and one of a family of
handsome sisters.
A son of the late Canon Flower married
a Dubbo girl the other week. The bride was
Mary Munckton till she dropped the last
part of her name in St. Mark’s. The long,
ascetic Parson Lea, who used to tend a flock
at Dubbo, tied the knot. When the bell-
ringers had done their best (Darling Point
throws out its chest in the matter of chimes)
Dr. Flower whisked his bud away for the
usual hurried war-time ’moon.
Vera Bedford and Dymphna Kirkcaldie
sang snatches of oper-a in the Little Theatre
to a big audience. It happened last week
and was for the benefit of the War Chest.
Mrs. Ted Antill was president of the com-
mittee which organised the flower- and
sweet-vendors combination. The sweets
were best home-made. This is worth men-
tioning. At some recent smart shows for
war funds they were the worst home ever
made. It seemed as if the infants of our Most
Dyspeptic People had been busy with the
sugar-bag and saucepan, and the fruits
thereof melted away over thumb and fore-
finger.
The opening of a new Anzac Memorial
Club for returned soldiers followed quickly
on the rumpus over the election of an
R.S.A. president. Dean Talbot, a pal of
every boy in khaki since he shared their
bully beef in Gallipoli, has been trying to
quiet General Rumpus. A new club may
stun him.
For one shilling you can peer into the
usually secret corners of Sydney ’Varsity on
September 13. Circuses and cafe chantant
are thrown in. The Cullen lady opens the
peep-show and the War Chest takes the
cash.
The Mosman V.A.D.’s successful Anzac
Buffet is now in Ash-street, almost behind
the Equitable Building. Note the white lace
blind that runs like a creeper along a brass
rod, the immaculate interior, the almost
preternatural cleanliness of this cosy haven.
The urn hisses on a side counter and there’s
tea and etc. gratis for returned soldiers.
Miss Evans and her girls are in charge. If
you can, send along a few cakes or sand-
wiches to help, and they’ll be eaten with
thanks. A big, colored 1915 impression of
George Rex came recently to this Buffet
through Agent-General Wise. It has this
interest —it shows the effects of the accident
in France.
Miss Badham, head marm of the C. of
E. Girls’ Grammar School, abandoning her
favorite early Greek, lectures in modern
English this week. The subject is the Malay
States or some such sweltering topic. Cash
for the French Maternal Society.
.Regardless of Zeps, a correspondent
writes cheerily from Hove, Sussex: —
Vernon Lorimer, a Sydney artist, is here, but not
staying with us, as our house happened to be full.
So I rang up the hotel for a room for hinn When
we went with him the manageress received him
with open arms. Was he not an Australian and
wounded! The best room in the hotel was his, and
he was her most welcome guest as long as he chose
to stay. I tried to argue the latter point. “Mr.
Lorimer is our guest.” It was useless. He looks
very well, but is still only able to walk slowly
after 10 months in hospital.
Seen the latest spring atrocities? They
are the Hats Eternal, like the now almost-
obsolete-in-war-time silk headgear of the
garden-party beau. Only they are built up
in tulle with “weepers” of the same film
dangling behind. We had the silk imitation
“billy” before the war. But it was nothing
to the undertakery hat of 1916.
Do you remember the Lismore girl Maggie
Chisholm? She won the Emmeline Woolley
scholarship at the Royal College of Music.
Its chief, Hubert Parry, has been lately say-
ing flowery things about the Australian —it
was after a recent college students’ concert.
Another baptism. “O” siege battery, with
Colonel Coxon, R.A.G.A., in charge, is now
the Royal Australian 36th Heavy Artillery.
You can guess where our big guns are boom-
ing.
Women who toil in countless battalion
depots had a shock when they met the first
lot of boxes that have replaced Tin Billy.
Then, with feminine ingenuity, they set to
work to overcome the lack Of space; and
when they reach the Normandy poplars the
shells will be as full of good things as a
small boy after a Christmas party.
Jack Cameron, a former Wagga man, is
now a special correspondent in Switzerland
and Alsace. He “did” part of the S’African
trouble for Reuter.
David Barker, wdiose sketches in the Anzac
Book won’t be forgotten, writes from a new
location. He expects to send home a case
of apples from the Garden of Eden before
the war closes.
The Women’s- Chatriotie—or, maybe, it’s
Patriotic —Club winds up its affairs this
month. Its stern chieftainess, Margaret
Harris, has apparently had enough of the
business. Before breaking itself up the
club, per the aforesaid head, handed the
secretary, Miss Rousell, a silver purse lined
with banknotes.
Ivy, who is now Shilling—the c fell out
some time ago—was one of the most success-
ful flag-vendors in London on Russian Day.
Artist Penleigh Boyd, the tall young man
who won a prize for his Canberra picture, is
seeing service with the Miners’ Corps. Bro-
ther Martin is training for a commission in
the Terriers. Uncle Rupert, a sport who
enlisted a while ago, is now a lootenant.
Did you hear? The Russian Czarina has
asked that the Australian Coat of Arms
may appear on an endowed bed in Petrograd
Hospital. It’s a gift organised by Aus-
tralian women in London, with Mrs. Andy
Fisher at the fore. Think of the wattle,
which now peeps round the corner of our
“Coat,” making an official call on the Great
Bear!
Electrical-engineer Fred Gibbes and a
pretty wife (she used to be Marjorie Hen-
derson) have gone to England with baby
Peter. Father goes as an expert to one of
the munition hives.
All the old Dolly Varden cambric patterns
have come back on the spring cotton frocks.
They suit the wide, floppy skirts, and look as
if they wouldn’t run away in the wash.
Ex-signaller Les Pritchard, now disquali-
fied for further service with the boys, is
turning his time to Australian lilts. There’s
“The Kookaburra’s Evening Song”—both in
music and on a decorative postcard—for
instance.
The United Charities have been throwing
out S.O.S. signals. Now they’ve decided to
have a Charity Day on October 14. The
city will be raided, as usual, by organised
gangs with licenses to bushrange only within
their own areas.
The British Red Cross pays every copper
of the cost of carrying off our outgoing
Y.A.D. young women. The local Red Cross
had a well-manicured finger in the choice,
and there has been the inevitable joy
amongst the Voluntaries who got the nod
before • the outside applicants had a wink.
Still, in scrubbing, washing-up and doing
general utility for severe English nurses the
joy may freeze in the northern winter.
Sound health and a capacity to smile every
time they’re inoculated against something or
other were primary assets.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS Llsi
JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS, SILVERSMITHS.
SETS OF COFFEE CUPS
and AFTERNOON TEA CUPS.
A Very Choice Selection on View at the Company’s Showrooms.
Silver-plated Stand,
With 6 China Coffee Cups and Saucers and 6 Silver-
plated Spoons.
£4 10 0
Sample of “Royal
Doulton” Tea Cup.
These Cujjs and Saucers
are made up in Sets of
Six, with Six Solid Silver
Teaspoons, in a Velvet-
lined Morocco Case, mak-
ing a Beautiful Gift or
Trophy.
Sample of “Coalport”
Tea Cup.
SHOWROOMS
13 Hunter Street
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
HARDY BROTHERS (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON W.
THe New Thornton PicKard
Folding Filina Camera
Entirely BRITISH MADE.
QUARTER-PLATE Size only, 3i x 4}. The Xew
Folding Filma is essentially a daylight-loading
roll-film Camera, talcing any standard make of
film. It. represents the latest development inJow-
priced film Cameras.
SPECIFICATION
CAMERA Body substantially made of mahogany, covered daintily, inside
polished black; mahogany baseboard, black polished, with nickel-plated
metal runners.
FRONT Solid metal U-shaped fork, fitted with rising and falling lens panel,
operated by rack and pinion, broad and solid base, giving vertical rise and
lateral movement.
FINDER Reversible brilliant, showing picture right side up.
SHUTTER Between-lens pattern, giving time, bulb, and variable instantane-
ous exposures, or Compound shutter.
LENS As quoted below.
PRICES
Single Achromatic, with Standard
Shutter £2 12 6
T.-P. Rectoplanat, Aperture f/8,- with
Standard Shutter. . £3 2 6
T.-P. Ruby Anastigmat, Series 111.,
Aperture f/6.5... . £8 12 6
Focussing Screen, with .Hood, for
Plates and three metal slides,
£0 17 6
Single Metal Slides, for plates, each,
£0 2 3
Fully Described and Illustrated in our
Genera l Catalogue. Send for one Now.
lIP
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
HOW TO ENJOY
GRAND OPERA IN YOUR HOME
tt< jNORA
It ROVATORE
"Che
AEOLIAN'
VO CALI ON
r Tlie Perfect Tonal Instrument, enables you to
enjoy Grand Opera in your own home.
Do not purchase a Gramophone without inspecting
the Vocation. Its cost is no more than ordinary
instruments of other makes. Its Superior Tone
and Exclusive Musical and Mechanical Features
will make a direct appeal to music-lovers.
AX UNLIMITED REPERTOIRE
OF GRAND OPERA RECORDS
IS AVAILABLE. THE WORLD’S
GREATEST ARTISTS CAN BE
HEARD WITH A FAITHFUL-
NESS OF PERFORMANCE
EQUALLED ONLY BY THE
LIVING ARTISTS THEMSELVES.
INFORMAL RECITALS DAILY.
During the Grand Opera Season we specially
invite you to hear some gems from your favorite
opera.
VOCALIONS from £l2/10/-
. Write for Catalogue B.
LARGE STOCKS OF THE FAMOUS
“COLUMBIA” DOUBLE GRAND
OPERA RECORDS.
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney.
i
AS ILLUSTRATED.


GAGE HATS for SPRING
V
%
GAGE HATS
are the Correct Expression of Good Style.
Buy Gag* H?t»
TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
r) ETURNED DISABLED SOLDIERS.
V Single Men with Thorough Farm.
Training who are disabled in upper body
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Overseers in Solomon Islands by writ-
ing to ISLAND INSPECTOR.
BURNS, PIIILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Enf.
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes^
msm rases
mmmm m -mjuu
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of lariff and all I
ticulars posted .on application y[ ANAGEK
FOR BAD COUGH USE TAR SYRUP.
HOW TO MAKE IT.
Coughs, colds, catarrh and bronchial
troubles all yield quickly to the concentrated
healing properties of pine forests as found in
ordinary bitrate of tar. The most effective
way in which to use it is to add two ounces
to a syrup made by dissolving half a pound
of sugar in half a pint of hot water. Stir
thoroughly, and pour into a pint bottle. One
or two teaspoonfuls of this tar syrup will
quickly stop tickling coughs, and taken regu-
larly two or three times a day will afford
relief to the most stubborn cough, cold or
case of catarrh. It is also of great value in
the treatment of throat and bronchial trouble
arising from exposure to the damp and cold.
Care should be used to get the bitrate instead
of other forms of tar, which are not to be
recommended for this purpose. —Advt.
Motorists’ Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need ; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us —you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, September 4, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Governor-General’s reception to Wil-
liam Hughes took place just before the
momentous speech, and the visitors, mostly
military and Parliamentary people, stood in
little groups about the drawing-room dis-
cussing the possibilities in hushed _ tones.
It was a line, homely show. Instead of using
the large ballroom the guests were gathered
into a cosy drawing-room and lounge where
there were big wood fires crackling in the
grates and saying “Liar!” to the stormy
wet wind that howled outside like a mob ot
unpaid supers. Supper was laid in two
rooms, so there were no fights for food. The
more important guests went into the inner
temple with the G.-G. couple, and his Ex.
made a speech and drank Hughes’s health in
champagne; but the bobites had to make
shift with champagne cup. Hughes responded
in the fewest possible words.
Lady Helen was dressed regally in ivory
white richnesses lit with diamonds. State
Governor Stanley came alone as his lady was
ill. Mrs. Hughes wore a very smart black,
short-skirted dress. Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke
was in white and silver and supported a
diamond sky-sign. Mrs. Miller also was in
white with a diamond half-crown aloft.
There was a perfect blaze of diamond head-
lights. The women who owned such things
had evidently tried to look as much like
duchesses as possible, so that Hughes would
feel at Home. General Williams was there
with his wife spreading billowy peach-
colored flounces. The General’s khaki tie
was much admired. Admiral Creswell, thin
and tired, had his lady with him in black.
General Stanley looked in for a little while,
then bolted back to the Barracks, over the
road. The big bluestone building wears
blazing windows until weird hours in the
morning these times. Major Mclnerney’s
wife was all fair hair and black, glistening
gown. Dr. and Mrs. Crevelli brought their
daughter-, who has quietly blossomed into a
debutante. She looked dainty in a frock
made of grey satin ribbons run in wheels
around tulle flounces. Mrs. Purves made a
fine show of diamonds on a black gown.
Doris Blackwood wore blue. The party was
so cheerful that everybody stayed till the
last, when the portico steps were jambed
with muffled feminines; whose menfolk
paddled about the muddy drive locating tlieir
streaming cabs and motors. While the last
of the guests were scrambling for their cars
the aides and the house-party womenfolk
came gambolling down the hall towards the
deserted supper-room at a tango gait; but
they pulled up when they saw spectators—
guests who should long before have got clear
away.
The Munro-Ferguson dame went the other
Tuesday to hear Medical Colonel Dick
Stawell talk to the Medical Women’s Guild
(Red Cross, of course) about his five
months at Lemnos. He had a vivid tale to
tell and threw no bouquets at himself or the
Red Cross. Tears came as he told of com-
forts which never arrived and of the hours
of dreadful waiting to see what troops would
come back from the evacuation. Then the
unforgettable scene when the last little band
of war-stained warriors, given up for lost,
landed on the island !
When, later on, Lady Helen told the com-
pany they should be glad that Dr. Barrett
had reduced the Red Cross muddle to order
a falling pin would have sounded like navvies
unloading rails. Perhaps the listeners were
too stunned to beat their gloved hands. Any-
how, they didn’t.
Melba rushed out to the front gate of
Coombe Cottage last Sunday morning and
waved her handkerchief to a Volunteer
Motor Corps excursion of wounded soldiers
passing on its way to Healesville. Some of
the cars saw the signal, drew* up and were
waved in. The lady then started to play
hostess brilliantly, and cameras clicked for
half an hour or so. When the soldier guests
(a hundred or sol explained that they
couldn’t stay for lunch because it was wait-
ing for them at Healesville, she commanded
them all to call in at the Cottage on the
way home. A few hours later they whirred
back again and found she had arranged a
garden-party for them. Carrutliers from
Honolulu, Fritz Hart and the rest of the
week-end house party did the waiting and
Melba poured the tea, shook every hand she
could lay hold of, exhibited the Union Jack
brooch of rubies, diamonds and sapphires
given her by the King, and made a brief
patriotic speech. She couldn’t give them
all autograph photos, so the soldiers drew
lots for three she had lying about the house.
As they were leaving, the lady with the
thrush 'in her throat and Australia in her
heart buttonholed organiser W. M. Pearson
and told him to bring along a hundred more
one day next month.
Lieut. Roderick Urquhart, of the Caramut
polo country, has been killed in action along-
side the Suez Canal. The Urquhart family is
well-rooted in the Western District. Old-
man Roderick has Boonerali station, while
Mrs. Angus Urquhart, an aunt of the Boon-
erah boys, is shepherdess of Moondah, near
Larpent, where the salt lakes are. Rod
Urquhart saw much of the Gallipoli adven-
ture as a private in the Bth Light Horse, and
he has left young brother Keith, now also
somewhere near the Canal, to carry on the
good work.
Colonel Jimmy Burston, who commanded
the 7th Infantry Brigade at the Dardanelles,
is home again after a long stay in London.
The Colonel is no chicken, and the fireside is
the place for him, all right; but he beams
with satisfaction at the remembrance that he
managed to get past the medical censor for
a bit of a whirl. The Burstons, by the way,
were among the last of Melbourne’s gilded
families to give up the old brougham which
retained the odor of social sanctity in favor
of the vehicle which leaves most of its smell
behind it. It seems too incongruous that a
Gallipoli colonel should have had anything
like that in his immediate past.
Young Jack Rogers, son of a reverend of
Wonthaggi, was holding a resident scholar-
ship at Ormond College and doing the
Science Course at the Uni. when the trouble
began. He left as a private with the 6th,
survived Gallipoli, and got a commission. He
wasn’t waiting long in France before the
Military Cross was his. Age 21. Jack s
makes the fourth M.C. won by Ormond.
Harry Ross-Soden, after being rejected a
few times for defective eyesight, has got a
place in the ranks at last. The whole “Head
of the River” crew, except an under-
age pair, was in camp; and now their
coach is there too. The latest of the
Grammar crew to shoulder a rifle was young
Tom Baillieu. And it used to be said, at
the very outset of the war, that “the sports”
were not ready to do their bit! It was really
the lounging “patrons of sport” who had the
cold teet.
Frank Brown, Louis Esson’s overlanding
half-brother, has come back from the North-
ern Territory and is now being measured for
khaki. He will march with the infantry.
And what a typical Billjim he is!
Young Laurie Klingender, one of the
original Anzacs, picked up so well after
being discharged as medically unfit that he
has put away his architect’s plans and
bustled back to camp and his sergeant-
majoring.
Killed in France, Jack Clark, a popular
Anzac who earned his commission in the
trenches. He was a crack shot, owning a
talent derived from his father, Ross Clark,
vice-president of the Victorian Rifle Asso-
ciation.
The Robert Blackwood matron, who helped
her friend Dr. Helen Sexton run a con-
valescent home in Paris, is coming back to
Australia. There being plenty of hospitals
and workers at the other end of the map, she
guesses she can be spared to Red Cross in
Victoria. Her husband is going to Colombo
to meet her, with a brass band and torchlight
procession.
Mrs. Woolcott, organiser of Wattle Day
for the Children’s Charities, went about
town dressed in white cloth, a lingerie hat
and a pleased smile. She was thanked and
pelted with bouquets at various points of the
city; the Overseas Club gave her an ovation
and the Oriental Cafe party fed her with
praise and tea. Mrs. Woolcott organises the
regular monthly “button day,” and lately
has had the extra work of Russian Week and
Wattle Day. It’s hard work, but easier than
scrubbing.
On Wattle Day Mrs. Hallenstein, Mrs.
Felstead and an army of helpers made a
stand at the Grand Hotel and wattled. At
a late hour on Friday night they were still
counting buttons and boxes and trying to see
how much money they’d made.
Three patriotic workers from Kew side,
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme, Mrs. Merritt and Mrs.
Tallis, gave a Cafe Chantant at the Oriental
on Friday in aid of the children’s charities,
and scored as big a house as the place would
hold. Tea-table seats were reserved and
guests were invited for three o’clock. But a
crowd collected at two and persuaded some
misguided official to let them pay five shil-
lings and jump the seats of the more
leisurely three-o’dockers. The subsequent
rows sounded like a railway engine blowing
off steam in front of a cage of cockatoos.
Mrs. Tallis wore white serge, and Mrs.
Merritt commanded in black and white. Mrs.
Geoff, poured tea and looked cool and charm-
ing in muslin with a big blue hat. Nice
girls in party clothes worked like waitresses,
and others squeezed through the crowd with
raffle tickets and flowers from the gardens of
Ivew. Mrs. Richardson composed a small
poem in the morning, and recited it during
the afternoon. Mrs. John Sanderson’s skirts
were made of stiff black silk crinolined out
to white edges; she also wore a feather ruff
round her neck, roses and beads in her hair,
and sang from the dais in the Lounge. The
big-little Thiel girl wore yellow ribbons in
her yellow hair. Lesley Madden was in mud-
colored silk, and handed tea to a select num-
ber. Madge Fabian was corn-colored trom
chin to toe. Dorothy Brunton, m Lißy
muslin things, sang delightfully, then rushed
off like a heroine to keep an appointment
with a dentist. Mrs. Carty_ Salmon had a
tea-party in the crowded' dining-room, ana
Bob Horatius Grieg held the door, uttering
loud auction cries. A Stock Exchange table
and an Athenseum Club table were reserved
for visitors from those haunts. Some of the
men arrived, saw the awful feminine riot,
and bolted for the open air. They sent
cheques later to cover what might have been
extracted from them had they stayed.
Tommy Cochran turned up late wearing a
worried air. Jack Dunlop came with his
bride. She wore navy blue. The Stanley
dame was too ill to attend, but sent a cheque.
“Trally” Foster, the singing youth with
the beautiful drawing-room manners, is to
be married soon to Daisy Donaldson,
daughter of the late Robert Donaldson, of
Kew.
Jack Dunlop is back from a three-months’
honeymoon to America. His little bride,
the daughter of horse-trainer Mark Whitty,
has jet-black hair as well as black eyes, and
her trousseau treasures have the New York
stamp. The pair met Margaret Anglin in
Chicago. The clever actress looked more
striking than ever and had a nice young
husband in attendance. He lias been
acquired since her Australian visit. Mar-
garet employs (Mara Butt’s brother as lead-
ing man —a tall, Jewish-looking Butt with
no very telling personality.
A baronet was buried in Melbourne the
other day, Eugene Francis Mackenzie-
Meikle being the name on the death certi-
ficate. Coming to Australia as a youngster
with his father, Majah Robert Mackenzie-
etc., Eugene earned his living as a clerk and
married a niece of George Coppin. The
death of a cousin gave him the title, but no
money. His son, who, were he not a sen-
sible young man, would now be encouraging
his cobbers to call him Sir ’Ector, is a gar-
dener at Brighton.
Young Carruthers, of Honolulu, is visit-
ing Melba at Coombe Cottage. He is the
young man who did the snaky ballet-dancing
that Vandorian lately wrote about. Melba
met the amusing American in Honolulu, and
he is helping to cheer her through the de-
pression that follows severe influenza. They
motored to Sorrento last week and he
startled the seaside village by narading in a
motor-mask and a hairy, shaggy fur coat
which commenced at his ears and stopped at
his heels.
Billy Murdoch, the Australian pianist who
toured with Kirkby Lunn, has gone to the
war from London as a bandsman of the
Grenadier Guards. When he blows his trom-
bone the shivering Huns will probably mis-
take it for the Last Trump. Before lie left
London the popular young trombone-pianist
was married to Ellen Tuckfield —a young
person with good looks and a voice.
Agnes Caples, of the bronze hair and the
sympathetic soul, has been shining as accom-
panist at the Victorian Vocalists’ “pops.”
She lately also jangled a bunch of Brahms
to show what she could do on her wild,
rhapsodic lonesome. Miss Caples is a Uni.
Conservatorium product, raised from a seed-
ling to full bloom by persevering David
Coutts.
From sister Adelaide :
Saturday’s Cafe Chantant, in which Mrs. Herbert
Rymill and Mrs. Julian Ayers were the prime
movers, showed that Button Days and Patriotic
bridge parties have not yet reached the fluff in our
pockets. From the time Lady Galway said a word
at three or thereabouts till closing time the place
was packed, in spite of vile dust and east winds.
There was a high tea (far higher than anything else
of its kind we’ve ever had, and to which various
parties came on from the Victoria Park races) ;
there were bridge tables and flower stalls and sweet
stalls and jumble stalls, and a Pierrot show and a
concert, and of course an auction.
Novelist Doris Egerton Jones and her mother have
gone for a trip to Honolulu. Doris Egerton was
responsible for . a well-arranged dramatic entertain-
ment in aid of the 11th Field Ambulance Fund a
day or so before she left. Her own comedy drama
-—“The Letter” —was on the programme.
Mrs. Harry Nott is another war bride who has
gone to England. Her doctor-husband left with
the first batch, and was through Gallipoli before
coming back to get married and go to the Front
again.
Of course you won’t believe this, but it’s sworn
to on the Family Bible. A Billjim sniper was perched
in a tree looking for a German sniper, who was
engaged in the brotherly task of looking for him.
They sighted one another at about the same time,
and the German bullet went down the barrel of the
South Australian’s rifle. It’s all quite circum-
stantial. The S. Australian is a younger member
of one of our big squatting families.
Papua’s Judge Herbert is here on a visit to his
sister, Mrs. J. H. Evans. He has been Resident
Justice to our own Fuzzy Wuzzy since 1910, and is
still full of optimism. He was also our Government
Resident in the Northern Territory for five years
before we said the Commonwealth could have it.
There is to be a modest memorial to the late
H. P. Gill, who for nearly 30 years was Principal
of the Adelaide School of Design. At a meeting
at which the Director of Education presided, it was
decided to raise £2OO and with the interest buy a
gold medal to be presented annually to the best
student in technical art.
The anti-German movement goes on merrily, with
M’s.P. Verran and James as its chief inspirers. The
Premier is to introduce a Bill to temporarily dis-
qualify justices of the peace of enemy origin, and a
preliminary meeting has been held to consider the
best means of removing Rep. Dankel from his seat
in the Federal Parliament. Meanwhile, in view of
the steadily-growing number of appeals for patriotic
funds, a Bill has been introduced which will give
the Government power to see that the cash col-
lected goes into the right pocket. Of course we
haven’t done anything wrong; but —well, you know,
dear, I wouldn’t trust some of these other people.
The Red Gross Society’s annual meeting at which
the Governor and Lady Galway spoke—showed a
year of solid work. Altogether the State has con-
tributed £ 50,000-odd to Red Cross Funds since the
war began, and the bushrangings for the past year
were £27,000. Nearly 2000 cases of clothing and
hospital comforts have been shipped to Egypt and
England, besides what has gone to local hospitals
and hospital ships and transports.
The Wattle Day League has had a strenuous week.
On Wednesday it formed a junior branch of itself,
and on Thursday it embarked on a three-days cele-
bration that included a fete at the Exhibition,
literary competitions, tree-planting and speeches.
Amongst the draws at the fete was a facsimile o
001. Light’s cottage—or what was supposed to have
been his cottage —at Thebarton. ;
There is an old St. Peter’s boy amongst Kitchener s
legatees—Capt. G. G. E. Wylly, V. 0., who was edu-
cated at that College and won his V.C. m South
Africa when he was only 19. He was one of
Kitchener’s A.D.C.’s from 1905 till 1909, and is at
present a brigade-major of the Indian Cavalry Divi-
sion, now on active service in France.
After a recent fancy-dress outburst in
the St. Ivilda Town Hall no less than 20
good fur coats were “taken, in mistake and
20 moth-eaten rabbit-skins left in their stead.
The seaside suburb is now filled with wail-
ings and gnashings. Some girls do not
know their own coats when they see them,
coats having been sold in such _ quantities
this winter. But they know which coat it
isn’t when they get the other cat’s leavings.
After the first night of “The Land of Pro-
mise” the Theatre Royal management had a
minion rushing round in search of breakable
crockery. In the third act Madge babiaii,
when ordered by her agricultural husband to
wash-up, dashes the crockery to the flooi,
whereupon it is supposed to smash. On the
first night, however, not a single article
broke. Under the circumstances hubby s
lament that they would now have to get
along with the enamel cups seemed uncalled
for. When threatened with physical violence
unless she obeyed orders to clean up the
mess, Madge carefully swept the unbroken
chinaware into a corner. Really, there is a
cussedness about crockery that makes it
almost human.
Celia Ghiloni’s explorer-husband, Ronald
McPherson, F.R.G.S., has left for the Front.
It’s a habit of his. He has led an exciting
life, and taken part in many arguments.
Celia and he met in India.
“Dot” Brunton —Dorothy of musical
comedy—is busy planning her trip to TJ.S.A.
“See everything while you are young” is her
wise maxim. She is pretty as a picture
“on” and “off,” and is guarded jealously by
her mother, the handsome widow of tall
Scotch scenic-painter Brunton.
Fan Dango Mackay asked 50 -children to
gambol in the ancestral park lands on son
Peter’s fifth birthday. Peter, who was
dressed in a kind of Grenadier Guardsman s
outfit, assisted his mates to scramble on and
off a merry-go-round in the back paddock
and gaze wonderingly at a clown on the
fiont lawn. Daddy gave up a day’s racing
to watch the five-year-old and his guests.
Ida Rentoul Outhwaite’s exhibition of
original black-and-white and water-color
drawings will come to pass in the Fine Art
Room, Centreway, on Thursday, September
14. The G.-G. will open the show at three
o’clock, and it will last 10 days.
Millie Gillespie, who used to be a close
companion of Chatterer Eugenie Stone, is in
France doing hospital work. She is located
at Facombe, in the hospital run by the
Duchess of Guernsey.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


m
1
99
94


Don’t Trifle
with a Cough
take °
m
N®WOSP^
m
Of all Chemists,
1/3. 2/9. 4/6.
There is positively nothing equal to Angier's
Emulsion for coughs, bronchitis, and all
chest affections. Not only does it heal and
strengthen throat and lungs, but it promotes
appetite, aids digestion, and builds up
strength. For upwards of twenty-two years
Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by
the medical profession and used in hospitals.
It is the standard approved remedy for
coughs and lung troubles.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sj'dney.
,al
It
£
m
The TOP NOTCH ScotcK
v > '"Say WHEN Man!!"
ora
1 <
>. /i,
i
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Try The tohunga Maori still
puts the fear of the Atua into John Maori and his
missus. The family back in the bush is just at
susceptible to the medicine-man’s humbug as ever;
even the moneyed chief of Ngati-So-and-So, who owns
a flash motor and sports weird things in pakeba golf-
socks, finds it expedient to pass £5 or so
along to the tribal tohunga now and then. In the
Native Land Court at Wairoa lately one set of claim-
ants to a block of land made complaint to the Judge
that the other fellows had taken an unfair advantage
by approaching a tohunga doing business in the dis-
trict and bribing her—this time the practitioner was
a woman—to influence the Court's judgment in their
favor. The Judge, knowing something of the faith in
tohunga, didn’t laugh at the idea, but assured the
complainants that the witch-woman wasn’t likely to
cause him any sleepless nights. Not so very long
since the old she-wizard would have received a bullet
through her hide from the losers in land litigation
who had reason to suspect she was turning the evil-
eye on their case. The Wairoa tohungas in particular
are noted all over M.L. for the virulence of their
spells and the potency of their black arts. The place
has an evil reputation for witchcraft, so much so that
there is a widely-known saying: “Wairoa tapoko
ran,” which means “Wairoa where-the multitude are
slain.”
“Pick”: Bees at times show perverted
taste in their choice of a suitable nesting place.
At a boundary rider’s hut in Garland Gully, on
the Maclaughlan River, a swarm settled under the
curved sheet of iron that formed the rough chimney
hip. in spite of much discontent when winter
fires melted their combs, they stayed on till a
storm overturned the humpy. Another crazy lot
on the Bibbenluke Plain made the dried carcase of
a very dead bullock their selection, and at Kelso the
interlocking gear of the main Western "(N.S.W.) line
was the trench from which a regiment persistently
bombed the railway officials until a bee-farmer
generalissimoed the army and led them from the
front.
“Barcoo”: Has any Abo. got a reliable
cure for jibbing in a horse? Pouring half a pint of
water into my brute’s ear or dropping a few pebbles
into the same place is taken as a joke, and a belting
on the shin with a hobble-chain is looked on as a
caress. The dodger of graft just lies down. Piling
some of the scenery underneath him and setting it
alight is waste of time. The bonfire is kicked to the
winds of Heaven. I fixed up another jibber, but the
operation was too expensive. I yoked him into the
back portion of the horse team with a trace-chain
firmly fixed round the neck under the jaws hooked
up to the draw-chain to keep the scoundrel right up
to the collar. The cow died.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
“Matilda, is Willie home from school yet?”
"Yes, mum, I think so. The cat’s in the oven!”
HER LUCK WAS OUT.
“Name of Henry Sharpe live here?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Died in hospital this morning—result of accident. Your husband, mum?”
“No, wuss luck!”
“liakau”: The Maori place-name has its
compensations when translated. After sampling a
few thousand I’m inclined to give the fern-leaf
badge for beauty to a North Taranaki hush creek, to
wit, Ivomako-tangi-ata. It means the Eellbird Sing-
ing in the Dawn.
“C.D.” : In his list of Hobart pub-names
Past and present (13. 6/7/’l6), “D.F.” misses the
queerest—the Come In and See Wiggins.
“X.Y.” : Let me inform “Greenhorn" that
if he wishes to tan skins for rug making, etc., and
not for high-class shoe leather, this is how to go
about it. Skins when taken off should be stretched
and pegged out in the shade until dry. They must
then Jje scraped on the flesh side. Place a skin,
flesh side up, over a length of smooth log or pole,
so supported that the operator can sit upon it and
hold the skin between his knees and the log. The
skin thus drawn tight should he scraped with a
, piece of glass or, better still, a table knife with a
straight edge, which has first been sharpened and
then turned over uniformly by carefully running a
piece of smooth steel up and down one side of the
sharpened blade. When scraped clean the skins
should be tacked out in a horizontal position and
sponged over with a solution of lib. of alum and 41b.
of salt in one gallon of water. This should be well
worked into the skins. Repeat the process three
times at intervals of two days and leave the skins
for a month to “age.” To remove stiffness they
must next be “staked,” or “perched.” Draw them
over a half-round blunt blade, securely fastened in
a stump or post, so that the edge of the blade is
about 3ft. above the ground. A worn-out axe with
a rounded face will make an excellent staking blade.
Grind the edge off the axe and round its corners and
fasten it securely, edge upward, in a post or small
stump. The skins must now be “sammed” or
moistened. This is usually done by piling them in
a. cool place, flesh side to flesh side; lay between
them cloth or sacking which pas been soaked in
water and wrung out. Leave thus a few hours. The
operator, standing in front of the “stake,” then
places a skin, flesh side down, upon the blade, and
with a hand on each side of the same he pulls the
skin over the edge of the blade with a see-saw
motion. The whole skin is treated in this way,
working it from side to side first and then from
end to end. The amount of weight to put on will
soon be apparent. If the skin is not yet sufficiently
soft it may be again drawn over the stake in a
diagonal direction, that is, from off hind shank to
neai fore shank, and then crossed with the other
diagonal stroke. It is possible that the staking has
pulled the skins somewhat out of shape, in which
case they can readily be brought back to the correct
form by stretching them over the pole on which
they were scraped, the operator standing astride of
it and stretching where required. Afterwards
remember this: Oil is the life of all tanned leathers.
Very little good leather is worn out in Australia; it
simply perishes for want of oil.
(Continued on page 24J
LOWE AND BEE HOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lowe and Bee Hold were actors twain in the days,
when the wars were young;
They played in the towns of the black-soil plain—
and went to the red, unhung.
They played in the towns of the old stock route, and
in sheds to “houses” fair;
Till thej' worked their way to Narrandera and were
badly stranded there.
Lowe and Bee Hold were man and wife, and their
daughter played Little Nell
And Eva and Willie and all to life—and the rest of
the frauds as well.
A red-headed boy, who had joined the eo., played
almost every thing.
(And the red-headed boy, if you’d like to know, with
a struggling boss, is King!)
They worked their way with a horse and trap that
carried their scenery ;
And mostly trudged in the dust beside with their
dog and their “company.”
(The daughter “hacted Eliza” too, with the dog for
a bloodhound grim—
lie played for the bones of the mutton stew—and
nothing mattered to him.)
Life was a farce and a comedy to the live (for the
horse stood out),
Whether in winter's cold and slush or the dust and
heat of drought;
Drought or flood (for tucker was sure), their wide
world seemed all right
Bo long as they came to a waterhole or could get
the camp fire alight.
Their life was a grizzly tragedy, but none of them
seemed aware,
Till they came, as I said, to Narrandera, and were
badly stranded there.
’Twas the terrible nineteen-fourteen drought, of which
you have all been told,
And things looked black for the sad old horse—and
blue for Lowe and Bee Hold.
They camped that night on the river bank, where
all was bare and dry ;
And the dog crept into the mud to live, and the
horse lay down to die.
The brave Bee Hold knocked up at last—’twas an old
attack agen—-
And the girl “took sick” and was queer in her head
and, my oath! They acted then!
Then Lowe stood up in the camp and clutched at his
long, drought-faded hair;
He thrust his hands at the blazing stars, but he
read no answer there.
And Bee sat down on the blanket roll, and never a
word she spoke;
But the red-headed boy went into town to hunt for a
doctor bloke.
A doctor came, and he did what he could—though
he’d been the round of the bars.
(He left some silver upon a stump that shone in
the light of the stars.)
But Lowe broke down, and he said to his wife:
“Now, God help you and me!
There’s only enough for the medicine, and we’re out
of tucker, Bee.”
But a teamster passed in the dawning hour who had
nearly run his course,
And he slung the party a fifty-four and some bran
for the poor old horse!
“I must lighten me load for the pinch a bit, for me
leader’s nearly dead ;
I remember seein’ you actin’ blokes somewheres up
North,” he said.
Then a bushman came on a swerving horse with a
dismal cattle pup—
He stood in the shade of the river gums and he
loudly asked “What’s up ?”
He forced a couple of notes on Lowe, and he shortly
said, “Good day!”
And vanished into the red dust-storm on his hot,
blasphe-mous way.
They had plenty of baking powder left; and Lowe
stood up agen—
He’d have made a hit upon any stage had he acted
as he did then !
“Now, hang the world and the universe! And
bless our country, Bee;
Here is enough for the paper man and to rent the
hall!” cried he.
He wrote all day and he wrote all night by the
light of the hurricane lamp;
And the four rehearsed till they scared the blacks
from that debil-debil camp !
The girl was quite recovered by this and the red-
headed boy in form;
And they played three nights at Narrandera and they
took the town by storm!
They thrived in the towns of the red-soil plains,
and, later on, none could guess
In city suburbs—and cities, too—the reason of their
success.
But you’ll hear of them yet on the London boards.
when the war is past and by,
In their Great Australian Dramatic Play: “When
the Murrumbidgee’s Dry.”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


<mwm
1.
m
Now is the
Time to Buy
a Panama at
MURDOCH’S
What’s the use of waiting'
until the hot season is half
throngh wliy not get
your Panama now and have
a full season’s service?
We have just landed a
special shipment of high-
grade Panamas —latest
shapes and brim widths —
finely plaited and nice
creamy bleach —splendid
hats for defence against
Old Sol’s attentions, and
remarkable values at
Murdoch’s low prices :
126, 15j6,
18|6, 21|-
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Call and try on your size,
or write Desk R.
Murdoch’s
in Park Street Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
99
££
Where the Good Hats are.
“A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.”
dm
<3F f'-af'
■isitti
;
... , ,
■
.
iSli
NELSON’S SPECIAL OFFER
Without doubt the Best Value ever ottered In Australia.
JUST THINK!
A Modern Iceless Interior, built on theisame linesas the Beautiful i cel |J
illustrated above. Complete in every detail. Six No-dnp Syrup l umps, six
Porcelain Jars, Ice Cream Cabinet, latest patent Spray Glass Masher, Wash-up
Compartment, Spoon Holder, Disher Holder, Towel Rail, Waste Chute. Set of
special 1 Soda-water Coolers, etc., etc. The whole constructed of the very best
material and has our guarantee to back it up.
The Bargain Prici is £.50.
Prepare for the fast-approaching season by installing our Special Interiors NOW.
We carry the largest and most varied Stock of Soda Fountain Material in
Australia'. The quality of our Goods is high, pur price the best.
Write us for Quotations for Complete Outfits.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
(The House of Quality), 219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE: MOCiCi, Preston House,
ADELAIDE: SILAS H. MARTIN, The ‘
PERTH: A. B. HADDON, Hay Street.
Queen Street.
Ritz” Soda Fountains, 84a King William Street.
MITCHELL SlX— The Master Car.
,
wyi
ma
: .r
: fmg a M£:
HH
3»s;
w
mm
HI
Costs in America nearly half as much again as Cars that sell here at about the same price
Master of any situation, whether that situation demands sustained
Racing Speed, downright exertion, or the smoothest, softest actioi .
repeat with greater emphasis than ever, before that the Mltchell 1S THE
MASTER SIX, AND WE ARE OPEN 10 PROVE IT. , st
Eiehtv Years of Engineering Practice, being one of the three largest
Motor Factories in the U.S.A., the first Six-Cylinder Makers in the world,
and the very first in Automobile Trade, this vast experience and equip-
ment have enabled the Mitchell Co. to leave all other cars behind and to
hnild to-dav The Master Six at a moderate price.
The Mitchell is built entirely in the Mitchell Company’s huge 45-acie
Factory. It is not an assembled car. ' ■ , th
We do not know, nor do our customers, what it is to have tl e
slightest trouble with a Mitchell.
Will any other importer of a Six-Cylinder American Car guarantee to
take a full load over the Blue Mountains and back on high gear/
We guarantee this on the Mitchell. _
Ask any other importer if his Six has done 26% miles per Gallon o
Benzine under official observation. The Mitchell has. , .
See if any other Six has Magneto Ignition. The Mitchell has the
famous Simms (late Simms Bosch). Battery make*rs admit that their
batteries a“ only good (or from 12 to 18 months, hot battery trouble
nftpn starts B,t oncG, snd CGrtciinly bGforc lon§.
° 125-inch wheel base, long compensating Cantilever springs, guaran-
teed lighting and starting system, power tyre pump, magneto igpition,
one-man khaki hood, jiffy-side curtains, beautiful comfortable body, full
equipment.
YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF TO SEE THE MITCHELL BEFORE DECIDING.
Agents for New South Wales & Queensland: Messrs. F. H. GORDON & CO., 140 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents for Victoria and Tasmania: Messrs. J. A. ITUNRO & CO., 493 Elizabeth St., Tlelbourne, ic ona.
Agents for Western Australia: Messrs. BRADLEY & WILLIAMS, 853=857 Hay St., Perth.
South Australia territory open-Appi, to Mesar.. ORCHARD RALPH & CO.. Victoria Stmt. Adelaide
New Zealand A £ «nU = North R “TScH°fetd.unih.


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Food enjoyed is
Food wore nourishing.
THRIFTY HOUSEWIVES
can make every scrap
a .dainty morsel with
Bisto. Bisto makes
the best of gravy and
stews—wholesome
and delicious.
All Grocers. Tn Tins. Made by CHREBOS, LTD.
makes
the simplest fare
most appetising.
m
m
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
Underwear
Is British through and through —the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods.
New ••Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers:
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 66 9
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“S.” : Great Britain easily beats Australia
in the matter of odd pub-names; the fashion for
queerness was gradually dying out when this coun-
try started. Some still in existence there: The Trip
to Jerusalem (Nottingham), Adam and Eve (Lin-
coln), Man Loaded with Mischief (Cambridge),
Silent Woman (Buxton), and Naked Man (York-
shire). In London are The Coal-hole, Dirty Dick’s,
Sun in the Sands, Jack Straw’s Castle, World Turned
Upside-down, Bag of Nails, and Rent-Day. Animal
jingles are much in favor: Old Fox with His Teeth
Drawn, Goose and Gridiron, Goat and Compasses
(said to be a corruption of “God encompassetli us”),
Cow and Snuffers, Cat and Bagpipes, Goat in Boots,
Ass in a Bandbox, and Dog in a Doublet. First In
and Last Out (or First and Last) is a common sign;
one house gets the same idea with Cradle and
Coffin. The shortest-.on record is “Q,” at Stalybridge
in Lancashire.
The Adelaide Register (28/7/’IG) has
found the champion old seadog. It was the maseotte
of the coasting steamer Kooyong, but last March
overstayed its shore-leave in Newcastle (N.S.W.) and
missed its ship. So it signed on to the Winfield,
which in mid-July put in to Port Adelaide ; and the
faithful hound, while going up the river, recognised
the Kooyong at the wharf, and raised Cain until it
was allowed to tranship. “The officers and men
believe that the animal has been in practically every
port in Australia during the last four months, hunt-
ing up the Kooyong.”
“EcTdyson”: Loughran was a martyr to
brain-storm. There might be varying causes, but the
effect was always the same —Cornelius started to
clean out the house. It was a five-roomed house,
with a skillion kitchen, and the furniture took a bit
of shifting; but Loughran always did it. He com-
menced with the room in which he happened to be,
and everything that could be thrown out of the
window went out of the window; the larger articles
were rushed out of doors and hurled into the garden.
Cornelius roared and orated all the while. So long
as he could find words in which to express himself, he
was content with articulate speech; but when lan-
guage failed him he set up a leonine roaring. Before
he was through with three rooms he was in a lather
of perspiration, bloody from cuts and scratches, and
woefully bruised from battering himself against walls
and falling under the more unwieldy objects, especi-
ally Mrs. Loughran’s wardrobe. It was an old-
fashioned wardrobe, all in one piece, as hard as
an iron cage and almost as heavy. The house
fairly heaved during Corny’s wrestlings with that
wardrobe; but in the end it came tumbling end over
end down the four stone steps from the front door,
and Loughran sent a jagged lightning-flash of lan-
guage after it. When at length the house was
emptied, it was Cornelius’s custom to retire to the
stable. After suffering a recovery he would reappear
in a contrite frame of mind, and would say to the
mild Mrs. Loughran: “There ye ar-re! Ar-re ye
contint, ma’am? A fine mess yiv made iv me home
HOPING FOR THE BEST.
ARTIST : “It’s jolly decent of you, but I can’t
make it out. A few weeks ago you
wouldn’t look at a thing of mine, and
now you want to buy all I’ve got.”
DEALER: “Vell, my poy, if anydinks vas to
’appen to you they might be vorth some-
dinks. So ven I ’eard you 'ad enlisted,
'e’s a goot poy,’ I says, an’ — veil, I
decided to take der risk.”
wid the tongue ye have.” After one demonstration
I said to Cornelius: “Has the missus a bad temper,
then?” “Temper!” he replied. “Temper! Look
fer yersilf. ’Tis ten times I’ve bruck up me home
wid her tantrums.”
MOST DILATORY.
THE LAW: “Come along with me, now. Ye can't lie here."
REGA; OMEBROATE: “Where yeh been? I been waitin’ for yeh thish hour!”
“Quidam”: Re “flies” on bag humpies
(B. 3/8/’l6). There was once a young architect
who had put in a good while camping in tents in
Bananaland. Being later on in a position where the
designing of abattoirs for another State was required
of him, he remembered the difference between a tent
with a fly and a tent without one, and, in view of
the advantage of a low temperature in such a build-
ing, he worked a double roof into his design. When
his superior inspected the plan he was inclined to
approve, but shied at the double roof. “The idea,
Mr. Smith,” he remarked, “I am personally rather
struck with; but we must remember that we are the
targets of much criticism, and must be exceedingly
careful of attempting any questionable innovation.
Have you any precedent to guide you in respect to
this double roof ?” It was then that Mr. Smith rose
magnificently to the occasion and explained that the
idea was in vogue at nearly all the meatworks in
Queensland, being known as the “tent and fly roof.”
Though he didn’t explain that it was only in vogue
at the men’s camps, this reference settled the matter,
the design was adopted, and the roof has since evoked
the admiration of all expert visitors, thereby bring-
ing much kudos to Mr. Smith.
* * * *
“Ses” : A familiar figure for many years
on Tomki station, Richmond River (N.S.W.), was an
old gin without feet, who used to move about on her
hands and leg knuckles. A wronged husband was
the ingenious author of her impediment. “My word!”
he said, as he knocked her down at the camp by way
of a welcome home, “I make you can’t run away.”
Then he chopped off both her feet with a tomahawk.
Farther up the river was another erring sister, who
used to move about in a sitting position. Jaeky had
put an end to her flirting and meandering by ham-
stringing her.
* * * *
“Wandi”: The blackfellow’s bone-pointer
was composed of three pieces. The pointer ( kunga )
was a thin bone five or six inches long, sharp at
one end and corded to a much stouter bone, or cup,
called mangani. On the Clarence River (N.S.W.)
it was the custom for an old man to sit on the
grave of deceased night after night till he saw the
ghost of the murderer. The apparition was called
churrigurri or coombooia. The aged party always
saw the spook, and from information received the
warriors visited the offending tribe and demanded the
life of accused to celebrate the occasion. In parts
of Westralia the corpse was placed in a tree to
decompose. When matter began to drip from it
the watchers noted the way it ran on the ground.
In that direction, in full war panoply, they travelled
until they dropped across a member of another
tribe, no matter who the individual or which tribe.
And, 10, they smote him fatally.
“The Reefer”: Sandy invited us out to
the copper lode he was prospecting along the Laloki
(Papua), and here’s the menu he spread for us: —
SOUP.
Scrub Turkey and Goura Pigeon.
ENTREE.
Wallaby Sweetbread and Liver.
FISH.
Mountain Trout.
JOINT.
Roast Wild Pig and Pineapple Chutney.
VEGETABLES.
Baked Yams, Sweet Potatoes, Pumpkin, Spinach.
FRUITS AND NUTS.
Paw-paw, Pineapple, Custard Apple, Mangoes, Sour
Sop, Guavas, Granadillas and Bananas. Okari Nuts.
Everything except salt, sugar and pepper was
either got by his “shooting boy” (wages 10s. per
month) or bought from neighboring villages. We
did the fair thing by Sandy and made beasts of
ourselves.
* * * *
“L.N.”: Some Abo. entered an Austra-
lian moth recently for the heavyweight competition.
Let him stand down while I exhibit one caught at
Sogeri (Papua). A. S. Meek, who has spent a
strenuous lifetime hunting moths, beetles, birds,
butterflies and such wild beasts for Lionel Roths-
child, says it’s the biggest he knows, so it ought
to win. I’ve forgotten what it weighed, but it
was fourteen inches from stem to stern. Incident-
ally let me mention that Walter Goodfellow,
naturalist collector for the British Museum and
many others, states that anyone who possesses a
lamp and the inclination could earn onward from ,
£2OO a year simply by lighting up every night
during the Sogeri moth season and selling the visit-
ors in America and Europe.
* *' * *
“Gulnare”: “Alamon” (B. S/S/’l6) wants
to know the greatest number of pups a kangaroo
bitch has delivered at once, and quotes 12 as pheno-
menal. We had a greyhound bitch here (Gulnare)
that holds a S. Aus., if not a world’s, record. This
prolific lady, named Lallie, by Blackberry ex For-
lorn Hope, produced a litter of 13 on September 8,
1910 ; 14 on May 3, 1911; and 10 on November 20,
1911 —37 puppies in a little over 14 months. These
litters were all registered.
* * * *
“Rag”: Had several unpleasant experi-
ences on the arid W.A. deserts until I discovered that
thirst was relieved by chewing the leaves of salt-
bush. Though these leaves taste undeniably saline,
the salivation they promote keeps one’s mouth from
parching and the tongue from swelling. Dunno how
long a man could do without water if he had saltbush
to chew, but longer than some of him deserves.
“Hay”: I once camped on a sand-ridge
out west of Darling (N.S.W.) just after a thunder-
storm and a slight fall of rain. Not long after dark
my mate lit his pipe, and by the light of the match
saw something moving on his blankets. When we
had made a blaze with dry saltbush we discovered
the ground to be literally alive with scorpions, from
very small ones to hard-shell warriors six inches
long. We left with alacrity for a lower and less-
crowded locality. The sandhills in this part are
riddled with the little crescent-shaped burrows of
these poisonous-looking crustaceans, but I have never
heard of any serious results from stings. Like the
black grub, or spitfire, that hangs in bunches on the
young gum suckers, scorpions may be regarded as
more ugly than dangerous. To my mind the worst
trouble the camper has to contend with is the ordi-
nary black ant. It is a common experience to be
over-run by these pests in the middle of the night
and elsewhere. Then the only plan is to arise
and go on your way rejoicing. When possible it i£
best to camp at a spot upon which the sun has been
shining, preferably loose sand.
“E.V.C.”: For good saddle horses give
me the sort they breed around the Monaro (N.S.W.).
Two years ago 1 made a trip from Mount Bimberi to
Queanbeyan, 50 miles, in nine hours on an eight-year-
old. Twenty-five miles of the passage is a bridle-
track, and the pony had to be led over parts of
it. Crossing what they call the “hills” the little
fellow’s tail was hanging over my shoulder at times.
But that’s nothing. Any horse‘that can’t do as well
or better thereabouts is sold to the Defence Depart-
ment ; at least, that’s what they were doing with the
weeds when I left.
* * * *
“SiT.S.”: James A. Ross, who is about as
near as Australia has got to a William Blake? writes
some wild stuff, but he must be credited with one
neat idea of local application. He takes the old
Riddle of the Sphinx: What animal is it that goes
on four feet in the morning, two feet in the after-
noon and three in the evening? “Man,” said
Oedipus: going on all-fours as a child, upright in
his prime, and using a staff in old age. Not so,
says J. A. Ross. “An old-man kangaroo! In the
morning he goes down on all-fours for his breakfast;
in the afternoon he goes for a run on two legs; and
in the evening he comes home to his doe with his
tail down.”
* ♦ * *
“Tasman”: If an inhabitant of Hobart
saw a whale in the Derwent now he would resolve
to next time take more soda with it; but in the
early days whales were about as common at that
address as parsons. The settlers used to have a
regular season for whale-hunting, much as they now
turn out to slaughter the ’roo or wattle-bird, and
several hundreds were bagged—or netted— in the
course of the year. In 1816 the crew of a ship
called the Ann got busy and slaughtered 30 of the
creatures in one untidy heap.
* * * *
“Groper”: Groperland crow is a very
scarce item on the landscape until something dies.
Had a mare once that died suddenly. Put her in
the loose box, and a few minutes later she was
defunct. Hadn’t seen a crow for months, but half
an hour after the mare’s death one came flying out
of the bush and settled on a tree close handy. He
couldn’t even see the carcase, but some instinct
must, have told him it was there. I cremated two
carcases, one being that of a crow.
THE CHALLENGE.
SENTRY: “’Alt! ’Oo goes there?”
OFFICER : “Officers returning to duty.”
SENTRY: “Well — er—op up one of yes and
let’s see if you're dinkum.”
“Te Babarantiko”: Talk about oysters!
You ought to sample those of the middle south coast
of New Britain. There, in certain districts, they
grow on the mangrove roots to an enormous size.
I have seen them as large as a dessert plate and
as thick through as my fist. The fish itself is
abnormally fat and is greedily consumed by epi-
cures in Rabaul when obtainable. One can’t go
out and pick the fruit as one pleases; it must be
bought from the local man-eating savages, who own
their- own oyster gardens. The Rabaul connoisseurs
obtain their weakness from a too-occasional schooner.


1
l
„ » .J
-e
f
6 *e<-<oV t* c
\\ V>° c o^°l\\c^
mm
»\* c
r' fV v et X<s»' e
>' oi
o
c o,
c 'V!^e
e *f-
i^iti e d ° nxr eti!
st *«</*/ 11 e Q ttle
th? ct ed ,fi s >
? ,r '°iZi"'
Zf £!•"
>a <-JZ
u ct e y >n
m
mm
m
m
t e-
c°
cP
V C - l*.
e
t
sX av
P^ x se^ S
L ft QtV
m
m
is???****
The Starter io
easily s,rn Pl® in de-
*l ar . ts motor tu° essihl e and
No e- ears h ; r ° usrh silent
No? s ;? e r sh "i«h
est ex Ce p t wS« St> and at
the motor. when cranking
m
The Stumer MT
unit is *i”= ’“:” i2n d. It rep-
c° mp VearVof“stud, .and
resents J*®£_ the evolution of
thousands of teats and trials.
Here is your proof
of QUALITY—
It doesn't matter a great deal whether you base your
judgment of a Studebaker car on the wonderful driv-
ing power of its engine, its exceptional roominess, or
the luxury of its elegantly furnished body —you can
not but be impressed with the quality that presents
itself in every detail. Note, if you will, the self-evident
quality, the perfection of finish, the extreme simplicity
of design shown in the illustrations here.
This is typical of Studebaker ideals and Studebaker
manufacturing. And the reason is simply the wonder-
ful Studebaker manufacturing facilities and resources
coupled with 64 years of experience that makes it
possible to produce a quality car at a reasonable price.
Power, Durability, Comfort and Economy form a
quality quartet that only Studebaker experience and
quantity production can effect.
See the latest Studebaker models on exhibition in our
show rooms.
State Importers for Australasia
VICTORIA—TURNER BROS., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—ARMSTRONG CYCLE <fc MOTOR AGENCY, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Messrs. T. J. RICHARDS & SONS LIMITED, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—W. H. GAH AG AN, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND—ADAMS LIMITED, Christchurch.
General Distributors
for Australasia—
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
177 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY .


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHES i than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the EEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE'S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, as it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST—a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
V/
fell A
;
«»
ItlVMr iifllratiwaiJiiffA
i l vll/Sat
i 11
) C Kirxc S<-Ly
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to —
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Branch Offices —
Sydney. N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
14,
Automatic Telephones (Australasia),
Ltd., formed in Sydney with a goodwill of
£5OOO to introduce the Strowger and Keith
patents to Australasia :
Towards Deficit.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. £5,000
1912.. £3 ' £3 4,997
1913.. 507 567 4,430
1914.. 4301 74 p.c. = £3750 Oil 3,819
Co. reconstructed goodwill written up £7500 11,319
1915.. 0319 { gg; 111 P ;,°-“ 1250°} ~ 12 ’ 500
June,
1910.. 7170 8 p.c. = 6250 920 11,580
This is a rather mixed affair. Its history is
something like this :
(1) The alert Standard-'Waygood people got the
Australasian agency for the Automatic Electric Co.
of Chicago.
(2) Agency sold to Automatic Telephones (Aus-
tralasia) Ltd. for 100,000 deferred shares of Is. each.
(3) The Sydney Stock Exchange wouldn’t list the
eo. so long as the venomous deferred shares existed.
The co. therefore reconstructed. Previously the
100,000 deferred shares meant £5OOO of goodwill.
On reconstruction the 100,000 ordinary shares paid
to 10s. got 50,000 paid to £1 and the 100,000
deferreds got 12,500 ordinaries, also full paid. That
put up the capital from £55,000 to £62,500 and
added £7500 to goodwill.
The co. is still merely an agent for the
Chicago co.; and though that makes its
future beyond the unspecified life of the
agency uncertain, it leaves the assets fairly
liquid. The capital is £62,500; this is re-
presented by goodwill, £12,500 ; cash (includ-
ing money deposited with the principal co.
as payment in advance), £49,351; and a few
sundries. No contracts have been placed
with the Government for new exchanges
since the war started; but as far as the in-
stallations have gone, and making allowances
for preliminary troubles, the co. is justified
in claiming that the “automatics” have been
a success —from the point of view of the
user, at any rate.
* * * *
The Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Bris-
bane) :—•
Dividends and Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves.
1905.. £2,307 Nil £l,OOO £5,528
1906.. 800 Nil 5,528 800
1907.. 1,747 24 p.c. =£535 1,012 1,000
1908.. 2,764 5 „ „ 1331 1,433 1,000
1909.. 4,477 54 „ ~1586 2,891 1,000
1910. . 6,585 64 „ „ '2248 4,337 1.000
1911.. 4,274 6 „ ~ 2761 1,513 1,000
1912.. 11,305 74 „ „ 3459 2,846 6,000
1913.. 9,710 8 „ ~ 4920 4,790 6,000
1914.. 15,405 9 „ „ 5535 3,870 12,000
1915.. 16,721 10 „ „ 6150 10,571 12,000
Reserve Funds capitalised, £9500. . 2,500
(Contingency Reserves —shown in table as written off
—capitalised, £19,389)
1916.. 11,055 9 p.c. = 6719 1,336 5,500
Ten years ■ ago the capital was £16,025.
They were the days of repentance when
Edwin Stooke, now’ professional head and
front of the N. S. Wales Liquor party, was
manager and secretary. The co. had been
almost overwhelmed by its debts; but the
shareholders managed to hang on to the
equity of redemption. Then Tom Welsby,
G. C. Willcocks and a few other live men
got hold of it; and the co.’s big competitor,
suffering a little perhaps from swelled head,
under-rated its Bulimba adversary. After
that it had no difficulty in getting what
money it wanted; and its tiny capital of
£16,025 w 7 as built up to £60,000. All this
time it had been socking away surplus profit
(it took very little to pay a dividend on its
severely written down capital) ; and finally
a year or so ago, probably seeing the un-
wisdom of paying more than a 10 p.c. div.,
yet having a good deal more than 10 p.c.
to distribute, it decided to capitalise a fair
whack not only of the formal reserves but
of the fund which had been provided against
contingencies. So the capital now is
£88,589 in 266,666 shares of 6s. Sd. each;
and there are still 33,334 in reserve. Dur-
ing those hard years of shifting the dead
horse the co. learned its lesson : it didn’t incur
any more debt to buy unnecessary things, and
to this day it owns only one pub. Including
all trade debts its liabilities amount
to no more than £23,591; and apart
from freeholds, pub and plant (£56,058),
it has £68,508 worth of assets, half
book debts and half stock and other
liquid assets. The future, no doubt,
has unpleasant things in store for this as
well as other brewing cos. The pub is get-
ting a little bit of the disfavor it has earned.
But this co. will perhaps suffer less than
most because (1) it has put very little of its
capital into pub property; and (2) it has
developed the bottle trade.
* * * *
Equity Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Melbourne) ;
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1909.. £2170 12 p.c. =£lsoo £670 £24,583
Dee., 1909.. 3214 10 „ „ 1250 1964 26,547
June, 1910.. 2589 10 ~ „ 1250 1339 27,886
‘Dec., 1910.. 2279 10 „ „ 1250 1029 28,915
June, 1911.. 1832 10 „ „ 1250 582 29,497
Dee., 1911.. 1869 10 „ „ 1250 619 30,116
June, 1912.. 2646 10 „ „ 1250 1396 31,512
Dec., 1912.. 5528 30 „ „ 3750 1778 33,290
June, 1913.. 3755 20 „ „ 2500 1255 34,545
Dec., 1913.. 5518 20 „ „ 2500 3018 37,563
June, 1914.. 4890 20 „ „ 2500 2390 39,953
Dec., 1914.. 5005 20 „ „ 2500 2505 42,458
June, 1915. . 2310 20 „ „ 2500 - 42,268
Dec., 1915.. 6111 20 „ „ 2500 3611 45,879
June, 1916.. 3392 20 „ „ 2500 892 46,771
But there’s something coming besides a 20
p.c. dividend. Possibly because 20 p.c. divs.
are unhealthy these days the directors are
seeking authority to double the capital by
the transfer of £25,000 from reserves; and
they are over-modest in not making it
£37.500. The co., which has a strong legal
backing—two K.C.’s and an ex-Attorney-
General are on the Board —is not communi-
cative, and this paper has no idea how the
business has grown. But it can follow the
assets: —•
June, ’O6. Dec., T 5. June, ’l6.
Liquid assets . . £19,694 £40,091 £43,058
Other assets .. 25,542 33,599 31,803
Liabilities .. 78 Nil Nil
It’s an amazing result from a business with
a paid capital of only £25,000: the co. has
in 10 years collected liquid assets within a
few pounds of the total of the capital. These
liquid assets are mostly Board of Works Si
p.c. debentures, written down so as to yield
about 3f p.c. That is not enough, of course;
but it really doesn’t matter seeing that the
debentures are to be paid at par on
maturity.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Foe”: Justice IJeydon’s kick at the
conception of the Boss as "a bloated,
brutal, low-browed baboon, champing in
his dripping jaws the bodies of poorly-
clad but very noble-looking artisans,”
reminds me of my mild-looking friend
who is starting an engineering business
and isn’t afraid of helping with the dirty
work. Lately he gave a carter a hand to
unload. When the job was done, the carter
mopped his brow and growled : “It’s a pity
the (censored) you’re graftin’ your guts out
for isn’t here to shift his (censored) iron
himself!” The mild young man let him go
without breaking the news that he was the
bloated baboon.
* * •* »
Australian timber promises to find a market
this summer in an unexpected quarter. So
far its use in walking-sticks and the like has
been mostly to fill a demand for presentations
to vice-royalty or as gifts for returned sol-
diers. Now, however, certain Melbourne
frill-shops are advertising “new season’s sun-
shades” with handles in Australian woods,
such as black wood, Queensland silky-oak and
maple and Tasmanian beech. Australia is
beginning to suspect that what is good enough
to give to his Imported Nibs ought to be
good enough for this country’s own use.
* * * *
“.T.A.G.”: Who’s got all the information
concerning the making of motor-spirit from
apples? I have a big wastage of the fruit
and always a shortage of benzine, so every-
thing’s handy except the recipe.
* * * *
Here, make some adjustments in your live-
stock records. At Addington (M.L.) the
other day two bullocks brought £65 each;
and a Tamworth sow brought £2O (the lady
was estimated to go over 6001 b. of pork). F.
Bull topped the market with his Shropshire-
cross wethers, and his records now stand:
1912, £8; 1913, £l4 10s.; 1914, £l5; 1915,
£7 10s.; and 1916, £l4 15s.
* * * *
“Adlik” : In High-street the principal sta-
tioner’s shop-window is “dressed” with
Bavarian pencils. Last week my wife
bought, in the same thoroughfare, a pair of
woollen gloves for one of the youngsters. It
was the youngster who found a ticket inside
with the legend : “Made in Austria” on it.
Nearby a big drapery store makes no bones
about retailing several “lines” bearing the
mark of the linn beast. Yet Hughes on
June 22 told the duchesses in London :
In Australia you cannot go into a single shop,
whether a drug store, a draper’s, or anywhere else,
and buy anything either made in Germany or made
in any country for the benefit of Germany.
He must have meant on Sundays. But
what a little humbug he is!
X. S. Wales beekeepers had a bad time
last year when whole apiaries were wiped out.
Bush fires and similar happenings were
.partly responsible, but foul-brood, which is
the most serious bee-complaint, was a big
cause. So the industry has secured legisla-
tion which requires the man who wants to
keep bees, even as pets, to take out a license
just the same as a dogowner or a book-
maker. Inspection of stocks is the object.
About the only dangerous persons who
haven’t got to take out a license these days
are the poet and the burglar.
* * * *
From the Northern Territory Times
(13/7/T6) :
Notice.— The Public are notified that the business
of mineral-water, and ice manufacturer, blacksmith,
wheelwright and undertaker, formerly carried on for
many years by Mr. P. G. A. Williams at Mitchell
Street, has been sold as a going concern. .. .Cus-
tomers are still assured of prompt and careful atten-
tion and good workmanship.
These be strenuous times, brethren.
* * * *
“Klaxon” : Is there any serious objection
to Australians making their own flags? A
newsagent lately showed me a parcel of Aus-
tralian flags manufactured in Japan, and
explained that they were even better and
cheaper than those he used to import from
Hamburg.
* * * *
According to Joynton Smith “goodwill” is
a will o’ the wisp which has lured a train-
load of N. S. Wales Bungs into the bog.
Men who had saved a bit bought pubs, pay-
ing perhaps £lOO for furniture and owing
£9OO for the shadow. Now with the clock
chopping five of the best trading hours off,
the shadow has faded though the debt re-
mains. A deputation of saddened Bungs
asked Holman for a moratorium until the
closing hour is put back and the late drunk
can reel to the rescue. But will the clock
ever be put back?
* * * *
During 1914, 1915 and half of 1916 there
were, in N. S. Wales, 72 raids on gambling
dens, 34 of them being Chow emporiums.
There _ were 1083 prosecutions, but the 533
Celestials did not pan out as well in fines
as the white men. Only £1298 out of the
total of £3(140 was shaken out of John. Ma
doesn’t -search for her parasites with any
great energy; considering the magnitude of
the gambling business the catch is a very
suspicious performance.
* * * *
“Y.Z.” : Fed o’ the Barrow tells me he
is “dead set on this ’ere early-closin’ move.
Square ’n’ all, it’s the fair dinkum thing.
What good’s pubs t’ the country ? Makes me
dead sick t’ see a lad rollin’ ’ome to his
missus, bulgin’ with beer. Ldt him take his
boose ’ome like a gent, in the bottle, ’n’ then
tiie missus can get her helpin’.”
“F.N.T.”: As to the remarks by “Deep
Fern” on the alleged uselessness of bracken
(B. 20/7/T6), a statement was lately made
by James Dickason, a Vie. Western District
timber-mill manager, that the bracken which
grows in the Otway Forest “can be pulped
and made into brown and other colored
paper.” The matter seems worth looking
into. Hasn’t Hughes got a scientific body
with a high-sounding title dedicated to prac-
tical research work? AVhat’s it doing?
* * * *
“Bram” : In the ’so’s there stood in
Campbell-street, Sydney, a pub named The
Bee Hive. Its sign was a hive with these
lines underneath :
But that was in the days before the wowse.
* * * *
“Glen” : Adamson, of the Vie. Public
Works, is giving a helping hand to his pal
Livingston, of the Forests. Adamson has
been ordering hardwood weatherboards from
the Government seasoning-kilns at Newport
for use in new public buildings; and hard-
wood linings are also to be used. Further,
the new University buildings are to be liard-
wooded wherever possible, while the depart-
mental offices will be fitted and furnished
with local timber as opportunity offers.
It is a promising state of affairs. Still, as
Mcßobert, of Bendigo, pointed out at the
recent Farmers’ Convention, the conserva-
tion and use of local timbers won’t be on a
proper basis so long as the matter remains
in charge of transitory Ministers.
* * * *
When a citizen’s conscience bites him
because 20 years ago he did the income tax
collector out of 10s. and he eases it by
making restitution, he does not usually
concern himself about the interest he has
gathered in on the 10s. One man in the
Commonwealth, who lives in Melbourne
nowadays, is, however, troubled with a
sharper tooth than ordinary, wherefore the
other day the Collector of Customs got the
following letter from him: “Please receive
the enclosed postal note for 205., being a
debt, with interest, incurred about 20 years
ago _by saying Yes instead of No to an
official query.—Yours, etc., Repentant
Liar.”
* * * »
The Stawell (Yic.) people have visions
of a big pottery industry with their kaolin
deposits supplying the raw material.
Trengrove, of the local School of Mines, lias
turned out a porcelain bowl and glazed
white tiles made of local kaolin and felspar,
and now he is going to start a pottery class
in the hope that some day something will
come of it.
* * * *
One of John Bull’s troubles just now is a
shortage of officers to man his mercantile
marine. To get over part of the difficulty
the Board of Trade recently decided to issue
temporary second-mate certificates to candi-
dates who have served three years at sea and
are able to pass the examination for a
“second’s” papers. These certificates will be
valid only until three months after the finish
of the war. Under old rules a man had to
walk the bridge for at least four years before
he could become a “second.”
* * * *
“Verdad”: Isn’t it about time that the
quotation of silver was put on a sensible
basis? The present absurd system is to
quote the price per oz. standard, which really
means the price of nine-tenths of an ounce,
because English standard silver is only 92£
p.c. fine; i.e., there is 7i p.c. of alloy in stan-
dard silver. Why not quote the price per oz.
of pure silver? The only use I ever heard
of for the standard ounce system was to
deceive unfortunate miners who had a little
silver to sell. I knew one bank in M.L. that
used to make a great show of frankness in
dealing with the miners, by exhibiting to
them the quotations for silver in the daily
papers. Of course the bank bought the
bullion on the assay for pure silver, deducted
its charges for treatment, and paid on the
value of standard silver, and the miner
thought the kind manager was giving him a
penny or two above the market.
DEFEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As we came back along that bloodied road,
Mouthing vain oaths, and murder in our brains,
Mere life a mock’ry and a shameful load,
We cursed the dead we saw in trampled lanes ;
Wild-eyed and haggard from the useless charge,
Kicked out by Death as stuff too poor to take,
We trudged like felons from the trenches’ marge,
And prayed for strength their ribald strength to
break.
Peace hath its wild defeats, its hopeless days,
When Pride comes down a cropper in the dust,
And Hope’s ranks break before the barbed-wire maze
That guard the longed-for thing we took —on trust.
Then back we trudge along the way we came,
And no man opes his lips except to curse,
But walks with blazing eyes and heart aflame,
Because —because—oh, whistle up the hearse !
The landlord called, the grocer dunned. Such things
Outweigh by far the tragedies of kings.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
FROM THE SKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Our airmen dropped 40 bobs on Combles.”
—Sydney Telegraph.
Clear through the warm air of an August day
The wings of swift destruction soar and glide.
The loosened bomb, full-charged to rend and day,
Scatters its flaming terror far and wide.
But it is good to read of milder things
While in the battle’s pause some skylark sings.
Over the town the hawk of death is seen.
Men holcj. their breath and wait the dread event.
Some mutter curses in an idle spleen—-
A savage breath of words too lightly spent.
Women with pallid cheeks restrain their sobs ;
And then it falls —a rain of forty bobs!
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
Within this hive we’re all alive,
Good liquor makes us tunny,
If you be dry, step in and try
The flavor of our honey.
SONG OF THE TIRED RELIGIOUS CLERK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I sit here before the sea, as I sit here and look,
The blue horizon is a line in God’s great Judgment
Book,
And God is just a weary man who cannot bear to
judge,
And so He never writes a word, but makes a smoky
smudge.
And then His wind-eraser wipes the black marks from
the line
That never keeps a single smear. It shows a spirit
fine.
And when electric stars come out to light the page
deep-blue,
I wonder if He was my boss if He would raise my
screw.
N.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.


: 1
! ..
Wm
mmm
m
m
■
...i
i.
ill
i
S , "
*- *v A' ~'3
i I
-■••
•••V
g<A,*S' /'
r * ■ j
■ ’ r v
..,v ■ ’
. •■>;■ ’
V, «P''
■
f. ' V -ill
$7 r -\P
m
mg
a' ■
P/Si
IpABROIL GEARS are silent, and with this
quality is coupled a remarKable deg'ree
of strength and durability.
SILENCE and ENDURANCE are always
associated with FABROIL GEARS. The
strong' and resilient teeth of these Gears are
practically untouched when iron or brass
have already yielded to strain and wear,
and have to be replaced.
©
“ Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents —
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE-CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
YEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


.
-
.
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch, full
jewelled movement, compensation balance,
adjusted time spring, £2, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B, £lO. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
9et. Gold
Photo Ring,
showing cover
open, 25/-
Initials can he
engraved on cover
when closed.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Solid
Gold Battalion
Color Ring,
any Battalion
color can be sup-
plied. Lady’s
size, 21/-
Gent’s size,
25/-
2S
/ V
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and Plat-
inoid Brooch, set Diamonds and Olivine,
■€4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid 9ct. Gold Expanding Wrist-
let Watch, full jewelled, Lever movement, £7/10/-,
15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-. Similar styles, £3/10/-, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £6.
Sydney’s Leading: Jeweller.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Oval Cluster
Ring, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l2/10/-
Set all Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set five
pure Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders*
9ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set Pearls
and Amethyst, or red stones, 30/-
Send for Complete Illustrated Price List
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Brooch, set pure
double-cut Diamond, £5. Larger Diamond, £7/10/-,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Wristlet Watch, with Military Regu-
lation Strap, Nickel or Gun-metal Case, full jewelled, Lever
movement, reliable timekeeper, 25/-. Superior grades,
30/-, 35/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. Gold filled,
£3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-. Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-,
£6, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding Ring,
9ct., 10/-
15ct., 15/-
18ct. 20/-,
25/-, 30/-,
A. Saunders’ Gold
Anzac Brooch, set Pearls,
20/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Wedding Ring,
9ct., 15/-
15ct., 25/-
18ct. £2,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-17 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’
18et. Gold
Ring, set three
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Rin g, set five
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Necklace, set
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines, £2.
m
m
m
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid
Nickel Keyless Lever Watch,
full jewelled, with patent adjusted bal-
ance, non-magnetic time spring, dust- and
water-prooT cases, 20/-. Higher grades,
25/-, 30/-. All guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold
Hand Clasp
Ring, 20/-,
25/-, 80/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
pure Diamonds,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold
Lady’s Signet
Ring, 15/-
15ct., 30/-
18ct. 35/-
A. Saunders’
18ct. Gold
Ring, set three
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £lO,
A. Saunders’ Wristiet Watch, jewelled lever
movement, reliable timekeeper, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
Silver, £2, £2/10/-, £3. All guaranteed.
(Opp. Railway Station.)
mm
m
mm
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all'-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
4'5/-» Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield <& Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St-,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act' as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Hint-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, II- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
AVriting Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ AA’orksiiop
llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert AVales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price l/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book op
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
op the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases op Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-®b
Prof. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE! TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, I'/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 6/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 6/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want l l ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. lip Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS’ SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/*. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. Ti-ie Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy', Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, Cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney <only>


Amusements. __
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
■piVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
"piVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
MAX SELINSKY, TWO CARLYONS, mar-
guerite LEROY, JACK & FORIS, VAUDE &
VERNE, FLOYD MACK & MABELLE, BASLO &
VIVI, CARDO & NOLL, MUSICAL BALKANS,
STANLEY & BURNS, WINIFRED LEVIERE.
Plan at Glen’s.
Eli MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE DANCING MISTRESS.
SATURDAY NEXT,
ELORODOR A.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QR ITERION THEATRE, SYDNEYT
LAST FIVE NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
J. C. 'WILLIAMSON’S Clever Comedy Company in
the Greatest of Farces,
GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD.
Presenting HALE HAMILTON, the original Walling-
ford of London and New York.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
HEA T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Directors of THE BERT BAILEY CO.
have the pleasure of presenting,
for the first time in Sydney,
DUNCAN McCLURE and THE POOR PARSON.
A Screamingly Funny 4-Act Australian Comedy-
Drama by STEELE RUDD, author of “On Our
Selection.” Adapted by the author from his books
of the same name.
THIS WILDLY HILARIOUS AUSTRALIAN PLAY
will make you LAUGH UNTIL YOUR SIDES ACHE.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES
and his
ROYAL STROLLERS.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, Managing Director
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
7
TRIAN GLE plays ax
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEOIIGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres ,in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 9.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive the Delightful
Musical Play,
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and
HEATRE IiOYAI, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WHLLIAMSON LTD. present W. SOMERSET
MAUGHAM’S Remarkable Play,
I'HE LAND OP PROMISE.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE M^EBOURIfE.
• Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER presents his newly-imported
Musical Burlesque Co.
in
THE FOLLIES OF PLEASURE.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
ING - S THEATRES mel,bou r is e.
Lessees. .. .Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
K
EVERY EVENING.
J. & N. TAIT present
PUG O’ MY 11EAPT.
A Comedy of Youth, by J. HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES.
Box Plans at Allan’s.
J£ jg p r A Y HOUSE
(Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne).
The GREGAN McMAHON REPERTORY COMPANY
in IBSEN’S
HEDDA GABLER,
September ic—four nights only.
And W. A. VACHELL’S
QUINNEYS,
SEPTEMBER 23—SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/-. Box Plan at Glen’s.
IR C H & C A R R O L U
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Plaving Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from loowoomba to
Charters Towers. .
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading 'theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General rum
Comnanv of Australasia Ltd. _
Heap Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
FpLIE R’S H O T E li, MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Gifts for '
Friends in Camp.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values: —■
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/b
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case 4/-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
.654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.,
ttctsiVili sbpd over 30 Years.
1 Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return trlre'Tmi'timount paid if
Wright’s RheumatiaMftnedy, fjthef Canadian
cure, does .hot/ cure tour
lumbal pr /\dpey /(roubles^ Jjbr course,’ ‘ this
done i/Athese wtefe many failures,
and,'matter have been only
thrdeinstances in which the refund
was claimed l"fyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
Ithey issue with the remedy The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case._
ksh^ShhhhhhhhssshHsh^
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
l
7>
O.
S
TYRES
<3
ALL BRITISH,
m
h
E
&
TYRES I
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists:
MELBOURNE ;
MOLLOY & CO., 129, Kin* Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
p.c.b.— 6o
'is :
/'■H
I*. • -*
Jilf
toft***
m
Mmmrn
as
I #
mmm
s mm
1
IhT
igSESS
i£
ftHF
ml
Did you ever clean a window this way?
It is the quick and easy way —
with Bon Ami. You just take
a cake of Bon Ami, rub it with
a wet cloth to get a white foamy
lather, apply this lather on the
glass and let it dry a minute,
then wipe it off again with a
m
dry cloth. The Bon Ami comes
off in the form of a dry, soft
powder, bringing all the dirt and
grime with it, leaving the clearest,
cleanest window you ever saw.
Bon Ami looks like a scouring
soap but the mineral is much
softer and finer. It will not
scratch the finest glass or polished
metal.
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.
to
' W
JNDffi
PATRIOTISM
.You#
Aim? e
Then have a 3
at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.,
1'
T
m
DINNEFORD’S
Magnesia
m
m
IMPORTANT 1
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’3
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The MINISTER REQUESTS:
■
o
“Take Care of Your Notes.” Do not crumple them. Keep them
straight, clean and in good order. Paper money is expensive
to produce, and is rendered more so by the paper shortage.
The more care you take of your Notes, the less will be the
cost of the Government’s printing bill. Every patriotic citizen
can support the Government’s appeal for economy in this matter
by purchasing one of
STEWART DAWSON’S
PUZZLE NOTE BOOKS
A very cute, very handy, contrivance, being so thin and
compact it takes up no room in a man’s pocket or lady s
handbag. The notes can be laid in quite flat, and are kept
perfectly secure, as shown in the illustration. We stock various
sizes and shapes in these useful Note Holders, at following
prices: 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, to 12/6.
Our Latest Illustrated Folder of Soldiers’
Presents Post Free to any address.
STEWART DAW SON’S,
STRAND CORNER, 4*2 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


sw
N
D
Y
rs
ELY
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Suppe,r and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Motel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
HOYT’S
Pictures, George Street, near Horderns’
Continuous Daily—ll to 6. Sydney’s Newest and Most Elaborate Theatre.
Evening Bto 11. 12,000 Feet of Film. Full Orchestra under Conductor
Hardiman.
Theatre thoroughly cleaned, ventilated and fumigated between day and night
performances.
Book your seats. ’Phone City G2lB and they will be reserved. Plan a week
ahead at Theatre.
William Fox Photo. Plays are shown at this Theatre one week before any other
house can screen them.
Metro.-Drew Comedies—clean, wholesome humor—are exclusive to Hoyt’s
Proprietary.
We Haven’t Bought All the Pictures in the World.
We’ve only Bought the Best!
POLITICAL
POINTS
NOT THE DEVIL HE USED TO BE.
Every Billjim at the Front and every
Billjim in training to go there will vote
“Yes” on October 28 if he wants to have
the best chance of getting a fair deal when
he returns. Under the voluntary system it
has been and still is an offence to do or say
anything to prejudice recruiting. All sorts
of things have been pronounced prejudicial
to recruiting. Thus a paper has dared not
denounce the unpatriotic action of employers
who have behaved shamefully to returned
Anzacs. Dozens of such complaints, well
authenticated, have been turned away by
The Bulletin because they would cer-
tainly have given some employees the excuse
-—and a very good one —for not enlisting,
and thus prejudiced recruiting. With the
press and the public muzzled, in the inter-
ests of voluntary enlistment, the worst type
of employer has had no fear of consequences
even if he did behave scandalously. Com-
pulsory service will put an end to that sort
of thing. There will be no reason then to
keep back the discfosure of such cases; and
the knowledge of that will do more to get
the returned Billjim a fair deal than any-
thing else. Wherefore the wise Billjim will
vote “Yes” at the top of his voice.
Hughes, at Melbourne:—
August 14.—1 shall endeavor to do my duty no
matter whom it pleases or whom it displeases—(great
cheering)—for I am firmly convinced that as the
issues involved in this war touch the very foundation
of our national and economic being, there is only
one thing to lie done, now that the tocsin is summon-
ing every citizen to his duty. Whether it be
pleasant or not, it is for him to do it. (Loud
cheers.) The people of the Empire now feel as one,
and are ready to act as one. It is that which gives
us our spirit and our strength. We stand together
because we fall together, and now in this greatest
crisis of our life we shall stand together to the
end. (Loud and prolonged cheering.)
August 30. —In this, the greatest crisis of our life,
let us find out how the party cat feels. Let us take
a vote, and if it looks good enough I shall do my
duty and stand or fall as one with the biggest
crowd.
They knew a bit about us in France before
Billjim got there. Here is a translation
from a commonly-used French schoolbook :
The country which counts the largest number of
legislators is Australia. There are there 14 Parlia-
ments with 751 M’s.P. for a population of just over
4,000,000 people. In counting only male adults
one can boldly say that one in every 500 is a member.
Then Francois junior is invited to open
his eyes in astonishment at the num-
ber of ex-members; and finally he is assured
that it isn’t any good for a country to leave
off work to talk.
Gordon Webber, the Laborite who got a
warm time in Vic. Parliament lately because
he had not enlisted, did not publicly give the
real reason. He is in the grip of neuritis.
After the row he fainted, and was uncon-
scious a long time. It is always unfair to
drag personalities into a debate on war ser-
vice. Conscription would have saved thou-
sands of good but unfortunate Australians
from two years’ cruelty.
It has been a subdued Westralian Labor
party since the Canning election. The elec-
tors’ emphatic verdict was not for Robin-
son, .K.C., but of no confidence in the crowd
which had piled up a deficit of nearly a
million and a half for .300,000 people, gone
.on a howling loan jag and entered into
secret contracts with persons who made
remarkably good deals for themselves. All
the votes that Robinson got for being
Robinson could be pushed through the eye
of a camel, while Scaddan’s personal popu-
larity and platform ability more than
counter-balanced the new Attorney-General's
exuberant promises. The three-ball Labor
party is not perishing now for a dissolution.
It has a horrible suspicion that it might
perish by a dissolution.
Andrew Fisher denies that he dropped his
guard and indulged in a sensible curse at
Australia’s 14 Houses of Parliament legis-
lating for five million people. It doesn’t
matter whether he did or not. What does
matter is that thousands of young Aus-
tralians are now seeing for themselves that
the compact London County Council can
successfully run a city of eight millions and
do it with less recrimination and waste of
time than any one Australian Chamber. The
object-lesson is sinking in, and will be re-
membered later on. „
Maoriland’s Cold Hash Ministry heard
the axe on the grindstone again the other
day. There was a by-election for Pahiatua,
and Massey and Ward had announced that
the interests of the Empire demanded that
a person named Smith should be pushed in
to help them sit tight on “party controversy.”
They presented Smith as an inflexible Cold
Hasher, and implored the electors to have
nothing to do with anybody else. When
the numbers went up Smith was on top with
1 “>2l, but the Independent and Labor candi-
dates had 1678 votes between them. A
minority vote had saved the situation.
Ex-Opposition leader Prendergast (Vic.)
wore a pathetically crushed expression the
other evening when, in the course of the
liquor referendum debate, Speaker Madden
gave a ruling in his favor. Prendergast had
told Farthing: “I would not believe your
word on your oath in any circumstances,”
and Farthing wished to know if that was in
order. The Speaker ruled that it was. “The
hon. member does not charge you with being
untruthful,” said Madden, “but merely says
that there is something defective in his own
composition, possibly, that prevents him from
believing something that a gentleman says.”
The House tittered and Prendergast looked
as if he wished the Speaker had ruled him
out of order and had done with it.
The interesting question whether it is or
in not permissible to compare John Yerran
to a bull in a china shop was to be argued
in the S. Aus. Assembly lately, but the mem-
ber who had used the words withdrew them
just when counsel was getting ready to be
heai'd.
Holman on the conscription shirk: —
Quite probably if I had had to solve the problems
which the Prime Minister has had to solve during
the last few days I should have arrived at some
different solution.
No doubt. F’rinstance, he might have
handed the job over to Norton Griffiths.
HEAVEN UP-TO-DATE.—No. 2.
ST. PETER (the doorkeeper): “Not a soul more comes in till the turnstile's ready. I've
worn out more good keys opening and shutting the door since this war started
than would set up all the locksmiths in Paradise.”
A sublime instance of national economy
occurs daily in Victoria, where the Postal
Department employs a motor-coacli at a
cost of £238 a year to carry the mail
from Kerang to Cohuna. A railway train
also reaches Cohuna once a day, but as the
Department wants £5ll per annum to carry
a mailbag in the guard’s van, the Postal
economists will liavq none of it, but bleat
fatuously that they are “saving” £273 a
year. Apparently officialdom can’t see that
the £5ll would be merely transferred from
one public pocket to another, nobody being a
penny the poorer, while the £238 is dead
loss, inasmuch as it takes a man and motor
away from some useful work and wastes
them in doing what the train can do better.
Economy and efficiency by all means!
That is why the State Parliament of Vic-
toria has just wasted almost two months in
a useless discussion of everything in gene-
ral. They call it an Address in Beply. And
now Premier Peacock is languidly passing
a Liquor Keferendum Bill, after arranging
that another Bill shall be brought in to make
it effective. To help the Government -waste
time and money private members introduce
measures which haven’t a hope of passing
—Prendergast, for instance, with his A Mer-
men Abolition Bill and Outtrim with his
Bill to do the same for vaccination.
A QUESTION OF DEGREE.
Offensive.
Very
Offensive.
Beastly
Offensive.
The
Devil.
_On September 1 Melbourne felt the claw
of the old Sosh tiger in a new place when
it took a ride on the trams which good
Private Enterprise lately handed over.
Until then Melbourne paid threepence for a
tuppenny ride unless it bought five other
rides before it wanted them. Now the
unreasonable Sosh beast says that a tup-
penny ride should cost tuppence, just as a
five-pound suit costs five pounds even if you
don’t pay for five others in advance.
With that charming consistency which
we begin to expect of it, the Commonwealth
Government calls for engineers to proceed
to Britain to relieve the congestion in the
engineering works, and then places an order
on the Clyde for a £145,000 dredge to make
the congestion worse than ever.
John Norton, though dead, yet liveth. Ilis
wife had got an order for alimony pendente
life against him, and the application to make
it permanent was before the Court when the
husband died. Though a very wealthy man
lie left his widow quite unprovided
for: everything was to go ■to an
infant daughter and the lady whose name
was joined with John’s in the divorce pro-
ceedings. For years Griffith hasn’t been able to
get the N.S.W. Parliament really interested in
his most just Bill to prevent atrocious testa-
mentary dispositions of this sort; but the
Norton case was so bad that the measure
looks like flying through, with a tag making
it retrospective for a year. And that will
be no less than'a decent thing, seeing that it
was the Legislature’s remissness which per-
mitted John to do an indecent thing—or
attempt it, at any rate.
At the moment when the Holman Govern-
ment is borrowing money at 5| per cent, to
splash on works for which there is no urgent
demand, and doing it on the ground that
otherwise there would be a shocking amount
of unemployment and distress, practically
the whole of the mining companies of
Australia are crying out for labor.
They may be all in a gigantic con-
spiracy ; but that hardly seems likely
seeing that a good many of them have
reduced their shifts, and it doesn’t
look as though they would willingly
do that with metals sky-high. It
seems far more likely that the excuse
of the N. S. Wales Government is a
hollow fraud.
“Four Hundred”: Either the well-
to-do tripper and the jaunting poli-
tician don’t pay their way, or else the
S. Wales Government manages
“Kozzy” badly, for the expenditure
last _ year was £2OOO more than the
receipts. It hurts me to think that I,
as a taxpayer, am partly financing the
holidays of the uppish classes whose
names appear in the little social prints
that record the visitors to Kosciusko. It
should also hurt a lot of Holman’s sup-
porters.
“Analyst”: Is there a technical college in
Australia where a dyer or a dyer’s appren-
tice can learn anything of the chemistry of
dyeing? Or is there a dye-house in Aus-
tralia where a chemist would be welcomed
and given a free hand to see, say, what
could be done with myrticolorin (the yellow
dye-stuff in eucalyptus leaves) in a com-
mercial sense? Not one. I’ll bet my hat!
Yet the chemist and the potstick handler will
have to collaborate if we are to get anywhere.
A SONG OF SEPTEMBER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re getting somewhere! Cannon boom and batter
The trenches of the swearing, sweating foe.
Do what'lie will, his counter does not matter;
The ball of fate is at our Allied toe.
Red are the skies, the green hills torn asunder
And black the growing death-lists —can we wonder?
But here the wattle tosses all her gold about us,
The skies are full of laughter, and the sun
Winks from a happy cloud, intent to shout us
Draughts of sweet weather ere the month be done.
The black deeds and the red we scarce remember,
Caught in the meshes of a green September.
Rcumania bumps the Kaiser through the passes
Where Autumn gilds the Transylvanian Alps;
The world has thistles for a million asses,
And Mars, unchecked, is raging still for scalps.
But we’re on top ; and every flag aflutter
Jeers at the Teuton pushed to kerb and gutter.
A young rose, like a merry lip enticing,
Blows to and fro beside my window pane.
Pineapple of the world now fit for slicing!
Joy holds the knife, and I’m alive again.
Gee up, old crock! My Pegasus is trusty,
Though harps be mouldy-green and pens go rusty.
Fed on pineapples, crowned with roses nodding,
I urge the steed along the flowery way !
Spurred with keen rhyme of my especial prodding
He rushes towards the thing he wants to say—
Then balks, while all my fancy aims at singing
Of battle deeds among the young grass springing!
Gee up! He’s like an aeroplane cavorting,
Wind-tossed about the meadow of the sky.
This horse of mine, in spite of all reporting,
Has George’s kink and cannot tell a lie.
He can’t get on, howe’er I goad and fret him—-
Pearce and his Bunlble censorship won’t let him!
N.B.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


m
mm
m
Paling"s Pianos «»-
Player Pianos.
Seledled Specially
for Australia.
The more you know about music the more
you will appreciate the musical qualities of
Paling’s Pianos and Player Pianos.
The more critically you examine the inside and outside of
Paling’s Pianos and Player Pianos the better you will
understand what it means to buy an honestly built Piano or
Player Piano from Paling’s.
WE HAVE SOLE AGENCIES
for the best pianos and player pianos, in their various grades,
the world produces —instruments that are perfect in every detail
and specially constructed to give lasting satisfaction in the
• Australian climate. Sold fully guaranteed.
If you cannot conveniently call to-day, write to-night for Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. They are free for the asking.
You can purchase on our system of easy time payments.
Your present piano taken as part payment —no charge for valuing.
W. H. PALING & GO. LTD
■5
Estd.
1853.
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Newcastle and Lismore.
Sole Agents for Chappell, Sames, Estey and Victor Pianos.
ishyis
»»«*«■mm
;
m
KfaKß^B£2SS&2*
Adulterated Pepper Injures
It insidiously injures, too, so one does not get a chance with it.
The only way to prevent adulteration is to grind your own pepper
at the table from the whole peppercorns.
It is a pleasing and dainty operation. You merely turn the head of
the pepper mill over the food. You thus ensure purity and secure a
flavor that is perfect.
The mill is enclosed in Oak and is mounted in heavy solid silver.
It lasts a lifetime, is handsome on the table, and merely requires filling
with peppercorns once a month of so.
We show them in many designs. Try one and you will never
discard it.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 (Si 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY PLAIN FIGURES.
Oak Peppermill, with
Electro-plated Mount as
illustrated 12/6
Less 20% discount 2/6
10/-
With Solid Silver
Mount 15/- net
✓
c:i
:a
[PERFECTION in DESIGN. MATERIALS an* WORKMANSHIP!
*
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
m
■
i *
iit
The vSRANDIA in RABAUL
CAPT. J. M. RON DAHL’S Fast Schooner “ BUKA.”
45 Tons D.W.; Speed 10 knots ;
25-h.p. SKANDIA Engine.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loft us Street,
SYDNEY.
(
ass
J
m
m
dr
iH
■ili
The perfect musical instrument
-The NEW EDISON
It has attained what all have been hoping for —perfect reproduc-
tion of sound, actual re-creation. Tt is the beginning of a new era
in music, and brings the music of the greatest masters —the most
renowned artists —to your home, in all its original beauty.
The Artist’s Tone
is the Edison Tone
The NEW EDISON has no tone of its own ; it is merely a perfect vehicle
for the re-creation of the artist’s work. There is no foreign sound, ho
“talking machine” tone. Mr. Edison has eliminated this.
The music of The NEW EDISON is nothing but the-pure, unaltered, life- ;
' like tone of the original. - - -•-• ' .. —.
Nothing now idelights the cultured- music-lover more than to,sit and listen
to the The NEW EDISON; He knows.its reproduction is perfect in every
way.
Inquire NOW about this unique instrmnent.- Write for illustrated descrip.- ....
tive catalog. • -* 7
■ V / •; i ;r?i
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD., 1104-372 Kent Street, Sidney. .


The widely inspired optimists are again
justified by Itoumania’s entry into the war.
And the wisely inspired optimists are those
inspired by that spirit of wisdom King
George IV. topnoteh Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: FICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
In these anxious times —econ-
omy must be a first considera-
tion. Cut out needless expense
—shave yourself. It’s easy and
quite safe if you use the
*1
e£ZZ322EZnZ>
No STROPPING NO HONING
No other razor gives you the
same satisfactory service.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere. Write for free booklet.
Agents: S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
m
MARK A
m
. HNOWh TMf
JWBRIO OVK%
HA
iNcujATtj
0
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
mm
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
m
TO
H-M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
m
SPORTING
NOTIONS
First acceptances for the A.J.C. Spring
meeting still leave fields unwieldy. There will be a
heavy cut when next payments are due. In the Derby
there are 40, in the Epsom 62, and the Metropolitan
67. For the Epsom the flying Woorak is still
favorite. If he goes on well in his work—and he is
a wonderful track performer—he is almost certain to
be at a very short price on the day. But he has
lOst. 41b., and that is a thumping big weight. For
the Metropolitan last year’s disappointment, Wallace
Isinglass, has many friends, and so has the Maori-
lander Bee. Wallace will deserve to be taken very
seriously for this race if he shows winning and stay-
ing form before the event starts. At present, back-
ing him is taking a shot in the dark, and punters
who go in for that sort of fun usually remember it
for a long while afterwards. There is yet over three
weeks to go, and in that time much light (and dark-
ness) will be shed on the situation ; but so far as the
Epsom is concerned this page has a strong suspicion
that there are at least 61 nags on the list of 62
which have no chance of winning the race.
* * * *
Judged on his English form, in compari-
son with his recent running at Rosehill, the five-
year-old Rushford, in Tom Payten’s stable, should
go near to snapping the Metrop. Fourteen months
ago Rushford gave 131 b. to Medley and beat him
in their places for a 10-furlong race at Newmarket
(Eng.). At Rosehill, when giving only 41b., Rush-
ford ran Medley to a head over 11 furlongs. It
may be reasonably assumed that Rushford is capable
of a stone improvement on that running. The
imported nag is let into the Metrop. at 7st. 121 b.,
and, if he trains on, must have a show. All the
same he is not quite so favorably handicapped as
Costello, another imported horse of the same age.
Both of them appear on paper to have been better
treated than Sydian, which is saying a lot.
* * * *
Lingle, favorite since the weights appeared
for Caulfield Cup, was last week scratched for that
event. The incident caused much surprise in places
where these things count and caused at least one
man—a bookmaker—to frantically grab his head with
both hands and demand to be told if it was all a
bad dream. This astute individual, having learned on
the worst authority that Lingle was being specially
.prepared for Caulfield Cup, had rushed about back-
ing the nag for a ton. Apparently this suited some-
one else admirably, as a fortnight back Lingle was
supported to win Melbourne Cup for thousands. The
Linacre prad is now a solid favorite for the Cup and
is likely to remain thereabouts unless something hap-
pens to his training. Lingle must be further forward
in his preparation than those responsible were aware,
judging by his performance at Rosehill recently,
when he unexpectedly ran into third place. This
page is not going to faint with astonishment if
Lingle captures something before the boy is given a
leg-up at Flemington.
* * * *
When Secret Service appropriated the
Flying at Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday the Bar
Vons gave three tremendous cheers and a tiger.
The fact that the nag’s track work had been con-
fined to long-distance gallops with Ulva’s Isle had
been sufficient excuse for the public to leave him
alone and dollop cash on something else. Secret
Service swooped along in the last 50 yards on to
the Maorilander Shrill and Delinacre, and won with
the bit between his teeth. Secret Service has
turned out a valuable property since he left Kelso’s
stable over a year ago. When a three-year-old he
was expected to make a big show in A.J.C. Derby,
but didn’t. On Saturday he was having his first
run since he raced in Brisbane during May and
June. While North he landed the Hamilton Handi-
cap, and a month earlier had caught the Coogee
Handicap at Rand wick. His spring arrangements
include Epsom Handicap (7st. 121 b.) and Metro-
politan (7st. 91b.). Shrill is one of W. G. Stead’s
team of Maorilanders over in these parts in charge
of trainer Quinlivan. The only event she has annexed
during her four years of life is a hack event in
Maoriland. She may add to that shortly.
Dick O’Connor’s little Wallace horse Coat
o’ Mail made a runaway affair of Moorefield Han-
dicap at Sydney on Saturday. The abbreviated
animal leaped away when the barrier went up and
was soon half a dozen lengths in front. As the
others got tired of the chase he was still there when
the judge was reached. At Newcastle, not long back,
Coat o’ Mail did the same thing with equal success.
On each occasion apprentice J. Warne was on board.
The little horse relishes a lightweight so much that
he never wins with anything like tonnage to carry.
Had the second nag, Pretty Mary, managed to hit
the front at the right moment there would have
been untold joy among the Chosen. It would be a
safe wager that nobody but her immediate connec-
tions knew the lady was a competitor until the
numbers were hoisted.
Apart from the fact that after five horses
had fallen Sweet Step won the Moorefield Hurdle
Race on Saturday by fully a furlong, the only
remarkable feature about the calamitous event was
the age of the horse which finished second. Load-
star was born 15 years ago, and for a great part
of that period has been hopping over hurdles with
only moderate success.
* * * *
Panacre, who to some people looks good
for the Epsom, dragged lOst. 81b. into second
place in the Newcastle Club Handicap, one mile, on
Saturday. He had the hard luck on the journey
to be so badly bumped that he had to be nearly
pulled up. Panacre is a fine horse. This page is
not ashamed to confess that it backed him in last
Melbourne Derby at a long price, and remembers
having some excitement over the transaction.
Panacre’s racing colors are all pink, and when a
jacket of that hue ranged up alongside the gold
stars of Cetigne 50 yards from the finish at
Flemington the bet looked as good as won. The
shock arrived when the near-sighted and wretched
punter discovered that the pink decoration streaking
past Barnett’s colt was on top of Patrobus.
* * * *
The Sydney Cup winner, Prince Bardolph,
did his backers a good turn at Caulfield last Satur-
day by landing a 50 to 1 chance for a w.f.a. race.
But, then, he had no backers to speak of, or the
price would have been a lot shorter. The unripe
Prince beat stable-companion King Kora by a neck,
with King’s Chancellor, a 33 to 1 chance, only
another neck away. And this in a field of 11!
Queer things happen early in the Spring. Evidently
the Cup winner is more improved or more forward
than trainer Whitty thought. On the other hand, the
fancied Cyklon tired to nothing, and William the
Silent somewhat disappointed his friends, although
lie finished fourth. Nevertheless little William
appears to be coming along nicely, and will probably
put up some plucky fights soon.
In the proposed reduction of Victorian
race meetings wealthy Colac is cut down from three
fixtures to two for the year. The committee of the
local turf club has met and considered the matter,
and is going to oppose the proposition for most of the
usual reasons. One objection to the curtailment,
however, is that “racing is necessary in the interests
of hay-production.” Of course, it isn’t. We might
keep herds of white elephants instead. 'They wouldn’t
be any more use, and they would eat more hay.
* * * *
What an endless procession it is! Mahara-
jah, the 1500-guinea yearling who started his racing
career by winning the rich Caulfield Futurity Stakes,
has broken down —beyond remedy, so ’tis said. And
animals that cost a fifth of that hatful are busy
winning thousands.
* * * *
The first big South Aus. race meeting of
the year, the Grand National, at Victoria Park, had
rotten weather, one day wet and the other blustering.
The Hurdles went to brewer Nott’s Hobgoblin, and
the Steeple to the Victorian Troublesome. It was
a race of trouble, every way, Southland making the
pace so fast as to bring most of them down. “Forest
Prince, broken down, last,” announced the Press
“caller” of the running, half-way through; yet the
Prince got third money, for lack of other finishers.
Algol and Warflame went from Melbourne for a cut
at the Adelaide Guineas, but Hamilton’s Bourlang
won from Hawker’s Boontree; and the first two-year-
old event of the year, the Fulham Park Plate, fell to
Bottle King (by Bobadil), so little thought of that
he paid a £27 Us. dividend. The totalisator took
under £28,000 on the two days, the least since 1909.
* * * *
At Tattersall’s Adelaide meeting on Satur-
day the tote paid on three horses in the Spring
Handicap, the judge being unable to separate second
and third. The divs. were £2l 18s., Wilparoo £l,
Lencops £3 3s. In the Hurdles Islam distributed
£59 145., and backers of Lost Luger got £1 7s.
Ask Ike for anything like that, and, wiping the
sweat from his brow, he would turn sadly away to
toil after wearily asking, “Wotcher givin’ us ?”
* - * * *
Paddy Crick would twang liis harp
with pride if somebody managed to heliograph the
doings in Western N. S. Wales of a couple of gee-
gees fathered by his old favorite Collarit. Master
Jacob’s run of success is eight wins in nine starts ;
and in the recently-ended season Collect fled past
the post first in 16 flyings. P. Davis, of Bathurst,
owns both nags.
* * * *
N.S.W. Western District Racing Associa-
tion is solemnly considering the application of a
woman for license as a bookmaker’s clerk. Well, if
we must have Ikey there seems no good reason for
barring Rebecca.
* * * *
Mistico is easily champion in Westralia.
At the recent Kalgoorlie meeting lie won the Spring
Stakes (w.f.a.), Kalgoorlie Stakes (w.f.a.), and
Kalgoorlie Cup. For the Cup he carried 9st. 121 b.
over 11- miles in 2min. 341 sec. It’s said that the
nag will be slipped after some of the plums in the
Eastern States shortly.
* * * *
“Conscience,” as the first murderer re-
marks in “Richard III.,” “is a bad thing.” It now
provides the N. S. Wales Labor party with an excuse
for not legalising the tote.
* ' * * *
When Dave Smith and Art Magirl, of
U.S.A., wandered into the ring at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday the good judges who in the afternoon
had been laying 3 to 1 on Dave sat back to watch
him turn the Yank into cold meat. The first round
was not over before they commenced to tear their
hair nor the second concluded before they gnashed
their teeth. Magirl absolutely refused to be turned
into meat. He proved to be a smart, resourceful
performer with a swift-travelling, hurtful punch.
And he was as cold as ice. Smith with pronounced
advantages of height and reach and half a stone
heavier had all the worst of the fray. He missed
badly, and hit with little judgment and less force.
Perhaps he was stale. Certainly he had been getting
some hard knocks since starting to come back a
month or so before. Anyhow, by the time the tenth
collision ended he looked very weary. Magirl had
meanwhile wasted neither time nor strength. In
the twelfth he chopped the right quickly to the jaw
and deposited the left under the chin. At the count
of nine Smith was up with his wits a mile away,
and as he backed off his raised glove was flicked
away and —-well, when he went down the back of his
head banged the floor with the dismal sound of the
Last Knock reverberating through Eternity. Done
to a turn, David was removed from the picture and
the Yank quietly put his coat on.
* * * *
Next conflicts arranged for Darcy—by his
mother, we suppose—are with Jimmy Clabby and
George Chip. There was a long wrangle about the
poundage for the disturbance with Clabby. Darcy
wanted it at catch-weights, but James was hard o’
hearing on that side, and insisted on the middle-
weight limit. Of course, he was quite right, for
even at that he will have the worst of it. Chip is
laboriously getting up his muscles and improving his
wind for the fray, and expects to give the Australian
a lively evening. He may. Anyhow, Chip possesses
a wallop which falls with a heavy thud, and if he
drops it on Darcy at the right place that young man
is not going to feel very glad. After the unpleasant-
ness with the two ’Murkans Darcy will consider
taking on Tom McMahon, also from U.S.A. Thomas,
a person who weighs about half a ton, is to be tried
out on Leg O’Donnell.
* * * *
With a bunch of red hair crowning some
such name as Patsy Brannigan, the latest U.S.A.
import looked like providing strenuous opposition to
Bert Spargo at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday ; but
the Victorian smothered him with unpleasantness.
Patsy put much trust in bull-headed rushes, left rips,
good luck, and the invulnerability of his jaw. When
lie hastened in with all this, Spargo stepped back,
dodged the disaster and landed left and right swings
which anyone but P. Brannigan would have taken
seriously. Straight lefts to the nose and a plaster
of rights, on the ribs in clinches were also served up
hot to Patsy, who with all his 500- or 5000-odd
scraps, which ever it is, hasn’t cultivated the artistic
side of his business. His rhetoric when the referee
passed him by was as vivid as his thatch.
* * * *
The July number of the English Review
has an article on the British Empire by Frank P.
Slavin. Yes, old friend Paddy, now at 56 getting
ready to do something to Wilhelm. It can’t be said
truthfully that Slavin adds much to the literature of
a much-frothed-about subject. But he makes one
interesting confession —that he is a South Australian
by birth. It has generally been printed that he
started to grow in Maitland (N.S.W.) ; but he says
his father took him there when he (Paddy) was a
kid. Maybe, however, Peter Jackson’s old friend
forgets. He used to be a blacksmith. But he tells
the English Review that, “although he turned his
hands to many callings, the one job he always came
back to was mining engineering.”
* * * *
C. H. Elliot, once the high-jumping
treasurer of the Tasmanian Amateur Athletic Associa-
tion, went to the Front with the first Australian
crowd as a captain. He has stuck to it ever since,
except for a spell in hospital, and is now a lieut.-
colonel.
* * * *
“Captain Keith Heritage, Military Cross.
—Captain Heritage led a raid on the enemy’s
trenches, killing 20, and making prisoner four. He
carried a wounded man back single-handed, and
throughout the raid set a fine example of cool
courage.” Thus the official cable. Heritage has pro-
bably the best record among Australia’s rowing men
of to-day. He learned to paddle with the Tamar Rowing
Club (Launceston), and
four times represented
the Speck in Inter-State
Eights—in two winning
crews, a second and a
third. Also he success-
fully represented the
club in numerous Island
champion fours and
eights. Moving to Syd-
ney he pulled a success-
ful oar for Ma in the
inter-State eights and
for Sydney Rowing Club
in several State cham-
pion fours and eights.
He rowed also in the
Australian crew which
won the Stewards’ Chal-
lenge Cup at Henley.
When war broke out
Heritage was traffic-
manager for the Union
S.S. Co. in Sydney. After
seeing the Rabaul dis-
turbance he had five
months at Gallipoli and
was in charge of the
last five men to leave
Monash Gully (they had
orders to make them-
selves look like an army
of five hundred). Then
he had a go on the
Canal, and after that
took a taxi to the enter-
tainment in France.
BOB CROLL,
of the A.A.A.,
Victoria.
Lieut. Jack Cosson, boxer, boxing referee,
bookie, Vic. racehorse owner and good sport generally,
has gone out to a German bullet. In his young days
Jack was one of the best lightweight boxers in Aus-
tralia. Although over 50, he enlisted almost imme-
diately upon the outbreak of war. At Gallipoli he
secured five wounds and a D.S.O.
* * * *
Killed in France, Lieut. Leo Butler, Tas-
manian cricketer, lawyer and good fellow. Both in
the Speck, where he captained South Hobart, and in
Melbourne, where he put up some good perform-
ances in pennant matches, he made a stir as a fear-
less hitter. He was twice selected to represent Tas.
against the mainland. Leo had tremendous strength,
and when he was feeling good there was probably no
more powerful smiter in Australia. It was nothing
uncommon in practice to see him biff a ball from
one end of the T.C.A. oval to the other, a good 130
yards. No one who saw the hurricane 119 he played
against West Hobart the season before lie got into
khaki will forget it. There was 6ft. 3in. of him
and every inch was Man.
If- * * *
Dead in London, H. O. Smith, one of the
best-known batsmen the Speck has lately produced.
He was a prominent player in Launceston, and for
many a day will be remembered thereabouts for his
innings of 179 against South Tas. in ’lO (the high-
est score ever put up by a Tamar-sider in these
matches) and for 124 against the S’Africans in the
following season. On both occasions he went in
first and carried his bat right through. He also did
prettv well in Melbourne and was picked to repre-
sent Vic. against the Ma State, once putting together
85 n.o. But he was a careful sort, His monotonous
methods with the bat earned him the name of
“Soporific Smith.”
* * * *
A real romance of War and Sport has just
been played to its last act by Tattersall’s Club, of
Adelaide. After the Boer war, A. J. Lee, a crack
amateur rider, sent the Club a silver cup, “not looted
from a house, but found planted in a stone wall,”
somewhere in S. Africa. Lee is in the present war,
too, and wrote to Adelaide a while ago that, as
“those who were then our opponents are now our
pals, and are putting up a good fight for the
Empire,” it would be a decent thing to send the
cup back to its original owner. So the Club took
down the trophy from its walls, and Sam Jacobs,
the chairman, got to work through his Capetown
agents, and the owner, Z. J. de Beer, was discovered
and the cup was sent to him. He explains handsomely
that there was no looting; the British general who
occupied his farm “sent my plate, etc., to the bank,
and I got it back afterwards.” The cup was won by a
mare of his at the Harrismith Sporting Club many
years before the war, but “never delivered to me,
and I never expected to get it, seeing that the club
was dissolved, as these country clubs often are.” So
evidently there was a dishonest carrier somewhere in
S’Africa, and the Australian soldier came in as the
good angel by whom the cup reached the rightful
owner, 30 years after date.
-X- * * *
W. J. Hamilton, cross-country champion
of Bananaland, is still winning the toast rack and
the teapot. Last week he outdistanced the field in
a 10-mile Marathon around Brisbane’s highways and
byways in 63min. 8 2-ssec., the nearest of the
stragglers being a quarter-mile away. Hamilton’s
trophies would fill a cart.
* * * *
Ten days ago T. J. Wilson won fU e half-
mile and two-mile handicaps and five-mile scratch
out of a four-event cycling bill o’ fare in Sydney,
and on Saturday he picked up the two-mile handicap
from the mark in 4min. 50 l-ssec. Charlie Fittler,
who has lately been grabbing fastest-time prizes
in most events, finished second to Wilson on Satur-
day, Wilson appears about entitled to go on
scratch in the open programmes.
* » •* *
If young Joe Kirkwood omits to become
open golf champion of Australia next time the
opportunity opens to him, he ought to do it the
time after. If he doesn’t then the writer intends
to give up prophecy and take to rockchopping',
singing in the choir or something. The day before
yesterday Joe was a barelegged Manly kid. He
was a caddie for a while and showed promise. Later
he became Soutar’s attendant, learned to be handy
in the pro.’s workshop, and became a deadly accu-
rate player, without much length. Suddenly almost
the power to smite long ’uns came to him, and he
began to do things. He has been for some months
in Brisbane and is going to Victoria as a club pro.
On the way he has been spending a day or two
around the old Manly haunts. And what a punch
that boy has developed! He started by putting
his drive on the first green (302 yards and a bunker)
and then proceeded to make the course look foolish.
And he hasn’t lost his accuracy, either.
* * * *
The leap towards khaki by the older ath-
letes has left a big gap in N.S.W. sports, and schools
and juniors are being chased to fill the hole. The
Association is providing three practice wickets on the
Sydney Cricket Ground, and membership tickets are
dangled out as rewards for the more proficient; the
A.A.A. is inviting the fleet-footed kid to hurry up;
and the Lawn Tennis Association is dropping in with
an offer of a shield for schools. The result of it all
may be a copious supply of that young blood which in
the past has been given too little opportunity.
* * * *
Sosli of a sort is flourishing in the Speck
these times. The construction of a new sports ground
at North Hobart has been undertaken by New-
town Council, and the job will soon be over. As the
new arena is served by trams on both sides and has a
large part of the village population close handy, there
should be no trouble in getting at least half a dozen
citizens to look over the fence if anything worth
while is happening. The Cricket Association, which
runs the upper cricket ground, one of the most pic-
turesque ovals in Australia, is meanwhile feeling
very, very sick, and the bailiffs have lately hung
their hats up on the picturesqueness. It is now sug-
gested that as the City Council is always clamoring
for recreation places it should take the T.C.A. Ground
over, at the price of its liabilities. These only amount
to some £l5OO, so it is likely the notion will be
adopted. #
A Waikerie (S.A.) man has taken the
count from a blow probably unique in Australia. He
was talking to the judge at the local sports, when an
enthusiastic Highlander took a trial toss with the
caber, missing the judge but lobbing the timber on to
the bvstander. It put him to sleep for an hour.
"** * *
The “grand final” of Vic. League football
was staged in Melbourne on Saturday in the presence
of 20,000 men and boys and 953 women and girls.
Though it was the biggest gate of the season it
yielded only £503, as against last, season’s £lO5l.
’Roy practically repeated its tactics of the week
before—fast, accurate passing and persistent wing
plav in defence —and finished with 85 points to Carl-
ton’s 56. This is ’Roy’s seventh premiership, the
last being in 1913.
* * * *
Petersham had luck in N.S.W. baseball
this season. By winning on a protest against Leich-
hardt a few weeks ago the team climbed to the top,
and though adversity smote them in the last two
matches —Waverley beating them by 6-4, and Leich-
hardt by 7-4 —they, had just enough points in hand
to make them premiers.
* * * *
“Pick” : Among bushmen I’ll back a fight
to remain most firmly fixed in the unwritten calen-
dar. On the Monaro, “the time that Blyton fought
Sparkes,” is a sort of straining-post on which to
hang the years. You count the panels from there —
so many years before or so many years after that
historic four-hours’ slogging between the bulloekies’
champions. In the Braidwood district the chief date-
mark was carved on the portals of Time when the
lame Hatton beat Bricky, a heavyweight, 30 years
ago. And along the ’Bidgee at Jugiong, “when
Edney fought Sullivan and neither was marked,” is
still quoted as the incident from which all events
should be noted. That bloodless affray wasted a
good 10 hours of summer ’way back in ’95.


Jk
I.
Warn
There is a WAY to
Perfecft Health.
That way ia open to you. Will you travel it?
The only way to improve Nature is through NATURAL
methods.
Drugs and apparatus usually show no results and are often
injurious. Under my method 15 minutes each day in your
own room is sufficient. I have thousands of students in all
parts of Australia and New Zealand who are now enjoying
good health. Previously a great number of these people
were sufferers from indigestion, constipation and other dis-
orders which are .the direct result of the internal muscles
being much below normal.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surelv you want to enj'oy the best of health ? Then why not
write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture?
This is proof of what I say:—- \
“Dear Sir, —I am pleased to report a marked improve-
ment in health. I have gained 91b. in weight, and my
chest has expanded 11 inches. Indigestion and constipation
have entirely disappeared. I feel much fresher on awaken-
ing in thp morning than I once did.”
(Signed) 11. M., Riverstone.
Many hundreds of letters from pupils throughout Australia
and New Zealand are in the same strain.
I should like you to have my booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF CULTURE,” which tells about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name across this advt.
and send it to me, with three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
532 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Lloyd’ $ (London)
BRIAR PIPES.
4/6
48 Different Shapes
ALL ONE PRICE.
4/6
If you want a Pipe that will enable you
to get the utmost enjoyment from your
favorite tobacco, try one of these famous
briars.
They are certainly most exceptional value.
The Mounts are Hall-marked Silver, and they
are guaranteed not to crack or burn within
a reasonable time.
No. 4
No. 9
No. 10
No. 3
ANY SHAPE —4/6 POST FREE.
A great variety of these pipes are illustrated
in my catalog. Write for a free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL,
w
is
NATURE’S
BEST.
Missing Friends.
TO POLLY KERRI SON and ANNIE
KERRISON (or Annie Newton), who
left Christchurch, New Zealand, upwards of
26 years ago, both children of the late Wil-
liam Kerrison and Anna Maria Kernson,
and to all persons claiming by, through or
under them or either of them, including then-
children. . „,, TT
PURSUANT to the directions of the Hon-
orable Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief
Justice of New Zealand, under section 2o ot
The' Public Trust Office Amendment Act
1913, you are hereby called upon to send in
to the undersigned, on or before the first day
of February, 1917, your claim to part of the
estates of ARTHUR GEORGE KERRI-
SON, late of Christchurch, laborer, who died
on the 20th June, 1914, intestate, and
ALBERT KERRISON, late of Islington,
Christchurch, laborer, who died on the 30th
October, 1914, intestate, failing which such
estates will be distributed among the per-
sons entitled thereto, disregarding your
claims. , .
Dated at Wellington, this 13th day of
July, 1916.
J. W. MACDONALD, Solicitor to the
Public Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
aaa aaa
Baa baa
Baa aaa
sss'ts?
■■■
aaw
aaa
aa
• ••
aaa
■
■ • u ■
-f
rtsa
“So Long till Monday”
Week-ends full of pleasure are the lot of the
man who owns an
Sndim
CATALOG "D” WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE : Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Ply. Ltd .
109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY ; Milledge Bros. Ltd.
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE ; Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets
ADELAIDE
Eyes & Crowle Ltd..
75-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd ,
Charles Street.
PERTH : Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency,
Hay Street.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
COMFORT PLUS SMART APPEARANCE
Itigney Shoes fit your feet perfectly, which
means COMFORT. They are made from
the best materials, and retain their smart
shape until worn out.
We illustrate a Patent Calf Oxford Shoe
with Wing Cap and latest Perforations. A
very high grade made-to-order style.
Price - 30|-
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
"The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE-
m
More
Miles
from
Dunlops!
You'll be well
Satisfied
with the
Latest ....
DUNLOPS!
They are better now than they
have ever been. We have overcome
difficulties of manufacture due sole-
ly to shortage of chemicals
and solvents owing to war con-
ditions, and the result is that to-day
DUNLOP TYRES
have regained their superiority for
Wear, Reliability and Econ-
omy, and they still cost you consid-
erably less than imported tyres. Test
the latest “Dunlop” against
any tyre on the market and
we are confident that the result
w 11 convince you that it will cost
less to run your car wholly shod
with '‘JDunlops.”
Slocked all Sizes at Garages and Agents
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States & N.T.
ft
-C9
Military considerations may not permit us
to say that war profits are making some Fat
men fatter ; but it may be still permissible for
us to mention that times are getting harder
and harder for the poor people who have to
ride in motor-cars. During the first six
months of last year imported motor chassis
cost them £151,974; in the corresponding
fraction of this year they had to pay
£381,428, two-thirds of which went to the
Yankee. For motor-car bodies they paid
£98,846 against £33,536 in 1915. And for
rubber goods, mostly tyres, the bill leaped
from £69.034 to £335,220. These revelatmns
of penury among the workers require looking
into.


• CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. ——At the War.
r
m n
l=?
ts
as
I
D
3
#7*.
. -
iieSHRE
4
MM? S
PAS
mm
STriP.
m&s
—itt
I§|
-
m
**K
\
mi:
m
' rsijk
m a
ini*
■
r
.0
m
m
&&
i^!SgK»sKgj?i
F'
*S5k
****•»&£
&
;jps,
, x /.-"
■%«
7
59
■y#
i
Ml
sS *
I'®
&j*£
«§i
r'
-
m
m
M
mmw f/MMM
■ \ i
?&s>&2' BSI i- v' V \ «»
BBf
&&JT' ~
% 9*
,/J
',f4
r /£f£Jk
V
f . L*»
tK\ via HilMg
> / / /
lAUHm£Mttm4 <
rcSfIPHHH
§\ Vs&f $ 1'
l\m\xW^yi
»Alll|V®» 7
mMmZL
7/
reSiti
r i
wMmsx
mi
mm
Amt. tffffm
■f',. ■/ >^>44jM§raNr
, Ji m&w
wsm
y
aa«gg .*
-
1 :, :
7 ;-
r*6s'»B
vfi
mw/Jm
mm
t*
f J 4
S
rri
p
/ is
y
L.
b /
er
wi.
fm
wjffwM
mi
'~%-
om
l. y*y; % , { /••' /.- «
O gy / / J
u 1 7 //f
f' H
■
r
p syw
n
Cobra,” Tsho. Boot Polish.
Chund er Loo,
Of* Akim Foo,
/fr
Bombs the charoina
O O
Germans who
Rush to take the
“COBRA’ trench
■ * - ? j\„-' ■ \
Heres a trick to
Make them blench
Whiz ! The great bi
Catapult
Gives a beautiful
Result
Bang!! The soaring
Bomb arrives
Taking several
Hunnish lives.


“Good Style!”
m
Here is shown a
boot at a moderate
price that has
many of the
Characteristics o f
a mad e-to-order
model. The new
extended shape—
made of best-
quality Patent
Coltsldn, with matt
tops, close-welted
soles.
Two fittings— wide
or narrow — 4
26/0
111 Tan Willow
Calf .. 26/-
Fine GlacS Kid— 4
27/6
Pbr Distinctive Dbbtibeat,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority df cases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penettating the delicate
and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid Must be
removed, and nO treatment that does not aiiti
at this reshit will effect a Cute.
Dr, Parker ’s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial: —-
SEVERE CASE OF RHEUMATISM CURED.
Merino, Vie. — I suffered terrible pain
across the groin, around the loins and hips,
right down to the ankle. I could not sit up
or lie with any comfort. After taking a few
doses of your medicine I could get about. I
am most thankful to yoti for the benefit I
have received from your wonderful medicine.
Hoping that others, will go to yoti for relief
and kindness,—Your gratefully,
DONALD CAMEBETX.
FREE
Write to-day for FREE
SAMPLE and Valuable
Book (postage 3d.) to
F. PARKER,
111 Baking Hfliise, Rawson Place, Sydney.
Where do You Live
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
At ALICE SPRINGS, CENTRAL AUSTRALIA,
At MOSMAN, SYDNEY,
On the NORTH COAST OF TASMANIA,
mm
WHEREVER you are you will be interested in
our product.
We manufacture LOTTOID PORTABLE
CEILING & WALL-BUILDING SHEETS.
They are the last word in this class of Building
Material. Australian Manufacture by an Australian
Company from Australian and New Zealand I' a ' v
materials. Used by the Commonwealth and State
Governments and leading architects and builders
everywhere.
Patents No. 15744 12/3/’l5.
Patents No. 47450 17/9/’l5.
Reg. Trade Mark LOTTOID, No. 17957.
SEND AT ONCE FOR SAMPLE “ M " AND PRICE LIST
MELBOURNE (Patentees & Manufacturers) Lottoid Pty.
Ltd., 119-123 Hoddle St. Richmond.
BRISBANE : C. L. Sadgrove. Courier Buildings, Queen St.
HOBART : Builders Supply Co., Ltd., 160 Collins St.
LAUNCESTON: Harrison Bros. & Co., Patterson St.
ADELAIDE)
PERTH /
South & West Australian readers send
direct to Melbourne.
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hair
and Stimulated Its Growth by a Simple
Home Recipe.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process, made
the following statement: “Any lady or gen-
tleman can darken their grey or faded hair,
Stimulate its growth and make it soft and
glossy with this simple recipe, which they
can mix at home. To half-pint of water add
loz. of bay rum and one small box of Orlex
Compound. These ingredients can be pur-
chased at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair every other day until the
grey hair is darkened sufficiently, then every
two weeks. This mixture relieves scalp
troubles and is excellent for dandruff and
falling hair. It does not stain the scalp, is
not sticky or greasy and does not rub off.
It will make a grey-haired person look 10 to
20 years younger.”— Advt. [3
An Acknowledged Fact
It is admitted in all quarters that British Machinery is Superior in
Design, Material and Workmanship.
Guy Lorries Excel All Others
Built by a Practical Engineer Motorist with years of both Road and
Workshop Experience, they contain Special Improvements which
economise in Petrol and Tyres, Reducing Upkeep by 25 per cent.
30cwt. and 2-ton Models fitted with Electric-lighting System Complete.
30cwt„ Chassis Complete £725
2-Ton, „ £825
SOLE AGENTS:
GARRATTS, LTD.,
ALTOK McNEIL, General Manager.
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET,
148-150 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
Photo: Wrather A Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
WA
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the. effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. hor
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity eertainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
00
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
vou read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New N ovelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
at
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the ease than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. HutcHinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Fax” ; Finding that the awful “Story of
the Rosary” didn’t gee, the J.C.W. manage-
ment resorted to a cheap, claptraptious device
for attracting simple sectarian patronage.
Between the second and third acts the cur-
tain was raised on a weird song-picture. A
heart, shaped like a bullock s vital organ, and
outlined with colored lights, appeared on a
White sheet. The blessed heart bore one or
two holy pictorial embellishments as well as
the words of the song beginning “The hours
I Spent with you, dear heart.” Confronted
by this amazing* poster the audience was re-
galed With a melodious rendering of the song
by a voice from the gallery. It sounded like
a choir-boy’s singing, and may have been in-
tended to suggest either the Kingdom ot
Heaven or the Tivoli Follies.
The National Amphitheatre, Bourke-street,
Melbourne, long devoted to pictures, has
been severely dealt with internally and re-
modelled to get it ready for a grand reopen-
ing Under the new name of The Palace about
the middle, of. October.. The Fuller firm,
which originally built the Amphitheatre for
vaudeville* alleged to have spent £20,000
in providing it with a fresh inside,
Alice Crawford, the Bendigo beauty
actress. Was married in London the other
day to Gebrge Valentine Williams, a jour-
nalist who has a commission in the Irish
Guards. He was ordered to join his regi-
ment a few hours before the Voice had
arranged to breathe o’er Eden; but when
he explained matters a genial colonel gave
■him permission to lose himself for a week.
“Jean S.”: “Iledda Gabler” will be the
leading feature of Gregan McMahon’s next
season, commencing at Melbourne Playhouse
on September 16. This is the first Reper-
tory production of “Hedda,” which was last
given in Melbourne in 1900, when Nance
O’Neil was found much too plentiful for the
part, At the Playhouse Hedda will have a
more petite representative in Eily Malyon.
whilst McMahon will dodge between the
decanter and the water-tap as the irrespon-
sible author. In a revival of “Qumneys
to follow, Gregan will replace Styan as the
curio-dealer, but Miss Malyon will play
Mrs. Quinhey as before.
“Chow Chin Chow” is the title of a new
play to be produced by Oscar Asche and his
Lily, and as London has already approved of
“The Yellow Jacket” and “Mr. Wu,” it has
a chance. As a stage production (in which
department Asche particularly shines) it is
to go one or two better than “Kismet on
this side of the show alone foOOO is to be
spent.
“8.J.”: In his just-published remi-
niscences J. E. Vedrenne, of the Court
Theatre, supplies glimpses of a G.B.S. who
is not all Pshaw. A young dramatist,
Robert Vernon Harcourt, had a play, A
Question of Age,” put on at the C ourt, but
after the second matinee the management,
concluding that the thing was not likely
to benefit the box-office, decided to substi-
tute a revival of Shaw’s “Major Barbara.
Shaw inquired “Whaffor?” and was told.
“What Would be the difference in the tak-
ings?” he asked. Vedrenne told him that
too. The amount Was substantial, but
G.B.S. declared that if they would keep on
the Harcourt production he would make up
the difference, on the ground that it was
one of Harcourt’s first efforts and he was
a young man who deserved encouragement.
“Circle” : Goldin will strike trouble some
night if he doesn’t change his brand of
humor. The last night I saw him he induced
three soldiers to go up and be made game
of. The simple public expects a conjurer
to be a smarty with the curious ones who
accept his platform invitations; but the
wise fakir knows when to stop. Goldin
apparently doesn’t. Two of his three soldier
subjects took their medicine submissively;
but the third warrior—a red-haired man
with a cayenne temper —got nasty and
looked more dangerous than Goldin’s caged
tiger. My attention was right off the funny
tricks of stout little Horace before the fool-
ing was over. I was watching the red-haired
Rilljim fidgeting in his chair and wondering
what sort of dreadful illusion he would
work with the illusionist if he made the
tigerish spring he was meditating.
“Alex. Outback”: It has always been a
puzzle to me Why Philip Newbery did not
become a famous gramophone star. His
voice, because of its perfect production,
poise, placing, crystal clearness, color and
richness, would have reproduced wonderfully
well. By the way, when will some intelli-
gent firm make a fortune by putting gramo-
phone song-accompaniments (piano, banjo,
orchestral, piano and violin) on the market?
Amateur singers and their friends would
then be set up for life.
“H. 0.” : There is a cry full of agony for
picture plots, and a Yankee firm will give
£2OO each for a hundred, Owing to the
weakness of their stories many of the longer
pictures screened nowanights contain more
padding than plot. In a 5000 ft. film there
is frequently 1000 ft. of “titles” —remarks
flung on the screen to explain a hiatus in the
story ; hints of what is about to happen and
scraps of dialogue. .V few have contained
almost as much reading matter as pictorial
stuff, the stories being told on the principle
adopted by the amateur black-and-white
artist who draws two figures and then prints
50 words to tell what the two are doing
there. People visit film shows to see action
pictorially represented, and the men who
cater for’ them know they won’t be patrons
long if they don’t get it.
AN UNJUST PROPOSAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ere the rehearsal had begin 1
They met, a motley crowd —-
The men who caper on the stage
And form the mob. Just now their rage
Was very real and loud.
“We don’t have champagne suppers and
We don’t smoke bob cigars!”
Cried one, a news-sheet in his hand ;
“A super-tax ! It beats the band !
Why can’t they tax the stars?”
VICTORIA,
HARRISON O.


wmmm:
TEETH
BY FAB
3
A
HZ.
, The Best is not
-too good for Baby
There are many medicines for the various ail-
ments of the Baby. A great number of these
ailments arise from one cause —Teething. The
medicine that attacks all the symptoms of teeth-
ing is the best and only standby the mother has
•at this troublesome time.
Fishers Teething
Powders
have been made in Sydney for the past forty
years and have become established as a most
efficacious and trustworthy remedy to employ
during dentition. They are the one medicine
necessary to every home that has a baby. Give
Fishers Teething Powders should your baby
show any of the following symptoms: Restless
at night, Feverishness, Diarrhoea, Constipation,
Nervous Excitability. Flushed Face, or Pers-
peration about the head. We guarantee them
not to contain Opium, Morphia, Calomel, nor
any injurious ingredients. Sold in boxes, 20
Powders, 1/-; 60 powders, 2/6
Buy the Best for Baby
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY, N.B.W.
F. 15.T.P
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees "of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illnstrated
booklet and •particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
_______ MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress. __
CHRISTIE^
SPEC/AUEE
TWO
L/A/EP
kirt 5
S
WRITE
FO.R
CATALOGUE
A np
PATTERNS
CHRISTIES
Tie STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
1C /WAITER S T NEWCASTLE
h/
i a
;
lill
■I ' ■
■
m
11
mum
'A
©
©
0
/S VST7//S t^v,
I/A
m
'/lliiiiii/liiiii/iiltiimwwii/iiiiiiiniiiiiillliiwiiii//////
m
m
m
Guard Against Substitution
The “ VALET ” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors,
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia :
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN. —
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.
m
BAPMET^H
RUBBER
A EEL 5
Made in Austr^lid.'-
GO Your
way in QdroforT
Why nifelce advantage of the comfort
offered by Barnet Glass Rubber Heels ?
The springy, resilient-rubber stops all jars
and shocks to the spine and dduftas the
pleasures of walking. Barnet Gl4s£Rlibber
Heels are' made of the purest ifnaferials
a view to giving faithful
service. on "Barnet Glass."
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Nr
SAFETY FIRST
SUNSHINE Safety Lamp
300
Candle Power and Costs
only One Third of a Penny
per hour.
No Wick, No Chimney, No
Dirt, No Smoke, No Odor,
No Worry, No Mantle
Trouble, No Complicated Mechanism.
TURN IT ON ITS HEAD!
TURN IT ON ITS SIDE!
Can’t Blow Out, Blow Up, Diminish,
Beak, or Splutter!
Brightest, Lightest, Safest, Cheapest,
Surest, Simplest, Strongest
Combination Table & Hanging Lamp
ever Invented.
All styles stocked for indoor and out-
door use. Why instal an expensive
lighting plant?
So great has been the demand for Sunshine
Lamps, that we have been unable to supply
all orders. New shipments are to arrive
shortly, so let us book your orders now, as
they must be filled in rotation.
Call and see these beautiful Lamps in opera-
tion, or write for full particulars.
- *.
\ \ "
\
HALLETT BROS
14c Wynyard Lane
(One Minute from C.P.0.),
Sydney.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xame and address must appear on the MSS. -Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returnee
unless stamps accompany.
Dull Young Brisbaneite: Quite true, but
ever heard of the Censorship ? That’s what it’s for.
....Young Nick: Thin, dull verse.... Wager: No
statistics on the subject; but we suspect the Chow of
having the bigger spade in the vegetable industry....
J.T.H.: Don’t deal in photos, of the Kaiser.... Sub:
Don’t know; and if we did we wouldn’t be allowed
to tell y0u.... Squib: (1) They were not considered
good enough ; (2) cannot acknowledge pars. .. .Arthur
G.: The Bulletin pays for everything it prints ; cut
out the pars., paste them on paper and state at the
side of each par. date, page and column in which it
appeared. ... N. Free.: Hasn’t appeared yet; probably
one of the casualties of the war... .W.S.P.: Why
don’t you take the trouble to make your meaning as
plain as your handwriting?... .Prisoner’s Lament:
Dreary thing. .. .Hilary B.: “The Dream” is a nice,
sloppy storyette told with no skill. Other represents
a good Australian as an idiot abroad.... Rehtrool:
Here’s one mystic fragment:
The old brown bear crept from his lair
In search of a wedge, sharp, long and square,
Which he used subtly on the stump,
Till into the breach the Kaiser fell plump ;
The bees, buzzing forth, in anger rife
Attacked the Kaiser and joined the strife,
Then sealed for ever his mortal clay
Which, with his kingdom, had passed away.
M.S.K.: Not up R.W.: It isn’t verse; and
what does it amount to, anyhow?... .E. 8.5.: Insane
verse rejected. . . .S.M.: No interest. .. .Personal
Polly: You have no idea of verse or grammar or any
other blessed thing. .. .Lottie D.: Plain fake....
M.G.M.E.: Improve “Mothers of Men” and try us
again. . . .J.R.: If those are really your last lines they
deserve print:
Never more will rhyme and rhythm
Buy for me a Sunday ’at;
I'm as happy as a sausage
In a frying-pan of fat.
. ...G.R.H.: “August” not up; “Music” held for
inquest... .K.E.C.: As far as it can be read, the
“Coward” is a crude telling of a yarn that would
require a lot of skill to do properly.. .A.C.: “Sample
Room” doesn’t read right.... George Scott: Pleasant
little scrap of history, but doesn’t make a story....
Gosh: Doesn’t strike us. You haven’t enough skill
to take liberties.... E.M.K.: Has points, but too
crude Hub: AVon’t do H.A.M.: You mix your
singular and plural in a wild way.... AVarradulla:
You don’t quite express your ideas and your
rhymes are shaky. . . .V.F.K.: Weak thought moving
like an untamed buffalo trying to climb a ladder. . . .
Nero: Old yarn in badly-fitting whiskers. .. .Casual
Cove: Too clumsy and obscure.. . .Nannie: An idea
in it, but too rough. . . .R.G.: Don’t think you get the
blackfellow feeling into it. .. . J.J.0.: Devil and
Kaiser yarns fall as thick as cigarette-butts in this
office. . . .B.R.AY.: Kitchener verse p00r... .R.H.C.:
There’s feeling in it, but 33 repetitions of the word
Laverton in 25 lines is over the odds... .M.P.T.:
Poor verse; miserable philosophy. .. .S.A.K.: Falls
over its feet at the fourth stanza.... Jumbler: Send it
to Hughes. He’ll appreciate it.... Olive: Not quite.
R.E.N.: Very lame C.1.D.: Catalogue of
widows’ misses. .. . J.G.J.: Not up. . . .N. 8.: Bright
notion clumsily worked.... Rushbush: Interesting to
know you lost your “leftern 1eg.”... .St. J.: Misses,
but not by much. .. .A.C.; That “Corporal Q.” yarn
has possibilities. Couldn’t you put more life in
it?... .G.C.: “Call of Freedom” flat. .. . J.C.H.:
Quite a decent school essay.... Black Hawk:
Well, he’s spoken now AV.T.S.: Your caravan
wants greasing. .. .Ral Warren: AVe certainly didn t
publish it, unless a slice of it appeared in this
column as a horrible example. .. .J.H.: Well, study
the “Busy Bee,” but keep him away from u 5....
Simer Euqsilev: Horrible. .. .E. 8.5.: We could get
more music out of a currant bun. ... Spreader: AA e
absolutely refuse to “get a mud-fat Berkshire boar.”
11.AV.5.: Both just fail N.A.F.: Your hand is
feeble. .. .J.E.R.: You may succeed. A dog with
D.T.s is a good beast to start with... .AV.M.N.: No
interest or originality... .E.J.M.: Referred to in
another column... .C.L.: Averse not up; article
pimpled with absurdities.... L.H.: Moral of “Joy
Bells” appears to be that your highly respectable
atmosphere breeds hoggish frauds... .M.A.: Ghastly
dinner item rejected. .. .R.A.S.: Vivid ; but too
horribly suggestive... .Geo. R. H.: Doesn’t move us.
.. . .S.C.: Verse bumps and thought lumbers
Franklin: Your bedside manner is excellent, but it
doesn’t interest. .. .C.G.8.: Oh, leave the “cold-
footcd warrior” stunt and talk sense. .. . A.E.R.:
Commonplace.... lolanthe: Sounds pretty selfish....
Otia: “Southern Spring” might have passed but
for a bad rhyme. .. .A.G.C.: Nothing in it
Tara Devi.... That jingle of rhymes falling all
over one another weakens your thought to futility.
. ...J.J.W.: Is the “pretty Dora” thing a telegram
in verse?. .. .E.S.F.: “Life’s Ship” is on the rocks
from the start.... J.K.8.: Conundrum noted. Send
the answer next year Stiggins: Have seen worse
first attempts. .. .D.D.: Not much originality in
that. .. .F.C.A.K.: Don’t wonder you want to side-
step this column. .. .E.AY.: “Hun's Paradise” feeble
stuff. . . .Acock Green: Misses. . . .H. 8.8.: No good.
. ...S.L.: Slovenly scraps of artificial mirth....
Albion: Take the awful thing away E.M.E.:
Poor verse all out of tune.... Burra wong: Good in-
tentions; not so good verse L.L.: You may have a
good case for “Tommy turned down,” but, judging by
your handwriting, you were too tired to make it out.
~.. Cooranbong: Now what is there in that that
anybody should want to read ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.U.11.: Thanks; will try one of them with it.
But at least you can never accuse this paper of
having made little Billy one of its id 015.... 0.L.:
All lack point... ,L.L.Q.: Can’t use it.... Retort
D.: Blown out... . J.E.F.: One is just dustbox wit
and the other is a drunk and a scrawl which we
haven’t the time to decipher G.M.M.: You forgot
to enclose the joke H.S.W.: Return fare is being
u5ed....C.1.: Profanity wouldn’t save it W.K.:
Alphabet is hard enough to read on original drawing,
Ic isn’t what we want and it wouldn’t reproduce
decently Drew: Ruled 0ut.... C. 11.: Hades is
papered with such things.... Pat F.: Du 11.... B.B.:
Forced humor and it reminds us of all sorts of
things T. Raff: Horrible M.T.: The sad
scratches of the beginner F.AV.: AVhy drag that
old jest from its tomb? H.A.G.: No E.S.McG.:
Skulls without gags are not a marketable product in
these days when the earth is littered with bones..:,
J. 8.: “Enclosed please find a snifter sketch of a
toffy slacker talking to a fine tart. Snifter
biffed her Joyce S.: AVe’ll try to forget them
Ned AA r .: Sorry can’t use the joke against the artist.
....K.A.: Too drunk —or not drunk enough.


The Bes t—Most Economical
Watch is a
ROTfIERHAMS
ENGLISH LEVER
Gold Medal Watch.
s
It will last a lifetime. Prove a
valued friend, is most durable,
dust proof, and saves repair bills.
Made in All Varieties.
If a less expensive Watch is
required buy a
ROTHERHAMS SELECTED
SWISS WATCH.
Examined by Rotherham’* Experts.
&
&
"AMSROTME
A
m
s©Bd3
mm
WOTHERMAMSROi
iROTHCRMAMSRCr
ROTNCRHAHSn^
NOTE ! It will have this label on
the back.
Sold by Jewellers throughout
Australasia.
For List of Agents apply to—
P.O. Box 420, Sydney (English).
P.O. Box 2292, Sydney (Swiss).
P.O. Box 870, Wellington, N.Z.
«*
'a
a
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
There is no need to ques-
tion the purity of your milk
supply if you use Horliek’s.
In addition, it has the advan-
tage of being more nourish-
ing than ordinary cows’
milk. It proves an invaluable
Food-Drink to infants, in-
valids, and in fact all who
need building up.
Sample sent on receipt of 2d.
Sample
will
be sent on
receipt
of 2d. In
stamps.
11l
©
SSp-skmii'l
Hutchinson
& Co. Ltd.,
26, Jamieson
Street,
Sydney,
N'S.W.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
C. TROEDSON, Director.
One pull, one dip, one push, and
the reservoir fills in a flash.
One fill suffices to write 20,000 words.
One turn of the screw regulates the ink flow
One self-contained pen —needing no brittle glass
filler or inky rubber squirt.
One & unique—that’s the
m
m
YOU SIMPLY
UNSCREW IT
AND
PULL IT OUT,
Onoto
Pen
Filling
Safety
Fountain
Price. 14, 6 & upwards at all
Stationers, Jewellers and
■tores. Booklet free on applic-
ation to Thos. I)e La Rue and
Co.. Ltd.. 182 Bunhill Bow.
London, E. 0., or the
Australasian Managing Agents, Korinas Baker and Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
GAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern —you just
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST .models just landed.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents:
m
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
GRAND OPERA
IN YOUR OWN HOME.
Brilliant triumphs by celebrities faithfully reproduced on
Registered Trade Mark.
His Master s Voice
Records
Hear your favorites of the present opera-season. These are
but a few from a big list: —
1L TROVATORE.
2-054007. Miserere Scene, with chorus
Caruso and Alda
054198. Ai Nostri Monti
Caruso and Homer
TRAVIATA.
2-054055. Parigri o cara
Bori and McCormack
058108. Ah tors e lui
Melba
RA boheme.
2-053025. Mi chiamans Mimi
Melba
054129. O Suave faneiulla
Melba and Caruso
RIGOLETTO.
053141. Caro nome
Tetrazzini
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.
053144. Mad Scene
Tetrazzini
GIOCONDA. r ’\
3-053104. Suicidio, Act 4
Destmn
CARMEN. i-
-033059. Habanera - X ,
1 Calve
And Hundreds
:: of others ::
Complete list includes ALL operas and all famous artistes.
Enjoy Grand Opera at home.
Ask your dealer to play the records you wish to hear.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET -SYDNEY
mms
■■
ABBEY
SHOES
You will always find that it pays
in the end to buy articles of the
very highest quality. Therefore, it
will pay you to wear ABBEY
SHOES —the footwear that is most
distinctive in style, and gives the
longest service.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow
Calf Bal.
Price - 30/-
Also in Fatent Coltskin, with Dull
Calf Leg's, 307-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
m
GAME GETTER GUN
Two Guns In One
Upper Barrel .22
Lower Barrel .44 or .410
Rid of the Rabbit Pest
—with the aid of the“ Game
Getter.” Easily carried about
with you at your work. Folds
compactly and slips into shoul-
der holster—Free with gun.
Snaps open firm and rigid —in a
moment. Barrels 12-15 or 18 inch.
Shoots ball or scatter shot. Accurate
—carefully tested and sighted before
leaving our hands. A gun for every
lover of the great “out o’ doors.”
Brings down all small game, even an-
telope—truly a “GAME GETTER."
Ask Your Dealer
to show you this gun. See it,
swing it to your shoulder that
you may know the "feel” of
the biggest little gun on earth,
Illustrated folder on the" GAME
GETTER GUN” or catalogue of
Marble’s 60 Sporting Specialities op
both sent postpaid.
Marble Arms & Mfg. Co,
611 Delta Avenue
Gladstone, Michigan, U. S- A, i
Cable Address "MARBLE” Gladstone j
Australian & New Zealand Representatives i
HARRY MOLPEN, Box 1349, Sydney l
<isr>>
The Lake Breeze Motor
ill
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial. handsome,
quiet, Spperb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is' portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Used the
World Over
m
MOTOR
...CARS


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENG LAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin«s-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regukr sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping: for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
(Extends to Brisbane only.)
Leaves Sydney Sept. 9.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 13.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 16.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 20.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 23.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W. A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 15.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 16.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking-, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Dirf.ctors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir RORERT PIIILP, IC.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head yOffice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
NEW
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and
SOUTH WALKS.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL RANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
Subscribed £i,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets. Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTOR’S — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarwooo,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F.
Todman, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
All new business since 189$ specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W T . V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa. China, the East.
The Commercial Banking 80.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1.875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairmaii
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq.; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birc h i n Lane.
Directors; F. H. Dangar, Esq.; H on. 11. S. Littleton
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F, A. Scrivener//
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of ffeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. • • • • 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. -. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Sanida, Great
liritain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
k at Interest fpr
' fixed periods.' sid
transacts all other
usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
PRAIRIRS, GREAT LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
mm
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts. Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIV CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 14th September. *MOANA, 12th October.
Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—7th September, sth October.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America—
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Winter T
Fiji
••• Levuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
... ' •- - • *♦•' jr ... ,> •. ■ ■ r ■
Something' Unique in
' ■
mm- . >
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
m
£3,500,000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9,675,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. .lames T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, U.M.U., M.H.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black* M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Rinnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Killed iff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office -29 Threadneedle St , E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian Suites, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
-T, RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
m
JBank ot Sustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad'. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Department
1 /'
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 9°/
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
I\M ivS KELL. Deputy Governor. June. 1916 DENISON' MILLER. Governor
16,097 NEW DEPOSITORS IN ONE MONTH.
That is the number of accounts opened during-July in the
Government Savings Bank
f of New South Wales
—The STATE Savings Institution.
All these depositors have taken the FIRST STEP towards building up a SAYINGS
BANK BALANCE.
REGULAR DEPOSITS, accumulating with INTEREST at 3PER ANNUM
on every complete £ up to £5OO, will provide their RESERVE AGAINST
EMERGENCIES.
This Bank has 132 Branches in the City of Sydney, the principal Suburbs and
Country Towns, as well as 500 Agencies.
Government Guarantee for Security of all Deposits.
Head O&ice, By oi’der of the Commissioners.
11 Moore Street, Sydney,
31st August, 1916.
J. H. DAVIES,
Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Sept. 22 and Oct. 20.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, Sept. 9.
-PARINGA, Sept. 16.
RUPARA, Sept. 23.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL, & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY’.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,"
“Riverina,” "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with tireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEAV ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS. .
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
5 A MOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydnev:—
SEPT. 13, OCT. 4, OCT. 25, NOV. 15.
a ppIy : — OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEV. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via' Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —-steamer to Munviiltnnbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. •: (< s- : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 251 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Badness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Kogea
Sulpholineis prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd.,Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.


,'L J 1
m mm.
■a
tm ■
f U
m
1*
.
US
a
<>>Ar
i
?K
Q^Xjjy
i
8
* ms
\
There is no quesfion of chance
if you buy MICHELINS , you
get the best quality every time.
A client writes: —
“ There is no hoping you will strike
a good tyre when buying one, they
are all good”
MICHELIN has made great efforts
to keep up supplies during the War,
and has succeeded.
A regular supply of MICHELINS —
the famous French Tyres —is at
your disposal.
MICHELIN TYRES
Can be obtained
at all the leading garages .
A. 1617
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Telephone 7260,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Telegrams—-
Australia,
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
mm
A. N. A.
£3 10 - to £lO.
Guaranteed 15 Years.
We do not employ can-
vassers to waste your time.
Come direct to- us and save
money by securing a better
machine at a lower price.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
m
nil
13*!
Hot breezes of summer —driving rains of the off-season —
won’t penetrate
Certain-teed
"roofin g
This product represents the culminating effort of the largest
manufacturers of their kind in the world —it will give splendid
service and the cost is moderate.
Leading architects the world overspecify Certain-teed. Prominent
buildings, large and small —residences, stands, hotels, booths and
bungalows—are roofed with Certain-teed.
Obtain samples from your local distributor. He car-
ries a full stock. Orders will be filled promptly.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. CO.
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products.
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Psunts Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: New York and San Francisco. U. S. A. Cable Address: ‘Genromco’.
FACTORIES: York. Pennsylvania; Marseilles and E. St. Louis, Illinois. U. S. A.
Australian Office: Perpetual Trustee Builiing, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local stocks carried by « ohn Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd.
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ; Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic
%
IT’S SO EASY
shaving with the “Plum.” All other Razors
pale into insignificance by comparison.
You’ll stop experimenting once you invest
in
The “PLUM” RAZOR
for there's no other blade so finely tempered.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years,
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER SO YEARS.
V\case for
V/incarnis *
/ > \
ex'//*
\ •
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to
an intricate network of tele-
graph Wires Controlled and
nourished by a portion of the
brain—known as the nerve
centres —the delicate thread-
like nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the
body So long as the nerve
centres are capable of con-
tinually supplying nourish-
ment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong
and healthy. But directly
the nerve centres become
weakened by overwork,
worry or anxiety, they are
unable to transmit the neces-
sary nourishment, and the
perves become worn out and
"on edge.” Then it is that
a sudden sound- makes you
" jump " —you get irritable —
you suffer from neuralgia—
you are restless and de-
pressed. In this condition
there is nothing to equal
m
Because, being a powerful
nerve food, ‘ Wincarms ' gets
right to the root of the trouble,
and. by creating a supply of
riew nerve force, stimulates
and re-vitalises the whole
nervous system. Try
' Wincamis ’ for ‘ Nerves It
is wonderful Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in Eng-
land by COLEMAN & CO.,
Ltd., Wincarnis Works. Nor-
wich. You can buy * Wincar-
nis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-
and 6/6, but if you experience
any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distribut-
ing Agents, Fa-sett& Johnson,
5/7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORUD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
***s*&&
DAIMLER
fIoTOR Carriages
(Jowerciai, Vehicles ~
Agricultural, Tractors
m DAIMLER COMPANY u>
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
For Show CieeSf Metal Slens. Door Plate# and all
polished metal, brass, silver, nickel, etc.
xvvywwv mi t vm iww 'W mil t t r r>
S////.U ui 1 11i11muLiu.1t kuiu.l,ll w i ut.\vN
METAL POLISH
will put a lasting luster on quicker than i
anything else. Safe to use. Convenient
In form. Sold in two size cans by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores.
Look for the Photo on Can
m
3
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AItABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.” ■
“Arabia” Egvptian Henna has the largest sale o.
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia:


Since It Costs No More to insist on having Zanetio
in your Penduplicate books, why not enjoy the per-
fect,' permanent pencopies obtained with such a
minimum of effort? If any difficulty in getting
supplied, either books complete or the sheets alone
furnished by S. B. Zanetic, Zanetio Works, Leicester,
England. ZANETIC is ALL BRITISH ; contains no
foreign dye.— Advt. [2
AVON
TRADE MARK
THe TYR.ES
which increase comfort
and give longer service
at reduced cost.
BRITISH THROUGHOUT
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
Write for Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 498, Elizabeth St., Melbourne. [1
6
The Man Outback!
and the Right
Clothes he may wear
CLOTHES make the man —in the country as well as in the city. They make his life full of joy and comfort or
miserable —depending of course on the kind he buys. . ' •
In the early days the man Outback had to depend on the local storekeeper or itlie passing pedlar. Pay what they
asked, take what they gave —-and look glad. But the parcel post has made all that a thing, of the past. Distance
debars no one from taking advantage of “FINNEY” quality gnd Finney’s low prices. Your post box is our repre-
sentative in your district. t , .
A post-card with your address will bring by return mail our Big Catalogue or either one of the big illustrated
here—without one penny added, because Finney’s pay the Carriage. Try us out on a trial order. - _
There’s a true and tried saying that’s now many years old—and which runs “YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEX ».
The “Rough-rider” Hat.
This is just the hat for every Bushman. Just the hat
to wear when riding through the bush at breakneck
pace. The brim is wide and shady—3 inches—specially
stiffened, cannot flop over the eyes. The strap around
crown can be adjusted to make it fit tight with a
“grip.” Impossible to blow off! The color is a cool,
serviceable Brown and the price is 12/6, no more than
the cost of an ordinary hat.
SPECIAL PRICE 12/6
The Big:
Block,
Brisbane
FINNEY’S,
The “Stockman” Shirt.
The “Stockman” Shirt, as
illustration, is serviceable in
every sense of the term. Can be
worn as a coat or under a coat, fitted
with turn-down collar and two but-
toned-down flap pockets. Our
speciality is a line of Dark Khaki
Oxford Shirting, selected for its
light weight and durable qualities;
5/11 each; 6 for 17/6. i»
Tussore Repp, 5/11. In Soft
Beaverette, 6/11. In heavy Khaki
Drill, 6/11.
The Drapers of Queensland
since 1864.
m
m
m
IN BANANA LAND
The Labor unions have got ’em by the
wool all right in Queensland. A deputation
incidentally told the Minister the other day
that, simply because a certain big union
demanded it, “men were getting ‘dirt money’
who wore starched shirts at their job, and
when they left for home were clean enough
to go to the theatre.” Curiously it wasn’t
any sort of boss, who made this complaint:
it was the small under-dog—the employee
who hasn’t got the luck to belong to a big,
bullying union, and who reckons somebody
else is getting his lawful bone.
Died of wounds iu France, Captain Pat
Hare, well known in Charters Towers and
Mount Morgan as a Methody parson who
could always pack his “chapel” with miners.
Parson Pat went into camp as a sergeant of
Field Artillery, and earned his three stars
chiefly by a splendid capacity for handling men.
South Brisbane Gas Co., which hitherto
did as it pleased, extended its mains where
and when it liked, charged what it would and
supplied any old quality of gas it fancied, is
to have its claws clipped. The City Electric
Light Co. has received a permit to hop over
the bridge into the South Brisbane area and
the old monopoly is knocking at the knees.
“Boro-Belle” : Mackay, having failed with
its big harbor scheme, on account of the
prohibitive cost of a viaduct, has bowed to
the inevitable and decided to barrack for the
natural harbor at its back door, Port Newry,
35 miles away. Twenty-one miles of the
railroad are already constructed, and when
the remaining 14 are supplied the district
will have a landlocked harbor which the
NOT GUILTY.
PEEK (to Meek): “He, he! See him —that ain't his wife! Always got some intrigue
on, he has.”
MEEK (to Peek): “Ah, Brother Peek, lei us he thankful —we have no intrigues.”
largest ships in Australia can enter
Engineer Iveele, of Sydney, when acting on
Mackay’s Outer Harbor Commission five
years ago, strongly supported Port Newry,
which he reckoned could be made perfect
at a fraction of the cost of the front-door
harbor scheme, then estimated to cost a
quarter ot a million.
Wynnum, the watering-place near Bris-
bane, saw red the other day when it learned
that patients from the military venereal dis-
eases camp at Lytton were patronising the
town. So an anxious party, led by the
Mayor, rushed to Home Secretary Huxham
to appeal for protection. But why this sud-
den anxietv to rush Billiim V D into
barbed-wire compounds, whilst thousands of
the civic population in a more or less rotten
state are permitted to hawk the horror with-
out interference? As a matter of fact, ven-
ereal disease in khaki, with its assurance of
expert medical treatment, is far less danger-
ous than the pestilence that stalketh in spats
under the lingering treatment of rapacious
quacks.
The Reiver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, clear the road runs down the hill and out across
the heath,
And at the three cross-roads there stands a gibbet
stark as death;
The wind g-oes whistling round the bones of that
which hangs beneath.
But on a merry summer’s morn my- lady's coach rolls
by ;
The gay postillion cracks his whip ; my lady’s sombre
eye.
Looks straight ahead down that white road that rib-
bons to the sky.
Her little lapdog at her .feet in scarlet collar drest
Car. climb upon her silken knee, or nestle to her
breast....
But black and dry are those wild lips that once her
red mouth prest.
A flight of birds across the moor drifts low o'er
bosomy ways.
A cloud of butterflies comes out on sunshine-girdled
days,
And these are light and pleasant things for any lady’s
gaze. .
But never looks she right nor left beneath these
ardent skies
At hawthorns thick with bloom and bees, for to her
staring eyes
Across that beaten'trail of white a gibbet’s shadow
lie*.
The gossips at St. James’s had a pungent tale last
year;
’Twas whispered loud in ante-room and low to Sover-
eign’s ear,
And rolled a morsel on the tongue of ladies sour and
sere.
The highwayman had snatched, they said, my lady
from my lord,
And ta’en her to some mountain glen to share his
bed and board ;
They tracked his silver stallion’s hoofs bj r pool and
fen and sward.
The King sent down his red-coat men to bring my
lady home;
The Court were chattering for a week like all the
g'eese .in Rome ;
The priest had shrived my lady till her soul was
white as foam.
They seized the madcap highwayman, and, ere thev
hung him high
Above the breaking hawthorn buds that laughed
towards the sky,
They asked him would he pardon crave,•before he
came to die.
But with a. laugh which surely must have spawned
a jest in Hell,
Said he: “Go speak her Ladvsliip if she her lord can
tell
That any lips beside my own have kissed her mouth
so well!”
My lord grew purple in the face, lie stamped and
raved and swore,
And to the open, windblown heath the highwayman
they bore
And hanged him on a common tree where footpads
hanged before.
But oh, he had a princely air, and many a blue-
eyed maid
Crept to the ingle fire that night, of wandering
afraid,
Because the wind among ihe chains like ghostly
harpers played.
And shriven of another’s sin my lady rides to town :
My lord has bought her golden shoes and many a
costly gown ;
My lady to St. James’s goes to live the gossip down.
But on this merry summer’s morn, across the bud-
ding leas,
With absent fingers she has drawn the lapdog to
her knee s,
Remembering traitor lips that left such burning
memories.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 2, 1916.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
Our Exes, have been busy keeping a firm
hand on the tiller of State all the week; but
on Wednesday Lady Goold Adams snatched
a few minutes to preside at the annual meet-
ing of the Lady Musgrave Lodge, and on
Tuesday night both dropped in to say
encouraging words to the Sal’army at its
annual fair.
To-day was to have seen a huge opefl-air
coneert "in aid of the Do Without Week
funds, but rain postponed the show until next
Saturday.
Evelyn Scotney lifted a liquid soprano iu
Her Majesty’s ou Monday and Wednesday
evenings. Her husband, Howard White, also
exercised a fine basso. They were the least-
advertised people who have hit this hamlet
for a long time, and they had left for Sydney
before music-lovers realised they had arrived.
Lt.-Col. Robertson, writing from France,
mentions that his boys are quite at home
at the new kind of warfare they are finding
there. He also adds that not a single com-
plaint has been made concerning his Bill-
jims’ behavior in France.
The Paul Dufault Concert Co., just
returned from the North, is making music to
packed houses. Its last season in Brisbane
broke all records. One night 200 people had
to be given a perch on the stage, every other
part of the house being occupied.
While the Melbourne Labor Council has
decided not to help the Federal Government
in its scheme to introduce Yankee sweating
notions from TJ.S. factories, leading Labor
women here consider that the picnic party
should include a capable woman to gather
some particulars concerning women workers.
The employment of female labor, they urge,
will he one of the knottiest of post-war
problems.
Lieut. Reg. Verry, who was a sergeant in
the 9th, and after being wounded at Gal-
lipoli got a commission, has induced Vera, a
daughter of architect Atkinson, to take a
serious interest in domestic problems.
Killed in France, Lieut. Victor Worry, good
athlete, good friend and gallant officer. He
was a son of Mr. T. S. Worry, of Mary-
borough, and an old Maryborough Grammar
School boy.
A Brisbane woman called on a neighbor tin-
other day and borrowed 30 shillings. A
week later the cash was returned, with an
explanation. “You see,” said the frugal
soul, “I might have drawn it out of the bank,
but I would have lost the interest.” A
frenzied calculation revealed that the interest
amounted to about a ha’penny. And yet
they say we don’t know how to economise!
Mrs. Wm. Smyth, just back from the Euro-
pean International Congress of Women, can
claim to be a true war-prophet. Seven years
ago she clamored to deaf Australian ears
that Germany was out for war and told how
she had seen in public places in Germany
spittoons moulded into caricatures of British
statesmen.
Lovely woman had the day of her life
when a huge six o’clock deputation bom-
barded Premier Ryan. She came by cab.
motor, tram and boot, and bad a formidable
male following. She was largely Liberal,
yet numerously Labor, and when she didn’t
appeal she threatened. “Mr. Ryan, you have
a little boy of your own. We have, grown-up
sons—and this is why we are here,” was one
sweet argument. “We don’t want any ‘ifs.’
We want six o’clock closing and we’re going
to have it.” “Don’t be frightened of your
party, Mr. Ryan; we women can make 01-
mar any party, and we’re out for six o’clock
closing.” And so the thing went on, until
Premier Ryan promised an Initiative and
Referendum Bill —and then all was fury.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The Ryan Government is going into- the
Bung industry, and is enthusiastically spend
ing £70,000 hard borrowed cash on three
beershops. Justifying the enterprise, a lead
ing politician remarked the other day that
“anybody can make money in a pub.” Scad-
dan said so, too, a couple of years ago;
nevertheless the Westralian State pubs lost
£471 last year.
Extract from an old Brisbane resident's
letter to the Courier :
Mr. L. Bernays lived there and cultivated prickly -
pear. They seemed fond of prickly-pear in those
days—especially in the form of jam. Two years
previous to this I saw a team ploughing at Chin-
chilla. and a spring-cart with pear leaves following.
Some of the men were setting the prickly-pear in
tiie furrow. I rode up and. asked them if they knew
what they were .doing. They said they were only
making a fence. I said: “Tell your boss the birds
will carry it all over the place and ruin his run in a
few years.” My words came true.
To-day there are prickly-pear fences all over
31,000,000 acres. Yet the vegetable hasn’t
behaved like that everywhere. Fifty years
ago or more prickly-pear was introduced to
S. Aus., too. It certainly couldn’t have
been much, if anything, after the curse was
introduced to Queensland. A good deal of it
was planted near Glenelg, the original S.
Australian landing place; and it was a
pretty general practice to plant alongside a
post-and-rail fence either a “prickly bush”
or a prickly-pear hedge. There are-, still a
few traces of the latter, but though they
threatened to he a curse 30 yeal-s ago they
apparently gave up the idea of spreading,
and have either died or been rooted out. On a
well-known station in the north of S. Aus. a
“spineless cactus” has been growing for very
many years, and has made no progress
either. ’ Apparently it is the very same thing
that Agricultural Departments won’t admit
to Australia, though most Botanic Gardens
already have a sickly specimen or two.


The Growth of an Australian Industry
r dU
V
'/
*s tat
V
o
v/f.
>N
(T
\
@3
uses
ii»h»
UsiairS
M
%
n% idm
V
m
cse
>==
52
iSS
;H=S
35!
ill
Y
OJ ///
O
r °/v.
s
OIL ME&.
&
m
m
PAINTERS!
FARMERS!
By insisting on Meggitt’s Linseed Oil yon Help to make
Australia Prosperous.
The Best Cattle Fodder on the Australian MarKet is
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal.
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Ltd.. Melbourn
Wm. Adams & Co., Perth ;F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., emg on,
riEGGITT LTD., Linseed Oil manufacturers, Parramatta, N.S.W.


Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter's Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
m
CARTERS!
m
HTTLE
IVER
PILLS*
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
Riding Emperors.
Our Celebrated “IRONBARK
Brand,” with standard screwed single
soles and uppers of selected Calf
Leather, fitted with the “A & S” special
ankle protectors. None genuine with-
out “Ironbark Brand” on loops.
Price
14/9
Also in Wallaby Skin, at 18/6 per pair.
Allans Stark Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
6reu 4)oi:.'s:TcU cl
. ftctaatlCthcj
!
Kashira u
un
Of 0. Allen’s
AiXIGAN i
WALMUT
§?AIM.
m
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying Office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors- Hon A W Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; lion. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black,' MLC.; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., lv.C.;
RICHARD TEECE FI A.. F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided' for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
S--5?
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buovancy and freedom. On the top o.f this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy, that they feel just like one’s best-
loved oi 1 pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well-made that they look and, after quite
a lot of wear, continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Bostock No.
P 6472
m
mm
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for tlio name “Bostock" on the soles.
m
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Bostock’s Black Suede Liquid Cleaner__
FOR A VARIETY OF USES.
Keeps Black Suede Shoes equal to new—stains Tan Shoes, and Colored Kid-To;
Boots, black.
IN 4oz. BOTTLES: PRICE 1/-
30STOCK*5 VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney
m
Ye caana do better Sandy McFay,
Than to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ number2A.
When you’re feeling run-down
just a wee bit.
They keep you braced up
and “bonnie” and fit.
For a cheap way of making ye feel quite
content.
Nla conscience ! the siller is very well
spent.
After taking IRON ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
©
Mr. J. Handford, Northwich, -writes IRON ‘Jelloids’ have done me
“ more good than anything I have taken ; they have put new life into me.
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1 2 and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., or. Clarence & Market Sis., Sydney.
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION AND SPORTS.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
m
MIGHT WIN THIS
&.650
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
2nd prize value £3OO, 3rd prize value £2OO,
and 397 other valuable prizes
Prizes Value £3,500
The First Prize last year was won jbyMrs. Barnett, Sydney,
NS W for the modest outlay of ONE SHIIduING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1916.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 9.
To anv person forwarding stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the
will be nostcd. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or
direct from JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
m
m
Apparently the Hun does not see why
the word “Boche” —which merely means
“blockhead” or thereabouts —should have any
restricted application. A French prisoner,
in a new book of reminiscences, describes the
astonishment he felt when a German regi-
ment he met called him a “dirty Boche.”
From a wandering Rhodes scholar: —
You find Australians in the last places you would
think of looking for them. Cycling through the
Severn Yalley (Eng.) I struck the sleepiest village
in that sleepy country, with a red sandstone church,
red-brick cottages with honeysuckle and earwigs all
over them and a semi-torpid population that didn’t
look as if any of it ever went further than the next
village. I went into the inn, which was all of a
piece with the rest of it, and there was a framed
testimonial to the landlord from the inhabitants of
Kimberley (W.A.), setting forth that he had been
one of the pioneers of that hectic region and had
been a leading citizen and a reclaimer of the
wilderness for 40 years. The landlord admitted it
was. all true and said that after 40 years of Kim-
berley he wanted a rest and had got it.
The South African Select Committee on
miners’ phthisis has come to these among
other conclusions: That more frequent,
more night, and more surprise visits by
inspectors are necessary; that every
mine with over 1000 employees should have
an inspector of its own; that systematic
dust-sampling be compulsory; that the
single shift be made compulsory in all
mines except where exemptions are given
by the Government mining engineer.
“T. 0.1.”: There is now for sale in Lon-
don an original autograph letter from
Philip Gidley King, first Governor of Nor-
folk Island, dated March 31, 1793, to Lord
Sydney. Llere is an extract: —
Our crops of wheat and maize have turned out
very far beyond my expectation. We have now 40
weeks’ provisions of the Island produce in our grain-
erys, and when we have done assisting the settlers
(who are doing very well), we shall soon, very soon,
be independent of the publick stores of Flour, Grain,
etc. People are now quite independent of Government;
and whatever may be said by the good people of
England, I am warranted in saying that no small
farmer or laboring man in Britain lives more at their
ease in the article of food than the settler or convict
on Norfolk Island does.... And what is very extra-
ordinary, \ve are grown quite honest; when it is con-
sidered that there is no court of justice on the Island
and that culprits are not in dread of severe punish-
ments or loss of life. May it not be thought extra-
ordinary that a numerous set of people, who are
banished for committing robberies, from the most
daring to the most artfull, should so far forget their
profession as to let their talents fall into a total
disuse ! There never has been a house broke open, or
even attempted, nor has there been the least theft
committed on any article of vegetables for these six
months past, and indeed, speaking generally of the
convicts on this island, it often excites my admira-
tion when I reflect on their very singular and orderly
behavior.
Poor wretches! “We are grown quite
honest,” his Excellency says, apparently
still failing to see that mostly they weren't
dishonest before—they were merely hungry.
“Copabella”: How woman does love to
dress the part! If she were sentenced to be
shot at dawn her first thought would be
a something in grey and rose to “go” with
the sunrise. Early in the war one of the
silly-season stunts was a woman’s corps for
home defence. Its first care was to design
a costume. Then Kitchener spoke the word
and the thing fizzled. Illustrated weeklies
now coming to hand feature “women
workers” as their star item. The chief
interest seems to be in the costumes —
most of them bifurcated. Skirts and flow-
ing hair and fripperies are, of course, out
of place amid machinery; but most of the
costumes belong to comic opera—knee-laced
breeches, puttee leggings, neck-handkerchiefs
and sombreros! Who but a woman would
be bothered with a get-up like that in which
to work! I wonder how long it would last
a Gippsland cow-cocky. Or the chain-
makers of Cradley Heath—the women whose
curse is upon England !
“Bad Australian's” tale of mining in
Bolivia
If the Australians at present developing the great
natural resources of Bolivia are anything like the
bunch I knew about a decade ago, they will hold
their end up. This party of Australians (one of
them a Portugee) started out from Uyuni on a
prospecting expedition. After a few weeks’ poking
into all kinds of outcrops they struck a lode of tin
that just made them gasp. When they got their
second wind they set to work, secured the claim, and
the way they tore high-grade tin ore off the roof of
the world isn’t beaten in history. As there were no
llama trains arriving in Uyuni with their output it
took some time for the native vultures to scent the
prey ; but one fine day a flat-faced Bolivian vigilante
arrived at the camp, explained that they were work-
ing another man’s claim, delivered an ejectment
order, and intimated that the sooner they departed
leaving the pile of ore to the rightful owner the
better. When the emissary of constituted authority
had faded away the little crowd took counsel together
and decided that the man who wanted that claim
■must come and take it. They then overhauled their
Winchesters and Colts and built a barricade of rocks
around their stone humpy and prepared for the wrath
to come. About three days later a squad of Bolivian
“soldiers” ambled up out of the alkali plains, and
after the sargento had read or recited the Riot Act
he demanded that the boys (one of them being a
Portugee) get forth into the wilderness as naked of
all resources as the scapegoat of Judah. If they
didn't, • why, then, well, Por Dios, Grr-rr-rr-r. ...
Whoo-00-00-o! Just here the sargento and his frowsy
gang found themselves looking into the business end
of the ironmongery, and promptly fled into the wil-
derness. When the delegation reached home it ex-
plained to the “owner” of the mine, who was a
dummy acting for a pair of high political sharks, that
the cursed “Ingleses” would certainly fight like seven
demonios rather than quit, and that it was only by
the grace of God that he and his gallant followers
had not been killed by the volleys which these
bandidos had poured into them as soon as they came
in range. When this was communicated to the prin-
cipal sharks they waited on the “military” authorities
and demanded that a strong body be sent out to
enforce the law and sweep the Ingleses off the face of
the Andes. The chief military macaw was a bit
dubious about the job, but eventually, on being pro-
mised a good cut at the loot, agreed ; on the under-
standing that the political sharks defray the cost of
the resulting funerals and provide for the widows
and orphans. This was too large an order for the
sharks, so the expeditionary force was disba’nded, and
the Australians (one of them being still a Portugee)
were left in peace. They were there two years a ter,
to my knowledge, and may be there yet for aught I
know to the contrary.


A
\ n N J Li
L\
*£.
\
/AJ
A
TO
8!
•A
\
i
/ 1/
w 'll
%
ar
\
\
?o
Qc
*
fef
N
ccS
a:
<=o
o
*■»**
U]
=*s
o
m
!W
o
<
i~
fil?/JNNY
.CoPv(fiOnfE.O)
Be Wise—Bt*y To-day l
u Why not buy a bottle of Chamberlain's Cough Remedy to-day ? You
will surely need it before the winter’s over. Many a cold and serious
illness has been warded off by having just the needed remedy in your
medicine chest at the beginning of winter. My advice is to take no
chances. It is just as well to be prepared. Be wise—buy to-day
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
There is no need to worry over coughs, colds, croup, whooping
Cough, influenza or any other winter affection if you will only make
a point of keeping Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy on your medicine
shelf*
If you buy to-day or even if you wait till the cold is right on you
there is one thing to remember. No matter where you go or what
price you may pay, it is absolutely impossible to get a better medicine
for the treatment of coughs, colds, croup, whooping cough,
bronchitis or any other throat or chest affection than Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.
From a small beginning the sale and use of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedv has become enormous and has extended to every part of the
civilized world. Does this not show conclusively that it is one of the
best? By its remarkable cures of coughs, colds, croup, influenza and
whooping cough it has won the esteem and confidence of the public.
From long experience in the use of it people know that it can always
be depended upon and that it is pleasant and safe to take.
If you don’t buy a bottle to-day give it a trial when you havea
cold and see for yourself what an excellent medicine it is.
It is sold everywhere in two sizes Is. 6d. and 35.”
All retailers are authorised to sell Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy under a guarantee ; if it does not
do all that we claim we will refund the price paid.
[cwtui fix
mm
XStlvXwfi-XOiX.S*
mm
l <
WATWORTH CO.’S
TI-SARKIN
POSITIVELY TAKES FAT OFF. SAFE TO USE I
ABSOLUTELY HARfILESS.
m
LET US SEND YOU
BY RETURN POST A
FREE SAMPLE
There are many
reasons why you
should get rid of
all that EXCESS
FAT
Excess fat injures your health, impedes your move-
ments, and makes you the joke-butt of your unfeeling
normal-weight friends. People who are excessively
fat never feel well and vigorous like normal folks. You know this is true.
People who have been fat and are now reduced to normal, think other fat people
ridiculous. Excess fat, also, impedes the heart action, rendering its functions
difficult, and interferes with the breathing. Not alone does excess fat injure your
health and endanger your existence, it absolutely destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why do you stay over fat?
"TI-SARKIN”
positively removes excess fat
and will restore your spoiled
figure to genteel and pleasing proportions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your breathing wonderfully, and
the course of treatment will cure you. It is the only successful and at the same
time harmless fat-reducer that has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has been
undeniably demonstrated in thousands of successfully treated cases. It is totally
and absolutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work any injury to the general
health, even though it often reduces excess weight by as much as a pound a day.
On the contrary, improved conditions in the general health become noticeable in less
than a week after its use is begun. Guarantee given
“ TI-SARKIN" is not a patent pill sold regar
symptoms , but is a scientific treatment in each special
Obesity cannot be cured bv drastic purging pills.
Sandgate, Queensland.
Manager, Watworth Co.
Dear Sir, —When I wrote you in July last my niece
was rapidly improving under your treatment. Slie was
then over 15 stone in weight,, but, lias since been reduced
to truly genteel proportions, and is now a very pleasing
figure. She continued her usual diet while under treat-
ment and was in no way inconvenienced, and I am
truly grateful to you for the result, for before the
treatment she was absolutely devoid of an.v semblance
of a figure, a burden to herself and friends, and un-
happy generally. She has reduced considerably over
three stone, and her health has improved to a splendid
extent. —Yours respectfully, M. CKAMB. „
GET A FREE SAMPLE.
It does not matter how far away you live, we can treat you
and reduce you successfully by post. We want you to see what
hundreds say of “Ti-Sarkin” after using it. We want you
to know all about it.
SEND 2d. STAMP FOR FREE TRIAL. If you cannot call,
send a 2d. stamp and let us send you a free sample and a very
interesting booklet on the subject of obesity. We will post
same to you in plain package, and free from observation. IF
YOU CAN CALL, we will weigh you privately and supply all
particulars. LADY ATTENDANT and private rooms for inter-
views. Write or Call to-day.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily. Saturdays till 12.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
1903 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. (5802.)
d/ess of individual
case.
Don't use them.
2^
m
m
■m


Arraott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
The
Correct
Feeding of
Infants
m
NO attempt to provide a
correct system for the
progressive feeding of
Infants was ever successfully
carried out until the ‘Allen-
burys’ series of Infants’ Foods
were introduced. So successful
have the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
Nos. I, 2 and 3 proved, that
whenever a child is denied the
- privilege of the mother’s milk
they are indispensable. Gratifying evidence
of their remarkable value in the feeding
of infants from birth is constantly coming
to hand. The following is a copy of one
of many such voluntary letters received
from Medical Men, Nurses and Parents
resident in nearly all parts of the world.
A NURSE WRITES
“I am pleased to say I have used your Foods 1,2 and 3 for the
last twenty years and have found none better. The
most delicate baby ever born I nursed and reared on the
Foods until he was 3 years old, and now he is 18 YEARS, and
a strong healthy boy nearly 6 leet high and as rosy as an
apple. You can make whatever use you like of this as I
should like your Foods and other things to be more used in
future, as instead of making fat alone they make
bone and muscle, which is what children need.
(Signed) NURSE DAVIE.
The practical results from a continually extending use of the
'Allenburys* Foods, prove beyond doubt that children thrive excep-
tionally well on them. Such children are healthy and well grown; the
flesh is firm, without excess of fat and the formation of bone is solid.
V
a
The Best Alternative to Human Milk.
Lono3
Br >£H»nburtjs U<J- L 0«
y///w»!gy
MILK FOOD No. !
From birth to 3 months.
"Utit
r l**
UG
Lord 0
nburys
MILK FOOD No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition to baby’s dietary when JO months old and after.
Write for freebstok “lnfant Feeding and Management,"
B 4 paces of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
m
m
A Steel-Lined
Cartridge
means a strength-lined cartridge
“Nitro Club”
Shotgun Cartridges
\Made in 10,12,16, are steel-lmed
so, 24 and 28 gauge to above the
powder charge
—g i v i n g
I strength to
the case and
power and
penetration
to the shot
- # charge. Also an even pellet
distribution that makes for good patterns
' and a heavy bag.
Loaded in London with the popular English powders. Obtainable
from leading dealers everywhere—catalogue post-free on request.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
Australian Manager, 1). D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
Made in Australia
for Australians
by Australians.
o
:
c
MfA
i
If
Everybody Sings
its Praises—
Soldiers in Europe and people at home.
This famous chewing- sweet is the largest selling- confection
of its kind in the world.
Helps teeth, breath, appetite and digestion.
Small in cost big in benefit and long-lasting enjoyment*
3d. per packet of five big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and Stores, or address
J. C. Gambles & Co.,
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
&
sc?
o*
Ask for
free book, in colors:
"WRIGLEY'S MOTHER GOOSE.”
Be Sure it’s Wrigley’s.
n
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
, SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Sizes—
l'A K.p.
2 h.p.
3 ]A H.p.
“'rirr 5
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted. *
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.


i >
\V '(obV
X \V. O *
liv'd
CARE FOR YOUR HAIR
By Frequent Shampoos with
Cuticura Soap. Trial Free.
Precede shampoos by touches of Cuti-
cura Ointment if needed to spots of dan-
druff, itching and irritation of the scalp.
Nothing better for the complexion, hair,
hands or skin than these fragrant super-
creamy emollients. Also as substitutes
for expensive toilet preparations.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sold throughout the world.
“Well gentlemen I take
off my hat to you,—
m
such a beautifully
made rifle and such
shooting I never
expected to see...
Up to 800 yards I
could hit anything
I shot at... I killed
a big bull, over 500
yards away, and did
it so easy ... The
‘ Ross ’ is good
enough for me... It
has a nice balance,
is light and has a
nice feel to it. I
will say to anyone who is looking for the
best thing in Rifles get a ‘Ross* .280,
and you will never be disappointed.”
JAS. L. McLAUGHLIN, Hunter and Guide,
Valley, Wyoming.
In his enthusiastic praise of the Ross .280
Rifle, Mr. McLaughlin echoes the apprecia-
tion of the most skilled of the big game
hunters all over the world. Using the .280
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper tube
expanding bullet ( patented) it is a wonderful
help towards a successful trip. Any game
fairly hit is anchored. 1015
AT LEADING DEALERS
Illustrated catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
Hi
■
Good for
the Skin.
Icilma Cream is the toilet cream
that does most good. It makes
and keeps the hands and skin soft
and smooth —the complexion fresh
and clear. It is the only toilet
cream in the world that contains
Icilma Natural Water.
Icilma Cream has a sweet and
refreshing fragrance which makes
it delightful to use. It is non-
greasy and British tn id,’. Use
it daily and look your best.
a
Cream
(Guaranteed not to grow hair'.
Price l/6d. per Pot,
Of Chemists, Druggists, Stores, etc.
Icilma is pronounced JSye-Silm
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents,
Ll Commerce House, Melbourne.
A.C.T?
CURLY HAIR.
“WAVeURL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon became a mass of wavy curls.” Result cer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Send 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New AVavcurl Co., 07 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
Get in Ahead of the Rest
If you want to join
the early birds it’s
Big Ben for yours. If
it’s first come, first
served, the early ones
have first chance at
the morning oppor-
tunities.
One thing’s sure,
there’s no way to get
ahead lying in bed late
o’ mornings.
There’s many a head of a
firm who is first at the office,
and puts in his best strokes
before the others turn up.
The boss can’t help feeling
kindly toward the man who
uses this system. Is it strange
that most of his confidential
assistants were chosen from the
early birds ?
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial—
a cheerful, deep toned voice—
large, comfortable winding keys
—a light running movement
with watch-like escapement—an
alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for
ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred inspec-
tions in the making and six rigid timing
tests before leaving the factory of the
Western Clock Co., La Salle, 111.,
U.S.A., Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; postage 1/•
extra.
V
<VIPL
W
v\
Vs
M
NU\>
Sn
As
*
\
L
s
V'\
: '
2/ V'
\ "
N
.</ /
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
m
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
21-
Per Bottle
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle
The Inky Way.
“II.O.”: Tlie Australian Authors ancl
Writers’ Guild, which has been formed in
Melbourne and is to have a branch in Syd-
ney, is the latest organisation with hopes
of doing something for the writer wnose pen
itches to go beyond the Marine Board and
the corpse in the coalshed. Besides barrack-
ing for a duty on foreign pot-boiler
stuff, the Guild intends making itself
heard in regard to other matters. For
instance, a recent proposal to place a bust
of Ilenry Lawson in Melbourne Art Gallery
was turned down, one of the trustees _ re-
marking that it was doubtful if “the writer
mentioned” was of sufficient importance to
be entitled to a niche in a Temple of Fame
with literary lions like Henry Gyles Turner.
Next time a public nonentity makes a simi-
lar fatuous remark the Guild will be on hand
with an axe.
V * * *
When a Hun bullet found Major Murdoch
Nish Mackay it put the old Bendigo Adver-
tiser office into mourning. Murdoch Nish
was a son of George Mackay, who was the
son of Angus, who, by the way, was the
father of the Sydney D.T. The Nish came
from the mother, a daughter of the old
Prusbyterian doctor who, among other
things, delivered a 40-minute address at old
politician Angus’s grave. Just before he
set out for the war with three stars on his
shoulder young Mackay was married to the
daughter of the late Parliamentary Clerk,
Tom Watson.
* * * *
“Quote”: A sidelight on the end of Adam
Lindsay Gordon is supplied by his old friend
W. Trainor. The day before he took his life
Gordon met that melancholy person Kendall
in Melbourne. They had an argument about
the lines, “Life is real, life is earnest,” and
the rest. Kendall said, correctly, that they
were written by Longfellow, while Gordon
would have it that Tennyson was the guilty
party. They went down to Mullen’s to settle
the point, and when Gordon found he was
wrong he took a box of 'cartridges out of his
pocket, and, tapping it, said: “I’m losing my
memory, but one of these will soon put an
end to that.'” He evidently meant it, too.
Alas, the King Island News, the one
paper in the world, so far as The Bulletin
knows, which was boycotting the war, has
given in. A syndicate on the -Bass Straits
speck used to get a friend in Melbourne to
send a private wireless every now and then
giving the latest news about the row. Then
some genius pointed out that it would come
cheaper to have it at press-rates addressed
to the News. And as plucky little King-
Island has sent more men to the Front than
almost any other bit of Australia with the
same population, the News succumbed.
X * * *
A Prussian paper overworked the edi-
torial “we” the other day when it growled
from the pit of its stomach: “Misery is
everywhere. We must have fewer children
for the King of Prussia.” And none at all
on publishing day.
* * * *
A. G. Davies, who has been toiling on
the Hobart Mercury for a couple of years,
and was recently elected head-serang of the
local A.J.A., is going to risk his life by
going back to Bananaland again. This good
fellow started life as a sailonnan.
* X X X
A Maoriiander named Bean was killed
in action in France on July 19. There isn’t
likely to be any confusion with C. E. W.
Bean, Commonwealth war correspondent, as
the Maoriiander’s initials were W. E. C.
•X . * X *
The Glen Innes (N.S.W.) Examiner will
be colliding with the Censor if it doesn’t
mind its “t’s” :
Monday we celebrated the anniversary of the
capture of Lone Pine by the Australians on Gallipoli.
Next to the immoral landing on that alien shore on
April 25 this was the most memorable engagement
in which our troops took part during the whole
campaign.
♦ * * *
The London Statist has been appealing
to a military tribunal not to commandeer
editorial secretaries for immediate service
against the Huns. But the claim was dis-
allowed, and the editorial secretary will
have to get into khaki.
* * * *
The war experts weighed the news last
week and came to the conclusion that the
Russians had lost Mush in Armenia. But
we can spare it—the same experts supplied
plenty more.
X- * * *
Bismarck laid the foundations of modern
Germany. When we discover the name of
the architect who designed Hell we’ll be
able to make a start with our long-contem-
plated book of reference, The Devil’s
Who’s Who.
WHEN SHE WRITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She is writing a letter in feminine haste,
Ar.d I'm gloating aside on the size of her waist;
But her pen, like God’s Huntsman, makes never a
cheek.
Oh, look at the curl on the nape of her neck!
Note the nib! It is broad, and it’s loaded with ink,
And the pace that it keeps makes this journalist
blink,
For it skims like a swallow and grates like a file,
And, my conscience, she’s using up paper in style!
No, she never looks back to see what she has said —
Merely keeps her gaze fixed on the paper ahead ;
And I’m loving the look in her beautiful eyes
As her pen sweeps along spilling gay thoughts and
wise.
But I’d rather not work in my journeyman way
While she’s scoring and cutting the paper-track gray,
For it sounds like a rat biting wood in a rage
When her pen swirls and dashes across the clear
page.
It will sideslip some day and pile up in a. wreck !. . . .
But those eyes—and the curl on the white of her
neck!
N.S.W.
P.A.D.


Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
We have the Finest Selection and Greatest Variety. “Goods Right—Prices Right,
m
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY* Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7 JQ, jq /(j
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast 7/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 40/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor arid rope for ceiling 9/6, 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation .size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-erid Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/- 22/6 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 52/6
Above balls fitted with Moseley’s best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
BABE GROVES, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6 pr. PLATFORMS,
33/-, 50/-, 80/- each. BALL AND SOCKET
SWIVELS, 1/6, 2/6 each. BALL-BEARING
SWIVELS, 3/6, 4/6, 5/- each.
SWEET CROP CIGARETTES, made in England. Famed for
their pleasing fragrance and delightful aroma. Packets containing
9 cigarettes 6d. (post free)
Boxes of 10 packets 5/- (post free)
Specialists in all Kinds |
of Sporting Repair Work I
I
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
real leather, special value 8/6
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 9/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 11/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 13/6, 16/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 22/6
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or Boz 25/-, 30/-
BRYAN’S CHAMPION, best cape, 6 or 8 oz 22/6
BRYAN’S CHAMPION, extra special, 6oz 25/-
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z.. . 35/-
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed ...... 6/-
~ Best napa, „ „ 7/.
~ Tan Leather, ~ „ g/.
„ very superior, ~ „ .... 10/6
~ Laced, ~ ~ 12/6, 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
SUNOL TOBACCO, highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma.
Awarded 4 gold medals. Dark or light. Plug and cut. 2oz. pkt.,
lid.; a pound y 6/6 (post free)
S.N.L. HIGH-GRADE BRIAR PIPES, made from finest
selected Briar Root, hand-cut mouthpieces, heavy sterling silver
mounts. In all the leading shapes 3/9 (post free)
Military training quarters and
camps supplied with all kinds
of Sporting and Gymnastic
Requisites.
IMMONSb-
HAYMARKET
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
For full particulars of all
indoor and outdoor Sporting
Goods see our new edition
illustrated Sports List. Free
on application.
TEST THIS REMARKABLE HAIR GROWER
CHARGE.
Liberal Trial Supply of Mr. Burleigh’s True Hair Grower, also Instructive and Interesting Booklet, Free to “Bulletin” Readers.
What my True Hair Grower has done for Mrs. Fowles and her Daughter, it will also do for You. -^#
10,000 Samples Given Away.
Hair troubles, like many other dis-
eases, have been wrongly diagnosed and
altogether misunderstood. The hair
itself is not the thing to be treated, for
the reason that it is simply a product of
the scalp, and wholly dependent upon
its action. The scalp is the very soil in
which the hair is produced, nurtured
and grown; and it alone should receive
the attention if results are to be ex-
pected. It would do no earthly good
to treat the stem of a plant with a view
of making it grow and become more
beautiful —the soil in which the plant
grows must be attended to. Therefore
the scalp in which the hair grows must
receive the attention if you are to expect
it to grow and become more beautiful.
Loss of hair is caused by the scalp
drying up, or losing its supply of moist-
ure, or nutriment. When baldness
occurs the scalp has simply lost all its
nourishment, leaving nothing for the
hair to feed upon (a plant, or even a
tree, would die under similar condi-
tions).
The natural thing to do in either case
is to feed and replenish the soil or scalp,
as the case may be, and your crop will
grow and multiply as Nature intended
it should.
My True Hair Grower has a most
wonderful effect upon the hair glands
and tissues of the scalp. It is the only
remedy for the hair ever discovered that
is similar to the natural foods or liquids
of the scalp;
It penetrates the pores quickly, and
the hair soon shows the effects of its
wonderful, exhilarating and life-pro-
ducing qualities.
I am not an advertising quack, but
am a business man. My hair began to
grow thin the time I reached the age of
thirty. When I had reached the age of
thirty-five the top of my head was quite
bald. I had considerable pride, and
sought for something to cause renewed
xSSSSi
m
Mrs. D. FOWLES AND HER DAUGHTER (from a Photo.-).
Mr. John Craven Burleigh, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney. Katoomba, August 28, 1915.
Dear Sir, —I am sure you will be interested to know that your True Hair Grower has
given me entire satisfaction. Not only has it stopped my hair from falling out, but it has
entirely cleared the head from Dandruff, and has improved the growth and thickness of
the hair. I also used your preparation, with excellent results, in the case of my daughter,
and to let you see what extent her hair lias improved, I am enclosing photograph of myself
and daughter, which I have just had taken. You are at liberty to use this in any way you
think fit. Thanking you.—l am, Yours very truly, D. FOWLES.
growth. I invested in every prepara-
tion that I could see or ..ear of, and
here let me say that not only did I try
all the English so-called restorers but
those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting
cost me many sovereigns and consider-
able time—yet the hairs came not. I
had given up the idea of ever growing
hair again. One afternoon, while
enjoying a brief business respite by an
Alpine trip, I fell in with an old col-
legiate chemist whose hair was particu-
larly plentiful. I jokingly remarked
that I wished he could spare some
of his hair for my benefit. This led him
to tell me that lie understood the
human hair as well as a good dentist
understands teeth. He wrote out a for-
mula, and suggested that I have a quan-
tity of the compound prepared. I did
this a few days later. I was astonished to
see the hair coming forth after several appli-
cations, and within six weeks my head was
covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of
hair, Since then the hair on my head has
been as luxuriant as when in my school days.
•Having arranged for the legal right to do so,
J. nave for some time been privately selling
tins marvellous liair-growing compound.
Besides being a true Hair Grower, my
preparation quickly removes DANDRUFF
and stops FALLING HAIR and ITCH-
ING. It is known the world over, and I
•wva i in my consulting rooms upwards of
o(XJ(J letters from grateful men and women
who have derived so much benefit from the
use of my True Hair Grower as to compel
them to write and thank me. Now, I do
not wish you to accept my word for any
statement I make, but want you to prove
the matter for yourself in your own home.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Post the COUPON below TO-DAY,
enclosing 3d. stamps for postage, etc. By
you will receive (1) a liberal supply
of Mr. Craven Burleigh’s True Hair Grower,
(2) an interesting booklet entitled “Con-
cerning the Hair.” This book has been care-
fully written and contains much valuable
information concerning the hair that could
not be obtained from any other source. It
will prove a valuable guide and reference
book. Address John Craven Burleigh
(Dept. 7), 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POST TO-DAY
To JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH,
Dept. 7 Macdonell House, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please send me a free trial of True Hair Grower, also a copy of your booh entitled “Concerning the Hair.” I enclose 3d. stamps for postage, etc.
Name
Flease write plainly.
Address
State
SPECIAL NOTICE,
demand for free trials is
—Readers who are interested in the above announcement are requested to make early application. Mr. Burleigh states that the
sure to be large, and that he may be obliged to withdraw the offer at an early date.


Daisy Jerome—Everyone’s
Favorite—Dses Rexona Soap.
MISS DAISY JEROME (from a C. & B. McFarlane
Photo).
No actress has ever had the
Australian record possessed by
Miss Daisy Jerome. Originally
brought to Australia for the
J. C. Williamson revue, “Come
Over Here,’’ she afterwards re-
mained here in pantomime and
vaudeville. For the three and a
half years she was in Australia
she never received less than £lOO
a week. No other actress can
boast of having, like Miss
Jerome, appeared in Sydney
again and again—always proving
a terrific draw, and in that way
fully justifying the huge salary
received by her.
Miss Jerome, who keeps her
glorious hair in condition with
Rexona Soap, joins our galaxy of
Rexona girls, with these words: —
Dear Sirs, —
My audiences all know
the lines, “My hair may
be funny, but it is getting
me the money,” and I
hope Rexona Soap gets
you the money, for it is
Rexona Soap for mine all
the time. It keeps my
hair silky and fluffy as
you see it. I receive
presents of soap in every
city, but I buy Rexona
Soap. Surely this speaks
for itself.
Yours truly,
DAISY JEROME.
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona the Rapid Healer, and Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap, both universal favorites. The wonderful healing powers of Rexona
have made it a pass-word in nearly every home in Australasia. Rexona Soap is rne
best preservative for the skin and hair that is obtainable. Try for yourself ant
prove our w r ords. Rexona, 1/6 an d 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
0
o
O
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
BRAND
PRODUCTS
Welcome
RE-INFORCEMENTS
For the Boys
At the Front
The War Chest Committee
Advises
That “Billys” are not to be sent to the “Boys at the
Front,’’ but recommends the use of smaller square
boxes for easy transport.
All the more reason when space is restricted, why a tin or two each of
REX
Luncheon Cheese
Ham Pate or
Veal & Tongue Pate
be sent with each parcel. They take up a minimum of space, yet contain
the maximum amount of solid nourishment, and are guaranteed to make
the “boys” look forward to the trench meals with new delight.
They are appetizing, nutritious foods, made and packed
in a hygienic factory—relished alike by the “boys” at
home and those in the firing line.
Let your Xmas Box include at least one tin of each.
Your Grocer sells them. BUT INSIST ON “REX”
BRAND!
Foggitt Jones & Co. Ltd.
CUBEBS OP “BEX” HAMS AND BACON.
PACKERS OP “BEX” PURE POOD PRODUCTS.
A Seaside Fantasy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE night was dark, the moon was gone,
A mist obscured the sea;
One star with languid twinkle shone
Directly over me;
The sand was white with streaks of foam
And I was many miles from home.
I know not when or how I came
To that unhappy spot;
I think my boots were most to blame,
I know my heart was not;
For I detested sand and rock
That seemed my heavy fate to mock.
I was as weary as a cab
Dragged by a horse all day,
As sad as fish upon a slab
When winter dusks are grey ;
The end seemed fallen out of me
There by the darkness of the sea.
I had no notion where I strayed,
I did not know my name;
’Twas this that made my soul afraid
And all my being tame.
My sight was good and yet my mind
In certain ways had gone quite blind.
My memory was blank as death ;
And yet I somehow knew
That formerly I drew my breath
As other people do,
And ate pork chops and went to bed
With pillows underneath my head.
No pillows were around me there,
All beds were far away.
I searched my clothing everywhere
For the tenth time that day
In trembling hope some line to see
Or envelope explaining me.
But there was nothing there at all,
No kind of aid or clue.
I started in the dark to bawl
The names of those I knew —
A faint hope in my heart had grown
I still might answer to my own.
At last I yielded to despair.
Beneath some rocks I crept;
And with soft sand beneath my hair
Through troubled dreams I slept
Till morning, with a merry light,
Blew yellow holes in dusky night.
My memory was not repaired,
I found, by rest or sleep;
But little in that hour I cared.
The vast and smiling deep
Called me my sportive limbs to lave
In snowy foam and curving wave.
I left my clothes upon the beach
And took my careless way,
As pinldy naked as a peach,
To that delightful play.
The tingling splash of water felt
Like balm to my ungirded pelt.
Ten blissful minutes ran to waste
And then I heard a noise
Of laughter, breathless in its haste,
Such as proceeds from boys.
I gazed along the sandy shore —
My heap of clothes was there no more.
Wildly I ran about the sand,
Yet dared not call for aid.
To Heaven I raised a praying hand,
But Heaven no answer made.
My soul was filled with awful fear
Lest any person should come near.
Naked as dawn, my memory gone,
I sat beside the sea;
The sun in morning splendor shone
Without a thought of me ;
My reason felt quite tempest-tost
With both my clothes and memory lost.
And then I laughed. A skimming bird
Passed lightly o’er the wave.
Although my plight might seem absurd,
I must be strong and brave.
I save I simply had to sit
Down there and make the best of it.
What could I do? A simple maid,
Remote from home and kin,
Without one inch of tape or braid
To clothe my sunburnt skin!
Without a name to answer to,
What could I dream or hope to do?
The sun came up, the sun went down —•
It does it every day ;
And I am growing nice and brown
With my long seaside stay;
For there is nought to do but sit
And try to make the best of it.
I am as weary as a cab
Dragged by a horse all day;
I envy every little crab
That still can run away.
The end seems fallen out of me—■
1 wonder who I used to be!
N.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
Apricots and Passion Fruit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BLUE-EYED, fair-haired, and of such
frank looks that the people who liked
him on sight called him honest, and
the few self-conscious people who disliked
him at first time of asking, because of some
fancied slight to their own precious dignity,
styled him impudent, Billy Stephens—coat-
less and with his unbuttoned waistcoat
flapping in the kindly breeze of morning—
whistled his way through the Filzroy
Gardens. Near Clarendon-street he stopped
whistling, took from one waistcoat pocket
his little bag of tobacco and from the other
a book of cigarette papers, and rolled a
“fag” with fingers handsomely tinted a
golden brown by nicotine. The basket of
apricots stayed safely balanced upon his
head while he lighted up. A dozen
puffs, and the cigarette was not; Billy
threw away the butt as he turned into
Hotham-street, and, being by this time in
the place of trade, said or sung in a round
and musical voice, “A —a apricots, with
the ascending inflection on the “cots.
The season, summer; and the Week of
Apricots. , ,
The fruit lasts much longer than a week
in the market; but Billy was a keen trader,
knew that the week is the best, and was
ready to abandon apricots for asparagus the
day after apricots became common in the
cheap shops and their novelty called the more
exacting class of customer no more. lie
was hungry for the success represented by
the ownership of a fruit and softdrinks
shop; and he was ever making “a new
start,” because relatives claimed the capital
for each of the “starts” that happened
before the newest one, and he was constitu-
tionally unable to close his ears to a hard-
luck story—just as he was incapable of
remembering a favor after he had granted
it. And the sun was kindly, and the air
like wine, and the gardens washed clean;
and anything that happened yesterday was
as if it had never been.
So he opened gates, and bore his basket
through tradesmen’s entrances to kitchens,
and said “Apricots, lady?” and weighed
them out in his spring-balance scales, or
failed to make a sale and withdrew again
to another place of attack. At last he came
to a cottage on the dip of a hill —a cottage
framed in a garden and partly hidden by
trees. This place had been his Waterloo
half a dozen times—and once his retreat
from Moscow, with a large dog to represent
the Russians harrying his flank.
It was a place mostly avoided by the
hawkers who knew that street. A China-
man, early displeased by the decisive refusal
to buy, had written certain characters upon
the gate; arid other Chinese read at
intervals, and departed quickly with
a curse upon the foreign devil who
would not buy. But Billy Stephens
was a man difficult to defeat. The house
was on his rounds for Monday mornings,
and therefore it had to be attacked until it
capitulated. So this day he essayed it yet
again, giving to the hard-faced woman who
stood at the kitchen door the usual formula
—“Apricots, lady?”
With the knife held in her hand she
waved him away, sternly saying, “We don’t
buy off hawkers —I’ve told you before.”
“Apricots, lady? Live and let live.”
“Go away! I believe you poisoned the
dog.”
“Not me, lady. Finest apricots you ever
see.”
“Go away! I’ll put the pleece on to you
for trespass.” -
“Right you are, lady. I’m doin’ no harm.
Next time p’raps. Good mornin’, lady.”
As he went streetwards through the
garden he saw the lady of the house, a
mighty handsome woman of thirty, a child
upon her lap, mother and child laughing in
each other’s face. He said but “Good morn-
in’, lady,” and spoke not again of apricots,
having taken refusals sufficient for the day.
He went down the street singing; and
luck came to reward a good heart, for the
boarding-house in the next block emptied his
basket. But he saw the cart of a favored
Chinaman at the gate of the place of his
defeat and felt the more because he had
been beaten by a “Pong.”
Any other success could not compensate
him for the failure at the house where
hawkers were refused trade and treated with
contumely. It was made no easier for him
that a man saw his discomfiture at the
hands of a woman. The master of the
house, a cheerfully careless young man with
a clean eye and a laugh that couldn’t help
itself, listened to his severe old servant
repulsing the hawker, and laughed again.
As he left the garden by the tradesmen’s
entrance Willie Stephens heard him telling
his wife —the very handsome young woman
with the pretty children —that old Ellen was
armed to the teeth, especially the teeth.
But Stephens was> not to be repulsed;
sooner or later this citadel must fall.
Asparagus went out; pineapples came in;
and so to the dead time of autumn, when
only the fruits of the North offer the South
for eating. And in the pineapple time
Willie Stephens discovered that the master
of the house was away on a journey, and
that his friend —one of those cheap, inferior
types that have some secret attraction of
difference for men in all ways their superiors
—was using the husband’s absence to follow
the very handsome young wife like a beggar.
When Stephens took the repulse of that
day, uttered acidly by the servant, and
supplemented by a haughty dismissal by the
lady of the house, to whom he had appealed,
he felt for the first time resentment; for he
himself was but an honest trader offering
honest goods, and that slant-eyed, gross-
mouthed visitor he knew to be the wolf
calling in the absence of the house dog. For
he heard, as he went through the shrubbery,
this said by the unwelcome caller to the
uneasy hostess in the garden :
“I say, George’s jellers o’ me, isn’ he?”
“Jealous of you!” replied a voice, madden-
ingly disdainful of the sneaking egotist.
“How could he be jealous of you?”
That almost choked the egotist, but he
gulped it down.
“All the same,” he said, “you won’t tell
him I was here, will yer?”
“I won’t think enough of it to remember
it.”
“Ha, ha!” said Stephens to himself softly,
as of a man making a discovery. “The
sooner the bloke with the good eye gets home
the better. Her husband’s a good chap, and
he wanted them to deal off me. I’ve half a
mind to put him wise. But s’pose I did
I’d get a punch on the nose most likely, and
no good done.”
So like most other Levites who see murder
toward and pass by on the other side, and
with much of the superstition that it is a
criminal offence to cut down a hanging
suicide until the police arrive, the hawker
put out of his mind the possible tragedy.
These are the excuses that support injustice
and the archaic furniture called thrones —
“Am I my brother’s keeper?” and “It’s none
of my business”; only that in the marital
relation there are excellent precedents for
non-interference, seeing that the average
wife, doglike, turns on the man who would
protect her from the violence of her husband.
(Continued on next page.)


The Home First Aid
ZAM-BUK IS THE MOTHER’S FRIEND.
Accidents will happen even in the best-regulated families. Healthy
youngsters seem to be always “in the wars.” Housework abounds with
mishaps for busy wives and harassed mothers; and the bread-winner often
returns from work with a more or less serious injury. Just what every
home needs is Zam-Buk. A pot and a bandage on a handy shelf, where they
are handy for instant use, save untold pain, time and money.
When the little one runs in from his play with a smarting, dirt-filled
scrape on his knee, simply wash the part and smear with Zam-Buk. When
father cuts or scrapes his hand, the handy pot of Zam-Buk again meets the
emergency; and the housewife or mother continually finds it a real friend
for the burns she receives while cooking, the scalds of a washing day, or the
knocks, etc., of dusting. Children like Zam-Buk because it is cooling,
soothing and pleasant. Their elders value it still more highly because it
is also antiseptic and a powerful germicide, preventing poisoning, festering
and disease. Daily mishaps make Zam-Buk a daily need—therefore, keep
Zam-Buk handy.
CHILD’S SHOCKING BURN.
ARM COMPLETELY HEALED BY ZAM=BUK.
No matter how careful we may be. accidents
will happen. Mrs. L. Stevens, of 3 Seacomb
Street, North Fitzroy, Melbourne, says:—
“While ironing I accidentally put the iron
on my litle girl’s arm, which was extended
across the table. The flesh was seared from
the elbow to the wrist, and the skin all blis-
tered in a shocking manner. The agony
was something awful, and the wound
afterwards broke, presenting an awful
appearance. I took Bertha to a chemist,
who prescribed ointment, which did not
do any good. for. when the bandages were
taken off, the flesh and skin came along
with them, and made her arm worse.
m
m
m
m
Little
Bertha
Stevent.
“I had heard so many good reports of Zam-Buk, which impressed me so much
that I purchased a supply, and dressed her arm with it. Zam-Buk cooled the
burning pain, and gave her the greatest ease from inflammation and swelling. This
was most encouraging, so we continued using Zam-Buk daily, until her arm was
thoroughly healed and well.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
m
SOOTHES & HEALS,
For the treatment
of everyday skin
sores, flesh
wounds and In>
juries, Zam»Buk is
an ever-ready
healer. It is also
excellent for bad
legs, poisoned
wounds, piles, etc.
Of all stores and
chemists, 1/6 and
3/6 per pot.
Gun-Men!
M Experienced Shots
■ know that the deadli-
■ est ‘Foe to Rust and
J Friction’ is—
((
3-in-one Oil
Most Firearm Manu-
facturers use no other.
“Three-in-One” is a highly-
refined, concentrated Oil of
special quality. Most cleanly in
use.
Nothing like it for Golf-clubs
and Fishing Tackle!
Get it from your Dealer, or
send postcard for Free Sample.
REID AND REID,
Australasian Agents, /
ua r
■UCfIG
HARRIS STREET,
WELLINGTON, ,
< N.Z. I
m
m
ns
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries. *
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Choose a "Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —eacli and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"SWAN SAFETY
m
Can't L«*aK,
Plot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MArilE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J A. BURKB;S Primrose Buildings, 255« George St., Sydney.
m
If any illustration appearing in T ,IF
Buixetin takes your fancy, write to tlic
Manager, who will (jnote you price for
April was bright and warm; more like
early March than the approach to winter.
The warmth helped the gardens to more
than autumn beauty; the morning of that
gracious heat of the dying season, turning
to rain in early afternoon; haze slowly lift-
ing from the earth and making the air soft
with its humidity. Billy Stephens’s stock
that week was passion-fruit—a downy,
pearly blue on the protected fruit, and
every bruise or scratch showing purple
below it. The scent of it streamed down to
his face from the basket —a perfume that
to the man who knew must have suggested
the forests of the North-East Coast, and the
jungles of the Territory that have been
smothered by the passion-vine; carrying
purple fruit and the passion-flower, with
calyx and stamen of hammer and nail and
spear, to the summits of the trees; wrapping
them in its cirrous branches and making the
forest a wall of wiry green. But the hawker
had no time for the picturesque; though sub-
consciously and with a single heart for trade
he had dressed the basket with something of
a Roman pedlar’s sense of beauty.
And so he went from house to house,
lightening his basket, and approaching the
place of his many defeats.
The very pretty young wife was looking
her best —which is to speak of assured
beauty. Her husband was still absent; and
use and habit had begun to leave him, for a
few minutes at a time, out of all her waking
mind.
And use and habit had made these calls
of the egotist, at first resented, then con-
temptuously tolerated, begin to seem more
part of the average day.
He was there that morning, following her
like a beggar; yet beginning to show him-
self in his true colors of a beggar who will
turn thief if denied alms always. Dry-
lipped and husky, and partially tongue-tied
by desire, the beggar’s insistence was begin-
ning to turn to the violence of the robber.
The woman was uneasy yet undecided,
knowing danger and dishonor near; sensing
the shamefulness of all the paltering with
the traitor in the absence of the garrison.
Her mental attitude to this beggar-thief was
that of contempt merging to hatred ; yet she
tacitly permitted the meanness of the sneak,
as the mouse in the cage seems paralysed at
the approach of the snake so that it does not
attempt to escape.
The husky voice uttered the lies of its
rotten mind, letting out words that could
deceive none and the flattery that makes the
hateful seem desirable because of its praise
of the besought.
‘‘Come out with me.” said the sneak—
"y’ve got a dull time here.”
She wilfully misunderstood him. “But
would your wife go with us? 1 don’t know
her very well.”
lie gestured impatience; and said as if lie
were the most abused man in the world—
“ Never mind me wife. I’m tired of her, and
on’y married her for her money.”
“Oh ! You should be ashamed.”
“I love you.”
“Don’t tell me that.”
"I do —I can’t help it. I*ll leave her. ...
let’s go to America.”
Her mental attitude to him was un-
changed ; but his hand, with its short, vul-
gar. stubby fingers, had closed over her own
as it rested on the chair rail. She tried to
withdraw her hand. The pressure increased.
Still contemptuous of him mentally, he did
not seem worth struggling with physically;
but she protested weakly as he put the other
arm around her, trying to persuade her with
broken words.
“Let me go—oh. please.”
And the “please” told him he had won. He
tightened the other arm about her, begging,
promising, threatening
At the sound of a footfall on the asphalt
she wrenched herself from him and looked
up.
“Cheap passion, lady?” said the hawker,
with a new’ and whimsical meaning in the
words.
And then, what with relief and the feeling
of new-found safety, and the alternative
meaning of the hawker’s phrase, she had to
laugh—aloud and heartily, but with an
undertone of hysteria in it. too.
1 he egotist, defeated and made ridiculous
also, glared at Billy Stephens.
“Cheap passion, lady?” said Billy Ste-
phens, and laughed with her.
“Take ’em round the kitchen,” said the
egotist, trying to snatch new success from the
first defeat.
, “Y, ou ain ’ fc the boss,” said Billy Stephens.
Y\ ill I stay, lady?”
“Yes—stay!”
“You”
“There's a policeman near the cornel*
lady.”
She laughed quite her safe self again.
“He isn’t wanted,” she said. “Good-morn-
ing. Mister—er—or” ■ and she seemed to
forget his name.
I 11 come back," he said in an undertone,
and reaching eagerly for this last chance.
ou will not! ’ And she spoke not in a
whisper, so that the hawker might hear.
"Nor at any other time."
He looked at them, cursed them both word-
lessly. and left the garden, raging.
“Cheap passion. lady?” said Billy
Stephens, swiftly returning to commerce.
“Sixpence a dozen.”
“Very cheap, indeed." said the handsome
Woman. “I’ll buy the lot.”
A word in season spoils main a crop of
wild oats.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Coat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHN BOOTH-GARRICK, the renowned
mummer, was late for lunch. Ilis re-
cently-created better-half sat idling on
the boarding-house verandah awaiting him.
Presently lie came up the path, and she flew
—hungry, hut still affectionate —to greet
him.
"Had to g<> after rehearsal and see about
that coat 1 must, have for the new piece,” he
explained. "Couldn’t get away from the
talkative Hebrew who wanted me to buy it
there and then.”
Mr. Booth-Garrick, as may be guessed
from his hyphen, was the leading gentleman
of the Billjimson theatrical company, and
Mrs. 8.-G. was "late” of the same combina-
tion (Miss Annabel Siddons-Woolgar, on the
bills), she having retired fi’om the boards on
her marriage six weeks previously. "One
star in the family is enough,” the actor com-
mented jocularly to his friends. To himself
he confessed that his bride was the better of
the two at the game, and it did not displease
him to know that he now had the firmament
to himself.
“You saw the coat you want, then, dear-
est?” asked the ex-actress.
“The identical article!” After a pause,
during which Booth-Garrick took his sii-
weeks’ old wife in his arms and kissed her
as only theatrical star artists know how, he
continued : “Potmutter wanted four pounds
for it —the old shark ! Of course, it’s worth
every penny : but you don't catch me giving
that price. If I tried hard I ought to get it
for two.”
“And you’ll try hard —don’t let the Jews
beat you, sweetheart!”
“With your help, Annabel, they’ll have no
chance in life.”
“My help?”
“Yes. We’ll both go to Potmutter’s to-
morrow. I’ll try it on again, and that’s
where you’ll come in, dear heart. You must
inspect it critically and run it down, see?
Then I’ll offer the old Israelite a couple of
pounds, and lie'll jump at it. Great scheme
—what!”
“Anything you suggest, my love, will be
right,” murmured the dutiful Mrs. Booth-
Garrick, kissing him some more. “And now
what about lunch?”
When next day Mr. Booth-Garrick visited
Potmutter’s second-hand store the coveted
coat was fished out again, and was again
tried on.
“My wife is outside,” carelessly remarked
the mummer to the shopkeeper. “I’d. like
her to see it on me. Kindly ask her to step
in.”
Potmutter smilingly ushered Mrs. Booth-
Garrick into the emporium.
The lady no sooner caught sight of her
husband than she gave a start of surprise
mingled with horror. “Take it off, John,”
she almost screamed. “Take it off, dearest,
at once ! I really didn’t expect to find it a
thing like this!”
John gazed at her inquiringly, and so did
Potmutter —only more so.
“The color, love ! The color !” went on the
lady shading her eyes with her hand and
blinking. “And what will it look like in the
limelight!”
“Oh. the color!” said the husband, plainly
relieved. “Well, I might be able to put up
with that” ■
“V’y, it’s a peautiful color.” interjected
Potmutter. “It ’d go vith anything!”
. “Although it is faded!” observed the lady.
“Faded!” repeated the dealer in hurt
tones. “That color couldn’t fade if it tried.
Permanent, that ith.”
"Oh. but the fit, my darling!” burst out
Mrs. Booth-Garrick afresh, swiftly swinging
her husband round. There were tears in her
eyes and voice.
“There ain’t nothin’ the matter vith the
fit,” asseverated Potmutter, “that’th a
moral.” The lady appeared not to hear.
“Oh. John, dear, if you could only see
yourself! You look a—a guy in it!”
Mr. Booth-Garrick appeared puzzled.
“D’ye mean it. Annabel?” he whispered,
swinging back again to survey himself in the
mirror once more.
“Mean it!” returned his wife loudly. “I
should think I did mean it.” And the ques-
tion really seemed unnecessary.
She turned to Potmutter, who was pro-
testing vehemently with his hands.
“You’re not going to allow my husband to
buy that coat, are you?”
“Yish-I-may-die if it ain’t vorth double
vat I’m asking for it,” the rattled Israel
managed to gasp out. “An’ it fits him to
perfection.”
“Fits!” echoed the lady, shrilly. “Fits!
Well. I may be color-blind, but you’ll allow
me to know a fit when I see one. That
coat's not long enough ; it's tight under the
arms.” (“No, it ain’t.” whispered Mr.
Booth-Garrick.) “It's tight under the
arms,” repeated the lady, firmly ; “the collar
doesn’t lie fiat; and when you’ve got it on
you seem to have no chest at all.”
Potmutter wrung his hands and turned
appealingly to another customer who had
just entered.
“Oh, I think it will do!” said Mr. Booth-
Garrick. "Here. Potmutter, I'll give you a
collide of pounds for the thing.”
“Please yourself. John,” was his wife’s
final comment. "But 1 wouldn’t allow you
to throw away a couple of pounds on it.
If the public sees you in such a thing, your
reputation’s gone.”
“The public ain’t a-goiu’ to get a chance
of seein’ him in it!” The clothes merchant
had stepped towards Booth-Garrick, and
seizing the coat by the collar with one hand
and a cuff by the other, had deftly peeled it
off the actor. “You sha’n’t have it at any
price,” spluttered the Jew. “No, not if you
vint on your bended knees for it. The coat
ain’t for sale.”
Booth-Garrick resumed his own jacket,
and winking at the irate clothier remarked :
“That’s all right. Potmutter. I’ll call to-
morrow.”
“Not here you von't. not if I'm alive,”
Potmutter fairly shrieked. “Bun avay—get
orf my premitheth.”
lie was in boiling earnest, lie followed
them to the door, dancing a two-step in his
rage.
“It’th a conthpirathy to ruin me, that'th
vat it ith. Now ’op it. before I do thome-
thing!”
They were outside and glad to get there.
"Well, I’ve lost the coat —that’s a sure
tiling,” said Booth-Garrick, regretfully.
“Uh, my love, what a pity!” said his wife.
“Pity ! ‘ Why”
"Yes, it’s a beauty—suits you every way!
It's the cheapest article I’ve ever seen, my
love!”
Booth-Garrick stopped and looked at his
wife in amazement..
“Get back to the stage, Annabel, quick,”
he said at length. “I’m going to take a-
benefit and get off it!”
EARDNLEY TURNER.


An Economical Portable Outfit
CONSISTING OF
A WESTINCHOUSE “GROSS” OIL ENGINE
y
MOUNTED ON A
STEEL GIRDER
UNDERCARRIAGE.
The Engine has NO
delicate Mechanism to
get out of order, and con-
sumes the MINIMUM
amount of kerosene
per B.H.P.
VRITEFOR BOOKLET
8.0.5 to —
stinghouse Brake Co.
Queensland Agents— Helenes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne </ Zealand Office: 83-f«.Feathereten St., Wellington.
Concord West, N.S.W,
m
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKY£R'£ SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’a gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co, Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SAFEGUARD your HEALTH
QtJXollij BrOtfD^Ss
CWoredyae
The Original and Only Gennine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks if'JEVJSKiSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of S pA SMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
the pains of GOUT,
SURALGIA, TOOTH-
RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, SJ-.
Made in England.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PROFITS IN SOFT DRINKS.
Vendor Should Get All the Profits.
m l
Ecker.sley’s No. 68 Combined Carbonator and
Filter, with Filling: Hack (1916 Model).
NOTE:—We manufacture Glass Washers,
Filters, Bser=raising Machines
and aii Accessories for the Trade.
Quadruple Your
Profits
by making your own
Aerated Water Supplies
with
Eckersley’s
Machines
or
Soda
m
Manufactured Solely in Australia by
CKERSLEY § SONS, 25a George Street, Sydney,
And Corner HAIC S CLARENDON STREETS, S. MELBOURNE.
Agents:
{A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, Currie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
JOHN RIGG & SON, Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z.
LIONEL SAMSON & SONS, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
TO BE SURE
c*
m
\
/ / y
TAKE
The tool with 5
is the Oster Bulldog- Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. NO small parts to break.
Made in
11 Useful
V
1
Moving: the releasing: lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading: are
m
m
If any
Bulletin
Manager,
illustration appearing in The
takes your fancy, write to the
who will quote you price for it.
WE CATER FOR THE WANTS OF
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
m
No matter what your requirements
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-GARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
we can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, LUBRICATORS, METAL-
LIC TUBES & SHEETS of ALL
descriptions, PETROL COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOOLS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.
304 Pitt Street,
Sole Agents for the FAMOUS
SCHEBLER CARBURETTER.


The All-Australian
m
m
* JfJt 1 1 i 3 ‘A
m
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
HERE’S A BIG TIME SAVER.
The Utopia Vise
practically gives you all the advan-
tages that can be gained by a dozen
ordinary vises in a dozen different
positions. The ordinary vise will
hold work in one fixed position—
the “UTOPIA” holds it in any
position desired. Has seven pairs of
jaws to take all classes of work-
largest capacity 7in. x 18Mn. wide.
Call and see, demonstration or write
for full descriptive folder.
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers ft Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
£1
1
n
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The “DICKBELT"
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—•
JAMES HARD IE «& CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
m
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
m
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
8 WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, I RON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Neiyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work„
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
UP
■l
Mj *' -
il£#l: GSPtefc
v.. tr. 'Z <li,c»,
!! W A Kfcs « i’T JjfflL
■*CSfc!
4^Wwe^jte-. : ;
\
Mis
BOUNDERS
No. 20 Planer
PLANES, 12in. x 4in.
Ball Bearings to all
Spindles.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustments to Side
Heads.
Delivery from
Sydney Stock.
he Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
i ■ ■ ; :
Warkrtotv, Fraaki, Limited,
Electrical and Mechanical Engineers,
309 Kent St., Sydney—3Bo Bourke St., Melbourne.
STOCKS:
Dynamos
Motors
Wires & Cables
Accumulators
Blackman Fans
Semi-Diesel Engines.
Electrical Goods of ail descriptions,,
en
PS
THE LATEST
HANDPIECE
Fitted with one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
en
is
All British
made, and the
most up-to-date
machine.
miuiti
Wr
In
Improvements
the
Lister
Leads.
Sole Agents
for Australia-
■V:
0-13 YOUNG
■
Agents in all
the States.
ENGINES.
Marine Stationary Portable.
rlvmir.
lAflf
A
'•‘‘-I k •f’wir
‘ • fy
‘
;i, /, y M
LTD.,
GUTHRIDGE
N.
Equitable Building,
George Street, Sydney.
