

J 3 X 3 "TOB r j9L -The Genial Spirit
R. O. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney*
—FOR— , .
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
A3KIOW 3DNVAQV 3M
On all Classes of’ SECURITY,
BILLS
TERMS AND
DE PIETE D &I C 2 Lip
Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215»217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
<0 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
SYDNEY
:
>
Take it back,
, u i Gar* : > v
Pint Apple Brand
I
ANTI BLOWPIPE
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Than sens
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
GOLF
BALLS
m
m
5w
Bed Malthoid has all the
qualities which make the
name Malthoid the stan-
dard of ready roofings. To
these are added the color
which is so popular.
RED
MALTHOID
The Paraffine Paint Company, Chains House, Sydney,
(D. S. Evans, Aust- Manager.)
Red Malthold will sot lose
color, nor blow off In
storms, nor leak, nor do
any snch thing, but it will
give absolute satisfaction.
Ret ns' send samples and
booklets.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L~
NSW,
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL, &' FARM. WA3GONS. ' ! IR<on & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
SH
RED
DER DISCS.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLiS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
lavender
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y01.37.—N0. 1896.]
[Thursday, June 15, 1916..
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW NOVELS
(For the
Winter Evenings).
McCall s The Stirrup Latek.
Bryant's Mrs, Crefton.
Sonaick's Son of the Otter.
Mister's Pentacost of Calamity.
Crede’s Sunlight Patch.
Cody’s If Any Man Sin.
Dixon’s Foolish Virgin.
Evans’s Then I’ll Come Back to You.
/
Gibb's Yellow Dove.
Beebie's Mrs. O H.
My Strange Life.
De Forest's Molly.
All at S/6 per vol.; posted, S/9.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
..J uj
cxS'
GCOOCK*
umn ui}.
HUDSON?
Suited for Old and Young, for
Coughs, Colds. Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
LET THE BOYER BEWARE!
The large sale for EUMENTHOL JUJTBE3
has led to a number of imitations being manu-
factured under the came of menthol an other
jujubes. It is important, therefore, when buwng
to be sure and get HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES. Yoa may be asked to buy orcer
jujubes, and be told they are '‘juft as ?oou
as Hudson’s KunVnthol Jujubes. Th:s proves
that these imitat pcs and sub sfirates hare no
reputation of theif own. and can only be
on the good reput* and high character of Huo-
sons Er.menthol Jujubes. Sold by all chemists
Price Is. 6d. I l "
The Red Page
Frederick McCubbin
Frederick McCubbin, doyen of Australian
artists, is now in his sixties. He was born
in West Melbourne in 1855. His father, a
baker, took him from school at 14, and
placed him in a solicitor’s office. He stayed
there six months; and his disgusted father,
who had, as he thought, given him a good
start in life, decided that the lad should do
some real work. He placed him as a driver
of one of his bread carts. However, these
things mattered little, since McCubbin had
determined to become an artist. But he had
not the least idea how to set about achiev-
ing his ambition. One day he found his
way to a night school at which drawing
was taught, though only in its application
to some trade-work. He had merely to copy
designs, etc. Then, by an accidental sight
of a fine copy of Titian’s “Flora,” a new
world of color dawned upon the hoy's
amazed vision. His father, dissatisfied at
Frederick’s lack of genius in driving the
baker’s cart, had a happy baker's thought.
If the boy would muddle with paint, why
not let him be a coach painter? Without
being consulted, the boy thereupou found
himself apprenticed to a firm of coach
painters. It is possible that somewhere in
Melbourne now there is a cart upon which
there could still be seen the faded remains
of some masterpiece of design and color
from the hand of Frederick McCubbin, the
only old master in the coach-painting genre.
Then a school-class for drawing was
started at the National Gallery, and the
coach-painter eagerly joined it. But he was
soon disillusioned. The lad wanted to draw
and to paint, and nobody seemed to be able
to teach him : the students were left entirely
to themselves. The drawing-class was sepa-
rated from the painting-class. But McCub-
bin bought a box of paints and set out
sketching on Saturday afternoons. By
1875 he was able to set up on his own
account doing piece-work for builders. By
working three days a week he managed to
support himself: the other days were free
for his art. With great anticipations he
joined the painting-class at the Gallery.
But herp he found, too. that the only thing
that was not taught was the way to paint.
The young ladies who composed the majo-
rity of the class were set to work copying
some picture in the Gallery, and when they
had finished that they started on another
one. Their copies were subjected to a
Vague, mostly complimentary, criticism from
the master; but there was no attempt made
to teach them to paint some simple natural
object. Probably that was the last thing
these damsels wanted. McCubbin was in
despair. It is hard for the modern art stu-
dent to imagine the plight of a youth who
wanted to learn to paint and couldn’t find
anybody to teach him. Luckily some animal
studies that he had made from life he sub-
mitted to Julian Ashton, then editing The
Australian Journal. Ashton bought some
of his black and white and encouraged him,
as he has encouraged so many of our Aus-
tralian artists, to persevere. Julian Ashton
is the prince of Australian art: he kissed
the sleeping beauty of the continent, and
she woke.
In 1576 his father died, and back the son
had to go to the baking trade to save the
business from collapse. However, the artist
was also a good baker, and under his man-
agement the business became so successful
that soon he was able to spare himself a
day or two a week for his real work. And
he found that with the advent of Mr.
Folingsbee to the Gallery the art school had
been reorganised. At last McCubbin had
found someone to show him the way he
would go. But even Folingsbee could take
him but a little distance along his unexplored
path. The teacher would not admit that
landscape should or could be painted in the
open air! But already his students had
broken away from that terrible tradition:
and Tom Roberts returned from England
with his new gospel of “relative values.”
With various other art students who subse-
quently made a name for themselves.
McCubbin set forth to paint Australia
under the Australian sky. instead of shut-
ting the continent up within a dusty studio.
And, finally, in 1884. the self-taught McCub-
bin was appointed drawing-master at the
Gallery. The rest is a long life devoted to
the painting of Australia, a long life of
achievement and slowly broadening reputa-
tion.
A concrete acknowledgment of this fact
now appears in The Art of Frederick
}fcCubbin. containing 45 illustrations in
color and black and white, published by
Lothian, Melbourne. The edition is limited
to 1000 copies, and the price, to non-sub-
scribers, is £3 3s. The publisher is to be
congratulated on the appearance of this fine
tribute to Australian art, since the book has
been printed and bound in Australia. The
cover is crude and garish, but the repro-
ductions, both in color and in black and
white, are brilliant and admirably inter-
pretative. All of the letterpress could have
been spared except the interesting bio-
graphy. The essay by James MacDonald,
and the anonymous introduction are merely
large words in nice fat type.
McCubbin is an artist Australian-born,
who survived it. All the other Australian-
born artists had to get out or get under.
McCubbin developed his art within the
Commonwealth: it was late in life that he
was able to visit the art centres of the
world: and that tour made little difference
te his outlook. McCubbin’s achievement is
a fine but not a world-shaking one. He is a
sincere painter of a limited number of
aspects of Australia. In his early woTk
every picture tells a story, and in his later
work he cannot altogether shake off the
narrative element ingrained in him by his
early environment and his lack of the right
artistic leading. It is not Australia that
McCubbin paints, but “bits" of Australia —
sincerely painted “bits” of beauty, distin-
Edward Lee Masters, the American “Belle-
rive,” author of "Spoon River Anthology.”
guished by a high technical skill, a mastery
of values and a delightful sense of color and
atmosphere. He has set down pleasantly
and permanently certain charming localities
in Victoria; he shows ns an Australia that
is full of verdure and old picturesque
fences and old picturesque huts, and happy
backyards with, fowls and children happily
engaged in their separate and important
pursuits. That is one aspect of Australia,
and it is McCubbin’s lasting achievement
that he has out it down for all time thus;
hut his scope is a severely limited one: he
leaves all the other aspects of Australia—
in fact, we may say, all the other Aus-
tralias. equally paintable—out of his can-
vas. Thus the book, itself merely a selec-
tion from his work, has an air of monotony.
It is a beautiful monotony, though. The
portraits—-for even so obvious a landscapist
as McCubbin has to become a portrait-
painter in this commercial Australia of ours
—are obviously not his first-love. They are
skilful, satisfying, probably excellent* por-
traits. and hard. To all these minor criti-
cisms, a mere glance at this lordly volume
will provide exceptions. But to have
produced some six of this array of pictures
is more than sufficient achievement for any
Australian artist’s sixty years of work.
And to this achievement must be added that
other already mentioned: McCubbin was
born an artist in Australia, and survived it.
Herbert Warren, who professes poetry at
Oxford, forwards a full report of his lecture
on Maoriland poetry—“a large and rich
crop. The best collection was Veto Zealand
Verse, by W. F. Alexander and A. E. Currie,
published by Messrs. Scott, in 1906. The
first poem, entitled ‘New Zealand.’ formed
an excellent introduetion. It was the work
of the Hon. Mr. William Pember Reeves, who,
in his Long White Cloud, had also written
an excellent history of the island. It pre-
sented a fair ideal. Other characteristic
and suggestive poems of his were ‘The
Colonist's Garden’ and the very touching
'Passing of the Forest.’ The contrast
between Australia and New Zealand was
well given in the verses entitled ‘Written in
Australia.’ by A. 11. Adams.”
In his sketch of M.L. poetry, he naturally
began with Domett. “A beautiful and
touching poem, suggesting the contrast
between the old and the new. was ‘Onawe,’
by Dora Wilcox.... There were other M.L.
poets whose works were worthv of note,
such as F. W. Broome. 11. Church, W. Law-
son. Mary Colbome Yeel, and Anne Glennie
Wilson.” He concluded with Ernest Currie’s
poem. “Laudabunt Alii.”
With reference to this Page's criticism of
V arren's lecture on Australian poetry, the
Professor writes that underneath the almost
grotesque slang of The Sentimental Bloke,
he recognises a good deal of genius; “but I
can hardly imagine that it will live indefi-
nitely. as it is so much bound up with the
fashion of the time. It will become in 30
years like an old Punch, historic but a back
number.” Professor Warren has also been
much struck with the work of the late
George Essex Evans, who seems to him to
have considerable depth, “and certainlv
wrote some very fine patriotic poems.”
While admitting that Douglas Sladen is not
in the true sense an Australian poet, the
Professor asks us to recognise that the
canse of Australian and M.L. poetry in
England owes a great deal to him —a fact
this page has abundantly admitted. The
Professor states that in his Australian lec-
ture he made considerable use of the work
of Arthur H. Adams. He specially men-
tions “The Australian”; and in his M.L. lec-
ture he read the whole of “Written in Aus-
tralia” to his audience. He is also im-
pressed favorably by Dorothea Mackellar:
A. T. Strong he thinks “a good artist” and
J. Sandes “a very spirited and stirring
versifier.” Finally. Professor Warren is
anxious to keep up to date in our poetic out-
put. The advice already given in this page,
for Australasian bards to forward all their
stuff, if necessary as freight, to Sir Herbert
Warren. Magdalen College, Oxford, is there-
fore sound.
"Bellerice,” the Australian Edward Lee
Masters, author of "Answers to Corres-
pondents" and other Works.
The Choice of Fiction
The hardened fiction-reader stood in the
subscription library thoughtfully choosing a
new novel. For one so hardened she looked
surprisingly flapperish. Being hardened, she
never read the book-reviews: they merely
told her what the critics thought of books,
and what did the critics know of the literary
yearnings of her soul? Besides, you had to
wade through their reviews before you found
out whether you would like the' book. Might
as well read the book. She had an easier
way. N'ot that she had invented it herself.
It was immemorial: since there were best-
sellers women have chosen novels this way.
Taking up each new novel in turn, she
deftly opened it at the first page, delicately
sipped the first paragraph, fluttered swiftly
to the last page, sucked the honey from that,
and knew. Every quotation telis a story—■
the whole story.
Out of the big batch of novels which the
nice young man assured her were all new 7,
she picked one. Zenia: Spy in Togoland. by
Mrs. Charlotte Cameron (Laurie).
Page 1. “Prepare to take first ship to Togoland;
will telephone for appointment this evening.” The
thin telegram slip fluttered from her hand: she
picked it up and read, several times, the blurred
carbon message, her wonderful eyes opening wide
with excitement.
Ha! Togoland? First ship! Her wonder-
ful eyes! Sounds exciting! (She did not
notice how neatly the author had given her
the key to her emotion by the deliberate in-
sertion of that word “excitement.’’)
Page 192. Within an hour Sir Norman and Lady
Trevallion sailed for Swakopmund: he to resume his
official duties until the dust of war had settled ; she
to live her life anew, a life sweetened by a strong
man's love.
Hm! Satisfying. So she wasn't a spy
after all. Sir Norman....a strong man’s
love. Fancy getting both, a strong man’s
love and a baronetcy! Yes, but these spy
stories?. ...
Peter of Potopah, by Lee Holt (Hodder
and Stoughton).
Page 1. The great range of the Rockies stood
coldly grey in the dusk of the coming night. Scarred
warriors, creatures of fierce moods, and gods of old,
they were like immovable spectres in the midst of
a transitory, fugitive world.
IIuli! American. Looks dull and grey.
(The author shouldn’t have used that
word.) All about mountains, too. Turn
over.
Page 311. A month later Peter was pardoned....
Five years later Peter married Betty. Their
farm prospered, and Betty’s dairy became renowned
for miles as a pattern of what a dairy should be.
They have three children....
That all? Three children and a dairy.
Next!
Youth Unconquerable, by Percy Ross
(Heinemann, per George Robertson. Svd-
ney).
Page 1. “And so, I suppose, I am penniless?”
Cherry had been sitting in her room in the second
oldest College for Women in Oxford, like an ordi-
nary girl before this moment; now she rose to meet
a tragedy.
Oxford.... ? Yes. it’s exciting when it’s
about men; but a Women’s College! Pretty
deadly, I should thiuk. All the same, she
isn’t an ordinary girl. Of coarse, she has
a hard struggle, and then she meets him.
Let’s see.
Page 354. Lavender laid her head with the
strangest sigh of comfort upon that enterprising
breast, surprised to feel so at home there; a Dew
and never dreamt content and pride invading her
hitherto selfless spirit. The moon shone and the
stars glittered, and the wind rose and the night
whispered as Menteith, etc. _
That’s funny. Wasn’t she Cherry to be-
gin with, and now she’s Lavender! (She
dipped and dipped in the hopfe of discovering
when and how Cherry turned T
der.) But that enterprising i?reast° eu '
strangest sigh of comfort. \Vo!dL* n - the
nice if I She re-read that
SET* “ sai "' Wfore
fLZIZ 1 ’* “**
Page 1. The Bishop of Alden was •
French upon Arsene LaComb It lsln S his
not any kind of French that had' evfr hL Cmai, %
by the folks back in Three Rivers. ° bwn s P«kea
Canadian, I suppose.
Page 542. Presently they rose and stood k .
Bishop. And as -the Shepherd blesse™ thrift the
hands . he prayed for these two who VeJe
Why, that might be a wedding i n
“W. P TeZl i Ifr
iSss£?.g£r.
Page 1. Steve Yeager held his bronco
Spanish trot. Somewhere in front of him 3
the brown hill swells that rose and fell like
of 'the sea, lay Los Roblos and break fas. 6
solitary silver dollar, too lonesome to iinde L,
his flatulent trouser pocket. After he °an’d v
Bits had eaten, two quarters would take the P C
ot the big cartwheel. 1 ace
American, of course, and another of those
cow-boys! See too many of them at the
pictures. And what does he mean 1 ' What’s
the big cartwheel doing on the back of the
bronco —that’s a sort of horse, I know and
what were they two quarters of? ’whv
couldn’t he say half? Too American for
me. However....
Page 290. Steve and Ruth looked at each other
and laughed. They went downstairs hand in hand
Finishes all right, but—l daresay I’ll se e
it all some day in the pictures.
Mrs. Balfame, by Gertrude Atherton
(Murray).
Page 1. Mrs. Balfame had made up her mind to
commit murder.
Page 373. Mrs. Balfame was alone with the crush-
ing burden of her soul.
This looks perfectly sweet. Murder! But
Mrs. Balfame? Why Mrs.? Sounds like
one of the neighbors. A married woman,
probably dowdy. Why not call her by her
Christian name? Rather tired of murder-
stories. And apparently nothing happens.
All she gets is a crushed soul. Xo-o-o?
She made her choice. She picked up—
which? Remember, she is the ordinary
reader of ordinary fiction, unmarried, with
a distinctly suburban home. She either
types in a dull office or helps mother in a
dull home, I forget which. She has had a
polite boy or two, but no strong man’s love,
no domineering personality had hitherto
loomed upon her restricted horizon. Both
were as far out of her reach as a baronet
for a husband or a wedding by a bishop.
Even a prosperous dairy farm, with or with-
out three children, was beyond her vision.
She had never had the emotional satisfac-
tion of suddenly learning that she was pen-
niless ; and the only murdering she had done
had been at the pictures. Fate had not
even allowed her the tragic luxury of a
crushed soul. She was not in love, but quite
ready to be in love, ready even to feel at
home on an enterprising breast. But there
seemed to be a strange lack of enterprising
breasts in her suburb.
Which literary salve or tonic did she
choose, for her urgent feminine emotional
need? It is not necessary to state; the
answer is too easy.
Decalogists are warned that the last day
for receiving the new Ten Australian Cbm-
mandments is June 17. All entries must
b« addressed to this page.
A Frenchwoman’s Notes on the TTar.jby
Claire de Pratz (Constable) has little en-
lightenment to give the reader. She chatters
on pleasantly, without displaying any re-
markable insight, and employing a style not-
ably deficient in vigorous or graphic phrase.
Yet she does give one interesting sugges-
tion why France was.so unready for tfar.
It was because the Republic feared the com-
ing of war. All Republican politicians had
perceived to what extent a possible war
would be dangerous to the Republic as a
form of government. They argned that if
France were to be vanquished, the nation
would consider the Republic as the respon-
sible cause of defeat, and would speedily rise
to overthrow it And if. on the other hand.
France were to be victorious the danger
might be still greater. They feared that a
victorious General might become a military
dictator. Hence, even till now. the press has
carefully abstained from encouraging the
popularity of any particular General.
Special Tribute to Mr. Edmond, late of
Bulletin Office.
Retired from the office
For ease and rest,
An editor and critic
Who was one of the best.
His weekly slafings
Tr ere but a lesson on art.
As The Bulletin chief he
Was true to his part.
Slatings I suffered
But would not despair.
Rough times had taught me
To grin and bear.
I resumed my task
Till I rounded the bend.
And in Mr. Edmond I found
-1 just critic and friend.
BELLERIVE


ase
Dressy Skirls
on d Smart Houses
t?/
Anthony
Horderns’
Z9//J
W/l
flv
k
40
9
2//~
C 300
*2/6
IX
<>
\
■
We
63/
A A
V.
We
£T*
- _
**%
%
<3s>
26>
2fes
Anthony Horderns’
for EVERYTHING.
THE reason for the
popularity of Anthony
Horderns’ New Palace
Emporium is not far to
seek. Gathered in the Fifty
Departments under one roof
are the fruits of Forest and
Farm, Mine and Mill, all
converted into forms of use
and beauty by the labor and
genius of man. The world
has been searched for all
that ministers to the physi-
cal and mental uplift of
society, and far and away
the best value in the land is
assured by
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
CUSTOMERS ORDERING
BY POST are treated in the
same way as those buying at
the Counter. The same prices
are charged, selections are made
from the same stocks, and every-
thing sent to the country is
carefully packed by experienced
men.
No. 7.' Black Ninon Blouse, mounted White Net, pretty vest of Cream Blond Lace, new
Toby Frill Collar and Cuffs of Kilted Aerophane 19/11. Extra O.S. 21/-
j\o. 3. Ivory Ninon Blouse, lined Japanese Silk, fine Guipure insertion and Kilted trills
No. 4. Matron’s Blouse, fine Black Lace, mounted White Ninon, with .Embroidered
Ribbon, in Black and Old Rose, Collar, Revers, and Sleeves of Black Ninon, Picot edged 31 /fj
No. 0.- — Novel White Net Shirt Blouse, hemstitc.ied throughout, front panel edged,
v Oollar an<l CufFs topped with Kilted Frill. Blace Moire Ribbon threads the Collar band,
No. t 300.—Stylish skirt, in Black Taffeta Silk, panel front, with three hemstitched
finished in smart, loosely-tied bow at back 10/11
flounces, folded Beit 49/6
No. 40. Fashionable Blouse, Of Chiffon Taffetas and Crepe Ninon, lined White Ninon.
The Silk forms Collar, Cuffs and lower part, running up almost to neck at back. Pleated
Ninon Vest effect. Black or Navy 33/6
No. 974.—Fashionable Skirt, in Black Chiffon Taffeta, scalloped flounces, finished ruchings,
gathered waist, shaped Belt 03 /_
No. 39. Smart Blouse, Of the new “Dice” Check Ninon, Collar, Vest, Shoulder and
Sleeves of White Ninon, joined up throughout with dainty Black hemstitching, narrow Black
Silk Ribbon Tie. Also stocked in smaller Check and various Floral designs 26/9
No. 9. Smart Bolero Blouse, of Taffetas over Ninon, lined White Net, deep Roll Collar
and Revers of White Organdi, trimmed fine Malines Lace and Insertion, pleated Cuffs of
Organdi, edged Malines. Black or Navy 32/6
No. I.—Dainty Unlined Ivory or Black Ninon Slip Blouse, hemstitched through-
out, upright Collar, finishing in pointed flap over. Black Velvet bound, fastened with small
Pearl Buttons, frilled Cuff 13/11
No. 2. Dressy Crepe de Chine Blouse, trimmed Butterfly Valenciennes Insertion,
finished edging of Black; Bow of Black Moire Ribbon, Ivory, Shell and Sky 27/6
No. B.—Charming Blouse of Ivory and Black Shadow Lace, mounted on shell
Pink Ninon, which turns out into the soft Roll Collar and Cuffs. Black Picot edging 29/6
No. 6. Blouse of White Net, trimmed Valenciennes Insertion ai d Edging, neck finished
in Nattier or Black Moire 18/11
WE are Family
Drapers, Complete
House Furnishers
and Universal Providers,
and offer three-quarters of
a million pounds’ worth of
the World’s Choicest Com-
modities, in variety that
puts all competitive effort
in the shade. Write for
illustrated Price Lists of
anything you want, post
free on request. They
place the immense resources
of the new Palace Emporium
at the command of every-
one, and enable no end of
savings to be effected
through the agency of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices.
Em
c 3/oi/jef
*y/?e Is/ps/ii
AT
th° iN O X
» i
A h N oppe rNS
«r
89/2
/Vfr.
/s/a
x eg?,
•-
lir
/:, I «E'3K i
.V C <5 5
h '■-
*** *#»
965
/1/6
wso
•*2/6
■-7
32
**/&
9/11
if pSo
i~/i j
7/n
9174
20/6
29
10/11
#l/2
/s/e
844
55/6
8/u
11
7902
29/a
No. 28. Striped Delaine Blouse, Polo Collar, turned-back Cuffs, tiny Pearl Buttons in
front, Black and White, Navy and White, Saxe and 'White : 12/0
No. 251. White Delaine Blouse, hemstitched throughout, sets of pin tucks through
fronts, turned-down Collar and Cuffs 10/11
No. 10. — Black Pailette Silk Blouse, hemstitched yoke and fronts, fastening almost to
the throat 13/11; 0.5., 14/11
No. 965. — 1v0ry Japanese Silk Blouse, hemstitched throughout, turned-back Cuffs,
Black Moire Bow - 11/6
Also in-CrOpe-de-Chine, without bow, 7081 14/6
No. 9174. Fine Serge Skirt, double-box-pleated back, Fancy Silk Buttons, Black or
Navy 28/6
No. 32. — Floral Delaine Shirt Blouse, upright Collar, with White turnover, pointed
Cuffs, Black and Pale Mauve, Navy, Blue and Saxe...< 9/11
No. 844. Walking Costume, in Donegal Tweed. Belted Sports Coat has self step
Collar, lined Polonaise; plain, high-waisted Skirt, full at foot. Grey, Brown and Reseda
mixtures 35 / 6
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS LTD
18/0
shaped seams and belt, trimmed self
15/6
No. 7902. Riding Skirt, in Fox’s Serge, buttoned down centre front, patch pockets, Black
or Navy 29 / 6
No. W3o.—Embroidered White Delaine Blouse, Collar, Cuffs, revers and front
embroidered scallops 12/6
No. 8412. Useful Skirt in fine Serge, shaped seams at side, has inverted pleats at foot.
In Navy and Black
No. 8912.—Smartly-cut Skirt, in Gabardine, has
buttons. Fawn and Khaki shades
No. 11. Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, upright Collar, Black Stock Tie, finished tiny
Pearl Buttons 12/6; Black 13/6
No. 27. Flannelette Blouse, shaped yoke, Pearl Buttons, attractive colorings, White
ground, Light Blue Flower and Dark Stripe in Crimson, Mole or Saxe ;. .. . 4/11
No. NO5O. Flannel Blouse, Cream ground, Blue and Grey Stripes, hemstitched yoke, high
Stock Collar, hemstitched sleeves, fastens front with two tabs 16/11
No. 31. Black Delaine Blouse, with White Spot, Plain Black Hemstitched Collar and
shaped Vest 8/11
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
m,
m
ji/j
mt/M
iTpnniininnniT\nTn , *~~ , ’r > 'mmTt>
imm
rjjnf/ifnnnm
i/imimni
dir
llni.
DOS
12, 16 and 20 Gauge
Light, Hammerless Repeating
Shotguns
Sportsmen differ as to whether a 12, 16 or 20 Gauge is
the best shotgun for field shooting, but the knowing
ones agree that the Winchester Model 1912 lightweight,
hammerless repeater is the one best bet in the shotgun
line. This Winchester being made in 12, 16 and 20
gauges permits an advocate of the big, medium or small
bore to indulge his fancy and be sure of getting a gun
that is true to its gauge in balance, weight and length.
All three gauges of this model are made of specially
selected materials. Nickel steel, which is twice as
' strong as ordinary gun steel, is used throughout for the
metal parts in this Winchester. This means a light-
weight gun without sacrificing safety or strength.
This gun has a cross-bolt trigger lock, a smooth,
quick and easy action, and a simple Take-Down
system. It loads and unloads easily and its shoot-
ing qualities are not excelled by the highest priced
double guns. There are many other pleasing and
exclusive features of this Winchester which appeal to
sportsmen that could be enumerated, but the gun itself
is the best evidence of its ♦ quality and desirability.
FOR A RFD LETTER DAY AFIELD,
m SHOOT A WINCHESTER SHOTGUN m
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs/' and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd./Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
p
r\
LOCAL
INDUSTRY
©/
4S'--
PATRIOTISM
I . Your '
Aim? e
Then have a JHOT
at smoking
The Australian Tobacco.
fc f
V.
s\
V t
iiM X
X
IE any illustration appearing in 'jliie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Bool^-Croafeer
CHEAPER THAN
Electricity, Coal Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All.
m
i
Vm
#...
ic
THROUGHOUT
>^£woms>^
tt?
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son u d v .
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
<puß|Su3 ‘lUßiiSuiUMig : s>|jo/v\
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK
Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/0. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
GUN, W. W. Greener wedge-fast crossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers auto-
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
OUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. \V. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GIN
.—FARMER’S FRIEND —12-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLL, 12/0
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
“I certainly believe it was
Clements Tonic cheated death
from claiming me as a victim.”
“I was pronounced incurable, and sent
home by those best able to judge.”
The following letter is remarkable for its earnestness in praise of tins
wonderful Medicine, which does so much good to those who are run down
with debility of the system, and whose health appears seriously iniP a lL e '
Mrs. Craft’s case is well known in the Parramatta district (N.S." •> >
where she has lived for years, and the story of her long suffering is we
known and can easily be verified. How she suffered year after year, an<
how she recovered through the use of Clements Tonic, is the talk o
Granville. Read the letter that follows, and if you are ill with debility, o
suffering with weak nerves and general weakness, try the magic of ttn i j
medicine, and give yourself a chance to recover good health. As it bene >'
others, so it may benefit you.
rainier House, Cooper Street,
Granville, N.S.W., _
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. \ 5/4 J, f f
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the afflicte 1
did not ask you to make known what Clements Tonic has done
me. It may be the means of directing others to health.
“It is ten years since I first got ill, and I had a five years’ ilhiess
the greater part of which time I was not even able to walk a •
I was in four different hospitals, and was operated upon 111 i *.
know the dread of the knife played havoc on my nervous eonsti ’
so that I was not only weak in body but weak in nerves.
“I was pronounced an incurable, and sent home by those who
were best able to judge. Friends sat by my bedside at mgbt-
expecting to see the last of me, but I certainly believe that i 1
Clements Tonic cheated death from claiming me as its victim,
have lived in the Parramatta district all my life, and it «o
very easy to verify my statement. You may iise*this as you tn
“tSionedl ALICE CRAM-
Witness: HENRY GOUGH. J.P. t»i„ueu;
Pate: April 19, 1916.
If you have Insomnia take Clements Tonic and sleep like a child.
If you have Constipation this medicine gives new stomach strength.
If you have Sick Headithes or Neuralgia it gives immediate relief.
Your home is not medically equipped without it. Get it to-day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, puffiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
•peWMirsi
.Kidney Scßladder Pills
| These Pills also act on the liven
|k A HOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE! X*§
W&e:
ijjfcyife o NDO N,
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing ..Joii.ch on the right
spot—the kidneys and tile bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or bow badly
vou have suffered.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Fret
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, ' Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
,B.S.A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook's
[Saddles,' etc.
ILATEST
MODELS
£3mlO to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual p/icet.
Write at once*, using sufficient postage, fot
Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE
Dept. A 282
COMPANY,
LIVERPOOL.
Protect
Your
Throat!
It’s largely a matter of
care. Don’t leave it to
chance, be on your guard
against attack.
Jffir ■
Wilson’s “Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
are the surest protection you can get; you
can rely on them warding oft Coughs anu
Colds successfully. Keep them handy.
If you are unfortunate to have a cold,
Pino-Menthos will relieve you instantly.
They have a remarkable manner of getting
right at the root of the trouble.
Pleasing to the taste. 1/- per tin, of all
Chemists and Storekeepers,
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt St., Sydney
_ ARE YOU n
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? _ Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent -vri-i-ci
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everythin^
This is something ENTIRELY NEW I it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away alto o etner
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft ™bb e O
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is
reach of all. Can y°u as V. qppttritY
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURIir,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSIED 1 RLE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
For Children
Nothing is more irritating than the continual
coughing of children. Unchecked, a cold so
quickly spreads to others. To instantly re-
lieve, and quickly cure COUGHS, COLDS
or WHOOPING COUGH, give the child-
ren “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss.” Take none
but—
TT-
-3
V •
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
J
JZ
&
WAX
Don’t
Scrub
Keep Your Linoleum
Like New with
It Cleans, Polishes and Finishes
in one simple operation. For polishing linoleum it has no equal.
It brings out and preserves the pattern. It imparts a beautiful finish
which any housewife can easily keep in good condition. It does the
work quickly —an ordinary-size floor can be polished in less than an
hour, and may be walked upon immediately. It won’t gather dust—
doesn’t show heel or finger marks —never becomes hot or sticky—is
unaffected by water —is sanitary, durable and disinfecting.
Beautify Your Home with
Johnson’s
Prepared Wax
mit on your furniture or piano—-
the improvement will surprise you.
It gives Craftsman furniture that
soft, artistic
polish so appro-
p ria t e to the
style. It entirely
removes “cloud-
ine s s” from
mahogany furni-
ture, restoring , „ r .
its original gloss. There is nothing like Johnson s Prepared \\ ax tor
keeping the dining-room table bright and tempting —bpt dishes have
no effect whatever upon it. .
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared \\ax. It is
just as useful round the house as soap. It is always ready for use
doesn’t deteriorate. With it all you need is a cheese-cloth or woollen
Keep a tin always at hand, ready for quickly and thoroughly cleaning
and polishing your
Floors
Linoleum
Wood Work
Piano
Furniture
Leather Goods
Motor Car
Coif Sticks
Gun Stocks, etc.
Sold by Most Good Dealers.
Insist on your tradesman supplying you. He can easily secure
Johnson’s Prepared Wax and Johnson’s Wood Dye through any ot
‘ our Australian Distributors :
SYDNEY: Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co. (Whol.) ; D. C. Ramsay & Co.;
Jas. Sandy & Co. ;H. H. Groth & Co.; Mark Foy’s Ltd. ;F. Lassetter to.
MELBOURNE: Jas. Hardie & Co. (Whol.) ; H. J. Oorder; Mutual Stores; Wm. and
Geo. Dean; John Danks & Son.
ADELAIDE: King & Co., Weymouth Street.
BRISBANE: Jas. Sloan & Co.; R. S. Exton & Co.
PERTH: Hamer & Co. (Whol.) ; Jas. Eastwood Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: Hart & Sons Co. TIOBART: Davis & Co.
AUCKLAND: Hill & Plummer Ltd.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) : Gollin &Co Pty. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON 8 SON, “ The Wood Finishing Authorities,”
Factory: Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A. Cable Address: Johnson, Racine.
Australasian Office, 379 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS COUPON will bring you a generous trial tin. Post it to-day.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON —(Address c/o your nearest distributor). AC
I enclose 6d. for a trial tin of Johnson’s Prepared AV ax, sufficient for polishing
several pieces of furniture, a small floor, a square of linoleum or a motor-car.
Please also send me your new 1/- Color Book free.
Name
Address •
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Grave.
There is a majesty in carven stone
M ith solemn emblem and emblazoned scroll;
But, in the dull reverberations of the roll
Of slow-swung bells, in lavish blossoms
thrown, -
I find but empty forms. I know a grave
With no pale effigy or wreathed urn,
But one white cross, that passers-by may
learn
The name of him laid there. That he was
brave
Needs no brass capitals in serried rows;
’Tis in the one short legend at his head —
“He fell in action.” And the wild thyme
blows
Where Nature makes a garden for her
dead.
.EGYPT.
GEOFFREY CUMINE.
Knowledge.
Was it you, or the rushing stream, or the
grass rain-splashed,
Or the voice of a bird in the hedge to its
drowsing mate,
The grey of the twilight sky where the
first star flashed,
Or the drone of the freighted bee flying
home so late?
Or the clover blooms in the sparkle of dew-
light sweet.
Or the moon like a silver rose on a field of
stars ? —-
Through the high black trees her white
light fell to my feet,
Making a ladder of brightness with crystal
bars.
And I thought: “My heart is glad for the
evening star,
And the silk-soft world, and the song of
birds in the land”....
With the sob of the waves between, in this
city afar,
I know that the gladness lay in the touch of
your hand.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
The Sun Mote.
Like a sun-mote lost in a darkened house,
you flitted from room to room,
Shivered away from the gnawing mouse,
shuddered from corner gloom,
Halted awhile where the winds carouse
round the stunted yellow broom.
Like a sunbeam piercing a broken tomb.
retreating in sudden fear... .
Had I built a fire in the draughty room, I
might have trapped you, dear —
Scattered the reign of the sullen gloom and
bade you a welcome here.
Had I built a fire of my misty books, of
parchment to feed the flame,
I could have lured you with golden looks and
wheedled you as you came;
But the yawning grates were as black as
rooks, and Joy a forgotten name!
You glanced your light o’er the empty grate,
you wept o’er the icy tiles,
Then turned you round to the open gate
where the broad warm roadway smiles,
And I felt the need of you all too late—and
the call of the sunlit miles!
QUEEN SX.AND.
M. FORREST.
Wandereis.
We wanderers on careless roads,
By reckless fancies led 4 ,.
To bear on devious ways our loads,
And miss the goals ahead
That others, careful of their ways,
By purpose set attain,
Garner a harvest from our days
That they may never gain.
We know the griefs of smiling paths
That into deserts bend ;
The cold and bitter aftermaths
Of hours that we misspend;
Yet those white thoughts, we cherish best
Are culled in wasted hours ;
The bracken of an idle jest
May hide the-fairest flowers.
We ponder not with thoughtful eyes
Our choice of ways to test,
The road that careful souls despise
Proves for our joys the best.
We are content with happy sound
To, take the gain and loss;
Life breathes a thought-air bland and kind
Where tangled footways cross.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Pastel.
A mouth like a rose
That is nourished on wine;
Two lips that disclose
An immaculate line
Of the winsomest teeth ;
Then, just underneath,
A chin —oh, a chin
That is tempting as sin
To a timorous saint.
But if once I begin
Maladroitly to paint
All that poets might sing
Of your beauty, dear thing,
I shall never get through,
And that wouldn’t suit you,
Or I judge you amiss.
Is that pout half a kiss?. ...
I don’t mind if I do!
But your sweetness, my life,
Has a swift poison hid in ’t.. . .
Will I make you my wife?
Would you mind if I didn't?
N.S.W.
BYRON BOKER.


RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENYER
0
PRICES
Single, 17/0.
Double, 22/0.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
i
11
[il«l
m
Hiss
\J*
ufuyjillW
SiijjaalS
!,v
uj iib
ora
ill
II IK
hi ■ M
m
hi
iiEZli
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £4,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration -Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
[4
mss?
CAR COMPANY,
THe New 1916 Model, 4-24.
AMERICA’S FINEST PRODUCTION
AT A POPULAR PRICE.
A PERFECT SPECIFICAI lON.
MOTOR —Four cylinder; enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets. Cvlinders —Cast en bloc,
bore 3f, stroke 4J. FRAME —Channel, pressed steel. HORSE POWER —224 R.A.C. OILING
SYSTEM—Force feed and splash system, with sight feed on dash. POWER 'PLANT—Unit in
construction. COOLING SYSTEM—Thermo syphon. RADlATOR—Honeycomb; special
Pullman type. CARBURETION—SchebIer Model R, IGNITION—High-tension magneto.
TRANSMISSION—SeIective sliding type, ball bearing, three speeds forward, one reverse.
CLUTCH—SingIe steel plate drive, having two wire-woven asbestos discs, between which the
steel driving plate is located. Clutch completely housed and runs in oil, and requires no adjust-
ment. AXLES —Front, solid drop-forged 1-beam ; rear full-floating. BRAKES —Internal and
external, lOin. WHEELS —Wood; demountable rims. SPRINGS—Front, semi-elliptic; rear,
full cantilever. STEERING! —17in. wheel, worm and sector irreversible, special Pullman
make and design. BODY—Beautiful stream-line ; five passenger ; standard color, putty grey, nickel
radiator, nickel fittings. DOORS—“U” type; concealed hinges. FENDERS —Special Pullman
type; crowned. DRIVE —Right-hand centre control, emergency brake lever forward of centre and
out of way. WHEEL BASE—II 4 inches. LIGHTING —Electric, 12 volt., storage battery, Apple
Co. dynamo, lOin. headlights, dimming attachment for street and city use, and electric tail
light. STARTING—Electric self-starter, Apple Co., most reliable and efficient. WIND
SHIELD —Clear and rain vision, ventilating, exclusive Pullman type, conforming to and built
integral with curved cowl dash. HOOD —One-man khaki hood, easy-folding, quick-acting side
curtains, carried in hood; hood fastens rigidly to wind shield. HORN—Electric Klaxon.
SPEEDOMETER—Stewart trip and season mileage. GASOLINE TANK —Carried in cowl •
capacity, 10 gallons. INSTRUMENT BOARD —Electric light switch; ignition switch, speed-
ometer, gasoline filler and sight-feed oiler and light on dash. REGULAR EQUIPMENT —Wind
shield, one-man top, quick-acting curtains, speedometer, electric horn, pump, jack, tyre repair
outfit and tools, tyre irons, and extra rim in the rear; weight, fully equipped, 194 cwt. • 4in.
tyres, “Batavia.” Genuine fulE-leather upholstery.
A Complete Car can be supplied in
Roadster (Single-seater) Models.
PULLMAN.—Right-hand Drive
French Grey -Khaki Tod.
> i
cV
Tear off slip on this page and mail to any of the firms named below, and by return you
will receive “Pullman” literature. J J “
PULLMAN CARS.
Without any obligation to me please forward copy of Illustrated Pullman Car Booklet.
Name ... v
Address
Bulletin.
Melbourne:
FINLAY BROS.,
675 Elizabeth Street.
Sydney:
HUGHES BROS.,
196 Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide:
VIVIAN LEWIS Ltd.,
Gawler Place.
Brisbane:
J. G. O’RYAN & Co.,
128 William Street.
New Zealand:
J.-A. REDPATH &
SON, Cashel St.,
Christchurch.
Tasmania:
DUNCAN LOANE,
The Esplanade,
West Devonport.
Perth:
iloyds ltd.,
888 Hay Street,
Perth.
(PERFECTION ITSELF]
The DETACHABLE OUTBOARD
motor.
A
See also Page J/8.
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running:
3d per hour.
2 % B.H.P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible
High Tension (waterproof) R eV er-
sible Magneto Ignition, of the verv
best make. •
Submersible Parts made from best bronze-
rust-proof. ’
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON.
Sole
Australasian Agents,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
■/:
4
r
rP
>
V
''y
h
h
$
BEST
in the
LONG
RON.
DUVAL & CO.. 13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 145 Collins Street,
rAnMr , , . MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LI D., Adelaide.
A. C. McCALLUM , PERTH.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD , HOBART.


The Bulletin
Registered at tiie General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
V cl. 37.—N«>. 18 Mi.
THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1916.
Price 6d.
KITCHENER’S FIVE MILLIONS.
THE DEAD: “Too late! You struck too late! See, here are my Avengers!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drajts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to Hie
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
J US Th'e contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the ‘‘Correspondence’' column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable ), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditioiis are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,-
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco j C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
Si)th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lP. G. P. Perera, 1G Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.: United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherivise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to ISoz., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
JTuTZ&xxlleZztfL.
THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1916.
WHICH WAY, LABOR?
Tiieke is no room for difference of opinion
about these things :
1. The cost of living has gone up and the por-
ch sing power of wages has gone down.
2. There has been decreased production and an
enormous increase in importations.
3. The national debt is swelling like a balloon
and the drain of interest is correspondingly increased.
4. Strikes are without parallel in the country’s
history, and are probably more numerous in pro-
portion to population than anywhere else on earth.
5. Taxation is rapidly moving upwards and it is
going to keep on climbing.
What the politicians intend to do about it
all they have not the remotest idea. They
are living from hand-to-mouth, wasting
public cash and groping around for schemes
and devices that may distract the attention
of the community from the more vital
issues. And that is what the matters just
enumerated happen to be: _ they cut right
across the grain of Australian politics, and
can no more be avoided or their consequences
disregarded than the war can be eliminated
from the consideration of contemporary
events. To some extent the ineptitude lately
displayed by the numerous Parliaments in
Australia is the climax of many years of
demoralisation —the reflex of an evil system
of government by which public opinion is dis-
torted and the nation’s own statute books
made instruments of political reaction. To
some further extent the calamities enumer-
ated above are the results of popular igno-
rance; and it is just about time the citizens
of Australia commenced to consider seriously
where thev are getting to, what they want
to achieve, and how they are going to do it.
Also, it is time for the various political
parties which give birth to politicians, to
make up their minds what they are standing
for. the methods they desire to be identified
with, and the name and address of what they
call their objectives. The habit of wildly
cursing the price of meat and strikes and
the Kaiser is merely futile. It settles
nothing. If it did—well, Hughes would
long ago have settled everything.
To frantically yell “Damn!” and fling a
vote into a ballot box is about as effective
as to make the same remark and toss the
domestic cat out of the window. Loud howls
about the cost of living and the prevalence
of strikes are of no assistance to the com-
munity unless accompanied by clear speci-
fications of what reform these enraged P a rtij
sans have to offer. And there are about <Go
good, sound reasons why the Australian
people should be sourly critical on this point
and examine their noliticians and political
“programmes” and “platforms” with a
microscope. This paper has got some very
definite ideas about Australian industry,
but it is not mad enough to suppose that indus-
try can be other than a jest if there is a strike
every five minutes. Also The Bulletin
is not without faith that the cost of living
can be maintained within reasonable bounds
by public authority acting honestly and with
understanding. But it is just as firmly con-
vinced that only additional confusion and
heavier burdens on the Australian family
will follow in the trail of seven vote-hunting
Ministries pretending to grapple with their
problem by, on the one hand, piffling with
price-fixing ordinances in which the differ-
ence is split between 2d, and 21d., and, on
the other hand, piling up the cost of govern-
ment, wringing larger and larger sums from
the common herd by taxation, and squander-
ing millions on wasteful undertakings. How
much further this madness will go is not
hard to determine. It cannot be far. Some-
thing is going to break. The citizen who
contemplates the figures relating to imports
and exports, to loans and interest, to taxa-
tion, strikes, the cost of commodities and
public expenditure, and who fails then to
detect a creaking sound, must be hard of
hearing.
» * * •
There was a time when the people,
alarmed at the prospects, turned from the
muddlers of the Old R6gime and looked for
salvation from organised Labor. To some
extent their trust was justified; to some
extent grossly betrayed. But whatever the
past may have given, to-day nobody knows
what to expect from the movement, because
Labor is talking with two voices. From one
set there comes this definition of the Labor
movement: —
Labor stands for social justice and seeks to achieve
it by constitutional and economic reforms, securing
to the worker the full reward of his labor, and by
enlightened legislation and prudent administration
moving towards the goal of Socialism.
From another group comes this: —
Reforms of existing conditions are no good to us.
What Labor stands for is the sweeping away of the
wages system, the establishment of industry upon a
basis of fraternal co-operation, and the complete
destruction of Capitalism.
If the Australian citizen, with a rapidly
diminishing earning power, involved either
directly or indirectly in strikes that are as
numerous as atrocities in the war zone,
with a growing debt on his shoulders and
before him the certainty of there being more
of it —if the citizen is to understand that
Labor’s curative treatment will consist of
upending wages altogether, and getting
everyone to join hands and go on a fresh
tack, where is he to suppose that that will
land him? With one ear he hears Labor
telling him that its objective is along the
lines of historical prudence, constructive
statesmanship and reform. With the other
he hears that this is no good—that there
is a short cut to something he doesn’t under-
stand, by climbing over the ruins of the
things he has been struggling to improve.
And with his eyes he sees Labor Ministries
continuing to create more embarrassment
for the people in the fond hope that they
will be rewarded with votes and three cheers
for doing it. Taking matters by and large,
it looks a fair thing to suggest that the time
is ripe for Labor to explain whether it is
steering north or south or both ways together.
* * - * *
A political party which with one breath
proclaims Cohen to be the linch-pin of its
policy and the lOU the people’s sword and
buckler against oppression, and with the
next asserts that Capital is a monster which
must be destroyed ; a party which' is vari-
ously described as (1) aiming at evolu-
tionary progress and (2) demanding prompt
revolution; a party at once of order and
disorder, of practical aims and impractic-
able visions—surely such a body is in a
bad way. And a country chained to the
party Joss, where uproarious conflicts
between Ins and Outs obscure the clash
of principles, is in a bad way, too. Aus-
tralia cannot afford to be in this position.
Nor can its trades unionists afford to
see the Labor movement strangled by loan-
mongers and parodied by Labor Ministries,
or reduced to the condition of a pipe
installed for the purpose of assisting the
escape of hot air. To them the profoundest
significance attaches to such questions as
the cost of living, the encouragement of
production, the prevention of waste, the
protection of the wage-earners from the
exactions of boodlers and monopolists and
incidentally from parasites of their own
class. These are the fundamental things,
far transcending such considerations as
whether, regardless of anything else, a cer-
tain coterie of individuals shall be privi-
leged to climb on the shoulders of their
fellows into a well-paid job.
THINKING BY A CREEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
j trained here from Adelaide through 200
mdes 0 f w heat land, and not many bad acres
1* it all-Hamley Bridge, Balaclava, Brink-
worth, Gladstone, Laura, Booleroo Centre,
and, at last, Wilmington, in the fertile plain
between the ranges of Flinders and the
Horseshoe. And then a couple of hours of
, . . ~ , , , , , ,
afternoon driving through wheat-land and
avenues of haystacks, the horses scrambling
UP clay-slate hills in the Flinders Range, and
down into a cup of slate and sandstone and
feathery-topped gums in Spring Creek—a
mere slice in the black soil of an old flat, rich
as Stilton cheese. A last look at the plain and
the Flinders and the Horseshoe before falling
into the cup; grey gums in the watercourses;
bald hills each with a solitary she-oak on
guard half-way to the sky-line; yellow hills of
the near Flinders, with the green of gums in
the channels; the blue of the distant Flin-
ders, and the purple and red of the Horse-
shoe. Something very human in the shapes
of the sprawl in" foothills—breast and navel,
shoulder and hip, ankle and toe. The deli-
cate light of Central Australia in the late
afternoon: Wilmington now only as rows of
plantation, but, closely seen, beautiful in its
amphitheatre of hills, j'ellow, purple and red,
and the morning-glory vines to splash the
evening with violet. The light and the great
spaces that belonged to my youth ; the white
gums in the streets of Wilmington; and
miles or so away, and starboard of the sun-
set, Port Augusta and Pichi llicln 1 ass. At
foot, the long, wide saucer of the plain, straw-
yellow, and brown in stubble and tallow.
South, the sorrowful acacia and the swamp-
gums drooping like them. W estward, the
cup aforesaid, and a mine at the bottom of it
stranded like a tea-leaf. And then a long,
sliding, slithering progress to the bottom ot
the cup.
I left it all as the sun dipped with
an appearance of haste, and went further
down the cup to the camp on an open
platform of flat stone on a level with
the graceful treetops of the gums m
the creek bed. With the sunset the last
cockatoo shrieked his mingled menace and
apprehension, and the last bird found silence.
Rabbits came out of the burrows in the creek
bed, and began to feed as we began shooting
them. Two fell, but the others came back
again and ate, uninterested in the probability
of death leaping from the camp—greedy as
privilege, and like monarchy in that
they survive the death of the best.
Criminal fools introduced them to Aus-
tralia, and then other criminal fools
introduced new forms of death to destroy, the
original curse. The poison-cart has wiped
out kangaroo, wallaby and Australian birds
and left the raboit flourishing. The doctrine
of the survival of the fittest may be true when
animals are left to fight for survival with
only natural weapons: but let the sneaks of
civilisation or the lightweight scientists enter
the game, and the fittest survives least,
because strength is unsuspicious. With a
grin or with treachery a clown may kill a
SIIAKSPEARE.
Partly because of that poison cart and the
absence of the fleshy thud of wallaby hopping
out to feed, the night closed in to silence;
silence with a starlight that leaves things half
visible and without the mystery and decep-
tion of moonrays. In that light a man may
still see. Yet not if he have the dull eyes
that cannot interpret and remember, but re-
ceives only the fleeting image of things as a
pool receives a passing cloud. The air
divinely soft; the clean trees against the
purity of the sky-line; a night with all the
beauty and the melancholy of youth. I had
wondered for months what it was I wanted,
and here it is—with the ear not yet broken-
in to it, and being broken in with discom-
fort, as a man new to Venice lies awake
listening vainly for the noises of traffic.
Peace moving through quietness and cleanli-
ness to absolute silence.
I did not want even friends —the best of
the friends I’ve summered and wintered with
—desiring so much to be alone that I would,
if I could, have left my body and gone deeper
into the silence, glad not to hear even the
sound of my own pulses. I remember one
such quiet night at Heemskirk, spent riding
across the featherbed of the button grass;
the Cape Sorell light 35 miles away, occult-
ing, momently blazing at my shoulder, and
going back to darkness. The sunset had
ranged the hills of granite for an hour and
glistened to the sand dunes, the sun, flat as
a pancake, dropping into the sea, where came
Tasman in the Zeehan and the Heemskirk
to give a name to two hills. Two hundred
and fifty years thereafter the people of the
coast changed Mt. Heemskirk to Mt. Agnew
in honor of a doctor of Hobart, who lost some
money in a tin-mine that didn’t have enough
tin to go round. How English !
Myrtle forest and button grass were passed
before dark ; later that night I made camp
in silence so deep that imagination might
hear the leeches of the swamp telling tales
of blood letting. That’s the real life for a
man: hard work, and honest weariness, and
a dive in clear water; a night of stars and a
kindly air to blow upon the brow that has
earned contentment with sweat. And silence!
Yet, at Heemskirk, in all that hell of diffi-
culties of development and transport, there
were batteries lying about tiie hills, all the
mountains of granite and button grass pegged
for leases, and “mines” taken up in the surf.
Man is a strange animal. Heaven is quiet-
ness, and Hell is noise and bad smells; yet
has he invented government without ability,
privilege for fools, and war which nobody
escapes except the makers of it.
Here in this creek in the Flinders Range
is a sanctuary of which the like should be
made compulsory on one night of the year;
every man forced to go alone, to think him-
self out, and decide which part of himself
he should kick hardest. The shopkeeper, and
the exaggerated and ridiculously dignified ex-
ample of him, the wholesaler, who flaps the
flag and bleats empire to-day in the sure
and certain hope that he will buy of Ger-
many a day after the war, if Germany will
be the cheaper; the mouth-fighters and self-
advertisers who generate limelight from the
bones of decent men; and all the noisy
frauds who think that Patriotism consists in
loudly and publicly hating Germany rather
than in loving Australia so much as to cheer-
fully bear discomfort for her sake; the
Judge whose cruelty lies in the love of hurt-
ing the men he sentences; the barrister who
for money will defend the criminal he knows
to be guilty, and then accept a brief to prose-
cute in a conspiracy to defeat the law —here
to this creek should they come. Also, all
parsons, kings and aldermen, and all such as
defeat the truth, split hairs and deceive them-
selves. But whether they could be silent long
enough to bring themselves to a level con-
sideration of themselves is quite another
matter.
So, like a grain in the bottom of this cup
in the hills, I breathe the starry silence and
am saturated with it. Eastward there is
wheat land, limestone, mallee, Wowserville-
on-the-Yarra, Riverina and the Pacific;
westward, the two Gulfs, long plains and
salt lakes, the Golden Mile and the Indian
Ocean ; northward, millions of acres of wheat
land and pasture, saltbush, spinifex. the lost
rivers, Mitchell and Flinders grass, and a
territory four times the size of France—
France, that liberator of the world in thought
and action, whose fall would put back
the clock of the world further than if all the
other combatants fell dead to-night; south-
ward, more wheat lands, and limestone ami
the terraced country from Murray Bridge to
Kingston and Robe, where if petroleum •
not struck directly I shall iTShSU
annoyed. (So money-getting won’t stay £
of the programme. Retro me Sathanas,)
Further south, Tasmania and all the fr o £
devils that sail the winds between
Horn and Whale Head. Upe
What is the sum of all this greatness thi«
lonely spaciousness? Its future is big and
in such times events do not tarry their f>
term in the womb. For Australia the future
is about to be delivered, and no child can 1 .
named until it is born. Fools, mostly im
ported, tell us we have no history because
we have no tradition—tradition, the fact of
the liar and the holy writ of the charlatan’
Had we this thing called tradition we would
be torn to pieces as Europe is to-day. The
oldest country in the world, we are the
youngest. Fate does not reserve such a
jewel as this for nothing greater than acci-
dent or caprice. Fortune did not, without
aim. protect this land by 4000 leagues of sea
until the older -world could learn that state-
craft is as hollow a mockery as priest-
craft, and that in good government there is
no mystery. And good government and the
peace of the world will come only with uni-
versal republicanism.
These hills are gracious and silent because
the privileged class is not here to partition
the land and the chances among itself. Given
Australia settlement a thousand years ago
and to-day some such privileged class as that
governing England, which can neither work
nor think, would be ordering the thinkers
and the workers to do their fighting. Aus-
tralia. just because it has no traditions and
is modern and hard-headed, has done better
in the war in proportion than any other
part of the loose confederation miscalled an
empire; big-framed, big-souled men gone to
help the helpless and revive the dead. The
great trouble with monarchies is that they
are fat-headed with tradition and never
modernise; barbarians wdio wall not be of
to-day. who cling to superstitions and live in
the dirty past that privilege built to make
easier its grinding of the faces of the poor.
There is a silence at Gallipoli. Only the
voices of the fools who caused that silence
bray in safety.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE CURSE OF THE “SECRET”
DISEASE.
“T. Pallidum” discusses? a matter of just
about as much national importance as the
war: —
The English Royal Commission on Venereal
Diseases has issued a plainly-written report which
should be of profound interest to Australia. Inci-
dentally it points out, as a result of exhaustive
inquiry, that 50 per cent, of sterile women are
rendered so by gonorrhoea, that 24 per cent, of the
children in London blind schools are blind by reason
of maternal gonorrhoea and another 30 per cent, by
reason of inherited syphilis. It refers to the pre-
disposition to cancer of the tongue which is one of
the legacies of syphilis in adults, and to the heavy
mortality from syphilitic diseases of the blood-
vessels. Imbecility and idiocy are largely due to
inherited syphilis. Out of 1001 pregnancies investi-
gated, in 150 syphilitic families, 172 resulted in mis-
carriages or still births. One out of every seven
males and one out of every 33 females admitted to
the London County Council asylums are lunatics by
reason of general paralysis, and general paralysis is
an after-result of syphilis. The total cost of
asylum treatment for syphilis-created lunatics in
England and Wales is over £150,000 a year. In the
one year 1912 the British “home” naval and military
forces, totalling 226,092 men, lost 485,655 days as
a result of venereal disease, or 1330 years of working
time, for which the country paid. Amongst the adult
civil population the loss in wages could not be
calculated, owing to the absence of any means ot
obtaining returns, but it must have been enormous.
The deaths from venereal disease are concealed by
the absurd system which makes a death-certificate a
public document, and deters a doctor from stating
his honest opinion of the primary cause of deat
for fear of offending the victim’s relatives.
* * * *
The Commission addressed inquiries to 285 hospi-
tals supported wholly or in part by public con ll
bution. Only 67 of them were civil enough to
reply. In the great majority of hospitals it "as
found that no adequate records for statistical pur
poses were kept. Treatment of venereal lsease
was not encouraged in general hospitals, an some
of the subscribers objected to the admission o
venereal cases. Some “public” hospitals had ru es
forbidding the admission of the disease.
Health authorities provide practically no 0 cia
facilities for laboratory diagnosis in this direc-
tion ; and the training of medical student*
was found to be insufficient, with t e
suit that medical men do not always re y*'
these diseases with enough seriousness.
Commission is uncompromising in respect to ns
feature. “The medical practitioners of this coun
are to a large extent unfamiliar with the ne''j-
methods of diagnosis and treatment. m 'g rp
be expected, the trade medical journa s
vigorously combating this statement, and o e
wise hurling mud at the Commission for 1 s o
conclusion that “concerted action by a P u
authority is essential” for dealing properly "i
question. The quack and “young man's frie
harpy are cordially recommended for penal
The’evidence of ’a representative of the Natl
Society of Herbalists is left to speak for “ sel ” .
“in our opinion effectually disposes of t e
of herbalists to be regarded as competent to
venereal diseases.” Incidentally they ex P r
definite opinion against the Contagious Diseases - >
and regard them as rather more prone to jj V)
spread of disease than to control it.
“There can be little doubt that a frarrer a
towards these diseases would lead to less 00
ment, often involving recourse to quack rem >
which may retard cure or render it impossi l >
would thus assist in checking one of the gr
evils which can afflict a community. in - -
might with advantage be tattooed on the
those publicists who cannot speak of venere , j.
without calling it a “hidden canker or a
curse” or a “red plague” or by some ot er
synonym. .
* * *
The Commission gets off some useful recom
mendations as to what should be 0 ~a
England, but its report should interes - I ‘-
more particularly in respect to what can an
be done here. Venereal diseases are admit* .
prevalent in Australia, and they will become _f
prevalent as an almost inevitable conseque


military conditions. There is sitting at present in
Melbourne a Federal Committee for Investigating
Causes of Death and Invalidity in the Commonwealth.
One of its selected subjects of inquiry is venereal
disease, and in the preliminary report the committee
admits that “enormous power for evil should be
attributed to” this and alcoholism. Such reports
as the Committee has issued up to now have been
brief surveys based on the statistics of a couple of
States, accompanied by sundry academic statements
of measures which should be taken by some person
or persons or authority not clearly indicated. A
really useful piece of work would be for the Com-
mittee to undertake an inquiry into venereal disease
in Australia on at least as detailed and thorough
lines as have been followed by the Royal Commission
in England. Sterility of women, disabling of chil-
dren, and impairment of adult efficiency are rela-
tively of greater national importance in Australia
than they are in England, and the opportunity exists
to probe the whole question thoroughly. It cannot
be done by a few hours of discussion round a table,
or a two-page report of statistical summaries and
academic suggestions. The true position and im-
portance of venereal diseases in Australia requires
to be known, and there is no means of ascertaining
it with reasonable accuracy other than that of close
and detailed investigation into all phases of the
subject by a small body of competent inquirers
possessing the requisite knowledge and legal powers,
The investigators are already available, and if the
Committee’s powers do not extend to the calling
of witnesses and the prosecution of detailed inquiry
throughout Australia, they can be readily enough
widened.
“NO SURPRISES.”
According to Winston Churchill the
great feature of the recent sea battle was
that the Germans had no surprises concealed
about their ships. Their naval construction
had been on the old lines; their naval gunnery
was similar and inferior to that of the British.
For this reason their enterprise was an
entirely mad one. The only way in which
a fleet inferior in weight and numbers can
hope to beat a superior one is by surprise.
When, in the days of Nelson, small British
fleets met bigger ones of France and Spain,
the surprise lay mostly in the Nelson touch
which compelled ships trained on a theory
of long-distance fighting to engage at pistol
range, or even closer. True, in the latex-
battles, like Trafalgar, this had largely
ceased to be a surprise; but by that time
the prestige of the British sea-wizard had
so grown that enemy gunners felt like walk-
ing overboard at the mere sight of his flag.
The Germans’ land surprises during the
present war account for the fact that they
are still holding Belgium and an uncomfort-
able corner of France on the one side and
Poland on the other; but at sea they had
nothing new to show, and were whipped
back to the ditch at Kiel.
* * * *
If we could get this idea of surprise values
firmly into our minds, the future of Austra-
lian defence would look more hopeful. The
only surprise we have had to offer as our
contribution to this war has been the fighting
quality of our men; but far more than that
may be needed for the successful holding of
a thinly-peopled continent. It may be true that
no great danger is imminent, though if half
a dozen battle cruisers had slipped past
Beatty in the fog their guns might have
been battering us before the winter was
over; but it is equally true that a win-
ning surprise takes a long time to develop to
the limit of its possibilities. British gunners
take 12 years to train. If an Australian now
produced an idea of supreme value for the
defence of this country, it may be reasonably
calculated that if we went earnestly ahead,
losing no time and making the utmost of the
advantage it gave us, we should be ready to
put it to the test somewhere about 1928. _ And
the optimist who assures us that nothing on
earth can rise to plunge Australia into a
state of war by 1928, ought to be firmly
but gently put in a place where his rosy-
tinted ravings don’t matter. . Two years
befoi’e the outbreak of hostilities well-
informed people were assuring us that there
never could be war with Germany; two
weeks before the guns started to bellow a
majority of the ill-informed were still of the
same opinion. Had they been less trustful
this horror might have been averted. At
any rate, however calm the skies look at the
moment, there is no safety for a country save
in serious preparation and in making full
use of all its best brains.
* * * *
The surprise possible to Australia must lie
as much in method as in matter.
could be plainer than that the methods ol
defence now employed by British troops in
France and Flanders would be utterly useless
for the defence of a great continent by small
armies. Britain has been compelled to alter
her own methods greatly to suit the present
needs; but, as Kitchener tried to make us
see, the British army methods, even enlarged,
and sub edited as they have been, could no
serve our purpose. As far as we can Judge,
Britain has 1.500,000 men on a front of 90
miles; Australia in her day of trial may
have 300,000 men on a front of a thousand
miles. In other words, while Britain base
her operations on the employment of about
16,000 men to the mile, we may
make our defence with only 300 men to t
mile. Between the two there is as wide a
difference as between the plans of Welling-
ton at Waterloo and De TV et at the close <
the South African turmoil. Our surprise of
method, if we are to possess the artic e,
must be of such a nature that one man can
do the work of several hundreds through
mobility and resource. Now that the Oom
monwealth authorities have set the machine
of home defence and citizen training working
again, let us therefore above all things h
the Kitchener warning and remember •
our military establishment has more to learn
from Botha and Smuts than from Joffre
and llaig, not because they greater
generals, but because they understand the
continent-wide game as it must be p • •
Australia. In any case, the P a * -
stands that war is not an occupation like
bricklaying or rock-chopping; and if in the
day when an enemy lands he reports n
surprises,” we can consider ourselves down
and out in the first round.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Tall Man Who Did Things,
People had been writing about Kitchener
for 20 years, and most of what they wrote
was cheap fudge. But it was the stuff the
public wanted in an uncritical, somnolent
age, and if the result was a caricature-
well, what odds, so long as the public in-
sisted upon having such a figure on the pre-
mises? And then both Kitchener and the
British public paid the penalty: the man
because in the popular mind he had been
elevated to the position of a military
necromancer; the public because of a fatal
blindness to its obligations and perils. In
France a Kitchener would have looked a
national danger. In Britain, where the mili-
tary influence is wholly different, he seemed
the embodiment of what Britain most needed.
And in a measure he really was, for the man
had one great, commanding quality—he was
a magnificent straining post, and in the hour
when the fences had to be put up in a hurry,
w’hen agitated politicians were running about
wringing their hands and the nation awoke
with a start to the first dim realisation of its
nakedness, he played his part with dignity,
courage and strength. He talked but little.
H'e stuck to his job. And when he died he
had finished it. His place as a soldier
matters little. His great merit was that he
was an organiser, and had the temperament
and personality for organisation. It may be
found, when the air clears, that he made
many mistakes, some of them serious. It
would be a surprising thing if he did not.
The improvisation of armies of millions is
an undertaking in which mistakes can
reasonably be expected. Besides, he
had to deal with muddle of unex-
ampled magnitude—to grapple with a
crisis to which British statesmanship
had closed its eyes right up to the last, and
which, being not a man of large vision, he
had probably not foreseen himself. If he
did foresee it he, at any rate, failed signally
to prepare Britain to face it. But in the
welter that followed he stood four square;
not an inspiring figure, but certainly a
strong one.
+
The Long Arm of Responsibility.
The destruction of the warship that
carried Kitchener lays the Asquith
Government open to the same criticism that
boiled a while after the sinking of the Lusi-
tania and then grew cold. There can be
no reasonable doubt that the Hampshire fell
a victim to the German secret service, even
as the Lusitania did, the difference between
the two cases being that many people in
sundry places knew of the Lusitania
scheme a week before it was carried to a
successful issue, whereas the secret of the
forthcoming attempt on the Hampshire was
confined to the inner circle of Hun intrigue.
An order gazetted by the British Home
Secretary as soon as the tragedy became
known was practically an admission by the
Government of its belated suspicions. It
ordered that persons wishing to proceed to
the Orkneys must obtain the permission of
the military authority at Kirkwall, the
capital of the islands. A number of ships
had previously been torpedoed in those
waters, yet the Government had failed to
take this simple precaution against the
danger of German spies carrying informa-
tion to and fro. The same want of vigilance
as regards the coast of disaffected Ireland
had made the Lusitania tragedy a com-
paratively simple job. The enemy alien and
doubtful alien danger has been handled with
kid gloves ever since the war began. Even
tragic circumstances like the Lusitania
horror and the most disastrous of the Aep-
pelin raids on London compelled the Govern-
ment merely to gusts of mild action —so
mild that it was not until a fortnight ago
that the authorities ordered the dismissal
of all German captains from the British
mercantile marine. As for the question
whether up-to-date German submarines are
being adequately combated, that is a ques-
tion for seamen only. What everybody
knows is that German designs against cargo
and passenger ships are accomplished in
most cases by means of secret-service infor-
mation. It isn’t by chance that a Hun
submarine gets the opportunity to torpedo
a Lusitania or a big cargo vessel whose
departure from port has been signalled, and
whose whereabouts at a given time can be
calculated. The submarine peril is in a
large measure a secret-service peril, and
were there no German spies at any British
or “neutral” port the Huns would rarely’
effect an accidental coup. Therefore the
bell-toppered brokers of London Stock
Exchange were justified shiiekmg
“Spies!” when the news of Kitchener’s
destruction came to hand. _ Against Ibis
widespread treachery there is no sort or
safeguard save widespread suspicion and
stern precautionary measures.
♦
Which is to go—Labor or the P.L.L.?
The executive of the N. S. Wales P.L.L. has
hurled a sudden and evil-looking bomb into
the midst of the recently-whipped and
severely-chastened Parliamentarians who
are supposed to do its bidding : it intimates
its refusal to endorse any Labor candidate
who declares his belief that military service
is a public duty to be done by all. If the
attitude is persisted in, the next move must
be made by N. S. Wales, which must turn
down the P.L.L. executive as a poor
narrow-visioned, undemocratic thing. Most
of the members of the State’s Legislature,
whatever tlieir other faults, are sound on
thi« principle of universal service; and it
an irresponsible, unrepresentative minority
insists on being a law and conscience to
them, there is nothing more certain than
that the most upright of the members will
be driven out of the party, which will then
almost certainly suffer an overwhelming
defeat at the polls. If, on the other hand,
the politicians take a firm stand, brush the
vaporings of the P.L.L. executive on one
side, laugh at its refusal to endorse their
candidature and appeal to the voting public
against such preposterous tyranny, the
P l L. will either retrace its foolish steps
or be snuffed out as completely as an
unpleasant foreign match on a windy day.
In a word, the P.L.L., if it insists on its
mad and foaming career of destruction, will
raise the issue whether Labor as a party
shall cease or whether the machine which
professes to control Labor shall be kicked
aside. If Holman and his Parlia-
mentary following will deal firmly with
the alleged crisis which has arisen, it need
not occasion them an hour’s loss of repose.
If they don’t they will certainly have the
pick of Australia to deal with when the war
is over, even if they manage to escape the
wrath of the heavily-drained constituencies
now.
The Muddled Business of War “Honors.”
The position with regard.to medals, ribbons,
badges and war decorations in general is
wholly unsatisfactory. In Australia a
Returned Soldiers’ Association has . been
formed, and, off-shooting from it a Rejected
Volunteers’ Association. One may. also see
youths wearing colored ribbons inscribed
“Anzacs, 1915.” They may have taken part
in the operations on the Peninsula; it is
possible, alternatively, that they are impost-
ors, who never saw Gallipoli, but ornament
themselves with the object of acquiring free
refreshment and cheap glory. And now
the Defence Department is issuing four dif-
ferent badges—to home service men, to re-
jected volunteers, to munition workers and
to returned soldiers. At any of the numer-
ous Fronts one may meet, thousands of men
who have risked their lives almost daily,
and w T ho are wearing nothing to show it. for
the sound reason amongst others that if
they attempted to do so they would be
severely punished. As against this it is
common to see soldiers who have not heard
a shell burst in the past two years wearing
recently-conferred ribbons of all the mili-
tary orders except the V.C. It is a ludicrous
fact that it is far easier to win a “comba-
tive” medal such as the D.S.O. or the Mili-
tary Cross in a base office than in a front-
line trench. For facing unimaginable dan-
gers and hardships on Gallipoli, month after
month, certain Australian officers were
given C.M.G.’s —the'decoration that has been
regarded hitherto as a trivial gaud to be
flung to the civil servant who has done
fairly well in an inferior job. Dozens of
men on base work or “cushy jobs” have
earned D.S.O.’s in the present war. A few
weeks ago, in Egypt, a well-known English
aviator flew from the Canal to the Turkish
railhead, bombed the ammunition depot
there, was brought so close to the ground by
the subsequent explosion that the enemy
ceased firing at him, and got back after a
flight of nearly 250 miles, with his machine
looking like a colander. He was rewarded
with the mere Military Cross, which is of
much less consequence than the D.S.O. And
he was surprised to get even that much. The
genuine fighting man feels that way because
he sees so many acts of wild heroism going
unnoticed. Eet it be granted that eveiy
man who fights bravely under appalling con-
ditions cannot be given one of the great
orders; and let it be further granted that
certain soldiers may fairly earn these orders
by the performance of cvivilian work. There
still remains the fact that to the man who
takes the big risk, something more is due
than so many shillings per diem and the men-
tion of his name in tbe newspapers when
he stops the inevitable projectile. The Brit-
ish Government announced recently that
“the time had not arrived” for the issue of
war medals. It has. Life is short in the
best of circumstances. In the battle-lme u
is a matter of weeks, not to say days. It
there is any merit at all in war-medals, it
is reasonable, obviously, to give them while
war is in progress, as is already done in
the case of war-orders. Under the present
arrangement Australia is threatened with a
garish rash of mostly home-staying citizens
displaying masses of shining ironmongery
on their peaceful bosoms, while the chests
of our expeditionaries seem fated indefi-
nitely to bear nothing more conspicuous
than identification discs.
Things that Must Go with Protection.
“0.K.”: Australia wants something more
than an improved Protective tariff to cure
the people of their weakness for foreign
goods. It wants its manufacturers and
workers to be worthy of Protection in the
last degree, which is the prohibition of all
foreign rivals. To be thus worthy they must
at least produce the equal of the foreign
article, after getting a fair chance to do so.
My complaint is that in some lines the some-
what-protected manufacturers have been con-
tent for 25 years to supply a large public
demand without seriously endeavoring to
improve the quality of their product. Lake,
for instance, the popular lager beer. 1 uder
Protection an imitation of light German
lager was brewed in Australia in Mel-
bourne, firstly—and was drunk with enthu-
siasm by people who appreciated its mildness
in comparison with ordinary “colonial beer.
Has it improved in the desired quality ot mild-
ness? ! —on the contrary, it is more like
“colonial” beer and less like German lager
to-day than it was a quarter of a century
ago. Meanwhile the imported article grew
lighter and less alcoholic than of yore.
Beck’s lager, now vetoed for enemy
reasons, appealed to what may be called the
restaurant public. Doctors recommended i-
for convalescents who craved for beer. There
was a growing demand for a local substitute
for Beck’s ; but the local brewers didn’t
attempt to supply it. Consequently other
brands of imported lager, from neutral
countries, have been rushed upon the market.
Local manufacturers are to blame. The
brewers were not game to invest a small
portion of their profits in experimental brew-
ing of the lighter beer which has hitherto
been imported. Plucky- experimenting is
essential to progress in production. Another
handicap to local industry is the foolish
obstinacy of enthusiastic Protectionists in
denying simple facts concerning young and
crude manufactures. Take, for instance, the
local lucifer matches. There was a howl of
indignation from Protectionists two or three
years ago when a Melbourne match factory
closed down owing to what was called the
consumers’ disloyal preference for cheaper
imported matches. As a matter of fact, the
locally-made article was then very defective.
The head of the absurdly-thiek match was
apt to break off when struck on the box, or
the unseasoned bodv broke in two. The pub-
lic knew from experience that the goods were
no good, whilst angry politicians swore that
the matches, being Australian, were naturally
the best in the world. Their talk was a
waste of hot air. The public continued to
buy imported matches, and the local Bryant
and May factory continued to improve on its
first output. To-day the B. and M. match is
preferable to what is imported from the low-
wage factories of Sweden and Japan. I speak
honestly as a consumer, not as a staunch
Protectionist who would tell any darned lie
to serve the cause. The importation of
foreign matches should be stopped by a
thumping tariff now that the local product is
quite “up to Dick.” At present it is handi-
capped by its former ill-reputation (which
the grocery stores endeavor to keep burning)
rather than by the fact that it costs id.
more for a dozen boxes than its imported
rivals. Nobody tells the public that the old.
genuine objections to the B. and M. match
have disappeared. Certainly the grocer
doesn’t. Probably he makes an extra farth-
ing a gross profit on the foreign stuff; hence
his negatively stinking-fish policy. And the
public is indisposed to assume that the local
manufacture of matches has improved. Why?
Because the ardent apostles of Protection
have always tried to bluff them into the
belief that anything and everything made in
Australia could not be improved upon. Pro-
tectionists have protested too much. They
have helped to aggravate the very prejudices
they protested against.
♦
Nibbling at the Parks.
The tremendous desire which people in pub-
lic positions evince for cutting little bits off
the public parks in our towns and cities must
have some sort of psychological basis. An
ordinary citizen ne'-er has the least desire to
grab a park, unless in rare instances as a
plain personal steal; but the official mind
somehow recoils from open spaces, and if. it
doesn’t actually want to cover them with
bricks, it is constantly evolt ing schemes by
which they can be whittled away and turned
into something other than they are. The
recent demands in and about Sydney for
pieces of existins? parks to convert into school
playgrounds look most innocent; but they
are not entirely the mild, pellucid things they
seem. As the parks stand they are every-
body’s playgrounds, the extent and scope of
the play being regulated merely by the
authority of a stray gardener here and there
who cultivates a plot or two of flowers. To
fence off portions for the exclusive use of
certain groups is to limit the hunting ground
of the people in general. Especially has the
child in general a right to consideration
before the child in particular; and, more-
over, once alienated for whatever purpose,
land near cities or within their bounds lias
an unhappy knack of calling for bricks and
mortar. The Australian child is a person
of supreme importance—the more so on
account of the heavy war wastage. He
deserves the fullest consideration he can get;
and there is no building in all Australia that
can compare in public value with the ground
on which the child plays and breathes fresh
Australian air under a good Australian sun.
If special school playgrounds are needed arid
no open land can be obtained, there should be
no difficulty at all about tearing down a few
terraces of ill-ventilated, unhealthy houses
to give room. To snip pieces off the park*
is merely robbing Tom to confer some imag-
inary benefit on Thomas. If land is really
wanted for the children in connection with
the schools, let them have it at any cost ex-
cept at the expense of the children them-
selves. These people who want to cut up
parks on any excuse need watching. It is
one of the cardinal public sins and one of
the best tests of a public person’s attitude
of mind towards his fellow citizens. The
man who would filch away a park would sell
his country for about tuppence and say he
was doing it for patriotic reasons.
“D.”: The Defence Department’s method of
handing out promotions has never been very
popular, but of late the system has become
worse, to the probable prejudice of recruiting.
At the start, commissions were mostly given
to those belonging to “good families,” quite
irrespective of ability and experience. And
when Btlljim wrote home of muddles and
mistakes at Egypt and Gallipoli the enthusi-
asm about taking risks under such eminent
leaders wasn’t boundless. The other day in
Westralia there was a fine chance to secure
junior officers who had seen service. Of the
Youth Militant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In all the wars the lords of evil wage
Youth fights for Age.
Youth is the sword and striking arm of
Power.
In the dark hour
With a clean heart for guerdon, unafraid
It bears the brunt of wrongs it never made,
Paying the blood-debt left to it for dower;
And though the dragon’s teeth in spears arise
It faces death with laughter in its eyes.
And safe at home behind its bastioned gates
Age sits and waits,
Knowing full well the wings that hide the
sun
Are evils done;
The world that swarms with myriad hates
to-day
It fashioned falsely from the moistened clay,
And Youth alone can see redemption won.
What shall requite it now its blood is cold.
A hive of honey, or a hoard of gold i
We are the youth that girds its armor on,
Childhood has gone!
For all the evil seeds the past has sown
We must atone ;
Shedding our dreams of ease and comfort, we
Fare forth undaunted on a perilous sea
To carve with steel the new world’s corner-
stone.
But though false hearts may prove the con-
flict vain
We fight that men shall never fight again.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.


A
if
1
TiiiiTii*
!
i"
niiiiiiii
SJjjjiimiii!
feW^l
stl
e M
*
r\>
Three Points of
Goodyear Superiority.
SOME MOTORISTS buying their
first "Anti-skid-’ tyres seem to think
■that a tyre with any kind of projec-
tion on the tread will answer.
If the projection is at all rounded it will
sbp—what the motorist must have in a real
anti-skid tyre is a sharp edge projection to
grip slippery pavements and muddy roads.
There is a scientific reason for using the
shape, patented, and now used exclusively on
the Goodyear “All-Weather Treads,” whose
blocks of contact are lined up exactly to
front and rear, giving the long, sharp, angular
edge, faced to the direction of skidding.
Here is the first great advantage possessed by
Goodyears alone in the world of tyredom.
COMPARE THE WEARING area of
Goodyear All-Weather Treads not
witli ANY OTHER, but with ALL
OTHER patterns of anti-skids.
Tou will he impressed with the fact that
“Goodyears” have by far the greatest amount
of wearing, surface, without detracting in the
least from their hull-dog grip on everv road.
The blocks on Goodyears keep their shape
under the hardest of usage for thousands of
miles—they never all wear off. Here is
another point of vantage in the permanency
of the anti-skid action of Goodyear All-
Weather Tread Tyres.
THE CONSTRUCTION of a tyre
may be ever so perfect in design, but
if it falls down in quality of com-
ponent parts it is no better—in fact,
not as good as its competitors.
Here is where Goodyear Tyres score highest
in the test of actual usage. The material
throughout is of the hie-hest quality obtain-
able.
The quality of Goodyear Tyres has, above
all, been responsible for the volume of sales
that have necessitated a factory alone employ-
ing over 9000 men to-day, where in 1901 it
employed but 225. Nothing but quality,
value for monev and satisfied users could
have attained this result.
* ft
ImS
The Chinese Pirates sell Nancy (Marie
Doro ) for a Geisha to Musso of the tea
house.
An incident in “The White Pearl,” P ro '
duced by The Famous Players Film Com-
pany.
•swarm of lltli Battalion men returned in-
valided some hundred or more have been
pronounced in perfect health and ready to
return to action. Yet when these entered the
non-coms, schools they were mostly turned
down in favor of raw recruits who have
never even handled a rifle. Dozens
of young men who have been ser-
geants in the cadets, then privates in the
Citizen Forces, and privates under lire at
the Front have been put on the ice. Many
of them are of superior education, and have
coirfinendatory letters from officers under
whom they fought. Yet they will have to go
off once more under Johnny .Raws. At a
recent W.A. exam, only three out of a large
number of Anzac men were thought fit to be
X.C.O.’s. At a still more recent test some-
thing worse is said to have happened. The
matter is kept profoundly «uiet, but when it
bursts out the noise will be deafening.
—— —«• —-
The Sudden Arrival of a Bear.
There was a loud, growling noise in front
of the Austrians at Galicia last week, and
when the smoke of a furious bombardment
cleared away they discovered that the Bear
had rubbed the snow out of his eyes and was
leaping forward with a bayonet. Where-
upon they started to go astern, and there
was great slaughter, with captures of Aus-
trian soldiery and the issue at Petrograd of
communiques announcing victory. The
yarn as it stood a couple of days ago was
that the Bear had bitten three great lumps
out of the Austrian line running from Cer-
nowitz northward to the Pripet marshes and
was busily engaged pushing himself through
the holes. If it is all true, then the Aus-
trian is in a bad way; and as the Russian
appears to have several mountains of ammu-
nition handy, hope that he is asserting an
emphatic mastery and tangling the Huns up
in a serious complication arrives at a
moment when the commodity is in great
demand. While all this was going on the
German continued to batter away at Verdun
(where, in spite of his reported gigantic
losses and frequent annihilation, he seems to
be gradually getting into the French posi-
tion!, and a stray line or two in the cable
messages made reference to a recent hot time
in Flanders, where, according to the London
Times, the enemy “has been made pay
heavily for his successes,” and “the bloodiest
battle fought since Loos” has taken place.
The meaning of these phrases is concealed
behind a vast silence. The presence of our
own lads in the western trenches would
seem to ignora ut parents and sweethearts and
wives to be a reason why Australia should
hear something of what is happening there-
abouts; but, glory be! Hughes paid them a
visit the other day and made some speeches
and had afternoon tea with someone, and
we had several thousand blithering words
about that! These frequent hunks of infor-
mation about Hughes valiantly working his
jaws, strolling by rivers, eating and gener-
ally toiling like a beaver, are a fearsome
illustration of the horrors of modern
warfare. The Australian citizeness who
grabs her morning paper to find out
if her husband is fighting and can
only find that Hughes is talking about
someone’s imperishable glory, ought to
be ashamed of herself if she cannot recog-
nise how important it is for military reasons
to keep the newspapers, flooded with stuff
that doesn’t matter. Meanwhile, if there is
much about Hughes and nothing about the
Anzacs, and still less that is of any value
concerning Salonika and other points, there
is at least the definite news from Italy that
in consequence of the recent defeats in the
Trentino the Salandra Government has
been passed out. It was-about time. Italy’s
military activity had for a long while been
the subject of queer comment in neutral
countries.
There have been four hotly-contested by-
elections in the Ma State since the war
and other things started, and the Holman
Government has lost the lot —Willoughby,
l’arramatta, Drummoyne and Bingara. Biu-
gara had been invaded by the Ministry en
masse to resist the re-election of McDonald,
who sat in the Assembly as a Labor man.
but in the midst of the disturbance between
Holman and the P.L.L. a few weeks ago
came to the conclusion that the time was
ripe to sit as something else. So he re-
signed "as a protest against interference
with members of the Legislature by Labor
organisations,” and, opposed by McClelland
(Labor), ran as an Independent. The
vote was counted on Saturday, and Holman
heard the banshee wailing long before the
job was finished. McDonald* who won at
the general election by 205 votes, was 600
or so ahead this time. Whereupon Holman
put another piece of steak on his eye and
said McClelland was “greatly handicapped.”
lie kas, indeed.
“Greece is pandering to all parties,” says
a Melbourne paper. “Her subservience is
sickening.” Greece, in short, is more oily
than righteous.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Gipsy Love’’
Criterion “It Pays to Advertise”
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli ... Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum * Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Wirths’ New Hippodrome “Kultur”
Town Hall Mirovitch-Piastre Concerts
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty"
Royal “On Trial”
King’s .. “Duncan McClure" and “The Poor Parson”
Princess’s “11 Trovatore”
The Playhouse “Quinneys”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciaritjm Ice Skating
If Julius Knight had started his Sydney
1 loyal season with “The Silver King” a week
earlier, he might have claimed a glorious
share in the six o’clock victory that will .put
the Demon Drink in its cage before the
thirsty theatre patron even goes home to
dress. Whether a prudent actor would
care to be associated with a reform that is
going to fill the intervals with gloom is
another matter. The fine old anti-booze ser-
mon with the happy ending is well poured
out by the present co., and a war-sobered
public receives it gratefully as a sort of
moral tonic. Julius himself, in a smaller and
less flamboyant hat than the returning kings
of olden time were wont to wear, lands the*
flapping fish of applause with the old, old
lines, and is as unlike a reciter as possible
when rolling out Denver’s Dream. Likette
Parkes makes a very youthful and appealing
Nellie Denver, whose complexion is not im-
paired by poverty, and Boyd Irwin is a glit-
tersome Spider. Old friend J. B. Atholwood
is admirable as Jaikes, and Harry Sweeney
will be a satisfactory Geoffrey Ware when lie
learns to arrive early and die after the shot
is fired. Emma Temple gets a brief look-in
and a welcome late in the evening; she is the
insinuating old she-yokel who wants to marry
Atholwood. "The Lion and the Mouse” is
billed for revival on Saturday.
Derek Hudson gets his big chance again in
“Gipsy Love,” which melodious foreign pro-
duct is being run off by the re vis d
Royal Comics at Her Majesty’s, Sid-
ney. The poor, thin “book” is beauti-
fully wrapped up in Leliar’s music,
and the Gipsy with the hair over his
eyes is so gallant and takes his lovemaking
so seriously that the feeble flapping and gag-
ging of the comedians is hardly noticed.
Leslie Holland is Dragotin, the burlesque
Roumanian noble; Florence Young bobs up
again as a mature Lady Babhy, though old
admirers insist on continuing to he gallantly
surprised by her youthfulness: Minnie Love
is kittenish as .Tolan ; and Ethel Cadman is
a low-powered Ilona. Addie LenUard looks
and struggles well as a proud, non-working
gipsy girl, and John Ralston’s melodious inn-
keeping is like a drink of heavy port. The
unctuous Phil Smith repeats his miniature
Roumanian Simple Simon; and altogether
the writer would feel more cheerful about the
Allies’ chances in the Balkans if people like
that inhabited Bulgaria or some other hos-
tile State.
“GIPSY LOVE,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Derek Hudsoit. the gi psy heart-breaker.
Coming late in Allan Wilkie’s Shak-
fpearian season at Sydney Adelphi.
“Othello,” produced on Saturday, finishes up
to-morrow (Friday) night. Which is a
pity; it deserves a longer hearing. In this
tragedy the supports show to better advan-
tage than in most other efforts, partly, no
doubt, because of the wider experience of
most of them in melodrama. The lago
of Walter Hunt was a notable in-
stance; lie was an excellent villain.
The vivid recollection of the “Othello”
of Oscar Asche naturally overshadows
Allan Wilkie’s Moor; yet it is a
creditable characterisation, a little over-
strained in places, but always at least hang-
ing together. The Cassio of Robert
Faulkiner was most effective after the appli-
cation of a dozen pewters or so, though he
wearied somewhat of being tipsy when the
Royal Commission began to take evidence.
Frediswyde Hunter-Watts was a pleasing
Desdemona in figure and speech. With the
advantage that she was not called Upon
to wail at any length. The Roderigo of
Walter Champney was a comedy touch that
strayed out of bounds. Elwyn Harvey
(Bianca) and Valentine Sydney (Mrs.
Tago) earned certificates in Class II.; and
John Cosgrove (portly Governor of Cyprus)
and Fred Kelioe (Brabantio > did their little
well. On Saturday “Romeo and Juliet” will
be staged ; then, after four nights of that, a
two nights’ resurrection of “Hamlet” will
close the season.
“GLI'SY LOVE," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Dragotin (Leslie Holland) prepares
Kajetan ( Phil Smith) for an argument with
a wild gipsy.
The Royal Commission appointed to
investigate thfe matter is still discovering
sensational evidence of the disgraceful, but
amusing, advertising methods by which the
American Soap Trust pushes its goods upon
the credulous public. At the Sydney Cri-
terion, where the Commission is continu-
ously sitting, the attendance of the public
is large, and the character of the evidence is
frequently productive of “laughter in the
Court,” which the ushers are quite unable
to suppress.
“Peg o’ My Heart” is-still making money
for the Taits at Sydney Palace; but dog
Michael looks as insolvent as ever.
Rose Berry, a girl burlesque artist with
some new tricks, came to Sydney Tivoli last
week-end. Ley wood and Novell, a mixed
team in the same line of business, also
arrived ; and some feet higher up Loose and
Sterling showed off their muscles on
the Roman rings. After that group came
the same old Tivoli Pollies, with the official
ad.-minstrel singing the praises of everybody
from Vera Pearce to the scenesliifter in four
keys at once.
The only difference between the arrival of
Kultur in Belgium and its appearance at
W irths’ Hippodrome in Sydney is that the
real article was preceded by artillery fire at
Liege while the Wirth Brothers provide
music and song and exhibitions by clever
people on bicycles and a slack-wire 'to start
with. But this doesn’t prevent Kultur being
presented as the unspeakable animal it really
is, and when the Hun gets swept away iii
20.000 gallons of water the only possible
objection to be raised is that the whole
Pacific Ocean should be staged and dropped
with three cheers where it would do most
damage.
W ith the silent mummer in Svdnev this
week :—•
Lyceum: “The Green Swamp,” a Triangle film of
jealousies and other domestic disturbances; “Daphne
and the Pirate,” a romance of the Spanish Main;
and He Did and He Didn’t,” a good Sinnett comedy.
Crystal Palace: “The Moral Fabric,” in which
(he villain practises Christian science on the
mar) iage-tic; and an interesting film m„ .
uses of the parachute in war-time tvatn, 8 the
Empress : “The Circus 0 f Death ” a sevi
raising thrills on a 300 ft. smoke-stack I, 0 '
orang-outang juggles with an heir-annV,’ ' e,v ar >
pursued by the pride of a circus. PP t an(l is
i-VRic: “Sins of the Mothers,” a stirri
tragedy, ’ a st,ln "? gambling
The night when the Melbourne
tory Co. came into its o i 6 a{e P @r *
was a pink one in the career of p heatre
McMahon The Playhouse, adapted
the .Snowden picture theatre has
broad stage and plenty of comfortable S
ing accommodation, and will give the lb
ary- and non-American drama a better ri 1 '
to flourish Horn it I,as had
Repertory conditions! Saturday’s „r " 3
was practically a house-warming
aid of the 1 rench Red Cross?
essentially uncharitable comedy () f \ ,
ain Superman” was revived for the
night only, the co. being pretty much
same that once undertook the same job
the Princess’s. Since that matiiiee Julh
Knight has staged “Man and Sul
man, and Irene Brdwhe has
tan and stately interpretation of the sort
of Ann from whose thinly-disguised alluiv-
ments no defiant yOung guardian would ho
1 kely to escape. Miss Isabel llandlev Z
the Ann of the Repertory Co., carries insuf-
ficient fieshliness and sinuosity for tlm
part and her appearance in abbreviated
skirts reminds one that frocks were cut
longer when the character was created
Ann’s particular brand of deceitfulness seems
out of fashion in a very modern rig. All the
same Miss Handley acts the part pleasingly
Miss Mardi Dellors, with less stage experi-
ence, makes a rather admirable Violet But
on the feminine side of the cast the only
finished performer is Mrs. Fowler. She is
Ann’s fond mother, who reckons that the
mendacious maiden’s marriage with Tanner
will serve her right. The men are a capable
well-selected crowd of speakers and listeners!
Mac himself is a quite convincing exponent
of flic eternal tonguester Tanner. Although
he sometimes got stuck for a line on Satur-
day, he mostly rattled of! his long mono-
logues as though they were his own inven-
tions. lie has softened his treatment of
the part since he first played it, and is now
almost amiably apologetic every time he dis-
covers that he has been elocuting under an
absurd misapprehension. But it is the
actor, not the character, that improves on
acquaintance. Tanner’s philosophy doesn't
stand the test. It is only as full of wis ;
(lorn as ail egg is full of yolk. If you boil
G. I’>. Shaw’s philosophy on your mental fire
when it is fresh, the yolk hardens and dim-
inishes the, longer yoh boil it. And if you
don’t bdil the egg at all it soon gets addled.
* * * *
Three nights this week Miss Hilda Free-
man lectures at the Playhouse about The
Blood Lust in Germany. Saturday, 24th,
the Repertory Co. will make a commercial
start in “Quinney’s,” on which occasion
Melba will mark her goodwill to the strag-
gling cause by appearing in the fourth act
of Verdi’s “Otello.”
The war is about to do something for
music-lovers in Australia, as a set-off to
all the musical schemes it has blighted. The
Gonsalez Opera Co., which Marlow has
been game to take up, was not originally
formed for tonring purposes, as the Quinlan
Co. was. Lorenzo Gonsalez and his brother
had been running grand opera in Italy for
years before the war broke out. When
that disaster happened the firm found
a difficulty in getting theatres, so
Lorenzo took liis crowd to India; and
it was a Calcutta connoisseur who
advised - George Marlow that here was
a first-class organisation, judged by the
Quinlan standard. Gonsalez was then in
Sydney, having come along to see
whether Australia could be worked, and
Marlow resolved to risk it. There are a
dozen principal vocalists and a chorus of
40-odd in the co. A couple of Gonsalez
signors share the conducting of the orches-
tra : this has a backbone of 10 members
from Italy, and another 20 or so players are
being engaged in Melbourne —a more trouble-
some job, it seems, than the augmenting ot
the chorus. Lorenzo Gonsalez is delighted
with the Melbourne recruits for the chorus.
But. then, no foreign musical man was ever
otherwise than pleased with the local sing-
ing talent. The extra choristers have cap-
ital voices, plus the quick intelligence
necessary to carry them through a rapid-
change repertoire. Twenty operas or more
are in the bag—all of them old and tuneful
works, hut in some cases (such as “Favor-
ita,” “Un Ballo,” “Huguenots”) not fami-
liar to the younger generation. The
season will begin with “Trovatore’
“Traviata” and the “Gavalleria” and “Fag-
liacei” double to follow. For the season
Marlow has fixed a maximum of 6s. and a
minimum of 2s. on the prices, and he ex-
pects the co. to be hailed as mighty hue
value for the money.


H E N K E S’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonio.
Awarded many gold medals for purity.
HAUNTING MUSICAL SUCCESS !
“THE PERFECT SON<S”
CBein- the Love Strain from the incidental music of the successful film
1 ° production, “The Birth of a Nation. )
BY JOSEPH CARL BREIL.
Piano Solo (Continental Fingering) 2/- net
Vocal Arrangement in D (B-E) & E>> ~ / - oet
CHAPPELL & CO. LTD., 235 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
BE HAP of ALL tyUSK-SELLERS
ECONOMIC TAILORING
PRODUCED BY PEAP E S' OF SYDNEY
If you are to-day interested in the vital matter of Economy —if, for
moderate outlay you would like to get something more than moderate
quality and style, send to us for our Economic Tailoring Patterns.
Because of early contracts made with leading mills, and because
of labor-saving methods in our workrooms, we can to-day keep prices
for distinctive tailoring within the expenditure usually made for
clothes by the average man.
£3 ss. to lOs. We Pay Pontage.
Patterns, self-measurement form and Jubilee Catalogue on request.
PEAPES (& CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“So Long, Letty,” will shake its manifold
legs at Dull Care for another week or two,
and then “The Girl on the Film” will be
revived at Melbourne Majesty’s.
“On Trial,” at Melbourne Royal, will con-
tinue to unfold its old familiar sort of tale
in an unfamiliar way seven times a week.
Little Dorothy Seacombe and her exceedingly
hasty Daddy (Frank Harvey) seem to be
the principal objects of sympathy in this
distressful trial for murder. Madge Fabian
gets very little consideration, especially
from the women in the audience. Her
attempts to dispel her husband’s sus-
picions are too obviously doomed to
failure. file’s the least artful libber that
ever was in domestic life. Her awful
inability to juggle with a guilty secret is a
reflection on the sex, and the verdict of the
female jury is that her carelessness in losing
her virtue and her velvet handbag was only
exceeded by her folly in losing her head.
At Melbourne King’s “Just a Girl” is
still paying a huge sum for a footing in the
English peerage. According to the late W.
S. Gilbert, dukes used to be about two a
penny; but the fact that Esmeralda is
charged £1,000,000 for an impecunious speci-
men with accumulated mortgages seems to
imply that some monopolist has cornered
the market. England ought to look into it.
But this Girl can’t wait: she has to leave
to-morrow night. Saturday’s entertainment
will be a new comedy-drama combining the
main incidents in Steele Rudd’s “Poor Par-
son” and “Duncan McClure.’”
Next to Cardo and Noll, the sugary song-
sters, the best turn at Melbourne Tivoli just
now is the three Kundies —one large man
and two slim boys —on the tight wire. Burt
Shepherd is an expert in the unlovely art
of stockwhipry, and Jack Bornhold’s novel
manner of dealing with a burlesque melo-
drama on a film screen would be very enter-
taining if his voice and diction were not as
hard and monotonous as a garden roller.
Horace Goldin’s new illusions are less
honored in the observance than in the advt.,
one of them being the venerable “vivisec-
tion” trick which the clown and pantaloon
used to perpetrate upon a dummy harlequin
in the happy days ere The Bulletin was
born.
At Melbourne Bijou Wish Wynne con-
tinues to kodak the mannerisms of English
female types without broadening her impres-
sions by caricature. Her picture of the
whimpering eldest girl in a Cockney family
is probably the cleverest example of her
photography. In the second part of the pro-
gramme the mechanical pleasantries of “The
Dizzy Limit” have replaced the absurdities
of “Something Doing.” The new revue is
brightly dressed as usual, but so far as the
entertainment is concerned —well, The
Bulletin would rather go fishing. Daisy
Jerome is a lavislily-froeked intrusion in the
show. Her trouble is that she intrudes too
long. She ought to be cautioned for loiter-
ing. Incidentally the red-headed lady has
started a Jerome song competition, and the
management has promised to fine itself six
guineas for encouraging the disturbance.
Apparently the cash will he handed over
in three prizes to the misguided females who
are found to be most gifted in imitating
Daisy.
"ON TRIAL," AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
A very bored juryman tries to influence
Hob Greig, the piylieaded foreman.
“The Celebrated Scandal,” showing the
clever Betty Nansen in the principal role,
is stirring the feelings of the populace at
Hoyt’s Melbourne Olympia this week. It is
a dramatic story of a married lady’s platonic
friendship for a discreet young bachelor, hut
blood and tears have to flow in considerable
quantities before Mrs. Rumor is persuaded
that her suspicions are unfounded. The
other Olympia feature is “The Siren’s Song,
wherein a swindler’s soul is tended in pious
circumstances, with results that redound to
the glory of the Church. "The Song” is also
running at Hoyt's Bourke-street theatre,
where the biograph is telling all it knows
about a musician's tragedy called “The
Silent Voice.”
Adelaide theatres are largely coming round
to two new ideas: (1) day shows, (2) a
sliding scale of prices for day, night, and
holiday or Saturday. The Majestic, now the
city’s only variety-house, plays twice a day,
with the magnetic Madge Maitland, Adel-
aide’s own Hilda Felstead (greatly im-
proved by professional experience), and the
sharpshooting Corrigan and Vivian in the
“OX TRIAL," AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
The District Attor-
ney (Frank Elliott )
yetting ready to
spring.
Sydney Stirling as
the woman chaser.
bill. At the Tivoli Kathleen Arnold and
Dorothy Cumming divide the feminine lead
in melodrama, Darcy Kelway and Tilly
Armstrong the comic relief. The King’s
competes briskly, with l’ettitt's old “Hand
of Justice,” somewhat Australianised. The
most striking picture in sight is one of
battlefields in France —at the Royal. The
Central has been lucky enough to dig out one
of Kitchener at a conference; but West’s
and Wondergraph find their regular patrons
roll up just as contentedly for a casual help-
ing of mostly-American “drama.”
James Brinsmead, an ancient figure among
the advertising chemists of Melbourne, and
best known to the public as the author of
an application for rendering Little Willie
pest-proof, has mortared his last pill-mixture.
He was a bent, shrunken shadow of a man
when the end came ; but he kept turning out
his fancy-labelled penn’orths at a handsome
profit until near the last.
“Jenkissimus”: One great daily, with a
knight at its helm, managed to read into a
cable the other morning that both Kitchener
and Jellicoe were lost. A special edition
was rushed out with great speed. It bore
a four-column scare-head, containing the one
word “Kitchener,” followed by a thing like
a landslide. Close inspection showed that
the words “and Jellicoe” had been chiselled
out of the plate in a hurry. A day or two
later the same great daily posted outside its
office in, let us say, Column-street, the news
that a raft bearing 12 survivors of the Hamp-
shire had been washed ashore. But to this
day the sub-editor of that paper is wondering
why some unknown seeker after the truth
which a great daily is demanded of conscience
to speak, impugn it whoso list, should ring
up and ask in all innocence and without
malice —oh. quite without malice —“Was
Sir John Jellicoe on the raft?”
When in 1889 the Calliope steamed out
of Apia Harbor, Samoa, in the face of a
hell-fire hurricane while a dozen war vessels
of other nations in the harbor were being
pounded to wreckage, she carried eight
middies, four of her own and four belonging
to the Orlando, flagship on the Australian
station. Of these eight one commanded the
Monmouth when she was sunk in the Coro-
nel fight; one was in charge of the Ilogue
when she was submarined in the North Sea ;
one had the Amphion, mined, and the
Undaunted, also sunk, in the North Sea ; a
fourth was Admiral Ilood, who went down
in the Invincible off Jutland; a fifth com-
manded the Chatham, which blew up the
Koningsberg; and the sixth was in charge
of the Sydney when she destroyed the
Emden.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Lou Tenant”: ITow long has our Andy
Fisher been in holy orders? Attended a
cinema show here (a small fishing village
somewhere in France) and one of the few
titles of pictures shown in English on the
screen was “The Reverend Andrew Fisher
inspecting Anzac Eroes in London. The
joyful yelp of the Australians present made
the Tommies and natives in the audience
wonder what the joke was.
“Mummer”: Shakspeare was wrong. The
part's the thing!
“Kodak” : The Front Legs of the Donkey
does chicken-farming when the panto, sea-
son ends. He says anyone with a fair
income from some steady job like Front- or
Hind-Legging can keep it going for a while.
The only people who fall in are the greedy
wretches who require more than three hours’
sleep per night and want to make money
out of the fowls. “Art for art’s sake” is
his motto. He admits that it is hardly
playing the game for a Poverty Pointer to
amuse himself brewing ammunition for the
unfriendly gods; liis only defence is that no
egg ever left his studio unless it had legs
and. was unthrowable.
“C. Ockney”: A somewhat remarkable
pro. at present Fuller-circuiting in Aus-
tralia has come in in carpet-slippers. Her
name is Wish Wynne and her specialty in
vaudeville is to give “character studies of
English home life.” The remarkable part
about the lady is that she has not proclaimed
that not so many months ago she was
playing the lead at one of the best of Lon-
don theatres. The o’er-modest Miss Wynne
was in fact the artist selected by Granville
Barker to create the heroine Janet Cannot
in Arnold Bennett’s “Great Adventure”—
the part played by Violet Paget when the
comedy was done at the Little, Sydney—•
and her success during the long, long run
of the piece was only equalled by that of
Henry Ainley, for years one of England’s
best-equipped mummers.
“Redfern Carpenter”: I once was mad
for the boards. I’m glad I was restrained
from setting foot on them. All credit to
dad. His arguments—two of them—were
weighty and knocked the nonsense out of
me. As I say, I’m glad now, though I was
sore then. Recent revelations regarding
the working conditions of the adulated actor
convince me that I’ve got the better job.
It’s steady and reliable, and up to now there
has been no 25 per cent, reduction of my
screw “on account of the war,” and when
I work I get paid. I learn by a paragraph
in the papers that, the mummers having
lately got the managers to recognise their
union, tremendous concessions have been
made by the bosses, and that new terms of
contract have been approved by both sides.
Details of the new agreement, which are
proudly given to the public, show that the
pros, at whatever salary give six nights
and two matinees (that is to say, eight
performances) as their week’s work. I
learn, further, that the performer has to
give three weeks’ rehearsal free before
commencing his engagement. Also a year’s
contract does not really mean a year, but
40 or at the most 42 weeks. And these
terms comprise what the secretary of the
union enthusiastically proclaims “the best
arrangement iie lias ever seen in any pari,
of the world as between managers and
actors.” What the conditions could have
been before this superlative agreement came
into operation can only be guessed at, 1
used to wonder what “Poverty Point
meant. I know now.
A recent London success is an English
opera, “The Bosun’s Mate,' by a woman
music-maker, Dr. Ethel Smyth. It is of
special interest in these parts because
Maorilander Kosina Buckman is the prjma
donna, and has been getting torrents of
applause for her work.
All the actresses belonging to Australia s
earlier dramatic history are being turned up
for war-fund performances in London —
Genevieve Ward. Olga Xetliersole, Bern-
hardt, etc. The number the war kills is
modified to a large extent by the number it
is bringing to life.
W. S. Percy is progressing in “Joyland."
at London Hippodrome. He started the
“interrupter in the audience” to llarry Tate,
then became valet in one of the sketches, and
now is concerned in several of the big turns
of the show. Arthur Wontner, who played
heavies for Julius Knight some years ago,
has gone into musical work, and is playing
the Prince in “A Happy Day,” at Daly's.
“ILB.”: “For the Term of His Natural
Life” Co., Ltd., is forming in Melbourne
with a capital of £4OOO, in £lO shares. The
idea is to make a film of Marcus Clarke’s
novel, and that has been done before. The
directors include one of the author’s sons
and S’renry Weedon —the latter probably
added to give literary tone. The co. secures
the Australasian and I .K. lights for 10
years, and estimated profits are £20,000 —
method of estimation not stated. The
vendors get 130 fully-paid shares and £7OO
in cash, which is quite enough consideration
and probably leaves insufficient for working
capital. The* high costs of efficiency in
movie production in the U.S.A. should be
sufficient hint to the Australian that it’s a
money-eating business, and that a little
capital is the same old mistake of sending
the boy to do the man's job.
“II.O.” : The limit in the way of a muddle-
headed jury figures in “On Trial.” The
charge is murder. Mrs. Strickland, in her
hubby’s absence from home, spends the day
at the seaside house of one of his friends.
When Strickland learns of this he kills the
gentleman. At the trial the wife tells a
harrowing story, which her husband hears
for the first time, of how, 13 years previ-
ously, when an in-no-cent girl of 17, she had
been seduced by the murdered man. Eleven
of the jury favor the husband’s acquittal:
the twelfth is doubtful, but is eventually
won over, because, as one intelligent juror
points out, the affair with the wife com-
bined with the wrong done her' 13 years
earlier surely constitute provocation to
justify the crime. So the dullards solemnly
acquit the hero, unanimously overlooking the
fact that the first hint of his wife’s youthful
“misfortune” was received by the husband at
the trial itself.
“Moana”:' They are starting to censor
kissing on the screen in parts of Uncle
Sham’s country. Ohio has decided that no
flicker kiss must occupy more than 10 feet
of film—-which seems a reasonable, allow-
ance. It doesn’t matter whether it is a
husband being reconciled to his wife or a
mother kissing her son. Anything over 10
is Out.
The captains of both the Queen Mary and
the Invincible married Sydney girls. Cap-
tain Prowse, of the Mary, was married to a
daughter of Dr. A. J. Brady ; and Captain
Cay, who went down in the Invincible, had
for wife a daughter of the late William
Laidley, M.L.C. But Mrs. Cay died four
years ago.
The burning of the ferry steamers Daphne
and Lobelia removes two more of the old
single-ended type which for so long menaced
traffic in Port Jackson. In 1900 the Harbor
Trust issued a ukase against the pattern,
and the present-day double-ender became
universal, although, with the anxious regard
for vested interests common to Govern-
ment Departments, the Trust permitted the
old outcasts to ply within certain limits.
The Daphne, a comfortless, awkward old
craft, was used on the Lane Cove River for
the best part of half a century.
The well-meaning cranks’ attempt to cur-
tail the hours for the sale of liquor on the
eastern goldfields of Westralia proved a dis-
mal failure. Everywhere, excepting a couple
of small, broken-hearted centres, the refer-
endum vote was almost unanimous for 11 p.m.
Which of course goes to prove (1) that the
goldfields are not patriotic; (2) that their
soldiers don’t want to be saved from the
Depths of Der-rink (average depth of der-
rink per day per man, one egg-cup) ; (3)
that as a result of its sinful waywardness
and waste its Little Children have to go
without boots. (Loud tears.)
THE PUBLICAN'S LAMENT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The publican at Wollambell
Said sadly: “.Vow and then
1 have been hard, 1 grieve to tell,
On simple actor men.
I've seized their traps, and cast them forth,
But blacker luck befell:
They come no more from west or north
To play the plays we liked so well
At Beeglehole and Wollambell.
Instead we get those picture plays.
They come in scanty force —
Two mis’rable teetotal jays,
One gorforsakon horse:
Tlnn brag upon their picture bill
Of actors grave and droll ;
You’d think the co. was going to fill
Each pub, but comes no other soul
To Wollambell or Beeglehole.
The ladies fair of whom they boast,
I don't know where they are;
The mirth-provokin’ comic host
Don’t patronise my bar.
The picture actor never eats,
He cuts out drink as well;
They do not sleep, they stand no treats,
To them no wine we ever sell
At Beeglehole and Wollambell.
The living actor bit our ear;
Full oft when on the rocks
lie left to pay for all his beer
Some brickbats in a box ;
But drink he could, and eat, and so
1 made good, on the whole ;
Bi t empty shades that come and go
Upon a sheet bring only dole
To Wollambell and Beeglehole.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


1
m
i
“Orient” Tweed Overcoats
Ready-to-Wear,
From 40/-
“Made by David Jones,” in the popular Chesterfield style, from English
and Scotch Tweeds, in Brown shades specially selected for their even
texture, newness of design and dependable wearing qualities. These
coats are backed by David Jones’ reputation to give satisfactory service.
In all men’s sizes 40 /-
Superior qualities .. 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 65/-, 75/- to 7 Gns.
When ordering please state chest measurement taken over ordinary coat.
WE PAY CARRIAGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DYSPEPTICS SHOULD AVOID DRUGS
AND MEDICINES.
try' a little magnesia instead.
Some people instinctively shut their eyes
to danger, and it may be that instinct, or
custom, or habit causes dyspeptics to take
drugs, patent foods and medicines, artificial
digestants, etc. But closing the eyes does
not banish the danger, and it is certain
that neither drugs nor medicines possess the
power to destroy the acid in the stomach,
which is the underlying cause of most forms
of indigestion and dyspepsia. They may
give temporary relief, but ever-increasing
quantities must be taken, and all the time
the acid remains as dangerous as ever. Phy-
sicians know this, and that is why the
usual advice now given to sufferers from
digestive and stomach trouble is, “Just get
some iisurated magnesia from your chemist
and take half a teaspoonful in a little water
immediately after every meal. This will
instantly neutralise the acid and stop food
fermentation, thus enabling you to enjoy
hearty meals without experiencing the least
pain or unpleasantness afterwards.” —Adyt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantl)-
Furnished and Up-to-date H° te 1
now complete in every detail, » n( ’
under the management of W° s
Usher, the Comforts of a I’erfec
Home are assured. The Cuisin
and Service will compare f a '°*
ably with any Hotel in Englano,
America or the Continent. Ba
De Lu\e in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“iEsculapius”: Nine months ago two
overworked Australians were preparing for
a bathe in the blue waters of the Aegean.
“Beachy Bill” objected, and the boys
jumped for cover. One of them was too
late. The dead man’s chum lay on the
operating-table while his arm was being
explored for an embedded piece of shrapnel.
To the astonishment of the surgeon the
forceps withdrew not a splinter of iron but
a ring of gold. It was the emblem of
fidelity from a girl in Australia to the Anzac
who was blown into particles.
* * * *
Paris Nesbit’s son It.G., now acting as
a police magistrate in Adelaide, has made
a simple and sensible reform, just by say-
ing so. A man was put into the dock,
charged with being mentally defective, and
Nesbit objected to his being there with
criminals. All the police could say was
that it was a practice which had been in
force for years, and that the press did not
report these cases; to which the P.M.
replied that that showed the press thought
as he did. All such matters are to be heard
in chambers in future.
THE WIDOW’S VOTE.
“So you think I am too old for you?”
“A hit —hut I don’t mind giving you my
second preference.”
Parson Howell Price, of Waterloo
(N.S.W.), who has four sons arguing the
point for Australia with Bill the Blood-
soaked, did a bit of battling on his own
account the other day. An old church in
Sussex-street, Sydney, was sold some years
ago. as big warehouses and stores had
taken the place of dwellings in the locality,
and congregations had dwindled till they
were hardly visible. The purchase money,
under the act of Synod authorising the
sale, was to be applied to building other
churches where required in or near the city,
and meanwhile the interest was to 8° to
“evangelistic work” in slum areas. lhe
Svnod was now called together to sanction
a "scheme whereby the money should be used
instead of enlarging the Chapter House at
the Cathedral and building “new and com-
modious offices” for the secretary of the
Soeietv for Providing Bath Buns to
Indigent Stockbrokers. After the Arch-
gaiters in the chair had outlined the plan
and given it his blessing, Price got up and
hurled this bomb :
I can take you to places where our submerged
tenth exist under conditions which are a disgrace to
our Church and the Commonwealth. I can show
you tenements in which people live where moialit
is not possible, and yet we are proposing to apply
this fund, set aside for evangelistic work, PY
purposes. Some time ago I wrote to the Archbish p
for help, but I am sorry I got no reply. The people
I am speaking about look with suspicion on the
Church, and say, “The Church authorities do not
care for us, so why should we care for them.
What they sav about our Church dignitaries would
make your blood run cold. These things are reacting
against the usefulness and extension of the Ohuicn
to which we belong.
Then a squad of faithful curates headed
by an archdeacon, fell on Price and bleated
him out of his trench; and. the bynod
obediently authorised the dignitaries to use
the spondulix in making the gulf between
the Church and the poor a bit wider.
. * * *
“General McMuddle” supplies a report of
the engagement:—
An angry crowd filled the narrow lane, glared at
the towering skyscraper and jostled towards the
steps. A stream of people was struggling to get
clear of the doors. Inside, a couple of lifts were
leisurely drifting up and down in answer to rings
from 11 floors, and sometimes one reached the
bottom. When it arrived 15 people leaped in and a
hundred cursed loudly and tackled the stairs. They
were nearly all bound to the same place, somewhere
near the roof —a narrow rathole where two harassed
individuals were writing in books on a counter.
After prolonged jostle and getting his feet trodden on
and absorbing the aroma of beer and onions, the citi-
zen participating in this struggle managed in an
hour or so to get what he wanted and then escape
in a procession of violent language down seven
flights of stairs, each with a sharp twist in it. It
was a great day. Oh, no! It wasn’t at the out-
patients’ department at one of the hospitals. It
was merely the place where the Sydney citizen had
to go one day recently to induce the Commonwealth
to accept his contribution to the revenue by way of
income tax. Why the Commonwealth Treasury
should have shown such absurd lack of imagination
and not concealed the receiving authority in the
Jenolan Caves is an inscrutable mystery to the
officers of the Intelligence Department.
* * * *
Partly for the good of his soul, but
chiefly because he had been asked to attend
and hear the aged bells of St. James’s rung
in their new location, the G.-G. went to
matins at the Old Cathedral (Melb.) on the
first Sunday iu June.
The ancient peal at St.
James’s was first hung
and rung in 1852.
When recently the mass
of stone, piled up in
1839, was pulled apart
and restacked in King-
street, the bells —three
tons of the m—were
taken along too and
hung on roller bearings
in a steel frame. The
formation of a Society
jf St. James Bell-ringers
followed, with boss
Guest, of St. Paul’s, in
attendance to explain
the difference between a
sally and a treble-bob.
At the old stand, by the
way, the sun seldom
shone squarely on St.
James’s, but the new
building is in an open
and airy position oppo-
site the Flagstaff Gar-
dens. The only appar-
ent difference between
the ’39 edifice and the
resurrected one is that
there is now a row of tall ventilators pro-
jecting from the roof, while the moss that
grew green upon the holy stones has
vanished.
* * * •
“Q. Single” : Wine—in France ! Why, a
cobber came back to camp last night and
said that for a penny a glass he’d got stuff
that made him feel as though he could hang
by his calves from the cobweb on the ceiling!
BENNO’S BRILLIANT IDEA.
HOOKER: “No, I can’t go to the darnce, Benno. I ain't got a tart.”
BENNO: “ Blimey, why don’t yer do wot I done? I never ’ad a tart, so I went ’ome and
brought me missus."
“Karoola” explains and makes matters no
better: —
McCallum, M.H.R., of Maoriland, made no mis-
statement when he said (B. l/6/’l6) that Austra-
tralian privates are not supposed to use first-class
railway carriages in Egypt. According to an Order
issued in February last by the 0.C., Cairo District,
“privates must travel third-class on the trains; ser-
geants, sergeant-majors and warrant-officers may ride
second.” Also military pickets have for many
months guarded the approaches to Shepheard’s and
the Continental Hotel, to intercept interloping
rankers. A cheery disregard is, however, paid to
the law. As in the case of unreasonably offensive
civil statutes, a sort of -compromise has been arrived
at. Any non-com. or private can get into the big
hotels by representing himself to be an officer’s ser-
vant, or by walking in with an officer. Provided
he doesn’t get uproariously tight no one will molest
him; though, by a sort of unwritten law, neither
privates nor non-coms, seem to invade the grill-
rooms where the ultra-fashionables congregate. As
regards the trains, rarely does a white soldier dream
of travelling third, which is the class affected by
the iocal insanitary' natives. Many go second, from
motives of economy. No officers, whether British or
Australian, object to the numerous Commonwealth
and Maoriland privates who habitually go first; and
the Egyptian railway employees know enough
to follow suit. It was once rumored that a couple
of Australian non-coms, were barred from the dining
compartment of the splendiferous white train which
runs between Cairo and Luxor; but the yarn has
never been properly substantiated. Anyhow, it
would only have represented the exceptional insult
which goes to prove the deference which decently-
behaved members of the A.I.F. are mostly' treated
when abroad.
The “defcrerce,” presumably, which includes
them with niggers in an official order! No.
the matter cannot be glozed over. The order
is an insult which Australia will not tolerate.
“Australian Mother” on the same subject:
As a mother who has given her only child to the
Great Cause, may I add a few facts in relation to
R. McCallum’s statement in the Maoriland House
of Reps., with regard to the order that Australian
soldiers may ride only in third-class railway car-
riages in Egypt ? I received last mail a letter
from my son, dated April 19, in which he tells me
that they are only allowed to ride third-class—with
the niggers. A mate of his had the temerity to
venture into a second-class carriage, no third being
attached. He was pulled out by military police, in
spite of an officer speaking on his behalf. As they
pay' their fares they think this not only a humilia-
tion but a rank injustice. We have long known
that pickets are posted at Shepheard’s and the
Continental, to prevent the common herd from
entering those sacred portals. As an Australian, and
a soldier’s mother, I should like to know at whose
instigation this vile insult is offered to us and our
sons. Many have made big sacrifices, given up
good positions and prospects at duty’s call—to be
considered only good enough to ride with niggers!
It is an offence to do anything to prejudice recruit-
ing. That being so, will the Minister for Defence
instantly call on the responsible persons to cancel
all these infamous orders?
* * * *
Tlie Law Institute had the nerve to
introduce a gent, one to Madden, C.J., the
other day and ask for an explanation of one
or two little matters that weren’t quite
transparent. The first concerned an estate
worth £l5O. from which the shark had
hitten £3O for obtaining probate and £25
13s. to pay the undertaker’s bill. When
the undertaker wrote sadly to the legatee
three months later that it was about time
OGRES.
THE CUBIST : “I dreamt last night that my
pictures came to life.”
THE VISITOR ( sympathetically ): “Poor fel-
low! Weren’t you terrified?”
his account was squared, the legatee rang
the firebell in the ear of the Institute.
Another matter which the Institute alleged
to his Honor was that the gent, one had
received money for a specific purpose and
had omitted to apply it as directed. « e
had, in fact, converted it to his own un-
being temporarily embarrassed. Madden
said he couldn't see his way to strike the
gent, off the rolls, but nothing would say*
him from paying Costs. Then everybody
breathed freely except the legatee.
didn’t count. The nark !
LAUGHTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The laughter of the Anzacs in the face of death
has impressed the world. —Daily paper.
AA’e laughed so well when merry sunbeams dancing
Through the high tregp made light and shade below ;
From bough to bough the flirting wrens were
glancing
And all the world had seed of dream to sow.
AVe laughed so well in summer’s comradeship
AYhen the sun kissed the lily’s fragrant lip.
AA’inter with silver look and aged wrinkle
Blows down the chilly way his bitter breath;
The large green rain, on bush and bough asprinkle,
AA’eeps softly where the year lies damp in death.
Vet we laugh well and mock the bleaker skies
Because the long days made us summer-wise.
AA'e laughed so well when life to dancing measure
Went tripping down the yellow ways of peace,
His blown hair lifted by the winds of pleasure,
His white feet in the joy-cloud’s sunlit fleece.
And now because of that high laughter born
Of the white truth we laugh black war to scorn.
x.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.


CROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You’re child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomac 1,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act natural y
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment g non -
Nothing equals California Syrup of big,
‘"Califig”—for childrens ills; give a tea--
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside cleansing.” Directions tor
babies, children of all ages and grown ups
are plainly on the bottle.
hSeep it handy in your home. A little
•given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs —then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Refuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig”—
California Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two
sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [4
HOTEL SYDNEY
Opposite Railway Station,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Modern and Popular Hotel with a Moderate Tariff. 240 Bedrooms—
Hot and Cold Water in each.
TARIFF
Apartments 4/6 each guest
Bed and Breakfast 6/6 each guest
Board and Residence ... 11/-per day
Board and Residence.... 70/-per week
TARIFF.
Wining open to Non-Residents.
Luncheon, a la carte, from t/(i
Luncheon, Table d’hote 2/6
Dinner, Table d’hote 3/G
PERFECT SERVICE.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Orchestra plays in Dining-room 0 to 7.30 p.m.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager
“The Old Soldier” writes: —
“Second Star” (B. 8/6/T6) is quite right, and so
was Winston Churchill, about the folly of classing
officers’ soldier-servants as fighting ifien. l have my
doubts whether officers of the A.I.F. ought to be
allowed soldier-servants at all. The practice is
suited only for a long-service army like the British,
in which it grew up. There the rule was that no
man was to be employed as a servant, or in any
other capacity that exempted him from drill, till he
had been “dismissed recruits’ drill.” In fact, he
had to be doing duty long enough to satisfy his cap-
tain and the adjutant that he was an efficient
soldier. He had to go through the annual training
and course of musketry, and (in the artillery) the
annual gunnery course. That’s a little less accom-
modating than letting men off their recruits’ drill
because officers are too dignified to clean their own
boots. There are not nearly sufficient trained soldiers
to act as servants, and, anyhow, as most of the
officers have never been accustomed to the attend-
ance of a manservant, they would not miss him
if he were not available. Australia cannot afford to
waste fighting hands, but if nursemaids are needed
they can very well be found among the rejected for
physical unfitness.
* * ♦ *
“Chug” wants to start a Bloquage:—
What’s the use of C.M.G. to an Australian? Re-
wards of this kind were invented in a different sort
of country to please people with an altogether dif-
ferent outlook. Take the case of Hughes. lie
appears to be prancing about the British Isles, shout-
ing at the top of his voice in a fashion altogether
uu-Australian. Nobody in the Commonwealth, or,
at any rate, nobody with an Australian handshake,
would offer him prizes for that. His speeches
wouldn’t win a certificate of “Very nearly up” in
The Bulletin’s Correspondence Column; yet
freedoms of cities and doctors’ degrees enough to
fill sugarbags are being flung, to him. That's all
quite right. He's earning British honors in the
British fashion by neglecting his job and making a
noise. But we want Australian honors of our own.
What’s wrong with an Order of the Dinkum Bloque
to start with ? When somebody has done an out-
standing thing which the whole nation delights to
recognise, let him be made an 0.D.8. There
needn’t be any special swank attached to it. No
medal need be struck nor ribbon pinned on to his
tunic; just the plain name given and nothing
more. Then the simple words spoken in the
street, “Here comes the Dinkum Bloque,” would be
greater applause than the shout that greets emperor
or king. Smaller services could be acknowledged
by the bestowal of names of lesser dignity. In
Australia the male population generally addresses
itself as Bloke, Cove, . Joker or Cow, with a few
other titles of natural nobility which are not yet
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER FACES.
“She promised to marry him, hut circum-
stances changed, and now she turns up
her nose at him.”
“What circumstances?”
“His.”
regarded as polite enough for print. By delicate
alterations Of the spelling any of these words could
attain to high distinction; and even a poor Cow
might ruffle it With the best of the foreign nobility,
knowing that he had the sentiment of a continent
behind his title. Even a Turk can be made a
Bey or a Pasha—words that have a meaning to his
race— but an Australian can’t be made anything tat
is Australian, and must, like Hughes, adopt the
method », .amine the other pe.eo.fe
name-handles.
THE VICTORY.
The German fleet defeated a superior British fleet. God Almighty steeled your arms and kept your eyes
clear, but I, your supreme warlord, thank you from the bottom of my heart in the name of the Father-
land and the army.— Kaiser , to his Navy.
WILLIAM: “Ve von der fight, ve won! Der Pritish dog couldn't run so qvick!"
“F.N.T.”: Melba lately let slip the
remark that Melbourne was being “music-
ally starved.” Other murmurs of discon-
tent followed. Finally
Professor Bill Laver
could stand it no longer
and issued a challenge.
If the starving musical
population would come
forward with their
purses open, and if Melba
would contribute from
her voice-box, William
was prepared to provide
a series of concerts at
£2OO a time —say £lOOO
worth altogether, to be
paid for by the subscrip-
tions of the music-hun-
gry. “The tide of our
great musical famine,”
he said nastily, “may be
stemmed by a little more
practical enthusiasm and
less idle talk. The con-
certs may be had by pay-
ing for them.” The atti-
tude of the professional
instrumentalist has of
course had much to do
with the famine in Mel-
bourne. For some time
past the beggar has in-
sisted on being paid for
his services, and paid
well —nearly as well as a
navvy. This has disor-
ganised matters, since so
many of Melbourne’s
musical cacklers are the
kind which regards a
soulful of delight as dear at two bob.
Laver gets it in one. The stuff is in the
store, and all that the ravening music-lover
has to do is to walk in and produce the cash.
* * * *
“L.E.”: Germany is the home of the
elongated word. When I was with the
troops in New Guinea I was appointed
Chinese, German and French interpreter at
the British headquarters. One day a Ger-
man prisoner was brought in and I pro-
ceeded to interrogate him. I asked him his
occupation and he replied, “Bilderverkett-
ungsmechanismusarbeiter.” This bothered
me for a time. So I translated the word
bit by bit and I got the following:
“Pictures - chaining - together - mechanism-
worker.” Then it was simple enough. He
was a biograph operator. But till then it
merely sounded like two dachshunds going
through the mincers in a sausage factory.
He was driver on a goods train and rum
was his tipple. One night a strange fire-
man was on the job and Jim was dozing
off the Jamaica. As the train was rumb-
ling towards a station the fireman was at
his wits’ end to ascertain the number of
blasts to give on approaching the points.
After many urgings to his mate to have
some sense Jim muttered, “Give ’em one
long ’un and let ’em cut it up themselves.”
* * * *
The distress signals of a sea captain:—
The man-huntress is abroad. Our ships are in-
fested with her whenever we carry callow officer-
boys. Her practice is to book a deep-sea trip,
usually to Colombo, bringing her trap in the shape of
a brace of maidens, sometimes three. I know one
determined dame who undertook the responsibility
of scoring-off five misses between Port Melbourne
and Ceylon. The object of the dowager is to get
her protegees definitely “off” before sighting Asia,
and so practised and persistent is she that she
usually bags her prey. The young military officer is
very often a good fellow, but as a rule he is fresher
than wet paint where woman is involved, and all
the promiscuity of ocean voyaging helps the old
party on his trail.. The result is that marriages
are breaking out at Colombo like measles, and any-
thing in the shape of a parson can provide for his
decrepitude. If Johnnie comes marching home,
dear Sissie has a husband, anyhow. If he fails
to reappear, Sissie has a pension. From the bridge
it looks a callous and cold-blooded business, and I
feel like posting a notice on my ship, “Beware of
Man Traps!”
* * * *
Tuesday was the centenary of Sydney
Botanical Gardens. They were, in a way,
begun in Governor Phillip’s time, but did
not get a formal birth certificate until June
13, 1816, when Governor Macquarie “dedi-
cated” the chair hewn from a rock, and gave
it his wife’s name. There is a bit of still
earlier history hanging to the Gardens. One
of the so-called Scotch Martyrs, Joseph
Gerrard, occupied part of the land, and,
dying in a hut there, was given a grave
on the spot—somewhere alongside the creek,
near where the conservatories are to-day.
The actual spot is unmarked.
“For a time,” said the cable, “the sun
was in the eyes of our gunners, but by
skilful manoeuvring our ships got into posi-
tion and a deadly fire was directed at the
enemy.”
“Teller”: Yes, as Tiie Bulletin has
remarked once or twice, compound interest
is a powerful thing. Bill and Jim, both in
khaki, breasted the counter the other day,
and one—the financial member of the party
—asked, “Does this bank give compound
interest?” On being told that it did, he
placed 3d. on the mahogany and said, “Bill
and me want to know how long it will take
this traybit to double itself, so as we can
hath have a drink.” It took only two
minutes.
* • * *
All the little niceties of sea-warfare are
gone, and battle is now plain murder from
stem to stern. In Nelson’s day a warship in
a big fight didn’t see the smaller craft
unless attacked by them; and as a frigate
had no chance against the first broadside of
a seventy-four, the little vessels were gentle-
men, too, and refused to fight anything that
wasn’t their own size. Now it is all differ-
ent. The destroyers run in and try to stab
the big ships; the big ships walk the
destroyers down and trample on them; and
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
“Well, I only hit him to if a sock!"
the creeping submarines go for both with
their torpedo fangs bared. There are no
stately surrenders with admirals in all their
stars coming on board to yield their swords.
Ship, admiral and cook are down before a
boat can be launched ; and their companions
splurge on into the light without pausing for
either tear or cheer.
For one brief, crowded hour the Ilun
Acquired a place within the sun,
But dearly for the boon he paid—
Bull’s gunners put him in the shade.
VICTORIA.
H.O.
A BALLAD OF UTTER BOREDOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The shops are shut and the day's half done,
Arid there’s nowhere to go to and nothing to see;
My only neighbors are folk to shun,
And there’s no milk left for a cup of tea ;
The house is dull as a house can be —-
Dull as a dozen of pious drapers—
And, uttermost depth of the day’s ennui,
I’ve nothing- to read but the daily papers.
Through streets that drowse in the ardent sun
An empty tram bumps down to the quay,
And a dog too languid to bark or run
Yawns as he lazily hunts a flea;
Some people come straggling, two or three
With indolent footsteps, idle gapers,
And the crackling sheets slip off my knee- —
I’ve nothing to read but the daily papers.
Callers to cheer me there's never a one,
Though I’d joyfully welcome the cnttiest rhe;
The earth is utterly void of fun,
The moon of delight is in apcgee,
And how depressing is fate's decree—
To sit bemuddled with boredom’s vapors
And find, when I’d fain set fancy free,
I’ve nothing to read but the daily papers!
Envoi.
Friends, pray list to my piteous plea.
Come as you please, play any capers;
I yawn alone and —alas, poor me !
I’ve nothing to read but the daily papers.
N.S.W.
SYD. C.


“I WONDER HOW LONG THIS BEAUTIFUL WEATHER WILL LAST!”


V‘‘Wot’s yer occupation?” says the recrooting sargent.
”A understudy,” I says.
‘Well,” he says, “you look undersized anyways. If you pass
at all we'll have to put you in the Infantry.”
•You strip well,” says the Medical Ot*?«r; -you 1 !! do.”
wuf.anjrf* /
•*N.B.—I dress well, too," I says. When I
got into karkey the only trouble was to
k get a cap that fit me. My head is wot
“■ they call in inilingtary parlawnce a
outside size.
• * * I pass lightly over the voyage in the
troopship to the Front. I’m generly a good
saylor. but was a bit out of practis. t
v Arrived at the Front I proceeded to dig
myself in. My shooperior officer said if I
didn't the enemy would do
it for me.
P (h« Ue ' '?*
jfof it] Suit afore. J
J hoar people have been askin’ “Wot’s become of
Hop’s Understudy?” Well, because I’ve been to tbe /
Front. 1 went in early to avoid the rush, and here
you see me doin’ things. I got mentioned in .dis-
patches and a box (j>i chockalits for this lot. /
Kvorv moinin- -foie brenk'n.t I
,„„i (o 8 .. ...t »"i*;» s » u, ° le,k
on a empty stummneh.
1 OFF* s)
} u cUHT.
/ WONDE/R if CFAJTJ-tzfc W./IL __
\ C~O/V),jET Paw*/. 0/V T?/E~Sf P/cTu's /? S'-
One (lay a 'fork in \
the oppsition trench
(1 rawed a bead on me
an’ was about to pull
the trigger. “Don’t
shoot .list yet, you pic-
teresk old geezer; let me /
snapshot you first is my
dyin’ request,” I says. While
I was focussing him a dear
comrade of mine spiled the
picter by shooting him
fatally dead.
I was so busy killing people that I got rather
but of practis in my drawing; but I could
always manage to draw the fire of the enemy.
[The Editor of "The Bulletin” likes puns, I
know, and pays extry for them. This is a pun
on draw, you see.]
I got wounded,in the os humerus (the surgeon
called it—he meant the funny-bone, I spose), and
got invalided home. I’m getting better, as you can
see by these presents. When my os humerus gets
well I’m going back to the Front and dig myself
in deeper nor ever.
ky cP. n's .
UnDFr 5- 'TdPP'F'
HOP’S UNDERSTUDY AT THE FRONT.


JfuazicL
Chaving
OTICK
For an
Ideal Shave
m
f M
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
9
©
\
*SCv«S2
*s*6
O •„
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
LEWIS&WhITTY
*4o*o*
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Keep Copies of Your Correspondence by using
Zanetic Paper. You write your letter with pen and
ink in your usual manner, and with no more trouble,
and as you write a clear, permanent copy is P ro "
duced, and the original shows no sign of having
been duplicated. All Stationers, Stores, etc., sell
Zanetic Ink Paper, or from S. B. Zanetic, Leicester
England. Zanetic is ALL BRITISH. —Anvr.
She Darkened Her Grey Hair
A Society Lady Darkened Her Grey Hail
and Stimulated Its Growth by a
Simple Home Process.
SHE TELLS HOW SHE DID IT-
A well-known Society lady who darkened h'' l
grey hair by a simple home process, made tnc
following statement: “Any lady or gentle-
man can darken their grey or faded halt,
stimulate ils growth and make it soft ant
glossy with this simple recipe, which they
can mix at home. To a half-pint of w a
add loz. of bay rum, 1 small box oi '•
Compound and ' -Joz. of glycerine. D u ‘>t
ingredients can be purchased at any cheniis »
at very little cost. Apply to the hair evei.
other day until the grey hair is darken
sufficiently, then every two weeks. I®
mixture relieves scalp troubles and is eSC
lent for dandruff and falling hair. It d" ■
not stain the scalp, is not sticky or gi' ea ;
and does not rub off. It will make a
haired person look 10 to 20 years youngs-
PERSONAL
ITEMS
It. is an accepted theory that the Chief
Justice even of the Speck should be a
knight, and Herbert Nicholls, once a rather
fiery democrat, is the latest victim, after
escaping for two years. A son of 11. R.
Nicholls, for about 30 years editor of the
Mercury, lie earned shoe-leather for years
in tin 1 Post Office, and then went in for
law and later for politics. He was leader
o? the Opposition from J 906 to 1908, when
the Evans Government recognised his merit
(and incidentally got rid of a troublesome
opponent) by making him a Judge. Two
years ago he became, at 46, the youngest
Chief Justice in Australia.
Melba, who was a friend of Kitchener’s for
years, is one of the
few women who
ever saw tears in
the warrior’s eyes.
When “K.” was in
Australia Melba
was at a dinner
given by the
Chelmsfords. After
the meal she was
asked by several of
tin l men to sing,
hut did not feel
inclined to, until
Kitchener put it to
her: “Madame, I
have been an exile
for eight years.
Won’t you sing me
just one verse
of ‘Home, Sweet
I lome’ V” She did.
of course. “And if
you could have
seen the tears in
his eyes as he
kissed my hand,
unable to speak,”
says Melba, “you
would not have
said that lie was
hard and cold.”
G.J.R.
MURRAY, Chief
Justice and Lieut.-
Governor, S.A.
One Mother of the Gracchi at Colac
(Vic.) has made Cornelia look like a
Peace Society spinster. This is Mrs. Alex-
ander Fraser Ross, whose five sons are an
ensample unto the flock. Tascar Alan is
captain and adjutant of the 7th Field (Brit-
ish) Royal Engineers, in Flanders; Lieu-
tenant Keith got his platoon after Gal-
lipoli ; Corporal Alwyn, of the First Aus-
tralian Light Horse, also helped to keep
the Turk at bay; Sergeant Frederick Sal-
toun is somewhere near the Red Sea; and
Corporal Ewen Alexander is with the
Engineers.
DEFINING THE SPECIES.
“What do they mean by calling the Prussian
officer a ‘blonde beast'?"
“Why, that he's a fair cow, o’ course.”
W. S. Buzacott, who died in Sydney the
other day, was secretary to the Free, Secu-
lar and Compulsory Education League, out
of whose agitation came the present
N.S.W. Public Instruction Act. The chair-
man of the League was James Greenwood,
who before he became editor of the S. M.
Herald preached in the Baptist Church at
the rear of St. Andrew’s Cathedral. Parkes
introduced the measure and afterwards
claimed all the credit for the system; but
Buzacott always affirmed that the hairy old
opportunist obstructed the work of the
League until he found that public opinion
had jumped its way. In his spare time the
useful Buzacott had for over 50 years been
a ship-chandler, and for most of that time
the mainspring of the Shipwreck Relief
Society.
Basil Watson, of Melbourne, who stepped
off the Atlienic at Hobart the other day,
has crowded a lot into the last three of his
22 years. He had had a year or so with
Hawker, the Australian birdman, so he got
a job in the air branch of the British Army.
After serving his time in the workshops he
was put on to test new machines, and got
along all right till something went wrong
with the works of a brand-new 150-h.p.
biplane. They pulled him out of the wreck
with a split head and concussion of the
brain. Still he reckons he had rare luck
not to have been roasted. Watson’s idea
is that the British are not so slow in the
air as they might he. They have more aero-
planes than the Germans, and their latest
500-h.p. machines will do 120 miles per
hour on the level and can climb 3000 feet
in 44 minutes, carrying two men and a
quickfiring gun. Tin 1 Fokker, he says, is
overestimated; it isn’t as fast as the now
British machines, and can only carry enough
petrol for a short run, whereas the British
have a range of nearly 700 miles. His idea
of finishing the war is to send 1000 aero-
planes to bomb Ivrupp’s, and so queer the
Huns’ munition supply. But of course that
has been tried: didn’t six aeroplanes drop
bombs on Essen?
Maoriland retains vivid memories of Mrs.
Harry Rainey Parker, Kitchener’s eldest
sister. The Parkers owned Elephant Hill
station, in S. Canterbury, and Mrs. Parker
mostly ran the run. Her second daughter,
Ellen, made rural life her hobby, married a
farmer, and helps to cultivate the turnips.
The mother and one suffragette-inclined
sister are doing war work now in England.
A son is in Egypt on a soldiering staff job
v hich he got before the strife began.
On the retirement of C. J. Dashwood,
superannuated from the position of Crown
Solicitor of South Aus., his work was divided
between Dr. Richards
(Government’s legal ad-
viser) and Shierlaw
(Fublic Prosecutor). A
new man, A. J. Hannan,
will replace Richards as
Parliamentary draftsman,
and advise politicians
who get tangled in their
amendments, or want to
strike out clause 178,
without considering the
effect on clause 83, sub-
section 2 (B). By the
way, the brisk veteran
Dashwood, on being
gently pushed out of
office on the score of
years, celebrated the
event by getting married.
George P. Doolette,
who gets an English
knighthood, was a tailor
in King William-street,
Adelaide, when, in 1898,
Thomas Elder financed
an expedition to look for
pastoral land in the un-
known parts where S.A.
and Westralia meet. It
reported gold at Cool-
gardie, on which Doolette,
George Brookman and
others put up £l5 each
in a syndicate of ten, five
more shares being given
to Pearce and W. G.
Brookman, who went to
prospect. They gave up
Coolgardie for Hannan’s,
found Flynn and Tucker
on the Central Boulder,
and pegged out the adja-
cent Ivanhoe and Great
Boulder—about 400 acres
in all of the Golden Mile.
The syndicate, being
short of cash in 1594,
sent Doolette to London
to get some. Westralia
was simply unknown
there, and he afterwards admitted having
almost given up hope; but at last he got the
Great Boulder off —and then came the boom.
The common conception of Kitchener has
always been wrong. He merely disliked
fuss, and being a poor speaker shrank from
oratory. Otherwise he was a plain person
on two legs. Out in this part of the
world a few years ago he gave people who
came in contact with him the impression
of being rather tired, of having simple
tastes and a disposition to say damn. Ilis
qualities w r ere masculine. The mentality
was not striking. The face was that of a
man who thought slowly of one thing at a
time. There are various yarns to account
for his never having married, and in all of
them the inventors appear to have overlooked
the possible fact that he didn’t want to. Any-
how, the title goes into the family of his
elder brother, whose eldest son is in the
Navy. Perhaps the cash will go there too.
There ought to be a fair wad. It won’t be
soon forgotten that he sat in a gallery while
the Commons discussed how much they
ought to give him for his job in S’Africa.
Hay Frederick Donaldson, who went down
with Kitchener in the Hampshire, was born
in Sydney in July, 1856, in the old Craigend
House, which still stands on the highest
point of Darlinghurst, though its one-time
grounds are now covered by back streets and
terraces of hash-houses. His father wrns
Stuart Alexander Donaldson, who was the
first Premier of the Ma State after the grant-
ing of Responsible Government. Hay Fred-
erick’s elder brother, S.A., also born in Syd-
ney, became a parson, and died last year as
master of Magdalene College, Cambridge. A
younger brother, born after the family had
moved to the Cold Country, is Archbishop of
Brisbane. In spite of the handicap of being
schooled at Eton, all three won distinctions
at Cambridge. Hay Frederick, a topnotch
mechanical engineer, had charge of some big-
jobs in India, and was one of the boss
engineers in the building of the Manchester
ship canal. Eventually he became superin-
tendent of ordnance factories at Woolwich
Arsenal (Eng.), and latterly had been tech-
nical adviser to Lloyd George as Minister
for Munitions. A half-brother is L. S. Don-
aldson, who for many years fined drunks and
read the language passed up on paper at
Sydney’s old Water Police Court.
“Boyd Cable,” The Bulletin’s old
tnbutor, who put his Bulletin m, 2? n '
“Flanders mud-heap” war stories L° ther
book, “Between the Lines,” has been o! °
on a bigger job. After makingT
munition factories in England bv invitW f
Of the War Office, he is producing / T
about it with a preface by Lloyd Geor?e°
His regular job nowadays, after a st-r™?, g
15 months with the Artillery at the Front p!
instiucting recruits in the handling of i - '
weapons. B UI S
Fiank Wild, whom Shackleton left in
charge of the 22 who are freezing in J,
in the cliffs on Elephant Island ? i s „V °n
hand at that kind of thing. He sailed
the Antarctic with Shackleton’s first ex,,h
tion, and then when Mawson went ex l,
ing on his own account Wild was in com'
mnnd of the western party which spent \
winter hanging on by its eyebrows to the
ice-chffs of Termination Land.
John F. Bailey, Director of Bmhnnn
Botanic Gardens and son of the late’ emi-
nent l redenc Manson Bailey, is most in,'
t, l f the Director of AdJlaldrL'S'
Gardens, vice Dr. Holtze, who is retiring
because he is 70. Generous Dr. E. Anew
Johnson, .by the way, has purchased tlio
entire private library of Dr. Iloltze and
lias given the old scientist a home on’Km
garoo Island where he and his wife mav
spend the dusk in peace and comfort.
The icy fang of the winter’s wind put an
end last week to Melbourne’s most ancient
mining expert. Henry Itosales, born in
Spain, came to Ballarat in the golden ! 50’s
as a mining engineer, and made his for
tune. For many years he managed the
famous Uallialla, which paid a quarter of
a million in divs. without'making a call
Rosales was an elderly, estimable gent when
the Walhalla Co. was wound up, but lie
lasted a further 80 years after that, and
was 96 when he died.
Kitchener was 66 when the Germans "ot
him. He had done all his best work before
he was 50. The rest consisted mostly of
staying on top and breaking anyone who
wanted to argue the point. Among them
was Curzon, who was Viceroy of India when
Kitchener went there as Commander-in-
Chief. Curzon got the worst of it, and the
enmity between the two men grew in bitter-
ness as the years went by. Kitchener’s
strength was mainly of character. He had
as a young man an infinite capacity for
taking pains and in a nigger environment his
personality found appropriate stimulation.
He was just a forceful man, who in Egypt
and Zanzibar and Palestine had acquired the
habit of unquestioning command. In some
parts of Europe the same type of army offi-
cer is quite l common. Instead of ordering
black brother about he orders the local
inhabitant.
SENATOR STEVE BARKER (Fic.).
This Avar is letting us into all sorts of
secrets. The last Gazette said: —•
Captain L. S. D. 0. Ff. T. T. de 0. P. Tollcmachc-
Toilemache to be staff-captain (temp.).
But for that tve should never have known
that Billjim’s other name is sometimes
Lyonol Dysart Plantagenet, with a family
tree that a Druid possibly camped under.
THE DATS,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cold faces still and white,
Eyes open wide —-
Wares fobbing loud to-night
Tell how they ride.-
Tossed with the floating weed,
Rising and falling —•
Deaf ears that cannot heed
Victory calling.
Flame from the rending gun,
Thunders of doom !
Swift the red lightnii gs run
Through the grey gloom !
Swift our steel chargers leap,
Uriii defying,
Driving their lances deep,
• Rearing and dying!
Deluge of shot and shell!
This must decide.
Death holds the balance well,
Weighing their pride.
Broken their squadrons reel—
Spur the doom faster!
l it! illy the flying keel
Speeds from disaster.
Ryes I hat arc open wide,
Still faces white —-
Coldly the wares they ride
Sob in the night.
Tossed with, the floating spur,
Rising and falling —
These shall not hear afar
Our triumph calling.
X. H, \V
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


THE WORLD RENOWNED BRAND
NAVY
CUT
\
((
b
5^
u
Hi
u
»=27
L
w 0
Cigarettes, in Three Strengths—Mild, Medium, Full.
Tobacco, in Three Strengths-Mild, Medium, Full. (Also in Plug form)
SOLD EVERYWHERE
W. D.&H.O.WJLLS.
400
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
( LMIND pipes
p*y p 'P e <suara '’'e ed
11111 fp&vifflpW
"TfinriTiiiniiviiiiiiii inirr ' tT 'T —


Overall, MeCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS - Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Sene] for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for nomflowing bores and where the water has receded.
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney. Adopted by the Government
for increasing' supply a 1 Beta Bore, Bourke. ' rg
BUCYRUiS CO. MilwauKee
Steam Shovels, Drag L,irxe Excavators.
Sole Agents WILLIAM ADAMS CSb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Fihelly, who is administering the Justice
Department in Queensland, told a deputa-
tion the other day that “it was hard lines
that any policy-holder who during the
war was unable to pay his premiums should
have what he had paid forfeited. He was
quite sure other policy-holders did not want
bonuses or profits out of the misfortunes of
their fellows.” But what policy-holder is
having his premiums forfeited through non-
payment? Long ago the principle of sur-
render values was adopted in Australia, and
now under the operation of that rule no
policy is voided so long as it is worth a
penny. The principle is quite simple. Every
policy has a certain cash value. That is to
say, if, having undertaken'to pay in till
death or for 25 years, you want to withdraw
in 10 years, the surrender value at that
period is computed and you get it. No
. doubt a great many people are disappointed
at the amount of that value. They expect
to get all they have paid in with interest.
That of course is impossible. They forget
that, though they have lived 10 years, a lot
of other policy-holders haven’t done so, and
that those people’s wives or children have
had to be paid the full amount of the
policies, although the holders may have
contributed only two or three pre-
miums. The true surrender value can
be and usually is computed with scien-
tific exactness; in other words, the
actuary can tell the true value of
the policy on any given date. And with
practically no exceptions policies are not
forfeited until that value is exhausted. Thus
the office makes no profit out of them. It
is quite a mistaken idea that it pays an
office to forfeit a policy; the policy is not
forfeited while it is worth anything to any-
body. If policies are kept alive after they
are of no value, it can only be at the expense
of other policy-holders; it would cost just
as much to keep a worked-out policy alive
as it would for the office to issue new free
policies to its friends. There would be a
horrible row if anybody suggested that that
should be done; yet in principle and in
result the two actions would not differ in
the least.
* * * *
The London Bank of Australia: —
Dividends.
Pref. Old. Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. 5 1 p.e. 21 pc. Reserves, serves.
1905 . . £'23,194 £9,456 £9,193 £4,545 £16,107
1906 . . 36,454 9,456 9,197 17,801 33,908
34 p.c.
1907 .. 34,951 9,456 12',876 12,619 46,527
4 p.c.
1908' .. 34,212 9,456 14,716 10,040 56,567
5 p.c.
1909 . . 42,971 9,456 18,402 15,113 71,680
7 p.c.
1910 .. 63,708 12,035 18,402 33,'271 104,951
1911 .. 70,532 12,035 18,405 40,092 145,043
1912 .. 80,498 12,035 18,414 50.049 195,092
Internal reserves disclosed, £135,000 ;
and £85,000 written off . . 50,000 245,092
6 p.c.
1913 .. 84,111 12,035 22.096 49,980 295,072
7 p.c.
1914 . . 76,394 12,035 31,114 33,245 328,317
1915 .. 72,867 12,035 34,358 26,474 354,791
There’s a lot of difference between the first
three lines and the last three. Apparently
when things went wrong with the seasons in
1903-4 the London got alarmed, and, having
still a good deal of dear money to provide for,
decided to sock away every available penny
in case of trouble. Things turned out better
than the very-English directors feared they
might, and by 1912 their confidence had been
so thoroughly restored that they disclosed
£135,000, which they had saved up for con-
tingencies, and which they didn’t think was
any longer required. All this explains some
at least of the great difference between the
20 or 30 thousand admitted profits of 10
years ago and the 70 or 80 thousand of the
present.
There have been other contributing causes,
though. Ilun the eye over this comparison
of 10 years’ movements: —
1905. 1914. 1915.
Notes in circulation £106,144 £7,155 £6,248
Bills, etc 667,663 683,358 711,268
Old deposits . . 1,258,090
New deposits . . 2,935,600 5,151,572 5,497,148
Liquid assets .. 1,644,597- 2,209,663 2,346,054
Advances .. . . 3,522,297 4,378,277 4,626,631
Premises .. .. 383,187 274,465 289,555
The old deposits which have entirely disap-
peared were "the remnant of the land-boom
jimjams. One or two Australian banks
prided themselves on the bargain they drove
with the depositors whose money they locked
up when they went bung in ’93. To the
credit of this bank (maybe this was because
it was very English, too) it didn’t try to
drive a hard bargain with people to whom it
was morally bound to pay 20s. in the £ so
long as it had a penny itself, and it actually
undertook more than it could perform. Even
after modifying the terms the holders of
these old deposits got 4| p.c. To replace
this money the bank raised some new capi-
tal ; also it has added £2,500,000 to its new
deposits in 10 years, and has thus been
able to increase its advances by well over a
million. These things all helped profits.
There are pref. shares and ordinaries; but
the former are now preferential only as to
capital; they don’t any longer come in ahead
of the others when there’s a limited amount
of profit to be poured in the trough. The
future so far as shareholders are concerned
will mostly depend on the management —of
this bank and of Australia. The field is
here all right. Apart from the Common-
wealth Bank no new bank has been born in
Australia for nearly 30 years; and there has
been a very large development of trade
during that period. And as the war will cer-
tainly give a fillip to manufacture, the
development of possible jobs for the banker
should be still more rapid in the future. But
what we shall really do depends on (11 pub-
lic confidence in the stability of tariff pro-
tection and (2) whether the Australian
workman will take his coat off. As for the
London’s creditors, there are two things to
give them confidence; there is enough wait-
ing in the till and in liquid assets to pay
them 38 p.c. of all that the bank owes them ;
and it has £4,916,186 in non-liquid assets
wherewith to pay the £3,868,608 of debt
which it couldn’t pay at once out of its
liquid assets.
The Southland Building and Invest-
ment Society and Bank of Deposit
(Invercargill. M.L.) :
Net To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1903 .. £2,040 41 p.c. = £2,420 £220 £892
1904 .. 2,811 5 „ „ 2,637 174 1066
1905 .. 2,913 5 ~ ~ 2,867 46 1112
1906 .. 3,483 5 „ 3,177 306 1418
1907 .. 4,547 6 ~ ~ 4,277 270 1688:
1908 . . 4,866 6 .. 4,829 37 1725
1909 .. 5,477 0 „ ~ 5,364 113 1838
1910 s .. 6,151 6 ~ „ 5,911 240 2078
1911 .. 6,688 6 „ ~ 6,613 75 2153
1912 .. 7,137 6 .. „ 6,976 161 2314
1913 . . 8,085 6 ~ ~ 7,866 219 2533
1914 . . 9,059 61 „ „ 8,743 316 2849
1915 .. 10.035 61 ~ ~ 9,730 305 3154
1916 . . 10,596 61 „ „ 10,484 112 3266
This is a little concern which combines impu-
dence with money-lending. Twelve months
ago The Bulletin drew attention to the
dangerous rule under which the reserves may
not exceed a preposterously inadequate 1 p.c.
of the total amount out on mortgage; and it
was added that, not only is the greater part
of the money borrowed —sonfe of it on no
better terms than money at call—but that
even capital is withdrawable “seemingly at
a moment’s notice.” The directors reply
that capital isn’t withdrawable at a moment's
notice, because “if funds run short maturing
shares have to be paid out in rotation by
ballot.” But, they add. it has so far never
been necessary “to resort to the ballot to
ascertain who should receive their money
first.” Suppose there had to be a ballot
“to ascertain who should receive tlieir money
first”—that is, among the shareholders —
what sort of a riot would there be among the
creditors? To show on what short terms this
money is borrowed it is only necessary to"
say that on April 20, 1915, the money owing
on “debentures” was £121,231, and that
during the past year no less than £126,557
of “debentures” money matured and was
paid out. Thus obviously the greater part of
it is not debenture money at all in the
ordinary sense of the term; it is money left
on deposit for very short terms. Now on
April 18, 1916, the co. had: —
Share capital ..£173,768
“Debentures’’ . . 120,413
Other liabilities .. 4,337
Total i: “..£298,518
On past experience it seems safe to say that
practically the whole of this “debenture”
money will be called for within a few months
—say two years at the outside —and during
last year no less than £35,970 of share capi-
tal was also called for and paid out. Yet,
notwithstanding that the co. is liable to be
called upon to provide this very large sum of
money, no less than £297,l94—practically
the whole of it —is out in advances on mort-
gage and shares. The balance at the bank—
that is, the entire liquid’assets—amounts to
under And it is a co. financing in
this manner which prohibits itself having a
reserve of more than 1 p.c. of the money
risked in advances ! In these circumstances
The Bulletin again draws the attention of
the Government of Maoriland to the shock-
ing state of a law which permits a co. to
call itself a bank and take deposits, and at
the same time retain a rule preventing the
accumulation of a reserve of more than 1 p.c.
of the risks. What the co. thinks it is going
to do if there should be a financial crisis, and
it should be necessary to realise securities
under adverse conditions, Heaven only
knows.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and
Agency Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
. „ „ To Re- f Re-
Apnl, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1905.. £2302 121 p.c.= £1093 £1209 £7,350
1906.. 2094 121 „ „ 1172 • 922 8 272
1907.. 1817 121 „ „ 1172 645 s’9l7
1908.. 2205 121 „ „ 1172 1033 g’9so
1909.. 2516 121,, ~ 1172 1344 11 294
1910.. 2413 121 „ „ 1172 1211 i^BSo
1911 f 2188 15 „ 1406 782 ) ,
“l Written off, £lOOO I 12,317
1912.. 2343 15 p.c. = 1406 937 13,254
1913.. 2032 15 „ „ 1406 626 13’880
1914.. 2331 15 „ „ 1406 925 14 805
2259 15 „ „ 1406 853 1 5 ’,658
1916.. 30 Id 15 ~ „ 1406 1607 17,265
"Interest and discount” realised £1791 last
year; and that paid the dividend and taxes,
and allowed all the net profit from the busi-
ness to go to reserves, where of course they
make it easier for the directors to maintain
the handsome 15 p.c. div. The co. is on a
good wicket all right. In spite of very rea-
sonable charges for handling trust estates—
rather lower, on the whole, than prevail in
Australia the co. has in 10 years accumu-
lated reserves in excess of the paid capital•
meantime, as the table shows, the divi-
dend has been 124 p.c. some of the time, and
'•> P-c. most of the.time. And the risks are
\ei \ small. I Tactically there are only two—
(1 ) arising from some breach of trust, the
result of misreading a will or other instruc-
tion. or of gross carelessness; (2) the faulty
investment of the co.’s own funds. As to the
former, a trustee co. has always the Court
to fall back on when in doubt; as to the
latter —well, a co. like this deserves to lose
its money if it chases around after doubtful
securities for the sake of an extra pound or
two of interest.
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd.: —
Dee., Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1905 .. £4,610 Nil *6,393
1906 .. 9,925 4J p.C. = £11,389 4,929
1907 . . 15,965 6 „ „ 17,083 3,811
1908 .. 23,616 8 „ „ 22,777 4,650
Accumulated profits on sales, £148,709 153,359
1909 . . 25,183 20 p.C. = 56,944 121,598
Book profit on purchase of Mercantile
Bank Assets Co., £28,782 .. ... 150,380
Other assets written up, £145,205 . . 295,585
Special distribution of assets in 4 p.c.
debentures, £246,559 .. •• 49,026
1910 . . 26,289 6| p.c. = 18,492 56,823
1911 . . 34,910 8J ~ „ 24,656 67,077
1912 . . 38,009 8i ~ ~ 24,656 80,430
1913 .. 34,717 BJ,, „ 24,656 90,491
Premiums on new shares, £1032 .. 91,523
1914 .. 24,970 8 p.c. =' 24,000 92,493
Written off, £ 18,721 .. .. •• 73,772
1915 . . 15,522 5 p.c, = 15,000 74,294
If you want ham and eggs for breakfast
you mustn’t eat your fowl; and that is what
this co. did: it wrote up its assets, issued
debentures to correspond, and now of course
can’t show any profit to speak of on the
sale of the written-up assets. This exhibits
the change that has taken place:—
Re- Profit on Profit
deemed Purchase on Pro-
Debentures during of De- perty
Outstanding. Year, bentures. Sales.
Dec., 1905. . £262,383 £42,131 £B5B £26,817
„ 1906.. 189,579 72,804 648 31,274
~ 1907.. 150,693 38,886 213 15,545
„ 1908.. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
„ 1909.. Nil 89,241 7 47,435
„ 1910.. 193,953 52,606 1654 1,874
„ 1911.. 151,057 42,896 1838 3,624
„ 1912.. 93,882 57,175 443 12,644
„ 1913.. 92,970 912 49 7,677
v_ Y '
„ 1914.. 37,847 55.123 691
„ 1915.. 38,087 2127
The co. was formed to take over and dis-
pose of the wreck of various Melbourne con-
cerns that foundered in the storm of the
early ’nineties —the City of Melbourne
Bank, the Federal Bank of Australia, the
English and Australian Mortgage Bank and
(in 1910) the Mercantile Bank. The share
capital is now £300,000 and there are liabili-
ties totalling £75,453. On the other side
are “investments” taken over £299.209,
purchasers’ balances £79,<831, and new in-
vestments £00.013; the balance is mostly
cash. The old investments include a Fiji
sugar estate and a sheep station ; and though
they give variable returns the outlook for
such holdings is generally good. Last year
the net return from these two properties
was £8035 less than in the previous year.
The first table shows £18,721 recently writ-
ten off. This is really an amount by which
profit in previous years was improperly
swollen : it represents income tax for which
the co. was held to be liable plus costs.
The Manufacturers’ Mutual Accident
Insurance Association, Ltd. (Sydney),
formed to do Workmen’s Compensation in-
surance for manufacturers. The deficit of
£lOO with which the co. began represents
preliminary expenses :—-
Bonus to
Profit. Dividends. Shareholders. Deficit.
- £166
April, - Reserves.
1915 .. £5421 10 p.c. = £155 £2530 2570
1916 . . 7263 10 „ „ 172 4593 5068
The reserves are compounded as follows:
1915. 1916.
Unexpired risks .. £1570 £3143
Contingency fund .. 1000 1925
Total .. £2570 £5068
The fund to provide for current risks is, of
course, not a true reserve. It consists,
indeed, of unearned premiums. The contin-
gency fund is apparently a general reserve.
Anything left over, after paying shareholders
30 p.c. on their little £l9lO of capital, is cut
up among policyholders. For the past year
the premiums at tariff rates amounted to
£11,024. Off that policy-holders get £3441 plus
£1352, or £4593, equal to just under 42 p.c.,
or Bs. 4d. in the £. It was worth forming a
co-operative co. for, especially as sharehold-
ers also get 10 p.c. on their money, put aside
for contingencies (apart from unexpired
risks) another Is. Set. in the £, and give the
Chamber of Manufactures a substantial aid
which would otherwise have to come out of
the members’ pockets. Actual claims last
year were 20.8 p.c. of the premiums, and exes,
(exclusive of were 12.2 p.c. By re-
turning the balance to the manufacturers’
pockets this co. has done something of solid
value for Australian industry, and is in a
small way a national benefactor. The funds
which are rapidly accumulating are held very
liqiud either in bank deposits or in war
loan.
* * * *
The Country Producers’ Selling Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), a more or less co-operative
concern, dealing in farm and station pro-
duce :
Bonus
to Con- Written
March, Loss. Dividend. signors. Off. Deficit
J 91 1" *660 £660
Pi ofit. Reserves.
1912.. 3590 5 p.c. =£9B4 £869 —. 1077
1913.. 6975 71 ~ „ 1731 2872 3449
1914.. 9058 8 ~ „ 2000 4237 £lOOO 5270
191 e.. 6081 7 ~ ~ 1750 3498 500 5603
1916.. 94/9 7 ~ ~ 1750 5295 1000 7037
This semi-co-operative co.’s profits for the
Dost year gained something at the expense of
the previous year’s. As at March 33, 1935,
the co. had on hand no less than 14,950
bales of wool, in respect of which it had
incurred some expense. The carry-over into
the current year was only 2469 bales. Thus
last year 'it had the profit on the sale of
nearly 32,500 bales of the previous year’s
wool. This and the high prices got for both
wool and fat stock —which, of course, meant
large commission earnings—more than coun-
terbalanced the shrinkage in offerings due to
last year’s drought. Considering the youth
of the co. the turnover is excellent’ and
besides, paying the reasonable 7 p.c. div.
there is no difficulty in maintaining the
bonuses to consignors—20 on a?
chars,, in the case of wool 1 ?' 8 ' Ui “*
charge to 2 p.c.; 1(1 p.c i„ ,I,”*?',
stock, reducing the selling d,™ ,at
A honus (percentage mispecilied) ’J* .Sf
allowed in the produce department m°
capital is £25,000; the liabilitiesnL Il,e
Po ™* B P aid in advance of tiff
£oo, 1 22. This is more than represent. K
the other side by sundry debtors
Freehold (a fine store at Pvrmontf’
plant, etc stand in the books at £4o“£?
1 nor to the payment of the last ,1; a
and bonus the co. bad aslets £16882*1
excess of capital and liabilities ThhT n
is accounted for as follows: To belaid “
dividend and bonus, £7045; bonus to staff
£3OO ; reserves as per table, £7037- reSf’
for depreciation of buildings (not reckon a
as a reserve in the' table, butshown
amounts written off) £2500 Th. c 3s
jjsus «* iriff'sun 1 . t, S
£00,0,0 As sales were in progress risrK
the end of the month, the bulk
this is no doubt ledger balances. Butthel
certainly are some advances; and t W
too, may be wholly sound assets tI
depends entirely on the management Vlo
of money has been lost that way by othe
cos There is need therefore to IxevcZ
much caution. The old pitfall was that a
little worse than sound security was accepted
rbi^^?r ng "f™ ta “'“>»E‘2
(.SaidO fl“ * SALI Co.
„■ ... „ Nominal
May, Profits. Dividend. Off 6 "™' '
1904 ••£6,041 7| p.c. = £4939 £750 £352’ £10?/;
IS:: SS ?!:: : IS ?•“ !
1»07 .. 4.883 OJ „ „ ;50 « »g
1908 •• 6 32 Nil _ _ ,0 91
Profit.
1909 .. 6,426 74 p.c. = 4939 2000 _ qras
1910 . . 10,863 10 „ 6585 3000 1278 oOSfi
3 910 ' ' i n ” ” 3000 1*24 6410
191- .. 11,960 10 ~ ~ 6080 3000 €>37 p; 070-
i™ »M« >» .. •• sooo ”77 ”«
** I’Zll 7 f ” ” 4939 3000 9200
1915 . . 2,956 3£ ~ ~ 2469 1500 81H7
1916 .. 6,118 5 „ „ 3292 2500 320 8513
The foreigner gave this co. a bad time for
a couple of years; and drought, which
affected the salt harvest, joined with increas-
ing costs to bring the net profit for 4 914-5
down to about 2 p.c. on the capital. During
the past year the foreigner has had his
troubles, and, though costs have further in-
creased. “selling prices are being adjusted to
meet the situation.”" The fact of the matter
is everything has been moving up except our
tariff. 1\ ages have been climbing, and
though cost of production has thus been
advanced, the altered situation has not been
met by higher duties. The only thing that
has saved the Australian industry from being
squeezed worse even than it has been is that
probably as the result of more plentiful
gold wages and other costs have advanced
in other countries, too. But whether the
higher wages paid in other countries will be
maintained after the war is very doubtful;
and that makes it all the more necessary to
give this and other Australian industries
more protection. The old yarn was that
it was dangerous to make the duty a farthing
more than was absolutely necessary, because
the fat manufacturer would simply put it in
his pocket. The fat manufacturer has a
fat chance of doing it in these days. That
this salt manufacturer, at any rate, hasn’t
been able to make a fat thing out of his busi-
ness is shown by this: in 10 years it has
averaged only 7 p.c. on the capital, and the
surplus of assets other than fixed property
and plaint has grown less than £5OO a year.
1905. 1915. 1916.
Assets other than fixed
property and plant.. £24,760 £35,150 £32,374
Liabilities . . .. 10,391 19,602 13,184
Surplus ..£14,369 £15,548 £19,190
And there has been no stuffing away of pro-
fits into property and plant. Those items
stand practically where they did 10 years
ago—there is 'less than £2OOO difference
between then and now.
Toowoomba (Q.) Co-operative Insur-
ance Co.:—
Policyholders’ Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Bonus, serves.
1910 £1664
1911 •• S £707 10 p.c. =£27 £246 2098
1 Transferred to capital, £272 .. 182 >
1912 • • J 365 10 p.c. = 56 338 2397
.. \ Transferred to capital, £2BO .. 2117
1913 .. 793 10 p.c. = 110 308 2492
1914 .. 1199 10 „ „ 137 503 3051
1915 .. 486 10 „ „ 137 578 2822
1916 .. 1158 10 „ „ 137 503 3340
Heaven only knows what is going to happen
to this little co. now. It was formed pri
inarily to do the shareholders’ workmen’s
compensation business, and that is still by
far the most important department; but it
takes also plateglass and fire risks. In the
past year about £lO7O of the total net profit
came from workmen’s compensation; in the
previous year there Mas a loss of over £701)
on all other business. Now the State has
set up an insurance department, and seeks
to establish the sole right to take workmen’s
compensation risks; and if it succeeds it will
be a serious question whether it will be
worth while for this co. to carry on as a
separate concern. If it isn’t, there will be
this consolation: shareholders who put up
only £1873 will find (after current divs. an<l
bonuses have been paid) over £4500 of more
or less liquid assets.
* * * *
The proposal before the Council of the
Institute of Mining Engineers to place the
industry on a sounder investment basis and
protect the professional status of bona fide
mining engineers should commend itself to
everybody who ever touches a mining share.
The proposal includes the incorporation of
the Institute under the Federal Companies
Act foreshadowed recently by Treasurer
Iliggs in his Budget speech. A long-felt
want is filled by clause ( m) of the Memo-


The British Westinghouse Electric 8i Mfg. Co.. Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the Bi ltish
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors ; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
AC. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments ; Transformers and Converters ; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
mm
m
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works
Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
Experience convinces when arguments have
failed. Ali who have experienced the superior
qualities of “Chrorool ’ leather belting are convinced
that there is nothing to equal it as a power-,
transmitter. It is heat- and moisture-proof, and
being mineral-tanned it is longer and stronger in
fibre. It, will take the heaviest drive under the most
adverse conditions. Atmospherical or industrial
difficulties make no difference to the efficiency of
“Chromol.” Used exclusively on many of the most
important drives in the largest mining plants in the
Commonwealth —its durability and pliability assure
economy and efficiency. .1. O. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
“Pioneer Leather Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney,
(opp. Q. V. Markets). Inter-State agents:—-Victoria:
Geo. Russell Pty., Limited, Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne; South Australia: -T. McKell, Timpson Street,
Port Adelaide; West Australia: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth, W.A. ; Queensland: Queens-
land Machinery Co., Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo. C.
Dempster, Argent Street.—Advt.
General Electric! Luminous Radiators transform the
gloom of Winter into the radiance of Spring. They
are made in various types and patterns and finished
in either polished nickel or copper, which remains
permanently clean and bright. Their artistic design, •
together with their reputation for cleanliness, con-
venience and absolute safety, proves them an ideal
Winter finish for either office or home. —Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.—Advt.
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and wHI be glad to forward particulars.—Advt. [1
Colonial Mutual Life Office. —“Summarising
the annual report and actuarial investigation in a
general way, one is bound to admit that the figures
give cause for unbounded satisfaction and congratu-
lation, not only to the directors and management,
but to the members also. They have the pleasure of
realising that shrewd and capable administration
is evinced in every feature.”-—Advt. [0
“Pioneer” Wood Stave Pipe lasts indefinitely, and
the sole condition to ensure durability is that the
pipe shall be kept saturated. In addition Wood Pipe
is the most economical pressure pipe obtainable.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
57 York Street, Sydney. (Contractors to all State
Governments.) —-Advt.
Patents.—-Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—Advt.
Earth-handling Machinery, Ditching Machines, Ele-
vating and Road-graders, Scoops, Plows, Metal Cul-
verts, etc., specialised in and stocked by The Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane ; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay,.
Sydney.—Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading-
mines in Australia.-—Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Pater*
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street ' ■ l . s
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practise
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt. • write
Laboratory Glassware and Ar‘ , .
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsw , US A t ,- ssi
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s * Oertlmg
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. „ Crucibles, Braur
lowest rates. Call or writ' . Pure Chemicals,
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., p A<n° V ai l S -‘ o V'
and 443 Bourke Street ._P Connell Street, Sydney
. Melbourne. — Advt.
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up ... ... 82,500
AGENTS WANTED
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782.611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ' "
Gen. Man. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
randum, which sets forth the object of
obtaining an Act of • Parliament; it pro-
poses that the prospectus of every public
co. offered for flotation for the purpose of
engaging in any mining enterprise shall bear
a report signed by a person who shall be
registered by the Institute as a qualified
mining engineer or metallurgist. The body
proposes to raise its standard of member-
ship and recognise the value of technical
training, by admitting as members gradu-
ates of a university or mining school recog-
nised by the Council, who shall also have
held some responsible position for a period
of four years. For men who have graduated
in the school of practical experience, the
holding of responsible positions for seven
years shall, it is suggested, supply the
i(quired qualification.
* * * - *
Block 14 Torrington’s annual report shows
that 68 tons of wolfram-bismuth concen-
trates were produced from 20,853 tons of
crudes. The profit on working account was
£927. but a loss is shown when all other
charges are taken into account.
* * * *
Bodangora (N.S.W.), after cleaning up
756 tons for £2841, hands out another six-
penny, which will cost £1250. Dividends
have been dropping in every other month ; it
takes approximately 1500 tons, worth
£4500. to provide a sixpenny. The capital
is £25,000, in 10s. shares, so a regular bi-
monthly sixpence is equal to 30 p.c. Still
it isn’t reasonable to expect regular distribu-
tions, because reserves are not large and
have to be renewed by development, which
isn’t certain in its results. But, giving
all that in, the resurrection of this old
property is another small mercy for which-
N. 8. Wales mining has to thank the
Victorian.
* * * *
Amalgamated Zinc, which has signed a
contract to take 4000 electrical horse-power
from the Tasmanian Government, and
secured the right to 30,000, with a possible
extension to 50,000, is now looking for a
site for works. It is negotiating with the
State Government for the lease of 50 acres
of land at Derwent Park, a few miles out
of Hobart; and, as there is every reason why
the State should be affable, it is likely to
get what it wants.
* * * *
Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.) produced £119.508
worth of bullion last year from 79,540 tons
of ore, which spells a shade over 30s. fier
ton. The profit was £26,937, against
£35.416 in 1914. Boppy cannot afford to
handle oi'e of much lower grade, because
costs averaged £1 2s. 54d. per ton last
year, and the prospect of making them
just now is very slight. The dividend was
Is. per share, in addition to 10 p.c. on prefs.
Some of Westralia’s big gold-mining cos.
are in for a rough time. Since the start of the
war, prices of material have crept up until
now, under this head alone, it costs about
2s. 6d. more to treat a ton of ore than it
did at the beginning of 1914. To that has
to be added the introduction of. in some
cases, unnecessary regulations which meant
large capital expenditure; and increased pay
in various directions and the Scaddan
profit tax on money spent in develop-
ment haven’t improved matters. Several
cos. hitherto making ends meet will certainly
have to shut down.
* * * *
Westralia’s export of minerals other than
gold was maintained last year despite war
difficulties. Copper shipments totalled
£91.169, or £52.995 more than in 1914.
Pilbarra and Phillips River were the chief
producers. Tin exports at 429 tons, worth
£5742, showed an increase of 66 tons com-
pared with the previous year’s figures. Pro-
duction is now confined to Greenbushes and
Pilbarra. Collie is still the only working
coal-field in the State. Its six mines pro-
duced 286,666 tons, or 32.544 tons less than
in 1914, the decline being due to water
troubles in one of the mines and a falling
off in the bunkering trade. Silver obtained
as a by-product was worth £24 295, and
lead and silver-lead £39,032.
* * * *
Westralia’s Mines Department report for
1915 shows that tin 1 value of the mineral
output was £5.478.149, or £55,841 less than
for 1914. Gold accounted for £5.140,228, or
nearly 94 p.c. of the total. The total
mineral production is novf £130,383,124, of
which gold represents £125.258.154. The
average value of the ore treated rose from
37.815. a ton in 1914 to 38.415. in 1915, and
in Ivalgoorlie (which for years has pro-
duced more than half of the total yield)
from 34.205. Ao 85.405. Working costs were
slightly lower, but credit cannot be taken
for that, on account of the fires and floods
of the previous year. The number of men
engaged in all classes of mining totalled
12,253, a decrease of 921. The Call was
mainly responsible for this drop, and the
loss of good miners has naturally had an
effect on production and costs.
Evidence in the Edna May Deeps’ case
disclosed the varying methods adopted in
the West of estimating gold values from
diamond-drill cores. One is to split the
core down the centre and divide one-half
into short lengths. Each length is crushed
and assayed independently; and then a
sample of the whole lot is put through,
h rom these results the average value of the
core is calculated. The other half is put
aside in case of argument. This method is
m general use on the Rewick-Moreing and
some of the big mines at Ivalgoorlie. Another
way is to assay alternate pieces of core. A
third, that adopted by Stuckey at the Deeps,
is to chip off portion of every bit of core
and put the balance back in the box. The
most accurate method is to crush the whole
of the core and assay a sample; the disad-
vantage is that no solid portion of the core
is left for check sampling.
* * * *
I’or the last two years (Holden Tiidge
(W.A.) has been expecting to see the end,
but by getting a little gold here and a little
there, the show still manages to cheat the
undertaker. The main shoots have, to use
the directors’ words, “undoubtedly been
worked out,” and the management is now
scratching for ore. Tonnage has fallen con-
siderably, but with reduced-• exes, a small
profit is still being made. The co. has a
cash balance of over £ll,OOO, and as the
Board has been unable to get a suitable
show in which to invest it the chairman
hints at passing a portion of the money
to shareholders by way of return of cap-
ital. Some time ago Bs. per share was
distributed, and if a further return of
capital is made all chances of the co. pur-
chasing another property will be gone.
From what the chairman said one would
believe that Westralia had absolutely noth-
ing to offer in gold-mining ventures. Yet
since the Golden Ridge announced that it
was a buyer of new or old mines, Mel-
bourne cos. have secured the -Edna May,
Edna May Central. Pinnacles, Riverina
South, Leonora Blocks and a host of out-
back leases, while a Ivalgoorlie co. got the
New Boddington.
* * * *
Extract from a Gwalia Central (W.A.)
report, which seems to indicate that this
boosting co. is at it again:—
Have struck magnificent gold at the end of No. 4
shaft drive. Looks like the beginning of a line
shoot of ore going several ounces per ton. As it is
in virgin country the stopes over this level should
give a good account of themselves.
If they do it will be more than the co. has
ever been able to do before, despite hifalutin’
reports and dazzling developments.
*. -X- * *
Mount Cutlibert’s smelting account for the
past half-year is not over-cheerful. Blister
copper worth £48,551 was won, but £81,740
went in smelting charges, railage, refining
and realisation, leaving about £17,000 for
mining costs, etc. And as mining costs, etc.,
including the outlay on 1860 ft. of develop-
ment and driving, interest bill and office
exes., ran to over £23,000. there was a loss of
£0377. Cash in hand has simmered down
to £529, and this mite, with £14,506 of
copper on hand and in transit, is what the
co. has in liquid assets against liabilities of
£20,922. Of course, the big prop in the
chow is the ore reserves, which Powell,
senior, figures at 158.500 tons, containing
12,800 tons copper. The Cuthbert mine is
the plum of the claims with its 140,000 tons
of 7 p.c. ore developed, leaving Ivalkadoon to
provide the sweetening with 10,000 tons of
124 p.c. stuff. What put the hands back
financially was the block on the railways when
the drought broke, and the discovery, made
after smelting had begun, that the type of
furnace suited for the Mount Elliott ore
wasn’t the right fit for the Cuthbert product.
The co. should have its own smelter at work
about August, so it will have to bridge the
gap between the end of its smelting con-
tract with Mount Elliott and the time when
its own plant can be blown in. With a new
smelter to pay for, and stocks wanted,
finance must still be a problem. But Percy
Pigott and the Powers don’t seem to worry
half as much over this nigger on the fence
as some of their faithful followers do.
* * * *
Charters Towers feels no better. For the
first five months of this year it paid only
£6484 in dividends and made calls amount-
ing to £5OOO. Bonnie Dundee is the latest
disappointment. Speculators had the idea
that the big make of stone in No. 4 near
the shaft would continue. Unfortunately a
fault was met in the sink, and the western
end of No. 4 pinched. Clarks and the
Papuan are not finding rich bottom levels
either.
A smart Melbourne crowd, led by A. J.
Cleveland, is out to test geologist Montgom-
ery’s opinion about the Ben Lomond and
Great Republic tin formations in North Tas-
mania. Up to 1892 the Great Republic
crushed 1500 tons for 181 J tons of oxide.
Judged on a percentage basis this stands up
to the collar, but something more is needed to
shove along a co. witli a register of 150,000
shares like the Ben Lomond-Republic of to-
day. The start is hopeful: a new shoot was
run into at 425 ft. So far as developed it
measures lift, by 30ft. by 90ft., so it has
contents of, roughly, 3000 tons. If the shoot
pans out 15 p.c. dirt, as loyalists allege,
sufficient profits will be forthcoming to test
the large parallel formation on the same
lease and give the Ben Lomond a decent
trial. The co. has bought the plant put up
at the Penzance, North Dundas. Next month
should see the acid put on the prospectus
literature.
* * *■ *
The Lyell Blocks Board bravely decided
to poke a drill down after the shoot of ore
that is supposed to have been squared off by
the Lyell Co. on its boundary at about
1200 ft. As things have gone, it looks like
hari-kari, for the ore, instead of coming out
bornite, is speckled Conglomerate. Meantime,
punching north in the 1300 ft. drive, the co.
is in stuff as tough as jasper, and with no
ore shoeing to take the sting out of the bore
results at the other end of the mine. The
next move, no doubt, will be to bore over-
head to see if the shoot has been skied. And
if it is not found there enthusiasts won’t be
daunted, for then a big fault will have
heaved the shoot in some other direction.
* * * *
The Ml. Lyell Co., which generally finds
it can do the thing better itself, has gone
into the hash-house business now. In order
to provide increased accommodation for the
employees in its mines, it has laid - out a
couple of thousand on a 30-roomed pub at
Gormanston (Tas.), and is going to turn it
into a boarding-house.
Mining is looking up in the Sueck from the
shareholders’ point of view. Last month
there were five dividends and four calls, but
the dividends totalled Os., and the calls only
Bd. The dividends were: Mount Lyell, 25.;
North Mount Farrell, 25.; Magnet, Is. Id.;
Briseis, Gd.; and Itoyal George, Gd.
* -* *•*
The Bruni Island Petroleum Co. which is
looking for oil, in defiance of Dr. Wade, on
a specklet of the Speck, has started its
boring. The plant can go to about 3000 ft.
The rough-up between I funster, of the
Tasman and Crown Lyell Board, and John
Nicholson, of the still flotation process, was
a willing go. In the end John was pushed
away because, although holding 205,000
shares against the chairman’s 32,000, he
hadn’t taken the precaution to see that a
majority of the shareholders would vote
his ticket. Dunster therefore remains in
possession. But though he may win a round
he can’t win the fight.
* * *■ *
That Bendigo is feeling the pressure of
higher wages and lower call-power is mani-
fested by the smaller number of mines work-
ing. The following shows the gold won in
the first five months of each year since 1911,
and indicates a horrible slump of late: —
1911 . . 71,1520 z. 1914 . . 84,2350 z.
1912 .. 69,3450 z. 1915 .. 48,0820 z.
1913 . . 65,7700 z. 1916 . . 34,5680 z.
The jump in 1914 was due to the New Chum
Goldfields, which raked up a rich patch
after long years of call-paying. At present
Catherine United is the gamble of the dis-
trict, and if a few plum-pudding specimens
came in to sweeten up the big formation the
lively crowd behind the mine would at once
set things humming. A lot is made of a
3oz. return by some tributors at the
Clarence, but the crushing was a drop in
the waste of barren quartz showing in the
mine. To give the field a lift Minister
Livingstone has donated £2OOO to the Tam-
bour-Major portion of the district; and that
is good policy, for only a lucky hit on the
side-lines will win back the investor and the
punter to Bendigo.
Mine-manager Gullock is back in Dayles-
ford after a turn at. Ardlethan, and the
N.S.W. miner hopes that Daylesford will
keep him. lie is again noisily hoeing his old
Nuggetty Ajax patch. Behind him is opti-
mist Vince, who is betting on early divs.
Well, the mill is on the rattle, and will soon
determine whether the vertical make is the
real stuff or only the brummy mixture with
which Daylesford contented itself until the
Ajax struck its decent shoot.
ir * * *
The Wallaroo and Moonta directors have
done the decent thing by their men in re-
funding the 20 p.c. reduction of wages made
during the last quarter of 1914. Copper was
then down to £55 or under; and the em-
ployees “to prevent the closing down of
the mines, promptly and loyally met the
emergency by consenting to forego a portion
of their wages.” Now that prices and mar-
kets are quite otherwise, the co. makes it
up again. The amount is about £14,000.
* * * *
Kampong Ivamunting directors begin well.
Having now got into regular production
and tested plant and borings, they write off
£2OOO to cover depreciation of dredges and
£4500 to provide for the return of capital.
“As it accumulates, this fund,” they say,
“can well be applied towards the acquisi-
tion of another property or to investments
in other mines, so that at the end of 4’
life of the existing property [calculate , ‘ t
10 years] the co.’s original eapif' . |jj
either be represented by other re’’
dueing investments or be intact f ... ~,l H * f
its shareholders.” The sales fl - -j.
etc., for the half-year bro>' ht • aqo'
Working exes, were
tisation (the sinking f>’ nd before mentioned)
and depreciation absorbed £7756 = 30.6 p.c.
Thus .>G.< p.o. w tS available of the gross
earnings for ime d} a te distribution. The
directors say *.
, lh# close of the half-year [February 29]
. ? 9‘ r jrs have authorised the payment of a first
dividend of Is. 6d. per share, absorbing
,r * and it is their intention to make further
dividend distributions quarterly hereafter. The
Pr ofits for the first three months of the current half-
year will be greater than was anticipated, owing to
the high price ruling for metallic tin, and a divi-
dend at an increased rate 'may be possible. Even
with a decline in the price of tin to about £l7O
per ton, however, the directors believe that the
company can maintain a dividend at the* rate of <>s.,
or 30 p.c. per annum, and at the same time build
up the reserve fund before referred to.
Quickly on top of this report comes the
announcement of a second interim div. of
25., payable July 1.
, The Dalmayne, one of Alec Peacock’s
cos., is busy with its coal property on the
East Coast of Tasmania. It has put in a
500 ft. tunnel, which is alleged to show 10ft.
of hard, clean mineral. A contract has been
let for an aerial tramway nearly three miles
long to carry the coal to a jetty at Picca-
ninny Point, and the tramway material is
now on its w r ay.


Heelings
Est 1818.
Copenfiajfen
j
/
a * «
*HEERIiIG@
Perrtbw®
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
PAULINE et CIE
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Announce Special Reductions in all their
French, English and Pauline Models.
3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George St.
SIGNS OF BILIOUSNESS.
When your tongue is coated evenly all
over with a whitish-yellow color and your
breath is bad the chances are that you are
bilious. If you also have indigestion, con-
stipation. headache aftd a general ill feeling,
there is scarcely a doubt about it. Your liver
needs attention.
Harsh cathartics which purge violently
and then produce a re-action only aggra-
vate the trouble. Gentle assistance is what
nature needs to establish regular habits of
health, and Pinkettes, the little pink laxa-
tive pills, free from harmful or habit-form-
ing drugs, meet the requirements most admi-
rably.
Send for a free trial sample to the Dr.
W illiams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, mention-
ing The Bclletiv Pinkettes are Is. a
bottle at all medicine dealers. —Advt.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG* HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
Cream
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 12, 1916.
Xly Heap. Akini.—
It is good uews that old friend Dick
Nevill, most tactful and astute of Governors’
Helps, has come in for a tidy income. Lord
Dick was too fond of backing a horse to
take heed of the morrow —so the morrow
used to bring its troubles. The surprise is
that the Marquis had so much to dis-
tribute amongst his numerous family. Twice
married, the old gentleman had about 13
sons and daughters. But some of them g<*t
to the Dream Shore first. The beautiful
twins. Rose and Violet, had tragic deaths —
one after an agony of illness; the other of a
gunshot wound.
Hughes Onslow, who went under in the
Jutland sea fight, was a brother of the loud-
voiced Captain Hughes Onslow who briefly
disturbed our Navy Board with his anti-
Australian attitude and now holds the
helm of the Revenge iu the North Sea.
Another brother, Xlajor 11. 0., a noted hunt-
ing man, was killed in Flanders last year.
They claim kinship with the sheep-growing
elan at Camden.
George Rex hung a C.B. round the collar
of Fleet Paymaster Share a few weeks ago.
He is our old friend who liked Australia so
well that he stayed with us for years as
private sec. first to Viking Rawson and then
to G.-G. Nortlicote.
Captain Verney only returned to the staff
of his old chief. Chelmsford, after severe
damages in France had made the doctors
put him on the shelf. A bullet through his
l ight thigh, followed by appendicitis, brought
our old acquaintance to the Border Land.
When the fiat, “Unfit for further service.”
was pronounced, Verney accepted the billet
of Indian Viceroy’s Controller of the House-
hold. He can take things easy. Four mere
A.D.C.’s obey his word and innumerable
Indian vassals salaam outside his door.
At last Lady Chelmsford must be happy.
It took 60.000 men to guard the vice-regal
journey through part of her Arabian Nights’
kingdom a while ago. The old petty
jealousy of the Denmans is now drowned in
a sea of cloth of gold. Joan and Ann
Thesiger, the two oldest girls, are “out”- —
though dancing men even iu India must be
pretty scarce.
In February.* 3911, when the Prowse-Brady
wedding disorganised the traffic near the
Town Hall, it was noticed by the supersti-
tious that the “lucky” orange blossom was
absent from the bride’s finery. Diamonds
galore and a black opal iu the pendant given
by mother (Xlrs. A. J. Brady) were hung
here and there. Local society—there were
nearly 300 wedding guests- -loaded Bertha
Brady on this eventful day with duplicates
of everything, from ropes of jewels to butter-
coolers. Now gallant sailor Prowse, skipper
of the Powerful when all this riot of money
tossed round his bride, has gone to the Deep
for ever. He was in elm ,r ■ of the Queen
Xlary when she sank with a wound in her
heart.
lias our old friend the aesthetic young
Flag-Lieut. Fisher—lately Captain—gone
down in the North Sea fight? He was here
on Admiral Poore’s staff, but hated the
society bear-leader tricks expected from a
Hag-lootenant in these waters, and got back
to sailor jobs. There was a reported en-
gagement to a young daughter of the landra
Greenes, but it melted into thin air. Lady
Poore used to call him the most unselfish
being on the premises.
The woman six-o’cloeker can preface her
Song of Thanksgiving with a generous word
for the Liquor leaders. In a scamper round
the (lolling booths one never saw women
worried or waylaid as they arc when Smith
fights Robinson for the “constitooency.”
Large and prosperous-looking brewery per-
sons merely rushed their lot to the
booths in cars. Leaping out, they beard,
more in sorrow than in anger, the steady
tramp of the six o’clock brigade.
XVitli her eyes glued on the goal—usually
a rabbit warren, roofed with galvanised
iron—woman occasionally took her whole
family to the burrow. . Fortified with bun.
it waited at the entrance, awestricken by a
steely glint in mothers eye which it wasn’t
used to. She was giving a final admonition
as I passed: “Yous drop the baby on that
kerb, an’ I’ll smack ther lot o ’yer when
1 done me vote!”
The last-hour talk about Russia’s mag-
nificent advance on tea had something to do
with clinching the matter —if one can judge
from chatter amongst Our sex. Curiously
enough, the parsons didn’t seize the Bear’s
hug of Austria as a teetotal weapon. In the
iirst place they probably knew that somebody
would ask them awkward questions about
the wine-bibbing French at Verdun; and in
the second place they might have had still
more awkward quotations thrown at them
from that very striking book. “An English-
man with the Russian Army.” He didn t
find it all tea, at any rate.
How undiscriminating is the grim Reaper!
He reaps the “bearded grain,” as the poet
remarks, and “the flowers that grow
between.” One of these latter, reaped last
week in Spain, was Xlrs. Degen, who before
her marriage was Xlary Dailey, youngest
child of the late W. B. Dailey, Iv.C. She
was a beautiful, joyous little woman, exu-
berantly healthy and spirited, who had won
a fair reputation as an artist. On several
occasions she had had pictures hung in the
Salon. When the great war started Xlrs.
Degen was living in Belgium with her hus-
band and eight-year-old son. They fled
before the invaders into Spain, and there,
in Grenada, she succumbed suddenly to
peritonitis.
J. S. Horsfall has passed away from his
flocks and herds at the age of 70. The
length and depth of the Widgiewa wool made
the old man a power in pastoral affairs. A
son married one of Edmund Fosbery s
daughters—the lady with the placid expres-
sion and the chin-strap millinery. A
daughter left Rupert Carrington a widower
years ago. Now her son, fighting in France,
is next to Uncle Carrington’s Barony. The
Lincolnshire extra goes past the nephew.
Joynton Smith, with the Areqdia and the
Carrington and the Hydro at Xledlow and
the Imperial on his hands, still finds himself
unoccupied, so be is taking over the Carl-
ton, the new place in Castlereagh-street
where tea-parties discuss the latest crino-
lines.
The Welfare Exhibition folks toddled up
to Government House the other grey after-
noon. One member of the party, photo-
grapher Friend (of Kerry’s), was heavily
laden with a portentous book of views.
XVhen the clock chimed four the fortress
gate (it’s mostly glass, really) swung on its
hinges. Then the great advance began.
Committee magnates of the Free Kinder-
gartens made a solemn trail round the draw-
ing-room, pounced on the hand of his Ex.,
seized Lady Edeline in the same way, and
sank into seats. John Xlaekay then unloaded
his compliments to the Stricklands for their
interest in the kiddies’ recent show. The
tome was presented to his Ex. at this crisis.
Peter Board retired to a sofa to sit alone
with his new C.XLG. Dr. Philip Jones,
Xlrs. Frank Davenport, general sec. Ellen
Desailly and the ’Xlurkan Elsie Simpson,
of Go-lumbia ’Varsity, were lookers-on.
Soldier Finn handed the company to the
Presence, and a lively party of juvenile
tennis-players came in from the garden when
the cakes were served.
You’ll get with
this the photo, of
XI is s Soubeiran,
enthusiastic joint
lion. sec. of the
French - Australian
League of Help.
This Society, which
says, as we do,
“Vive la France’’
has done extraor-
dinarily good work
for war widows and
orphans in that
stricken land, and
is still doing it.
Its pioneer worker
is the ardent
patriot whose pic-
ture is enclosed.
Why? “I am an
T . orphan of the
I ranco-i russian war,” says Xliss Soubeiran.
"Who then can grieve more sincerely than I
for the sufferings of my countrymen?”
A toddler when the Huns entered Paris,
her father dead, her mother gave her life
to nurse a wounded soldier who was dying
alone, of typhus. “At that time all was con-
fusion : there was no organisation like the
Red Cross, and typhus raged amongst our
wounded. We had fled with our mother to
cheap apartments, for we had lost every-
thing. But in the attics above were those,
like the dying soldier, even poorer than we.
Xl.v mother went upstairs to help, and caught
the virulent plague. They found her dead,
my elder brother and sister, toddlers also,
playing with sabot on the floor. Friends
came. They each took one of us. I was
taken with refugees to Switzerland So
you see reason in my feverish desire to
help my countrymen now that our old
oppressors are again on French soil.”
Colonel Hayes, of the Duke iff Cam-
bridge’s Own. caught a little C.XLG. the
other day. Hayes is an Australian, who
married a daughter of the late Hussey
Xlacartney, a militant XTetorian parson of
a former generation.
“Trooper Bluegum” sends a eooee —from
England now : —•
A scratch team of Anzac footballers, only just out
of hospital, astonished J. Bull by their performance
against Wales and the North of England. Then
at the first faint breath of Spring they started out
with the willow. Bexley Heath C.C. challenged the
Abbey Wood camp. The locals were surrounded by new
flannels, a brass band and admiring friends. The
Australians strolled along in their army boots and
old Gallipoli uniforms. It was Easter Monday—the
day' before Anzac Day—so we could only get a
scratch team (mostly footballers), as all the officers
were on duty. Some of our boys hadn’t handled a
bat since war broke out. But they mopped up
Bexley. And then they remembered they had apolo-
gised for bringing such a weak team! It was like
taking candy from a kid I Scores: 42 for
Bexley—l9B and sundries for us. The locals fin-
ished handsomely, though, buying many, many long
beers for Australia after their surprise had cooled
down.
Invitations to dig
reached a few offi-
cials last week.
The exercise is in-
tended as a re-
minder that 100
years ago . our
Botanic Gardens
were just evolving
from the scrub.
Premier Holman
does some spade
work on this occa-
sion ; hitherto his
Government has
been merely an
axeman. Even the
beautiful tree in
front of the Con-
servatorium is now
threatened. J. 11.
Xlaiden was of
course in charge of the Centenary celebra-
tions. Next year he may celebrate his own
eoming-of-age as Gardens Director. For
15 years before that he had been Curator
of the Technological Museum and Super-
intendent of Technical Education some of
the time.
Mrs. Codrington. who died last week after
a short tussle with pneumonia, was the
widow of Alick Codrington, a former X. S.
Wales pastoralist. She was one of the
Vi vers family, of King’s Plains, in the
New England district. One brother,
George, is getting into khaki on the northern
side. The other is minding the family
flocks.
Kathleen Baxter, who went to England
about three years ago in the Otway, became
engaged to its second officer, Renshaw.
Later on he married the Sydney girl. When
war came he was “attached” (I think that’s
what they call it) to the Navy on active-
service conditions. Now the news comes
that he was killed on the Defence in the
recent North Sea fight.
For the Voluntary Workers’ Association’s
concert at the Town Hall on the 21st
Rafalewski—fiddler and pianist—who has
played to half the crowned heads of Europe
and Asia since he left his old home in Ben-
digo, assists the company. With him is his
Australian wife, Lili Sharp, whose soprano
was uplifted at the Kubelik concerts in
1 .ondon.
Newly-knighted Surgeon-General Wil-
liams, now on his way home, has left his
other half in London. Mrs. Williams is
a sister of Monty Severn, of Sydney; her
mother also annexed a knight, James Stans-
field, who used to be an English XI.P. Only
daughter Gwen Williams has been on the
stage some years; she got her push-off with
Xlatheson Lang in “Pete.”
A millinery note from Egypt:—
The Prince of Wales sets the fashions for our
officers in Egypt. Anyway, for some of them. He
made his first public appearance here when he in-
spected us a few weeks ago. The only things I re-
member about him were his horse and an osprey he
wore in his helmet. It was half Scotch thistle and
half pen-nib wiper. General White, the Adjutant-
General, a grand old man, came in a slouch hat
like I wore on Sunday mornings when I mowed the
lawn. But if General White hadn’t noticed the ab-
surd pen-nib wipe others of less consequence had.
I was waiting on the railway station at Ismailia
(where H.R.H. has his residence) two days later,
and a large, outsize colonel walked on with a tiny
osprey in his helmet. I turned Republican on the
spot.
With never-failing optimism Miss Czay-
kowska refuses to believe that the difficulties
in the way of sending clothing to her be-
loved Poland can last much longer. So she
and her band of workers, afire with their
leader’s enthusiasm, are still busy re-making
old garments, fashioning new ones, and
packing them all ready for the earliest pos-
sible shipment. Fashions don’t matter at
the sign of the Polish eagle in Hamilton-
street. If auy old garment is », lm K •
your wardrobe take it there, and the od B
m charge will receive r „„ wit 1 „n.fiX
smile and the garment with all thellr
tilde of her Polish heart.
The feminine mind was dazzled at
noble self-sacrifice of the
I ercy Hunter in retrenching himself J
the Government service. The
immigration official’s Great
to last five years. After that it’s going ll
depend upon which party is in *
whether Mr. Hunter hangs up his hat L
the public service again. For the term
mentioned the volatile Percy will be organ
ising secretary of the Liberal and p ro g r "
sive Association—on a salary, it is said, 0 f
£l5OO a year. The Holman partv. which
has showered kindness on the new libera
apostle, is pulling itself together after the
blow.
Wiilie Lester (father is an English
Colonel), who married pretty Eily Reid at
Ivatoomba, means to motor his bride through
the best-looking roads in this State. 6
War Chest Day is .Tune 30. Buttons will
he sold for anything from a shilling to a
thousand pounds.
The other morning the learned Xleredith
Atkinson told the Study Circle (which had
taken its grey matter to Government
House) that present-day woman had a lot
to be thankful for. The damsels of the middle
ages not only spun the yarn, but likewise
ploughed the soil when their legal lords gave
the order. After the chat a lady arose and
inquired in icy tones why men still sold
tapes in drapers’ shops. The orator shook
his head. He didn’t know. And the click
of knitting-needles—the Strickland girls
leading the chorus —fell upon the listening
ea r.
Xlay, a daughter of the Arthur Ways, of
Neutral Bay, said she would to Harry
Stuart Angus, of the same waterside, oil
Saturday afternoon. The bride was beauti-
fully garbed in gossamer drapery with tons
of Limerick lace on top. A white velvet tail
hung from the shoulders—like an angel’s
wing, only much longer. Orange blooms
held the tulle veil with diamonds glistening
like dewdrops in front. Three brides'-
maidens, panniered and resetted like Dolly
Vardens. tripped behind the Limerick-lace
lady. Basso Charlie Smythe sang something
at the finish.
E. Gard Trouton, a prominent Allies’
Day committee mail, came down from the
Blue Hills for the big wind-up corroboree.
His friend, A. L. Blythe, another hefty
worker—his brother, by the way, belongs to
the Gloucesters, who did some trench storm-
ing in France last week —isn’t back from a
Xlaoriland trip yet. Of £143,500 handed
out to our Allies, a big whack, £57.000,
went to the Poles.
Xlrs. W. XVeston. who owns one of the
handsomest mops of titian hair in our Best
Suburbs, has gone off in the Niagara. She
hopes to meet hubby, a surgeon on active
service, somewhere on the other side.
St. James's verger had to dust the has-
socks on Saturday for the wedding of lima
May, whose father used to be a manager
in Anthony Horderns’. The ’groom.
Horace John Cornish, is a son of a school-
inspector. Autumn leaves and white posies
and choir-boys trimmed the event. The
dainty little bride’s white satin shimmer
was covered with terraces of Brussels net
embroidered in silky texture. The cake
was eaten at Sargents’.
A wail comes from Woolwich-on-the-River.
“We hear,” says a despairing housewife, “of
unemployment amongst women. I’ve been
searching registry offices in town for months,
and can’t find anyone sufficiently unem-
ployed to take high wages and an easy billet
under my roof. There are two complaints
• —my suburb is too dull for Gwendoline, and
my family (of five, including me and father)
is too large for Evangeline. I have sworn
to give out all the washing, except the tea-
cups. and I do the cooking, anyhow, not
wishing to kill my defenceless family with
the efforts of light generals. But the num-
ber of my olive branches (3) puts me beyond
the pale. One haughty handmaid who inter-
viewed me said she considered two people
(wife and hubby) a reasonable family.”
What we can do if pushed to it, is illus-
strated by the work of British women in
laboratories under Government direction,
and in herb-growing to supply druggists,
who formerly imported (good old easy-
going Imported) such things from the
enemy. Here, where the chemist is getting
hard-pressed, there’s a great opening for the
same kind of job. It is only waiting for
some one to press the right button.
X'erbrugghen’s string quartet made a
stately progress through Beethoven and
Haydn at last week’s Chamber concert. A
curtain lecture from the Director prepared
the company for its highbrow entertainment.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS L™
JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS, WATCHMAKERS.
QUALITY IN TABLE PLATE.
Hardy Bros. Ltd. Spoons and Forks arc guaranteed to be
the Highest Grade of English Silverplate manufactured.
A specialty is made of Canteens of Silverplate and
Cutlery, a large selection always being available.
EVERY PIECE STAMPED
HARDY Al.
CONTENTS
12 Table Forks.
12 Dessert Forks.
0 Tablespoons.
8 Soup Spoons.
12 Dessert Spoons.
12 Teaspoons.
1 Gravy Si>oon.
1 Soup Ladle.
1 Sugar Spoon.
1 Sugar Tongs.
2 Sauce Ladles.
“01. D ENGLISH,”
Small Size,
£H 10 0
“OLD ENGLISH,”
Large Size,
£l5 10 0
“CHIPPENDALE,” “KINGS,”
£l7 10 0 £lO 0 . 0
“BEAD,’
£lO 0
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
GIVING FULL PARTICULARS.
13 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
THE SUCCESS OF A PICTURE SHOW
DEPENDS MAINLY ON THE PROJECTOR.
That is the Reason why the
POWERS 6B BIOSCOPE
IS FAVORED ABOVE ALL OTHERS,
The Powers 6B is known in the trade ns the “great no trouble I rojector.
Simplicity of construction, absolute perfection of the picture screened,
are outstanding features of this, the latest production of the great
firm of Powers, New York. There are a great many other features a
Demonstration would reveal. If you cannot call, write for particulars and
a descriptive booklet.
The Price is right, and much less than other well-advertised machines.
VE HAVE GOOD SUPPLIES OF CARBONS, ROLL TICKETS 8 SUPPLIES.
UP
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z.
COMMONWEALTH
S 3
I l •
OF AUSTRALIA.
4i per cent. WAR LOAN, 1925.
PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
THE LOAN IS TO BE UTILISED FOR WAR PURPOSES ONLY, and will take the form of either
INSCRIBED STOCK or TREASURY BONDS, at option of Subscriber.
The above Loan is issued under ACT OF PARLIAMENT of the Commonwealth of Australia,
authorising' the TREASURER to borrow £50.000 000, and both CAPITAL and INTEREST will be
a CHARGE on the CONSOLIDATED REVENUE of the COMMONWEALTH.
BONDS and TRANSFERS FREE of COMMONWEALTH or STATE STAMP DUTY and INTEREST
FREE OF INCOME TAX.
STOCKS or BONDS will be accepted at PAR in payment of Commonwealth PROBATE and
SUCCESSION DUTY The Stock is an authorised TRUSTEE INVESTMENT.
TREASURY BONDS issued in denominations of £lO, £lOO, £5OO, and £lOOO, or STOCK
INSCRIBED in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO over £lOO. *
REPAYABLE AT PAR ON 15th DECEMBER, 1925.
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY. A FULL HALF YEAR’S INTEREST WILL BE
PAYABLE on 15th DECEMBER. 1916.
INSTALMENTS payable as follows £lO per cent on application. £l5 per cent, on 15th
August, 1916. £2O per cent, on lftth September, 1916 £25 per cent, on 16th October, 1916.
£3O per cent, on 15th November, 1916.
ANY OR ALL OF THE INSTALMENTS MAY BE PREPAID.
APPLICATIONS must be accompanied bv a DEPOSIT OF £lO PER CENT., and will be received
at any Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, including Rabaul, New Britain, or
may be forwarded through Head Offices and Branches of ANY BANK, STATE SAVINGS BANK, or
any Member of a recognised STOCK EXCHANGE, or any POST OFFICE where Money Order Business
is conducted INSTALMENTS payable through the same sources.
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM ANY BANK, STATE
SAVINGS BANK, OR POST OFFICE AS ABOVE. SUBSCIUPTION LIST CLOSES Ist AUGUST, 1916.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Ist June. 1916
e
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Three Sizes—
-1?2 h.p.
2 h.p.
3 Yt h.p.
The EVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very- simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheei Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
lie verse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
l’etrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, X.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
S/ln h?
Shop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VAUST” on RAZORS,
STROPS and IJIjADES indicates the genuine product of the
'"toStrop Safety Razor Co.. T.td., (11 New Oxford Street,
■npu Ton don.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safety razor, first quality
’Valet’ horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancet steel tested
"Valet" blades, the
whole n handsome
lea th er - covered or
nickel case, lined
velvet and satin
'Tdiiio&D'OtD


A Fine Present for a Soldier Friend
itmwwmu)
"*•1 i»\
I iniuul
Departing for the Front
This Cigarette Case is of Sterling Silver —
engine-turned design—shaped to fit the
pocket* —strong in both catch and hinges—
has smooth, round corners for comfortable
handling.
Very special value at a popular price—
certain to give the recipient entire satisfac-
tion.
Price 35/-
(including’ Postage
to the address of
your friend, or
your own address,
anywhere in Australia.)
FARMER'S SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
Gage Hats
are the Correct Expression of Good Style.
[
Gil
TteWHEML
»«§§ ME®
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to
pense with buttons, hooks, anq
eyes and press-studs in men s ant
women's garments. One smnp
movement «nd the garment 1
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and_ tem-
per? Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper's
or tailor’s. ~
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, < Austra,as,a) ’
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, June 12, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Playhouse was opened with a flourish
of bare shoulders on Saturday night. It was
socially the biggest first-night we have seen
since the war began. As the proceeds were
to be cashboxed for the French Red Cross
all the Governors came. The G.-G. and his
party were in the pen on the right hand and
Governor Stanley and his lot on the left.
War worries, or the climate, have thinned
down our once-plump G.-G. He looked
slender and military in his evening clothes
and a close haircut gave him some of the
aspect of a sheep in October. Lady Helen,
in black, veiled her white shoulders in a
gauzy scarf of petunia-pink. Little Doris
Blackwood was demure as a mouse in
’possum-colored velvet with a grey snood
round her hair. There was a cluster of
khaki uniforms about her chair at times.
The Stanley dame sat in black velvet jug-
gling a twinkling lorgnette—an old lady's
implement which somehow failed to make
her look severe. Her hair was wreathed in
gold leaves and her young face in smiles.
The newest young Gentlielp was in attend-
ance. He wears very jolly Irish blue eyes
and a Charlie Chaplin moustache. In these
sombre days I think these bright young
tradesmen should wear Methody whiskers,
ttnd so tone themselves down.
Gregan McMahon, in the hour of his
triumph, stuttered nervously over his lines,
and the voice of. the prompter was loud
as the band. Melba sat in a centre box
resplendent in black and diamonds and agog
with excitement. She has made a personal
hobby of the new Playhouse. There were
grey-haired soldiers in attendance, and secre-
tary Tommy Cochran hovered like a beauti-
ful bird in the background. He looked pale
and exhausted but happy—oh, so happy!
I must tell you about the special little
boxes at the back of the dress-circle. There
are a dozen or more in a row, right at the
extreme hack of the circle and on a slightly
higher level. If the rest of the audience feel
curious about the occupants they have to
turn right round and stare shamelessly. Even
then the boxes are latticed with hardwood —
which is still new and scented "with the
forest. Whatever may happen later, on this
first occasion the Toorakians who occupied
them sat up and looked the whole world in
the face through the slats. The Mayoress
gleamed behind very round spectacles and in
white satin, while the Madden dame looked
ghastly pale in paddygreen. Lawyer Mar-
shall Lyle occupied a box and bachelor Dr.
Gould, from Toorak. had a theatre party in
the centre circle. He has just joined the
Reps., and yearns to play Othello. Dr.
O’Hara was faithful to the stalls, and
brought his usual large girl-party.
The theatre is daintily fixed. The light is
filtered on to the white ceiling by alabaster
shades, and there is a clean smell in the air
that tells you the Playhouse’s future is still
before it.
The amateur actresses stuck severely to
black clothes of excellent cut, and the first
stage setting of cerise-tinted walls and cinna-
mon-gold curtains provided a real picture
background. One conspicuous “prop.” was a
giant petunia lampshade stretched to a fas-
cinating shape. Some discerning soul said
it had “beautiful hips”—and really it did
suggest the marvellous curves of a head-
milliner when she is corseted in all her glory
at the firm’s expense. The front of the
.stage was dressed in quantities of potted
palm—the potted palm that George Ade con-
sidered to be the hall-mark of fashionable
amateurism.
And I had almost forgotten! The play
was “Man and Superman.”
The State vice-regals are giving an even-
ing party on Thursday. Nothing frivolous,
y’ know —just a family gathering of the
Red Cross brethren and their sisters.
Lady Helen is to pronounce a blessing
next Saturday upon the wonderful steam-
laundry presented to the Wirth Park Rest
Home, in St. Kilda-road. by the employees of
the Colonial Ammunition Factory. This
extra cost over £lBOO to build, and the
money came from wages. It’s a gift to be
uroud of.
fielding to the pressure of their own off-
spring' the family’s kid-connections, the
Leslie Quarts had a pocket-edition patriotic
carnival in tbeir garden. The little Tudors
and Plantag^ ue t s of Toorak came along in
swarms, and ta' e result was that the small-
change ’taken,' \ Vi Sen totted «P by treasurer
Miss Nvillasv, reached to within a trifle of
£75. The cash has b c - en invested in a piano
for the Returned Solo^ 1 ® and
the cheering of the gratified Billjim has
hardly subsided yet.
Mrs. Robert Harper nowai^aJ s puts most
of her Scotch energy into the -South Yarra
Guild of Service, founded last August for
supplying soldiers with anything the guild
can make, collect, buy or otherwise hands
on, working for no particular patriotic body,
but sending supplies along wherever the)
appear to be most needed. For instance, in
one recent month the womenfolk of the con-
cern gossiped so little that they were able
to hand 1000 garments to the French Led
Cross. Mrs. Harper is the guild s president,
which partly accounts for the fact that Lady
Helen dropped in the other afternoon to
register astonishment at the size ot tne
attendance and the visible results.
Miss Butcliard has been telling the
knitters how to make valuable dyes from
native shrubs. At the Arts and Crafts she
showed bags of wool, natural, bleached and
dyed in many colors, with simply-got stains
made from vine leaves, sugar gum, lemon-
scented gum, logwood and native mosses.
The logwood gives a tender lilac color; the
moss makes a warm red-brown.
The Arts and Crafts .are now going
stronger than ever on home industries. Mrs.
Oswald Syme, who is working hard as sec-
rotary, has primitive looms on view to teach
the fretting moderns the virtue of patience.
One is just two richly-carved sticks which
are meant to be stuck into the ground.
There is a precious Maori kiwi mat on
view. I am told that the tribal soul-chauf-
feur used to bless the first strand, and if
the weaving woman got that same strand
crooked or short, she was sure to have her
ankles caned and her best hat jumped on.
Artist Chris Lorimer shows her fathers
plaidie of the Glencairn tartan, woven by his
sisters from wool grown on the haggis-
strewn hills, in proof of how hand-woven
stuff outlasts the years. Miss Duff lias
house linen finished up from the original
flax by a female ancestor in the south of
France. She shows flax in every stage up
to the bleaching green and the loom. They
want to encourage country people to work
up in their own homes materials grown in
their own backyard.
At the Arts and Crafts rooms in Clyde
House, women are weaving all the
time, and the mere idler can see them for
sixpence. School flappers are flocking along
to get lessons, the spinning wheel being
for the moment more interesting than the
piano. Nervy women might give the hand-
loom a trial. It is a soothing companion. The
shuttles are like little canoes. Slip one, then
t’other, then “click” the beater with the foot
treadle. It is as regular as the three beats
of the heart, and all the time the pattern is
growing and the colors blending. You
couldn’t help growing dreamy and thought-
ful with the easy rhythm. The A. and C.
membership is only half a sovereign, with
limitless benefits from exhibits and a library.
The directors are also out to instruct
workers in the art of how to sell their goods
when they’ve made ’em.
Courage, sister! The Malvern and Gar-
diner Ladies’ Rifle Clubs met and shot
lately at the targets on the renovated Gar-
diner range. The marksgirls have not got
to the length of tying pink chiffon and ribbon
bows on the sights yet, but the sport is the
best yet found for showing off boots and
stockings. Mrs. Hall led off for Malvern,
and Maisie Howitt, after seeing brother
Alaric off to the war, came for some practice
for the same triumphant team. Mrs. Cherry
was the bright shooting star amongst the
defeated Gardiners.
Dr. Pat Leary is showing his cheery face
on the Block again after doing much hard
hospital work at the Front and fighting
rheumatic fever, pneumonia and typhoid on
his own account. Having beaten that
selection, he is barred from further cam-
paigning. Melbourne pals have been dining
the returned with great enthusiasm, and Pat
retaliates with after-dinner stories which
are re-told later at feminine tea parties—the
usual terminus of all good stories.
Some of the boys in a battalion which has
just sailed wei*e musical themselves and had
famous songsters for relations. The result
was that their camp concerts were first-
grade affairs and drew such swarms of sav-
ing civilians from town that the last- few
functions had to be placarded “For Soldiers
Only.”
Mrs. Peter, of Glenloth station, is in town
proud in the possession of knitter’s cramp—
a very honorable complaint closely related
to writer’s cramp. Mrs. Peter’s attack was
brought on by growing a dozen pairs of
socks a week for 17 months.
The first lady major in Australia is
Matron-Major Richardson, an Australian
uurse who is sister to a military officer. She
has had two trips to a place where the war
crackles briskly, and is now inspecting mili-
tary hospitals in the Commonwealth. Her
official upholstery for day wear is black and
gold, with purple touches, and there is
another gorgeous thing for the evening.
A returned warrior chants a Te Deum of
bis own about the work done for the sol-
diers in the London House of the Roths-
childs. where discharged warriors are pre-
sented with new outfits. The gorgeous recep-
tion rooms are filled with tables on which
are dozens of everything, and the battle-
worn soldier marches round with an attend-
ant and makes his own selection. One of
the Rothschilds, Mrs. Soiyan, is in charge,
with a staff of pretty English girls.
Eileen Williams, solicitor Morrice Wil-
liams’s only lambkin, has left for port o
London under sealed orders —something to
do with serving the Empire in a different
frock each day. A few years ago the pink-
cheeked damsel commenced a Paderewsking
career at the University Con.; but the in-
spiration faded early, and latterly most of
Eileen’s working-day had been spent at the
Glaciarium or on the Block.
Mrs. A skin Foster is convoying a trio of
daughters to London via ’Murka. She says
she wants to see son Ormond, who has
decided to do his bit -with the English instead
of falling in with the Australians. I always
suspect when I hear of this nowadays that
the young man has doubts about being able
to keep up with tlie Anzacs.
RODOLFO GONBALEZ, director of the
Italian Grand Opera Co. which Marlow has
engaged.
Adelaide’s official communique
Maorilanders have swarmed in the streets for the
best part of the week, and about 800 of them were
guests of the Cheer-Up Society at lunch on Tuesday.
Incidentally, one generous member—a lady—stood
the whole financial racket. Apart from the lunch
the Maorilanders found plenty of amusement—to the
great profit of this little Paris.
On Wednesday last we welcomed Lieut. Throssell,
whose V.C. was gazetted to the credit of Westralia,
because he was serving with the 10th Light Horse
from that State when he won it; but he’s South
Aus. this far —lie was educated at Prince Alfred
College. Port Adelaide shook him officially by the
hand when he got off the Indarra, and then his old
school took him in hand. Past and present head-
masters and Premier Vaughan (an old P.A.C. boy)
were responsible for the speeches, which were cut
to a sane length.
Lieut. Leslie Harvey has won the Military Cross.
He and his brother —sons of the late James Harvey—-
enlisted in the early days of the war. The Military
Cross one has just been married in London to the
third of the Edwin Thomas daughters. She’s a niece
of the late Robert Kyffin Thomas, of the Register.
The Lady Galway Gift Book, proceeds of which
are to go to the Belgian Relief Fund, will soon
be on the bookstalls. The work—literary, artistic
and publishing—has all been done locally and
gratuitously.
That fine old picnicking craft, the Governor Mus-
grave, has been sold to the Commonwealth at £2OO
less than the £6OOO which the State Government
originally asked for it. Officially its chief use has
been for lighthouse inspection—in which the State
has now no part—but it has proved useful in many
other ways; and that’s where the social interest
comes in.
Dr. T. G. Wilson has got back into khaki, with
the rank of Lieut.-Colonel, and gone on transport
duty. He was in Egypt in the early Gallipoli days
and had his share of illness.
Died last week, Henry Jacob, the surveyor who
prepared the plans for our National Park at Belair.
His uncle, by a coincidence, helped to prepare the
plans for Adelaide. Uncle was on Colonel Light’s
staff.
“Tommy” Ryan, the politician who demands con-
scription, has announced his intention of asking
Parliament to appoint a Racing Board of Control
and likewise authorise a half-crown totalisator. It’s
a curious mixture —sort of “Give me liberty or give
me death and half-a-crown on Staggerjuice for the
Hurdles 1”
Lieut. D. L. Davies, a one-time Renmark man,
has been awarded the Military Cross for “cutting
through about 80 yards of barbed wire and_ getting
right up to the enemy’s trenches in an important
reconnaissance.” He was holiday-making in England
when war broke out, and enlisted there.
A passable imitation of Noah’s deluge washed away
a good deal of the support that Red Cross Button
Day could otherwise have counted on; but even so
the takings were something over £l6OO.
Esma Inglis Clark, daughter of the late
Judge Clark, is now in San Francisco,
whence she sends news of her *.
to a Mr. Silva. Details are proS uf 1 1
by the happy Tasmanian lady. ater
There, there, you’ll have to put un win
it. Handsome Adonis Philip Schuler n
on active service, is engaged to an Italian
lady, the widow of a Russian count
lias property in Russia and ConstantinonW
also two small daughters, but they’re in
Cairo. * in
The very latest story about heiress AD,.; O
Mall arrived by the last mail. She is w
married to an actor or a doctor, as R um ":
said, but is engaged to one Hal Shenhenl
an Englishman who is lighting i u France
while Marie Red Crosses in London. * ’
Entrepreneur Nigel Brock and Mrs. Brans
combe went to the altar together the other
day. When she came here first with the
Westminster Glee Party Mrs. Brock was
Miss Marie Van Ilooten ; then she married
“Dandies” Branscombe, but last year induced
the law r to untie the knot.
Wilbur Struan Anderson, son of the late
Bob, of ’Change, has an appointment' at
Scots’ Kirk on June 17 with Evelyn
Macdonald —a very pretty girl from Perth
The wedding has no intention of
quiet. Evelyn is going to wear the loveliest
clothes, . pud there is to be a three-volume
wedding feast at . Menzies’. Bridegroom
Wilbur, who was associate to Justice
Hodges, is now in khaki.
Leonora Eddington, one of our real girl
sports, went off with her mother on the
Niagara to Canada and matrimony. Leonora
is to marry Dr. “Snowy” Carr, of 11.M.5.
Blank, and expects her naval man to turn
up at Halifax for the ceremony.
Captain Nigel Prichard, clever Kathie’s
young brother, is back from England. He
was one of the swarm of students who
answered the call of the British military
authorities last year for a hundred Austra-
lian medical fledglings to fill lieutenancies
in the R.A.M.C.; and his services lately
gained him an extra star and a trip home.
He is going to marry Yera Mathews, a Gee-
long girl. As for novelist Ivathie, she is
settled in Melbourne for the time being, lay-
ing the foundations for a few more little
things like her £250 prize-winner. She
may go back to England later on, war or no
war.
“Rosna.” gossiping from London, tells me
that one of the Yerco medical clan of Adel-
aide, Capt. Joseph Stanley to wit, who is
with the Ist Australian Stationary Hospi-
tal, has given notice that he will require a
parson's help shortly. The other sufferer is
Ellis Dorothy AYillis, daughter of A. 0.
Willis, once of Geelong and Perth.
Beryl Atkinson became Mrs. Blits at
Scots’ Church on Monday last. She chose
the dinner-hour for the ceremony; so only
those who skipped several courses were able
to see her wedding gown of satin and lace.
Beryl will go to .Java with her bridegroom.
Dr. Douglas Shields and his wife, who now
dwell in Park Lane, I.ondon, are mourning
the death of their only daughter Marie.
Frank Elliott, the Drury Tmne mummer,
who is such a beautifully-tailored District
Attorney in “On Trial,” is the husband of a
Melbourne girl—Florence, daughter of L. F.
Parsons, of the firm that has been mentioned
so often in the papers lately in connection
with the “black” groceries dispute.
Miss Fabian, the “On Trial” lady, gave
a tea party at the Oriental last week. She
wore an ultra-fashionable pink cloth dress
that almost crinolined, and the best dressers
of Melbourne devoured it with their eyes
while their mouths were full of straw-
berries. Though she had suffered a fall
from her horse- on the blocks of Flinders-
street that foggy morning the hostess
seemed gloriously unflurried as she floated
around. Evidently her horse exercise keeps
her very fit. The very English actress
has “adopted” South Africa for the last
two years, and she talks like a modern novel
heroine about her gallops on the veldt.
Rider Haggard and a particularly fascinat-
ing private secretary named Corbett jour-
neyed hither on the same steamer and kept
the other passengers interested.
Hilda Freeman, who was governessing in
Germany at the outbreak of war, will tell
all she knows at the Playhouse on Thursday
and Saturday.
The Yietoria League had poor luck with
its Masonic HaU show of living war-car-
toons. The news of Kitchener's death left
no one Hn a mood for jubilating, the vice-
regal Stanleys withheld their promised
patronage and there were other big j?aps m
the front teeth of the entertainment, which
was mostly long pauses, bunting and bursts
of old patriotic music.
Hardison, a rigorous painter of th e
younger set. showed two studies of a girl s
head in the latest ATctorian Artists’ Sh° w ’
and both were snapped up by that ardent
and critical buyer of Australian art. 1 rp _
fessor Baldwin Spencer. They've made him
a knight, too.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


i
■
li
mm ir :
- i . 5
§
■a
11 • ■
i; 1
illßifi
y m
||h .
4
a ■
«&’ I
I^.l
■K'il
:
• ~
; 1
Ik /
Hi
;■
IE
I j‘
pßbi
IS '**” K
/ j&j
fe
V
S?
* , \
m
■ -
W
*3
' ■ l*
: 1 Ilf
1 •
1
1
»
Pm
:
mm.
■
"fsPßr"***!
' . Wim
. 1-1
:: ”■*
%
w
■ ■
mm
s§f
I?,-?--
an:
Lb*.
* ■
ti
zb
5*
• r?
M:
- ::
Sgfl €llf#.f
wl
%
i ... %
' •
v(S
r\
cX& f^nowfei
ecme a


For all Lung
Troubles
take
Of all Chemists,
1/3, 2/9, 4/6.
Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-two years Angier’s Emulsion is now
universally recognised as a standard approved
treatment for coughs, bronchitis, asthma,
consumption, and for all catarrhal affections of
the respiratory or digestive organs. Angier’s
Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a
most invigorating, tonic influence upon the
general health. Equally useful for children
or adults, it is an invaluable household
remedy for chest affections.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d- postage, and mention this paper
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
the“TOP notch
' w gp x
WH
CURLY HAIR.
imparts Beautiful PER-
MANEIVT CURES. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon became a mass of wavy curls.’’ Result eer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks,
bend 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
■New Wavcurl Co., 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. E. MURPHY, formerly Manager Wb 1 “
Clift's Opal Mines, Proprietor.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Devil”: The Tasmanian devil (Sarco-
philus liarrisi) has a bad reputation as a ferocious
and untamable little beast, and he certainly doesn’t
look amiable; but, according to Mrs. H. L.
Roberts, who has kept him for years in her pri-
vate zoo at Beaumaris (Tas.), and succeeded, for
the first time on record, in getting a couple to
breed in captivity, he isn’t half as black as he is
painted. The first family, by the way, was not a
success, for soon after the young ones came out
of the pouch the old-man devil ate them. At
least they vanished without leaving a hair behind,
and he got all the credit for it. Next time he
was not left at home to walk the babies to sleep
o’ nights, and they grew and thrived all right.
Apart from this eccentricity on the part of Dad,
Mrs. Roberts found the devils lively, intelligent
and affectionate. She keeps, or has kept, pretty
well all the native animals going, from the kan-
garoo and the Tasmanian “tiger” down to the little
opossum mouse, but liked none of them better than
the devils.
*** * .
“Sassafras”: If “Corio” (B. 5/11/T6) is
not very careful he will fall into the hands of the
forest guard out Forbes (N.S.W.) way, or the bush-
ranger, as he is termed on the North Coast, for fell-
ing undersized trees. Meanwhile, if he comes across
to the Coast he will see real trees. This one is the
record as far as my actual working experience goes,
but I’ve seen far better specimens standing. Just on
10 years ago Bill and I worked up a messmate on
one of the southern tributaries of the Clarence.
We took 11 cuts off him, 7ft. long (mortise lengths),
and each cut averaged 45 posts 24in. x 9in. If
“Corio” applies arithmetic to the timber he will
tally 495 posts. The sapling was felled Bft. from the
ground and the tools used were two axes, a crosscut,
a maul and four wedges. There are thousands of
tallow-wood and blackbutt trees standing on the east
slopes of the Dorrigo plateau that will measure
100 ft. long with a 10ft. or 12ft. girth, and as solid
throughout as a pro-conscription argument. One
hundred and eighteen ordinary sleepers were hewn
from an ironbark tree for the North Coast railway line,
which is only a dozen behind the posts shredded from
“Corio’s” shrub.
* ♦ * *
“Amanda”: Re the pawpaw tree and its
fruit. At Geraldton (N.Q.) I met an old chap,
sugar-growing on the Johnstone River for years, who
told me of another quality of this strange plant.
According to him a poultice of pawpaw fruit is a
specific in tetanus. He had a Jap working for him
who carved his foot with a cane knife. A few days
later Nippon showed signs of tetanus. The nearest
medico was called in and presented the usual
chloral treatment. After the doctor left the Jap
grew worse, and the boss' looked round mentally
for a grave site. At this late stage an old gin
suggested the pawpaw poultice, and it was tried
as a forlorn hope. The Jap pulled through, and the
most surprised man in the district was the medico
when he met the patient of Black Mary, M.D.
COM PEN SAT I ON.
TIMID PASSENGER: “I suppose, steward, there is no danger of this ship going down?’’
STEWARD : “Oh, I don’t think so. But if she does, you’ll have a chance of being in the
submarine movin’ picture they’re takin ’ somewheres about here!”
THE ANSWER INDIRECT.
OLD LADY : “Young man, does this tram stop at the ferry wharf?”
CONDUCTOR: “Well, mum, if she don’t we’ll ’ave the swim of our lives.”
“T. 8.” “Corio’s” (B. 11/5/TG) red gum
that split out 134 posts was a walking-stick com-
pared with a brigalow that I and my mate felled up
on the Murgon (Q.) scrub lands. When split up it
guve us 361 sin. posts and 121 palings; length of
posts 6ft.; palings 3in. wide. There are others still
standing on the ground which would deliver an
equal cargo.
* * * *
“Simon”: He “J.G.” and his algaroba
(B. 25/5/’l6). This vegetable is also known as
carob, locust and St. John's bread-tree, and is,- when
it is at home, Ceratonia siliqua. The name algaroba
is also applied to some South American species of
prosopis. Fred Turner, of the Agricultural Depart-
ment (N.S.W.), in 1892 wrote a lengthy illustrated
article for the Agricultural Gazette (Vol. 111., p.
235). If “J.G.” reads this he will see that 24 years
ago a quantity of seeds were distributed throughout
the State, and I know that here and there they
grew into trees which bore beans. A legume that
grows to 10ft. in circumference is not the sort that
enriches the soil, though. Ask the pea-planting
orchardists of Richmond (N.S.W.) what they think!
The algaroba may have points as a good, all-round
performer, but you can knock it hollow in the Aus-
tralian Jmsh to-day. What can beat our own black
bean or maple for cabinet work, wattle and pine for
tannin, turpentine for piles, silky oak for “flower,”
spotted gum for waggon-building, and stringy-bark
for being the mainstay of Australia? In short, I
say “Coals to Newcastle!” until we learn to take
care of what bounteous nature has already done for
us in this respect.
-* * *
“Tropicus”: The man-eater of the high-
lands of Papua, in his leisure, devotes himself to agri-
culture. The spear is laid down for the yam-stick
and the firebrand, without which hi'own brother can
do nothing. Assisted by his numerous sons, daugh-
ters, sons-in-law, sisters, cousins and aunts, the
pi actised murderer marks out the boundaries of a ;
garden in the jungle and the axemen get busy as
inclined. Various rites are next performed by the
old men of the tribe, in order that the crop of food
may be a bountiful one. Various shrubs and vines
are planted alongside the yams, taro, sweet potatoes,
pumpkin, sugarcane, maize, arrowroot, tapioca and
other native foods, in the belief that they will act
as a guard and cause the vegetables to grow vigor-
ously. The jungle plants, being used to life in the
scrub, are supposed to tell the domestic plants how
to please the jungle devils. In some tribes a piece
of pottery filled with charms made by the local sor-
cerer is buried in the centre of the garden, and is
said to be a very reliable aid to the harvesting of a
big crop. The labor is well divided. The men fell
the trees and fence the land, the women plant the
seed after the men have broken the soil open with
digging-sticks, and the children help their mothers
to keep the weeds down. Once the garden is planted
the women and children have to keep it in order, but
any repairs to the fences are attended to by’ the
men. Most gardens are divided into sections accord-
ing to the number of people interested, the smallest
child who, perhaps, only carried an armful of sticks
to the burning-off fires, being given a section in
which all food grown is recognised as his personal
property. The sections are marked with logs and
stumps, and disputes are rare. Birds are prevented
from attacking bananas and pawpaw fruit by the use
of rattles made of bamboo and pebbles, which are
hung in the palms and trees. If these are not
sufficient, the fruit is wrapped in banana leaves, a
proceeding that baffles the attack of anything feathered
excepting the giant black cockatoo. As brown
brother will never do anything systematically, a large
amount of ground is always wasted, and it is only
that the grower is blessed with extremely rich soil
and a plentiful and reliable rainfall that he gets any
return for his labor. The planting period has its
special dances, and the harvesting is followed by
feasts. Every year a new plot of land is cleared, for
everybody has so much ground that he is able to use
only a small fraction of it. The old gardens fall
into grass and weeds, but nobody cares, for there
are millions of acres still untouched.
MISTAKING HIS IDENTITY.
BANDY JOE (to horse after an hour’s jib-
bing): “What’s the blanky game? S’pose
you kid yerself you’re a bloomin’ motor-
car, eh? Giddairp!"
“Tibia” : In the risky old days spider-web
was thought a sure stopper of blood flowing from a
cut. That the superstition is still going was
shown at Euroa (Vic.) the other day when a
young man broke into himself while shaving. To
stop the bleeding some web was put on the cut.
It stopped the bleeding all right, and it also
did away with the inconvenience of further shaving
on the part of that- young man. He died of blood-
poisoning. Probably if he had taken “Cangai s
advice (B. 18/5/’l6) and used brown-paper ash the
result would have been the sanfl*.
IN GRATEFUL MOOD,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve summed it up, and argued con. and pro,
And here's my verdict specified below.
Australia’s child I’m satisfied to be —
It is enough if she’s content with me.
Her drought-smit plains, her jungle, tree and vine,
Her frost-touched heights, the air like draughts of
wine;
Her fern-fringed creeks for fairy hauntings meet;
The matchless dawns her matchless songsters greet;
Her grand old gum-trees from whose branches stout
The homely jackass flings his laughter out
(The message that he preaches from his tree:
“Laugh at your woes, whate’er your woes maybe!”) ;
The teeming life that, as a barefoot boy,
Was my familiar and enduring joy;
Her plains, rocks, caves, her beasts and birds and
trees —•
All these I love, and thank the gods for these!
For that brave time when brighter shines the sun,
When no day dawns in sadness grey and dun,
When on the Bush a softer beauty lies,
Because part-borrowed from a woman’s eyes,
And part from Love —for in the Bush I found
The dimpled god, and in his net was bound,
And still am bound, and feel his touch, and thrill
To the same beauty in the same eyes still!
For favors such as these bright blessings be,
Yet once again the gods have thanks from me.
I am not cursed with any narrow creed ;
No cramping Faith my charities impede—
Broad as our land and gen’rous as her soil
When she responds to well-directed toil!
All men’s beliefs my interest beguile,
Provoke to pity, or excite a smile.
For men themselves, and not their creeds, comprise
Whate’er is sacred, to my Pagan eyes.
The hostages to Fortune that I hold
Are two tall sons cast in their father’s mould.
To them descends of me th’ immortal part—
The brain to think with, and the feeling heart;
Forth to the future with my blessings sent
To learn new virtues and new “sins” invent!
No other life I look for after death—
I shall live doubly while my sons have breath,
And down the years while e’er my line shall last
My ego reach from out the long-dead Past.
For Land, Wife, Sons and sane philosophy
I thank the gods, if gods there chance to be !
N.S.W.
ULOOLA.


MURDOCH OVERCOATS
are TIP-TOP VALUES
When you come to size up your
Overcoat needs you’ll find it an
advantage to choose at Murdoch’s.
Here are two grand values that will
keep you snug and warm during the
wintry days:
Smart Blanket
Tweed Overcoats,
2716
These smart, single-breasted Over-
coats are stylish in cut and well
finished in every detail —ideal for
comfort and good service. Abso-
lutely unsurpassed for value in
Australia at the price quoted. Get
one of these smart Overcoats now.
Bold, Double-Breasted
Overcoats,
These are made in Mid Grey and
Dark Grey Mixture Tweeds —roomy
cut over garments, with full lapels,
belted back and ample storm collar.
They will keep the body tempera-
ture up to comfort point and defend
you from colds and chills.
No matter what your requirements
are—we have a size to fit you. Call
and try on your size to-day. Send
height and chest measurements to
Desk R if you can’t call.
T
m
»
rm
X
%
i si i:
If
Murdoch’s
IN PARK
ST. LTD.,
Sydney
“Where the GOOD Hats are.”
A GOOD PROPOSITION!
as
YOUR SODA FOUNTAIN CAN
EARN PROFITS ALL THE
YEAR ROUND!!
You’re missing much, both in volume
of trade and in percentage of profits if
you are not running the Hot Drink
Business. Your Fountain otherwise
lies practically idle all the Winter,
which represents capital at a stand-
still instead of earning.
The popularity of Hot Drinks have
increased wonderfully the last two or
three seasons. It means that if you
cater for this business you can make
a big thing out of it.
The outlay is very small.
The “PERFECTO” URN, as illus-
trated, is the medium you require ; it’s
the best Winner for Trade in the hot-
beverage department yet placed before
the public.
The whole method is wonderfully
simple : you just drop into the cup of
boiling water one of our flavoring
Cubes, stir and then serve as delicious
and nourishing a drink as it is possi-
ble to produce.
1 Gallon Handsome Nickel-plated
Hot Water Urn, complete with
Taps, £l/5/-
Boz. Tin Beef Tea Extract.
Boz. Tin Celery Bouillon.
Boz. Tin Chocolate Bouillon.
Boz. Tin Tomato Bouillon.
1 Quart Bottle Coca-Cola.
34 Doz. lOoz. Beef Tea Mugs.
THE LOT COMPLETE WITH
URN, £2/10/- CASH.
There’s big business to be done,
and you ought to see to it you get
your share.
“Speed up” and get into it.
Write us at once if you are inter-
ested. We’ll supply you with full
information.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, PERTH.
\k t\ : V H
v % 11 #
ii i
,
*:*■/■;■
WfM
%Aim
■m
>v"'
;,///«//////" /^///w,,/^///,////^
V/Z/W/z///////
The whole world of instruments .... that
yield you not simply pleasant, indeterminate
sounds, but potently recognisable tones.
15he AEOLIAN-VOCATION
•‘CALLS FORTH HIDDEN BEAUTIES FROM YOUR RECORDS.”
The Evolution of a “ Soul in an Instrument.”
From the dim beginnings of a great conception to the consummated
triumph of its achievement it is a long journey. But to-day it is possible
to S back from the Aeolian-Vocalion (that last link in the evolution of
the Disc Machine) and see —the Talking Machine.
ovp 2 nne The flaws of unco-ordinated parts are
gone The lack ot nicely dilcriminated character differences in tone, as
between instrument and instrument—is gone. The old maddening
monotony of set, unvarying records is gone.
What do these sounds mean in a Disc Machine? They mean that
through its Sound-box the Aeolian-Vocalion can develop a tonally perfect
balance hitherto buried in your records.
We invite you and your friends to visit Pianola Hall between 9 a.m.
and 6 p.m. Hear, in a private room, any records you desire —to be played
for you. If convenient, we suggest that you bring with you one or two
of your own familiar records.
PRICE FROM £,25. Moderate Monthly Payments Arranged.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
** Manufacturers of the
World-famous Pianola”
Pianola Hall, 384 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane.


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
&
„<y
4
V
tfORRISs
IMPERIAL
.EYE.
°intmen*
CURES
Obtainable “II Chemists and Stores
BARNET
CLASS
RUBBER
HEELS
Whynbttaxe advantage of the comfort
W ° ffered by Bamet Glass Rubber Heels?
Hf * e sprmgy, resilient-rubber stops all jars
W f nd shocks to the spine and doubles the
W Pleasures of walking. Barnet Glaslßubber
r Heels are' made of the purest fnaferials
obtsamab e>Nvith a view to giving faithful
service. on "Bamet Glass."
Tom All Boot and General Stores.
barnet^glass
RUBBER CO. LTD
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Ding Bat”: Although the Maoriland kiwi
has come to be looked upon as almost extinct, here
where I live at Kopaki the bird is present
in abundance. I got 231 acres of bush
down the other day, and since the burn
have seen hundreds of the curious little chaps
about swampy gullies. I caught two different
species, and, of course, let them go again. What
interests me most is how these birds missed being
burnt in the fire, because their holes are not deep
nor so consti’ucted that the inhabitants would live
through such heat.
* * * *
“Six and Eight”: If in answer to
“L.W.G.’s” question (B. 27/4/’l6) it may be cor-
rectly affirmed that the Clarence and its tributaries
are the only Eastern waters in which cod are to be
found, then “Bad Australian” (B. 23/3/’l6) may be
sure that in those waters only can cod and eels be
found together, for there are no eels in the rivers of
the Western watershed. The swamps at the head of
the Cox are but a stone’s throw from the headwaters
of the Turon, a tributary of the Macquarie. The
sources of the Wollondilly and those of the Aber-
crombie, a tributary of the Lachlan, are closer still.
In those swamps and the Wollondilly I have caught
eels in plenty, but neither in the Turon nor the
Abercrombie nor in any other Western stream have
1 ever even heard of an eel being caught, and 1
have fished in all the waters particularised for more
years than I care to mention above a Sunday whisper.
* * * *
“ J.A.D.”: The skite about present-day
ox-chauffeurs makes me wild. The new-chums are
simply not in it with the old-timers of the Western
District of Vic. Some 30 years ago, in Camperdown,
or where Camperdown now stands, I saw Jack Powell
take an 18-team up a steep hill on a newly-made
road without a stop for a wager of £25. Two
of his best bullocks dropped dead when he stopped
them on the crest, although he never put a whip
on one from start to finish. But the daddy of the
craft was Long Joe Juice. Here is a couple of
tricks he used to perform, and I’d like to see some
of our present-day conductors try them. He’d place
six sixpences in a line, touching each other, on a
piece of smooth ground, stand off with the whip
(an old-timer, with a 9ft. handle) and flick each
coin away without touching the others. Again, he’d
bore a hole in a tree with an inch auger to a depth
of three inches and flick a traybit out of the aper-
ture With his lash. Although Long Joe could do
things with the whip that looked like black magic,
I never, in all the years I knew him, saw him strike
a bullock with the full weight of it but once, and
that was a horror not easily forgotten. The blood
simply spurted where the thong struck.
* * * *
“Wallaroo”: Pass the recipe to cure kan-
garoo skins so that they look like chamois. I don’t
mind swapping a pair of second-hand grandmothers
tor it.
* # * *
“O’Phimerty”: Let up a minute! If you
are planting an orchard, deep-sinking is lunacy,
because fruit trees spread their roots near to the
surface. The great thing is a stiff subsoil, not too
far down, that will keep the moisture near the top.
Other plants, such as the parsnip, like to delve
deep, and the best results are got by giving them
something to delve for. The solution of the problem
is that plants are like blokes —some like one thing,
some another.
BROTHERS IN ARMS.
JOHNNIE: “Hullo, Jacky, are you going to
the war, too?"
JACKY: “No plumy fear, boss. Me stop
along this country. Fight along all-
same you."
“Casey”: Let’s get things shipshape
before we argue any further about “clam” chowder.
It’s not clam. It’s clamp. Any beachcomber from
Broome to Thursday Island will spell the shell that
way, even if you try to suborn him with a bottle of
Resurrection. For truth is mighty and will prevail,
unless, of course, the inducement to the contrary is
made extra special.
SEN SIT IVE.
MRS. SPEARFACE : “That last fowl you sold me seems to have something wrong with it.
It mopes about by itself all day long. "
DEALER ( confidentially ): “That’s modesty, that is, mum. She’s a-moultin’, yer see, an’
she’s ashamed o' the roosters seein’ ’er."
“Nanoon”: “Tiaki” asks (B. 18/5/T6)
has anyone seen a Chow albino. I have encountered
several around Shanghai and Tientsin and they are
even more numerous inland. I saw a Kanaka albino
in Townsville some years ago and a Filipino ditto in
Manila. Although I have knocked about Japan a
bit I never saw one of these deformities there.
* * * *
“Quandong”: Let me have another chip
at the electric gear for shearing. I feel sure the
make of machine “Barcoo” used was identical with
those I mentioned. And had he happened along to
sheds where I was yakkering the joyous smile would
have been conspicuous by its absence. Anyhow, the
condemnation of the turnout by some of Australia’s
best shearers carried weight with me. As regards
“crook experts and snide electricians” I can assure
“Barcoo” that there was none of the grease-proof
tea-and-sugar-Jacky class where I tested electric
gear.
* * # *
“McNorth”: In point of ferocity and
martial ardor the tribe of head-hunters known as
the Tugeris take the prize in Papua. Their villages
are supposed to be somewhere in Dutch New Guinea,
but all the- natives along the coast from the Dutch
border to near Daru, in Papua, live in con-
stant dread of the frequent raids of these black Huns.
A rumor that the Tugeris are coming will send the
inhabitants of whole villages into the interior in
search of safety. The raiders’ method of attack is
to sneak along in their war canoes and surprise
some unsuspecting settlement. No mercy is shown;
they kill all and sundry. The main object seems
to be the collection of skulls. These raids were so
frequent some years ago that the Queensland Gov-
ernment provided the natives of the island of
Saibai with firearms to protect themselves. Although
Saibai is in Bananaland waters it is only a mile
or two from the Papuan coast. Whites have gone
under to the Tugeris. A dreadful incident occurred
to a member of a punitive expedition which had
met and defeated a party of the head-hunters. The
nigs, made for their canoes, and one European, more
eager than the rest, pursued them across the treach-
erous mud flats, firing as he went. When near the
water his rifle jambed, and he stopped to fix it.
Before he realised what was happening he became
stuck in the mud—sinking. The Tugeris saw what
had happened, and, as there was nothing now to be
feared from the rifle, they went back. The unfor-
tunate white man was waist-deep and quite helpless,
and the Tugeris subdivided him, leaving the head-
less trunk upright in the mud before the rest of
the punitive party could interfere.
“0.5.”: During 1903, on Hughenden (0.1
station, owned by I. H. Frith, close upon 2000
eagles were poisoned, as many as 12 to 14 at a time
around a single lamb. On one occasion 18 were
picked up around a dingo which had been doped.
Hundreds of those birds were carefully measured,
and varied from 6ft. 4in. to 7ft. 9in. Not one
reached Bft. Through Central Victoria, North, South,
East and West Gippsland I have taken many
measurements and found results similar. Those
parties who talk of 10-footers ought to take a visit
to the Zoo or the Museum and study the birds a bit.
* * * *
“W.D.Y.”: “Hay’s” cocky, of Yorke
Peninsula (S.A.), entered for the bad cropping
stakes, must have been an isolated bird. I have
travelled farming districts in all the States, and
nowhere have I seen more up-to-date methods used
than on this same Peninsula. The whole district
could well be decorated for showing Australia the
best way to crop. Last year most of S.A. grew
nothing on account of little rain, yet Yorke Penin-
sula, with little if any more rain than other parts
of the State, produced three-quarters of the total
grain-harvest; and one is safe in saying that more than
three-quarters of the hay also came from the same
locality. Hardly an implement comes to market but
the Peninsula cocky bustles forward to test it, and
tw-o or three of the most successful of the men on
the land there draw fat royalties from implements
they have themselves patented.
♦ * * *
“Melb”: The Victorian aborigines are
now down to 260, and mostly half-caste. They
are spread over about half a dozen Government
stations, all large and comfortable . places. Since
Premier Berry’s time, the rule has been that they
are not compelled to work. Which is quite right.
Our black brother in the days of his prime lived
the life of the English country gentleman; and
having taken war and their country from them, we
at least owe them a life of leisure untroubled by
rate collectors.
“Bulloak”: “Corio’s” best tally of 143
fencing posts from one tree is in the also-rans. I
took 232 all 4in. x 6in. at the smallest end from
a red gum at Strathalbyn (S.A.) some years ago,
but I don’t want to have them on my conscience
again. I’m placing my roll on the red gum
as the toughest of all splitting trees ; but the posts
are dinkum once you have them. Next time I need
some I’ll stand them on the hobs o’ Hell and-see if
the heat ’ll split them. Ordinary persuasion with
wedges won’t.
“Biddy B.”: Nominating a few more
fancy names for waggons, here are some painted
on ships ploughing South-West N. S. Wales: 1.C.U.,
T.C.U.2, X.10.U.8, Right up on Deck, Hook On,
Here We Are Again, The Wandering Home, The
Joker, Wait for Me, Pull Me and I’ll Come, All for
Cold, Cash on Delivery, Hold Hard Ned, U.C.Me,
11.M.5. Never-Get-Stuck, The Blob, Try Again, What-
110 She Bumps, Always Wanted, Brandy Hot, Over
All I Shine, Nil Desperandum, Try and Pull, The
Rambler, King o’ the Road, Got ’lm, Jog Along,
Just What's Wanted, The Dead Bird, Give Me a
Pull, Come at Last, High Rock, Homeward Bound,
The Welcome Stranger, Here She Comes, Clear the
Track, Last Hope, Up She Rises, Live and Let Live,
The Night Owl, Hard Times, We’ll Try Again, The
Plunger, The Great Eastern, Little Wanderer,
Straight Cutter, The Lion, Demosthenes, Welcome
Home, Fair Maid, Lone Hand, Native Pride, Fiery
Cross, Wait-a-while, Morning- Star, Malvolio and
Perseverance.
WILLING TO OBLIGE.
“ Yes’m, and do I ’ave to wait on yer at
table, or do yer do yer own stretchin'?"
“Pint Pot” : When “The Oldest Inhabitant
was mentioning the queer names of Sydney pubs (B.
25/5/T6), he forgot the Honest Irishman, which still
keeps the beer-pump going in Camperdown (N.S.W.).
Others worth mentioning are the Reviver, also in
Camperdown ; the Lily of St. Leonards (called after
a long-dead lubra) on Milson’s Point; the Yorkshire
Stingo, in Goulburn-street; the Cheshire Cheese, in
Elizabeth-street; and the Cauliflower, near the Chow
gardens out Waterloo way.
* * * *
“D.F.” : Why is it that forest trees mostly
fall in still weather ? Those that fall in a gale of
wind are usually on the edge of the timber country.
The big old fellows inside choose a fairly-still day
to topple, and I have heard them come down in the
midst of a dead calm.
THE RUBAIYAT OF BILLJIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Op out! Revalley through th’ chilly a ir
Wakes each bloke’s soul to grouch an’ bleak a
An’ hark! A blarsted N.C.O. now comes ’
To hagravate us more than we can bear!
Last night in dear old Aus. I seem ed to be-
Tarts fluttered round an’ all were good to see
A cobber said, “Jus’ break from ’em a while-.
An’ come an’ ’ave a drink along o’ me!"
An’ as I swanked up to the shrine of beer
A barmaid smiled an’ cooed, “Hullo, old dear!”
Then, as I stretched me arm a bottle burst
I woke, Gorstrewth! an’ found meself still » e re "l"
For each dawn-come revives th’ same old came
And o’er th’ slope the big guns’ greeting came-’
An’, lo! where last night our S.M. had slept
The crib had blewed up in a roar of flame! '
So gone is sleep with all its blissful dreams
An’ come for keeps this life of jumps, it seems
W’ith guards, fatigues an’ Gawd-knows-wot t’ do
Where shrapnel o’er th’ landscape hums an’ screams.
And look! Ten million blokes awake each day-
By night a few of ’em are booked for clay;
An’ this same dawn that sees us full of nark
May take me cobber Mick or me away.
An’ when I think of boys who now are dead,
Past ’appy days, an’ towns we painted red,’
Back in old Aus., an’ laughin’ girls they loved
It makes me think wot kind old Omar sed: ’
Alas, that Spring should vanish with th’ rose,
That youth's sweet manuscript should sudden close-
The lad who lars night in this dug-out sang—
Where drifts his soul this night—who knows?
Ah, w r ell—-it’s no use rousin’! W T ot must be
Just will be. And no prayers of You or Me
Or wimmen’s tears will alter things a bit;
We’re ’ere because we’re ’ere, t’ wait an’ see.
We take our charnce of what is in the pot
Until we are relieved—or bombed or shot;
Look forward to th’ day we’ll one day be
With those whose words an’ smiles we ain’t forgot!
SOMEWHERE.
TED COLLES.


i gualifies.
s-'<
L&k
*£s
C\<£
HIGH-GLASS CIGARETTES
AT MODERATE PRICES.
CIGARETTES
A RE of irresistible quality, they have
an individuality about , them so
alluring and compelling that other
brands seem colorless by contrast.
TkT O O O
UCJU
The Famous
Red PacKet
4 A
1U
STANDARD WEIGHT
NOT LESS THAN 10 for 6d.
of all high=class
tobacconists and stores
throughout Australasia.
o
o
&
-9
-9
<§>
*
A
*
o/
vS'
&
AS
VB
a
■«
0
O
%
*
fS
O
0
Co
C*
Pp
<?>
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
LONDON, ENG.


There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
set;
V
m
JOs-
-6: a
,v
- j' J :
&V)
*?■
V
X:
1
ss^g
&
S\l.
Hi
‘j>-zia>*fe?&>p
8^
Mfe“«
>ClhC<tCY- tniTHrJ
ft
Sxv'Vv^o^y
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
V “HEARNE’S”
Business, Robbery, etc,
“Copabella”- on the tricks of his trade: —
I can strike a light for “Burnley” (B. 27/4/T6)
on the match question. “Burnley” met a philan-
thropist when he bought local safeties at 3d. on
March 2. Local matches were then worth 3s. 9d. a
gross wholesale, and imported English 4s. to 4s. 3d.
The grocer was selling “below the market” —
probably “cutting” to draw trade. “Burnley” had a
good thing, and should have stocked up. As to the
sudden and general rise, local matches are a negligi-
ble quantity in governing the local market rate, the
daily 20 millions being absorbed quickly by a hand-
ful of distributors. Retailers do not buy first-hand
from the factory, but through the “houses,” which
charge “market price.” The latter is governed by
world-parity and the sweet will of the cornerers of
supplies. The factory price is, no doubt, based on
actual producing cost, but the distributor isn’t guided
by that —he buys to make money. About this time
last year there was a sudden inflation of the match
market. Owing to delayed shipments local holders
of the few English matches in bond forced prices
up to 6s. 3d., 6s. 6d. At the top of the boom one
house landed a large parcel of Jap. matches and
started to make a pot, distributing at 4s. 6d. or
so. That was a “scab” trick ; so another house that
had been “saving” against the inevitable fall decided
to “discipline the scab.” It “broke the market” by
offering its over-held stock of English stuff at
3s. 9d.! The investor in Japs, had to come into
line, and the match market once more became normal
or thereabouts. They call it Big Business.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: I see there is an extraordinary
boom in fortune-telling in London ; and the
evidence of a remarkable trend towards the
palmist’s parlor and the den of the
“futurist” had smacked me hard in both
eyes here in Melbourne. In Sydney a youth
shoots himself to verify a fortune-teller’s
prediction; in Malvern (Vic.) a foolish
servant girl, told by a fortune-fakir that she
would lose her reason, worried herself into
an asylum within two months. It’s the war
fever in the blood of silly people. Portents
have become popular, all minds ate a little
awed and unsettled, and the wizards and
witches might provide a fat fund on their
own if compelled to pay tax on their war
profits. I know one woman who boasts of
an income of £lO a week from this source.
She also runs a servants’ registry, but in
another name. The facility with which
she picked up points from the tittle-tattle
of servant girls hanging about her rooms
first put it into her head to turn “futurist.”
It seemed a pity to waste so much valuable
information. Dunder-headed mistresses,
after crossing the she-seer’s hand with silver
and hearing so much of their own private
affairs, do not hesitate to credit the sly
dame with supernatural powers.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The Speck now produces over
2,000,000 bushels of apples a year, and
exports more than three-fourths of the crop.
Yet the first attempt at apple-growing was
not a success. In 1788, on his way
to Tahiti in the Bounty—it was on that
unlucky voyage after breadfruit which
landed him in a 3000-mile boat voyage—
Bligh put into Adventure Bay. While there he
had a patch of land cleared, and planted,
amongst other things, several apple trees.
When the French under D’Entrecasteaux
visited the bay in 1793 one tree was still
alive and had grown to a height of 54 feet.
But it was on its last legs and not expected
to live much longer. Even the local Abo-
liars, who have a whole forest of trees that
were marked by Captain Cook, don’t ven-
ture to point out Bligh’s apple-tree. It’s
a wonder someone hasn’t heaved it in as
proof that the Speck can’t grow apples.
* * * *
The oldest ship in commission is said to be
the Danish Tvende Brodre. She was built
129 years ago, hut, owing to the excessive
demand for anything that will float and
carry, she is still doing a brisk trade in the
North Sea. Put together at Merstal, she
is said to be sound and seaworthy still, ancf
her builders would he pleased to have the fine
advt. if they were not so very dead. Some-
one will go searching for Noah’s old ferry if
the war lasts much longer.
* * * *
“Ses’s” hard-luck story :
We were talking about lucky finds, when a tall,
gaunt person with beer-buds in his whiskers chimed
in eomplainingly: “You talk about luck —lissener
me! I was ridin’ along on a cattle pad, when I
finds a heaper bones, with a swag alongside. Some
men keeper lookout for corpses, and overhaul any-
thing like that. But I was off it. I ledder constable
and a tracker out to the place. The tracker over-
hauled the swag, and in abouter minute he had me
like a corked-up volcano that wants to burst and
can’t. Strike me if that rotten old bundle didn’t
pan outer fortune! There was a bottler gold, a
vvadder sovereigns, and a roller banknotes —wrapped
in shammy and packed in a leather bag—altogether
about £7OO. ’Struth, seven hundred an’ me poor
as wood! That blasted swag’s haunted me ever
since. ’Tain’t decent snakes and gohannas what
does circus tricks about me; it’s swags. They come
rollin’ up, and I keep on tumbling over ’em. An’
the one I’m carryin’ gets bigger and bigger and
clings like a homeless blanky octopus!”
* * * *
Australian public offices are still as
devoted as ever to red tape, but as far as
Britain is concerned the actual and literal
crimson thread has vanished from the ser-
vice. In order to eke out the supply of
aniline dyes and effect a little war time
economy, white tape is being used instead
of colored. This saves about £l4OO per year
—enough to pay 31 members of the House
of Commons.
At a recent packed Town Hall meeting
in Melbourne the confident Larry Itentoul,
D.D., stood up before the congregation and
spoke: “As for the men of Anzac, I have
spoken of them in poetry and in prose.”
And of all that mighty concourse not one
man rose up to tell the holy man with the
shiny dome that he tarradiddled.
Lieut.-Commander G. 11. Dennistoun,
R.N., was handed the D.S.O. the other day
for settling accounts with a Gerhog gun-
boat on Lake Nyassa, Central Africa, in
May, 1915. A son of G. J. Dennistoun, one
of the wool monarchs of Canterbury (M.L.),
he joined the Navy 17 years ago, since when
he has spent most of his time in Australian
waters. When the present stew came to a
bubble he lent a hand to get the main M.L.
force to Egypt, after which he was passed
on to become senior naval officer on Lake
Nyassa.
Birdsnesting on an extensive scale is the
hobby of W. McLennan, who is now lying
ill at a station in the Northern Territory.
Sent out by IL 1.. White, of Belltrees,
Scone (N.S.W.), on a collecting tour, his
idea was to reach Groote Island, which is
chiefly inhabited by a Malay-Australian
cross of quarrelsome reputation. While he
was at King River the local Binghis stole
his food, and he had to obtain supplies at
a mission station. To the missionaries he
told his adventures at an egret rookery
among thousands of white-fronted and
white-necked herons and great-plumed and
lesser egrets, the fowls which yield osprey
aigrettes. Protected against crocodiles by
a blackboy with a rifle, McLennan’s custom
was to wade out of his boat in 4ft. of water,
and take what he wanted. How prolific
the birds are is shown by the fact that
three blackboys ate 100 eggs for tea, each
being an embryo egret with a potential
plume-value of two or three guineas. How’s
that for an epicure’s feast?
At 70, Josiah Symon, leader of the S. Aus.
Bar, has come back right to the “top of his
form,” especially in criminal cases. “Get
is still the motto for an accused
person, just as it has been at any time for
the past 30 years—and acquittal generally
follows, whatever the betting may have been
at starting. It is unfortunate for S.A. that
Symon was not made a Judge long ago. It
always is a pity when the Bar is not dom-
inated by the Bench. The last generation
of Judges Way, Boucaut and Bundey—
had (to put it mildly) a vast respect for
Symon s powers, and the present occupants
of the Bench are not likely to have less of it
—especially as the present Judges had very
little experience of the Criminal Court until
they began to preside over it.
Sydney’s old Parliamentarian, Bobby
Lowe who died Viscount Sherbrooke, has
had his memory revived in London by the
new war-tax on matches. As Gladstone’s
Chancellor of the Exchequer 40 years ago,
Bobby wanted to raise revenue in the same
way, but he reckoned without Bryant and
Mays match girls. They formed a noisv
procession and marched from the East End
to Whitehall, where they waited until
Bobby came out to attend Parliament, and
then mobbed him. Mrs. Casey, who headed
the procession and had the honor of knock-
ing Bobby’s hat off. is still alive and draw-
ing an old-age pension from Bryant and
May.
incent T.”: I’m glad to read that
Chummy” Fleming is still shaking his
knobby fist on Melbourne’s Yarra Bank
these Sunday afternoons. Twenty years
ago whenever I tired of looking' at his
pathetic, unsmiling face, his tragic mous-
tache and the fist that went up and
dowm I would turn and gaze at the dis-
giaceful pile of unearned increment that is
called Melbourne, sleeping placidly in its
smoke-haze, and waiting for Monday to
come and make it richer and more disgrace-
mi. I often wondered whether it would
another Sunday. Surely, if Heaven
had ears for Fleming, the old town would
be laid in ruins! But there it is' still! And
there is “Chummy” over the river going as
strong as ever! In a world that changes
a l too quickly it is good to hear that an
old-established entertainer is still doing the
thing he loves best.
“Viking” makes a suggestion ;
Why not State pawnshops? The municipal pawn-
shops of Paris are scattered all over that desirable
city, and the Parisian in need has no hesitation in
applying to Auntie for a loan, whereas we always
feel nervous about approaching Uncle. They lend
large or small sums at fair interest charges, and
the customer is not afraid of being squeezed. Court
proceedings in the various capitals, week after week,
show what bloodsuckers make this their business in
Australia; and it is most undesirable that the
widow and orphan of any killed or wounded soldier
should fall into their hands. In the days that are
coming there is bound to be serious distress, much
of it among people who have struck trouble through
doing their duty by their country; and we ought
to provide these people with some decent substitute
for the too-frequent three-ball harpy.
“Paddymelon” : If there is a prize g oin „
for fools I beg to enter our saw-millers
Some years gone by there grew in the
Nooza district a pine called sometime.
Nooza, sometimes Maryborough or Queer,,
land kauri. It was one of the m 2
suitable timbers for inside joinery I ev „ l
worked ; yet the asses cut 991 per cent- Z
it for flooring, lining, etd. Result: Nooza
pine is wiped out. Another pine, bunya k
following rapidly in the track of the Nooza
It is really an excellent timber, easilv
worked, straight and true—for joinerv on!
of the best. Yet I will wager that if V 1
lodge an order for it at any mill you like in
Brisbane you cannot be supplied; but send
along an order for flooring or lining boards
and you can pick it out. Even the mills
that cut their own pine and make their own
joinery have not got the brains to use the
bunya. They give you doors of hoop pi ne
which twist like the Devil’s tail during Lent’
A new book, “My Secret Service,” by a
man just back from Vienna, gives a grim
detail of mountain warfare. The city hos-
pital, probably the biggest in the world
with 8000 beds, has 3000 soldiers who have
lost their sight. Within six months of the
day Italy came into the war, Austria had
80,000 men blinded. The reason given is
that in mountain fighting the chief shelter
to be got is behind rocks, and when these
are splintered by shell-fire the wounds are
mostly in the head.
A riian who -had been convicted on his
own evidence was handed a year’s imprison-
ment in Sydney the other day. He stopped
a detective in the street and suggested that
he should be given a drink and a packet of
cigarettes in exchange for information about
an attempted crime. Having been duly
refreshed and smoked, he took the sleuth to
a jeweller’s shop, re-enacted an attempt
that had been made to enter it, and then
announced himself as the guilty incompe-
tent. He told the Court later on that he
had no recollection of the distressing pro-
ceedings. When he comes out again he
should take up some system of memory-
training. Curates may be able to get along
with bad memories; criminals, never.
“Mulapsap”: As one who lived and
labored on the N.S.W. North Cowst for
over a decade, I ask permission to weep
with the crocodile over the woes of the
disappointed dairyman. Says the dubious
Telegraph :—•
A considerable number of district dairymen will
abandon business at the end of June, principally
owing to the scarcity of suitable labor and the
high price that is demanded by unsatisfactory farm
hands. Another reason given for this departure is
the heavy hand the Government has laid on the
industry by recent legislation, combined with the
wearying, monotonous continuity of the calling.
How sad, if true; but of course it is only
.25 true. Of the four reasons advanced,
the only true one is the last, viz., the
wearying, monotonous continuity of the
cow-calling. Other true reasons are care-
fully suppressed. Here they be: The
absurdly high price of dairy-farming land
charged by exploiters, who pose as the
farmer's friends; the extortionate rent
gathered by rackrenting landlords; the
iniquitous practice of selling cows and
heifer calves because of sky-high beef and
veal prices that tempt fools and needy
farmers. Suitable labor is only scarce be-
cause the grasping, squeezing, covetous
cow-cocky will not offer suitable wages in
connection with “the wearying, monotonous
continuity of the cow-calling.” The said
cow-cocky prefers to make cow-slaves of
his own and other folks’ children. Some
dairies are almost entirely run by the un-
fortunate State children; so the State
tolerates child slavery. It is a common
remark on the North Cowst, when farmers
leave dairying, that they leave because they
have made sufficient money to permit of
their taking life easy. Even the S. M.
Herald admits this. What a lovely and
luminous thing it would be if the Herald
and .Telegraph told the simple truth about
cow-cocky conditions of life and labor and
living! What a shock the butter-barons,
the paspalum princes and the cream counts
and their political parasites would get!
“J.F.H.” (London)-: The Australian
League. What’s that? Something, of
course, broad, comprehensive. Nothing of
the kind. It is bounded by the four walls
of the drawing-room of Lady Victoria
Buxton at Princes’ Gate, Hyde Park, Lon-
don. Its inaugural meeting has just been
held there. Lady Victoria is the widow of
Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, a puritanical
British brewer who “governed” South Aus.
for a few years. Lady Victoria thinks it
is a duty she owes to her husband’s memory
to do something for the spiritual well-being
of the backblockers of the Commonwealth.
So she has founded the “Australian
League” to “provide” the money and the
machinery for the purpose. After Bishop
Thornton, late of Ballarat, had started the
proceedings with prayer, Sir T. F. Victor
Buxton took the chair and expressed
pleasure at representing his mother in so
good a cause. Then the Rev. E. A. Colvin,
“late of N. S. Wales,” made a fervent
appeal for men and money to relieve the
spiritual destitution of the backblockers
who were, he said, “far removed from
churches, clergy and the means of grace.
It was impossible, he added, for the Church
of England authorities in the cities and
older settled districts of Australia to make
adequate spiritual provision for their
brethren in the bush, so the only thing to
be done was to energetically circulate. the
hat in London ; and he thought the British
public should part up profusely. in token
of “gratitude for the enthusiasm 8D
devoted loyalty with which Australian
have stood by us in the war.” Others spo e
to the same effect. Isn’t it all humiliating-
First Ivalgoorlie, then Rockhampton, an
now Lady Victoria Buxton’s absurdly-
styled “Australian League”—all witlnn
few days. Is not that a shocking scamß
and a criminal libel on the Commonwealt •
The Church of England is the. richest
religious body in Australia; yet it ney
misses a chance to cadge. But Austral
might reasonably protest against .the nion y
being asked for as payment for its servic
at Gallipoli.
TAKING SHELTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“....and ran for shelter to Danger Bay.”
—Daily paper.
The little ships go up and down and potter to and
fro,
And everything is lovely till the winds begin to
blow;
The ocean’s like a kitten when it’s full of sleepy
grace,
But ugly, old and drunken when the greybeards
start to race.
There’s trade in little parcels to be peddled ’neath
the stars,
And smoky coasters take it to the towns behind the
liars ;
It’s easy in gnjod weather, but you’ve got to mind
your eye
When winter is the piper and the “stand-off” signals
fly.
It’s snug behind the headland, and it’s cosy in the
bay
When big-ship gales are raging and the bridge is
lashed with spray;
Let plunging liners face it if they've got to run to
time,
A wait for better weather in a coaster’s not a crime.
Prom Byron Bay to Jervis the little packets ride;
A message tells the owners: “Taking shelter; safe
inside.”
Oh, each obese director strokes a calm, reflective
chin,
And sailors’ wives sing softly when they know the
ships are in.
N.S.W.
MACQUARIE LIGHT.


LUXURY of COMFORT
Radiant Warmth on
the Coldest Day==!
ELECTRIC RADIATORS
Ensure Brightness and Comfort under
the Most Rigid Weather Conditions.
-
>
g
&
%
We stock G.E. Electric Radiators in various sizes and patterns, of which either the
twin- or the three-glower are the most popular. They are absolutely safe, portable
and odorless and are finished in either polished nickel or copper, which remains
bn g h, VISIT OUR SHOWROOMS.
M
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd.,
—Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE. ;
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646. 2647; CITY. 9576.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND; The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston;
Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


25|-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Rouble Case Huntin
Keyless Watch, full jev
elled, 25/-; extra jewelled,
30/-; 10 years' guaranteed,
Gold-filled Keystone Case Elgin
Lever, £2/15/-; Solid Gold,
£3/10/-, £4.
30
9ct. Gold Three-bar Brooch,
Garnet in centre, 17/6.
m
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Heart
and Ivy Leaf, any name engraved,
7/6.
Dill
■
m
2D
-
9ct. Gold. Half-round Bracelet, richly
chased, £2. 15ct. Gold, £3.
Gold Spray Brooch, set
Pearls and Turquoise, 8/6.
loCt. Gold Brooch, set pure
double-cut Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £4/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10/-
20/-
/
Lady’s Solid Silver
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled, accu-
rate, 20/-; extra quality,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-;
Solid Gold, 50/-, 60/-
75/-
25/-
9ct. Gold Links,
20/-; 15ct. Gold,
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Red
Stones, 22/6.
95/.
9et. Gold
Necklace, set
Pearls and Aqua-
marines or Tqur-
malines, £2.
9ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 10/-;
loot. Gold, 15/-
p *
18ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 40/-
loct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 25/-
18cl. Gold, 30/-
9ct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, 20/-;
loot. Gold, 40/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled,
Lever Movement, £4.
Expanding
£3/10/-
loct. Gold
NQp klace, set
Diamonds and
Pearls, £B/10/-
All Diamonds,
£lO.
9ct. Gold Sou-
venir Pendant,
8/6.
With Enamel
Shield, 12/6.
9et. Gold Links,
25/-, richly en-
graved. 15ct. Gold,
40/-
20 1-
rv
/
Gen t.’s Nickel Open-face
Keyless Lever Watch, jew-
elled, patent adjusted balance, non-
magnetic, dust-proof cases. 20/-;
extra quality, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
25/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
18et. Gold
Ring set 3
Diamonds,
£lO.
1 Set. Gold
Ring, set
Diamonds.
£l2/10/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set
Diamond,
£2/10/-
ISct. Gold
Half Hoop
Ring, set 5
Diamonds,
£5.
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Kins,
£7/10/-
9et. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Red or Green Stones, 23/-
9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and Aqua-
marines, 25/-
loct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Aquamarines or
Tourmalines, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 George Street,
SYDNEY.
30/-
35/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Watch, jewelled, com-
pensation balance, non-magnetic,
30/-; higher grade, 35/-; 10
rears’ guaranteed Gold Case, Elgin
Lever Keystone Watch, £2/10/-;
Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £B, £lO.
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass, / s
21in. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
$
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FDR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A usiralasia. _____
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2 6 posted. Merrie
England, fid. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine's Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly's Art of Boning, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, fid,, AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life. 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics' Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller's Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10 6. Australian Miners' Guide
(simple tests for minerals), S/6. Mahomet's
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, I'3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3 6 posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 16. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d. and 1/6. God and
My- Neighbor, fid. Britain for the British,
fid. How to Read Faces, 1/6. Hoyv to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1 6.
French Polishing and Staining, 12. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1 3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1 2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 12.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Clujomot. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it "exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
subjects concerning l marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
tuture. and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
[•“BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
Prof. Fowier's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide,- 1 '6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. 1/- posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
I S post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 13.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Yamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter. I'3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator. 1-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Datk,
13 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portrait* II- ■
post 12. Electricity Made Simple (new’) 4 V
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2'3 Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, a- Other Verses 1 3
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3 6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes 1/6 ported
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Meia
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks. 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 2o Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking>
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. UR
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical llltr
trations, 2 ti. Aristotle, 36. Adam Lindsay Lor
don's Poems, complete, 1 6. Practical Palmistry
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 26. Secret
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer. 1 All About Incubators, 1/6. -’| 0R ’
can’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees
New Edition. 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary
Sd. posted. Tokology. 7 6 post. Ingersoll’s «°i‘
Sd.. 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), t/
posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posieu
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers
Assistant, 1 6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 post*
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 P oSt /“
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Kecita
tions and Readings, 1 3. Nervousness and xi
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridg
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bou >
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guinea
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos a
Electric Motors. 1 2. Moore’s Universal asms
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cl
bound, 10 6 st . The Secrets of Clairvoya />
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and n>
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of ’,y
Paine, posted Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-uaj-
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney


“Buy this tyre and me with it _
my name is ‘MILES’”
Says Mercury Motorised.
■*?*
&
V?J
n
**T WASN'T christened ‘Miles’in an idle moment.
JL I carry the message of Avon Tyres, and 1 urge
Avon claims because mileage is the first and last and
greatest thing motorists look for in tyres.
“Why? Because long life is only possible to tyres that are
built of the right stuff and built right. Rubber that cuts and
punctures easily causes endless trouble, and must obviously come
to a speedy end ; fabric walls that are inherently weak lead to
dangerous bursts and premature disruption.
“ Fit Avon tyres proven time and again in actual service to
be capable of greatest average mileage—and you find that they
necessarily fill all other needs in the fullest measure. The very
length of Avon Service demonstrates their cut-resisting tough-
ness, sinewy wall-strength and luxurious resilience. The fact
that you get Avon Service at lowest cost per mile is the clineSi**-g
aigument.”
0
r
T
£££>
Agents : N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney
H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne
&
*. -
Note Your Notes with an
ONOTO
Take an Onoto Pen with you wherever you
may be stationed.
It will save you time and trouble and will
make writing under any conditions possible
and easy.
It is the pen that fills itself and cannot
leak.
Price from all stationers, jewellers, etc..
12/- and upwards.
r\
T
v.
3$
British made and
guaranteed by its
makers.
Ask for the Special
Service Model “O,”
made to fit the Uni-
form pocket-
f lelf-Filling - •
, Safety Fountain
Pen
Booklet about the Onoto Pen
free on application to
Thomas de i.a Rue « Lo.
Ltd., 195. Bunhiil Row,
London, L.C.,
or the Australasian Managing Agents/
Norman Baker « Longhurst,
50 York Street, Sydney.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AItABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the bes
cheapest I have ever used.” , .
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale *
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoia in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for tne g -
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price !/-ana tio.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
Jr
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
m<zm
fcierai Kootfcog Mttggr
uim
Hot breezes of summer—driving rains of the off-season—
won’t penetrate
Certain-teed
roofing
This product represents the culminating effort of the largest
manufacturers of their kind in the world—it will give splendid
service and the cost is moderate.
Leading architects the world over specify Certain-teed. Prominent
buildings, large and small—residences, stands, hotels, booths and
bungalows—are roofed with Certain-teed.
Obtain samples from your local distributor. He car-
ries a full stock. Orders will be filled promptly.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. CO.
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products.
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: New York and San Francisco, U. S. A. Cable Address: Genromco*.
FACTORIES: York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and E. St* Louis, Illinois, U. S. A.
Australian Office: Perpetual Trustee Building, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local stocks carried by John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
vou read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/*
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
«8
\i
r,\
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the ease than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9(1.
H, L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
GENTLEMEN
of taste and refinement wear
ABBEY SHOES
because there is no better footwear
made. Select your next pair of
shoes at the Abbey Shoe Stores.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a Choice Patent Oxford
Bal., with dull Calf Legs. . 35/-
In highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
An Edison
Record of a
Soldier’s Voice
is the most “personal” memento of him
that you can obtain before he leaves for
the Front. It will prove wonderfully
comforting, to those who remain behind,
to hear his well-known voice while he
may be thousands of miles away.
The Edison Phonograph makes a really
life-like record possible; it is the only
machine upon which a truly satisfactory
record can be made at home.
If your phonograph is equipped with a
Recorder, all you need purchase for an
experiment is a blank record costing 1/-
(in Australia).
Call on your nearest Edison dealer, who
will gladly explain how simple it is.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD.
("Wholesale Only). 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney
BEST - ALWAYS.
p|*
111
m
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-l-S.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tue
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


IN
SW
Y
LJ
rs
ELY
ho Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel most popular
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange. 1
r Jhe Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
TIVOLI FOLLIES NEW ZEALAND WINTER TOUR
The TIVOLI FOLLIES will commence their winter tour of New Zealand early in Julv. The company
K°es t° New Zealand complete, just as it appears, in the Harry Rickards Australian theatres —principals
ballet, chorus, orchestra. Miss Lila Caspers, the world-famous Australian Contralto, goes over as an
additional star feature.
WALTER WEEMS.
He is the most original
comedian who lias come to
us from America for ten
years past.- And a most
adroit philosopher at that.
BILLY REGO.
A master of pure panto-
mime, his work is perfect
at every point. He never
dulls a point by overwork-
ing it.
The show is good in every
item. Leggy, yes; but
moral—oh, moral as a
f teach served as Melba
ikes it, and bright as
Gaby’s memorable eyes.
VERA PEARCE.
She has made the most remarkable progress
since she last visited New Zealand a year
ago. She is the loveliest Australian girl
on any stage, but she does not depend on
her beauty. She has grace, dignity, and a
very original and delightful feminine charm.
She has become Queen of the Tivoli Follies
by divine right of merit.
JACK CANNOT,
Mr. Cannot is at his happiest and heartiest
just now. His vein of genial humor never
runs dry. He is a very master of mirth.
THELMA RAVE.
With Mr. Weems, Mr. Welch, and Mr. llego,
Miss Thelma Kaye makes her first appearance
in New Zealand. She is rich in a certain
grave sweetness that appeals to everybody,
and her flaming mane of genuine red hair is
a great comfort to many.
GEORGE WELCH.
A cosmopolitan comedian
with a very joyous edge of
humor. As a type of
the bibulous soul that is
happy he has no equal.
FRANK GREENE.
The well-known baritone
and idol of the matinees
is an accomplished diseur.
In “Carillon” he is
perfect.
You may safely bring
your aunt. It is feared
that in New Zealand the
education of aunts has
been somewhat neglected.
A hint sufliceth.
, t . MISS ELLA CASPERS.
Gl : eat Contralto. Now at the full of her powers. The Girl with the Voice of Gold.
\\ith Monsieur Jacques 801, Operatic Tenor, the Belgian Band, the delightful Follies’ Chorus and Ballet,
and full Tivoli Orchestra, under Mr. Mill Quintrell.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In all this fulsome adulation of Kitchener
there is not a word about Itoberts, the
man who saw what was coming and had the
courage to incur displeasure in high places
by warning the nation to get ready. Never
a monument to Kitchener should be raised
but on it should be inscribed: “lie did a
great job that wouldn’t have been necessary
had we listened to the man of longer, clearer
vision who preceded him.”
Tasmania is exhibiting a fine example
of the insane results of having State and
Federal authorities at work on the same
job. The Builders’ Laborers’ Federation
recently got from the Arbitration Court
an award which fixed the wages of builders’
laborers in Hobart at Is. Gd. per hour for
a week of 44 hours. A State Wages Board
has fixed the wages for the same work at
Is. per hour for a4B hours’ week. The
half-dozen leading builders who were cited
as parties in the Arbitration Court thus
have to pay Is. Gd. per hour, while their
business rivals who were not cited pay Is.
per hour under the Wages Board. Relying
on the interpretation that the Arbitration
Court award applies only to members of
the claimant union, the firms that were
cited have now resolved to employ only non-
unionists and to pay them the Wages Board
rates; and as the bricklayers all work under
the State Wages Board and only get Is. Gd.
per hour, they give the cold eye when they
are asked to join in a sympathetic strike to
secure for their unskilled laborers the same
wage as they are getting for their own
skilled services. So, for the present, the
laborers have an award and no wages;
the trade is disorganised; and everybody
is giving three cheers for the chaos which
we call a system of government.
IN WOODROW WILSON’S YOUTH.
INTERESTED VISITOR: “And which, side of
the house do you think he favors?”
PROUD MAMMA: “Nobody. He’s neutral.”
Australia has just had another example
of the caste spirit that Britain’s bad old
voluntary system of military service breeds:
it finds that, not only are Australian pri-
vates barred by military pickets from the
two most respectable hotels at Cairo, but
ati order has been made directing that they
may not ride in first- or second-class rail-
way carriages—they must travel third with
the insanitary niggers. Under a democratic
system of universal service such an un-
democratic order would be unthinkable.
Justice Higgins told an advocate in the
Arbitration Court last week that he would
be dealt with if he gave any more impudence.
The desperado had said that if his union
didn't get what it wanted the men “would
simply knock off work one after the other
as your Honor suggested might be done.”
If his Honor has been misunderstood it is
his own fault. Beeby, who knows as much
about Arbitration jurisdiction as most of
his profession, puts it this way:—
The President of the Commonwealth Court has
ou more than one occasion definitely stated that after
conditions have been fixed by ins Court, so long as
men do not act in conceit and bring themselves
within the. strike provisions of the Act, they can
individually refuse to take work, and can bargain
with the employers for better conditions than the
Court granted.
Of course Justice Higgins knows the law;
but if this is the law, then the law is all
wrong. There is nothing worth while in
Arbitration if, having submitted the matter
to the Court,, either party can dodge an
adverse finding. And especially is no Court
in the least justified in giving preference
to unionists if the union will not hind itself
to obey the award of the Court. If it won’t
do that, what is preference officially sanc-
tioned for?
ANOTHER SCRAP OF RARER.
The central executive of the Political Labor
League of N.S. Wales has circularised candidates.
The idea is to refuse endorsement to the nomination
of any man who declares himself in favor of universal
compulsory military service. —Daily paper.
THE BOTTOM DOG: “ ’Ere, you get off! You
can't rule me! I refuse to endorse your
nomination.”
■V hundred years hence, when another sea
fight is about due, the man of 2U16 who
owned a careful great-grandfather, will look
at a yellowed newspaper of June 5, 1916, and
find alongside the roaring battle-news the
brief announcement that George V., on his
birthday, conferred the Order of Merit on
Arthur Janies Balfour, First Lord of the
Admiralty, in recognition of his services in
—what? Engineering? The invention of
some armored plate or explosive? The
development of a new idea in naval strategy?
Business organisation? No, nothing like
that. “In recognition of his services in
philosophy and literature.” And then the
hurried, overdriven man of 2016 will marvel
once more how it was that Britain muddled
through so long.
Last week's judgment of the High Court
in the priee-of-bread case establishes that
under the Mar Precautions .Vet the Com-
monwealth possesses a very large authority.
The essence of it is that the Execu-
tive and not the Court must be the judge of
whether the regulations issued are expedi-
ent. So the Court declined to determine
whether there was any connection between
the defence of Australia and bread at 41d.
which under the circumstances was ’a
very wise thing for the Court to do. The
judgment or judicial wink or whatever *t
may be disposes of a delicate question ; but
whether the Federal Government will
receive it with applause is another matter.
The Ma State six-o’clockers were up bright
and early last week for the great offensive
and flung themselves at the ballot-box with
such persistency that Bung reeled out of the
fray to decorate his hat with crepe and play
the Dead March on muffled hogsheads. Six
o clock won with an enormous majority. So
the purchase or sale of a bottle of beer in
N. S. Wales after 6 p.m. is going to be a
legal offence; and liquor will only be obtain-
able during the time the people are at work.
The decently-conducted pub will be shut
because the opening of the frowsy pothouse
was in the public mind a grave social danger.
All this is hopelessly irrational, but there
is nothing in last week’s vote to suggest that,
given a continuance of Parliamentary bung-
ling, this irrationality may not be afforded
opportunities to indulge in even greater
freakishness.
The “foul weed of militarism” seems less
rank in the cabbage gardens of compulsory
service than in the jungles of voluntary
enlistment. In Switzerland, two high offi-
cers of the General Stall' were removed from
their command recently for allegedly pro-
Gennan acts, but in exchange were given
responsible appointments bv the civil autho-
rities. In response to a popular outburst,
however, a regular military trial was
ordered, and among the seven judges of the
delinquent colonels sat a humble sergeant
and a lowly corporal. In allegedly demo-
cratic comrtries which still hang on to the
voluntary system, military service is a
matter largely for self-glorification; in truly
democratic countries like Switzerland it is a
plain civic duty like paying the income tax
and keeping the chimney swept.
Frank 11. Downer, of Adelaide, has
written to the local papers about conscrip-
tion of wealth: —
Mr. George Downer received last year, in respect
of rents from bis properties, in all £8192 13s.
Out of this he paid Federal land tax, £2572 Bs. 2d.,
and met other charges for taxes and insurance, which
left him only £2767 16s. 9d. Out of this he has
to pay State income tax £l7O and Federal income
tax £692.
However poor an opinion this paper has
of the “conscription of wealth” clatter it
wants to know a bit more before it feels
sorry for Mr. George Downer. The Federal
land tax is levied on unimproved capital
value; and if Mr. Downer got only £811)3
rent from landed property on which he paid
£2572 Federal tax, it looks as though Mr.
Downer was making ruinously poor use of
his landed property.
Three members of the Westralian Labor
Government are to have a run at the selec-
tion ballot for their goldfields boroughs.
Premier Scaddan, Mines Minister Collier
and Attorney-General Tommy Walker are
opposed by hungry Ljiborites who have
hitherto only enjoyed the crumbs of the
loaves and the scales of the fishes. It is
unlikely that either Scaddan or Collier will
be ousted, but Walker may have a stiff
run for his Ministerial screw. Tommy’s
anxiety to give the criminal, especially the
sexual offender, a chance to do it again, has
got on the nerves of the public. The Labor
plebiscite—in these goldfields electorates,
anyway—settles the hash of the candidates.
The following election is merely a matter of
form.
The new Westralian Act dealing with
venereal diseases is doing good work already.
A horrible case was lately dug up by the,
police. A woman took her 19-year-old
daughter to a notorious brothel and then
hawked the girl’s photograph among soldiers,
taking a percentage of the subsequent earn-
ings. The fiend got six months. Then the
police and the military between them traced
the infection of a number of soldiers in the
venereal “boob” at Blackboy Hill camp to
this house and to this girl. The Board of
Health thereupon took action and the
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
THE CUSTOMER (after the worm lias pulled
down everything, even to the last packet
of hairpins): “You don't appear to
have any gumption at all, my man.”
THE WORM : “Vo, ma’am. But. we shall he
pleased to procure it for you, ma’am.”
tainted Venus was ordered detention and
treatment for six months. By that time she
will probably be cured —only'to be infected
again, perhaps, by some person who has
come from (say) Sydney, where the popula-
tion is permitted by a mad law to wander
around spreading one of the world’s most
awful horrors without hindrance.
1 1 belly, of the Queensland Ministry t n
mg to a deputation in Pudsban?
that it would he a fine thing if tR? te<l
went in for life insurance?’ V S , tat "
fim-i- thing if it made „ *• >
dozen enterprises it has already l "
And after that there are a hundred
things that it would do more good
ling. The object of State enterprise k
cut out the proprietor and bis "
save the people who provide
THE MAGICIAN.
Mr. Cann, Acting-Premier of N.S. Wales expects
that the State finances for the year ending June 3O
will show a small surplus.
the profits made out of it. The mutual
insurance office does that. Three-fourths of
the “life” business of Australia is done
by offices .which have no shareholders and
l'ay no dividends, and nine-tenths of the
other one-fourth is done by one or two
offices which take-only a microscopic part
of the profits in return for certain guaran-
tees. There isn’t another class of business'
from which Private Enterprise is so elimi-
nated as it is from life-insurance, and there
isn’t one from which the public would be
less likely to get any improvement by State i
intervention.
In a field of four, .Tames Deany, the:
selected temperance Liberal, won the late
John Murray’s Warrnambool seat in the
Vic. Assembly by a majority of 1084 votes,
Laborite Alfred Pearce (secretary of the
Engine-drivers), lawyer Desmond Dunne
and engineer Percy Webb following in that
order. A peculiar feature of the polling
was that on the first count
Deany was only 35 votes
ahead of the bottom candi-
date, in a poll of GOG 4. On
the next count, Deany got
three-quarters of the second
preferences on the outed
Webb’s papers and Dunne
went down. Deany then
took most of the preferences
in the final counj and can-
tered in. It is claimed as a
victory for the local Tem-
perance Council, since the
new member is in favor of
an early-closing referendum.
Still, there is something to
chew over in the fact that
Webb would have won, leav-
ing Temperance at the bot-
tom of the poll, if he had
managed to rake up only
three dozen more No. 1
votes. Deany has a music-
warehouse at Warrnambool,
where the public may buy
anything from a copy of the well-known
hymn. “Why Can’t I Kiss You, Cora?” to
a genuine Guarnerius at 17s. Gd.
BATTLE-NEWS FROM THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I cannot calm my restless soul to-night;
I cannot bear the sight of mirth and ease,
Hearing those shrill young voices that affright
W ith half-told tales of battle ’mid black seas —
Steeled shadows rushing through the whistling dark,
Blown smoke and flame and shatt’ring thunder-
blast
Which tell High Heaven that nations armed and stark
Have murder done and Hell is loose at last.
] cannot face the staring fact to-night
That 1 am roving free, a flaccid tiling
No warrior would ever ask to fight;
And for me cannon flash and good men fling
Their flesh and bone into the flame and smoke,
Yet ask me for no help ! —there is the shame
No word can soothe, no coward logic cloak !
They fight for me —and die in England’s name!
x.s.v.
UNTRAINED CIVILIAN.
JEAMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Winston Churchill states that in the British army
there are 200,000 officers with 200,000 servants and
50,000 grooms.
The Empire in its need, it seems,
lias found a final use for Jeames;
No longer on the Turkish rug
He pedicures my lady’s pug,
Or, clad in plush and stockings, states
(With one eye on the mansion gates)
‘'My Lord, my Lord, the carriage waits.”
But still amid the dirt of war
He proves that grace surpasses gore.
At ho else could clean the Flanders mud
From master’s boots, or find his stud,
Or brush his khaki tunic, so
That outland foreigners may know
How men of birth should meet the foe?
VICTORIA.
RANN DALY.


—c
s^Mes
PALING’S
for Pianos
Player Pianos
Chappell Pianos.
BRITISH MADE
SINCE 1812.
These beautiful Pianos are made in many artistic
designs, and from the very best materials. They
are in the front rank of first-class Pianos, and
possess a most responsive touch, with a pure and
varied tone of delightful quality. Any “Chappell'’
can he purchased on easy terms if desired.
Catalogue posted free on request.
Sames Pianos.
BRITISH
THROrUHOUT.
We are certain these instruments-
will appeal to you by reason of
their being attractive, well-made,
and combining the very best
materials and workmanship with
a full, rich, sonorous tone.
Catalogue posted free on request.
Sold on easy terms.
Estey Pianos.
MADE
SPECIALLY
FOR US.
A feature of Estey Pianos is ' their solidity of
construction and the excellence of the materials
used, and the careful workmanship. Since these
pianos were first made over 49,000 have been sold.
Catalogue posted free on request.
§
~
Vicflor Pianos and
Player Pianos.
nacnio
xavo imo
ox aavK
We guarantee these Pianos and
Player Pianos to give satisfaction
in any climate. The sweetness
of tone is not their only attribute,
the touch is easy and responsive,
and their wear-resisting qualities
are remarkable. Write to-day for
free Catalogue and price list.
Easy terms if desired.
Old Pianos Taken in Exchange and Valued Free
of Charge .
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.
Estd.
1853
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PO
X
X
Hsuma nv
x
M
S3HAI
h&lowytfC&A
PO
X
PO
DO
ffl
HVhhsSshhhhhhhhhvksSs
y
&
THREE RIBBED TYKES
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Write for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists :
MELBOURNE: CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, Kin* Street. COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
J> C R. —60
WAR HAS LOWERED
the Price of Pearls by One-half.
Our latest receipts from the fisheries
show a drop in prices of at least one-half,
and this is enabling us to offer Pearl
Hopes and Earrings and Brooches at less
than half the old prices.
Breast-pins, too, for Men’s wear; Sets
of Dress Studs, etc., all are being offered
at the latest low prices.
It is no use shipping the Pearls to
Europe—no buyers. America buys but
few pearls, and so we arc offering them
to our own buyers.
It is good business to buy now, as they
must rise enormously after the war is
over. Why ? Simply because the world's
supply is not equal to the demand. We
have secured tens of thousands of them.
They are worth seeing.
Choice Whole Pearl Necklets, from £2O to £6OO
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.,
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
INSECTIBANE
This Popular Fly
Killer and Insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES,
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
*
Make Your
Own Cans.
If you buy Tin Cans of a»y
description you are paying for
th€*;e machines.
WHY NOT OWN THEM?
Make your own cans and the
imadfaines will pay for themselves.
Even the small Can Maker or
Packer, whose output is only 5000
to 10,000 Cans per day, will save
money by using the
“AMS SYSTEM”
for making or closing Sanitary
Cans.
ca
We have machines exactly suited to your needs, jyhether
your output is 5000 or .1.00,000 Cans per day.
We will gladly send, without obligation, prices find
pictures of machines adapted to your jreeds. Send Jis
samples of your cans or drawings with complete dimen-
sions, and state the quantity you make.
CORRESPONDENCE IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Address Drjpt. C-14
The MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn.
Agents :
w. E. HUGHES CQ, CO., London, E.C., England.
H. W. PEABODY (St CO., Sydney, K'.S.W., Australia.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
In these anxious times —econ-
omy must be a first considera-
tion. Cut out needless expense
—shave yourself. It’s easy and
quite safe if you use the
QiMette?
1
omsxznx\
No STROPPING NO HONING
No other razor gi/es you the
same satisfactory service.
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
TQAOe
§ dWI
KNOWN Tnf
JMORLO OV£*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Trot”: What a chance has been missed
by Bung anrl the Waterwaggoners to help win the
war, give sport a lift, get away with a hatful from
Ikev Moses, and swell the patriotic fund! The
opportunity was/ sticking out a foot all over the Ma
State while the Six v. Nine elimination tourney was
on. Suppose Snowy Baker had announced a couple
of six-round prelims, between barmen and elders, and
a struggle over the Marathon course between a
licensed seller of the clirsed D-rink and a licensed
manipulator of the marriage Bonds. And also sup-
pose the old familiar dope about training had been
handed out, and all parties had worked hard with
their chins, and the proceeds had been advertised to
go to the Anzacs! Why, the Stadium wouldn’t have
been able to hold the crowd! Also, teams of Bung
and Wowser weight-lifters, wrestlers, tug#>f-warriors,
quick bun-eaters and hash artists could have been
sent on tour all over the State, worked up excite-
ment to boiling point, and amassed great wealth.
There seems mighty little enterprise in the Ma
State these times. But there will be a chance directly
to do all this in Victoria. Therefore will someone
kindly arise and awake? There is boodle in this,
Do you hear — -boodle —hatsful of it!
* * * *
Cetigne’s brother in blood and poor rela-
tion in the matter of stake winnings, College Green,
came to light in the Farm Stakes at Warwick Farm
(Sydney) on Saturday, when he beat 12 others of
the same mediocre class as himself. College Green
is a season older than Cetigne and had previously
Won in Victoria. Peculiarly, College Green is in the
stable which shelters his slick young brother, and his
trainer’s name is Green. As Mrs. M. Moran owns
the gelding there was a hint of Home Rule about
the victory. Cetigne’s owner, “Jumbo” Barnett,
went close to winning a double on the same day
with Lady Antonio. The lady arrived third in the
Flying, only about a neck behind the winner, and in
the Welter later on pushed Huthwaite into second
place, i Lady Antonio’s trainer is not Green. But
he can shout “Hurroo” just as well as if it was. His
name is O’Brien.
* * * *
The Sydney owner who disguises himself
as “J. Birks” was not getting any out-of-his-turn
smiles from Luck when St. iicdoc landed the War-
wick Farm Hurdles on Saturday. St. Medoc was* a
strong tip for several jumping events recently, but
failed to materialise. “Mr. Birks” gave a hatful of
money for the nag, anl was rewarded with a few
small prizes. Value, the imported mare which won
the Warwick Handicap, was also once his property.
He brought her to Australia, but she didn’t show pace
enough to head a jumbuck. Booth, the successful
Rosehill trainer, now lias Value under his eye, and
she has apparently decided to get a move on for a
change. Anyhow, she staggered past the judge with
Foil’s head at her throat strap.
» * * »
Though they probably loathe the name,
Banana land bookmakers should set up a monument
in memory of Demaranthus when the unexpected
animal passes out. Demaranthus won the 1000 sovs.
attached to the Albion Cup on Saturday by four
lengths, starting at 12 to 1. On May 3i the same
nag (14 to 1) covered two miles quicker than any-
thing else in the Brisbane Cup. That time Demar-
anthus obliged Ikey by carrying Bst. 71b. On Satur-
day he humped 9st. 121 b., which included a penalty
of 101 b., the distance being a little over a mile anil
a quarter. The perplexed punter is now waiting to
find out how the prad shapes when it crosses the
border.
**** - t -
At Adelaide Birthday Cup meeting the
totalisator takings were £46,891, as against £54,700
for the three days of the Adelaide Cup meeting on the
same ground. Last year, both were under £50,000, but
before the war both were up in the sixties. From
the machine the Adelaide Racing Club got £3500,
just half of the stake-money, and the Government
kept £1172. Cyklon again won the only weight-
for-age race, and this time made no mistake about
the Cup, whereby Mrs. Hawker became the biggest
winner ( £1500) of the week. Hiekenbotham was a
bad second with £6BO, mostly won by the too-
ligfitly-treated Polybius; then came “Rawdon”
Syme, J. V. Smith, and the local A. E. Hamilton.
R. M. Hawker, husband of Cyklon’s owner, had a
collection of mere second and third places.
The successful running of the Adelaide
Cup meeting and the Birthday Cup meeting in quick
succession on the one course has set Adelaide sports-
men wondering whether there is any real reason for
keeping up the rival establishments of the S.A.J.C.
and the A.R.C. Each has a. fully-equipped course
with all accessories, and, the military having
annexed Morphettville for a temporary camp, the
Adelaide Gup moved to Victoria Park without any
inconvenience to speak of. For the past 30 years
the clubs have had the good sense not to compete
against each other in any way; and it simply means
that each expensive establishment has been used in
turn while the other lay idle. In fact, each Club
races on only seven davs in the year, six of'the 14
being crowded into the two Cup weeks—and there
are a few odd days allowed to Tattersall’s, and a
solitary one to the Hunt Club. Meanwhile, a third
course, suburban, like Morphettville, is being worked
up towards perfection by the Port Adelaide 1 Club;
but, even so, all Adelaide’s , racing days put together
wouldn’t make up one a fortnight; and trotting and
the ponies are entirely unknown there. The objection
to amalgamating the two big courses—which means
abandoning one of them—would be (bar sentiment)
mainly one of uncertainty about the future of rac-
ing. Morphettville is five miles out; but the
S. owns the freehold. Victoria Park is the
People’s course, being on the city’s park-lands, with
a free Flat; but it is only leased from the Adelaide
Corporation, which might some day take a wowsing
fit and decline to renew. So, allowing also for
sentiment, which would make either club unwilling
to give up existence, it is long odds that the present
system, wasteful as it is, will continue.
* * * *
Alan McFarlane’s lownit (Grafton —My
Own) retired to the stud after the Birthday Cup
meeting in Adelaide. He has been an unlucky horse
winning nothing big except the Newmarket, and that
as a four-year-old ; the last two seasons he has been
second and then third in the same race. With form
fully exposed he has in Adelaide also run second and
third in the Goodwood, and second in the City
Handicap both years. On the last occasion he was
giving over 3st. to Hickenbotham’s Polybius, the
winner. The following week he gave Polybius - 2st.
and a beating—and then retired to domestic duties'
* * * -?
“Musketoon”; Regarding Waddy Boy’s
feat at Gladstone, on the Macleay, of losing a walk-
over through his lead-bag slipping (B. 11/5/’l6), old
sports at Forbes (N.S.W.) tell of a similar happen-
ing. Ted Clifford had a hot-stuff horse named
A.L.G. The prad was in such good form that owners
scratched their nags, leaving A.L.G. to canter round
alone and gather half the prize. But when jockey Col-
litts came to weigh in he was 151 b. under weight.
The lead-bag had slipped from under the saddle near
the half-mile. There was a large-sized row, and court
proceedings followed, but Costs declared in favor of
the club in disqualifying the horse for the race. Yet
it didn’t matter tuppence, and was a pretty shabby
thing for the club to do.
* * * *
At a recent Durban race meeting A.
Wheatley, an English jockey, rode six winners on the
one day. It was the first time any jockey had
brought this off in S’Africa since J. E. Boardman
.did it in 1903.
* * » * *
The latest body of sports to give McSnuffle
a push is the Maoriland Metropolitan Trotting Club.
At a meeting the other day, the profits from the
November, February and April meetings Were handed
over to the fund for sick and wounded soldiers.
Divvy, £3915, whereupon MacStiggins and Chadband
handed in 2d. and remarked that this horrible hnsi-
ness of going to races should be stopped in order to
give the Empire a chance.
T. 11. Lowry, owner of Desert Gold, lias
so far this season won slightly over £lB,OOO in
stake-money on the race-tracks of Maoriland. This
is easily the biggest amount ever bagged by an
owner thereabouts in one season. The previous best
was Stead’s £12,325 in 1901-2. Yet apart from
racing Lowry has more cash than he knows what to
do with. He inherited cash, married cash, made
cash, and then bought cash with this filly. If he
hadn’t been worth a bean Desert Gold would have
fallen down dead in her first race. That’s the luck
of the game.
“BUNG” WIL-
MOT, secretary
of the Old Mel-
bournians, and. a
well-known boy
in Victorian ama-
teur athletics.
“Pot Jostler. junior,” from Rockhampton:
The day after Howard English, one-time owner of
racing horses, had resigned the job of chairman of
the Central Bananaland executive, after 20
years’ battling for straight racing, the remaining
members gave a decision in an appeal which has led
to about 2457 people being tangled up in the mess
of their lives. At the Easter meeting of the
Rockhampton Jockey Club a nag named Port Ste-
phens, once owned by William Christian, of Sydney,
won the Opening Handicap, beating Glenkite, owned
by a local bookmaker. After the race the bookie
protested against Port Stephens being given the prize-
money on the ground that the winner’s nomination
fees had 'not been paid before eight o’clock on the
night nominations closed. The stewards dismissed
the protest on the grounds that the practice prevail-
. ing for many years in the Central .District was to
accept nominations without the fees being paid at
the time. Thereupon the owner of Glenkite appealed
to the C.Q.H. executive, which decided in favor of
the appellant, gave Glenkite the race, declared all
bets on the -disqualified prad off, and fined Ikey £25
for not reporting the matter before the race was
run. Then the other Bar-Vons took a hand and re-
fused to pay Glenkite, alleging that the horse had
started at a false price, because Port Stephens had
no chance of winning according to the decision of the
executive, and they have asked the Rockhampton
Club for redress. Also the Club has received a pro-
test against Glenkite being paid the prize money, as
his nomination fees had not been. lodged in time
nor the horse’s ownership stated. Further, a writ
has been thrown at the club by the owner of Port
Stephens claiming the boodle and an injunction to
restrain the Club from paying out the money to
Glenkite. In addition, another owner has written to
'the Club stating that he lost £llO backing Lazy
Mollie in the same race, and as her nomination fees
were not paid in time his bets about her should be
declared off by the same token. On inquiries being
made it was found that only one horse was properly
entered, and as he was not weighed in the tangle
became more beautiful than ever. Meanwhile fren-
zied stewards of the Jockey Club are yelling to the
executive to reconsider its decision, punters are howl-
ing for gore, and Costs is contentedly chewing his
oats. The prize is worth £35, but, up to now,
one King s Counsel, two barristers and four solicitors
have butted in with opinions and bills.
* * * *
Carfax” : Talkijig about cheap horses, I
know a man who bought for £4 a nag with a hind
leg swollen like a balloon. He fired it, turned the
animal into swampy country for two years, and the
next thing that happened was that he won five
hurdle races in succession, and after two or three
byes won a couple more. Then the horse broke down
beyond hope of redemption. The owner was a pluckv
bettor and was over £3OOO ahead of it. Then he
started making an ass of himself and gave £5OO
apiece for a couple of yearlings. They went to a
big trainer. Sheol knows where the rest of the cash
and a lot more went to. The lad who trained and
rode the lumper for hbn prevailed on the local
publican to acquire an animal which had
been handed to him to break in for a liverv stable
but wouldn’t stay in its paddock. Bung ‘won the
best end of a fortune, and the trainer a big reputa-
bon and much patronage. The luck of the game’
phfin luck! 8 Per Cent judgment and 99 Per cent.
*
“Flat”: At Bingara (N.S.W.) the other
night Premier Holman was asked at a meeting why
horse-i acing on Sydney courses had not been cur-
-3S T ™ ngara the F hadn’t had any for two
years, most of the men and horses in the district
having gone to the war. Holman did a slide for life
b.v blaming the Federal Government. For himself
he-said, he thought racing should be lessened, but
lhi W xrdW “f e 111 whlch he couldn’t interfere with
the National Government (or words to that effect)
In his hurry to change the subject he forgot to
mention that it is the Chief Secretary of N S Wales
who issues licenses for horse and pony racin'- die
tates the number of days each club shall be allotted
and decides all matters in that connection. After that
the Treasurer collects the State’s share of the swag
and the bookmakers do the rest.
*** . *
Sydney bookmakers who dabble at start-
ing-price odds on country meetings got a smack in
the Bag last week. While someone unostentatiously
led Wongabindi to the Tuggerah meeting, someone
else drifted up against McNoses and put the cash on
at starting-price. The course?neglected animal started
at 10 to 1, and the coup was something to rave over.
When last heard of, Ike was croaking
and making even ruder remarks.
* * * *
The embryonic footballer of future years
is getting his hand in nicely in Melbourne. T’other
Saturday two juvenile teams belonging to a church
association got into holts at Studley Park, and one
crowd chased the other to its travelling carriage—a
furniture van —with blue metal. The driver speeded
up, but his mokes weren’t built for speed, and pre-
sently four khaki-clad barrackers climbed aboard
and dealt out stoush enthusiastically. The enemy
dealt it out likewise; and the road was strewn with
ejected footballers. The driver was making the best
time possible on his appointed course when the
trickle of blood at his feet diverted him to the
nearest police station. Somebody had enforced an
argument with a penknife, and the Law is now
taking a mild interest in the matter.
•* *• * *
No, Maoriland Rugby Union is not having
any trouble with its banker, thank you. The Union
began the season with a surplus of £9007, built up
out of the “All-Black” tours to England and Aus-
tralia. Among its outstanding accounts is £362 due
by N.S.W. and Bananaland Unions; and considering
the blueness of the Rugby game in Australia, the
item looks good enough to remain outstanding.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Bulletin might fairly re-
print, in honor of parson Mullineux, just come from
the U.S.A. to M.L. to enlist (B. l/6/’l6), the jolly
verses it gave when he made a surprising first
appearance in Australia, nearly 20 years ago, as
captain of an English Rugby team. They began
(quoting from memory) :
I should put his weight about 9 stone 8,
And his height about 5 foot 2 ;
Face like the face of an eight-day clock,
Comes of a good old fighting stock—
Reverend Mullineux.
Jf the rest I .only remember the end, an ecstasy of
appreciation of the little nugget: “ Look at him
chucking big blokes about! Reverend Mullineux.”
* *■ * *
Mrs. Virginia Emily Heckenberg, mother
of champions, died in her native town, Liverpool
(N.S.W.), last week, at 72. She had 13 children,
nine of whom are alive. There are eight sons. Jim,
the eldest, held the wood-chopping championship for
15 years; then stiff joints compelled him to hand it
over to his youngest brother. All the sons are big
men, averaging 6ft. lin., and none are under 16st.
Two are in the police and three in the Garrison
Military Police, being beyond the age for active
service. Her husband, who survives her, was born
in Sydney in 1843. He is 6ft. 2in., and son of
Captain Heckenberg, a Yorkshire man, who arrived
in his vessel in Sydney in 1834 and settled here.
* * * *
‘‘Trooper Redgum”: Somewhere about
the 10th round in our scrap with Abdul we were
sent to relieve on the extreme right, and from the
hillsidc*“behind Chatham’s Post we could often see
schools of mullet playing about in the clear blue
waters of the Aegean immediately below us. Visions
of a Comino breakfast making us ignore any rules
and regulations of Abdul’s fishery board, we would
sneak down to the beach with a few bombs from the
firing-line. A few minutes later the Turk snipers in
the Balkan gunpits, 750 yards away, would grab
their rifles at the sight of a naked figure which
rushed across the narrow beach to the water’s-edge
and there stood just long enough to light a bomb
with a cigarette bumper and hurl it in amongst the
fish. Mr. Turk would just about vtake up in time to
let fly a few shots as the vision dasHied back" to the
safety of the abruptly-rising hillside. About 10
seconds later, after the bomb had exploded, two more
Chidley converts would do the goose-step across the
danger zone and make a flying dive into the water.
Then the fun would start and the Turks would have
the time of their lives pinking at whatever portion
of your anatomy was visible at the moment of diving
after the fish at the bottom. Plop! plop! plop!
w'ould land the bullets alongside you whenever you
showed your periscope to locate the nearest sartif on
which to throw your two handfuls of fish. Then more
submarine groping on the bottom until you had
recovered all the breakfasts in the locality. After
that would come the ticklish part. Dog-paddling
in as far as the water would cover you, you’d wait
until you thought Abdul’s magazine was about
empty, and then you’d grab as many fish as you
could and bolt for shelter 15 yards across the beach.
When we got amongst a school, with luck we’d get
about 30 beauties, averaging a pound apiece. When
the mullet had appointments elsewhere we’d hurl
the bomb, with a rather longer fuse, into one of the
many patches of seaweed, and we’d always score
about a dozen fair-sized black and silver bream
Always our greatest trouble was to keep a crowd of
other loafers from swooping down on our mined
area, to help us recover the booty. When the party
was select, dividends were larger and there’d be less
chance of a shrapnel coming along to wish us good-
morning. a
* * * *
As there was a scrap with Darcy hing-
ing on the result of an unpleasantness between Dave
Smith and Colin Bell at Sydnej' Stadium on Satur-
day, a fair-sized wad depended on the referee’s deci-
sion. But it didn’t come to that. Smith outed the
big fellow m the fourteenth round. They made a
strenuous go of it, and Smith won because he is the
better boxer and because Bell omitted to go in and
finish him when he had the chance. Allegedlv they
Mere fighting for the heavyweight championship, and
perhaps the claim to that effect was legitimate
enough; but anyone who could get Axcited
about the big fellows with a wallop in Australia
nowadays would become exhilarated on a refrigerated
squash. °
* * * •
“Buck” Crouse was given a chance at
Melbourne on Saturday to put his wallop on Mick
King. It was a weary business. Mick had the most
science, but the weight of the Yank’s broadsides
gave him a rough passage. Up till the tenth Mick
scored well by slithering out of range when Crouse
led, and then jabbing left and right to the other
cove s head. Crouse frequently found Mick’s plim-
soll with vicious right drives, and once bashed him
the 6ar > In the 10tli round his J' aws snapped
together as Crouse uppercut him twice, and thence
Mick was in Queer-street. By attaching himself to
Crouse at every opportunity he managed to evade
an absolute woodener; but he also evaded the
referee s blessing. The crowd’s language was purple.
Duke Kahanamoku, the dusky swimtv,•
marvel, goes on chewing up records
Recently he swished over 40yds in f Ts Plistime-
(l-osec. off the slate) and 220yds in W Hsec-
(lsee. off). If the war troubles Mow „ 53 3u'ssec-
his spindly legs grow weary, Austria ® bef ° re
another* glimpse of the Hawaiian. “ may get
The new Under-Secretarv for .
cal head of the Chief Secretary’s DepJrtm' l ’!’ Ul '
Soutli Aus. is Harry Pdinman e,lt) ' n
Sholl, just retiring. Blinman i’ s a sound"! 2
official, but is more widely known outside tl! m’ (l
being chairman of the Australian Board of e
Control. He got into the S.A. AI as C hat C " eket
brilliant, field -almost as a boy, and had is a " ant|
inter-State matches, dropping out just a « cimlli-n
came in. He is the best Austral;, !"
never got into a test match. Now he ‘is, i " h ,°
enthusiast and president of the Adelaide Oval Club" S
By agreement. inter-State baseball win i
stowed away for the coming season and !, ?
thereafter;as Bash rules the world As * nY” 0, «
inter-State football and lacrosse are already on i
journeys over the border will be loft to the ’
ened multitude who put their trust in the Lt' X 1
never returns. UIM that
* * * *
Adelaide : The motorists who lately
hunted kangaroos by motor-car on a northern.*
tion in S. Aus. have had a shock It U !1 , ta ‘
iargriy for film purposes, and the picture*'tiWiM
with others of. tame kangaroos feeding/ma le
effective and unusual display. And now „ ,
have written to the papers about it and cal e? ?
b fbarous and cowardly” and “wanton cruel v ’>
ai.d Chief Secretary Styles-who used to b e secret*’
Of the butchers’ union—has told the SP r
that his Ministry proposes to extend the censo'rsht
of films so as to cover such cases. The whole S
seems trivial. Many a hundred ’roos have b een
and vvill be, ridden down by horsemen with
and where is the difference in doing it per mach S
If any were killed that day, they were caS
kept out of the camera’s sight. The SP C \ Zi
good work; in the past year it has “investieated’’
1204 cases prosecuted in 31 (with 29 convictions)*
and remedied without prosecution” the other n-»
But it declined to join with Paris Nesbit in puttine
down enclosed or “plumpton” coursing of hares an!
to object to this solitary kangaroo-hunt makes it
look foolish.
>** * _ *
Bill Williams, who died at Neutral Bav
(Sydney) recently, was a sculler of note 40 years aeo
An Anniversary regatta introduced him to the
public in a race for men who had never won a
prize. Subsequently he became Ned Trickett’s
trainer, and was a great success in at least one
respect—he kept Ned away from his enemy.
The Californian tennis comet, McLough-
lin, is reported to have “chucked” the courts. Mac
got so tired of being walked over bv Great
Unknowns last season that he reckoned the time was
ripe to try another game. So he has taken to golf,
and already experts, who probably don’t know any-
thing, are beginning to allege that he has the mak-
ings of a great exponent of it.'
* * * •*
International sport these days seems to be
carried on only by lonely little bands of Yank
pugilists and their chattering managers. Grofcr
Upton's marine racing-machine Shamrock IV.,
which crossed the Atlantic with hopes of the
America Cup, is now coffined in a specially-built
galvanised iron shed in a Brooklyn shipyard, it
will probably sleep there till some fat 'munition-
making Yank decides to buy it and help Lipton
pay his English war taxes.
Port Adelaide no sooner got rid of the
train running along its main street to
the Outer Harbor than it asked to have it
back again. The Railways Commissioner
replied that he could not upset the new
policy ; but, on “very special occasions,” as
the rails are still there, lie might send a
train that way if the military wished it.
So the town councillors asked the Army,
and the Army asked the Commissioner, and
a departing contingent last week was fare-
welled all down the street as of old, instead
of being run to the harbor by the new and
safe back way.
The Early Pioneers’ Association, meeting
in Melbourne the other day, decided to start
a hunt for the oldest living Australian
native. Septuagenarians, octagenarians
and centenarians throughout Australia may
be expected to appear with the light of
battle in their eyes; but whether they will
all have their birth certificates in their
hands is doubtful. Without these it will
be a difficult job to pick the winnef ; and
whatever happens, the association can count
with confidence upon being called a fraud
by at least six furious centenarians,


Exercise Makes the
Healthy Healthier
Because it is the natural stimulant tor replacing thp
waste tissue of the human system. replacing the
or E kss y auamitv° U nf m H e CaUS - eS the destruction of a greater
involved
s!“^ the acci,muiation
as hose Comprising feW Simple ’ yet scientfic ’ exercises ««*
U/ye BaKer Postal Course
®/ Health, Exercises
con S tn™t ed ne a ftl;s^fotleYts r place 0r W ° rn '° Ut WSSUe ’ and
others are ne r fl e t cei t v°ngt- Sained are illustrated *y the results
I feel much stronger and better in every way since I
S yOUr Course I thank you most sSely for
vn ,r”p!St T'n bettel ' health -. 1 will always recommend
your Postal Course to my friends.”—ll,,L.S., Warwick, Q
™., C L IVe , T« flfte ? n minu tes of your time each day, and I’ll
make a different man of you.
Pa it’ CU iIu 1S °l ?’ y me thods and fees are given in my
Booklet, Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” which will
be piomptly sent to you if you’ll write for it. Just write
your name and address across this advmisement. I’ll know
"hat you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
RED. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
507 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
High Hills Look Low
on the
$
Write for Catalogue “D
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty.-' x
.
109-113 Russell St., Melbourne.
*
I WAS DISCOVERED
Actual Size.
in the days of Chris-
topher Columbus. My
name is
CAROLINA
CHERUTO.
Like my more expensive
brothers —the choice
Havana Cigars—l also
am made in Havana.
But because I am a
Cheruto —open at both
ends —I cost ever so
much less, although I
am just as good to
smoke. Try me.
I was lost sight of for
many years, but have
recently been re-discov-
ered.
You can buy me in
Silver-foil Bundles of
5 for 2/-
Carolina Chcrutos,
5 for 2/-; 35/- per 100
Postage on 5,2 d.; 100,
N.S.W., 9d ;• Inter-
State, 1/2.
/
Write for my Catalog
of Cigars, Cigarettes,
Tobacco, Pipes, etc.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BALANCING CARD TRICK
Wonderful but quite easy No skill or
needed. A good pocket trick For after-dinner or
party. Very surprising and effective. You take a
glass of water and balance it on the edge of a
card, that you hold out at arm’s length. Price
Six, Pence, post free anywhere, and, if you
mention this paper, we will send our
500-page Catalogue of Tricks and Wonders.
The UNION MFG. & AGENCY COMPANY,
_ 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne., _
Missing Friends.
Absent beneficiaries. —Re
HENRY FINBAR FINUCANE, De-
ceased.—The present addresses of Mrs.
DELIA FINUCANE (nee SKENE) and
Mrs. NORAH GERTRUDE SMITH ‘(nee
SKENE), who resided in Charters Towers
about twelve years ago, are required by the
LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR,
Townsville.
V\7 ILL WALTER TULLOCII, late of
’ * Carnoustie, Scotland, please communi-
cate with JAMES WATSON & CO., Ltd.,
403 Latrobe Street, Melbourne?
WANTED information as to where-
abouts of GEORGE BERRYMAN,
son of the late George Berryman, of Treved-
dran, St. Buryan, Cornwall, England. Last
seen about 25 years ago in .Melbourne, Aus-
tralia. Apply J. Vivian Thomas, Solicitor,
Penzance, England.
c/>
iS£
iiiiiiiui:t!!iummnmimiutiuuuiuuHumiti)uimii)iniiMn^
Make Voup Tour
a Success
By
Using
sjinmimiiiiumuinni
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 25th May, 1910.
Tenders for the Supply of Four 5-ton
Steam Travelling Cranes, and Two
10-ton Steam Travelling Cranes, to
Henderson Naval Base, W.A.
FTIENDERS will be received, subject to
I the conditions of tendering, until
twelve noon on Tuesday, Ist August, 1916,
fop the supply and delivery of four 5-ton
Steam Travelling Cranes, and two 10-ton
Strain Travelling Cranes, delivered at Hen-
derson Naval Base, Western Australia.
• Further particulars may be obtained from
the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or from the District Naval
Officer, Brisbane, Edgecliff (Sydney), Largs
Bay (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 20th May, 1916.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Examination for Appointment as Pay-
master’s Clerk (Sea-going).
APPLICATIONS for entry to the Royal
Australian Navy as Paymaster’s Clerk
are invited from persons who attain the age
of 17 years in 1910. A competitive exam-
ination of the same standard as that for
entry as Clerk to the Commonwealth Public
Service will be held in the capital citiest
towards the end of 1910. Candidates are
pass a prescribed medical
Salary commences at the
ss. p„er annum, to which are
idded clothing and provision allowances.
Application forms and particulars may be
(btained from District - Naval Officers at
Brisbane, Edgeeliffe (Sydney), Port Mel-
bourne, Largs Bay (Adelaide), Fremantle
ind Hobart; and from the Naval Secretary,
S T avy Office, Melbourne, with whom appli-
cations must be lodged not later than
Vlonday, 31st July, 1916.
J. A. JENSEN.
Minister of State for the Navy.
required _ to
examination,
rate of £9l
FREE
only--
An ’ Enormous of
Tricks, Games, Puzzles, Toys
and Novelties. No money;
a- little «{ your Spare Time. "Send for particulars.
The UNION Manufacturing and Agency Company,
299 Elizabeth .Street, Jdejboarne^
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Selling Agents for
Broken Hill Proprietary Co Ltd.
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.vS. W.
- RIGNEY SHOES
j
represent«the Highest Standard of footwear
excellence. In quality, price, wear and
every detail Rigney Shoes are sure to give
you satisfaction.
We illustrate a High-Grade Patent Kid
Golosh Bal., with Interwoven Glace Kid
Legs. Very light soles and hand-sewn welts.
Also in Tan Willow Calf
37/0
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
/. p '
& /.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Major Albert Holdsworth, a Melbourne
man whose name is among the latest
D.S.O.’s, has received the reward of a
patient soldier. He went early to Egypt with
the A.S.C., but only got an offshore view, of
Gallipoli. After nine dusty, dry months,
back in Egypt at his dry, dusty job, Ho Ida-
worth asked for a whack at something. 'They
sent him up to Tripoli, and he/emerged with
qualifications for hospital and the D.S.O. He
was in the Intelligence Corps before war
broke out and had a S. African medal with
a bunch of clasps. Arthur, an elder bro-
ther, has just left for parts unmentionable
as a despatch-rider attached to the latest
motor-transport division ; and two other bro-
thers have been worrying the doctors to let
them through.
o
D
%-7-t
r
S'
/
r
!
m
o
!
sT
r
i
*
Motorists!
Are you helping yourselves
and Australia
or the Foreigner ;
Australian
DUNLOP TYRES
are a better proposition than apy of the imported
makes. They cost you less, and yet offer you
better quality and longer service. When you use
“Dunlops” you show practical patriotism with
profit to yourself. “Dunlops” have no superior
for Strength, Thickness and Quality of Tread.
Wky §o outside ?
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES N NX
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME
At the War
/X
Vi
%
:
. ‘V-,■
!
*
■J ?&)
iis’,
sfl
\
iSSSis
s*ss
58*
•ff jTji’
wm>
7
NT
s'-.
ff
mm
o
/y*.
; -O.^
NAS
y/s.y
m
sr&!i
7 -■ ■-'
/
• : - wn
.w»?.
x'
E>
$aBR
ssffi
A'.'^
''-V.
inssai
?rs
yyyvSM
A/mf
m
&
M
& ,: M #a
tefi
8m
:<
off-
v. ■
si*yc«x%s?-
foSiiSj
MsSs
/
v:7"
SSRf?
.7,
M 5&
iit
0883
:sNiSii
*W:
to*;
!< ~/* / /
sy;s
•AiT..Ar‘
tf l
Y-Jfi
mm
a?
*?■>>
i! r
ssiti
idX-XyA/if) y?is
& ;
jK:
tv*
|| |l
i
'|!|ll
WMm
iSSKVtr.:
£<}?£&
rz>
m
iSflste^vjpj
5 7X
r/k
&
MM
fMWs
??syi
mmmmrnm
£tesi
1
Ji&si
*>£*?
vvs(
vS.(?y'‘,
c7>./ ;<
w&rifr
? fJ' ;7 •
|ik|i
i
,; j
:kiS|
Ifi
pa
MzSUt-
,? ■ ■ ,?/ . •-: r,rf
X
fgA, \
s?S
r>vW
f*i
s^*
w
a ; i J
■: t
'^m
m
i
tm
m
«
tv:
m
£
; mmm
Mmhm
•;',:y.
i'.a' * 5
:4S^V
«
B
■/A
mm
’ /r
J >
ys/ys*
S/S Sd4
- Aw*
: J/-y :
SM
&
Hi
SK
■s^i
7iA®
f A
w rv>.MI)GHCS
s<j/
J :</'
AU ITRA’L ,A
ro
E" u Ro'Pt
-
mmmm
VSSM SSS
t€l»,
£.
St
?rm *
j;/X y
/ *"'*4
A:
«i
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has important
W ork to do.
But he finds
It real good fun
Guarding young
Australia’s son.
H ere he is, as
You can see,
Looking straight at
Germany !
He’s a “COBRA”
Little chap,
Polished Hunland
Off the map!


Don’t wait ttf
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your aj \*etJte begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter's Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true rem dy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose -Small Price.
GEMJIN E must bear signature
Carters
IiTTLC
IV ER
PILLS*
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
TWO
LINES
I# 5
S
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/>n£>
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
1C /107MTER S T ' NEWCASTLE
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of cases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, anrl similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating the delicate
and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must
bo removed, and no treatment that docs not
aim at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker’s Greatindian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to' the root of the trouble, and by remov-
ing the cause quickly affords relief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial: —-
Capt. T. \. di Carteret, of the Victorian
Government Training Ship “Dart,” who suf-
fered severely from Rheumatism, writes:—
“Having used only three bottles of Dr. Parker s
Rheumatic Remedy. I am pleased to say that it
has effected a complete cure, and I can thor-
oughly recommend it to anyone suffering from
Rheumatism.”
Write for free* sample anti valuable
book (postage ikl.) to —
F. PARKER,
Specialist for Rheumatism,
111 Rawson Place, Railway, Sydney.
COPPER AND ALUMINUM
kitchen utensils take on a
cheerful newness when
polished with
:jSBS
M
■gig'
;jBPf
KING OF
METAL POLISH
The wonder working,
safest and quickest of all polishes.
Two size cans at all Grocery. Hardware
and Drugstores. Look for Uie Photo on can.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your linger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression*
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be disc olored. The disease,
if allowed to continue 1 , will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
v hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. 'J’rv the great UritUli Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 37-
albert & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.
Agents— LONDON - Eng
- ELLIOTT BROS. „ ,
W. H. SOUL I’ATT IN SON & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
\vmn\v HORDERN & SONS, etc.
lOD
■
%e : fleet of flrnott* LWr *• •- ' 215?2
SATISFACTION
is a recognised fact with F.I.A.T. Lorries.
PROOF
We have received Repeat Orders from Messrs. William Arnott Ltd., for
three 3}£-4 ton and one ton F.I.A.T. Lorries.
THE REASON WHY.
TESTIMONIAL RECEIVED FROM MESSRS. WM. ARNOTT LTD.
Messrs. GARRATTS, LIMITED,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
It is now over three (3) years since we purchased our first 2-ton
E.1.A.T., which we hare used in Newcastle and Suburbs over all sorts of
roads and conditions, and it has given entire satisfaction. The repair bill
from wear and'■ tear has been practically nil.
We have calculated depreciation at the rate of 25 per cent., and
a I thou gh the Lorry is now almost written off our boohs, tee find that it
is still as good as ever. ( Signed ) ARNOTTS LTD.
F.I.A.T. Lorries will make money for you. Consult us about your work—Expert Advice free.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY-
-2 '4-3 Ton F.I.A.T. LORRY CHASSIS. Price £.910.
Ton F.I.A.T. LORRY CHASSIS Price £950.
SOLE AGENTS:
GARRATTS LTD.
173-175 Elizabeth Street.
148-150 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY
ALICK McNEIL, General Manager.
The SIGNS of SUPERIORITY
in Blue and Black Serges, Coatings,
and Dress materials are proclaimed
by the trade-marks here illustrated.
Every yard of
Genuine FOX Serges
bears these trade-marks. Ask for
“Fox” Serges —look fo'r the trade-
marks —insist on these guarantees of
quality.
Manufactured bv FOX Brothers fc Co. Ltd., Somerset,
Eng. If you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally write
the agents. Stogdale & Sons Pty. Ltd., Box 1802
G.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest store-
keeper stocking it.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial ?y
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Famous since 1337
Whybu
German
Eau-de Cologne?3f|
For nearly a century Luce s famous
Jersey Eau de Cologne has been
recognised by Connoisseurs as the
World’s standard toilet perfume, r
TUCE’S
original Jersey
Eau-de-
Colo dhe
British and est
has gained numerous Gold Medals
and Highest Awards in competition
wi h the leading Continental makes.
Its absolute purity aod refreshing
fragrance have won the unqualified en-
dorsement of the Highest Authorities.
So thing. Refreshing. Restorative.
Of all Stores, Chemists and Perfumers,
Is. 6d. to 21s. per bottle.
Australasian Agents :
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Commerce House,
MELBOURNE.
'■
>. Foremost in 1915
SPEAK SOFTLY, PLEASE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You may hear the lovers cooing when you travel in
the train,
A\ hile tiie plain home-talk of matrons echoes madly
in your brain ;
Oh, there s nothing half so sweet in life as Love's
Young Dream,
And there’s nothing half so frank in life as Mas
Old Scream !
W.A.
THE COMPUISORY DISTENER.
Ormond College (Melbourne Uni.) lias a
fine record. Eight military crosses have so
far been awarded to the A.1.F., and three
of these have gone to Ormond. In addition,
Mac Neil, the Rhodes scholar of 1914 and
now with the Highland Light Infantry,
placed another to the credit of his old col-
lege at Loos.
The same old muddling misuse of men
Out of 82 engineers in the* Muoriland Public
Works 32 have enlisted; but, with the exception of
nine of them who went as officers in the Tunnelling
Corps, they have all had to go as privates, while
youngsters with Naice parents and no knowledge of
handling men have been placed over them. Many
civil and electrical engineers have had to go in the
ranks simply because the Defence authorities abso-
lutely disregarded their special knowledge. A M.L.
Public Works engineer, who afterwards won fame
by building the Anzac pier under fire and using a
Turk shell as a monkey to do it, had to scramble
for his commission from the ranks. British engineer-
ing officers were sent to learn the Maorilander’s
original tricks; nevertheless this brainy soldier will
probably find himself junior to some penpusher
trained at Trentham at the next turn in his career.
When war broke out Arthur Guest, of
Parkes (N.S.W.), was working at Broken
Hill. Not having his fare for the long
journey round by Adelaide, yet badly want-
ing to enlist in his native town, young
Guest decided to tramp across the 250 miles
of mostly-sand to Cobar and take train
from there. Grit like that deserved better
luck. Guest was missed very early in the
fighting in Gallipoli, and now, no trace
being found of him, he is included with the
killed.
It is mentioned in a just-published report
by the Inter-State Commissioners that —
The importation of cork, bungs, rings, mats and
other manufactures in 1913 was valued at £98,000.
That the duty paid amounted to £29,938.
That there is a waste of imported material of 60
per cent, for which there is no profitable outlet.
That cork waste is utilised in other countries in
the manufacture of linoleum.
Nearly half a century ago Dr. von Mueller,
the German refugee who probably saw what
was coming and wanted to make Australia
self-contained, urged the cultivation of
the cork tree in this country. Now
the Inter-State Commissioners repeat what
the old-time botanist had to say, and
hope it will be given “serious con-
sideration.” But, on present appear-
ances, it will he given no consideration; the
Australian will go on corking up his bottle
of imported pill and covering his kitchen
with goods supplied by foreigners. Why
plant cork trees, anyway, when there are
plenty of other trees to burn down?
“Cleveland” records a fight to a finish,
Red Tape v. the Spiny Curse: —
The caretaker reported that prickly pear had
appeared on his reserve. Nothing was done. Seven-
teen months afterwards, when the curse had swamped
the fences, parade ground and kitchen garden, a very
important person happened along and decided that
the time was ripe. Nothing more was heard of him.
Later on the caretaker flung out a warning that the
pear was settling on the line of communications, and
that he had only seven months’ provisions on hand.
After a lapse of 27 days his letter was returned with
a remark that the date was written on the wrong
line —would he please amend it? lie wrathfully com-
plied with this, and went back to his job of keeping
the pear out of the house. By and bye a cheerful
person surveyed the curse from afar, and put in a
careful report on (1) the necessity for clearing the
pear, and (2) the approximate cost of the work. But
the Minister for Prickly Pear having gone election-
eering the matter slithered until a muffled cry came
through from the caretaker. The Minister at once
got busy, demanded another report, and finally
notified that the work might be done; whereupon the
cheerful person wrote back that (1) he would re-
quire more money, as the pear had grabbed more
territory during the argument, (2) that half the
pear was of the variety that the cochineal insect 'feeds
on, and (3) he could get some of the insect locally
for 2d. A cataract of correspondence ensued, and a
further lapse of many months gave the pear breath-
ing time, When the extra money was voted the
cheerful person reported that he would not require
this amount, as there was less pear to deal with, some
fool having taken it upon himself to liberate cochin,
eal insects in the early part'of the argument. He
also mentioned casually that the caretaker had re-
tired. An awful silence followed, during which the
pear, advancing from ail sides, took complete control
of the reserve.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos church bells (B.
11/5/’Ri). About the year 1807 the King
presented a peal of bells to old St. Philip's
Church. Sydney. There were eight of them,
and they hung in the round tower. One by one
they were removed by persons in authority
allegedly for various public purposes.
John Campbell, who gave a peal to the new
St. Philip’s, on condition that they were
chimed on the anniversary of his birth, gave
one of the old bells to St. Jude’s at Rand-
wick. where it now hangs. A second was on
board the old lightship Bramble at the Sow
and Pigs reef, and is now in the Harbor
Trust Office. Where are the other six? The
bell which hung in the belfry at The Rangers,
the old Mosman home of Oswald Bloxsome
and Henry Stuart Russell, now hangs at St.
Peter’s. Neutral Bay. The ancient bell
which used to “clear” old George-street
Markets from 1842 til! their demolition, is
at Woolloomooloo Fish Markets. W hen the
material of the old markets was sold the
bell was the onlv item reserved. Another
Australian peal of note is in St. Patrick’s.
Melbourne. These were founded in 1852 by
Murpliy. of “the Liberty,” Dublin. I went
with mv father, then on the Commercial
Journal, to inspect and report upon tin* gift.
Each had in raised letters the name of the
church and “Melbourne, South Australia.
The peal arrived in 1853 and-lay in the
porch of St. Francis’s, Melbourne, until hung
in St. Patrick’s in 1868,


'*\\v**‘
fe
8^
SAVE THE BABIES.
A VOICE FROM THE DISTANT BUSH.
MINNIE DOWNS, TAMBO, QUEENSLAND.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Dear Sirs, —Please send by return mail
three boxes of your Infant Teething Powders.
I have been using your powders for all my
children, eight (8), and can recommend
them to all mothers of children teething, as
my children have never been ill, nor kept
anyone awake, since I started using them.
Fisher’s Teething
Powders
An invaluable remedy for children cutting
their teeth and the Various slight derange-
ments incidental to infancy. They ensure
easy teething, promote digestion, stop sick-
ness, flatulency and pain, prevent convul-
sions, and establish the constitution.
Contain NO OPIUM, or any injurious in-
gredients.
IMPORTANT.—More than the prescribed
dose will be Harmless to any Child.
ALL . CHEMISTS.
In Boxes, 1/-; Three Boxes, 2/6
F.ll T.P.
m.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing 1 Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
, . . and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Teh 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T""
6m< WUfifdl t|c T&U
Adfc&ncmj wears. an
Uest&rz tiJur m
wait*
toUl
Of B. Allen’s
MI&IGAN
BROODY HENS for 12/0.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. J *
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Eirmire ind r, ,
ying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYD\Fv° nu * -
rectors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman ■ h
payi
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman, u
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.; Adrian w * on ' R - J-
Samuel Hordern, Esq. ‘ ' ’ K.C.;
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY
Accumulated Founds, £35,000,000. Amyial Income, £4, 770 000 Clctiiry '
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Writo f ~ ' 0,000.
and full information without delay. ’ e ior prospectus
HIGH day and holiday shoes, for wear on
extra-special occasions with the extra-
special gown, ought, one feels, to have
something distinctive about them, some-
thing that lifts them above the shoes for every-
day wear and tear. It is this distinctive, this
different look, that makes the charm of the most
elegant shoes in the Bostock range, the delightful
little black satin shoe here illustrated, for ex-
ample. One has only to glance at the picture to see
that here is something very smart and desirable.
Then think of it on, showing daintily, captivat-
ingly, beneath the flounced or scalloped hem of
the summer gown. Nothing could be more appro-
priate or more charming. And wuth all its
daintiness and piquancy, it is the most comfortable
and well-fitting of shoes, as indeed are all those
short-fronted styles, and will suit most women,
giving that ease,, lightness and coolness which the
Australian climate requires.
Bostock No.
P 6414
.o-s
None genuin
unless suinijieil
“Liostoek.”
827
Bostock shoes are unmistakable. The name is on
every pair, and they are sold at all leading stores.
Public Announcement
The Radio Health Institute
begs to intimate to its numerous patients and in-
tending patients that it has moved to larger and
better equipped quarters at Station House, Rawson
Place, Sydney.
“WE RADIATE HEALTH.”
The Radio Health Institute is under the able
direction of Prof. .Adams, M.A., LL.D., D.Sc., grad-
uate of Harvard and Columbia Universities, the
.discoverer of the marvellous V-Ray and Uni-direc-
tional Hertzian wave current, by which use lONIZED
OXYGEN is introduced into the system, expelling
death-dealing disease germs and literally permeating
the deeper tissues of the body with the vitalising
force of Etheric Electrons. This form of treatment
embraces all the recent scientific discoveries emanat-
ing from the celebrated therapeutic institutions at
Paris, Nancy, Brussels, London and New York.
. All the results of the researches and discoveries
in the realm of Electro Statics and Ray Science are
faithfully and skilfully utilised at the Radio Health
Institute.
The perfected Static generator employed by Prof.
Adams ijtnd used solely at the Radio Health Institute
is at once the most costly, modern and the most
effective instrument now in use in any part of the
world. Its marvellous curative powers transcend the
most sanguine expectations of the most far-visioned
optimist.
Prof. Adams is a scientist of exceptional ability,
and after many years painstaking study has dis-
covered a POSITIVE ozonic ray, the V-Ray, whose
potency vastly transcends the emanations of that
rare substance known as radium. The antiseptic
attributes and miracle-working powers of the V-Ray
invest it with peculiar value in the treatment of
open wounds. Eczema, Acne and every form of skin
disease speedily vanish under the healing touch of
this curative force. Atrophied muscles are restored,
and sufferers from the graver forms of disease, such
as paralysis, locomotor ataxia and rheumatoid
arthritis, find material benefit or an absolute cure.
At the Radio Health Institute we radiate health.
Pain-stricken, diseased, distressed bodies and worry-
worn minds are introduced to the sunny-souled god-
dess of health. Our patients are courteously treated,
and all receive the personal supervision' of Prof.
Adams. As only a limited number of patients can
be treated daily, disappointment may be avoided by
arranging appointments in advance. Hours, from
9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Address all communications
to Department 8., Radio Health Institute, Station
House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
DAIMLER
fifoxoß Carriages
Vehicles*’
Agricultural Tractors
t«« DAIMLER COMPANY «•*
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
What our Troops Think
Holdsworthy Camp. 7th October, 191°-
S. Fielder, Esq., Ilandwick. Dear Sir—- 11
behalf of our Company I wish to state trm
Wj have derived great benefit from 3°
famous Exzerma. A great number or o
Company suffered from ire feet cam.,
through marching ; also- sunburn and cnapp
lips, and were quickly cured by Exzerma..
Believe me, Yours faithfully, Y
Corporal Brown of the 10th, A.I-E.'•
All Chemists and Druggists, or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5/-, 2 6 11
POLI-SHINE Oil Compound Polish
A DEODORISER KILLS GERMS. A UStrCtf/CM-mClt/e.
For Cleaning and Polishing Furniture, Pianos, Linoleums, Hardwood
Floors, Leather Work, Automobiles, Woodwork, &e.
Does not leave a sticky surface. Restores Varnish to its original brilliancy.
From leading Stores in all States and New Zealand, or .
POLI-SHINE MOP CO., 48 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS:—Melbourne: Patou & Co., 113 Elizabeth St. Adelaide: J.
Morley, Grenfell St. Brisbane: A. Moore, Creek St. Perth: H. G.
Threlkeld, William St. N. Zealand: Blair, Heed & Co., Ltd., Wellington-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) uill be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be retained
unless stamps accompany.
C. 11.8.: Don’t know; all depends on the
award, you, are working under. Consult the union.
Stuart Burns Coghill: Have your own way,
.‘non. Here is your opinion of us printed in full:—
IT.T.H.: Verses no good K.W.: “The Stream”
lias some sparkle, but not enough. . . .F.A.C.: You
have our sympathy. But not our approval.... A.L.:
You’re a cheerful person. Apply your question to
your own verse.... Vir: Utterly flat and common-
place. .. .Ilmo: Pretty du11.... V.S.: Couldn’t ’ you
find a subject with a smile in it?. .. .W.H.D.:
Doesn’t convince... .Mick: No; it's too crude* ...
O. Can’t read it... .G.R.H.: Oh no, we didn’t
murder the verses. You did it yourself. AVe merely
buried them... . J.8.M.: “Touch his pocket, find
your friend,” isn’t bright. What about the other
proverb: “Lend a friend a fiver and you’ve lost
him” ?.... J,A.: “Farewell” not quite up....G.8.:
“Sunday at Home” not suitable... .R.J.Y.: Sheep-
dip for fowls doesn’t appeal to our poultry expert.
. ...A.J.G.: Flat-feet joke exhausted a year ag0....
A.H.: Passed it on to the two you mentioned....
1787 (France): And good luck to y0u.... Bill
(Suez): Ditto. .. .Revilo: Thanks. But now tell us,
will you, why universal service isn’t democratic ?
Democracy is simply government by the people—all
the people. And if all the people have the "power,
all the people must also have the responsibility. .. .
P. : Good sentiment ; but verse not up-. .. .
M.A.: Verse too rough.... R.L.W.: “An Appeal” is
neither verse prose. .. .A.F.: “Mistress of
Talaba” an insipid business. .. .Tambo: “Raw
Material” wants .better literary cooking. .. .H.C.D.:
Sorry; not up. . . .AA'.M.J.: Verse correct—‘and feeble.
. ...N.S.G.: No good. .. . Spero: Shouldn’t be sur-
prised if you do. Try again, at any rate....
Yanco: Just what we want—tilings people don't
know about people they do knew. .. .F.A.P,: We
like the lines from a dugout in Dacyeville best:—
■. . .M.E.M.: Translations no use. .. .Bon: Yes,
there’s promise M.8.P.: “The Kiss” held for in-
quest J.H.C.S.: Parochial verse of no interest to
Australians. E.H.: “Cry from the City” nearly
up 8.M.: No sign of “Boy Scouts and Old Union
Jack.” Judging by its title, we’re not inclined to
weep long or 10ud.... Tar: We like to pay for all
that we print—whether it’s printed in this column
or anywhere else.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) ,
CORRESPONDENTS.
Timothy: You don’t know aifything about artistic
plumbing. .. .D.J.K.: Sad scratches.... Eric R.:
You’ve got a long way to go, but there is no harm
*in starting Harold C.: “As lam 15 years old,
my drawings will probably improve later.” We
hope 50.... Hopeful: Very elementary. ... H.S.G.:
Don’t want your sort of originality. .. .F.S.:
Destroyed Private R.: Impossible F.T.S.: Good
idea —worth a pound to you.
A note from Buenos Aires:—
Buenos Aires is full of derelicts and dead-beats
from every land under the sun. The other morning,
fresh off the boat that was carrying me from Maori-
land, I connected with one. “Good-mornin’, sorr,”
he said. “Do yell spake English? But av coorse
yeh do! No, no, sorr; hould off a minute an’ let
me shpake w No! Oi don’t want anny job, an’ Oi’m
not goin’ to tell yeh that Oi haven’t aiten annything
for the lasht tin days. Mahn, dear, Oi haven’t
enough appetoite to dale wid a divilled shnoipe this
blessid minute. Oi’m afther spindin’ the noight an’
a few nickels wid a frind below at the docks, an’, be
all the goats in Oireland (an’ 'that same is a loively
oath), I have a,tongue on me loike .the lid av Hell
this day, an’ it’s a dhrink I want- -n dhrink wid a
boite to id loike ky-ann pepper or the tongue av a
British Consul (Hell to the sow] of thim!). For
the love av Moike, sorr, wan dhrink, jusht wan
shmall noggin to save the life av- me.” The appeal
hit me where I lived, and I weakened and handed
him 50 cents, and told him to go into the buffet
and buy a good stiff whisky. “A whisky at 50
cints a . toime is id! Ah, thin, sorr, divil a thing
would I like betther; but thim days is pasht for the
loike av me. But there’s an Oytalian doive round
the corner where I can get foive or six canas for
the same money, an’—savin' yer prisince, sorr—Oi’ll
be the dhrunkest an’ happiest mahn in Boness Arees
befoie tin o clock, plaze God.” I never saw him
again, but I’m sure he did his best.
Melbourne’s current mystery surrounds a
party on a train returning to town from a
race-meeting. To pass the time a little game
ot hazards was suggested, and the Coroner
was subsequently told by some of the
players that one man had, at Sydenham,
unaccountably left the carriage and stepped
along the footboard towards the engine
That was the last they saw of him. But
this doesn’t explain the fact that when his
body was found on the line, there was money
in his severed hand and loaded dice in his
pocket, while coins bestrewed the track
further back. The police are to inquire
further, with probably no useful result,
except to hint to persons inclined that way
that even in select circles it isn’t healthy to
play with loaded bones.
They told me you had good manners
A helping hand to beginners
Some people tell awful crammers
It is the way of all sinners.
I sent you a piece on Anzac land
Did it ever come to your hand
Or was it past out of command
And looked on as dirty black sand.
Your sarcastic old Bulletin
Once a week only circulatin’
Is run bv a crowd of old women
Too knock-kneed for any fightin’.
If you see a suit of khaki
And a kind and loving face
It’s a fighting soldier
Of Australia’s daring race.
To the fields of storm and rage
Amid the falling snow
They leave their happy homes
Because they have to go.
To fight for their freedom
And Australia’s fame
They haves fought and fell
And made, Australia’s name.
In battles they have fought
And showed their spirit to
In the lives of Gallipoli
Like them of soldiers true.


11l PONI
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com-
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A US TRAHAN A GENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
The Lake Breeze Motor
Cooling Fan
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, handsome,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity and is portable.
Send for circular. Order
early.
ADDISON PARKER,
34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
Gifts for
Friends in Camp.
We have made a special feature of gifts for
our soldier boys, and at present hold an
unrivalled stock from which to select some
practical but pleasant memento for your
soldier friend before he goes off to the Front.
Note these values: —
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case 4/-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG &, AITHEN,
|654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.|
Established over 30 Years.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
fagged, try a glass of
Horl i c k' s Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick’s at
the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent
on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 20
Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
i K
o
5*
0
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
nwvi»> 0 *. rs a “eld of 1,11 Pounded scope to tlie investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
piospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
A Watch Bracelet
Will Please Her —
2396
IF YOU BUY IT AT
STEWART DAWSON’S
This High-grade KEYLESS LE\ Ell
WATCH is a wonderfully accurate little
timekeeper, with fully-jewelled movement.
Mounted on Patent Expanding Bracelet.
Price in 9ct. Gold £6/10/-
Also in 15ct. Gold £9/10/-
Others at £5/10/-, £7/7/-,
£lO/10/-, £l4/10/-
EVERY PRESENT SEEKER
should possess a copy
of our COMPLETE
CATALOGUE of Jewel-
lery, Watches and Rings.
Post free to all who write.
BATTALION COLORS RINGS, showing the colors of your Soldier
Friend’s Battalion. All Battalion Colors kept in stock. These
charming Memento Rings are in great favor.
Ladies’ sizes, in 9ct. Gold 21 /-
Gent’s sizes, in 9ct. Gold 25/-
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 4*2 George Street, Sydney
“Pyjama time
is his time for using
Qilverß
Tooth Powder
m
v
7
z
z
/vJ\
\\C2
£
That’s fine!
Everyone, from Grandpa down to
Little Johnnie, finds Winter nights
pass pleasantly when there’s a
“Gramophone” in the home. That
is because its music is GOOD
music—there’s nothing harsh or
discordant about either vocal or
instrumental renderings on the
There is sure to be
a dealer nearby.
Ask him to play
the “Gramophones.”
Instrument cata-
logue, record lists
and name of near-
est accredited
dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark
(t
GRAMOPHONE
The popular Horn “Gramophones” are sold by all
accredited dealers at these prices:—
Intermediate, with M.G.H £7/15/-
“Monarch Junior,” with M.G.H.. . . £lO/10/-
‘‘Monarch Senior” (Oak) £l7/10/-
“Monarch Senior” (Mahogany) ... £l9
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
EORGC HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating'.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
The Famous 12-Horsepower
KERMATH
MARINE and STATIONARY ENGINE.
4 Cylinders —4 Cycle Medium Speed
Complete Equipment, including High-
tension Magneto.
Price from £6O up.
Write for Catalogues.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Invincible Motor Construction Co.
LTD.
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TRADE
Ms
MARK
Ideal Hunting Knife
and Safety Axe
Two articles indispensable to the
comfort and ofttimes the safety of outers.
Examples of the practical worth of
MARBLE’S “Sixty Sporting: Specialties.”
Marble's Safety Axe
—the handiest tool a sportsman
ever carried. The nickle plated,
spring - hinged guard, lined
with soft lead, protects the blade
and folds down into the handle. Blade
of best tempered steel. Slips easily
into your side pocket where it is out
of the way but always at hand.
Marble’s Ideal Hunting Knife
is just the all-round knife you need. Es-
pecially designed for all hunting uses.
Made from the finest cutlery steel, care-
fully ground and tempered. Every knife
guaranteed. See these goods at your dealer.
We will gladly Bend you postpaid complete
illustrated catalog of MARBLE’ 8* * Sixty Sport-
ing Specialties’ ' on request.
Marble Arms & Mf g. Co.
611 Oelta Ay.,Gladstone,Mich.,U.S. A. \
Cable Address “Marble" Gladstone '
Australian and New Zealand
Representative
HARRY MOLDEN. Box 1349.
Guarded
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e a'rance
with
KAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
S 3 different shades.
Post patter?; of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9.
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
23 St 23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERT.EY
OTRANTO
OTWA Y
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR ATI
.. Triple-Screw.
. .Twin-Screw
15,000 Regd. Tons.
IS.OOO - „
12,130
12,129
12,121
12,077
12,036
9,023
5,252
Kitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabins s-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sidney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAVING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM I /-
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3£ per cent, on balances up
to £5OO, except on accounts opened with-
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
-- Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Generai. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TR A NSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196.108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37ThreadnecdleStreet, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysagiit, Esq.; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0 I
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.609 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —TV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking 80.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directors:
George ,T. Cohen. Esq. .. • .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dinns, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brknan, Esq.
General Manager: H. 11. Massif..
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South W T ales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of neui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares.. .• ••
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital .. • • • •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
750,000
992,295
500,000
2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, M^STffPi B f T^ S D c gTEAMLRS TRADING BETWEEN
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT .
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conJ.inctum
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN KO<
NIAGARA FATES, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
Leave Auckland.
Leave Sydney, 3 p.m.
JULY 6
AUG. 3
AUG. 31
SEPT. 28.
JULY 11
AUG. 8
SEPT. 5
OCT. 3
f Twin Screw.
W 1 111 VHUiim i/v .
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA _ CIHNA AND JAPAN, OR A IA
SUEZ CANAE OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WEEEINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada or v .
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Erne.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
♦MAITAI, 20th July. * MOAN A, 17th August.
♦Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—l3th July, 10th August.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL. SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £B3.
Winter TsHili Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva.,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga.
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP 00. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in f
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
send for further partic.ilars to
m
- .
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and - *
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
JUNE 21, JULY 12, AUG 2, AUG 23.
Apply:— O CEA NT C STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia, ” “ Westralia, ”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And AH Ports.
BANK
OF NFW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors
£3,500,000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James TV Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W.
The Hon. Reginald J.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard 'Binnie, Esq.
Fosbery, (J.M.U., M.L.C.
Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office -29 Threadneedle St , E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.'
Commonwealth
J£ank oi ßustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
3%
OOCSP °* dn
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorernor. June, 1915 DENISJN MILLER, Governor
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and f
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, July i an( j
•July 29.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, June 17
MORIALTA, June 24
KUPARA, July l
ti,lmTportT(\'=i“SVh r 'r iSs®? 1 '
on all services subject to conditionXh'TT
ascertained on application at the Company's 0ffl " be
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD
Agents, 6 BItIDGK STUISKT. SYDNEY.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE
Sailings as follows (circumstances
permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
* CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
north.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons)
Leaves Sydney June 17.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 21
Leaves Sydney June 24.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June “>8
Leaves Sydney July 1. “ '
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 24.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agenis.
Offices at all Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAV AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON DAY, COED'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Comuination tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BItISUANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer tu Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa. .
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 Ss. Gel. : >econd-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Colonial mutual [He
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments a.:u
Annuities without Mutual Liability;
Accident. Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,W.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indeteas-
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon. C. J. M.L.C.. Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Calverts
lief Soap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. It
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablst boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
r ade by/' C: Calvert if Co., Manchester. Enf
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTME"
In use since 1596.
Write for Book
WntefoTSoot. CURES *"‘ e flK SIGHI
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINCi EYELASHES, s En<l
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road.
Insist on Singleton s refuse au


©
■CC^.
Put all your eggs in one basket
and then watch that basket.
(Carnegie.)
Many people can do several things fairly well, but nobody can do many
things superlatively well.
This is what Michelin recognises, and it is why WC concentrate
the whole cf our attention upon the manufacture of pneumatic
tyres only.
Michelin
are superlatively good tyres,
because we have put all our eggs in one basket, and do not spread our
efforts over the manufacture of various articles like g If balls, rubber
shoes, rubber hose pipes, hot-water bags, etc. etc.
All the brains of our chemists and engineers are concentrated upon
one task —the task of making the Michelin Tyre the best tyre in the world.
If you are not a user of Michelin Tyres, try them!
Wc don’t fear comparisons ; wc solicit them.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Garages.
9 A. ISIS
Little Lectures
by Nurse 'Winca.rn>s.
(Lecture Vo 8.)
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an
intricate network of telegraph
wires. Controlled and nour-
ished by a portion of the
brain—known as the nerve
centres —the delicate thread-
like nerves rad ate in all di- |
rections throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres
are capable of continually
supplying nourishment to the
nerves, the nerves will remain
strong and healthy. But
directly the nerve centres be-
c me weakened by overwork,
I worry or anxiety, they are un-
I able to transmit the necessary
| nourishment, and the nerves
b ;come worn out and on
edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia —you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
ditio 1 there is nothing to equal
Because, being; a powerful
nerve food, 1 Wincirnis gets
right to the root of the trouble,
and, by creating a supply of
new nerve force, stimulates
and re-vitalises the whole
nervous system. Try ‘Win-
carnis ’ for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000 !
Doctors recommend it
Begin to get well.
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists ana
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
GAILLEI9I6 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR—
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
The motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern you l us
press the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engi
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4=CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST MODELS JUST LANDED.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
THE MERIT OF A "PLOM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering the “Plum” masterpiece. All the science in the
world can’t make a keener blade, or one that keeps its edge so long.
SEND FOII A “PLUM” RAZOR TO-DAY.
PRICE 10/0 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Randle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
6 54 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
° ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
i
at
A Steel-Lined
Cartridge
means a stvength-lined cartridge
“Nitro Club”
Shotgun Cartridges
a lade in 10. «. ,6. are steel-1 i n e d
* so, 24 ond 28 gauge abo V e the
powder charge
—g i V i n g
strength to
the ease and
' power and
penetration
_ to the shot
charge. Also an even pellet
distribution that makes for good patterns
and a heavy bag.
Loaded in London ■vilh the popular Powders. Obtainable
from leading dealers' everywhere—catalogue post-free on reques .
Remington Armvs-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolwo rth Building, New York City
St. Stephens Kipuse, Westminster, S. W., London
Australian Manager, D. D. BRI ANT, Box «86, Melbourne.
mmtmm
t
&
few#
w
r :
ye
Can
Restore the Voice with
EVANS’
antisepticTH ROAT
Pastilles
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
r ANS Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.


Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position Easterly Aspect
Overlooking: Botanical Cardens.
"■'■ii . MRS. A. FIXXI GAN, Proprietress.
Kitchener has gone, but his presence
remains with his armies in the shape of nis
undaunted spirit of persistence and deter-
mination, asserts that wise spirit, King
George IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
Champion” Machinery
Has no Equal on the Market.
Steel Stone
Crushers, Steel
W i a r d Road
Plows, Whee' and
Drag Scoops,
Road Rollers,
Road Graders,
Concrete Cjrts,
Concrete Mixers,
Steel Tubular
Barrows, etc.
Carotin Machinery Co.
STANLEY STREET. WEST MELBOURNE,
and
Angel Place, Sydney.
ADELAIDE & BRISBANE.
99
6) 'lf A .
Australasia supplies the Sjoj
wool, England the labour and skill, '
lor the world’s finest Stockings and Socks,
Quality Stockings
and Socks for
Ladies, Children and
Men.
nsist on Jason Stockings and Socks —which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the
Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters
L everywhere. In case of difficulty write t 0
JASON
HOSIERY
CO.,
Aa 64
LEICESTER.
ENG.
IN BANANA LAND
E. J. Stevens, who retires from the chair-
manship of directors of Brisbane Courier
and associated papers, took the helm in the
troublous times following ’93. whqp every-
thing in Bananaland was in the melting-pot
and even the future of the Courier was un-
certain. He not only pulled the paper
through, but leaves it one among the most
profitable dozen in Australia. Although
he quits the chair of the Courier, he is still
trustee for the most important shareholders.
“Itan”: Weather-propheting has quite a
number of apostles in Bananaland. The
usual madness is to issue predictions for
the whole season ; then, when the weather
during a certain number of weeks happens
to fit in with the forecast, the fulfilment
of the prophecy is boosted in the
papers. Of course, not a word is
said about the other 999 tips that
don’t come off. The impostors are certain to
hit it sometime and somewhere in the State.
For instance, this writer reckoned this was
going to be a month of prosperity and
drought. Here you are: the sugar “districts
are about to gather a record crop, while no
finer maize areas have been seen at Atherton ;
but one big spot in the South-West and
another in the Central-West are as dry as a
Methodist conference.
From a travelling correspondent:-
Tropical Australia should take off its simhat to
Mrs. John Hill, of Glen Boughton, near Cairns. At
the Cairns and district show this lady produced a
single-handed exhibit running into hundreds of items,
ranging from soaps and candles to crystallised fruits.
Seven varieties of marmadale, conserves of grena-
<l ;lla, pawpaw and vegetable-marrow,- candied peel
of four varieties, IS kinds of confectionery, pre-
served’ ginger, fruit butter, orange spice, ground
coffee, extract of coffee, nine sorts of pickles, vinegar,
six different sauces and chutnevs, dried fruits, banana
flour, prepared arrowroot, bottled fruit, preserved
vegetables, and an extensive selection of home-made
wines, ciders, effervescent drinks and liqueurs were
included in the production of this 011 c woman from
one North Queensland farm. The spare time left on
her hands she dedicates to housework and a con-
siderable share in the management of a large dairy
farm. It would pay tropical Australia to engage
such a woman as travelling demonstrator in the
art of living comfortably at small cost from one's
own resources. The Northern housewife has
become so accustomed to getting everything
eatable and drinkable out of a tin or a bottle
that she has come to regard these as the natural
envelopes of all food materials. Mrs. Hill at a
thousand a year would be an infinitely better invest-
ment-towards the permanent settlement of the semi-
Tropics than a roomful of agricultural lecturers,
tobacco experts or horse-doctors.
.Tames Carden Collins, who answered the
bell-bird's call *1 Yeppoon a few days ago,
was one of. Bananaland’s oldest cattle men.
llis dad was a navy captain, who brought
the infant Jimmy to Australia in 1829.
Young Collins hit out for himself in Bauaua-
land in 1842, and has been going strong
there ever since. lie gradually got together
Tambourine and Maroon stations, and later
on added properties at Baffle Creek and
Torilla. For a spell he was cattle selector
for the Central Queensland Meat Export
Co. Incidentally Jimmy Collins was a top-
notch horseman, skilful with his lists, and
had a memory that wouldn’t let go.
In its hurry to become a fishmonger, the
Ryan Government has given itself a rotten
advertisement for loyalty to the land that
pays its screw. This is how Acting-Premier
Theodore put the matter to a metal-trades
deputation which stirred him up for propos-
ing to go outside Australia for a trawler: —
The Government wants to put a trawler into com-
mission as early as possible, and has been endeavor-
ina' to purchase one overseas, thus far without
success.
If Theodore and other bad Australians con-
tinue to rake up excuses for going outside
the Commonwealth whenever they have work
to do, how long do they think it will he before
Australia will be able to do anything in a
hurry? Theodore has a lot of luck that he
didn’t have a mother who acted towards him
when ho was an infant as Theodore is acting
towards Australian industry in its infancy.
ALL WRONG.
FRIEND: “TFof’s wrong, Bill?”
THE MISANTHROPE: “ Wrong! I lorst a bloomin' bet, ’ad to s hout drinks, got a bad
'aff-crown in me change, and then blow me if I didn't knock over me beer!”
John Hop, of Queensland, is a very
cheerful person these days. Unionism has
been good to Robert in his brief experience
of it. It gave him the eight-hour day to
begin with; now it has persuaded the Home
See. to _ insure that the eight shall be
worked in a lump instead of in two shifts
of four. As a further concession the Large
1' eet of the North will have alternate Sun-
days free.
Inspector Kelly, one of the best-known of
Bananaland’s police officers, has signed his
last charge-sheet. He was on sLx months’
leave at the time of passing out, and was
putting it in at Stanthorpe. Kelly knew
the State better than most men, having pur-
sued the law-breaker from the boulevards of
Cloncurry to the wilds of Brisbane, via
Mackay, Mount Morgan, Charters Towers,
Childers and Townsville.
“Viking” is torn with doubts: —
After reading of the many methods of converting
prickly-pear into gold—-from paint to potash, from
paper to printers’ ink—l’m wondering why
the blessing is still referred to as a curse.
At odd times I have also seen prickly-pear
advocated as good horse and cattle feed, and heard
that pigs fattened on pear fruit are equal to
corn-fed. If it is such a valuable asset why the
feverish desire to wipe the blessing out? I also
want to know why Bananaland’s rural population
still heaves curses at it, when they have hut to take
up a 500-acre pear selection and retire on the
wealth. Is it that the papers conspire to pull my
leg?
“Viking”: Naturally the agitation to
bottle up Bung has spread to Bananaland,
and extensive escapes of gas are threatened.
If the Ryan Government wants to prove that
it is more serious in its job than the Labor
Ministries of the other States, it might con-
sult that portion of its platform which
reads: “Nationalisation of the liquor
traffic,” etc. That wasn’t secretly shoved on
the platform a fortnight ago, either; it has
been there for upwards of a quarter of a
century. Isn’t there one Labor Govern-
ment in Australia with a good enough
opinion of the Labor policy to even ask the
people whether they want it?
For 18 years Rockhampton has had a
permanent branch of the Supreme Court;
but business has been so poor that most of
the time the resident Judge has had to look
to Brisbane Courts for a job. The Govern-
ment now proposes to put the shutters up,
and Central Bauanalanders take it very
quietly. Yet once the mere mention of such
a thing would have set all the Separationists
threatening Brisbane with every curse right
up to civil war.
Wafted to Beinga recently, Mrs. Tareha,
sen., of the Ngati-Kahungurus, one of the
best-known chieftainesses in Maoriland, and
an old amazon who saw war from the firing
line. She fought against the Haushaus at
Omaranui and was trying to get a bullet into
Te Ivooti when Karauria was killed.
Whereupon she personally carried that
stricken chief a mile over broken country to
a place of safety—a real Gallipoli perform-
ance.
The dejected shadow leaning against the
verandah outside the closed Sydney pub
shifted its feet and spoke. “Yers, this ere
six o’clock closin’ is right enough w’ile we re
gt ttin' as good as we give. But you wait
rill we’ve got somethin’ ter celebrate, an all
this blanky sacks an’ ashes is up a pole.
Then you’ll find blanky wowsers smashm
th’ pubs ter get somethin’ ter celebrate on.
W’y ain’t we drinkin’ now? Becos :we amt
got nothin’ ter celebrate! You wait till we
get somethin’ —then you'll see ’ow much six
o'clock ole Sydney’li want!”
My Disinfectant Dear.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I remember, well remember, the cold corner near the
pail;
Where 1 used to wait and listen for your footsteps in
the dark,
For the quick, caressing greeting and the kiss on
firm lips set ;
And the smell of disinfectant I can never quite
forget.
From the house of pain and healing, when your long
day's work was done,
You would laughing come to meet me, when there
was no Other One ;
And 1 loved you—loved you —loved you ! — s to dis-
traction —to despair,
While the smell of disinfectant lingered subtly in
your hair.
You were, full of “my profession,’’ and your patients
were my foes ;
When you petted them and pitied, all the savage in
me rose;
When, involved in our embraces, we "took chances in
the park,
Something moral (disinfected!) hung about 11s in the
dark.
Dear, your two eyes danced with mischief, and for
months I couldn’t rest
If you were not there beside me with your head upon
my breast.
How 1 loaded you with flowers as the seasons came
and went!
lint the good old disinfectant beat in turn each
tender scent.
We escaped each other, Helen! I was far too poor
to wed,
And you shelved me, like a darling, for some other
beau instead.
1 m afraid I quite forget you (time is moving on
so fast!),
Till I smell some disinfectant -sacred fragrance o
the Past!
qukkxslaxd.
ALFRED H.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, .June 10, 191(5
Mv I>KAU Tuargomindaii,—l
The most exciting event in this drab ,
was the children’s recruiting march. m
hx. and Lady Goold-Adams (the latter
wearing something foamy and whim
an adorable coat of sealskin), Comma, w
Brigadier-General Lee, several
gentlemen 111 whiskers and a f™ „ ■
clothes citizens reviewed the army
platform near the G.1’.0. As thev mlvS. ‘
the children uplifted shrill voices in £
and distributed leaflets recording the mim’
her ot fathers and brothers at the 1W
that each particular school could boast o
cnrlojul of little girls brightad the tura!
out, at the critical moment when thev should
have been politely saluting the Gove™,!
with their Hags, by bringing down the til
her supports with resounding thwacks 0 n
each other s heads. I suppose it will al
lielp to win the war. By the way. I , ln ,w
stand that the Federal Government is goim,
to adopt, this method for getting i n relent
next year. The income tax is to be abolished
and we are to have children’s Treason'
marches instead. UIJ
r The 'Wattle Day League has decided to
spend the money raised on Wattle Dav this
year on artificial limbs for disabled soldiers
July 7is the date. But if the Federal Gov’
eminent decides to do its dutv and enuin
the maimed, the money will be used in some
other way for the benefit of the battered.
George Barriskill, of the C.S.R. Co., has
been killed in action in France. “Bam”
was a popular Grammar School boy, and a
good sport. He was of the Bundaber?
Barriskills.
Young Groom, son of Fred, of the
Toowoomba Chronicle, and a nephew of
Littleton, has been wounded.
Mrs. Bob Bell was the lady soloist at the
Brisbane Apollo Club concert last Tuesday,
ilrs. Bell sang from a gold brocaded crepe
de chine frock, and collected enough vege-
tables to stock a shop. Cecil Houghton
should also have sung, but he was at home
nursing a sore throat; so veteran Joe
Bottger and the khakied Magness Fisher
were appointed to the vacancy.
()n Wednesday night the invalids at the
Kangaroo Point military hospital were enter-
tained at a concert. Eva Webber and Xitu
Collins, two of the principals in “La Fille
du Tambour Major,” Joe Bottger, Robert
Wish art, Lance-Corporal Magness Fisher
and a couple of others delighted the dam-
aged Billjims.
011 Friday the Church of England Sol-
diers’ Help people raised over £360 for
their Soldiers’ Club. They called it Laven-
der Day, and all the helpers wore some
of the old-fashioned color, and sold the frag-
rance fresh plucked or shrouded in muslin
sachets.
Pretty Vera Atkinson was married to
W. P. Watts at the Thompson Estate
Church last Wednesday. The moon is shin-
ing in the North.
Gone to burrow under the Hun, James
Loekie W ilson, of Calliope and Galliungal
stations, and until recently owner of Raglan
station, Dungog (N.S.W.). He contributed
heavily to the patriotic funds, but when his
junior partner and 11 employees at Calliope
and dozens of others in the district com-
menced to clink the sixpenny-pieces in their
spurs, he handed his 25-h.p. car to the Red
Cross and fell in with the Mining Corps. lie
carried three bars on his arm when he left.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


MM
1/1
wssmk s *'* JB
. /
Vico.Admiral SIR MVID BEATTY
Who has outclassed the
ELnemy on every occasion.
I—l
w
>r
F<w


An Admired Style.
Maenaught’s “Blaxland” Boot, Semi-
American Freak Shape, in Patent
Calf Skin, with Dull Kid Tops,
roomy Toe, good, comfortable fitting.
A Boot for best wear . . .... 25/-
' * We Pay Postage.
Write for Catalogue.
m
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 Ring Street, SYDNEY.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy bat will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but cftet taking your treatment for V, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.’’
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXIOM.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Si-urf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd.,Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
&
Air Cushions
For SOIDIFRS
Cloth
Each Searfc Sewn
All Valves Guaranteed-
Complete with Bag-
-10/6, 12/6 each
ROTHWELL’S LTD.
Name Stamped Free of Charge
l dward Street,
BRISBANE I
m
n
Three little merry maids are we.
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, free.
Hear our bright and merry talk,
Note our light and springy walk,
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls
We’re the lion ‘ Jelloid ’ Girls I
After taking IRON ‘jELLOIDS’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Miss J. F Dubery, Southall, writes: —“I find your Iron 'Jelloids ’
“a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable. I always take Iron
“ 'Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit ‘ run-down,’ and after taking a few I feel
“ a marked change ; it is a splendid form of taking Iron.”
A fortnight’s trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists thrcughont Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence if Market Sts., Sydney.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the* less ’‘treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
Photo: Wrather
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. rais
simple treatment is then repeated a re"
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of taimnalite and ruix it w
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to
hair with a small sponge for a few mg
and the greyness will gradually disappe* •
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and dots
not injure the hair in any way. It na s
used for generations with most satistac <>.
results by those who have known
formula.
To Kill of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered,
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatmen
designed not only to instantly remove
hair but also to actually kill the roots s
the growth will not return. About anj
of pheminol, obtainable from the c ’
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who'wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to a . g
fatty matter. No discomfort wha for
caused by their action; in fact, e. v
the loss of superfluous fat and tn
of ‘'fitness” so created, you woulcl joing
aware that these little berries w
their work. , . , are
Local inquiry shows that elynol b
not very well known in this cou . •
the demand is increasing daily,. .jiy
chemist can quickly procure them 1
requested to do so. _
jllE
If any illustration appearing m
Bulletin takes your fancy,
Manager, who will quote you price 01 _
Will Dyson lias opened another exhibition
of war cartoons in London, showing the
originals of his Land and W ater and
Daily Sketch cartoons. The Kaemaekers
boom has not affected the Australian in
the least, the Daily Sketch having brought
him a new public. Mrs. Will (Ruby Lind-
say) is now chief cartoonist on T.P.’S
Weekly.
Geraldine Farrar, the Yankee soprano
whose favorite press gag for some time was
that she had come to an unalterable deter-
mination never to marry, has succumbed to
a Dutch mummer, Lou Tellegen. The lady
used to say: “One can be a splendid woman
and a great artist, but not a great artist and
a mother.” Hers is evidently a case in which
hope has triumphed over inexperience.
The Era, London’s oldest theatrical
weekly, has changed hands, brewer Sir
William Bass having got tired of his jour-
nalistic toy. When “Tipperary” had
moulted its head and tail, what was left
was the Era. Feldman, the publisher of
the tremendous early wartime boom, made
enough money out of it and a few other
things to finance himself and the Era’s old
editor into the paper.
The first lot of limestone to be used as
flux for the Broken Hill Prop.’s Newcastle
steelworks was shipped from Tasmania the
other day, when 2000 tons were shot into
the steamer Odlancf in three hours. That
was at Devenport. The stone is tipped into
an 8000-ton bin, with 50 shoots about 6ft.
apart, which feed it into the ship’s holds.
Two inventive Maorilanders have solved
another problem—the soldering of alu-
minium. They got a company behind them
and w T ere sent to London, where they obtained
an almost indisputable patent, as well as
getting the glad hand from scientific and
commercial men. The War Office asked
for a demonstration at the \\ oolwich
arsenal, and was so satisfied that it grabbed
the patent and started to make tests on its
own account.
“Qwertyuiop”: The late W. Shakspeare
must have been rather a busy man. He
was in the play writing game for about
20 years, and wrote 40 plays. That means
a “Hamlet” or a “Richard III.” every six
months. The late Sophocles was also
fully employed. He kept the theatrical
managers going for 62 years, and is believed
to have composed 119 plays—again one
masterpiece every six months. That also
was the rate of the comparatively-late
Moliere’s production. Ibsen, on the other
hand, took two years apiece for his various
glooms.
“Exile” from somewhere in the Pacific: —
There is a hyphenated German-American-Jew on
board returning home with a bag full of Australian
orders from wholesale warehousemen for softgoods.
His lists tot up 600,000 dollars (say, £120,000),
and a good deal of it is for slop clothing to be
made in Chicago sweat shops. If one commercial
traveller on one trip can sell so much Amurrikun
stuff, what will Australia look like when the glad
news becomes known to all the other makers of
ready-made clothing, boots and hats in the U.S.A. ?
Nothing but a minimum tariff on softgoods of 75
p.c. will prevent that one hundred millions of
Amurrikuns working three shifts a day to send us
everything we use, from feeding bottles to brass-
bound caskets for the final act. The Union S.S. Co.
has 12 cargo boats busy at present bringing goods
from San Francisco to Australia; and they’d be
better engaged carrying Australian wheat to
Europe. We can't get freight for our exports with
which to pay our debts, but there are ships in
plenty fetching wearing apparel we ought to be
making ourselves.
“J.F.H.” i A curiosity of the Inky Way
is a t little paper, Free Belgium, which is
published right under the nose of Yon Biss-
ing. the German Governor of the Desolated
Kingdom. Von Bissing has been moving
Heaven, earth and the other place in frantic
efforts to discover the writer, printer and
circulator of the accursed thing, but all in
vain. It has no appointed dates of appear-
ance, but Von Biss, and all the principal
officials of the invading Huns promptly re-
ceive copies when it does appear. Each
number —37 have been issued to date—opens
with a defiant letter to Biss.; then follow
letters from the Front, selections from British
and French journals, cutting gibes, galling
witticisms, and funny stories at the expense
of the Bodies in general and the Governor in
particular.
“F.H.R.”; For 20 years I followed min-
ing in N. S. Wales and was not aware until
five years back that a holder of a miner’s
right could take up two acres of land on
any mining reserve or temporary common
for residential purposes. In many in-
stances these holdings can be converted into
special leases or residential areas of from
20 to 40 acres. I have at present a 10-acre
block held on a 15-year lease at an annual
rental of half a crown an acre. Half of the
area is good cultivation, with an unfailing
water supply. On this patch I grow pota-
toes, turnips, cabbages, cucumbers, toma-
toes, melons, squash, marrow, peas, beans,
beet, rhubarb, lettuce, cherries, quinces,
peaches, nectarines, apples, plums, pears,
grapes, cows, babies, a pig or two, and fowls,
and honey is in the bush for the taking.
The only time a woman cannot look after
a small place like this is at ploughing and
sowing time —say a fortnight a year. Yet
people are herded in towns and growling
about the cost of the steak and loaf. Let
the bush toiler, or a lot of him that can get
a pocket-handkerchief farm, shake himself
to see if he is awake and grasp the oppor-
tunities that lie to hand.
According to a review of the world’s
wheat-production, compiled bv the Victorian
Department of Agriculture, Australia i£
1910 came seventh on the world’s list, with
lio million bushels, and garnered more than
the estimated harvest of Germany and Aus-
tria combined. The world’s crop was a
record, and so was that of Australia; and
the Department of Agriculture reckons that
next season the position “will be in favor of
the producer.” Which means that the Aus-
tralian farmer, if he works as hard at seed-
ing this year as he did last, will get a
bigger reward than the one that is verv
gradually coming to him through the Gov-
ernment.


. .3
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
Is the best medicine known lor the treatment of croup.
“Mother’s most anxious time is when her child has croup. Nothing is more pitiful to
her than to listen to the choking cough and watch the little one gasping for breath.
But there is no need for alarm when she uses Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
The great danger of croup is the formation of a false membrane in
the throat. Until this is expelled the spasmodic choking continues.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy given in frequent doses loosens this
membrane and causes the child to expel it by vomiting.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is an absolutely safe and certain
remedy for croup and will save the unnecessary expense of a doctor’s
visit. If given as soon as the child becomes hoarse or even after the
croupv cough appears it will prevent the attack.
Experienced mothers know that for the tieatment of croup in* an\
stage there is no medicine equal to Chambeilain s Cough Reined).
It is used in many thousands of Australian homes and never dis-
appoints the anxious mother. ’
Sold
everywhere
Is 6d & 3s.
tyJcuM J<n
Mi
r\
y
/, <=V ■
R-~
5^
\
i)
m
M
r
V
if
’/A
Srs
::.s:
I
jsnS
Co
• 2! «
Co
x**.‘
CO
Co
K:&8
sssp
Hi*
ss
?a
'Gb/inny CriA^BEßUiin
>
f
FEEE
offe:
n
m
si
YOU CAN WEIGH AND MEASURE WHAT YOU SHOULD IN
PROPORTION TO WHAT YOUR HEIGHT 15!
During the past eight years 10,000 immaturely-
developed men and women have been developed to
correct weight and proportions by Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food Treatment.
An advertiser who offers something for a coupon and attempts to collect ioi
it later is guilty of endeavoring to obtain money under false pretences, bho
we collect we would be liable to a criminal charge.
| SEND COUPON TO=DAY. j- \ OFFER FOR 30 DAYS ONLY. J
.CUT OUT THIS COUPON.
Good for 134 worth of our
Famous Treatment.
(FOR 30 DAYS ONLY.)
FALU ERE CO., Sydney.
Please send to me, in exchange for this coupon, tcW ts
the equivalent of the actual cash, 13/h worth of Dr.
Falliere’s Flesh-Food treatment. I enclose od. m stamps
to ensure prompt delivery. I have never had a free trial.
STATE
MR., MRS.
OR MISS.
'Name ■
Bul.
Address
ANY PERSON may
use this COUPON,
Only one free supply allowed one f ami y.
There are no strings to this offer.
SEE
WHAT
OTHERS
SAY OF
FLESH-
FOOD.
LET US
SEND YOU
SCORES OF
SUCH
GRATEFUL
LETTERS.
GAINED OVER 141 b.
The Manager. — Midlaton. S.A.
Dear Sir, —Since using Flesh-Food
I have gained over 141 b., which
makes me now 11 stone, so that I
have no need for any more treat-
ment. Thanking you for your kind-
ness. — i remain, yours truly,
S. DANNBNBEEG.
The Manager, — Atherton, Qld.
Dear Sir, —I am very pleased to
tell you that I have improved under
your treatment, having gained 101 b.
in a couple of weeks, and my neigh-
bors are remarking the great change
in my appearance. I need no further
treatment, and am showing your
papers to any of my friends whom
I think I can induce to take your
treatment. —Yours faithfully,
MRS. J. W. JAGGERS.
GAINED SATISFACTORILY.
The Manager,— Emerald, AV.A.
Dear Sir,—l do not think I shall
require any more Flesh-Food, as I
have gained satisfactorily in weight
and measurements, and my health
has never been better. Thanking
you very much for all your kind
attention to me.—l remain, yours
faithfully, MRS. H. McDONAED.
Kiara, Westville, N.S.W.
The Manager,—
Dear Sir, —I have finished the
treatment, and am more than pleased
with the result. I have gained both
in weight and measurements, and
find myself in much better health
than for a long time past. Really,
the results of your treatment are
wonderful, and in such a short time,
too! Thanking you for all you
have done for me. —Yours sincerely,
S. BOARDMAN.
FALLIERE CO., 1103 Ash St., Sydney (Est. 1907)


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
The silly lawsuit threatened between the
Premier of S. Aus. and 111 s brother Jim, the
Attorney-General, on one side, and Opposi-
tion-leader Peake on the other, lias fizzled
out. It got as far as the lawyers, but not
into court. Peake assured the Vaughans that
he had never made or intended to make any
charge of disloyalty, or even of sympathy
with Germans, and they accepted the assur-
ance. It was a storm-in-a-thimble; still it
took lust a year to blow over.
Dead in Maoriland, at 79, Kimble Bent,
renegade soldier, rebel, outlaw, whose life
was a romance of extraordinary adventure.
’Way back at the beginning of things Bent,
a private in the 57th Regiment, having been
flogged for insubordination, deserted to the
enemy and became a Maori in everything
except actual breed. He was held as a kind
of prisoner for several years, for he knew
how to make powder and the Maori didn’t
want to lose him. But he wasn’t hard to
keep, because the pakeha was offering a
good solid lump of cash for his head. So
Bent lived a savage life, mostly in the wild
country around the head waters of the Wan-
ganui River and in the hinterland of
Taranaki. After many years he was par-
doned and emerged from cover, a hardy old
warrior whom exposure and long association
with another race had so changed that only
the practised eye could identify him. He
talked little and few people knew him, but
at various times he told most of his story
to James Cowan, and it forms one of the
most trustworthy records extant of life
among the Maoris during the time they were
fighting against the paleface. He never
tried to be a pakeha any more. Of late
years he had been living at a hapu in Marl-
borough. forgotten, outcast.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
‘l* I VOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE J)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
■piVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
THE ONLY HORACE GOLDIN,
The Royal Illusionist.
Also, THREE KUNDLES, JA£K BORNHOLD,
BLANCHE COLVIN, BILL PRUITT, BURT SHEP-
HERD, GOSWARD, and ROCKWELL & WOOD.
Plan at Glen’s.
U E R MAJESTY’S. S Y D N I
DIRECTION J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY, AT 7.50.
Great Reception of THE ROYAL COMICS.
THE QUEEN OF COMIC OPERAS,
GIPSY LOVE.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. announce a Season of
Merriment. Roi Cooper Megrue’s Soap Comedy,
IT PAYS TO APVKRTJSIi.
Presenting a great Company of Comedians headed
by HALE HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEHILL.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
ALACK TIIEAT It E. SIDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JaN.TAITS NEW ENGLISH t°
o’m y
HEART
ACOMEDY OF YOUTH
by ti.HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, Ge7ie”raT~ _ ila!.ager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
T WANGLE PLAYS AX
* THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
trrr
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. 0. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Bakiungton Millkk. General Manager.
[ORIENT POCKET STOVE
Portable Comfort Jap-
-1 anese Hot-Box or Body
Warmer. A real luxury
, id cold weather for inva-
lids, travellers and every-
one. No trouble, no dan-
ger, ready in one minute.
Carry it in pocket or muff
m tll and you feel warm all
over, or when travelling place it between your feet and be
|cosy and comfortable. Relieves bronchitis, neuralgia, colic,
Slq. Warms a cold bed. Emits neither smoke nor smell.
Perfectly safe: cannot cause fire. Made of hardened Copper
with cotton covering 1/6 and 2/6. velvet covering 3/6,
velvet covering in velvet satchet 4/6, complete with fuels.
Fuels Six Pence per packet, giving about 4U hours' warmth.
The Union Co. y Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.'
Amusements.
■y* OWN HA Li Li, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON NEXT AT 3.
J. & N. TAIT,
by arrangement with E. BUCKER, Esq.,
will present
TWO FAMOUS RUSSIAN MUSICIANS,
ALFRED Ml ROY ITCH,
PIANIST.
Winner of Rubinstein Prize at Petrograd.
MICHAEL Pr ASTRO,
VIOLINIST.
Winner of 1000 Rouble and Gold Medal Prize at
Petrograd.
Supported by
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA
of 75 PERFORMERS.
Conductor: Mr. JOSEPH BRADLEY.
TSCHAIKOWSKY PROGRAMME.
Mons. Mirovitch will play Tschaikowsky’s Concerto
B Flat Minor, for Piano and Orchestra.
Mons. Piastro will play Tschaikowsky’s Concerto in
D for Violin and Orchestra.
Concerts will also be given on JUNE 20, 22 and
24 in the CONSERVATORIUM HALL.
Plans at Nicholson’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
WI RTH S’ NEW HIPPODROME.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Proprietors Messrs. WIRTH BROS., LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEE SATURDAY, 2.30.
THE INVASION OF BELGIUM.
Showing German
KULTUR.
Mr. LEONARD DURELL S
THRILLING WATER SPECTACLE.
A representation of facts in the Invasion of Bel-
gium by the Germans, concluding with a wonderful
battle scene, in which the Belgians burst the dykes
and flood the German positions.
Houses, men and horses washed away by the floods.
The Hydraulic Sinking Ring assists in this effect,
using 200,000 gallons of water at each performance.
A TRULY WONDERFUL SIGHT.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Children Half-
price except to Family Circle. Early doors to
Family Circle, 6d. extra until 7.30.
BOOK NOW. BOOK NOW.
Plans at Nicholson's and Hotel Australia.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LONG, LETTY.
A WHIRLWIND OF GAIETY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
ON TEIA L.
The Most Successful Drama in 25 Years.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 17.
GEO. MARLOW presents the GONSALEZ ITALIAN
OPERA CO. in
IL TROVATORE.
Tuesday and Wednesday, June 20 and 21:
LA TRAYIATA.
Thursday and Fridav, June 22 and 23:
CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA and I PAGLIACCI.
Popular Prices: 65., 45., 2s.
ING’S THEATRE MELIIOC R N E.
Lessees BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 17.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
DUNCAN McCLURE and
THE POOR PARSON.
An Intensely Funny Comedy Drama by Steele Rudd,
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
■y HE MELBOURNE,
Commencing SATURDAY, JUNE 24.
THE GREGAN McMAHON REPERTORY CO.
in
11. A. VACHELL’S brilliant Comedy,
QUINN E Y S.
Box Plans at Glen’s.
1* he PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 24.
For the opening night only, in conjunction with the
Repertory Company,
MADAME MELBA
in
THE 4th ACT OF OTELLO.
Orchestra under the Conductors!)ip of Mr. Fritz Hart.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
RIiTOB THEATRE, M E L R O U R N E.
° FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8,
Two Big Features—
-WISH WYNNE and DAISY JEROME.
Also “FRED COYNE’S REVUE, “The Dizzy
Limit,” THE FLEMINGS, CUMBY and BROWN.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. MatinCes: i/6, 1/- and 6d.
QLACIA E I t M, MELBO U R N E.
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
HO Y T’S PICTU ItE S, MELBOU K> E.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
RIRCH&C A R R O L L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
I
II
Just the thing for the dairy
Of course you can’t use oily, poi-
sonous, acid metal polish on milk
pails and separators, but you can
use Bon Ami! Bon Ami works
just like a metal polish, that is to
say, it is wet when you rub it on
For an
. I the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
and dry when you wipe it off.
That makes easy cleaning.
Bon Ami is perfectly safe to use
in a dairy. It contains no acids
or poisons,—nothing but a little
soap and a clean, white, soft,
crumbly mineral.
Bon Ami is finer than ordinary
scouring soap and it won’t scratch.
Accordingly you can safely use
«t on polished surfaces.
At your grocers, 6d.
“There is nothing else like it.”
Legal Notices.
ANNIE FLANDERS
VVEEKES), Deceased! V
PT ItSUANT to an Order of the m
eery I hvision of the High (Wf, f w"'
la ted the 22nd November' 3915 made n tUe
Action ‘ln the Matter of th<» 1 1 * ?
ANNIE FLANDERS (Widol d t3te of
wherein Ann Wyatt is Plaintiff and*^
STiiSSSS ndMt “w'e fe
the following Enquiry was directed
Enquiry who were the persons entitL u
virtue of or according to die Statute ofTv*
tnbution to the Estate of the said Intestate
living at the time of her death and S
any of them are since dead and if si wE
are then* respective legal Personal
AH I»son B £“*ft
entitled under the said Enquiry are either he -
sonally Or by theil Solicitors oh or ml
the iSth October 1916 to come in and efe
their names and addresses in the book £
lor that purpose and prove their claims It
the Chambers of the Judge (Room 710) a
the Royal Courts of Justice, Strand Lon-
don, England, or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order. Wednesday the H
October 1916 at 11.30 o’clock in the £-
noon at the said Chambers (Room No 70fii
is appointed for hearing and adjudicatin'
upon the claims. 8
Dated this 17th April, 1916
H. HUGHES-ONSLOW,
Master.
,^ rr J-~T h e said Annie Flanders resided
at 23 South Island Place Lambeth ih the
bounty of London and died on the lllth .Time
1910 intestate She was the daughter of
George Weekes (or Weeks) of Soul-ton,
Devon. BlackSiiuth and Joanna (otherwise
Anne) Weekes formerly Joanna Tickle
Spinster his wife.
FOULGER; ROBINSON & MILLS#
1 Hare Court; Inner Temple, London/
England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
I>URSUANT to an Order of the Honor-
able Mr. Justice Shand made in the
estate of MARGARET LOGAN otherwise
known as MABEL MOLLOY late of Towns-
ville in the State of Queensland married
woman deceased intestate who die(l at
Townsville aforesaid on the seventeenth dav
of September 1914, WILLIAM LOGAN
and all other persons claiming to be the next
of kin of the said deceased are to come in
on or before the thirty-first day of July
1916 and prove their claims before the
undersigned or in default thereof they, will
he peremptorily excluded from any benefit
in the said estate.
Dated at Townsville this twenty-ninth
day of May, 1916.
JAS. COMERFORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator.
Supreme Court House, Townsville.
Public Notices.
p OMMONWEALTH PATENT No. 17148 and dated
the 7th clay of May, 1909, for an invention
entitled “Improvements relating to enamel-faced
bricks, slabs, wall tiles and the like.”
The public of the Commonwealth of Australia is
hereby notified that any reasonable requirements in
regard to permission, upon royalty, for manufac-
turers to employ the said “Imnrovements relating to
enamel-faced bricks, slabs, wall tiles and the like”
in Australia, in accordance with the above Patent,
will he satisfied by the undersigned (at reasonable
cost) on application being made to them.
Melbourne, the 20th day of April, 1916.
ISAAC HENRY STOREY and WILLIAM EDWARD
McOALLA (the Patentees), in care of A. 0.
SACHSE, C.E., Patent Attorney, corner of Collin?
and William Streets, Melbourne.
Scrap Cast Iron
We are purchasers up to 200 tons good, clear, soft
machinery scrap. Will pay up to £5 per ton on
trucks, Alexandria. No white iron or wrought non
wanted.
METTERS LIMITED,
ALEXANDRIA.
Used the
World Over
m
m
MOTOR
...CARS
Motor Accessories
“We have it —will get
it — or it isn’t made.
We have the Motor Accessories you want at
prices that drive away dull care. J;'*
a few: FORI> .Electric Lighting
SION SETS, 30/*, complete with hul •
WEED Anti-skid CHAINS, all sizes <om
£2/5/- set. SEMENTOL —to stop that lew
ing radiator, 6/-. Hellehsen Flash Ce ,
Shot Dry Batteries, all sizes, write
full particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
334-336 Elizabeth St., Melbourne-^
NOTICE TO READERS.
The
X F any illustration a PP ea ‘' l ”J'the
,1. Bulletin takes your fancy w e
Manager, who will quote you P
original.
ffieTfyxUle&n-
-214 George Street, Sydney.


CLEAN SWEET SCALP
May Be Kept So by Cuticura Soap
and Ointment. Trial Free.
To have good hair clear the scalp of
dandruff and itching with Cuticura Soap
and Ointment. Nothing better.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
P°A J <S
S'
VO,
<?\Q
V-s
0
Less
Noise!
More Work!
The Famous Typewriter Oil:
3-in-One
Lubricates all friction-points;
moves dirt from cre-
vices; prevents rust.
Cleanest Oil in the
World. Never smears
or thickens.
Sold Everywhere
in Bottles and
Handy Can.
Sample Bottle and
Booklet Free from
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
Harris Street,
WELLINGTON,
N.Z.
k
Food enjoyed is
Food mure nourishing.
CHILDREN do like
Gravy, and a little
Bisto makes a lot of
delicious gravy in
“no time” and with
no trouble.
“ Everything
but the meat."
All Grocers. In Tins. M.ide by CEREBOS, LTD.
‘lt is my opinion that
for Big Game the
Ross .280 Rifle is the
best in the world.’
Mr. Miller adds
" I have hunt-
ed and fished in
various parts of
the world, in-
cluding British
East Africa, but
I have never
seen a gun the
equal of the
Ross .280 for
big game.”
Experts all
over the world
concur in this
opinion.
You in-
crease the
chances of
c success-
ful hunt
by carry
inf a Ross
.280, and
using the
B. K. MILLER.
Wild Rose,
Wis.,
U.S.A.
msA
"V;
A
i,
W&C*, =_i /*
•-.»S
1315
Illustrated
Catalogue
on request.
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper
tube expanding bullet (pat*d).
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec. Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
#J,CJ
#
$
«
m\
10
9
8
BIG BEN
lei
as
Leave it to Big Ben
The successful
men of this world
are skilled in turn-
ing work over to
the other fellow.
They waste no
time doing things
some one else can
do as well.
So why worry your
head about this rising
problem ?
Just set Big Ben and turn in
and sleep,—sleep hard. Promptly
on the dot Big Ben’s bell sounds
a lively call, that gets you out
of bed, feeling fit, fully rested
by a night of refreshing, un-
worried sleep.
Big Ben is seven inches tall,
well built, handsome, punctual.
He has a big, easily read dial—a
cheerful, deep toned voice—large com-
fortable winding keys—a light running
movement with watch-like escapement
—an alarm that calls steadily for five
minutes or intermittently for ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred inspec-
tions in the making and six rigid timing
tests before leaving the factory of the
Western Clock Co., La Salle, 111.,
U.S.A., Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; postage 1/-
extra.
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benef it
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the cutbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
21-
Per Bottle.
The Inky Way.
“Soho”: Apropos the boasting of Mel-
bourne Herald and Weekly Times about
their long-distance employees, the Age can
show a decent record. Old “Geordie” Mit-
chell will be in the Syme service “60 years
come Ist January next, please Gawd” —40
years on night work in the publishing room.
He hag refused to take a pension, and often
challenges the office youngsters to a 100
yards sprint. He still refers to the present
head of the firm as “Master Herbert,” and
recalls the times in the ’6o’s when he
(Geordie) and his brother could carry the
whole daily issue on their shoulders. In
the Collins-street printery there are 12
hands with service ranging from 49 to 40
years; 47 from 30 to 40 years, and of mere
youngsters with over 25 years’ yakker
behind them there are 36.
This is what the Mullumbimby Star
(N.S.W.) thinks of the matter: —
The soul, mind and conscience of the editor of this
paper is held at small value by at least one in the
district. One subscriber values it at half a crown
a quarter. Because we refuse to be dictated to as to
who should be employed on the staff he has stopped
his subscription. Let it be understood, we only sell
the paper and not the staff for the half a crown; the
sale of human flesh and blood was stopped years ago
(or supposed to be), we may explain to this archaic
and paltry-minded soul.
It recalls a long-defunct Richmond River
weekly which every two months or so made
vague references to a change of ownership
in order to keep alive the subs. of cocky
readers whose susceptibilities might have
been wounded by some par. or other.
C. J. Joyce, who has driven a pen through
the Hobart Daily Post for some and
has worried along with the thankless job of
secretary of the Tasmanian branch of the
A.J.A., is moving to a warmer climate. He
lias been the Post’s sporting expert, and is
going to a similar job at Broken Hill.
A SAUSAGE FANTASY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was lying tired and fretful, with that feeling most
regretful
Which beclouds the poorest pressman when he's far
away from home—•
Home, of course, it is the singing and the clatter
and the ringing
Of the presses; ’tis his lodestone wheresoever he may
roam.
Be he married, be he single, yet his veins most
quickly tingle
To his inky vampire lover, who will never let him
go.
In disdain, or rage, or sorrow, he may leave her —
till to-morrow ;
For her kiss is on his fingers and he thrills within
its glow.
Well, upon these few reflections came to me swift
recollections
Of some work I felt was urgent and necessitous and
due;
But the subjects they were dimful, though my brain
was teeming, brimful
Of politics and gossipings and scoops—well, not a
few.
Now, I don’t know how you fellows when you start
to ply the bellows
Figure out the scheme of structure of your current
litany ;
But, in my own concerning, when I feel the topic
yearning,
I must work on from the star-line till I reach
finality.
Whether ’twas that I was ailing, or my well of
thought was failing,
Is of little mark or moment since remains the con-
crete fact
That there came to me the rotten, the infernal, ill-
begotten
Line that could not be evaded by nor forcefulnes.;
nor tact.
Like the raven damned and dreary that made Edgar
sad and weary,
It alighted on my thought-rail, and it shunted out of
me
Every other phrase and heading, and I raved upon
the bedding:
“Life is like a sunlit sausage on a cayenne pepper
tree!”
Now, I ask you, on the level, did the thing come
from the Devil ?
For it seems to me it never could have birth in god
or man.
And no matter how I fretted I was absolutely netted,
I was sweltering in trouble Worse than Broken Hill
gives Cann.
“Damn!” I said, “I'll write on Trading, showing up
the German’s raiding £
Of the markets of Australia and I’ll let Frank Tudor
seo” —
Then again there came the humming as of imps of
Sheol thrumming:
“Life is like a sunlit sausage on a cayenne pepper
tree 1”
Quick I hobbled to the bottle and I raised it to my
throttle,
Gulping down a half a gallon of raw glycerine and
gin;
Then I banged upon the table and I roared out,
“Now I'm able
To throw down this flaming sentence ; now on work
I will begin 1”
So I started: “It is rumored that electors will be
humored
With another Royal Commission on the Northern
Territ’ry.
This recalls the words we uttered” —here I dropped
the pen and muttered:
“Life is like a sunlit sausage on a cayenne pepper
tree 1”
By this time the phrase unravelled had me fair and
squarely gravelled,
There was nothing but to chuck it and roll out to
Callan Park,
And remain there for a season till I gathered up my
reason
And induced the loonies’ doctor to relight its vital
spark.
But before I pass from vision, in a spirit of derision
I am risen from my sick bed and I’m off upon the
spree
To obliterate and sever, to forget for now and ever,
Life is like a sunlit sausage on a cayenne pepper
tree.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


We sell only RELIABLE SPORTING GOODS.
Our Motto: “Goods Right—Prices Right.”
A SATISFIED CUSTOMER is our best advertisement, THAT’S WHY we endeavor to always satisfy.
TENNIS REQUISITES.
3
7
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
RACKETS.
(Postage on one racket: N.S.W., 9d.
other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
C.8.1J. Special..; 9/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8., cork handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8., Quadruple .... 15/6
M.S. Haymarket 22/6
Havmarket, Special .... 27 /6
Haymarket, Selected.. 35 / -
Haymarket, Ex. Special 37/6
Ayre’s Handicap 15/6
Ayre’s A 1 16/6
Ayre’s Double Central.. 18/9
Ayre’s Champion .... 25 / -
Ayre’s S.N.D 47/6
Slazenger’s Renshasv .. 16/-
Slazenger’s Demon .... 23/6
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 29/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 38/6
Slazenger’s Doherty ... 42/6
Slazenger’s Stadium ... 47 /6
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation.. -/ 6 5/6
Grey Regulation,
superior —.- /10 97-
Challenge, covered 1/- 11/-
Avre’s Court, cov’d 1/- 11/6
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 1/6 16/6
Haymarket Special 1/8 18/6
Ayre’s Champion 1/8 19/-
Slazenger’s Cham-
pion
1/8 19/-
NETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line —
13/6, 16/6, 22/6, 27/6, 33/-
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports List.
Post free to any address.
GOL, F MATE, RIA L
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
, CLUBS.
Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Drivel's and Irons.. 5/6, 7/6
Auehterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6
J. Braid’s Drivers and Irons 8/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9
Brassies .. 5/6, 8/6
Brassies 9/-
Brassies 8/-
Brassies 9/-
Brassies 9/-
Brassies .. 5/6, 9/6
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite
10/6
10/6
(Postage
BALLS.
one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz. | Each. Doz.
Watson’s No. 10 3/- 347-
Silver King (Yel.
Dot) 3/- 357-
Silver King (Black
Dot) 3/- 357-
White Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Midget Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Domino Dimple 3/3 387-
Black & White
Dimple 3/3 387-
Challenger King 3/3 397-
Arch Colonel .. 3/6 397-
Glory Dimple .. 4/3 487-
CADDY BAGS.
Waterproof Canvas, leather bottom and sling—
7/6, 9/-, 12/6, 14/6
Solid Hide, best quality 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
\
KA
y?m.
'/am
■Jm
i L
V
HAYMARKET
•SYDNEY*
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot : 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
We are Specialists in all kinds of
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
Correct
Feeding of
V Infants J
NO attempt to provide a
correct system for the
progressive feeding of
Infants was ever successfully
carried out until the ‘Allen -
burys’ series of Infants’ Foods
were introduced. So successful
have the ‘Allenburys’ Foods
Nos. I, 2 and 3 proved, that
whenever a child is denied the
privilege of the mother’s milk
they are indispensable. Gratifying evidence
of their remarkable value in the feeding
of infants from birth is constantly coming
to hand. The following is a copy of one
of many such voluntary letters received
from Medical Men, Nurses and Parents
resident in nearly all parts of the world.
A NURSE WRITES:
“I am pleased to say I have used your Foods 1,2 and 3 for the
last twenty years and have found none better. The
most delicate baby ever born I nursed and reared on the
Foods until he was 3 years old, and now he is 18 YEARS, and
a strong healthy boy nearly 6 leet high and as rosy as an
apple. You can make whatever use you like of this as I
should like your Foods and other things to be more used in
future, as instead of making fat alone they make
bone and muscle, which is what children need.
(Signed) NURSE DAVIE,
The practical results from a continually extending use of the
‘Allenburys’ Foods, prove beyond doubt that children thrive excep-
tionally well on them. Such children are healthy and well grown; the
flesh is firm, without excess of fat and the formation of bone is solid.
I
It
jSllenburgsFaods
The Best Alternative to Human Milk.
-yci
do*
—nan
Lon
MILK FOOD No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
WX">
“••'■oiTvoor'=»
MILK FOOD No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
theS***"
TV” - *
MALTED FOOD No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition to baby's dietary when 10 months old and after.
LPP ' Writefor free book “Infant Feeding and Management
64 pages oj valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market Street, Sydney.
Established 1715.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. Assist
the deaf when all other devices fail, and where
medical skill has given no relief. They are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wire
or string attachment.
White fok Booklet. Mention this Paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 49B, Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
Soldiers in
Europe like it
They have written home
repeatedly for this great
Chewing Sweet
WRIGLEYS
SPEARMINT
Send some to your soldier boy.
It quenches thirst, steadies
the nerves, soothes, refreshes,
benefits.
A delicious aid to teeth,
throat, appetite and digestion.
3d* per packet of 5 big bars at Chemists,
Confectioners and Stores ; or
address J. C. Gambles & Co.,
Commerce House,
Melbourne*
S ;
T *e
WOR
r
.
Made in
Australia
for Australians
by Australians.
Be
Sure it’s
Wrigley’s
Chew it after every meal


A SHAKSPEARIAN ACTRESS Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Miss Elwyn Harvey, the
charming young Australian
Actress who has so delighted
Sydney audiences in the past, is
now appearing with marked
success in the George Marlow
Shakspearian Company at the
New Adelphi Theatre.
A truly delightful “New Dis-
covery Girl” is Miss Harvey.
She writes as follows: —
I wish to tell you how much
benefit I have received from the
use of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. In my work my throat
often becomes irritated from
strain and theatre dust, and
often it would be impossible for
me to go through my part if it
were not for the benefit I get
from a dose or two of Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery. Also, on
two occasions I have been so
unfortunate as to contract a
heavy cold, and on each of these
occasions Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery helped me at once, and
soon rid me entirely of the
trouble.
I think there is nothing like it,
and always have a bottle at
home, for during the winter I
look to it as my safeguard
against the throat chills con-
tracted so easily when leaving
the heated dressing-room and
going into the chilly night air.
I assure you I will always
recommend it to all my friends.
Yours sincerely,
Sgd. ELWYN HARVEY.
Miss ELWYN HARVEY
(from a photo, from Lafayette Studios).
Stops Coughs—
Banishes Colds.
Men, Women and Children all over the country use
ru- New Discovery. Are you one of them : If not, aon t aeiay, dui
huv a bottle at" once, and be ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its
nnnearance Don’t forget. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the ever-ready friend
that should b??n every household, to protect you from all Winter Ills. Price
1/6 and 3/-
D« Sheldons
NewDiscoveri
TP
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
Jollywells
gnar/HnMH
O Q
o •
Now here’s a game
Takes steady aim,
Though Jolly well’s skilled
His wife’s the same.
Their evening play
Drives care away
And keeps them fresh
For ivork each day.
We hope that you
Will take their cue
And eat “Rex” Foods
As Jollywells do.
“The Sleep
of the Laboring Man
is sweet” is an old saying. Hard
work whets the appetite. _ If you
would have no trouble with your
appetite by day and your sleep by
night do an honest day’s work and
eat
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
at odd times.
-frz
Y<.J
PftODU^
rooo
Ma»
ea
t t, f it -it ‘inv old time —even at bedtime. It will not disturb the
digestion for ‘REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE contains all the good digestive
properties of perfectly-matured, full-cream cheese.
Try it on crackers or buttered bread
Refuse proffered substitutes
It goes well always—any way.
REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
is twice 1 as good as any “just as good.” Sold by Grocers
everywhere in Solderless Sanitary Tins, or in Opal 1 orcelain
Jars of Rritish Manufacture.
Other “Rex** Canned Delicacies ares—
“Rex” Ham Pate.
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and lieans, Ulb. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brand Bard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
Temporarily out of stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Bex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tin
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tin
aC
E
R
ZLyl
X
- I
FOCCITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Song of the Singing Brothers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOOLS as we ever have been and fools
as we must remain,
We hearten ourselves with visions
and off on the track again ;
The pleasures we build in fancy are false
as the pleasures we knew,
And we who are Singing Brothers are kin
to the Wandering Jew.
The Further for ever lures us; yet, in
spite of the dearth in store,
We have known what is left behind us, and
the Known is a paid-off score;
The swag of our life is heavy, but we
hump it for ill or well,
With each haven we make for. Heaven;
each haven w T e gain to, Ilell.
There are happy folk by the wayside and
they welcome us to their mirth,
But we join them as watchers only, making
lonelier still our dearth;
Though we lilt them a dancing measure and
slug them a careless strain,
Within is a wistful sorrow —we must off on
the track again !
Not with a God-speed spoken and a lift of
our swag on the road,
For ours is a lonely tramping and no one
can share our load;
Unseen, as the revel waxes, with Joy at its
greatest height.
Unseen, and ourselves observing, we take
to the track at night.
By night and alone in silence, with only
the stars* above,
We deny us the things we long for, Beauty
and Joy and Love.
Not with a weak self-pity, not with a cheap
self-pride,
But because of an impulse in us wiiose
bidding won’t be denied.
At the end. maybe, is a Quiet, or maybe a
newer Quest;
Take it, my brothers, take it—whatever
there be is best!
But I. for the tangle beats me, I would
sue for one favor of God,
Before I would make Him obeisance or bow
to His awful nod.
I would say to the Great All-Father: “I
am here and a rebel soul;
But what is the game Thou art playing,
and what is the final goal?”
It may be that He’d dismiss me with a
wave of His mighty hand.
But somehow I’ve got a feeling that He’d
tell me and... .understand !
JIAORILAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
A Day in a Troopship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
dismal sound of “Reveille” drones
I drearily out upon the still, morning
air. Its listless, erratic notes bespeak
a newly-aroused bugler. He is no more
than a disturber of the starry peace. _ Over-
head and round about a vast indigo-
tinted concave displays its myriads .of
scintillating specks; a brilliant setting
planet casts a forked reflection across the
dark, undulating waters. To the east t e
creamy twilight signals the birth of anothei
tropical day. The balmy stillness is en-
hanced by the engine’s subdued rhythm the
propeller’s throb, and the soothing, rippling
wash from the vessel’s bows.
The distressing bugle wail rouses one sue-
denly from the mystic depths of a heavenly
reverie to the work-a-day life of a troopship,
whose bleary-eyed passengers—-going forth
to do battle for the honor of their eounti ,\
and various private reasons stretch them-
selves moodily and growl curses at then
rude awakener. But the wash-deck fat-
igues” are on the warpath, and theie is
no time for idle reflection. Already gurg-
ling streams of water are cascading down
the bridge and boat-deck ladders, and along
flooded waterways the brass-grated scupper -
holes choke and guzzle as though m a tip-
pling ecstasy. The deck sleepers, in scan J
night attire—an airy singlet or less VT se V
below from the on-coming deluge blankets
and palliasses trailing in their wake, me
pulsing hoses pursue them, vomiting the se-
and sweeping away the signs of last nig -
revelry and idle hours. Dead marines, p 1
knockings, countless matches, oiange P pe
ings, ancient periodicals, cake crumbs,
tracts, a sock or two —all float swiftly past
on their way to the sea that swallows
everything. . , ,
Then comes—impromptu, with no bugie
overture —the great undress parade. -
dormitories belch out files of nude v a •
of various shapes who march gamely an
gaily beneath the douching hose, me sun
is now coyly peeping out, but the nursing-
sisters are still abed. So the amazing
riors wear their identification discs with an
On tliev come, all tan and muscle the
squatter, 'the chemist, the piano-tuner the
plumber, and hundreds more, from every
calling on the list. All are brothers now m
the common cause. The ex-stoker g < •
hose from the dentist and pays off an old
score on the minister of religion, ‘
panied by shrieks of mirth from the g
and the tram-conductor, who shortly B et it
in the neck themselves and are reduced to
helpless gasps and splutters. _ , ,
As soon as the scanty working-rig
tropics has been donned, companies fall in
on their respective parade grounds and g
through physical drill. “Arm stretclnn
hexercise!” shouts out the seige.
the South African ribbon. Arms hupwau.
stretch. Two! ’Ands on the , lp ® ~' a ? ®,
on. “Commence! One— two! tine-two.
lias yer were.” The men put much bee
into their work. They possess stiong m .
cular arms, fine expansive cheats . and
sturdy, well-developed legs—a goodly crowd,
tanned and convict-shorn, volunteers in the
pink of condition. Imoking at then
forget the printed rubbish about t
dent Australians.
The crowned and starred elect . ~
parading on the boat deck. A itli the aid
of a blackboard the officer eommandjng
hereinafter known as “Q.C.”— imparts to
his officers the elementary rules of survey-
ing and the intricacies of the prismatic
compass, by which rough and ready instruc-
tion they may intelligently lead their men
in a given direction or pick up an ordered
position. It is practical and interesting
stuff.
Suddenly the full-throated bugles blare
out the familiar and well-loved invitation to
the cookhouse door, and a noisy fuss
begins. The hungry soldiers pass the word
fore and aft, and the sea-birds wheel at the
sudden clamor for “Mess-orderlies! Mess-
orderlies !”
These legionaries, who have put an edge
on first-class appetites with undress parade
and physical contortions, are impatient cus-
tomers. Breakfast is eaten in relays, after
which, stripped to their waists, the “fatigues”
proceed to clear up.
The buglers, now amply fortified and in
good wind, rasp out an inspiriting call,
Companies with their respective officer's
double along the decks and fall in for in-
spection. “Two bells” strikes. The adju-
tant steps forward and in his deep official
voice orders: “Companies.... off hats!”
Hundreds of close-cropped heads suddenly
gleam pinkly in the sunlight. The ranks
sway gently together to the easy roll of the
ship. The padre takes up his post. The
adjutant salutes and reports all correct to
the 0.C., and the “carry-on” nod having
been received the men are ordered to stand at
ease. Before the ranks of bowed heads the
padre then lifts up his voice in thanks to
the Almighty for bringing them safely to
the beginning of another day, and prays for
comfort and strength in this their time of
trial: he prays also for the King, for
comrades-in-arms in both the Army and the
Navy, and finally he commends to “Thy
Fatherly keeping those dear ones from whom
we are now separated.” A touching little
service—impressive because of its simplicity
and environment.
At “dismiss,” unit commanders take
charge of their companies and put in a
strenuous forenoon. A squad here and there
at bayonet exercise holds the eye. “Guard !
—Lunge ! —Best!” The cold steel glints
dazzlingly in the sun. Some day soon those
splendid men will try it on living enemies.
A company at physical drill has a corner.
Further along is a lecture on scouting, and
close by a first-aid class is learning about
the compression of arteries. An epidemic
which broke out at the outset of the voyage
occupies the “off duties” attention of
everyone. It is a kind of St. Vitus’s dance
known by the simple appellation “Morse,”
and is played with arms, flags, semaphores,
lamps—anything and everything.
In a guilty file the defaulters breast up to
“orderly room” and have justice done to
them. Others, on sick parade, gather round
a neighboring bar. where they are served
with depressing drinks. Now comes an
event of considerable moment. An orderly,
coming smartly to attention, salutes and
informs the ship’s commander that it is
“10.30 a.m., sir.” The commander must
know this already, seeing that he has two
chronometers, one clock, and a watch in his
cabin. But one must not quit the firmly-
drawn line of routine. Both men firoceed to
the precincts of the orderly room, where a
number of “brass hats” are assembled. All
instantly start saluting at top speed. lhe
official courtesy being concluded, the ship s
sergeant-major salutes on his own account :
“For’ard, sir?” to the commander. “Yes,
replies the latter, “carry on.” (Note—
When in doubt try “Carry on” ; it’s a win-
ner every time!) The inspection of the ship
has now commenced. The sergeant-majoi
leads the way through a maze of soldiery,
veiling like fury as he marches along—
“Party—’shun—shun there —don t yer ear.
—ripes out!—party —orficers’ inspection—
Get up, there —’shun —’ere! you on the sky-
light, there—’SllUN!” A fine clerk of
the course is the sergeant-major. He forms
the head of the processional snake, which
comprises the ship’s commander, 0.C., ad-
jutant, r.M.0., ship’s chief-officer, military
quartermaster, orderly-officer of the nay,
orderly-sergeant, and last, but not least, the
tail of this imposing wriggling thing ter-
minates in an ex-Venetian blind-maker,
officially rated as sanitary-sergeant. Com-
panies on parade stand fast as the
“brass hats” proceed, those off duty—lolling
about reading or playing draughts—scramble
to their feet as the M.C. approaches. 1 os-
sibly this man was in the throes of writing
home an exaggeration of his “private life y
possibly the sultry day had produced a cer-
tain lassitude ; possibly he was a ‘ conscien-
tious objector.” Whoever he was the O.C.
overheard the unfortunate remark: S pose
they’ll be wanting us to stand up to our
blankv food next.” The cortege halts in-
stantly. “Crime that man, sergeant-major,
shouts the O.C. Then there is a warning
mutter, “Orderly room ter-morrer morning
All right. Carry on, sir.” The pro-
cession then dives down ladders to the dor-
mitories away along the decks, twisting
and turning itself around amongst bunks-
in and out of recesses; down more ladders,
along more decks, poking into every nook
and corner, the electric torches revealing
the furtive fluff to the chagrin of the dormi-
tory-sergeant. .
\ trooper, belli ted in bis work, is tevei-
ishly scrubbing a ladder at the far end
of the deck, beads of sweat on his brow,
singlet saturated. He stands to attention
as the officers pass. There ■is congestion
round the sculleries and wash-houses. The
orderly-officer’s face presents a broad grin.
“What’s the joke, Meldrum? asks the
adjutant. Orderly-officer sniggers and points
down the dormitory ladder. “See old Thomp-
son scrubbing the steps there? Veil, just
as we had passed up he brought out one ot
bis typical growls. *No, siree,’ be sohlo-
qtiised. ‘Never again! No ! not on your
]if e n o! Ao# even if my blanky backyard
was full of white feathers!’ ”
“He’s that squatter chap, isn t he !
ouerics the adjutant.
“Yes, worth over twenty thousand.
The adjutant mischievously cocks his head
over the ladder rail. “Shake it up there,
Thompson.” lie calls, with a side-wink at
the informer. . t
“All Sir Garnet, sir,” says the patriot of
the scrubbing brush. , „ „
At the conclusion of “Rounds the officer
(Continued on next pane.)


■
1
k
/
/
I
<
-
\
HOW AND WHY PEPS CURE
COUGHS, COLDS & BRONCHITIS
IN June, with its changeable
suddenN P ’o Chill,V 6Veilings following
less they keep a supply of breath a w'
I eps tablets handy to dis nfect the
Snns t J ha b t re f he ? the ***** of
iVlo s l ui S j / ouri8 h so amazingly in
S f d l and f °ggy atmosphere W
cold” season which claim
thousands of lives, and is most fat'd m
those past middle-age. • U 1 to
Everything depends upon the promptitude win,
which we grapple with the first symptoms of l
cold. there is only one thing to do rw n a
of breathable Peps, and after removing one
from their preserving silver wrappers let tw, ,
f"!«" -«* 0»n ellf when theware’medidn” Si
p in each Peps tablet will escape in the form of
fumes which purify the air and penetrate with in
breath through the mouth, nasal passages, throat and
’ bronchial tubes, right down into the lnn<ra n ° a .
Directly these medicinal Peps fumes begin to circulate through
passages, a welcome soothing effect is felt on the delicate and inflamed SiV
membrane, and any u dfflea lining
Stuffiness in the Nose or Throat irritation
quickly disappeai. I eps have a powerful softening influence on the timi
doggmg mucus which chokes the bronchials and sets up the cough and S’’
consequence is the phlegm is soon got rid of and the breathing becomes pi,? “
This is all brought about by the natural way in which the Peps medicine hr If 3 ?'..
to the seat of the trouble. Peps not only embody an entirely new principle in
that they prevent and cure coughs and colds by direct action, 'but thev are absolutely &
harmful drugs, and are welcomed as the 'great home-remedy for the throat aid
that affect both old and young in bad weather. Liquid mixtures swallowed' tdo til
cannot reach the lungs, where the real danger lies. With a box of Pens handy stomach
can face the cold morning air and damp night fog without fear. P ‘ andy ’ ho ' vever > y°u
Peps are the natural rem-
edy for Coughs, Colds, Sore
Throat, Bronchitis, Hoarse-
ness, Children’s Coughs,
Croup and other Throat ar.d
Chest Ailments prevalent at
this season Of all Chemists
and Stores, at 1/6 or 3/-,
large family size, or direct
from C. E. FULFORD (Aus.)
Ltd., 39 Pitt St., Sydney,
I
I
“GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS.’
[PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP]
V A lk T TC__
A A a JL aIL,
See also Page
Marine, Stationary and
Portable Engines
Unequalled in
SIMPLICITY, DURABILITY
ACCESSIBILITY, and
RELIABILITY, ECONOMY.
NO Water Drip.
NO Cams, \ alves or Gears to
get out of order and to repair.
NO skilled labor necessary.
Automatic Ignition.
Runs on Crude Oil, at less than
6d. per gallon.
Running Expenses less than half
of those of Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy higher than that
of any other Crude Oil Engine on the
market.
Designed for continuous hard
service.
More than 50 “Skandia” now running
in Australia and the Islands.
write FOR CATALOGUES and PRICES
TO-DAY!
(State Service and Horse-power Needed .)
I
We Always
Stock these
Engines
From 4- to
600 H.P.
NELSON § ROBERTSON.
Stationary
Type.
Sole Agents for Australasia & South Sea Islands,
11-17 Loftus Street, Sydney
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
'Every hand suited exactly.
"■ "Swam Safety"
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
*
Catalogue free on request.
MAtSIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J BURKE^
Sold by all Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers.
Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in T-£
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to. the
Manager, who will quote you price for it. :
of the day reluctantly exercises his great
privilege of shouting canteen bubbly-water
to the “brass hats.”
An interval and the bugles are yelling
again about the cookhouse door —which is
promptly besieged. A scene of heated
encounters is “Galley’s Post.” The files of
orderlies soon emerge one by one from the
not, and struggle along the deck under
weighty, steaming mess-tins and overflowing
chcksies. The concoctions of hours vanish
m a few clamorous minutes.
This being Saturday, the afternoon is
devoted to sport. The first item happens to
be a demonstration by a school of porpoises
which suddenly appears frolicing in the bow
waves. The ship lists as the men make an
eager rush to the side to view the display.
Irooper Sheepdip, from Back o’ Sunset,
yells above the din of voices: “Strike me
pink! See them flyin’ fishes?” Whereupon
Corporal Counter jumper sneers: “Cut it
out, mate, them’s porcupines!” By that
time the sea steeplechasers are gone. Other
items include spar pillow fighting, lazy stick
and the usual potato races and grab-apple.
Most of the events—not forgetting “Are
you there, Murphy?”—bring more happi-
ness to the spectators than to the competi-
tors. Boxing is naturally the most popular
with all hands. Puttee the Plugger and the
Werribee Wobbler, stripped to their waists
(bar identification discs), do their best to
look like Les Darcy and Dave Smith. The
second round ends dramatically enough
when, through some mischance or other, the
Wobbler gets one beauty on the “boko.” The
packed house applauds generously while he
staggers with a gory nose back to his corner
soap-box. The seconds work over him glee-
fully with towel and sponge. “Time !” Poor
old doomed Werribee staggers gamely to his
feet, his receding chin quivering strangely.
He fumbles stupidly with his disc in an
endeavor to get it off over his head. He
must be entirely unhampered for his forlorn
hope.
"No, no!” shouts the referee-sergeant,
suddenly rushing up and staying his hand.
“Leave it on, matey,” he urges; and with a
grim wink to the crowd lie adds: “Might be
required yet—yer never know !” One more
clout on the nose and Werribee is being
sympathetically assisted to his box.
The programme closes with a series of
terrific triceps-swelling tugs-o’-war, and the
men eventually tumble down to their last
meal worked up to a feverish state of sport-
ing enthusiasm, and the mess rings uproari-
ously.
Once more the cheerful bugles sound :
“Officers’ wives eat puddings and pies.”
Officers’ mess this time, and there is a wild
rush to be in time for grace, for dinner con-
stitutes a parade. A joyful atmosphere per-
vades the officers’ mess. The O.C. frivo-
lously chaffs a nursing-sister about her “boy”
in the Isolation Hospital, and the P.M.0.,
who has just defeated the quoits champion
adjutant, rubs his hands in kittenish delight.
The rivals denounce each other’s flukes in
crushing repartee. Two junior surgeons—
contrary to all regulations—have smuggled
io a bottle of wine for “Sweethearts - and
Wives.” The pop of the cork, however, gives
the show away and their cunning fails igno-
miniously, the “pretty-haired boy” being
unanimously condemned for the fatal attrac-
tion he thinks he has for the flimsy sex.
He seems glad when everyone’s attention is
attracted by shouting at the far table, where
the short-sighted Q.M. has narrowly escaped
swallowing a cockroach !
Suddenly—a blare from bugles outside.
In a flash the happy mess springs to atten-
tion. Gaiety is transformed to gravity—
and there is not a smile, not a sound save
the haunting strains of the “Retreat.”
Throughout the ship every man stands
rigidly. It is the solemn passing of day to
night, the memorial to the fallen —
the prayer for victory. Simultaneously
the ensign slowly descends from the peak.
So dinner draws to a close and glasses are
charged. The “president” calls upon “Mr.
Vice.” The mess rises once more. “Ladies
and Gentlemen. ‘The King.’ ” The toast
m none the less sincere for being drunk in
limejuice.
Meanwhile Private Dauber, leaning over
tht rail, has been feasting his eyes on the
exquisite ever-changing coloring of a glori-
ous sunset. In a voice tinged with emotion
he remarks: “What superb grandeur, lads!
I reckon that's the loveliest sight we’ve
seen since we left home.”
“Get out!” sneers Sapper Goodfeed.
“Ever had a squint at the orficers’ mess?”
The Saturday night sing-song has its
fleeting fling. The orchestral selections
range from the “William Tell” overture to
“Hold Your Hand Out, Naughty Boy!”
and there are some good singerb as well as
a few indifferent reciters.. But the head-
liner is the artist who can render a soul-
reaching domestic ballad of “When yer
gits back ’ome at night, after a good old
boose. About the middle of a raucous-
\ciced patriotic ailment: “Oh, we don't want
ter lose but we think yer oughter gaw”
—the watchful buglers blow in “The Last
Post” as a sort of obligato. The artists
and the patient audience then rise and
hoarsely bawl the National Anthem, and
after a few minutes’ breather, the dreary
bugles mournfully blow their copper-blasted
day to a merciful release—“ Lights Out!”
CATHEAD.
Venus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE quaintest feud I have met with
was between Ambrose Bandy and
McKewan’s cow Venus. Venus was
a lady of pedigree ; she had won medals for
it, but presumed not at all. To other people
she was just a plain, amiable blonde who
show r ed her taste only in the superfine quality
of her set of fur, and betrayed her breeding
to the close observer merely in her reserved
manner and the carriage of her head and the
elegance of her legs and tail; but to Ambrose
Bandy she was splenetic and rash, an ill-
tempered and contumacious brute.
Ambrose Bandy, it must be admitted, de-
served all he got. He was a hatter, with
a selection of 210 acres adjoining
McKewan’s farm at Twin Hills. What
had persuaded Bandy to go on the land—
and such land —nobody knew, but everybody
gave a guess. A few favored the idea that
he had been ruthlessly crossed in love, with
so sudden a jerk that his faculties had
slipped off the hinge. Others said he had
murdered a sergeant of police, and was in
hiding from the people who wished ro present
him with a testimonial. The majority fav-
ored the idea (hat he was avoiding the
society of two or more wives.
Whatever else he was he was the greatest
waster on Twin Hills. Yet everybody
called him “Sir,” and he was the only man
the tradespeople honored with the tag “Esq.”
in the course of their essays in polite letter-
writing begging an early settlement of the
enclosed. He made no effort to induce his
section to blossom like the rose or flourish
as the green bay tree, but put in his time
for the greater part being gratuitously inso-
lent to the wise, temperate inhabitants, and
bumptiously overbearing to the otherwise,
who assembled in Chaffey’s bar to pass the
long evenings experimenting in hydraulics
and studying specific gravity.
But more especially Mr. Ambrose Bandy
employed himself in antagonising McKewan’s
cow. He would stand for a full hour talk-
ing to her in a low, hissing, irritat-
ing tone, and his remarks were in-
variably most insulting. He called that cow
everything. He was never loud or aggressive,
but he was tireless ; his pale-blue watery eye
fairly sizzled with scorn, and there was a
biting edge to every word he spoke.
At first Venus treated him with the un-
concern peculiar to cows, but after he had
been going 40 minutes or so she would shake
her head as if worried by gnats, and turn to
avoid the incessant drone. But Bandy was
not to be shaken off; he had set himself to
break down that cow’s reserve, and to betray
her into an unseemly display. And eventu-
ally he succeeded.
One afternoon, when he had been going
for a little over an hour, Venus threw off all
restraint and went at Ambrose with a
bellow of rage. Ambrose started seeking a
fence, and fell over it, two feet ahead of the
avenger. He seemed highly delighted, and
continued his tactics. McKewan told him
he was souring the cow, and threatened to
beat him unmercifully if he persisted in
being an annoyance to the pride of the
dairy. Despite all that, followed by
McKewan’s assaults and two court cases,
Ambrose continued his vindictive whisper-
mgs,.and the time came when Venus grew
positively ropable at the mere sight of the
fellow.
To those who know the domestic bovine as
a creature wholly unsusceptible to verbal in-
sult, this may sound ridiculous. But Venus
was a cow of lineage, more emotional, more
highly strung than most cows. And the
man’s persistence is not to be forgotten.
One night something hit Bandy’s bark hut
like an old Roman catapult, and went
straight through it. The hut was gored to
ruins, and in the morning Bandy was found
i. "'l arc ‘ s nearer creek, shockingly mis-
He died at noon, but before passing he
whispered to McKewan : “It was that infer-
, c °w- Then he chuckled with bitter
i ee ‘ •, I „y, oke her U P at last. I woke her!”
ae said. I d made up my mind to move her.
tone was the living image of my wife !”
Then Ambrose died happy.
EDDYSON.
Off-Shore.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpHE off-shore wind was cool and sweet
§ A full moon lit the sea;
''e heard the far-off breakers beat
Unceasingly.
The mute folk in their hillside graves
lo peace and rest come home,
Unjoyed, for sure, the shining waves
Ihe pearl-white foam.
ilie great dill -faces shone like day
J he beaches and the hills ;
W it bin our boat the red fish lay
With gaping gills.
Once, when night’s middle-hour had sped.
1 rom silent haunts come forth,
Klaek swans, necks craned, trailed overhead
Unto the north.
Twas such a night as sometimes brings
istrange dreams and fancies rare •
A sense of mystic times and things ’
W as in the air,
A feeling that one’s soul might range
1 trough realms ’twere weird to know—
°! so “ e Ithln? 1 thln ? veiled and strange,
And lost and long ago.
Okl mystery made hers the waves—
tne cliffs from base to crown
Ihe white graves and. beyond the graves
The sleeping town. ’
How hushed it seemed, how still, how pale
How mystic, how aloof! 1 ’
As though in some Arabian tale
Uleamed spire and roof!
Where now were all the noise of noon,
fhe ardors and the strife’
Its one long street beneath the moon
Uay void of life.
The houses on the hilltops gleamed;
Trii windows, like large eyes,
h lUed full of wonderment, it seemed
Or mute surprise.
And bedded there were toil and sweat
And wearied brain and breast,
ffiied arms upon the coverlet
Tired eyes at rest.
They slept to wake, when night had sped.
To motley life anew ; F
Beneath them, row on row, the deart
Lay sleeping, too.
Two fishermen abroad at night,
-___A*t night’s lone, noiseless noon
'' t drift( - d through that wonderlight
Beneath the moon.
lo st we seemed, how sunk, how drowned
In that wide mystery! eu
Two little souls. . . . and, 'all around
Infinity! ’
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


% r . s ;
> j
S -r-'' !
! YiiS.
*tass
1
A Fair Question.
Have You Tried the
Best Practical Hethod
of Eliminating Your
Belt Losses ?
WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES
will Overcome Your
Difficulties.
Write To-day for Booklet
B.M. 310.
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne.if Zealand Office: 93-107 Featherston St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES,
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes ■
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared bv the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Kng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
SftFt G4JARD VOUR HEALTH
nTJ.CoIIfe Brow nels
t n
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
■
Of all Chemists . Prices in England, 1/8 } Bf- 9 5/-.
Made in England.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY €O., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS TOR
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers &t Aerated Waters and Cordials.
MR. HOTELKEEPER, you will make your business more profitable
by installing in your Hotel
Eckersley’s Dispensers
for the rapid and economic production of
Draught Aerated Waters.
These Machines are now used in many of the leading
Hotels throughout Australia, and we give below names of
a few Sydney users:—
Mr. J. B. Belfield, Belfield’s Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mr. W. H. Watson, Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Mr. W. B. Richardson, Railway Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Mr. J. P. Barry, JLansdowne Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mrs. Messenger, Hotel, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Commonwealth Hotel, George Street, Sydney.
Grand Pacific Hotel,. Manly.
Mi-. P. A. McCormick, George Hotel, Albury.
W. Gardiner, Albury Hotel, Albury.
A large number of our Machines are also in use in
Suburban and Country Hotels in Hew South Wales.
Catalogs front MACHINES SUPPLIED ON TERMS.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 25a George Street West, Sydney ; and South Melbourne,
TO BE SURE
\
/ / /
' /
V
TAKE
The tool with 5 big features
is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving: the releasing lever to the left
expands the dies—then the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
II
mm
OSTER
>•
Austral
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing: machines.
lian Representative:
CHARLES "WRIGHT,
Box 251 G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
The Os ter /VFfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WE CATER FOR THE WANTS OF
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
No matter what your requirements
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-CARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
we can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, LUBRICATORS, METAL-
LIC TUBES & SHEETS of ALL
descriptions, PETROL COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOOLS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents tor the FAMOUS
SCHEBLER CARBURETTER.


The All-A.\istralian
Power Transmitter.
‘‘MANGROVITEI
LEATHER
BELTINO'
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
Where Accuracy Counts
Toolmaker*. Electricians and Machinists
in all classes of Accurate Manufacturing
know the value of
STAR Lathes
But accuracy is only one of the many
features which have made them so
popular. Call and allow us to show
you their points of excellence, or write
for full descriptive Catalogue.
Sole Agents:
PARKE 8 LACY CO. Ltd.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, '
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip. .
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
The war has not affected its price.
' Sole Agents:—
JAMES HA RD/E & CO
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle.
THE
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
MOULDED MAGNESIA BEND,
OPEN & CLOSED ON PIPE.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Erisbane, Perth ; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
aen eiyambo Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Flaming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work «
Head Office aifd General Engineering Works: Cordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps
For Economy in Steam Consumption
and Freedom from repairs, these
Pumps are unequalled.
References can be given to hundreds of
satisfied users in the Commonwealth.
Delivery of many sizes from Sydney Stock.
Sole Agents
The Austral Engineering Supply
Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
!IL ENGINES
m
MARINE or STATIONARY.
Australian Agents
ARBURTON, FRANIiI, Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
s
THE LATEST
h|^sdpie<|e
Fitted with one long Bush for main spindle, also adjustable Lid Bush.
... y X '
isTea
All British
made, and the
most up-to~date
machine.
till la lit??* lilt t
jiiiiji
In
Improvements
the
Lister Leads.
Sole Agents
for Australia—
SSI
.
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
SYDNEY.
Agents in all
the States.
ON THE ONE HAND
UN BURNT Refuse
Result—FLlES, SMELLS,
SICKNESS, DIRT,
TYPHOID.
Prices and Particulars
GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
■■■■ sap
■
mmmmu
: :oAnmo&
im
I
SRft
.- >'?
■
'V -
ON THE OrWE/f HAND
All Refuse Absolutely Destroyed
in an Australian-made
GUTHRIDC DESTRUCTOR
NO FLIES, NO SMELLS,
Health-Giving: Cleanliness.
Install One in Your House NOW.
IT COSTS LESS THAN A DOCTOR.
EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY
