

The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
9
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all
DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W MONT DE PIETE D SI C?
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street
EUSTACE BEXNETT, Genera!
iTniußliiniSfiSinSraliUltSlii
11l 111
HOBAFLT,
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
WRITE TO-DAY
50-PAGE BOOK.
ING
m
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY.
GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHSBITION.
BEDS
For In- and Out-door Sieeping.
American Wall Bed Co.,
380 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
«
HuHor\’s
HomdA Bacoi\
'kvue.
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
HANS ENS
m
Fo r INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
i
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers’ Association.
Buy from
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
•.HHiMfiH
m
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
AMIWUD
Wall board
For Building
Walls and
Ceilings.
Not the same
MALTHOID
ROOFING
Illustrated Booklet s free.
(D. S. Evans, Australasian Rep.)
Challis House, Sydney. (Agents in all States).
Samptos an
tS Bookiats free.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
un
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPEC!AL
S V. o.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, B
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness
to the
Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.37.—N0. 1911.]
[Thursday, September 28, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Mechanics* Handbooks
(Postages shown in parentheses.)
Kent’s
28/
Radford'
Electric
Electric
Mechanical Engineers’
s Steel Square and its Uses, 2 vols. 80/- (Bd.).
Bells and Telephones, illus. 1/6 (2d.),
Lighting, illus. 1/6 (2d.).
Dowd’s Tools, Chucks and Fixtures, illus. 13/6 (5d.).
Taggart’s Textile Mechanics, illus. 2/9 (2d.),
flreenlv’s Model Engineering, illus. 6/6 (5d.).
Hanley’s 100 Questions on Fitting and Turning.
2/- ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■l
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T'T LTD., 23* PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
m
m
mm
m
m
m
m
m
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
RILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H.,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
TO SHAKSPEARE AFTER 300 YEARS.
Bright, baffling Soul, least cdpturable of
themes,
Thou, who display'dst a life of common-
place,
Leaving no intimate word or personal
trace
Of high design outside the artistry
Of thy penned dreams,
Still shalt remain at heart unreal eternally.
Through human orbits tliy discourse to-day,
Despite thy formal pilgrimage, throbs on
In harmonies that cow Oblivion,
And, lihe the wind, with all-uncared effect
Maintain a sway
Not fore-desired, in trades unchosen and
unchecked.
And yet, at thy last breath, with mindless
note
The borough clocks as usual tongued the
hour,
The Avon just as always glassed the
tower,
Thy age was published on thy passing-bell
But in due rote
With other native men's accorded a like
knell.
And at the strokes some townsman (met,
maybe,
And thereon queried by some squire's
good dame
Driving ii* shopward) may have given thy
name.
With, “Yes, a tv or thy man and t vell-to-do;
Though, as for me,
I knew him but by just a neighbor's nod,
'tis true.
faith, few knew him much here, save by
word,
He having elsewhere led his busier life;
Though to be sure he left with us his
wife."
— “Ah, one of the tradesmen's sons, I now
recall.. ..
Witty, I've heard....
We did not know him.... Well, good-day.
Death comes to all."
So —like a strange bright-pinioned bird we
find
To mingle with the barndoor brood awhile,
Then vanish from their homely domicile —
Into man's poesy, we wot not whence,
Flew thy strange mind,
Lodged there a radiant guest, and sped for
ever thence.
—Thomas Hardy, in “The Book of Homage”
(Oxfoi’d University Press).
Reconstructing the Old Firm
Since 1!)10 a band of Imperialistic ideal-
ists lias been investigating the business
methods of the Old Firm of Bull, Anzac and
Co. The firm has been prospering in a
muddle-headed way, without articles of in-
corporation and without any clear ideals
before it; arid the business relations between
the senior partner and the junior partners
have never been even defined. Apparently
the senior partner has been content to let the
junior partners manage, or mismanage, the
branch offices as they liked, and the branch
offices have been too casual to attempt any
control of the general management. For in-
stance, the junior partners have allowed the
autocratic and somewhat crusty old gent to
commit the Firm to disputes with trade
rivals that threaten the disruption of the
Firm. A quarterly magazine, The Round
Table, was established by these investi-
gators who have local centres in all the
branches of the Firm ; and in it they pub-
lished interim reports of their discussions.
Now a comprehensive report of the problem
is" published, under the editorship of Lionel
Curtis, entitled The Problem of the Common-
wealth (Macmillan ;* Is. 6d.) ; also, the first
part of the preliminary investigation of the
historical origin of the Firm, The Common-
wealth of Nations (Macmillan; Gs.), under
the same editorship.
The latter is subtitled “An inquiry into the
nature of citizenship in the British Empire,
and into the mutual relations of the several
communities thereof.” This comprehensive
volume of over 700 pages indicates the
immensity of the work undertaken by the
groups: it is a lucid and tremendous founda-
tion of their argument; and it comprises
merely the first of three volumes contem-
plated. Whatever may be thought of the con-
clusions reached in the smaller volume, there
can be no doubt of the ponderous thorough-
ness with which the ground for their survey
has been explored. The main argument is
Within their own territorial limits the
Dominions control their own affairs; but in
the general government of the Empire they
exercise no voice whatever, while the Im-
perial Government has no power of com-
manding their resources for the mainte-
nance of the whole. Can the Empire continue
in this anomalous condition, or is it to
develop into the structure of a State or be
smashed up into a number of States? “No
question more momentous has ever been pro-
posed, for upon its solution depends the
stability, not merely of this Empire itself,
but of the whole structure of the world’s
society through which it extends.” How are
the Dominions to assume a genuine respon-
sibility for the greatest of all public in-
terests, those which determine the issues of
peace or war? And though this volume
closes merely with that query, the ground
leading up to the question has been covered
from the beginnings of history ; while a re-
markable feature of the volume (and the
next) is the series of diagrams and maps
that at a glance elucidate the main elements
of the problem.
The Problem of the Commonwealth is a
much less forbidding volume. It is devoted to
one single aspect of the Imperial problem,
that raised by the question how a British
citizen in the Dominions can acquire the
same control of foreign policy as one domi-
ciled in the British Isles. The careful
method of joint action is embodied, too, in
this volume. A draft report was prepared
and circulated throughout the groups,
with the result that the criticism it re-
ceived materially altered the final text. But,
for an Australian, there is one omission that
leaves the problem, for us, still unsettled.
“No attempt could be made within the com-
pass of this short report to discuss in detail
the position of India and the great Depend-
encies of the Commonwealth (the Empire).”
Nor, it will be noticed, has the. question of
India yet found place in the first part of the
large volume. Lionel Curtis is at present
on a pilgrimage throughout the Dominions
seeking the discussion of his project; but, in
the view of this page, he misinterprets his
mission. His aim should chiefly be to dis-
cover not how the Dominions will receive his
suggestion, but what sort of blokes the in-
habitants of the Dominions actually are. He
ought to try to discover what Australians,
for instance, think of party government —the
permanence of which he takes for granted—-
and what they think of India. Leaving India
out of his grandiose project is like trying to
produce the play of Othello with lago left out.
There is a hole in his beautiful and
logically-constructed scheme, through which
a large quantity of water might leak
into places where it is not particularly
wanted. Lionel Curtis may have a solution
of this question in his sleeve. It is up to
him to produce it before he leaves these
shores.
The issue put before us is whether the
Dominions are to become independent re-
publics, or whether this world-wide Com-
monwealth is destined to stand more closely
united. But it is open to question whether
we are to be compelled to chose either of the
alternatives, whether there is no middle way,
whether, indepd, this forcing of the question
upon us may not, in itself, compel us, against
our national will, to choose the first alter-
native. Than which this page could conceive
no greater tragedy.
J*
The Problem of the Commonwealth, apart
from its vital omission, is a lucid piece of
compact and logical argument. It is com-
mended to every thoughtful reader in Aus-
tralasia. The author insists that the burden
of Imperial defence must be recognised as a
first charge upon the revenues of all the
States, not only in war, but in peace. But
Lionel Curtis acknowledges that there can
be no compulsion upon us to become English-
men. “The whole system of the Empire is
based upon the assumption that the
Dominions are each free to develop a
nationalism of their own as distinct from
English nationalism as English nationalism
itself is distinct from that of the Americans.
....Any attempt to x’egulate the social con-
ditions of the Dominions and the United
Kingdom, as those of America are regulated
from Washington, would mean infinite mis-
chief to all these countries.” Plence the
Dominions must control their own tariffs
and their immigration from first to last. In
fact, the principle has been finally admitted
of leaving self-governing colonies to assume
whatever powers they might finally insist on
taking. “The Canadian, Australian and
South African will grow less like each other
and not more so. The spread of the British
Commonwealth over so large a share of the
vacant territories of the world has not
meant, and cannot mean, the spread of the
British nation. It has already resulted in
the production of a number of new nations
and of national types which are destined
in the future to become as clearly marked in
their difference from each other as English-
men and Americans now are.” And it is this
congeries of differentiating nations that The
Round Tabi.e wishes to bind now with an
unbreakable compact.
The object of this inquiry is to discover
the most moderate measure of change
necessary to effect the control by the
Dominions of the Ministers who handle their
foreign affairs. And Lionel Curtis points
out that there is no inherent impossibility of
England sharing that control with the
Dominions, since she has already shared her
original responsibility with Scotland and
with Ireland. Any Cabinet which controls
foreign affairs must also control the naval
and military forces that are required. And
that Cabinet must be responsible to only one
parliament. Hence there must be two
separate electorates as well as two separate
parliaments and cabinets, one for Imperial
affairs and one for the local affairs of each
of the Dominions and of the United King-
dom. The English Parliament must resign
to the Imperial Parliament all except its
local affairs. It would thus have the same
.status as the Federal Parliament com-
pared with the proposed Imperial Parlia-
ment. England would therefore be reduced
to the status of a Dominion. “The Imperial
Government must have no more to do with
exclusively British affairs than it now has
with the national affairs of the several
Dominions.” But if we desire a voice in the
control of foreign affairs we must face the
fact that we will have to provide our share
for Imperial defence, and give that Imperial
Parliament the right to put the bailiff in
until we pay up. The author draws up a
table showing how much eacli Dominiqn
would have to pay proportionately, after de-
ductions had been made for the value of its
local defence, military and naval. He
examines thoroughly the constitution of his
proposed Imperial Parliament, of which the
whole Empire would be direct electors.
But India and the other Dependencies
would for the present remain in the care ot
the local English Parliament. The author
remarks that in the Dominions, “the very
idea of one people governing another is con-
trary to their traditions.” Neither Australia
nor India would consent without vigorous
protest to interfere in each other’s govern-
ment, the one to share in the-government of
India and the other to be ruled by a Cabinet
one, at least, of which would be an Australian.
Yet, according to the author, “a British citi-'
zen in the Dominions cannot be made respon-
sible for the foreign affairs of the Common-
wealth without also becoming responsible
for the government of its subject peoples and
sharing in the long and difficult task of train-
ing those peoples to govern themselves.” vv e
must wait for the second and third parts ot
The Commonwealth of Natio7is before we get
this most important problem constructively
treated. Till then we must perforce suspend
judgment.
War
At the outbreak of the war F. A. Wile,
author of Men Around the Kaiser, was the
Berlin correspondent of London Daily
Mail, and also of the New York Times.
He was promptly arrested as a spy; and
escaped only through the services of the good-
natured United States Ambassador. With
considerable journalistic facility and some
shrewdness, in The Assault (Heinemann,
Dymock’s Library), he tells of the
development of the great tragedy as he was
privileged to see it in Berlin. He points
with amazement to “the little army of emi-
nent and expert ‘investigators’ who honored
England with their company on the very
threshold of hostilities.” In June came
Krupp, with his chief technical expert. He
was shown over practically all of England’s
greatest weapons-of-war works. Krupp
hurried back to report, not at Essen, but at
Kiel —to the Kaiser and Tirpitz. In July
Dernburg came over to investigate the
British commercial situation. Then came
Ballin, the German shipping king; and that
remarkable Englishman, Haldane, whose
“spiritual home is Germany,” arranged for
his friend Ballin to meet a few friends at
Haldane’s home. Finally Prince Henry,
Grand-Admiral and brother of the Kaiser,
arrived —a week before the declaration of
hostilities. He called on the K_flg. Louis of
Battenburg and Winston Churchill. ...and
doubtless others. The colossal cheek of it.
And the infantile naiveness of the English !
This absolutely vouched for incident ought
to convince any readers wdio have not heard
hints that the Kaiser was forced to sign
the mobilisation order that meant war. “On
August 1, 1914, the wife of the Chief of
the Great German General Staff visited
a friend of hers. She was in a state
of obvious mental excitement. ‘Ach, what
a day I’ve been through !’ she began. ‘My
•husband came home just before I left. Dog-
tired, he threw himself on to the couch, a
total wreck, explaining to me that he had
finally accomplished the three days’ hardest
work' he had ever done in his whole life —
he had helped to induce the Kaiser to sign
the mobilisation order !’ ”
“The Kaiser was constitutionally addicted
to swaggering war talk, but he preferred the
bark to the bite. He likes his job. Like
Roosevelt, he has a ‘perfectly corking time’
wielding the sceptre. He does not want to
lose his throne In war Holienzollern rule
is in perpetual peril.” Wile asserts that
the real stage-managers of the war were
not Nietzsche, Treitzschke or Bernliardi (of
the latter the German public had hardly
heard until he was made known to his own
country by the prominence given him by the
Allied press) ; but Tirpitz, the Crown
Prince, Ivoester of the German Navy
League, Iveim of the German Army League,
Reventlow, who “hated England, France
and Russia with a ferocity delightful to
behold,” Di*. Hammann, chief of the German
Press Bureau, and, finally, the 60,000 offi-
cers of the German Army. As showing the
Hun’s preparedness, Wile states that though
the Kaiser went ostentatiously away for his
annual holiday cruise on July 6, four days
before German officers in German South-
West Africa were told that they might go
home on special leave at once. These offi-
cers reached Germany early in August, to
find orders awaiting them to join their
regiments. Austria had acted on the same
early date. And on July 18 the Hun press
solemnly announced that a squadron of the
German Fleet was to be sent to an English
port in August to return the Kiel visit by
British warships! Evidently the Hun has
a sense of humor. Unfortunately the Fleet
has not kept its appointment.
Wile was in an excellent position to see
the cranking up of the German Juggernaut.
“I always knew it was a magnificently well-
greased machine, geared for the maximum
of silence; but.... it almost seemed as if
the army had orders to rush to the firing-
line in gum-shoes and that everything on
wheels had rubber tyres.” Wile’s adven-
tures are neither exciting nor important, and
his impressions of England at war, of which
the rest of the book is made up-, are merely
bright journalistic views of facts that are
now stale history.
The Wrack of the Storm, by Maurice
Maeterlinck (Methuen, per Sydney Book
Club), shows the genial author, who
hitherto had cursed no man,” uttering
“words of hatred and malediction. ’ It is
to be remembered that Maeterlinck is a
Belgian. But there is much else beside his
conviction that “the German, from one end
of his country to the other, stands revealed
as a beast of prey, which the firm will of
our planet finally repudiates,” and his in-
sistence upon pitilessness against Germany
as a measure of organic defence. It seems
a grave oversight that his suggestion for
“hostage cities” was not adopted at the
beginning of the war. That is, that the
Allies should have named certain German
cities which would be answerable, stone for
stone, for the Belgian cities in German
power. “If Brussels should be destroyed,
then Berlin should be razed to the ground.
If Antwerp were devastated, Hamburg
would disappear.” In view of the fact
that these Belgian cities are known to be
already mined, there is yet time for that
just threat.
The amazing recrudescence of universal
heroism in civilised man forms the subject of
another thoughtful essay. Maeterlinck studies
Homer’s heroes, and finds them poor things
as compared with a Poilu or an Anzac. Those
ancient heroes “have a wholesome dread or
being wounded, and an ingenuous and mani-
fest fear of death. Their mighty conflicts
are declamatory, but not so very bloody; they-
infliet more noise than pain upon their adver-
saries. .. .Their defensive weapons are
greatly superior to their arms of offence;
and death is an unusual, unforeseen and
alihost indecorous event which throws the
ranks into disorder and mhst. often puts a
stop to the combat or provokes a headlong
flight that seems quite natural. As for the
wounds, these are enumerated, and described,
sung and deplored as so many remarkable
phenomena. The most discreditable routs,
the most shameful panics are frequent; and
the old poet relates them without condemn-
ing them, as ordinary incidents.... inevitable
in any warfare.” Even in later centuries the
fiercest hand-to-hand encounters of trained
mercenaries left but few dead ; and wars were
reduced to a few pitched battles, after which
the men went home. But in modern warfare
death, invisible, is ever threatening, and the
nerves of modern man must be strained for
years to the utmost pitch of heroism. The
amazing thing that emerges from this war is
that civilised man, in laying aside his primi-
tive brutality, has not lost, indeed has marvel-
lously added to, his manly qualities. In
“The Dead Who Do Not Die” and in “The
Life of the Dead” Maeterlinck proffers com-
fort and assurance to those who have lost
their own in this war; and in another essay
he affirms his conviction that through genuine
mediums information can be obtained, by
“psychometry,” of the absent ones at the
Front. But he does not supply us with the
names and addresses of those genuine
mediums. And he is somewhat disappointed
because of this overwhelming catastrophe,
looming so tremendous and so near, none of
the psychic prophets gave us any definite
authenticated hint.
«
Recent shilling reprints include Belloc’s
Pongo and the Ball, Mrs. George Wemyss'
People of Popham, and Robert W.
Chambers’ fantasy, The King in Yellow,
than which this now horribly popular
author has never done better work. It is
a painful thought that the author of such
an original and charming work could grow
up into a best-seller—but then this page
remembers quite a nice kid who grew up
irfto a literary critic.
“Copabella”: Re the Grundyish criticism of The
Superior Race. There is something very artificial
about the conventional attitude to the discussion of
sex-matters. In Oliphant’s play—which, judging- by
the prologue, he himself regarded with a certain
amount of awed seriousness—the author merely made
his men characters say on the stage and before an
assortment of females an ordinary-enough conversa-
tion between average men. (Ordinary as regards
-subject, I mean; few would get down to the inti-
mate personal details, perhaps. It wouldn't be
cricket.) The same thing, too, is.quite an ordinary
occurrence between .man and wife, between wife and
wife, and between matron and spinster. Many a
good married-lady story l hear through the wife, and
many another I send along to Smith’s wife
Jones’s wife through mine. She knows, and Smith'
knows, and Mrs. Smith knows, and all know that all
the rest know, yet not one of the four would dream
of mentioning even a hint before the other three.
It wouldn’t be “nice.” Reporting a closed-door and
court-cleared police-court case the other day I even
heard a bunch of leggy flappers prattle of their
innocent, researches into the fascinating science —
and jolly well “up” in it they were, too. So
much for prudery. ,
The root of all salacity and most immorality is
this pretence of mystery and reticence in sex
matters. Strip it away and all desire in the so-
callcd innocent (of which there aren’t any over 10
years old) to probe into the half-known will flee. If
a process that is no more mysterious than the action
of saliva on food, or the laying of an egg by a hen,
were treated as casually as these phenomena there
wouldn’t be the crowd of youths and flappers gazing,
drip-tongued, into-picture post-card shops or playing
“so-far-and-no-father” in the Fitzroy Gardens after
the pictures are out.
As for the morals, newspaper and social immo-
rality is always a matter of race propagation and its
processes. If a man and a woman are attracted to
one another sufficiently to flout the convenances, why
shouldn’t they come together respectably while the
attraction is at its best? I’m sure better-grade
children would result to the nation than are bred
perfunctorily, and generally by miscalculation, by
two people who have long since lost through
familiarity all sense of attraction for one another.
The curse of the whole thing is that publications of
social standing, and thinking men and women, burke
the problem by a conspiracy of silence—-leaving it to
the tender mercies of Mrs. Grundy (of the Argus
staff) on the one hand and Truth on the other.


xtae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for FISHING TACKLE
Fishing Made Easy and Economical at Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 2.
“Rubbo” Waterproof Lines—
No. 2, 25yds, -/6; 50yds., -/10; 100yds., 1/8
“Rubbo” Waterproof Silk Lines—■
25yds., 1/4; 50yds., 2/2; 100yds., 4/-
Waterproof Lines, Dressed, on Corks—
100yds., stout 2/3
100yds., fine 2/-
Silk Twist, Double Lengths, varnished, 33yds.—
-/5 to 1/3 each
Silk Twist, Double Lengths, 33yds.—
Nos. 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 24 30
Per hank */7 >/7 -/5 -/4% -/4 -/3 -/3 -/8 -/3 ea.
1/9 per oz.
Bream Lines, Best Hemp—
Special 50yds, -/4; 100yds., -/«
Nos. 000, 00, 0 50yds., -/5; 100yds., -/10
No. 1 . . 25yds., -/3; 50yds., -/6; 100yds., 1/-
Flathead Lines—
No. 2 . . 50yds., -/8; 100yds., 1/4; 150yds., 2/-
No. 3 . . 50yds., 1/3; 100yds., 2/6; 150yds., 2/3
Best Hemp Sea Lines—
No. 4 50yds., 1/1; 100yds., 2/2
No. 5 50yds., 1/3; .100yds., 2/6
No. 6 50yds., 1/7; 100yds., 3/2
No. 7 50yds., 1/10; 100yds., 3/8
No. 8 50yds., 2/2; 100yds., 4/3
Light Schnapper Lines, on Reels —
100 150 200yds.
15 cord 1/8 2/6 3/4
18 cord 1/10 2/9 3/8
21 cord 1/11 2/10 3/9
24 cord 2/1 3/2 4/2
“Our Own” Schnapper Lines, on Reels —
100 150 200 300yds.
27 cord 2/6 3/9 4/9 —•
Heavier, 36 cord 3/3 4/9 6/3 —■
27 cord, specially fine 150yds., 3/9; 200yds., 4/9
This is one of the finest lines made in 27 cord.
All the above, with the exception of 27 and 36
cord, can be had in Tan, Drab, Green, Sage or
White. The 27 and 36 cord in Tan and Drab only.
Hemp Lines, varnished, No. 2, 50yds.,' 1/2; 100yds.,
2/-
“Rubbo” Line Dressing -/6 bottle
“Duxbak”' Waterproofing Line Dressing—
Small, 1/-; large, 2/-
The Genuine Cutty Hunk Trolling Lines—
Nos. 9 12 15 18 27
3/6 3/9 4/6 5/6 7/3 100yds.
These Lines can be had in 200 or 300 yd. lengths.
Star Brand Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines—
Size G., 25yds., 2/9; 50yds., 5/3; 100yds., 10/-
Size F., 25yds., 3/- ; 50yds., 5/9; 100yds., 11/-
“Stag” Double Taper Casting Line—
H.D.H., 40yds 16/- each
The “Wallace” Landing Net, with handle . . 10/6
The “Quicksure” Landing Net, Collapsing. . 28/6
The “Parson” Landing Net 7/6
Landing Folding Nets, complete—
2/6, 4/9, 5/6, 10/-, 16/6
Folding Landing Net and Gaff Hook, complete 4/3
Corks, 3in. to 4in. square, for reeling lines on—
-/l, -/2, -/3 each
Allwood’s Federal Line, in 4 x 25yds. connected
(No. 3) —Fine, -/8, Medium, -/9, Stout, -/10
nnnnn
! 2 /o * 1 3 5 7
No. 5.
French Hooks, Willis’s, turn-down eye (No. 5)
Nos. 5-0 4-0 3-0 2-0 1-0 Ito 12
4/6 4/3 4/- 3/9 3/6 3/3 per 100
-/9 -/9 -/9 -/7 -/7 -/6 per doz.
Hollow Point Limerick Hooks, extra extra heavy,
japanned, kirbed—
Nos. 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0 7-0 8-0
2/3 2/4 2/9 3/3 3/9 4/3 5/6 7/6 per 100
-/4 -/4 -414 -/5 -/6 -/7 -/9 -/10 per doz.
Patent Turn-down-Eye Hooks —
Nos. 7,6, 5,4, 3,2, 1. 2/9 per 100; -/4J4 per doz.
Nos. 114 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0
3/6 4/- 4/6 5/- 5/6 per 100
/5H -/6H -/7 -/BJ4 -/9 per doz.
Useful Hints when Ordering Hooks.—No. 1-0 is the
middle size of nearly every range of hooks.
Nos. 12 to 6,5, 4,3, 2, I£, 1 1-0 2-0, 3-0 and up to 10-0
Mn. fin. llin. getting larger, 4in.
Fish Hooks, Flatted, W. Bartleet & Sons, Kendall
Kirby, extra extra heavy, bright or japanned—
Nos. 8,7, 6,5, 4 .. 1/6 per 100; -/2J4 per doz.
No. 2 1/8 per 100; -/2}4 per doz.
Nos. 1 1% 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0
1/11 2/- 2/3 2/4 2/9 3/3 per 100
-/3 -/3% -/4 -/4 -/4}4 -/5 per doz.
Nos. 5-0 6-0 7-0 8-0 9-0 10-0
3/9 4/3 5/6 7/6 10/- 14/6 per 100
-/6 -/7 -/9 1/- 1/4 2/- per doz.
Fish Hooks, Flatted, W. Bartleet & Sons, Kendall
Kirby, light, bright or japanned—
*4 in. longer shank, bronzed, rust-proof—
Nos. 4,3, 2, 1 1/2 per 100
Nos. 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0
1/4. . 1/6 1/9 1/11 2/-- 2/3 per 100.
XX Strong—Nos. 10, 8,6, 4,3, 2 1/8 per 100
Nos. 1 ' 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0 7-0 8-0
2/- 2/3 2/4 2/9 3/3 3/9 4/3 5/6 7/6 per 100
Fish Hooks, Flatted, A. Willis & Sons, Kendall
Kirby, bright or japanned. No. 180-
Nos. 12 to 1 1/- per 100; -/2 per doz.
Nos. 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0
1/1 1/2 1/3 1/5 1/7 1/9 per 100
-/3 -/3 -/3 -/3 -/3 -/8 per doz.
Hooks to Single Gut, bright—
Nos. 10, 9,8, 7,6, 5,4, 3,2, 1 ... -/8 per doz.
No. 1-0, -/9 per doz.; Nos. 2-0, 3-0, -/10 per doz.
Hooks to Twisted Gut, No. 1, bright 1/- per doz.
Nos. 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0
1/4 1/4 1/6 1/9 1/11 2/- per doz.
Shark Hooks, on chains, japanned—
Large. Medium. Small. Smaller.
1/8 1/6 1/4 1/3 each
Heavier 1/9 1/7 1/6 1/4 each
Hooks, snoozed, with 27 cord line, for Schnapper,
japanned—
Nos. 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0 7-0 8-0
-/10 -/ll 1/- 1/- 1/- 1/2 per doz.
Fish Hooks, Willis’s, Fine, Kendall Kirby, Rust-
proof, best quality—
Nos. 12 to 1 1/- per 100; -/2 per doz.
Nos. 1-0 2-0 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0 7-0 8-0
1/1 1/2 1/3 1/5 1/7 1/9 2/- 2/6 per 100
-/3 -/3 -/3 -/3 -/3 -/3 -/3 -/4 per doz.
Fish Hooks, Willis’s, Kendall Kirby, extra extra
strong, bright, japanned and bronzed—
Nos. 12 to 1 1/2 per 100
Nos. 1-0, 2-0, 3-0, 4-0, 5-0, 6-0, 7-0, 8-0, 9-0, 10-0
1/2, 1/4, 1/9, 2/-, 2/4, 2/9, 3/6, 3/9, 4/9, 5/6
per 100.
Sinkers—
Barrel Leads, Nos. 1,2, 3. . -/4, -/5, -/6 doz.
Barrel shape, Nos. 4, 5 -/9, 1/- doz.
Oval . .' 1/6, 1/9 doz.
These are all running Sinkers.
Round, Flat, for Beach fishing . . 1/4, 1/6 doz.
Larger sizes for Schnapper fishing—
Vst lb., -/8; %ib., -/4%; lib., -/«
No. -3. 5 Joint.
No. 3a. 3 Joint.
lift., 4 joints, spinning and trolling, 2 tops, snak :
rings, universal winch fittings 8/0
lift. G.H. Fly Rod 9/-
12ft., 3 joints, Fly Rod, Greenheart joints and
top 9/6
10 ft., 5 joints, Fly Rod, Greenheart single brazed,
balance handle 13/.
12ft., 3 joints, Roach Rod, Green cane, superior
finish 20/-
7V 2 ft. Greenheart “Tarpon” Rod, 2 joints . . 21/-
10ft., 2 joints, “Princess” Brook Rod, 2 tops and
landing handle 22/-
12ft., 3 joints, very best Fly Rod, double brazed,
rubber button, solid winch fittings, 2 tops, 3
joints (No. 3A) 22/-
9ft., 3 joints, Ash bottom Rod 1/3
lift., 4 joints, Bamboo Rod 2/6
12ft., 3 joints, Bamboo Rod, stained, ringed and
tennons 4/6
lift., 3 joints, Ash bottom Rod, winch fitted,
stained 5/9
lift., 3 joints, Hickory Rod 7/3
12ft., 3 joints, Greenheart Rod, brazed 10/6
lift., 3 joints, Hickory Rod, ringed, brazed, with
extra top 7/6
12ft., 4 joints, 2 tops, best Salmon Rod 27/-
10 V 2 ft., cane, Spinning and Fly Rod, cork
handle 25/-
16ft., 4 joints, best finish, with solid rings, double
brazed 25/-
12ft., 3 joints, Greenheart, very superior, 2 tops 45/-
Paragon Spinner Baits, 4%in. (No. 1) 3/- each
Tarpon Baits, 4in 3/9 each
Minnows No. 2, 1/-; No. 3,1/- each
Insects, assorted -/5% each
“Al” Spinner Baits, 4in 1/6 each
“Otter” Spinner Baits .... 2 1 /jin., 1/-; 3in., 1/3;
3% in., 1/6 each
“Spiral” Spinner Baits, 3% in 2/9 each
“Plunger” Spinner Baits, 3in 3/- each
Green’s Patent Spoon Phantom Baits, 1 in., 1/6 ea.
Fly Books 1/4, 3/-, 4/9, 5/- each
Special Blackfish Floats, loaded with lead for long
casting
4in., -/9; sin., -/II; 5%in., 1/1; 6in., 1/3
Best Bound Egg-shape Floats—
lin., -/2; -/3; 2in., -/4; 3in., -/8 each
Best Bound Barrel Floats —
lin., -/2; 114 in., -/3; 2in.,-/4; 2%in., -/5;
3in., -/6.
Porcupine Quill Floats -/2, -/3
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
Cartridges
For Rifles, Revolvers or Pistols
The most accurate shooting rifle, revolver
or pistol made will do unsatisfactory work
unless the cartridges used in it are as accurate
as the arm. For that reason it is important
when buying to get cartridges that have an
established reputation for quality. Win-
chester —the w brand of cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50 are unexcelled for
accuracy, penetration and uniform shooting
qualities. They cost no more than inferior
makes and are for sale everywhere. If you
want to get the most satisfactory results with
your rifle, revolver or pistol, always use
Winchester ammunition. Do not simply
ask for “some cartridges” when you buy,
but be sure to specify Winchester make
and look for the bold on the box.
THEY SHOOT STRAIGHT AND HIT HARD
<1
Brush Your Teeth
After Lunch
Brushing your teeth after lunch is
as important a part of your daily
life as bathing. Equally impor-
tant is the form of a cleanser
used.
Do not allow particles of food
to lodge between your teeth and
remain there until dinner time.
For your teeth’s sake brush them
after luncheon with either
...
k:
. *
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
tfIVWI.YO^
&ht Ai
For <'i.
tie teeth
i*fw PURIfVfNS*
,\ THE, ORCAIK A;
jTacf'bcKNn/
Some people prefer dental cream, but in gratifying this
preference, the value of using a Tooth powder frequently
should not be overlooked. Dr. Lyon’s toothpowder is a
super-cleanser whose use is essential through frequent
applications to keep the teeth in perfect condition.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
i,v>
HP
■
J tH*-
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are to.o severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
FEDERAL LORRIES
NIGHT AND DAY
WELLS |\
EXPRLYS
SERVE THE WORLD.
The acknowledged superiority of Federal Lorries is due entirely to
the precision and care with which they are constructed. Manufactured
by a company of long standing and excellent reputation. Backed up
by the records of thousands of satisfied owners in every part of the
world.
Buyers of Federal Lorries are assured of the soundness of their
investment. Replacement parts may always he obtained, by buying of
the world’s foremost Lorry makers.
Sturdy, and careful construction to the smallest detail has made
the Federal the most dependable Lorry. All Federals have the silcn-rfc,
efficient worm drive. Three sizes are manufactured: — 2-ton,
3^-ton.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN,
U.S.A.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT
18 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Cable Address: Lockwood, New York.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
[6
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach "of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
if any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool-.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Band Street, Sydney
Vfj.
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
“I certainly believe it was
Clements Tonic cheated death
from claiming me as a victim.”
“ I was pronounced incurable, and sent
home by those best able to judge.”
The following letter is remarkable for its earnestness in praise of this
wonderful Medicine, which does so much good to those who are run down
with debility of the system, and whose health appears seriously impaired.
Mrs. Craft’s case is well known in the Parramatta district (N.S.W.),
where she has lived for years, and the story of her long suffering is well
known and can easily be verified. Plow she suffered year after year, and
how she recovered through the use of Clements Tonic, is the talk of
Granville. Read the letter that follows, and if you are ill with debility, or
suffering with weak nerves and general weakness, try the magic of this
medicine, and give yourself a chance to recover good health. As it benefited
others, so it may benefit you.
Palmer House, Cooper Street,
Granville, N.S.W.,
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. !5/4/’l6.
“I would be lacking in generosity to you and the afflicted if I
did not ask you to make known what Clements Tonic has done for
me. It may be the means of directing others to health.
“It is ten years since I first got ill, and I had a five years’ illness,
the greater part of which time I was not even able to walk about.
I was in four different hospitals, and was operated upon in one. I
know the dread of the knife played havoc on my nervous constitution,
so that I was not only weak in body hut weak in nerves.
“I was pronounced an incurable, and sent home by those who
were best able to judge. Friends sat by my bedside at night-time
expecting to see the last of me, but I certainly believe that it was
Clements Tonic cheated death from claiming me as its victim. I
have lived in the Parramatta district all my life, and it would be
very easy to verify my statement. You may use this as you think fit.
Witness: HENRY GOUGH, J.P. “(Signed) ALICE CRAFT.’’
Date: April 19, 1916.
If you have Insomnia take Clements Tonic and sleep like a child.
If you have Constipation this medicine gives new stomach strength.
If you have Sick Headaches or Neuralgia it gives immediate relief.
Your home is not medically equipped without it. Get it to-day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them—and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
Blood—like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy, Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do. •
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidnevs and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that i
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend your remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
N. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
l&lft’o
GOUT V
& RHEUMATIC PIERS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCUEAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co., 229 Strand. London.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
oerfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/SCO Book, size 106 x
Bs, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester. England.
m
m
m
tju-iratsr -IV
BONr
%
PtCTOI
CARRA
IRISH MDS
CEORCE BONNINt
’S
MOSS
For Boys
Boys dislike medicine and won’t take it
unless it is pleasant. They are, however,
none the less liable to COUGHS and
COLDS. “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss’’ is
both PLEASANT and EFFECTIVE. The
best household remedy for Colds, Influenza
and Bronchitis. Take none but—
Avoid all
Imitation*
BONNINGTON’S
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Selvedge that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. S
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION AND SPORTS
(Under sanction ol the Attorney-General).
ou
a?
MIGHT WIN THIS
£.650
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
2nd prize value £3OO, 3rd prize value £2OO,
and 397 other valuable prizes.
Prizes Value £3,500
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Barnett, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHIELING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1910.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 9.
To any person forwarding stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or
direct from JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
"NT
\2
r\
m
i«V\
■Bn
fIMHI
■ft
S' [
Nerve
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by diily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
| HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeps you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
mm
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VAROIUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Night.
Within the trodden circle of the camp
Women, the mothers of the unborn, girls
Small-breasted, wild of hair and lean of limb,
Men strong and sleek as beasts, full fed as
beasts,
And dogs that still were cringing, hand-
reared wolves,
Lay round the rose-red ash in sleep, or
cocked
A prickt wolf-ear, as far across the night
A loosened stone turned ’neath the roebuck’s
hoof
As with a shadowy following hind he stole
Down the long deer path to the drinking
pool—■
A still black mirror, where a mirrored star
Was broken into troubled silver lines
By the slipped stone. The roebuck stamped
and stood
A moment on the margin quivering,
Fearing the narrow, emerald eyes of Death —
The Watcher by the Ford who had wrought
fear,
Unreasoning, saving fear into the race.
The buck stamped once, drank silently, and
stole
In silence up the way that he had come.
Without the trodden circle of the camp
Ringed with great trunks. Fear sat and
walled them in ;
Grass whispered, shadows herded < and drew
close.
All things that know the dark came forth,
and eyes
From rock-clefts tempted, wandered bodiless.
The Night was evil, for the Night was Death.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Wellington Lights.
The high hills of Wellington are like a
balustrade
That the winds walk over, and the tired dim
sun ;
And the weary little city is drowsing in the
shade,
And the Harbor Lights of Wellington are
waking one by one.
The harbor-tide of Wellington is laving pier
and bay,
And wrinkles are upon it, and many a flow-
ing fold;
And the visage of the waters is very drawn
and grey,
For the harbor-tide of Wellington is very,
very old.
But the young lights, the bright lights are
wonderfully gay,
Dancing from the shadows, and twinkling
here and there;
Like little eyes which watch the tardy pass-
ing of the day;
Like golden slippers flashing on a dim, dark
stair.
And the lights upon the steamers a-dream
beside the pier!
Red lights and green lights on many an idle
boat
Beam through the dim shades marvellously
clear
And blithe as the singing from a deep sea
throat!
Oh, some are ruddy rich lights, and some are
sere and dim;
But each finds an echo in the dark, still
wave,
And each wakes my heart to an old-time
hymn,
And the Harbor Lights of Wellington are
notes upon the stave.
And the night streets of Wellington are
leading from the sea,
Twining in and winding out like little
yellow ropes;
And the street lights of Wellington are very
dear to me,
And the street lights of Wellington go whirl-
ing up the slopes.
Amethysts and moonstones and flakes of
polished jade
Blended together with an old-world charm ;
The city lights of Wellington are showing
’mid the shade,
A glowing heap of jewels on a negro’s palm.
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Green and Silver.
Rain on the leaves that stir and sigh
Murmurs a fairy lullaby,
Wherein light pinions lift and beat,
And patter tiny, joyous feet,
And elfin voices chirp and cry.
All fairyland seems sweeping nigh,
Stringing the glimmering shafts that fly,
When silver showers fragrant, fleet,
Rain on the leaves.
Clear as wee bells that chime on high
Airily ’twixt the earth and sky,
The tinkling drops ring sharply sweet
On weary branches sere with heat,
And quivering globes of crystal lie—
Rain on the leaves.
N.S.W.
SYD. C.
The Music of the Moon.
I, who, awake, have never heard
The magic nightingale on earth,
This eve, in dream, beheld the moon
Lift, like a bell, its round white girth
All garlanded with cherubim;
And, from its mouth, there came a'stream
Of such sweet singing that I sank
Faint on my pillow ; while a gleam
Of lovely splendor o’er the night
Bloomed, as a flower, in the bell,
And showed the swaying tongue within,
The old-world Grecian Philomel.
VICTORIA.
HUGH McCRAE.


m
m
The three great, fiat ribs of the Perdriau Tyre meeting the road
practically without friction is the real reason for BIG PERDRIAU
MILEAGES.
See how, in the illustration, the Perdriau appears to ROLL
OVER the road rather than RUB AGAINST it.
Less “rubbing” means Less Wear and More Miles. Your first
Perdriau will convince you.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All States
m
m
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney,
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
Post Your Xmas Boxes to=
France before October 12.
What will the lads there think of those at home if Xmas
passes without their getting a Xmas Box ! They’ll say : “Oh,
they must have forgotten me this year,” and perhaps think
no more of it.
m
m
But, all the same, they’ll be pleased to sit down
to an Australian Xmas dinner—so your hamper
should include a Xmas Cake, Pudding, a tin of
“Rex” Ham Pate,
‘Rex” Luncheon Cheese,
“Rex” Camp Pie,
“Rex” Pork Sausages,
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
You’d like to see the smiling faces of
the Billjims when they open up the
swag. For REX GOODS are fine
fighting rations, which supply a maxi-
mum of concentrated nourishment with
a minimum of bulk.
On no account miss sending a tin
of “REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE,
for it will keep the “digestions ”
good on the other side.
“Rex” Goods are sold
by Grocers everywhere.
Say ‘“Rex’ Brand, Please,” and Get It.
>i-5f rooo
PRODU&Z
‘■ i •.11111 1 1 1 !'luii
II
cC
RE
BRMij
The last mail to reach France or England before
Xmas leaves on October 12.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
-
tru
SMITH’S
Four-Jet Carburetter
is the only one which gives maximum power with
maximum economy. Holds World’s Record —maximum
power—R.A.C. certificate—3o - 61 miles to gallon 31Acwt.
car.
Fitted Standard, Crossley, Humber, Daimler,
Tillings-Stevens and Laneliester, Sizaire-Berwick.
Follow Experts’ Advice.
Fit SMITH’S Carburetter.
Write full particulars to
S. SMITH (SL SONS,
London,
and 199 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR OAR
Graceful and Symmetrical.
Many Distinctive Features.
Attractive Style.
The Owner’s pride in this Car is abundantly justi-
fied by the grace and symmetry of its lines.
The body, with its pure streamline from tonneau to
radiator—the oval moulded fenders—the graceful cowl
and shapely hood—the enamelled instrument board,
completely equipped with gauges, starting and lighting
switches, speedometer, etc.—all are distinctive features.
*
Its style is so attractive that frequently the Car sells
itself solely by its appeal to the eye.
The MOTOR IS 24-R.A.C. RATING.
THE WHEEL BASE IS 110 INCHES.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for N. S. Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 37.—N0. 1911.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916.
Price 6d.
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood, N.S.W.]
THE ANTI-CONSCRIPTIONIST.
THE MAN AT THE DOOR: “Hey, you chaps, the shaft’s on fire and the day shift’s down below and setting smothered."
THE MAN WHO THINKS HE’S GOT A GOOD HAND: “Here, what you interruptin’ us for? Yer not goin’ to DRAG us out, are you?"


Special Notice to Agents
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BUIXETIN.”
You will therefore be good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office- of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to Ihe
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fU*T?ie contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form, of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
ihe address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Daivson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A .—AT. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and, D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Poistage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — othe'Sfbise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2\d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
fluTSSitllefz/n.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916.
WATCHING THE CRUCIFIXION.
We have grown accustomed to the statement
that this is a war of attrition, and, accept-
ing the dictum, we note with growing pride
the seeming exhaustion of Germany and of
the Prussian who is the poison in the sting
of the Teuton peoples. What we do not
note with equal care is the tremendous price
that is being paid for the advantage gained.
The Allies must win, whether Australia
shares the burden to the end or side-steps in
the hour of supreme trial; but in that vic-
tory the tinest thing in all Europe—perhaps
in all the world since the first notes of
human liberty were sounded in Athens may
die in the cause of uncomprehending man-
kind. To put the matter in all its terrible
plainness, the nations are now witnessing a
second crucifixion, and the figure upon the
cross is the figure of French Liberty.
Throughout the awful months in which
frantic and reckless Germany has been put-
ting out a mad strength that has for its
chief inspiration a growing despair of final
victory, France —the same heroic France
that sounded the trumpet-peal of modern
freedom and broke the shows and shams of
things with the lightning-stroke of truth
has been standing in the place of death,
defending the whole world’s honor, and
bleeding, bleeding, bleeding from a million
cruel wounds. This is no figure of speech,
no exaggeration of fact, but the plain, cold
bitter truth. England has suffered too.
Australia has known wounds and can boast
of battle scars. But the fact remains that,
■without France, all the rest would have been
of little avail to arrest the triumphant
march of Prussianism.
* * * *
That Germany can never overthrow
France is a truth which requires large quali-
fication. The splendid soldiers who kept
Verdun will light on while there is
one left to hold a rifle —so much admits
of no doubt. But even with Germany
crushed and trodden under foot in a
world’s contempt, the moral victory may
rest with Prussianism if the last terrible
price be paid for the shadow of a freedom
which is only the freedom of a nation’s
.grave. The spectacle of a democratic nation
in arms against the invader has been one to
quicken every pulse among the onlookers;
but if, when the final cost is worked out, it
is found that the heroic citizens of that
nation paid too big a price for all that has
been gained, Prussianism will have won. In
a word, if the manhood of younger France
is bled to exhaustion, nations may have a
shuddering pride in French achievement,
but never dare to emulate such a people’s
glory. And so the Prussian may be ham-
mered to a standstill and Kaiserism crushed
like the toad it is, while democracy proves
too ideal and impracticable, and something
bitterly like Prussianism wins a triumph
over the souls of men.
* * * *
Of course it is possible to take a large
philosophic view of things and talk about
the blood of the martyrs being a great sow-
ing for harvests to come, or wrap our
pleasant diplomatic robes about us, like the
cautious Caiaphas, and say that it is ex-
pedient for one nation to die for the peoples
that the whole world may not perish; but all
this is baulking the real hurdle and side-step-
ping the plain, inexorable truth that our own
small punch, well-directed, may save France
from the agony of a splendidly barren vic-
tory. Democracy, like humanity, is in a fine
and real sense one and indivisible. You
cannot smash free institutions in one place,
or allow them to be smashed, and hope to
see them flourish in another. England is
herself less free because she denies Ireland
her liberty. The war in North America
between North and South, had the Southern
idea prevailed, would have sapped the very
foundations of all democratic liberty. Negro
slavery and a full white man’s franchise
are unthinkable together. These are mere
axioms, denied by none except the people
who because of their habit of wearing their
brains in their stomachs are incapable of
understanding the meaning of sober, citizen
freedom; but the statement of them has a
direct and vital bearing upon the present
war crisis. Should France be crucified to
the death in the cause of human liberty and
the idea that is the keynote of Prussianism
be triumphant even after the smashing of
Prussian aims, Australia will suffer with
the rest. Man the world over will be a
little less man than he was before and a
little more a mere cog in the arbitrarily-
driven machine which Germany mistook for
God. And once the torches of democratic
liberty begin to go out we may drift any-
where in the darkness.
* * * *
The first call of the war was to save Bel-
gium. Belgium has gone under. The second
call was to save Servia. Servia, too, is trod-
den under foot. The third call and the
greatest is to save France—-heroic France,
the saviour of all men, who is now stretched
on the cross for Democracy’s world-wide sins.
Australia cannot stand by as if the matter
were of no immediate concern. The blood
of France is being shed drop by drop, and,
in no figure of rhetoric, but in cold, bitter
fact, it is being shed for us. Our answer to
the Referendum question should show what
we think about these matters. But the
duty of the private citizen is not the be-all
and end-all of things. In the national seri-
ousness which the great rescue demands all
petty considerations should be put on one
side. The leaders of the party in power in
the Commonwealth, though some of them
may be in earnest about conscription, have
utterly failed to satisfy the Australian public
with their handling of military matters. Let
them, if they desire to play their part
honestly, associate with themselves the
strongest and most capable men on this con-
tinent for the sane and sympathetic manage-
ment of our great, final national effort. It
is no fusion of the old sort that is wanted,
no rump of broken parties masquerading as
a new party. Let the very word party stand
for treason while this thing is being done,
and let our politicians show that they can
live and act in a season of dead earnestness
without the atmosphere of petty jealousy
and deception and intrigue in which they
have hitherto wrapped themselves. If there
is a call to sacrifice ringing in the ears of
Australian citizens at large, there should be
at least a call to ordinary decency tingling
in the consciences of those who are called
political leaders.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior, D. M. Wright and
P. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
LABOR AND THE CLEAN-UP.
In spite of all the prevailing doubts about
everything except the sunset, there is one
sure thing: when the war does end there is
going to be a tremendous clean-up. In a
rough, disordered way the job of tackling the
untidiness has, in Australia, commenced ; for
though the uproar and confusion that are
raging in the vicinity of Hughes turn for
the moment on conscription, these pictur-
esque happenings have a close political re-
lationship to the strategical retirement of A.
Fisher, the political funeral of Scaddan, the
twistings of Holman and the comedy-in-the-
making at Brisbane. The truth is that the
Labor organisation was shaky before the war
started; that under the stress of war it has
got shakier; and that a re-alignment of
parties and policies is inevitable. That the
result will be for the benefit of Australia’s
political health scarcely admits of doubt. In
particular it is well that Labor should find
out what it is and where it is. And it is
good that Australia should again get the
lesson it is now being taught—that Party
Government is an evil and vicious thing,
destructive to the nation and demoralising
even to parties themselves.
The Bulletin does not even suspect that
the clean-up can be handled by any party
such as the country now knows. It is quite
persuaded that the mess made in the past by
Party Government when handling simple,
primary things will be a worse mess when
the animal commences to handle more diffi-
cult and complex problems. That the Labor
party as it stands to-day is as little to be
depended upon as a similar mob of Liberals
is as obvious as O’Malley’s hat. This is
the only possible conclusion for the outsider
to gather from the condition of internal
strife and public helplessness revealed by the
party with increasing emphasis from year to
year. On its own confessions it is divided
in principle, intention and ambition. Many
of its political representatives are the scoff
and jest of themselves, the objects of ridicule
and distrust by their followers. And it. is all
this because the Party disease has riddled
members through and through, and Expedi-
ency has made them its victims. When Aus-
tralia had war forced upon her, almost the
first act of the National Parliament was to
bolt into the bush and shirk every responsi-
bility that a Parliament owes to the people.
That evasion was a degrading confession of
failure. It is one that a Labor party deserv-
ing the name would have repudiated any con-
nection with. Instead of that it instigated
this almost unparalleled disregard of duty.
Looking at it now, how many.citizens of Aus-
tralia are there ready to believe that Labor
as a political party can clean-up for Aus-
tralia before it has had a thorough wash itself
—before it has found out what it wants to
do, how it is going to set to work, and where
it is trying to get to?
Cleansed and in its right mind, free from
the platform-breakers and miscellaneous
deadbeats dossing about the premises, there
would be an important, useful part for
Labor to play in the great job to come.
One of its most immediate tasks is to treat
the nation’s affairs as national affairs
instead of as the sport of warring place-
hunters, and to turn the national . cash-
box into something better than an instru-
ment of public demoralisation. But Labor
can never do that any more than the Lib-
erals can if it goes on obsessed by the notion
that machine-made victories at the polls
represent final victory. These are more
often but the first stages of that attrition
which ends in death. A continuation of the
Labor movement in partnership with Min-
istries which do nothing but squander the
public estate, blow off hot air and strangle
Labor principles would be a calamity to
Australia hardly less stupendous than war.
A Labor movement reduced to nothing but
the struggle to make the Legislature a
place for the worship of the Party joss—
robbed of constructive ability through hav-
ing forgotten what it was going to build
can do nothing for Australia except help to
tie it up in a knot. Labor knows this as
well as The Bulletin. It knows that it
has made a false start, that . most of its
gods have feet of clay. And it is because
it knows this that it is turning itself inside
out and upside down. This paper hopes
that all this will do Labor a lot of good, and
that Australia when next asked to support
Labor policies will be? able to understand
what those policies are instead of hearing
nothing but conflicting yells and seeing
Labor practice and Labor profession con-
tinuously in the Divorce Court. Does Labor
want to look forward to joining in the clean-
up with certainty of doing further harm to
itself, surrendering its critical usefulness
and steering all over the shop? The indica-
tions are that it does not; but the sooner
it settles the matter the better for the Com-
monwealth and for Labor. The clean-up is
going to be a big contract. And when it
starts there will not be any spare time to
sit down for a smoke-oh or watch a party
organisation twisting its leaders’ necks.
ONE BRAIN ONE VOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The recent rush of people who didn’t know
an enrolment form from a tea-wrapper to
see if their names were on the Federal roll
doesn’t indicate interest in the Referendum
so much as the dread of a heavy fine for not
trying to look like a citizen. What humbug
the whole thing is, and what a farce is made of
our democracy by these obligations forced upon
people with nothing but hair under their
hats! The question whether the imbecile
should have the franchise or whether it
should be confined to those suspected of being
sane, recently raised in the N. S. Wales
Assembly, would sound like a jest in any
place where democratic freedom was under-
stood ; but in Australia it is a cold factor
actually influencing the balance of parties,
and to be taken account of by the various
machines which keep the country’s intelli-
gence from finding expression. There is
nothing Party hates like intelligence, and
jealous eyes are cast even on the occupants of
the padded cell when polling-day comes
round. To rope in a mob of people who
have votes and get them to put an abso-
lutely meaningless mark on the ballot-paper
is the one thing desirable in our “informed”
and “advanced” politics. As- a result we
get politicians and statesmen of the kind we
do —a kind entirely in keeping with the high
level of political thought behind the ballot.
And when Australia appears by electoral
representation before the world as a thing
blatant, empty and oozing shop-worn plati-
tudes, men wonder and talk about the failure
of democracy. As a plain fact, among the
many strongest forces working against
democracy and subverting it is the legisla-
tion which forces the indifferent and non-
intelligent to be citizens against their will.
Greece tried it ages ago in Athens with a
painted rope and failed; Rome. scorned
any notion of the kind and, in spite of an
over-complicated civic machinery, achieved a
lot. Australia muddles back upon the trail
of burst political devices and flounders to
despair among the mess of wreckage.
* * * *
The whole idea of democracy is that the
intelligence of the community shall rule. To
attempt to force citizenship upon those who
don’t care whether they have votes or not and
don’t know what those votes mean in any
case is clearly to defeat the democratic idea.
Any number of people who now vote at elec-
tions ought in the interests of public safe y
to be disfranchised at once. Their votes
merely swamp the national intelligence ana
turn the representative system into a hiss-
ing and -a swear-word. To make elec-
toral enrolment compulsory is absurd ; to
make the right to vote too easy to obtain
is foolish; to ensure that only those who
know the meaning of their political act
shall have any say in the management ot
the country’s affairs is sane, wise and some
guarantee of progress. The old system
which gave the rule to those with property
qualifications was no worse than the present
one which gives the main say to those witii
no qualifications at all. It may not be
possible ot practicable to fix a high standard
of qualification for citizenship, but some
standard there should be and that standarc
should be based on intelligence alone, lliata
great number of the citizens of the Common-
wealth are quite without political intelligence
is a fact which nobody could have the haicli
hood to dispute; and to eliminate the names
of all these from the electoral rolls is abso-
lutely necessary in the interests of decent
government and reform. This, of course, is
no class matter. Keen political intelligence
is found at wharf and mine and washtub,
while some of the least intelligent of all
voters reside in handsome suburban homes
and fence their inanity with diamonds, lhe
weeding-out process should apply all along
the line and be employed without mercy for
caste or creed, but with some decent sym-
pathy and a real desire to place what was
best in the community on top.
* * * *
To achieve such a reform need be a matter
of no overwhelming difficulty. A small exami-
nation of an oral kind conducted by a
Board answerable to. Parliament, but not
to any Government or party, is all that is
required. The test questions would merely
aim at discovering that the candidates had
a reasonable knowledge of the possible effects
of their votes. It is safe to say that thou-
sands of men and women would fail in that
test, including men of vast waistcoat, women
who live at Darling Point and Toorak, some
members of the Legislature and a host ot
the right-thinking of all political parties;
but the country would be the better for it
and the real democracy would come to its
own. Party organisations which now talk
about educating the people in politics, and
mean thereby roping them in to vote for the
right-colored candidate, would have to get
at the job of education in earnest. . The
voter’s right would be a certificate of citizen-
ship ; and as time went on the examination
could be advanced until the holding of the
thing became a matter of pride and a guaran-
tee of achievement. Then the politician
would alter the form of his rhetoric to meet
the altered shape of the thinking around
him, and a vast heap of things that lumber
Australia’s path could be taken straight away
to the destructor. Nor would there be the
slightest chance that the disfranchised might
rise in revolt against such a system. All the
men and women who desired citizenship
would eagerly strive to get it, and the rest
would be impotent as angry pumpkins or
maddened horse-radish.
* * * *
The old theory of the early democrats that
the best way to make a man was to think
him one, and treat him as one, has had a long
trial in Australia and hasn’t made good.
The alleged citizen who isn’t a citizen and
can’t be made one is as smugly complacent
as a wowser who assures you that his soul
is soundly sayed ; and there is no possibility
of progress while he thinks himself all that
he isn’t. In Australia to-day there are
people still living in the Stone Age, others
who have reached the Bronze Age, and a
few that have almost tracked back to the
Golden Age that was before either. To give
the squalid savage a vote —whether that
savage stays at the Hotel Australia or lumps
on the wharf —is plain insanity. It means
that the whole thought of the country is
delayed while the laggards in the intellec-
tual race are catching up ; and, as they don’t
even try to catch up, the waiting is likely
to be as long as the contemplative pauses
of a suburban train. The Stone Age man
is supposed to have taken about 50,000 years
to reach the Age of Bronze, and, though you
may hurry him up by catching him young
and sending him to a State school, he is still
a slow mover and a dead load for the com-
munity to carry. Why are we not honest
about these things? The brain of the coun-
try is neither in its feet nor in its stomach,
and by persistently keeping up the pretence
that a clod is a potential sage we do tre-
mendous injury to the clod himself and sub-
vert the whole force and meaning of
democracy. Most of Australia is intelli-
gent ; why must the hand of heavyweight
stupidity be forever at her throat?
RIMU.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Neutrals” and the Referendum.
Two years ago, when certain Hun oracles in
U.S.A. and elsewhere were stating
would happen to Europe after the Kaiser
had conquered it, they invariably promised
that Sweden should benefit by the redistribu-
tion of territory. Sweden was to have
Finland. A profoundly unenlightened public
naturally wondered what Sweden was doing
to deserve this future reward ; but the cen-
sorship suppressed all pungent comment on
the subject. The publication of the Allies’
recent Note to Sweden lifts this veil of
official mystery. It came from France, and
is refreshingly candid. After detailing the
Allies’ causes for complaint the Note
declares: —•
Sweden’s attitude towards one group of belli-
gerents is incompatible with fair and impartial
neutrality.
To which the Swedish Government sent a
saucy Germanised reply. Looking back two
years we can now see that the British
Empire at large owed to the censorship its
ignorance of the full strength of the German
menace. Germany and Austria were gener-


sn-noi!i to be a pair of overbearing
asbbucklers attacking humanity with the
.Vmpathies of all the other Powers arrayed
..f ainS i Even Turkey was represented
tu. f n h s )norable neutral, and all of Greece
lat mattered was with us. In short, the cen-
sorship kept the British Empire in a fool’s
paradise as regards its military require-
ments and the dangers which threatened it.
To-day we know what Turkey did and how
the case stands between Greece and Ger-
many and Sweden and Germany. And we
know, too., that Norway’s leading journal
has frankly announced that all Scandinavia
will meet Britain in “joint fellowship.”
So. the Allies still stand menaced by
nations that would too obviously be pre-
pared to throw in their lot with Germany
it they could be given a little more
encouragement to believe that the German
will win. They could not possibly get bet-
ter encouragement than an assurance that
our people are sick of the war, and are not
prepared to guarantee reinforcements. This
referendum of ours will be the first direct
appeal made to people of the British Empire
on the subject. The answer will actually be
the answer only of Australia; but unques-
tionably it will be accepted as revealing the
minds of British people everywhere. What
use Germany will make of it if Australia
says “No” is too painful to think about.
1 Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the AVar
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior, 214 George-street,
Sydney, and Edmund Fisher., The Bulletin Office,
Collins-street, Melbourne.]
A Senator’s Premature Incitement to
Australia to Maffick.
According to Senator Findley, the German
is “already beaten,” and the right thing for
Australia to do is to knock off beating him
some more, leave the job to the conscript
armies of various countries, and with
£75,000,000 thus “saved” proceed to “build
strategical railways, construct thousands of
aeroplanes, provide up-to-date arsenals, and
honeycomb Australia with stations for the
fleet.” Findley is entitled to his opinion
about Germany being “beaten” in any legiti-
mate sense of the word ; but it is one that
fills this paper with a great yearning to
know where the evidence is. Taken in the
broadest sense it is clear enough that German
aims have been thwarted; but to use the
word “beaten” in the way Findley does is
wildly absurd. Between stopping the Ger-
man from conquering any more territories
and inducing him to remove from the terri-
tories he has already conquered and now
occupies there is a vast difference. And
between that and pushing him back on to his
own dunghill and jumning on top of him
there , there is a vaster difference still. Even
when he has been pushed across the Rhine
he may not be beaten. The German is in
France; and the French are not beaten.
He is in Servia; and the Servians are not
whipoed yet by a long way. The Allies are
not in Germany or anywhere near it. They
are only on the fringe of Austria. It is both
foolish and dangerous, Jffien, to talk of the
German armies being licked or the German
spirit broken. The Russian does not think
that either has happened, obviously. Nor
does the Frenchman or the Britisher or the
Australian who is battling with him. They
may think they are going to beat the enemy;
but Findley can be dead sure they would
stop thinking that way if they heard their
Governments remarking that it was all over
and that the time was ripe to “save” money
by getting rid of it on something besides re-
inforcements. Germany will be beaten, but
only on two conditions—that the Allies stick
together and that their armies are not per-
mitted to dwindle away. And even with
these conditions fulfilled the contract is a
mighty one.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Puior. D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
:
Pozieres.
Quite plainly the same old stupid business
is still going in—everything we do is a
success, and everything the other side does
is a failure. The truth—the truth that
we ought to know ; the truth that we must
know, unless our referendums and elections
are to be worse than a farce —this is still
suppressed, or glozed over. Pozieres was,
according to the cables, a glorious victory.
The anti-conscriptionists said that we had
the enemy beaten —he was on the run; what
need was there for any such new and untried
effort as conscription? Letters by the mail
tell quite another story. Even the usually-
colorless official “Orders” put a greyer com-
plexion upon the affair. The Commander-
in-Chief (General llaig) sent this message
through General Plumer, and it was in a
Special Divisional Order of the Divi-
sion on July 22 :
Please convey to the troops engaged my appre-
ciation of their gallant effort and of the careful and
thorough preparations made for it. I wish them to
realise that their enterprise has not been by any
means in rain, and that the gallantry with which
they carried out the attack is fully recognised.
General Plumer added his “Hooray !” to this
condolence; and General Birdwood “con-
gratulated the Division, not only on their
gallantry, but on .the fact that they are the
first Australian Division to receive such
recognition in France.” This Divi-
sion was hammered together in Egypt out
of all sorts of odds and ends. Though
most of the officers were drafted from other
Divisions, the is nevertheless the infant
of the Australian army in the field. In the
midst of the gloom it is at least good to
know that Australia did not exhaust its
gallantry when it sent off the earlier lots
that proved themselves at Gallipoli.
♦
Wills and Widows, with a P.S. on the
Tote.
When Frank O’Neill, bookmaker, died a
few months ago, it was found that he had left
behind him £20,000 and a widow. Under
his will there was cash for various persons,
but not a bean for the woman. He left her
penniless. She challenged the will on the
ground of testamentary incapacity. Now,
testamentary incapacity is always a difficult
thing to prove; and she could not prove it.
All that she could prove was that.the man’s
personal habits and conversation were like
concentrated samples from 15 manure fac-
tories. It made Justice Street talk like
this:—
The circumstances of the case afford a potent
weapon in the hands of those who believed that
legislative restrictions should be imposed upon the '
absolute freedom which the law hitherto permitted to
an individual to disregard entirely all moral obliga-
tions in disposing of his property by will so long as
he possessed what was called a sound and disposing
mind. Unpleasant as they were, the facts of the
testator’s career were also instructive from other
Points. of view. Of humble origin, of little or no
education, familiar probably with only one book, and
that his betting book, as coarse in his language as
in his nature, devoid apparently of most if not all
of the principles and moral restraints by which self-
respecting and clean-living people were influenced,
openly and unashamedly unfaithful to his wife and
to his matrimonial obligations, he nevertheless
managed, in pursuit of his chosen calling, to accumu-
late a fortune of upwards of £20,000 before drink-
ing himself to death at the early age of 42 or 43.
,o piovision in his will of any kind was made for
iw « e ' ™ ere was nothing Whatever to suggest
that Mrs O’Neill was not a good wife to her hus-
band until compelled to leave him, and nothing
which had been disclosed afforded any moral justi-
fication for his action in not merely leaving her
nothing by his will, but in taking away from her
in'his'lifetime. W . hlCh had " lade for her
And then, having shown that the testator
was a pervert, his Honor could find no justi-
ficatmn in law for disturbing the will. The
TimV il . a<l , beßn a ‘‘“ark” and a “spoil-sport.”
That is to say, she had attempted to come
«nd W twi hei ’ l ins, ? ;nKI . and his bestialities;
and the law stands aside and allows him to
punish her for it. Happily such a case can
hardly occur again in N. S. Wales. For
very tardily the Legislature has just passed
a measure putting upon such testators the
restrictions to which the Judge referred.
Indeed, recognising its own neglect, it made
the measure retrospectiveso O’Neill may
be beaten on the post. Apart, how-
ever, from the rights of the wife, the case
has, as the Court said, instructive features.
In particular, that such a man should be
able to accumulate £20.000 in the way he
did is a dreadful reflection on the intelli-
gence of society; and what sort of a business
the bookmaker’s is can best be judged by the
fact that apparently no man can be too foul
to succeed at it. On the contrary, it looks
as though foulness is rather a qualification
than otherwise. And it is in defence of
such people and such a “profession” that
the wowser takes his stand against the clean,
honest tote!
Cutting the Ground from Under Our
Feet.
There is about to be established on the
foreshores of Port Ivembla (N.S.W.), at an
initial cost of about £lOO,OOO, a plant for
the manufacture of copper goods. The neces-
sary equipment has been ordered and pre-
liminary work is in hand. The raw material
will be obtained from the Electrolytic
Refining and Smelting Co. near by, and an
abundance of fuel is available in the coal
seams a couple of miles , away. Prior to the
war the copper production of the Common-
wealth was at the rate of about 44,000 tons
per annum. This production, however,
never greatly benefited Australia. Foreigners
swooped down and reaped whatever harvest
was to be made from the conversion of this
raw material into implements of utility—
and destruction. German buyers in parti-
cular were always prepared to take as much
copper as they could get in any shape or
form—ore, “blister” or refined. For many
years they were buying “blister” from Mt.
Morgan and paying for it as such, and all
the time were leaching from it valuable
quantities of gold and silver by electrolysis.
Eventually the secret leaked out and led to
the erection of the big refining w T orks at
Port Kembla. Even after the establishment
of these works the Germans could offer
higher prices for the refined copper than
Great Britain or any other nation. The
fact that they were prepared to pay these
high prices, in addition to freight, and then
return us the finished article at a reason-
able cost, was not attributable so much to
cheap labor as to efficient machinery, the
application of scientific methods, national
bonuses, tariffs and subsidies, and plenty of
energy. With these things we can have the
same industries. Without them we shall
remain hewers of wood and drawers of
water; and because our supplies are by no
means inexhaustible we cannot be hewers of
wood and drawers of water for ever. So far
“the solution of the metal problem” has, at
the best, consisted of arrangements for smelt-
ing and refining our ores either in Aus-
tralia or in Britain. That is only the
beginning of wisdom. We need to use our
metals —not merely provide other people
with the raw materials for their industries.
Better in the long run for Australia not to
“solve” our metal problem at present if it
means merely robbing the country of the
material which will be indispensable for
great manufacturing industries by and bye.
+
True to its policy of doing the things it
wildly condemned in other people, the Hol-
man Government has plunged up to its neck
in the repurchase of land for settlement, and
proposes to employ the debenture as the
medium of exchange. The lOU is to be
payable in 10 years, and will be a cheerful
item in the Kid’s inheritance. Of course, the
transaction represents borrowing just as
definitely as if a loan was floated and cash
instead of scraps of paper was handed over
to the landowners. The latest list of estates
to. be “resumed” numbers seven and com-
prises 111,178 acres. Out of this area it is
estimated that 221 farms can be carved. The
price per acre has not been mentioned. Per-
haps it doesn’t matter. But whether the
price be £1 or £5 The Bulletin protests
against these transactions and against the
whole system of repurchase. The conversion
of existing boomed land values into public
debt is a scandal. It means robbery of the
State and of the people. State land pur-
chase has been a gross failure in the past,
not only in N. S. Wales but in Bananaland,
Victoria and Maoriland. It settles nothing.
It is merely an expensive way of perpetuat-
ing abuses, making settlement more difficult
and creating further embarrassments. To
imagine that the settlement of Australian
lands and the building up of a rural popula-
tion can proceed on such a basis as this is
to conceive the country shouldering a burden
of debt which would make the war-game look
as cheap by comparison as 2d.
r
.Three more State Treasurers made Budget
statements last week, and the yarns they
had to tell boiled down to the same thing
—more taxation. From Westralia comes
the usual announcement that everything
connected with the Treasury is “in a state
of chaos,” with a deficit of £1,454,425, or
£93,520 more than "Scaddan last pleaded
guilty to. Thq, Speck reduced its deficit to
£68,987, but reckoned that this would leap
to £167,064 during the year unless more
sources of income were tapped. S. Aus-
tralia added £384.409 to its deficit, bring-
ing the brute up to £854,857. If to all this
be added the facts about N. S. Wales,
where Holman is “financing from hour to
hour,” and Vic. and Bananaland, where
the loan is holding the situation up on
precarious legs, the picture is complete—
pending delivery of a sermon about the
Commonwealth by W. lliggs. It is a pic-
ture of inexpressible national muddle.
Nowhere is there even a sign that the mul-
titudinous Governments are prepared to
knock off their extravagances. Every-
where there are signs of the same reckless
waste and disregard of the day after to-
morrow. Heaven may know how long a
country can its pockets being
assaulted by seVen Governments at this
rate; but Heaven is not open to be inter-
viewed on the subject.
The very fact that the censorship has now
been relaxed for nearly a fortnight with no
evil results is proof that its exercise outside
the military sphere was wanton and treason-
able to the Australian democracy; and
it is to Pearce, the very small man
behind a very big gun, that the public
finger points as the one who, without
either authority or reason, denied to Aus-
tralia the right of free speech. For him to
say that if certain Germans, now behind
barbed wire, had been at large the publica-
tion of the matters referred to by Ferkicks
and others in the Senate might have been
dangerous, is simply to draw a herring
across the trail. Most of the matters which
were censored had no connection with the
war, but some of them had an intimate and
close connection with Pearce and his dis-
qualifications, and his muddling, and the
muddling of his officers, and the pulling of
social and political strings. These are the
things that this man and his officers cen-
sored ; and the time will come when they will
have to answer to Australia for it.
“Blackbutt” : The timber trade of Mel-
bourne and suburbs is neatly apportioned
between a limited number of wholesale and
retail traders. The retailers are supplied
with Australian hardwood by the sawmillers
and with imported softwood by the timber-
brokers. There is a retailers’ association,
with a wholesalers’ (mostly softwoods) and
a sawmillers’ (hardwoods) association as
well. Believing that there are already
enough timber-merchants at the game, the
retailers (1) frown on any broker or saw-
miller who supplies any merchant outside
the association; and (2) give the glassy eye
to the citizen who tries to start a new
timber-yard and applies in the ordinary
course of business for admittance to the
association. The result is that there is
nowadays no known instance in which an
outside-the-ass. timber-merchant lis being
supplied by a broker with softwood at whole-
sale rates; and the only way such a mer-
chant can supply his customers is by buying
his softwood retail. As for the sawmillers,
their number in Victoria is less than it
used to be, for various reasons; but in spite
of the retailers’ decree at least one Mel-
bourne yardsman, not in the association,
has been able to get supplies of hardwood
and is doing a thriving trade at cut rates.
These times, deeply hurt in its tenderest
feelings, the ass. is holding almost hourly
meetings to devise a means of causing this
hardwoodsman’s business to drop dead for
lack of supplies; and it is hoped that every
sawmiller in the State will come to an hon-
orable understanding with the ass. and agree
not to deliver a foot of the hardwood except
to the hon. understanders —under pain of
boycotting by the combined retailers. Still,
perish the thought that the price of Aus-
tralian hardwood, which has trebled during
the past few years, is at its present high
level owing to any but “natural” causes !
At last Stinking Fish is getting it in the
neck. Besides the reputation the Anzacs
have gained as soldiers of much higher
intelligence than the English variety, Eng-
land is struck by the great superiority of
the material that their uniforms are made
of,. and by the fit and general get-up of
their clothes. British critics point out that
the material in an Australian private’s uni-
form is better than in that of an English
officer, while, in addition to Billjim’s
superior physique, he is sprucer—a fact that
is a good deal resented by the envious Mr.
Thomas Atkins, who sneers about boot
polishing and such-like performances. It
is of course rough on Thomas Atkins,
who is exactly what he has been made by a
country whose idol has been cheapness, even
when cheapness meant a Chinese in place of
a Britisher. But it is even rougher on the
anti-Australian press and politicians who
have so conscientiously dwelt on the theory
that we should never attempt to do anything
that England hadn’t done first, and even
then could never hope to do it half as well.
♦
David Low’s caricature of Marshall
Lyle, “still after 20 years known as the
lawyer who defended Deeming,” starts
Lyle talking about the case:—
I appeared at the coroner’s inquest, but withdrew
from the defence (so-called) when the case began
in the Supreme Court. The Judge had refused me an
adjournment of the trial. I wanted an adjournment
because papers necessary to the defence were
coming oversea. These papers arrived only after the
execution. I withdrew as solicitor, but the two
barristers who appeared as counsel would not sup-
port me by withdrawing with me, although I with-
drew my instructions from them. The .Judge, being
■put in a fix through my withdrawal, asked the two
barristers to appear for Deeming without instruc-
tions. They did so— Alfred Deaiiin and W. P.
Forlonge. As they were without instructions their
appearance as defenders was somewhat of a farce. I
had no sympathy for them, as their spineless refusal
to support me for the adjournment was in roy
opinion inexcusable, because in common fairness the
prisoner was entitled to have his defence fully pre-
pared. The Judge had no excuse to be in~a hurry,
and Deakin was too courteous altogether. Life's
battles are not won by courtesy to anybody, not even
to Judges. Judges are very human. Under these
circumstances no defence was possible. I don!t call
a few questions from counsel and a little rhetoric
from Deakin and no evidence a defence in a capital
case. I don’t think Deakin’s affability had any
good effect. I am sure it only assisted injustice.
My application was genuine and honest and perfectly
truthful, and, not being granted, I took the only
course by retiring from the case. It was Deakin
and Forlonge who “defended” Deeming.
Although, then, I did not defend Deeming at his
trial I tried get, for the prisoner a fair trial. I
was satisfied as to his guilt assuming he was sane,
but from the information given to me I became sus-
picious that all was not right mentally. My sus-
picions increased when I received cables from the
lunatic asylum he had escaped from seven years
before, the reports of his treatment as a child at a
home ior mentally-afflicted children, and numer-
ous police reports confirming his previous insanity
from England. 1 was also made aware of a conspiracy
amongst some of the police in Melbourne to suppress
evidence of the prisoner’s epilepsy, and this police
conspiracy was entirely successful, being supported by
perjury in court. There was wilful and corrupt perjury
committed in Dbeming’s case. Deakin and Forlonge
Knew nothing about this, as they had no instructions.
The case as outlined by the Crown was wonderfully
wrong. Even the date of the murder at Windsor
The Singing Army.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s the spell that spurs the feet when
marching palls,
It’s the charm that covers league on muddy
league,
It’s the trimming that we wear with over-
alls,
When we’re slopping with the bucket at
fatigue;
It’s the prayer that makes the soldier’s
spirit strong,
And the amulet he wears upon his breast —-
Just to scoff at dull endeavor with a song,
For in song the soldier’s soul is manifest.
It was “Desert Sands” we sang when we
were green
(Oh, Mena sands were anything but cold!)
When the Bedouin and craftier Cairene
Were wise with wiles of ages manifold ;
We sang and swore and sinned with such
as these,
Till we countered other ways and other men
On one small neck of land between the seas
(We taught the world the songs we chanted
then !).
The words are mostly shaped by limping
chance,
And the jolting tune may rattle like a ’bus,
But it trumpets scorn of Time and Circum-
stance,
As we tramp the greasy road with Orpheus;
It links the breaking squadron under fire,
If pulls the cursing column from the rut,
It voices scorn of Death and vain desire,
To the Colonel or the regimental slut.
And it’s “Take Me Back to Dixie” here in
France.
(Oh, there never was a Dixie like the
South !)
And the music is the ghost of old Romance,
And the memory of kisses on the mouth ;
It is loss and gain and torment, it is truth,
It is wine unto the flesh and spirit spent,
The seer whose counsel stands forever sooth,
And the whip whose thong can drive
environment.
We’ve mocked with tune the tepid Turkish
night,
Rouen has echoed back “Australia Fair,”
We’ve yelled the songs of Brisbane and the
Bight
Along the pitted streets of Pozibres;
Their voice is wrath and mirth and cleanly
hate,
Forgetfulness and keen remembrance both,
They are bombs we lift and fling at froward
Fate
(And we fuse them with a hot Australian
oath!).
And it’s “Boys of Anzac” when we leap the
bags
(Oh, that’s their barrage-fire that drops
behind !),
Athwart the gaps their flattened wire sags,
The shouting charge spills forward, battle-
blind !
And when to blackened vines and ragged
walls,
We win through splintered steel and shrink-
ing flesh,
Ihe swaddies drop to breathe, the trumpet
calls,
And we sing them up to dig the line afresh.
They are tunes that know no glib harmonic
rule,
And their ancestry concerns us not at all,
For we’ve conned them in a kindergarten-
school,
And we’ve hummed them in a Sydney music-
hall,
They’ve the loneliness that draws the soul
apart,
And the shame that bids the husky laughter
rise
With a jest for something tightened round
the heart,
And a blasphemy for tears within the eyes.
And it’s “Break the News to Mother” when
we drop
(Oh, gently in the jumble where you
tread !),
When earth and Heaven roar and reel and
stop.
And the dirty khaki blots with cleaner red ;
Though the bugles blare their grieving to
the sky,
And the fulsome ink of sorrow choke the
pen,
The song we taught you shall you know us
by,
Who were singers of the Melody of Men !
N.S.W.
J. ALEX, ALLAN.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil
lery. the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
tli-it the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE. STREET. SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&, King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPF^General^Manager^
Newman’s
m
“Better
than Either”
A Worcester Sauce of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
Ati Australian Triumph. tlet a Bottle from the (irocer.
was wrong by a week. Emily Mather was killed a
week before the time alleged by the Crown. It was
perfectly clear that her husband killed her. But the
real facts of the case made it a murder without pre-
meditation.
I say now, after 20 years and more, that the
Deeming trial remains, and will for ever remain, as
a scandal in Australian judicial history. The
prisoner was not allowed a fair trial. Journalistic
mendacity assumed enormous proportions and in-
flamed the public so much that it was quite impossi-
ble to get a fair trial. I read lies in the papers
every day and many journalistic forgeries. The
verdict of the jury to the effect that the prisoner
was sane was (with my information) manifestly
false. Yet they did not care how false their verdict
was. The Deeming case followed very venerable
British legal precedents. It was conducted exactly
like the witchcraft trials in the days of the Stuart
Kings of England, and with as little justice, as little
reason and as little sense of fairness to the prisoner.
There was no desire to ascertain the real truth.
There was just the mob’s desire to kill the witch or
epileptic. And the mob was the Melbourne public.
It was more powerful than justice. Was it not
better that the epileptic should be killed, guilty or
not guilty, they said. No, I do not think might is
right. In that respect I differed from the people
of Melbourne in the Deeming case. I have had to
suffer for this. The Victorian State Government,
although I was assigned as solicitor to defend the
prisoner, did me out of my expenses in acting for
it, and left me stranded, knowing that I could not
force them to pay me, as the juries were so in-
flamed. Ministers laughed as they told me to bring
an action to recover my pocket expenses. I was for
weeks the recipient of hundreds of threatening letters,
which filled a sack, and I was boycotted in every
quarter in Melbourne. I found a revolver good com-
pany. Yet I have lived to find an eminent English
Judge endorse my stand for justice to epileptics, as
European scientists have done for years.
Freedom of Speech.
This appeal for freedom of speech, signed
by Holman, Hall, Griffith, Ashford,
Black and Hoyle, State Ministers; by
W. G. Spence, president of the A.W.U.;
by J. C. Watson, ex-leader of the Common-
wealth party; and by J. D. Fitzgerald,
R. D. Meagher and H. Lamond, ex-presi-
dents of the P.L.L., is addressed to members
of leagues and trades unions in N. S. Wales:
The action of the executive of the N. S. Wales
P.L.L. in expelling the Prime Minister from the
movement, and placing the Premier, other members
of the Ministry, Labor members of Parliament, and
certain members of the party under a ban, strikes a
vital blow at the basic principle of the movement.
The question of compulsory military service outside
Australia has been submitted for decision to the
people of Australia by means of the referendum.
Upon this subject there is such a division of opinion
within the Labor movement that only by the exer-
cise of the utmost forbearance can disastrous dis-
ruption be averted. If in a spirit of intolerant sup-
pression of freedom the movement is now split, we
shall place the industrial and political enemies of
Labor in control, although at the end of the war the
workers will be more than ever in need of sympa-
thetic treatment.
The first essential of the preservation of the Labor
movement is that during the Referendum campaign
the question at issue should be openly, fully and
fearlessly discussed.
Many of those who are urging compulsory service
to-day do so on the ground that if compulsory ser-
vice is not adopted in order to bring about speedy
victory, conscription in a still more hateful form will
be forced upon us by the events of the next few
years. This view may be right or wrong, but,
whether right or wrong, the workers of the State are
entitled to have it fully and clearly explained to
them by all who hold it.
We claim that Labor men who share this view
must be set free to put it fully and clearly before
their brother workers without being penalised within
the movement to which they are attached. If their
view is wrong, it can be defeated by the force of
argument and can be voted down at the ballot box.
If it is right, untold mischief will he done to the
future interests of the workers unless it is thoroughly
discussed and considered.
Recognising that Germany is yet undefeated, and
believing that the enemy has immense resources still
at her command, we hold personally to the view:—
(1) That if the Allies fail to obtain complete vic-
tory the declaration of peace will be followed by
prolonged preparation for another war. During this
period conscription and all its attendant evils will be
unavoidable. .
(2) That even if the Allies are victorious, but the
British Empire as a whole has not done its share, the
needs and claims of Australia will not be safeguarded
in the settlement which will then be made.
(3) That it is, therefore, essential that the great
effort made by Australia should be maintained at full
strength.
Whether you endorse this view or not, we claim
the right of Labor men to put our opinions before
other Labor men in the interests of Labor. We claim
our right to remain in the movement to which we
have devoted so much public effort, and in which we
have obtained positions of responsibility. Our offence
in the eyes of the P.L.L. executive is our claim for
freedom of speech, and we protest to trades unionists
and Labor men and women generally against this
outrage upon the basic principle of the Labor move-
ment.
The Bulletin associates itself entirely with
that appeal. The present assault upon free
speech is an assault upon the principle of
the referendum. A referendum is an appeal
from parties to the people; and theorganisa-
tion which attempts to destroy this quality
in a referendum is an enemy of the
democracy. This is not the doing of the
rank and*file of the unionists of N. S. Wales.
It is the doing of a handful of men, the
bosses of the movement. That is the point
the rank and file —the great, mostly-silent
body of unionists —have to remember. It
is an attack, not upon Hughes, not upon
lloeman, not upon Spence, but upon them-
selves. They are the' people whose right to
govern themselves is now being undermined.
No democrat should therefore be in any
doubt as to the side he should take in connec-
tion with this lamentable attempt to exercise
tyranny and destroy the foundations of the
referendum.
♦
The Everlasting Battle and the Sugges-
tion that We Should Knock Off.
Most of the great battles that decided big
things in Europe lasted only a few hours.
The usual thing was to commence in the
morning and start looking for the commis-
sariat in the evening. Sometimes the fray
was over before lunch, and on these occa-
sions the cinematograph division was able
before nightfall to send home complete films
ot the combat. But in these latter days
things are different. Viewed broadly, the
current unpleasantness has been a single
battle in which various engagements stand
out as details. Fighting commenced before
Verdun eight months ago and is still in pro-
gress. The Russians got their second wind
in Galicia when they were four months
younger and have been sticking to it ever
since. The proceedings on the Somme are
three months old and there is every indica-
tion that they are going to survive the
dangerous period of infancy. In fact, one
gigantic battle has been raging since August,
1914; and it will go on until something
begins to crumple up. Then, and not till
then, will the next act in the tragedy com-
mence. Meanwhile the armies in the field
are not so much agitated about the com-
missariat department’s address as about the
ammunition waggons being kept full and the
arrival of reinforcements. Unless there are
reinforcements such fighting as is now in
progress would be mere futility; and the
points for the Australian citizen to become
familiar with are that big holes have been
knocked in the Australian regiments, and
that the battle has not been won and cannot
be unless the Allies make good their wastage.
The rock-bottom problem is whether the
Australian forces shall be the first to wither
before the enemy. The Bulletin says the
answer should be “No.” The opponents of
compulsory service say “Yes” —that if there
is to be victory it should be won for Aus-
tralia by others. They offer no alternative
to service; they simply say that Australia
has done enough and should quit, leaving
its sons and brothers and old mates in the
trenches to take their chance and hack
themselves out if they can. If that is Aus-
tralia’s way, then this paper has made a
mistake and doesn’t know Australia.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior, D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Dr. A. A. Martin, who died of wounds in
France, was one of the two or three great
surgeons of Maoriland. Native-born about
40 years ago, the son of a railway guard,
Martin first earned a crust in the State Life
Insurance Office. In 1894 he went to the
Edinburgh medical school, and brilliantly
Qualified. Later, he
served through the
Boer War, returned
to M.L., and settled
in the North Island.
The romance of his
knife brought pil-
grims to his operating
shrine from all over
the unstable isles. He
was attending a con-
ference in Aberdeen
when Sheol over-
flowed, and he hurried
to the Front just
after the Mons wrench.
For his strenuousness
in the Battle of the
Marne he was men-
tioned in despatches.
Invalided to England
he wrote “A Surgeon
in Khaki,” and was
one of the first to
boldly disclose Brit-
ain’s tragic unpre-
paredness. Returning
to M.L. in 1915, he
resumed private prac-
tice, but felt the call
again in a few
months, and finally figured in the push on
the Somme. He’s in good company.
Exit at last, after a long, lingering illness,
William Bickford, head of the South Aus.
manufacturing druggist firm. His father
was the first chemist in Adelaide, but died
young, and the sons, William and Harry,
when old enough to take charge, gave up
the shop and built up a big wholesale busi-
ness. William found time also for station-
owning and a bit of speculating. He was
75 when the end came, but had been for
several years dead to the world.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “To-night’s the Night
royal “While the Billy Boils ;
Criterion “Romance
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle I’hiys
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Geisha”
Royal “A Full House
King’s “On Our Selection”
Princess’s “Fun with the Coachman,” & “In Mexico”
Tivoli Tivoli Follies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
The Playhouse “Quinneys
The Auditorium Paul Dufault Concerts
The Gonsalez Co. gave us “Aida” at Syd-
ney Opera House on Monday evening and
dressed it better than other performances
had led us to expect. As “Aida” is essen-
tially a spectacular pageant into which Verdi
flung- a blaze of orchestration, the scenery is
important; and except for the alleged burial
of Aida and her lover, everything was at
least passable. But the great climax of the
opera—the death-scene and song in the
cellar below the temple—was a failure. Tenor
Dagradi, discovered alone in a comfortable
dugout—the stage, undisguised, making the
foreground—showed no sign of emotion. Even
the entry of Aida de Revers, who dashed in
from the back, failed to excite him. Their
subsequent swan-song was a poor thing,
and they died immediately afterwards, to the
relief of many undistinguished persons pre-
sent.
* * * *
Soprano de Revers, though more restrained
in the output of her sharp upper register,
was unfortunately dressed for the great occa-
sion in “Aida.” There was nothing to
choose between her appearance in green
sequins and shaded red boots and her end in
pink spangles and ditto boots. Basso Cacialli,
vocally one of the co.’s big assets, is a good
all-round actor-man, too. Hence his success
with a eoatee beard and an important billet
in the Temple. He led the Solemn Men on
and off the stage, singing not too badly as
they went. Tenor Dagradi was the chief
walking-stick of the performance. Miss
Russ, the haughty minx Amneres, daughter
of the King of Egypt, was the surprise of
the opera. For once her tremolo was almost
forgotten, and she sang the beautiful music
in full, rich notes. Impassioned in her act-
ing, she made her big hit in a. dragging-
scene towards the close of Radames’s coffee-
colored career. Filippini, King of Ethiopia,
in mission drapery, retained the short brass
horns of his primitive splendor, and gave an
admirable vocal account of a small part.
The oi-chestra was fairly good.
“Rigoletto,” heard last week, ranks with
“Pagliaeci” among the Gonsalez Co.’s' per-
formances in Sydney. They stand above all
the others. This was in large part due, so
far as “Rigoletto” is concerned, to the
charm of Miss Gonsalez as Gilda. Her
sweet, pure notes and consistent efforts to be
in the picture brought the thrush-like singer
a storm of applause. When she had finished
“Caro Nome” the; house sent her its love
across the footlights. Rigoletto (Filippini)
“ROMANCE,” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Lewis Willoughby as Fred
Livingstone.
Arthur Greenaway as Harry
Putman.
gave an even and interesting performance.
It was inevitable that tenor Lois —a hand-
some young rascal as the bad Duke —would
be compared with John McCormack in the
famous “La donna e mobile.” But John
doesn’t sing in opera at the price—so there
you are! Both orchestra and chorus were
above their ordinary uncertain level.
“To-night's the Night” started work at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, last week-end and
proved to be the same old gorgeous English
joke about tlfe well-dressed people who are
living on the bevelled edge of divorce, and
arrange to sneak out to a second-act
cafe where there is a comic head-waiter and
all food-traffic obligingly stops whenever one
of the young women feels like singing a song
full of tender U.S. sentiment in the vesti-
bule, with a humming chorus of sympa-
thetic but unintroduced male customers who
sneak in and hover beyond the limelight
beam like watchful undertakers. There is
also the mildly-wild youth with no money
who takes a racketty lady out to supper,
and the furious elderly lady of whom every-
body is afraid and who has to have the con-
volutions of the plot explained to her at
great length while the orchestra lays down
its instruments and steals away for a smoke
and a yarn. It always happens in the sec-
ond act of these shows, and the writer feels
“FAUST,” AT SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
Faust ( Cappelli ), Mefistofie ( Cacialli).
like bribing the musicians heavily to slide
back into their chairs and drown the
unnecessary explanations in loud, cheerful
melody. In London, where these things are
assembled from other successes of the past,
the ineffectual author seems to be allowed
the first part of the second act in which to
work out his awfully funny complications
and show Aunt Julia how it was her college
nephew came to take the maid out to sup-
per with the money he got by pawning her
bracelet. Work and shout as they will, the
musical comedians can’t make it sound as
interesting as an argument in the Equity
Court over a misplaced boundary fence. But
it justifies someone having his name on the
bill as “librettist.” Other indispensable
characters are the broken-English specialist
(man or woman), the comic second waiter,
the Gay Old Dog (Old Cat’s Husband) and
the well-dressed guests (all more or . less
titled, like the people the English illus-
trated weeklies run after) who are always
waiting around the corner ready to sing,
dance or march and use their hands like
puppies’ paws. London has got it all stan-
dardised now, and “To-night’s the Night,”
finely dressed and mounted, is the stuff that
all these screams are made of.
* * * *
Dainty Dorothy Brunton leads the
featherweight show with assured dash; but
on the opening night a drab little girl-super
with a penny flag, marched on with
the others to make a dab of pathos, trans-
formed a merciless patriotic ballad of the
star’s into a roaring comic song by turning
hrerself into a clockwork Bernhardt behind
the singer. Some of the stage girls who do
the fashion-book attitudes tried mistakenly
to straighten up the tiny comedienne; but
the house had spotted the performance and
Dorothy had to pick up the poor kid and
share the applause with her. Maud Fane,
who is in the cast as one of the young wives,
hasn’t many opportunities. _ Connie Ediss,
as the English-French maid who. falls on
and off the sofa, stays out all night, and
comes back looking very weatherbeaten to
give notice, lets slip the few words that
show the ancient French farce-origin of. the
show. Querulous Connie is at her best in a
“So Long, Letty” wrapper or early-morning
disarray. Little Rita Nugent and Jack
Hooker supply an eccentric step dance. It
is one of the best things in a show that is
so light that it has to be held down with a
sofa. Field Fisher, Workman, Maguire,
Plunkett, Marie Eaton, Cecil Bradley and
others are all at their accustomed posts
doing their little bits. There is plenty of
song-and-dance talent available, and some
more of it could be used if a few tons of the
wearisome plot-explanations were jettisoned.


6^
&
BOORD&SOIV
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
i
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
p star
RE WHISKY.
PEA PE S SC? lIP
A Light and Shapely Panama
m
A well-blocked hat made from the real
South American straw, evenly plaited
and sun-bleached. These hats are finished
in England by manufacturers who are
conversant with Australian requirements.
Brims vary from 2f to 3 inches. Early
ordering is advisable, as stocks are now
difficult to procure.
and
We pay postage. Please state size and
width of brim required.
Peapes &, Co., Ltd
309 (Si 311 GEORGE STREET,
• 9
SYDNEY.
Men’s
Outfitters,
The shamrocks will sprout again at Syd-
ney Palace on Saturday, when Allen Doone
opens with “Happy Go Lucky O’Shea.”
Probable ingredients: Tinder sintimint, pay-
tliriotism, an’ th’ phoneygraph that wance
through Tara’s halls th’ curse av music shed.
* * * :|=
“While the Billy Boils” la composite
stage-version of Henry Lawson’s various
story-books, arranged by Beaumont Smith)
opens at Sydney Royal on Saturday under
the direction of E. J. Carroll and the
adapter. It is a dramatic experiment which
has the good wishes of reading Australia
and all who know Lawson. The names of
players lan Maclaren, Arthur Styan, G.
Kay Souper, Tom Cannam and Esther
.Mitchell guarantee a sound performance.
“Romance,” which is Madge Fabian,
seems in for a long run at Sydney Criterion;
and a play that can survive its silly and
unconvincing prologue, which is chiefly
gramophone selections and a gaiterless
bishop, and its epilogue, which is merely
bathos and more bathrobed bishop, deserves
its success.
$
Till the Follies come back on October 9,
Sydney Tivoli is keeping the wolf from the
door and dragging in the paying lamb with
turns that have been mentioned before.
Cardo and Noll, the operatic specialists, and
singer Louis London are followed by Stanley
and Burns, Kelly and Pern (of the happy,
twangy “Bungalow”), O’Donnell and the
nursegirl who thinks she is Melba, the Artois
Brothers and the horizontal bars they whirl
on, the two Carlyons and Le Roy, and one
or two others.
At Sydney picture-shows this week
Hoyt’s : “The Snow Bird,” an entertaining story
playing in and out among the beauties of Hudson
Bay; “A Woman’s Past,” which won’t stand too
close investigation'; “Monster British Guns” ; and a
couple of comedy touches.
Lyceum : “Hell’s Hinges,” in which a Rev. Yar-
rington cowboy blows up the underworld with his
six-shooter; “The Little Schoolma’am,” a remarkable
child-actor film; and Charlie Chaplin among the
lobsters and fantods of “One A.M.”
A revival of “The Geisha” at Melbourne
Majesty’s throws no new light on the
mystery of its enormous success 20 years
. ago. When first produced at Daly’s Theatre,
London, this weak-minded combination of
comic opera and musical comedy ran for
26 months without a break. Even Aus-
tralia, which wanted a lot of pleasing at
that time, enthused over the new thing on
account of its simple flowing melodies and
its audacious plagiarisms from “Mikado,”
and because George Lauri was fitted with a
big fat part in it. Nowadays the plot seems
ridiculous, the dialogue mostly unworthy of
Owen Hall, who afterwards wrote “Floro-
dora,” and the jingling lyrics painfully
puerile. They are feeble narrative ditties
as a rule, the unsentimental ones, written
for the frisky comedy lady, demanding from
her certain tricks of mimicry. Minnie Love,
in the part of Molly Seamore, is an extra-
large size frisky tomboy, and her warble is
no great shakes ; but she has a happy turn
for mimicry, and her genial vivacity is a
notable feature of the show. Minnie is
always something more than likeable and
less than adorable. Perhaps she would be
quite adorable if she subjected her round
shoulders to a course of Sandow exercise.
Phil Smith is satisfactory as a worried
Chow who carelessly lapses into cockney-
isms. Ethel Cadman, whilst singing the
name-part artistically, acts it in a tame,
perfunctory way. Hudson —a less affected
Derek than of yore, but not in such good
voice on Saturday—has more to sing and
say than Holland and Ralston, who are less
convincing sons of the sea than Nellie
Payne. This little midshipman is a streak
of sunshine. Bantoek is a dull sort of Jap
potentate; Millie Engler, Alice Bennetts and
Charles Albert fill small parts; likewise
Reg Roberts, who does his little bit very
carefully. Chorus and orchestra will be
kept busy by “The Geisha” for another
week. Then “The Cinema Star.”
** * *
C. J. Dennis has found in Lawrence
Campbell an almost ideal interpreter of his
Sentimental Bloke. The elocutionist, who
arrived at Melbourne Athenaeum on Satur-
day, tells Bill’s story with a spirit and
humor that implies complete understanding
of the points of the character. A quiet,
unaffected delivery and a gift for facial ex-
pression are the entertainer’s chief assets,
but he also possesses an artistic restraint
that prevents him depicting comedy with
circus effects, or drowning a pathetic scene
in counterfeit tears. He gets the last ounce
of allowable humor out of such items as
“Hitched,” for example, and feelingly sug-
gests in “Beef Tea” the sentimental hiatus
between Bill and Doreen, when a little extra
emphasis either way would result in mushy
anti-climax ruining the pictures. Lawrence
Campbell relates the history of Bill’s emer-
gence from the Bloke state and his rise to
the dignity of a family man in 13 racy
chapters, and will continue to do it until
further notice.
“It Pays to Advertise” is exalting the
virtues of No. 13 soap for six nights and
one matinge at Melbourne Royal. The duty
of booming the amazing merchandise again
falls on Hale Hamilton, who revels in the
job with a tongue refreshed by its recent
comparative inaction in “Too Many Cooks.”
Hale is vociferous in his most frenzied
moments, but he has some moderately quiet
periods when he can be just heard in
Bourke-street. Donald Bowles figures
afresh as Rodney Martin, whom Mary
Grayson adopts for life. Donald disguises
a character full of pugnacity and Amurkan
push with an exquisite bleat, and by some
effort of acting or natural charm makes the
impersonation attractive enough. The
dollar-hunger of Mary aforesaid occasionally
brings a cash-register look on the face of
Myrtle Tannehill, but generally she
doesn’t look as though she should be
accused of the heroine’s striking business
qualities. Nancye Stewart, promoted to the
part of the Comtesse de Beaurien, is confi-
dent and untroubled in all her phases as the
bogus aristocrat and spieleress. Edwin
Lester, who formerly appeared as William
Smith (now a forte baritone role by Arthur
Cornell), has less capacity for exasperation
than the previous exponent, Tom MeLarnie.
The only other change of note is the minor
eruption of Mattee Brown in the part of
the French maid. Next Saturday the long-
promised comedy, “A Full House,” will be
road a first time.
A week’s revival of “Quinneys” at the
Melbourne Playhouse is mainly interesting
for the first appearance of Gregan McMahon
in the role of Joe Quinney, formerly made
massive and bucolic by Arthur Styan.
Joseph is less physically dominating in the
hands of McMahon; but Mac’s imperso-
nation is equally forceful and dogmatic and
has a stronger artistic flavoring. Styan,
with all his technical excellence, never sug-
gested an art dealer born to the business.
He presented the improbable picture of a
connoisseur of turnips and mangel-wurzels
afflicted with the collecting mania late in
life. Eily Malyon resumes her convincing
grief as Susan Quinney, and Joy Gwyn
returns to the drudgery of making Posy
Quinney as alluring as possible. W. H. L.
Cooper again refuses to flatter the author to
the extent of looking agreeably employed in
the character of Miggott. Cooper’s furni-
MELBOURNE AT HEN MUM.
Lawrence Campbell in “The Sentimental
Bloke.”
ture-fakir is a cold, self-satisfied youth suf-
fering from a repellent, knife-like utterance.
An amiable humbug, with the hardihood of
a commercial swindler and the moral string-
ency of an ordinary cad, is brother-
in-law Tomlin as Spencer Holroyd sees him.
Miss Handley, as Mabel Dredge, plumbs
the depths of despair as before; and two
new hands, Kingsley Norris and Claude
Thomas, take refuge in the small parts of
Cyrus Hunsaker and Dupont Jordan and
spend a very quiet evening.
At Melbourne Princess’s there will be a
further variation in “The Follies of Plea-
sure” next Saturday. The new bill will
present the same lot of shapely legs in
“Fun with the Coachman” and “In Mexico.”
* * * *
The reception given to Dad and the rest
of the Rudd family at Melbourne King’s
last Saturday suggests that “On Our Selec-
tion” has become a habit with a lot of
people, like meals. They just eat it every
time the Bert Bailey Co. comes along, and
have always got an edge on their appetite.
A new Billy Bearup, with the regulation
falsetto, is the only change in the cast since
the last time Sarah turned her thoughts to
love. The wrath of Dad is still associated
with Bailey s whisker-patch, and Dave’s nose
turns up in the same old place, and the voice
of Mum continues to sound like a noise
borrowed from a sawmill.
For the information of those who have
not yet heard Paul Dufault sing the Mar-
seillaise it may be mentioned that his week
at A|elbourne Auditorium will not be up
until Saturday.
The Tivoli Follies will be more or less
entertaining for one more Melbourne week,
and meanwhile Daisy and Sydney Yates
have joined the Mclntosh forces. They
dance as they lately danced for Williamson,
or even more so, and the plaudits of the
congregation are loud and long sustained.
A picture of Verdun and its surroundings
lends variety to the programme at Hoyt’s
theatres, Melbourne, this week. It is only
a long series of tableaux depicting soldiers
and guns, battered buildings and silent
misery, but it gives the spectator some idea
of the punishment France has received and
delivered in the locality. Of the fiction the
most remarkable samples are two breathless
stories called “Blazing Love” and “The
Quitter.” The first, featuring the beauteous
Virginia Pearson, is not so torrid as its title
suggests. The other illustrates a protracted
combat over the usual sweet girl, with
plenty of artillery practice among the con-
tending parties.
At an art show: —
Irene Rentoul-Outhwaite has a roomful of
brownies and fairies on view at the Melbourne
Centreway. The G.-G. did the official opening, and
afterwards bestowed connoisseur glances on the won-
derful menagerie that the artist had collected.
Rackham’s eerie color schemes and much of his
technical dexterity are disclosed by this clever lady
in several fancies that arrest the grown-up eye and
give small children delicious shudders. The tinted
work is the best, and there is good excuse for linger-
ing over such things as “The Spirits of the
Bush Fire,” “The Moon Boat,” and “The Witch.”
In black and white the artist is graceful and imagi-
native, but her meticulously careful pen-line some-
times so hardens the effect that the sense of fantasy
is lost, and myth looks as everyday as Smith. Her
fairies, however, are charming, and her drawing of
trees is really fine.
❖* * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has been giv-
ing Synge’s “Tinker’s Wedding”—from the
Church point of view, a shocking little
piece: the parish priest drinks with the
lowest tipplers, chaffers over marriage fees,
and finally, showing a nasty spirit over the
theft of a tin can which formed part of the
fee, is tied up by the tinkers with his head
in a bag. Poor stuff. Ray Walsh, sound
as ever, almost succeeded in making the
farcical figure seem a priest of reality, but
chief honors go to Mrs. Bastard as a tip-
pling, talkative gypsy woman. “Miss
Civilisation,” a one-acter, by the late Hard-
ing Davis, ought to be already popular in
the “regular” theatre. Blacked-out stage,
with files heard at work, and a girl tele-
phoning very quietly for help; then three
burglars, and the girl entertaining them at
supper, with chaff, argument and defiance,
till the help comes. It is a modern parallel
to “Comedy or Tragedy,” which Gilbert
wrote for Mary Anderson. The leading part
would be hard to go wrong in, and Kitty
Sullivan did it full justice, except that she
made no attempt at the American accent.
Young, handsome, graceful and already
skilled, Miss Sullivan is a valuable addition
to Adelaide’s long list of amateurs.
Adelaide Tivoli has a local monopoly of
the spoken drama just now, the dashing old
“Tommy Atkins” being Anderson’s attrac-
tion for the week. The Fuller extravaganza
crowd has wisely moved from the King’s to
the larger stage of the Majestic (to which
house Dan Thomas, Mankin the frog, and
other clever people should have been credited
last week), and Waller’s' Strollers at the
Queen’s once again prove themselves strong-
est on the musical side. West’s has a
delightful picture in which a timid would-be
suicide hires an assassin to put him out of
liis misery, and then, changing his mind,
has to dodge the executioner with great
agility. Wondergraph films the old Brough
success, “The Masqueraders.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
Elocutionist Lawrence Campbell, from
Sydney, is now at the Athenaeum elocuting
“The Sentimental Bloke,” whose creator
was C. J. Dennis. Campbell is a rawboned
Scot with a full acre of gleaming forehead
and fierce, over-hanging eyebrows which
have weathered the storms of 10 million
recitations. His dress suit is cut in the
style of 1820 —but that makes no difference.
W hat did make a difference on Saturday
was the streaming weather. Good for the
country perhaps, but bad for the showman.
(( Playhouse had a poor audience for
Quinneys” on Saturday. The rain had
descended for two days and two nights with-
out ceasing, and though the theatre itself is
cosy and warm, it sits by the river and takes
getting to. Probably it was the wetness
outside that led to an extra turn. A huge
rat leaped from the heavy folds of the cur-
tain as it was dropped and made across the
stage, to the horror of the stalled Women
in front. People in the audience who come
from Yorkshire commended the brand of
accent used by Gregan McMahon and Eily
Malyon. But they had no praise for the
Repertory Rat.
Melba gave an exhibition of singing tui-
tion in the presence of the G.-G. and Lady
Helen last week. Every one of her students
came up to scratch, and faced the music
like Anzacs. When the last scale was fin-
ished his Ex. confided to the assembly that
he knew more about bagpipes than grand
opera. And then he praised. Melba —from a
bagpiper’s point of view, no doubt—and
made himself pleasant generally.
“Pen”: The actor Theodore Hamilton,
who has just died in America, was the first
man to wear white spats on an Australian
stage. _ As Archibald Carlyle in “East
Lynne” he showed Melbourne the feet-
wraps in the old Princess’s Theatre in ’7B,
where, by the way, he played with Mrs.
Mary Gladstone, a brilliant actress. I sub-
sequently discovered this lady, poor and
broken-through no faults of her own —in
New York. She was then performing in a
dime museum.
The divorce suit of divinely tall Daisy
Yates v. exceptionally diminutive Dan
Thomas, heard in Melbourne last week,
seems to have been decided without dragging
in the testimony of a local woman journalist
who interviewed the little pantomime
“dame” when he first came to Melbourne
with Marlow’s co. At that time Dan’s
lawful Daisy was looking for him in
S’Africa, but another charmer was intro-
duced to the interviewer as “Mrs. Thomas,”
and was written of accordingly. Seeing
that the spurious Mrs. T. had loomed so
large in her matrimonial capacity, it was
magnanimous of Daisy Yates to give her
errant hubby a chance to “make it up for
the sake of the child.” His stage name, by
the way, is constructed on much the same
lines as that of the late Lewis Waller—a
perversion of W alter Lewis. His wife' got
her decree nisi against Thomas Henry
Daniels.
Freda Bennett, youngest daughter of Syd-
ney News Alfred Bennetts, who owned the
Dailey-built mansion of Clairvaux at Rose
Bay for nearly 80 years, made her profes-
sional bow to the public last week in the
Criterion production of “Romance.” Good
looks, good hair and some solid amateur
experience are among her assets, and should
be a help along the pathway to a star.
The old Norfolk Arms, in Rundle-street.
Adelaide, now balances on the brink of a
hole which is going to be a new picture
theatre. The old Clarence in King William-
street, which did the same for a time, while
the Majestic Theatre was being erected on
the site of the original Tivoli (or Bijou),
is now just being finished as a four-storey
Majestic Hotel —a fair match for the
Exchange, alongside of which it stands.
They want a lot of good-bye, these
show people. The latest to return for another
helping is Maskelyne, the conjurer, showing,
when the last mail left, at St. George’s,
London. The ancient cabinet and box trick
was again his star line. Fifty-two years
ago he claims to have invented it. and since
then he has performed it 11,000 times.
Yet he repenteth not, although he is 77 and
cannot have much longer to live.
Tom Shelford and Harry J. Ford, the
thin and plump comedians of “The Glad
Eye” Comedy Co., have joined the artillery
in England, and Laurence Hardinge, brother
of the rotund Bob Greig, is in camp with
the Flying Corps.
(Continued on page 26.)
NOT IN MEMORIAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“American newspapers estimate that the ratio of
screen to stage actors is now 100 to I.’’
He had ranted for twenty-five years on the stage;
Other stars all acceded priority.
Then they missed his voice, charged with emotional
rage—
He had passed to the silent majority.
VICTORIA.
BOB DEXTER.


DAVID JONES’
“ORIENT” SILK SUIT
50/-
The Suit illustrated, cut in ordinary lounge style, suitable alike
for business or holiday wear, consists of coat and trousers only,
thereby dispensing with the unnecessary vest during the hot weather.
The material is a fine Nan Shan Silk, in a biscuit shade of uniform
color, with a well-defined rib. Will launder excellently and not
shrink, if washed in hot soapy water —do not boil.
In all Men’s sizes. Ready-to-wear 50/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
u\
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The bitter cry of an Australian officer
after the Pozieres push :
For Heaven’s sake, teach Billjim Avhen to stop!
Hundreds of the finest, bravest felloAvs in the world
are lying out there simply because they reckoned
they could do more than they Avere asked to do and
tried to do it. The plan Avas to take two trenches
and a communication trench, and hold them. The
staff had worked out everything to fit in with that.
Our fellows took the two trenches at a gallop. “Oh,
this is too easy!” they said. “AVe can do another.”
They rushed the third and occupied it. Then two
things happened. The Germans flooded the trench,
and our fellows found they were without
supports and must get back. But the Ger-
mans had come in behind them. Machine guns
and artillery could not help them: they could not
do damage to the enemy without killing their own
men who Avere iioav fighting their Avay home. The
slaughter Avas horrible, and Avhen it Avas over they
Avere too weak and exhausted to hold even the second
line, Avhich, before, they could have held easily.
This eagerness is magnificent. In any other sort of
Avarfare it might be invincible. But in this siege
Avar, this conflict of great guns, there must be the
most perfect collaboration. It is machine Avarfare.
Get them drilled into this. They may be able to do
more than they are told. But to do just Avhat they
have been told to do is the best they can do. In
this business to do more is not to do better. Say
it again and again, and Avrite it up in letters a foot
long.
* * * *
“Bobstay”: By a coincidence the same
week which saw the wreck of the oldest
sea-going steamer on the Australasian
Register (the Storm bird) Avitnessed the
decease of the most ancient Avindjammer—
the iron barque Antiope. This old packet,
built in ’66, Avent ashore at the Bluff
(M.L.) and became a total wreck. Con-
demned last year to be a hulk, the Antiope
Avas again commissioned when scarcity of
tonnage began to be keenly felt. The old
girl was Avell known on both sides of the
Pacific, as she ran in the lumber-one-way
and coal the-other trade for nearly half a
century. Her last A r oyage was always being
predicted, so the pessimists scored when
she was safely wrecked.
* * * *
“Court Reporter”: It happened recently
at the Coroner’s Court, Parramatta
(N.S.W.), and lam prouder than ever of
the Australian spirit. The case was one in
which a returned wounded soldier was con-
cerned with the death of a boy 10 years old.
The soldier was shooting with a pea-rifle in
the bush on the outskirts of Lidcombe, Avhen
five boys and a dog joined him. The dog
jumped on the trigger of the rifle, exploding
the charge and fatally wounding one of the
boys. The point that was not quite clear
was whether the rifle, at the time, was being
held by the soldier or was lying on the
ground. The boy witness who delighted me
but horrified the coroner and the sergeant of
police had seen the importance of that point,
too, and it transpired that he took immediate
precautions to defend the soldier, by telling
the other boys to say that Bill Anzac was
not carrying the rifle when the dog jumped on
the trigger, but that it was lying on the
ground. At the court he admitted that it
was a lie. but he wasn’t going to let a
wounded Billjim get into trouble if a lie
would save him. And though all parties
combined to assure him that he was the
wickedest boy in the County of Cumberland
he looked as though he’d chance it, if neces-
sary, another time.
Justice Powers, of the High Court, has
made another amazing discovery—that
young women should not be paid the same
amount of money for doing the same
amount of work as young men, because
young women are not supposed to be saving
up to buy furniture, etc. On the same
principle, if Justice Powers has one child
and Justice Smith has nine, it plainly
shouldn’t matter whether Justice Powers
and Justice Smith do the same sort of
work and the same amount of it —Justice
Smith should get about three times as much
as Powers. The Bulletin hopes to see
Powers either recommend this to Parlia-
ment or throw his rotten theory overboard.
No reprieve came for Antonio Pic-one, the
Italian fruiterer who on July 25 fired three
shots from an automatic at his enemy,
Giuseppe Lauricella, a compatriot in the
same line of business, and laid him dead on
the pavement of the Victoria Market amid
the startled bargainers. Picone, having no
influential friends, was hanged in Mel-
bourne Gaol. His sole request oefore he
went on to the drop was that a photograph
and a lock of hair that he treasured should
be buried with him. The hangman, a free
man, had insured his anonymity by smudg-
ing his face with black and fringing it Avith
Avhiskers that put those of the Auld Licht
elders in an impenetrable shade. The
hangman’s chief of staff, who, though
undergoing a sentence, did flashy justice to
the permission accorded him to wear civilian
clothes, resembled the hero of a movie
drama. Picone, whose sanity seems to have
been doubtful, might at least, if not granted
a reprieve, have been spared this vaudeville
turn AA’ith a fake nigger in it.
* * * *
Miss Golding, of the Women’s Progressive
Association, giving evidence before the
N.SAV. Parliamentary Committee on Ven-
ereal Diseases, said that, “while she would
not favor medical examination of both
parties before marriage, she thought a father
Avould be justified in asking his future son-in-
law for a certificate of health.” Possibly Miss
Golding may believe that there is no need to
worry about the goose if she makes sauce for
the gander, but some recent evidence given
to the committee by Dr. Maitland —who is a
colonel-surgeon in the Commonwealth De-
fence Forces —suggests a doubt: —
The disease that is being spread abroad is com-
ing: from the clandestine immoral girl, who is out-
wardly respectable. ... Down at Milson’s Island
(Sydney) I have had, in seven months, 2000 eases
of men suffering from venereal diseases, and I find that
the greatest number of these patients blame the Cen-
tral Railway Station. They confess that there has been
no talk of payment, and I know that these girls
keep away from the medical men and are not
known to the police.
Most of those “outwardly respectable” girls
will marry, and ev T en Miss Golding may he
inclined to admit that there are vast possi-
bilities in that fact.
* * * *
Some years ago the Victorian Parliament
voted an annual £lOOO to the Melbourne
University for research scholarships, the
idea being to set the brainy Australian
student hunting for some nevv thing that
might be useful to his country. A good
start was made by spending the cash solely
on science research, but in 1911, acting on
the brilliant suggestion of the Education
Department, the University authorities
began to hand out awards for other sub-
jects. Lately the Assembly’s Public
Accounts Committee, perhaps suspecting
that the “research” students might have dug
up something that would be useful in these
stressful war times, went along to inquire,
and in its report mentioned some of the
nationally-valuable subjects on which the
money had been spent:—
A Statistical Inquiry into the Health of Austra-
lian Woman Graduates, £5O; the Scottish Political
Exiles to Australia, 1793-4, £100; Holinshed’s
Chronicles, £75; The Median Sagittal Tracing of
the Crania of Prehistoric Man, £5O; an Inquiry
into the Sources of some of Shakspeare’s Plays and
the Relations between Quartos and Folios, £5O;
The Exercise of the Prerogative of Dissolution in
Australasia, £100; Kant's Critique of Practical
Reason, £75; The Norma Facialis of the Aus-
tralian and Tasmanian Aboriginal Crania, £125.
The Committee reckoned that these things
were very well in their way, but as they
didn’t produce two cartridges where there
was only one before, the Assembly might
mention the need for cartridges when Act-
ing the next £lOOO, or words to that effect.
* * * «
The first foothill at Glen Osmond,
where the main road from Adelaide to
Mount Barker —or to Melbourne, for that
matter —strikes the Mt. Lofty Range, has
been rescued from the clutches of a
soap-firm, which proposed to decorate it
with an ad. in 50-foot letters dug into the
PROOF OF SOBRIETY.
WIFEY: “You came home very late last night."
HUBBY : “I looked at the clock when I got in and it teas only one."
WIFEY : “I didn’t say you were intoxicated. I said you were late."
turf. An Act just passed through the S.A.
Parliament will prevent such capers in
future. Part of the scheme was to remove
the old chimney on the hillside, but the co.
promised to let it stand on representation
being made that it has historic interest. It
was part of the plant of a silver-lead mine
which tried its luck there 70 years ago.
After being abandoned it was found to give,
when taken in line with the G.P.O. tower,
a useful bearing to ships away in the Gulf;
so it has been whitewashed periodically
ever since, and kept standing for that pur-
pose. The mixture of sentiment and utility
will probably be enough to preserve it
indefinitely, especially as the hill-slope is
too steep for use.
FELICITIES.
THE GIBE: “You'll never make me believe
that opals are unlucky. Why, I was
wearing them the day I became engaged
to Herbert."
THE CAT: “But what about Herbert, dear?"
“Mary McCommonwealth”: A London
writer pleads for the standardisation of
woman’s dress. As a war economy it is the
best proposal yet put forward. Nobody has
worked out the difference between the cost of
a regulation female uniform and the amount
at present expended, but it can be safely
said that it would be enough to pay the
interest on the war loans. N. S. Wales has
a Bill before Parliament permitting women
to wear trousers if they want to; but,
trousers or skirts, the great economy w’ould
lie in clothing all women in the same stuff,
made on the same pattern and produced
cheaply in Australian workshops from
material made and grown in Australia.
Besides urging men to recruit and shed their
blood for their protection, what are women
doing to help on the war, anyhow? A lot
of them have given their sons and husbands,
and those may be tremendously big items ; but
many more have only given knitted socks
and a few entertainments, which amount to
nothing compared with the sacrifice of wear-
ing a national uniform. The change, besides
saving millions, would really promote happi-
ness, because the average man would be
able to arrive at a much juster estimate of
the average girl. At present women are
largely what their clothes make them, but
dressed in a national uniform they would
be largely what they are.
* * * *
“Plumber”: I met little Billy Anzac
yesterday. He is just five, ginger and
freckled, and his father runs a dairy farm.
I had called in to see if there Avas any work
waiting for me. The missus said _ she
thought not, so I left. I had about finished
a small job at the house half a mile further
on, when I heard voices at the back door.
“ ’Day, Mrs. Greenfield; is the plumber
here?” “Yes, Billy.” “Hullo plumber!
Dad says please come back. He wants the
cooler pump fixed.” “All right, Billy; I’ll
be done here in two minutes. You wait out
by the cart.” Ten minutes later, as I slung
the tools in and lifted William up, I noticed
his wrist \\-as cut rather badly and didn’t
look as if it was going to stop bleeding. As
I bound my handkerchief round it I asked
him how he did it. “On a bit of glass in the
dairy window.” “But why didn’t you get your
mother to tie it up?” “I was going to, but
Dad said if I didn’t catch you here you’d
get away, and you wouldn’t be round again
for a month ; so I didn’t let on.”
ISABELLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Isabelle, a naughty cat,
Licking a sweetmeat, seems to sin.
Eve with her apple did not grin
Like Isabelle, under her hat.
What does her slit-eyed husband know?
She lets him, doting, hold her glove.
He can see all lie wants above... .
But what about
the dear girl's toe?
VICTORIA.
HUGH McCRAE.


m
Black 19/6, Tan 21/- Pair.
POST FREE.
this is the
“STOCKMAN”
rF you prefer the STRAPPED
Riding Boot, here is the hest of
its kind. Made from selected
Willow Calf; either Black or ■Tan.
Fastens with two straps and buckles'
single soles.
LIGHT AND STRONG, WITH
PLENTY OF COMFORT AS WELL
AS SERVICE.
Please state whether Black or Tan, also size,
when ordering.
PIKE BROTHERS
TOWNSVILLE. BRISBANE.
LTD.
TOOWOOMBA.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hbte luncheon
h la carte luncheon, from
Table d’hote dinner
Dining-room Open to Non-residents
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
2/6
1/6
3/6
“Silas Snell”, tells a true tale:—
There had been several burglaries in the suburbs
and Constable Clamm was very alert. Tucked in the
shadow of a pepper tree opposite be had seen the man
enter the garden at No. 9. He had watched, and the
door at No. 9 had not opened. Observing due pre-
cautions, Constable Clamm also stole into the garden
at No. 9. Creeping from bush to bush, he located
his quarry at work on a side window. Having shot
the window latch with his knife, the man opened the
window; then he sat on the sill and removed his
boots. It was while he was struggling with the
second boot that Constable Clamm did his dash. The
capture was easy. The other fellow offered no resist-
ance ; he merely looked Constable Clamm in the
face and grinned a bland, fatuous grin. “Fact ish
I’m married man,” he said. “If my wife knew I
was cornin’ ’ome at thish hour of the mornin’ she’d
lift the roof. Why should she know ? I put it to
you, offisher, as man to man, why Should a mansh
wife know when a man conies home?” Constable
Clamm was disconcerted. “ ’Tis no way to enter
your house afther midnight,” he said. “All
dependsh,” said the man in the window. “If you’re
single, you pleasli yourself; if you’re married, you
don’t displeash your wife. ’S tha’ true? Now we’re
friendsh, have drink —haveadrink wish me.” Con-
stable Clamm didn't mind if he did. The man stole
into the dark interior. He presently stole back with
two generous helpings of whisky. Constable Clamm
took one, and drank it with liberal good wishes.
Then the policeman withdrew from the case. He was
still half-dead with sleep when he reported. He
understood why when he knew that No. 9 had been
burgled that morning in the early hours and £212
worth of booty removed.
THE NEW ALLY.
“I believe polygamy will have to come in
soon.”
“ That’s a good job. We can’t have too many
on our side.”
Will Lawson’s few words over the bones:
When the Stormbird, flying light, was lushed at
the W anganui bar and, finding the task impossible,
climbed over the western mole, she broke in halves.
But that is not the first time she has been in two
pieces. Built on the Clyde in 1854, the little vessel
was hauled up on the beach at Wellington 33 years
ago and a gang of ironworkers headed by one David
Robertson cut through her waist with cold chisels.
Eighteen feet of new framing and plating was intro-
duced between the original halves, and her
clipper bow was also straightened. It is proposed
now to erect a sort of memorial to her on the
wharf at Wellington. The most interesting part of
the old smoker was the deck-bell. For years it
hung behind the steersman on the bridge with'
“Stormbird 1854,” graven on it. When the dispute
began as to whether she or the Edina or a half-dozen
other vessels were the oldest steamer afloat, the
bell was removed to a more secluded place. Perhaps
it has been lost utterly in the wreck; survivors tell
that they heard it toll as the old identity jumped
the mole.
A CHANGE OF COMMAND.
“This place is under new management, I see."
“Why, the old proprietor is still about.”
“Yes, but he got married last week.”
“P.X.”: When young Hotsox got the
military census card last year asking him
when he would be willing to go up for train-
ing he was one of the hundreds who tried
to cover their shame with flippancy. “When
the roses bloom again,” young Hotsox said.
The other day a very limp Hotsox junior
collapsed in a chair as he opened his mail.
“The roses are blooming again,” it said.
“Report to your military area headquar-
ters.”
* * * *
“Quill” : Tom Rolin, K.C., struggles with
an avalanche of figures to prove that “under
350 people in Australia have incomes
of over £5OOO, under 7200 people have in-
comes of more than £lOOO. and only about
25,000 people have incomes of more than
£5OO a year”:—
The “wealthy” people drawing over £5OOO a
year take 1J per cent, of the total income....
People drawing £5OO a year and upwards draw
£24,298,681 out of the total £183,374,102; that
is to say, just over 13 per cent, of the total.
The answer is that the war-census cards, on
which the cheerful Iv.C. proceeds, are open
to a lot of suspicion. Take, for instance, the
allegation that under 7200 people have
incomes of more than £lOOO a year. In
Victoria alone there are 11,230 persons with
taxable incomes of from £5Ol upwards. If
allowance be made for the exemptions con-
ceded by law, Vic. alone can have nothing less
than 10,000 inhabitants with over £lOOO per
annum. That is, 2800 more than Mr. Rolin
allows for all Australia. He tells us that
people drawing £5OO a year and more get
only 13 per cent, of the aggregate Australian
income. I am entitled to say that my
friend’s evidence is no good even if I can't
produce any good evidence myself. I say
there is no conclusive evidence on the sub-
ject. But there is this evidence. Of the
N S. Wales income-tax payers 3 per cent,
are in receipt of 34 per cent, of the total
income on which taxation is levied. Tom
Rolin’s idea is that the inequality of wealth
is of not much account, after all. Perhaps,
in spite of the fact just cited, he is right.
But if he is it is quite an accident, because
he has used ridiculously misleading figures
to help mm to his conclusion.
“Splodger” : On the cheery subject of the
hangman’s fee. Years ago in the Kimberley
(W.A.) district a white man was murdered
by two blacks, who were later caught and con-
demned to be hanged at the spot the local
reporter would have marked with a cross if
there had been any local reporter. The hour
fixed for the function approached, but no
hangman was forthcoming. Tenders were
then hastily called, and £6O per head was the
lowest. I believe the hard-case who got the
job gave good value for the money. At
any rate, neither of the customers com-
plained.
Melbourne was recently asked by the
State War Council to do something special
in the way of raising cash for its repatria-
tion fund. A committee of citizens was
formed, discussed the matter at length, and
finally decided in the most brilliant manner
that its effort should take the form of yet
another “queen” com-
petition. The War
Council frowned on
the proposal, though
the idea promised a
large sum, since the
whole State was to be
the field of “queen”
selection ; but the com-
mittee is going on
with its plan, all the
same. The money
won’t go to the sol-
diers, however, but to
various charities. By-
and-bye, of course, a
yet larger effort will
be started by some
inspired idiot to dis-
cover the boss “queen”
of all Australia; and
in that day. if it is
still sane, this country
will put its foot down
and decide to ■ sustain
its “charities” by taxation, and so avoid
much frill and waste.
The confessions of “0.K.” :
I hate the wowser for his hypocritical self-righteous-
ness and intolerance. Yet in mine old age I find
myself drifting gently towards wowserism as regards
drinking, gambling and even smoking.
I would do more than merely close the pubs at 6
o’clock if I were king. No man should profit by
the production of liquor or be financially interested
iu inducing his fellow citizens to fill ’em up again.
If pubs were State enterprises, carried on under a
system of Government inspectorship, every manager
would be a vigilant preserver of sobriety on the
premises, under penalty of dismissal if he wasn’t.
As regards the gambling evil, which cannot be
eliminated from commercial business, I would con-
fine betting on horse-races to the racecourse by means
of the tote. In this, I know, I am dead opposed to
the wowser, but that is only because wowserism
still remains ill-instructed. My dismal bloodless
brother believes that the tote would provide further
facilities for the temptation, ruination and damna-
tion of sinners who refuse to be miserable. He
knoweth not the game. It abolishes the temptation
ot the betting shops in town, and reduces the losses
or punters on the course. The legalised tote, like
the quality of mercy, is twice blessed. Indeed it
is thrice blessed, for it aids the hospitals in a
socialistic way, and must eventually get the sorrow-
tin sanction of the snufflebusters. As a strictly worldly
wowser I pray for the coming of the tote to Vic-
toria. I would fain be delivered by the Law from
some temptation, and be benefited by the decent
dumb machine which pays a dividend on the second
gee-gee in a race.
And as regards smoking, which is hateful to the
average wowser and injurious to anybody when
practised to excess, why, in the name of common
sense, is the vendor of tobacco privileged to trade
after 6 o’clock? llow comes it that the suffragettes
have overlooked this glaring example of man-made
legislation, and that my dismal brother has averted
his fishy gaze from the sinful anomaly? Oft in the
noisy night, after smoking more than is good for
me and being left without a cigarette, I crave for
further self-indulgence. The pubs are closed, but
the open tobacco shop lures me to its counter. The
absurdity of it! Therefore I rise to move that the
tobacco trade be brought under the same law as the
drapery and ironmongery trades.
And oh, my friends, let us jump with all our feet
—our large flat feet—upon the fallacy that men
cannot be made sober or moral by Act of Parlia-
ment. In face of the fact that Parliament does
protect us against a lot of temptation and could
save us from a good deal more, the old pernicious
maxim is still dinned into our ears. It is the creed
of the brewer, the Tory newspaper and all such
Anti-Socialists. It is the Dogma of the Devil.
“W.L.”: Five men hailing from Sydney
and Newcastle intend to navigate the paddle-
tug Ivoputai from Port Chalmers (M.L.) to
Sydney. The vessel, which was built in
Scotland in 1870 and has been churning up
sand in shallow Otago waters since early
youth, carried a carronade in her bows dur-
ing those eventful years. But Captains
Dunne and Bailey and the other three
mariners want every inch of space and every
ounce of buoyancy, so the old gun is to be
dismounted and raffled in aid of the Maori-
land patriotic funds. The Koputai’s register is
158 tons, and she couldn’t carry enough coal
to push herself right across the Tasman. At
first it was thought that a big collier would
pick her up in Cook Strait and rattle her
across the seas at the end of a towline till
Sydney Heads loomed up. But the five Aus-
tralians who have bought her and are going
to use her as a tug in Port Jackson scoffed
at the idea .of being wet-nursed. They will
fill her with coal and bend sails on the old
spars and do the trip on a mixed diet of wind
and steam. When the rush set in to Hokitika
scores of boats no bigger than the Koputai
thus barged their way across the pond.
One, the Settler, thought she was heading
for Maoriland, and was surprised to find her
nose poking into Moreton Bay. The compass
had gone overboard early in the proceedings,
The Settler never tried to go home. She
settled at Brisbane and became one of the
town’s respected residents.
THE NEW NOBILITY.
“ Don't be foolish, George — that's the
butcher’s boy.”
“ Can’t help it —he if as in the trenches with
me.”
THE WILLIETANK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the boojum, I’m the tank,
The latest thing in British swank,
The newest taxi on the rank,
The willy-nilly Willie!
A weird, terrestrial submarine,
A monster of the pleistocene,
The grimmest joke that’s ever been —
My humor knocks ’em silly !
I am the hedgehog and the slug,
I’m creme de menthe in a big jug;
The strongest dugout ever dug
Is squashed where’er I revel.
And when, contemplative, serene,
Upon a wall I lightly lean,
There’s nothing where that wall had been:
I’ve smoothed my pathway level!
I am a firing-trench on wheels,
A dreadnought on two crazy keels,
That over craters crawls and reels,
With sudden death within it.
The dizzy speed that I can make
Some beating certainly will take,
World-records I am sure to break—
I go a yard a minute!
I am the taxi that will ply
From France to Berlin by-and-bye,
Although I don’t exactly fly
I’ll get here, willy-nilly.
For I’ve arranged to pick up there
A most important passenger,
A highly-profitable fare,
Whose name is also Willie!
N.S.W.
SPEARGRASS.


THE PROPOSED BETRAYAL.
AUSTRALIA (to anti-conseriptionlst): “What! France in the claws of the monster, and you ask me not to go to her rescue— ask me to forsake the noblest toman in the world!”


THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE.
ASQUITH: “David, talk to him in Welsh and pacify him!**
A LABOR CONFERENCE. [David Low, BULLETIN Office, Melbourne.]
PEARCE: “Sing them ‘The Red Flag,’ Billy, and pacify them!"


m
Chaving
<2)TICK
xA<
For an
Ideal Shave
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
m
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
VrCaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
m
Pt>. §1
/
m
rr.
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(aILBEY’S
PRY 6IN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts S Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Sj’dney IJni. has produced an LL.D. after
a spell of 13 years; and the man who took
the degree then, Dr. Waddell, was the first
to do it after the Law School had been estab-
lished 12 years previously. The new doctor
doesn’t practise law in a regular way; he is
Frank Gellatly, who makes the S. M.
Herald’s trade and finance columns so well
worth reading. He succeeded the late Peter
Proctor as Financial Editor of the Herald
11 years ago, and has now and then put so
much ginger into his page that the old lady
has got very red in the face.
The late “Barney” Wise was very keen
on winning when once he got really inter-
ested in a case. Jack Want once told
another “silk” that he didn’t think he would
appear with Wise again—“ Barney” was
“a bit over the odds.” “You know,” he
said, “he misquoted a letter in that case
to-day.” “Yes,” said the other, “that’s
pretty bad.” “Oh, I didn’t mind him mis-
quoting,” said Want. “But he doesn’t do
it with discretion. I was on the other side,
and he ought to have made sure first that
I didn’t have a copy.”
W. G. Spence, the finest old figure in the
Labor movement in Australia, has been
“suspended” by the A.W.U. Forty years of
his life Spence has been working for the
workers. In the late ’7o’s he saw that
Chinese labor threatened the miners of Vic-
toria, and he fathered the A.M.A. When
he had seen the miners organised and
capable of fighting their own battles he took
in hand the bush workers —primarily the
shearers—till then the worst-treated body of
laborers in Australia. Nobody who doesn’t
know the violence of the pastoralists’ oppo-
sition at that time and the apparent hope-
lessness of organising nomadic labor can
realise the size of the job that this great-
hearted man faced. But he was as indomit-
able as he was gentle, as valiant as he was
unselfish and incorruptible. Ever since then
he has been the guide and philosopher of
the big bush union, the long-headed old man
who sought to benefit everybody but himself.
And now, because he can see no way out
but conscription, and because he must tell
the truth as he sees it, he is “suspended.”
He isn’t good enough to belong to the unions
which he fathered, which he fought for when
there weren’t a dozen others to do it. He
must be a sad old man—-not for himself, but
remembering that those whom the gods
destroy they first make mad.
Holman in his fine Assembly speech on
the death of B. R. Wise hinted dimly at a
good turn once done him by the deceased.
This was the good turn. Early in 1903
Holman had passed his final . exam, for
entrance to the Bar. The profession, recall-
ing the Socialist’s connection with the
Daily Post failure and his subsequent
trial, thought they saw a reason for oppos-
ing his admission, and accordingly invoked
the Bar Council. B. R. Wise was Attorney-
General at the time andj as such, head of the
Council. After hearing argument he ad-
journed the meeting until the following day.
Meantime Holman was invited to gather up
his robe and hasten to the court, where
early the following morning Wise himself
moved for his admission. Later the same
day a message came reminding the Attorney-
General of the adjourned meeting; but the
man with a heart sent back word that it
was then too late to deal with the case, as
the awful fellow had been admitted that
morning.
The Anglican gaiters at Armidale
(N.S.W.), vacant since Bishop Cooper’s
death a couple of months ago, are to be
filled by Wentworth-Sheilds, who superin-
tends Sydney’s most fashionable collection-
plate at St. James’s. His father was one
of the Ma State’s earliest railway engineers,
who worked on the plans of the first line
built from Sydney. Sheilds (one of whose
minor worries is that comps, will persist in
printing him as “Shields”) was boi'n in the
Cold Country a shade over 50 years ago.
After getting his M.A. at London he was a
curate in that city till his cousin, Dr. Bar-
low, who then bished at Goulburn (N.S.W.),
imported him in 1902 as precentor. He
afterwards shepherded at Cooma and Wagga,
in Barlow’s diocese, wearing an archdeacon’s
A Phil May drawing of fust-dead B. R.
WISE, Agent-General of N.S. Wales.
spats for a while in the latter town. In
1910. when the vestments riot broke out on
parson Carr Smith’s departure from St.
James’s, Sheilds was in a temporary job at
St. Ivilda (Vic.), and his invitation thence
to Sydney by Archgaiters Wright was the
final move in the shindy. As he is tactful
and broad-minded, he managed to keep the
congregation together and smooth its ruffled
feathers.
The Edina, which is the oldest steamer
afloat in southern waters now that the
Stormbird has gone, has probably the
skipper with the longest service on one
bridge. For 36 years Captain Forbes has
run her up and down between Melbourne
and Geelong, and her chief engineer, Nolan,
has been 33 years on his job.
The young dominie has done wonderfully
well for Australia in this war. Carl
Ivaeppel, one of the latest batch of Aus-
tralians to get the Military Cross, is another
of them. Born at Mittagong (N.S.W.y 29
years ago, of Dutch parentage, he gained
his B.A. at Sydney University with the
highest honors obtainable in classics. Since
then he has been teaching, first at the
Anglican Grammar School at North Syd-
ney, and latterly at Armidale.
HE HOPED THEY HADN’T ROBBED
HIM.
WIFE (with grieved accent ): “John, you’re
drunk!”
JOHN : “Well! I’ve toasted four-an’-shim if
I’m not.”
Politicians who represented the Northern
Territory in the S.A. Parliament have
found the experience a good stepping-stone.
Vabe Solomon (since dead) was for just one
giddy week Premier of the State; Charles
Herbert became Administrator of the Terri-
tory and is a Judge in Papua; now the
lightweight S. J. Mitchell has succeeded to
the police-magistracy in Adelaide left vacant
by the untimely death of Tom Gepp.
Theodore Flatau, killed in France at 26
while captain in the East Surrey regiment,
was boi'n in N. S. Wales and schooled at
old Sydney Grammar. After going through
Oxford, he tried the inky way and edited a
Cairo paper. Latterly he had been a Lon-
don journalist. Flatau was the author of
three novels, of which “The Soul of a
Dancer,” published while he was in Egypt,
is best known. His father is a doctor in
North Sydney, and a brother is on the staff
of London Times.
In a recent Bulletin appeared, at the
end of a fine war-story, a name which is
now on the roll of honor of the noblest
Republic. The news has just come through
of the death of Lieut. Rene Tournouer, of
the Second Zouaves, and formerly of Mel-
bourne and Ballarat. He fell when his
regiment counter-attacked at Fleury, on the
Verdun front, on July 20, after having
passed scathless through the Champagne
offensive of last September, when he won
the Croix de Guerre. Early in 1915 his
eldest brother Jacques was killed, also in
the 2nd Zouaves. It was his place that
Rene took. He will be succeeded in turn
by a third brother, Roger, formerly well
known in Maryborough (Q.). A fourth
brother, Gontran, whose Christian name,
appropriately, is the same as that of Du
Maurier’s “Zouzou,” left Brisbane in Octo-
ber, 1914, with the First Light Horse Regi-
ment. The father of these gallant lads is
a major on the staff of General Petain, the
man who saved Verdun.
W. J. Back, dead at 77. was the oldest
member of the Adelaide Stock Exchange.
He was chairman of the old “South Aus-
tralian” Exchange, and one of the 50
original members who in 1887 founded the
present body, which superseded it. The
only other survivors of the 50 are Gavin
Gardner, David Fotheringham, A. F.
Weaver and Sydney Beach.
Chaplain-Captain Mullineux, the wonder-
ful little English footballer of old, is in camp
in the Wairarapa (M.L.). Six months ago
he was running a seamen’s mission in ’Frisco.
But life in a neutral country was more than
he could put up with. His job now is to
attend to the spiritual needs of the soldiers
in the camp, and he has begun by asking for
a marquee, a piano, chairs, tables, books and
other trifles. Bibles and talks about the 12
Apostles can come later.
The death of the R.G.
Bishop of Bendigo is
announced; but, as a
fact, there has never
been any such person.
In 1875 Dr. Martin
Crane, of the order of
St. Augustine (the older
that Martin Luther
belonged to), was ap-
pointed by the Pope first
Bishop of Sandhfirst;
and. presently Dr.
Reville became his coad-
jutor. Dr. Cralie hffd
been head of an Augus-
tinian hofise of his
order in John-street,
Dublin. The church in
John-street had also a
high school for boys on
one of the quays of the
sweet-smelling Liffey,
and it was there Dr.
Reville worked before
he was sent out to Sand-
hurst, Bishop Crane hav-
ing fallen blind. That was
in 1885. He was made
nominal Bishop of Cera-
mis, and when Dr. Crane
died Reville succeeded
as Bishop of Sandhurst.
He was educated and
ordained at Ghent, in
Belgium, and he took an
enormous interest in the
War now going on. The
other day he, in his
tUrtt, applied for a dOad-
jhtor, and the clergy
sent three names to
Rome. It is very likely
one of the three —most
likely the “dignissimus”
—will now be made Bishop of Sandhurst.
Or Rome may now take the opportunity to
call the place “Bendigo.”
James Thomson, who has been a pro-
minent Laborite in Sydney ever since Dub-
lin boycotted him for participating in the
movement which Jim Larkin led, is one of
those who have blazed into wrath over the
P.L.L. attitude towards conscription.
Thomson has always been a fighter for
unionism and solidarity; but he was also
prepared to fight for the liberty that makes
both possible. He got into khaki early in
the war, has been away doing his bit, and
knows the Hun the other talkers have only
read about.
ARTHUR MYERS, Minister of Munitions,
Maoriland.
The Hun finished another son of the late
Dick O’Connor, of the High Cpurt, when
Lieut. Roderick Alan O’Connor went out
in France lately. He had a commission in
the Royal Leinsters, and only got to the
Front in May.
The Speck has got its first woman coun,-
cil-clerk: Grace Roberts is to help keep the
Huon municipality’s accounts in order.
BOOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit here humped upon my seat,
The lap iron on my knee,
And liltin'ly the leather beat.
To sew my welts and see
The little pancake world go round
Is life enough for me.
I have no dimpled babe to grab
My long, lean neb and crow ;
I live here like a hermit crab,
Not ever lonely, though,
While there’s a pile of droll old boots
To tell me all they know.
No other heeds ’em, I suppose,
Old boots so dull and dree;
They’d give most men the ’opeless joes,
But some few may agree
How very whimsical at times
A droll old boot can be.
Of well-worn brogues of black and tan
Parade a motley score,
And I'll set out what kind of man
Each moulded blucher bore;
For nought’s so like a fat man as
The boot the fat man wore.
The bright, the dull, the short, the thin,
Each his peculiar shoe,
With wrinkles twisted round a grin,
Or deep-cut lines of rue,
Or prim with straight-laced front to show
How prim his life is, too.
That’s Mossy Blobaum, fat and flat; ;
There gigglin’ Annie goes ;
What man could wear a shoe like that
But preachin’ Brother Roe?
And snub-nose Brown hops after, with
A comic turned-up toe.
But here’s the fairy twain, my son,
Cind’rella couldn’t beat,
a » vuueh each little one
Where joy and beauty meet;
A cheap pair, too, made dearest by
A pair of fair young feet.
Again she’ll dance in by-and-bye,
Brown eyes as brisk as bees.
“Not ready yet, my bird,” says I.
“The fact is, if you please,
It breaks my heart to part with such
Dear, witchin’ shoes as these!”
The width whereon my window looks
My whole wide world computes ;
I’ve only twenty tattered hooks,
But scores of substitoots;
,1 read each day my circulat-
in’ library of boots!
VICTORIA.
BOB THE COBBLER.


mm
m
m
7
1
f
■
/>•’ .»► ;s>£•
r»™' •• ‘S& .*«..>
! ’L
ygfo <&*,, *smM
r>Vv * , «Mm
fe £f?> --;
Kr’ *"»V f # . V
<
& V<f
,>/*:>'v> /v f **Yr*ir , v
s J&
** ;•** » /
84 £
1
O*
m-
w* j
j Aod#.--"’
lii>
1 lfc;fv
1 isp? '”'''■• JT'isi*
-A «S@
*VJ!o. «s
j
,ij<-
. f * **%&! ®
Vl' ;
w.iTrf J '
?wi
J*. ,liSw ->
'«W .tf.'« \S.H
SSiSSSt&Wr #*3^*
»«i£Sr
l iV%
\'k
-Vi
- i
“AUSTRAL” TAILORING
fulfils every expectation
of the Well-dressed Man.
GOOD Tailoring is essentially a matter of Good Fabrics, Good Style and Good
Workmanship the combination of which ensures a degree of satisfaction to
man who caies for his personal appearance not always experienced in
Made-to-Measure Clothes.
But it is the certainty of all these expectations being realised in an “Austral”
Sac Suit-to-Order that adds new clients to our lists each season, and brings
back old customers time and time again to order.
AL-L, NEW
FABRICS.
The New Fabrics for Spring and
Summer Wear are even better in
quality and range of pleasing
weaves and textures than might
reasonably be expected. You are
cordially invited to see them
to-day, or any day, and make a
choice or not, just as you please.
“AUSTRAL”
SAC SUITS
(TO ORDER)
63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/-, 95/-,
105/-, 115/-, 126/- to 147/-
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL
COUNTRY ORDERS.
COUNTRY
CUSTOMERS.
Those of our Customers who live
at a distance may judge of the
New Season’s Goods from Pat-
terns—which are selected with
discriminating care, where an
indication is given of their re-
quirements, and sent post free to
any address on request.
GOWING BROS., LTD.,
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
484 to 490 George Street; 3 to 17 Royal Arcade, Syd
New Branch Shop at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street).


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of: —
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
IJNO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES, containing
Read, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
m
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
STATE GUARANTEE.
For full particulars apply Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Acts as Attorney, Agent,
Administrator,
Executor and Trustee.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE— Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State Accident Insurance Office of
Victoria :
June, Revenue. Outgoings. To Reserves. Reserves.
,1915.. £27,546 £7,837 £19,709 £19,709
1916.. 25,951 17,791 8,160 27,869
But the reserves iu a case of this kind are
not accumulated profits. In the first year,
for instance, as business was only actually
written for seven months, the policies paid
for 12 months had in every case at least
five months to run, and most of them had
more. Put it another way. Suppose the
whole of the policies came into the office on
the day the office was opened, then the
revenue shown above was for 24 months and
the losses were for only 19 months. Accord-
ing to the office reckoning it requires £12,660
of the total of £27,869 to re-insure the unex-
pired risks; and that leaves £15,209 of more
or less genuine reserves, wdiich have been
divided up as follows: Bonus reserve, £5459;
general fund, £9750. That means a profit
of £15,209 on less than two years’ opera-
tions. The office started off with the back-
ing of the State, but no capital. The
Workers’ Compensation Act, 1914, made
industrial insurance obligatory ; and for the
purposes of this law industrial accidents
include industrial diseases. The employer
carries the liability to insure his workpeople.
In case of incapacity the servant is entitled
to half-wages up to 30s. per week, with a
maximum of £5OO. The only people who
are exempt are non-manual workers receiv-
ing more than £250 a year.
Insurance may be effected with approved
private offices; but, insurance being com-
pulsory, the State did the right thing and
provided a means by which employers might
get insurance at cost price. This office is
the result. Gn the experience already
gained, the rates for no less than 134
classes of risk have been reduced; and
the office declares: “The rates now charged
are less than in any other State of the
Commonwealth, except perhaps Queensland.”
In addition, a bonus reserve is being built
up. This, the Insurance Commissioner
hopes, will be distributed to policy-holders
at an early date. The office might find it
profitable to make a feature of these bonuses,
rather than give the policy-holders the
advantage of lower premiums. In life
insurance, at any rate, not one policy-holder
in a dozen troubles about anything but the
size of the bonuses; and not one canvasser
in six talks about the net-cost of insurance,
though, after all, that is what really matters.
Of the outgoings of £17,791 last year
claims ran off with £12,369 and exes, with
£5422. Of the premium income 48.3 p.c.
went to meet claims and 21.1 p.c. to meet
exes.; so. all going well, there is 30 p.c. of
the premiums to cut up between the policy-
holders and the reserve fund. But the
concessions mustn’t be rushed up. As this
paper pointed out a year ago the claims
upon a workers’ insurance fund have a habit
of growing not so much because of malinger-
ing as because when employers have to pay
for insurance they will lay men off for in-
juries which, though small, are nevertheless
some sort of an impediment; and other men
will lay off on their own account.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. :
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904. . £86,104 10 p.c. = £50,718 £35,386 £141,939
1905.. 86,998 10 „„ 50,718 36,280 178,219
1906.. 76,307 10 „ „ 50,718 25,589 203,808
1907.. 83,890 10 „„ 50,718 33,172 236,980
1908.. 82,850 10 „ „ 50,718 32,132 269,112
£202,870 transferred to capital .. 66,242
1909.. 84,112 10 p.c. = 62,129 21,983 88,225
1910.. 85,462 10 ~„ 71,004 14,458 102,683
1911.. 67,221 10 „ „ 71,004 98,900
1912.. 51,852 8 „ „ 56,804 93,948
1913.. 49,874 3 21,301 28,573 122,521
1914.. 63,754 6 „„ 42,602 21,152 143,673
1915.. 67,903 6 „„ 44,227 23,676 167,349
19 vVi! 2f iV >31 - i \°l” Y e?o’ooo f 95,151 262,500
Voted to Provident fund, £50,000 )
Fortune has favored the—well, call it brave
if you like. In 1913 things looked very
different. The co., with a comparatively
small capital, had plunged into big ships for
the inter-State trade, and as at June 30 of
tiiat year owed no less than £524,679, plus
a small amount on account of unused
tickets. Most of this was pretty dear
money; and, the ships being built ahead of
requirements, it was only under good condi-
tions that they could pay this interest and
'earn something substantial for the co. in
addition. When on top of rather poor trade
conditions in 1913-14 there were cumulative
rises in wages, etc., it looked as though the
Adelaide S.S. Co. had made a mistake. Then
came the war. As soon as that catastrophe
happened the Grantala was requisitioned for
service, the Wandilla a month or two later,
and subsequently the Warilda; and the
Yankalilla is under charter to the Common-
wealth Government for wheat carrying.
During the past year the Grantala, having
been released by the Naval Department, was
sold, along with the Wollowra, Innamincka
and a lighter.
The Innamincka was one of the older
vessels of the fleet, and had been probably
written down to very little ; the others were
comparatively new, yet, of course, bought
before the war. What profit was made on
these sales is not disclosed —probably well
over £lOO,OOO. Anyhow, look at this: —
1910. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities (unused tickets
and sundry creditors) . . £79,514 £362,695 £204,355
Assets (other than steam-
ers, freeholds, etc.) . . 118,503 153,341 262,384
Surplus assets . . £38,989 . £58,029
Excess liabilities. . £209,354 —-
That is to say the co. has improved its
position, from this point of view, by £267,383
during the year, notwithstanding that the
book value of steamers, freeholds, etc., has
been reduced by only £94,780. Or put it
this way : The conversion of assets standing
in the books at £94,780 plus the year’s profit
has added £267,383 to the liquid assets,
after paying dividends during the year. The
accounts put it that the net profit for the
year was £71,531. The total shown in the
table is made up this way
Added to insurance account .. .. £50,000
Added to renewals and replacement fund 55,000
Vote to provident fund . . .. . . 50,000
Profit as per profit and loss account .. 71,531
Total . . .. £226,531
No doubt the bulk of the first three items is
war profit; and whether any provision has
been made for war profit tax isn’t clear. It
may be hidden somewhere. If not, it is
quite possible that out of next year’s profit
a large bite will have to be taken to satisfy
the tax in respect of the past year’s abnor-
mal earnings. This matter is so important
that some reference ought to have been made
to it in the report or accounts.
*■*•*•*
The Perdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers and retailers of rubber goods :
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Reduc- not reck-
tion of oned an
Dec., Profits. Dividends'. Deficit. Asset).
1907.. £5,804 10 p.c. = £4,001 £1,803 £12,799
1908.. 7,271. 10 „ „ 4,742 2,529 10,270
£52 added to goodwill account . . 10,322
1909.. 8,050 10 p.c. = 5,801 2,249 8,073
£63 added to goodwill account .. 8,136
1910.. 10,184 10 p.c. = 6,757 3,427 4,709
£l3 added to goodwill account .. 4,722
Premium on shares . . 2,000 2,722
1911.. 14,645 15 p.c. = 12,500 2,145 577
£l2 added to goodwill account .. 589
Reserves.
Premiums on shares . . 6,878 6,289
To Reserves.
1912.. 15,397 12,160 3,237 9,526
1913.. 13,126 8 ~,,10,222 2,904 12,430
1914.. 15,597 10 „ „ 13,000 • 2,597 15,027
1915.. 32,353 12J „ „ 16,250 16,103 31,130
June,
1916.. 16,436 124 „ „ 8,333 8,103 39,233
The reserves, are made up in this way:—
Machinery and plant fund .. £17,351
General reserves .. .. 33,882
Unappropriated profit .. 3,000
£54,233
Less goodwill, patents, etc... 15,000
Net reserves as above . . £39,233
This paper doesn’t know the nature of that
machinery and plant fund. It may be a
set-off against actual wear and tear, in which
case it isn’t a real reserve and the profits
of which it is composed are not real profits.
Or it may be something extra which a very
prudent management has put by to cover
contingencies, and iu that case it may be
regarded as a fairly genuine reserve. As
the fund is built up by appropriations out
of what are declared to be net profits, it
looks like a reserve to cover unforeseen con-
tingencies, all others being provided for
otherwise.
The co. took over the business very oppor-
tunely—for shareholders, at any rate.
Rubber soon afterwards started to boom as
it had never boomed before; and though,
incidentally, a few people were stung when
the market collapsed, there was no shrink-
age in the use of the goods. On the con-
trary, every month the world seems to find
a new use for rubber; and mostly, though
it proceeds at once to look for a less expen-
sive substitute, it wonders how it could ever
have used anything else. Added to that there
has been a growing inclination to believe
that, after all, rubber goods may not be
really improved by being carted 12,000
miles and baked en route on the Equator.
So, between one thing and another, there
has been an extraordinary growth in this
eo.’s trade. Here are seven years’ figures.
1909. 1914. 1915. iMG.
Capital. . . . £60,000 £l3o,o'O'O £130,000 £140,000
Liabilities .. 15,849 36,644 42,71-
Stock .. .. 35,838 83,960 81,016 111,i64
Freehold, plant, „
etc. .. 24,476 76,599 82,757 89,470
Book debts .. 9,625 28,118 48,940
Other assets . . 839 792 879. J6O
Capital has been increased to times its
old size, and there is another issue now in
progress-—at par, too; and that is a nice
little bonus, seeing that the shares carry an
easy 12 § p.c. and are worth at least 30s. in
the market. It is unlikely in the extreme
that the standard of profits reached during
the past couple of years will be maintained
after the war, when Germany and Austria
will be trading again and British, French
and Russian manufacturers will be looking
for foreign markets once more. But
Perdriaus are on a good commercial line;
they handle articles in which there is a big
repair trade also; they have put themselves
on a sopnd financial basis; they have estab-
lished a valuable goodwill; and their profits
during the past prosperous years have much
exceeded the requirements _ of the 124 p.c.
dividend. In all these circumstances the
shareholders seem to be- justified in looking
for at least a good return even in pretty bad
times.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Feb., ’09..16,142 12p.c. = 11,025 2500 2,617 187,76'5
Aug., ’09.-16,663 12 „ ~11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
Feb., ’10..16,346 12 „ ~11,156 2500 2,690 193,593
Aug., ’10..16,575 12 „ ~11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
Feb., ’11..20,133 14 „ ~12,862 4000 3,271 199,783
Aug., ’ll.. 17,965 14 „ ~12,862 5,103 204,886
Feb., ’12..17,941 14 „ ~12,862 5,079 209,965
Aug., ’12..17,221 14 „ ~12,862 4,359 214,324
Feb., ’13..17,987 14 „ ~12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug., ’13..18,071 14 „ ~12,862 5,209 224,658
Premiums on new shares . . 25,000 249,658
Feb., ’l4. .19,931 14p.c,= 14,700 5,231 254,889
Aug., ’l4. ,18,188 14 „ ~ 14,700 3,488 258,377
Feb., ’l5. . 19,743 14 „ ~14,700 5,043 263,420
Aug., ’l5. .17,426 14 „ ~14,700 2,726 266,146
Feb., ’16..20,375 14 „ ~14,700 4200 1,475 267,621
Aug., ’16..17,837 14 „ ~14,700 3,137 270,758
Extra taxes and other special outgoings
have cut the profit below the average of
recent half-years. Compare the six months
with those ended Aug.. 1913: —
Aug., T 3. Aug., ’l6.
Gross profits. . ..£33,416 £35,209
Less Management .. 14,677 15,018
Taxation . . 415 1,355
These figures don’t include dividend tax or
special votes to patriotic funds, etc. It may
be interesting to make some other compari-
sons : —•
1913. 1916.
Deposits and other liabilities £2,025,352 £1,951,231
Liquid assets.. .. .. 779,761 926,099
Advances . . . . . . 1,604,160 1,451,418
Premises . . . . .. 53,952 59,173
The advances that have been got in have
thus been kept liquid, which really means
that they have been put into British and
Australian war loans. Though this may
not be much good from a profit-earning
point of view, it makes the position sounder.
Liquid assets now represent very nearly
half the deposits; and in that and other
respects the co. has a reserve of strength
beyond what is generally regarded as a fair
thing. As for the future —who can tell?
But, whatever happens, Tasmania promises
to be an immediate gainer by the determina-
tion to cut Germany out of the metal-smelt-
ing business; and there is a reasonable pro-
bability that one industry will lead on to
another, until old Hobart will hardly know
itself.
* * * *
The National Bank of Maoriland
Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1903.. £54,533 10 p.c. =£25,000 £29,533 £187,760
1904.. 60,643 12 „„ 30,000 30,643 218,403
1905.. 49,907 12 „„ 30,000 19,907 238,310
1906.. 50,857 12 „ „ 30,000 20,857 259,167
Premiums on new share issue 50,000 309,167
1907.. 64,901 12 p.c. = 38,750 26,151 335,318
1908.. 71,045 12 „ „ 45,000 26,045 361,363
1909.. 75,423 13 „„ 48.750 26,673 388,036
1910.. 72,374 12 „„ 45,000 27,374 415,410
Premiums on new share issue 62,500 477,910
1911.. 79,594 13 p.c. = 57,500 22,094 500,004
1912.. 91,260 13 „ „ 65,000 26,260 526,264
1913.. 95,492 13 „„ 65,000 30,492 556,756
Premiums on new share issue 125,000 681,756
1914.. 120,896 13 p.c. = 94,335 26,561 708,317
1915.. 122,263 13 „„ 97,500 24,763 733,080
1916.. 106,529 13 „ „ 97,500 9,029 742,109
That last line doesn’t look quite as good as
it ought to. perhaps; so we’ll nut things
another way
1915. 1916.
Earnings .. .. ..£275,239 £296,555
Less exes. .. .. .. 125,476 153,026
£149,763 £143,529
Less Bonuses .. £7,500 £12,000
Premises account 20,000 - —-
Reserve for de-
preciation of
securities . . 25,000
27,500 37,000
Net profit .. ..£122,263 £106,529
The gross earnings have moved up steadily
in spite of the mad Kaiser —from £258.024
in the year preceding the war to £290,555.
But. chiefly through increased taxation,
exes, have rushed ahead too. This co. is
being very unfairly hit by the double income
tax—3s. Sd. in the £ in Maoriland and ss.
in the £ in London : together Bs. Bd. in the
£ of the income, which ought to be nearly
enough to satisfy even those who are yelling
for conscription of wealth.
The rather mixed figures which follow
the first table show that £25,000 was written
off last year’s profits to provide for depre-
ciation of investments. The bank has
£481,575 in “Home, Colonial and Foreign
securities” and £079,609 in British Govern-
ment War Loans and Treasury bills. These
have been written down ; and in most cases
it seems to be simply another method by
which the management may stuff a bit up
its sleeve. It certainly has done a lot in
that way hitherto. Premises, for instance,
had been written down to next to nothing
until some recent purchases were made.
This asset must be worth a couple of hun-
dred thousand more than it stands at in the
books. But even without these internal
reserves the position looks wonderfully
sound. Take these figures first: —
Liabilities.
1906. 1915. 1916.
Notes .. .. £268,872 £465,515 £535,665
Bills, etc. . . 489,908 699,093 841,555
Deposits . . 3,440,456 4,740,397 5,298,296
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 2,171,985 3,262,497 3,553,791
Advances .. 2,509,612 4,021,051 4,499,662
Premises . . 72,099 161,037 170,672
So the bank owes £6,675,516, and its liquid
assets (including public securities) total
£3,553,791. There is thus £3,121,725 of
debt not represented by liquid assets, and
to meet it there is £4,499,662 of securities
and premises, property, etc., written down
to £170,672. Depositors in a bank or any
other concern which lends on the security of
Maoriland land values ought to require a
wide margin, because those land values
have been most violently inflated. They
have here all the margin that can reason-
ably be asked for.
As for the shareholders, this paper isn’t
xo confident about their future. Maoriland
is booming on war profits. Looking over
the Dominion’s trade figures the chairman
of this bank told shareholders the other day
that “the export of wool shows a consider-
able decrease in weight—nearly 25 p.c.—
but there is an increase of 12 p.c. in value.”
The total trade has run up to £49 per head
of the population per annum—larger figures
than perhaps any other country in the world
ever reached. Of course the extent of the
trade is partly due to the awful tendency
of the people to let somebody else make its
hats and its pipes and its beds. But it is
largely due to the abnormal prices of wool,
meat and dairy produce; and when they
crash, as crash they will after the war,
Maoriland’s prosperity is going to slump.
And that is when the war bill will have to
be paid. “It is evident,” the chairman told
his shareholders, “that you must in the near
future contemplate either the payment of
your dividends subject to income tax” —
which means a difference of 2 or 3 p.c.—
“or you must accept a lower dividend, or
possibly both.”
The Wellington Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (M.L.) :
Written To Re- Re-
Jul.v, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1903.. £9,065 Bp.c.= £5,604 £2500 £961’£24,811
1904.. 9,130 8 „ ~ 6,273 1000 1,857 26,668
1905.. 3,950 6 „ „ 4,800 2000 23,818
1906.. 5,200 5 „ „ 4,000 1000 200 24,018
1907.. 6,708 6 „„ 4,858 1500 350 24,368
1908.. 11,190 6 „ ~ 5,353 2000 3,837 28,205
1909.. 6,277 6 „,, 6,114 3000 25.368
1910.. 13,653 7 „„ 7,957 5500 196 25,564
1911.. 11,685 7 „ „ 8.074 3500 111 25,675
1912.. 14,735 7 „ „ 8,074 5000 1,661 27,336
1913.. 17,150 8 „ „ 9,228 5000 2,922 30,258
1914.. 15,545 8 .. ~ 9,228 5000 1,317 31,575
1915.. 31,756 13 „ ~ 14,995 5000 11,761 43,336
1916.. 27,298 13 ~ .. 14,995 5000 7,303 50,639
Or, if you like, you can make the profit for
the previous year £28.585 and for the past
year £30,469 —it depends upon the year in
which you charge a bonus paid to employees.
This bonus was declared payable out of
the 1915 profits, but it was not actually
paid until the year just past. There was
no similar bonus for this last year. Pro-
bably the directors weren’t feeling quite so
affable, on account of a strike at the mill,
which hung operations up for a month.
Of course it's the war that has been
mainly responsible for the extraordinary
vigor of the profits:—
Orders for military uses have engaged the co.’s
mills and clothing factories to a larger extent than
in the preceding year; so much so, in fact, as prac-
tically to prevent any manufacture for the domestic
trade. In consequence the directors had to meet
demands, where possible, by increased importation—
a branch of the business showing much development
during the 12 months, and now forming an important
department of the co.’s trade.
The co. has thus benefited both ways; it has
had its mills working full speed (except
for the strike) for new customers, and it
has more or less held the old customers by
going temporarily into the import trade.
So, whereas the gross profit from' manufac-


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MARE HIS WILL.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
35-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£OO for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tl “ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Just as there are mines that are mines and mines
that are “duffers” so does one of the principal of
mine equipments, i.e., belting, vary greatly accord-
ing to the maker. As the Goodyear Tyre and Rubber
Co. make, among many other things, belting that
satisfies the most exacting requirements of mining
operations from Alaska to the Panama Canal, and
even further south, they claim that all Australian
requirements are provided for in their extensive
range of Conveyor, Driving and Elevator belting.
Mine managers are invited to apply to the various
State depots, or direct to 231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for information, samples and quotations.— Advt.
The Australian General Electric Company, Went-
worth Avenue, Sydney, Corner Queen and Little
Collins Streets, Melbourne, will be pleased to submit
particulars and quotations on High-grade Switch-
board Circuit Breakers of large capacity for severe
service, used extensively in Mine Installations.— Advt.
* * ! ■* *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
# * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“The Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
* * * *
There is no Pressure Pipe so efficient and economical
as Pioneer Wood Pipe. It saves money, in first cost, in
freight and in labor for laying, as no caulking of the
joints is required. Its durability is assured. It is free
from corrosion and incrustation. Its discharging-
capacity remains the same, after years of service, as
when first installed. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (head
office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all
State Governments. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.:
Footscrav, Vic. ; Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles; furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * »
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
Earth-handling and Road-building Machinery,
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing : installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane: and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us foJ Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 0
£783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE,
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: 13. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
taring and trading in tlie 12 months to the
end of July, 1914, was £29,281, while man-
agement and overhead charges (including
taxes) were £13,857, in the past year the
revenue was £52,199 and the charges (still
including taxation) £21,243. Apparently
some provision has been made for increased
taxation. Whether it is sufficient only time
can tell.
Naturally the co.’s finances look very dif-
ferent now to what they did at the start of
the war:—
1914. 1916.
Mock (including raw material).. £107,784 £91,599
Book debts and sundries .. . . 36,185 50,233
Total assets apart from properties £143,969 £141,832
ness liabilities .. .. .. 72,166 41,244
Surplus assets £71,803 £100,588
Meantime the dividends have been paid and
additions have been made to the mills, etc.,
though certainly not sufficient to set-off the
depreciation, which has been larger than
usual owing to the manufacture of extra-
heavy wear. What will happen after the
war nobody knows; but at any rate the co.
is likely to benefit from the gro\Vth of the
belief that, after all, there are a few things
we can do as well as people somewhere
else. And when the Billjim soldier com-
pares his khaki with Thomas Atkins’s he is
quite satisfied that the making of clothes is
one of those things.
* * * *
According to the British Australasian,
Yorkshire mills have taken up the marine
fibre of which South Aus. has an un-
limited supply in Spencer’s Gulf. The Hun
used to be the only person who knew how
to mix it with wool, but now Bradford can
make clothes out of a half-and-half blend.
A co. was formed in Sydney and one or two
elsewhere to dredge for the stuff; but up to
now they have all had a shocking time.
One direct result of the recent ill-timed
miners’ strike at Kalgoorlie was the almost
total shut-down of Oroya Links. Previous
to the war the property was worked at a
profit, but since costs ran up, owing to the
war, operations have been carried on at a
loss. When the strike caused a stoppage,
directors determined not to restart, for the
time being, at least. There are others in
much the same position; and their recent
history ought to interest Treasurer Higgs
when he is considering his War-time Profits
measure and its relation to gold-mines.
* * * *
__ Most of the August returns from the
Kalgoorlie mines show a falling off as a
result of the alien labor dispute. South
Ivalgurli was probably affected most by the
stoppage, and though costs were kept down
expenses exceeded revenue by nearly £lOOO.
Ivalgurli, which was about the only big mine
undisturbed, earned its usual profit. A
report just sent to London by the general
manager extends the life of the mine another
year or so.
* * * *
Associated Gold Mines (W.A.) share-
holders met in London last month and were
given a little more information about the
co.’s ventures. At Kalgoorlie the ore treated
last year was 2s. per ton better than for the
previous 12 months, but dear supplies, etc.,
increased costs by Is. The ore now being
treated is of still better grade; though the
mine’s resources may give out at any time.
The chairman stated that the option on the
now idle Iveeley mine, in Canada, had been
extended un*il six months after the war,
and as silver was then expected to rise the
Board reckoned it had made a good deal.
Ore containing 300,0000 z. of metal was
declared to be in sight, and about one-third
o!: this quantity was said to be contained
in bagged stuff worth IOOOoz. per ton.
Developments in the North Thompson gold
mine at Porcupine (Canada) being still
good, a co. to take over the show was regis-
tered in Ontario, and production is expected
to start in 1917. Outlay on this venture
totals £41,500, of which £25,000 is to be
recouped by a further allotment of shares.
On March 31 Associated’s net cash assets
stood at £32,000, and on paper the co.’s
specs look as if they will require a lot of
financing.
Linden, on the East Mt. Margaret field
(W.A.), now has four Melbourne syndicates
sampling its wares. One is on the Devon,
where a level is being driven at 100 ft.;
another has some oO tons of “good grade”
ore dumped on the surface, and has until
November to decide whether it will complete
the deal. Options are also held on Lowe’s
claim and the Grant Junction.
The miracle of raising the dead is about
to be attempted by new Westralian Minister
for Mines Robinson. The achievements of
old-time gold producers now idle are to be
published in the local newspapers and circu-
larised in the Eastern States. By this
puffing he expects new capital to rush to
the assistance of the defunct. But what is
needed most is new mines, and those on the
look out for them are meeting with very
little success.
Southern Cross (W.A.) is again stagnat-
ing. Fraser’s Group is waterlogged, and
most of the surrounding leases are having
a dismal time. Bullant Mclntyre and others
who can’t get out still cling to their belief
that enormous wealth lies underfoot, and
contend that if capital could be induced to
forget past failures, Southern Cross could
again be made to boom.
A little gold is being got at Westralia’s
latest find near Mt. Monger. Most of the
returns have so far come from small leaders,
but big lode formations are now being tried,
and one or two are said to give fair pro-
spects.
* * * *
For the first time since he took up the
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), Bill Hender-
son declines to give an estimate of ore
reserves. Six months ago the total was
10,000 tons; yet he has since scraped out
16,000 tons and earned a working profit of
nearly £BOOO. The additional 6000 tons
must have been odds and ends from the
Hardy Norseman lease, together with the
rock broken out of the Nos. 5 and 6 levels
north and the No. 8 level south in Mararoa
itself. The co. had on June 30 over £lO,OOO
in hard cash, after providing for all lia-
bilities. The profits from subsequent crush-
ings have more than paid the 6d. div. in
August, and there must be now about
£12,000 in the till. This would give 2s. 6d.
cash, while another shilling is available
from the ore unstoped. A big reef shows
at No. 8 south, and any change there would
set the market agog. But Henderson can’t
build on this chance, for all Norseman mines
are poor at 1000 ft.
* * * *
From Cloncurry:—
Though not much has appeared in the press about
it for the last two years or so, the Mount Elliott
people have been steadily preparing’ for a big for-
ward movement by purchase of controlling interests in
other groups of mines and spending large sums of
money in development work; and the concern gives
every promise of soon standing once more in the
front rank of copper producers in Australia. The
Elliott group now embraces the co.’s own mines,
the Queensland Exploration mines, the Mount Oxide
mines, and the Queensland Copper Freeholds mines.
When the British Treasury regulations permit, the
approximate position will be a co. of 370,000 shares
of £5 each, of which 90,000 will be held in
reserve. Meantime the shares in the component
groups as represented by their equivalents in Mount
Elliott, Ltd., rank alike for dividends.
The original Mount Elliott is now bare of high-
grade ore in the upper levels; but below the 500 ft.
level a winze showed patches of high-grade ore and
above this level there is over 1,000,000 tons of 3 p.c.
ore. The Consols mine (at Hampden) at the
480 ft. level shows a body about 18ft. wide with a
value of 5 to 10 p.c. copper and some hundreds of
thousands of.tons of low-grade ore above this level.
At the Australia mine (Cloncurry) the 300 ft. level
shows a width of from 20ft. to 90ft., which will
average about 3 p.c. copper. This ore is high in
lime and magnesia, and, though it would be of no
value by itself, still in conjunction with ores from
the other mines it will pay to work even under
present conditions.
At the Dobbin the lode in the 200 ft. level is
about 40ft. wide, of which 10ft. goes from 8 to 12
p.c. copper, and the crosscut at the 350 ft. level will
cut the lode within the next 20ft. The Lady mines
(Ballara) show a long’ line of lode averaging from 5
to 8 p.c. of copper over a good width. Block 14 (Clon-
curry) has a very wide lode formation, and the cross-
cut at the 200 ft. level will intersect the lode in
the course of a few weeks. The Argylla shows a
lode channel over 100 ft. wide, carrying very good
ore. The Solomon is a larg’e body of lime averaging
4 p.c. copper. The Mount Oxide shows a fair ton-
nage averaging 20 p.c. copper and a great tonnage
of low-grade ore. The Chinaman mine has a wide
body of quartz low in copper but with patches of
high-grade ore. The quartz will be utilised in the
converting of the matte to blister, and this makes
it of great value. About a dozen other mines belong-
ing to the different groups are in course of develop-
ment.
llie co. realises that it must be in a position to
obtain a tonnage of ore and be able to draw from
various sources to blend for smelting. Also, in
order to warrant the erection later on of an up-to-
date plant to handle the low-grade ores, a vast ton-
nage must be assured. Works are being constructed
at Bowen for the refining of the blister, and the
coalfields there are going to make it possible to
profitably treat the huge masses of low-grade copper
ore in Cloncurry, thus providing employment for a
large population. The management of the co.’s
affairs, it is generally admitted, is in very com-
petent hands, and with the new smelters going in
January, shareholders should once more g-et a fair
return for their money, with the prospect of a steady
increase as the development of the different proper-
ties progresses and it is successfully demonstrated
that the low-grade ores' can be profitably treated. In
its determination to show that this can be done, the
co. deserves well of Australia.
* *
Brilliant Block, Charters Towers, is
attempting reconstruction to provide fresh
capital. It is proposed to have a nominal
capital of £70,000 in shares of 10s. each;
40,000 paid shares to be issued in payment
for the property, and 100,000 contribs. to
carry a. liability of 2s. 6d. per share. There
is a mill and cyanide plant, but not much
payable ore available, and it is doubtful
whether £12,500 will go far enough.
Fred H. Bathurst writes: —
Not to me, but to dead geologist Stirling, solicitor
Croker, the Baillieus, Stamp, Geo. Nicholson, and
last but not least G. D. Meudell, give credit for
forcing forward the possibilities of our Victorian
brown coal. The big step was taken when the
Baillieus got the best European talent to advise as
to the extent of the deposits and the scientific way
to handle them. So long as the State retained the
right to purchase, it was a blunder not to have encour-
aged the firm to work the measures. All I have
sought to do on the New Industries Committee is to
direct attention to the dormant resources of the
formations, and to put before the members the in-
formation that the north-west coast of Canada is
setting out to create wealth from vastly inferior
deposits of brown coal.
Cassilis, Gippsland (Vic.), has to bow to
the inevitable after struggling along without
a div. since 1907. The lack of cash to pro-
vide cheap power first put the brake hard on.
And when, the plant was secured a record
drought kept the mountain streams dry, and
by the time the trickles had started again
the fountain of calls was parched. Cas-
silis ore was tough stuff to treat, so though
110,000 tons were crushed for 93,0000 z. gold,
the co. paid only £16,000 in divs. The machin-
ery man will have a picnic over the sale
unless someone has the grit to take the show
over on liquidation terms and give it a run
on bedrock lines. There are reefs parallel
to the Cassilis, and the rich little Ceresa
vein should certainly be tested before the
final whistle blows.
Ajax North, Daylesford (Vic.), closed its
books in September with no liabilities and
assets worth £18,746, including uncalled capi-
tal, £15,750, and plant, £2OOO. Uncalled
capital in a no-liability co. is a very doubtful
prop on which to rest, and plant is worth
only just what the machinery man will bid.
More tangible are ore reserves, but neither
George Buchanan nor L. Hansen, who runs
the mine, go into that subject. Nothing
worth much has shown up above 500 ft.. and
of late Hansen has been hustling out quartz
mostly from stopes in the No. 8 level work-
ings. His big effort has been to drop his
shaft from 800 to 1000 feet, and now he is
there he will start out to test the different
reefs west. Besides, there is a good chance
of scoring in the upper levels in the western
country. In No. 5 level to the north-west
he has a promising formation on the McMil-
lan line. The co. is spending at the rate of
7s. 6d. per ton on development, against other
costs of 14s. per ton, which shows that Han-
sen is being stinted on progressive work.
The co. so far has paid 9s. per share in
divs. on a trifling capital, and still has a big
claim to develop.
According to Edna May Central half-yearly
report just out N. E. Giblin regards “gen-
eral prospects as favorable,” and also
“further possibilities of the mine (on Sept.
11) impress him considerably.” Giblin is
check-sampling everything anil expects to be
able to carry out vigorous development whilst
maintaining output and values;- To June 30
48,327 tons have given £53,421. Costs, in-
cluding depreciation, were 20s. 2d. last half,
compared with 19s. 7d. the previous term.
It is clear that if Giblin can’t lift the values
well above the mine average since crushing
was started, Edna Central won’t travel far
on the road to tall profit-making. The need
for richer stone comes with Giblin’s adop-
tion of the Board’s policy of shaft sinking
and big crosscutting, which rapidly absorbs
funds. Everything considered, it would
have been better to have passed the last
div. till piblin’s estimate of the worth of the
ore in sight and its tonnage had been ascer-
tained. The New reef bumped up the average
during the six months from 20s. to 30s. on
a yield of 17,115 tons, compared with 13,392
tons for the previous half-year. But the
nigger on the fence is the drop in the grade
of the last three crushings from this
reef. Ex-manager Dick Williams has his
final say in the report, and to his credit he
is as cheery about the Central becoming one
of the biggest mines at Westonia as though
lie had not been unpleasantly jolted out of
his job.
* * * *
The first clean-up of the Krushka tin
?t Derby (Tas.) probably made the
Briseis Co. wish it had exercised its option
oyer the ground. The wash-up gave 41b. of
tin to the cubic yard, or a ton altogether.
* * * *
Three zinc processes are hatching in Tas-
mania. The Amalgamated Zinc (De
Bavay’s) expects to use the Anaconda pro-
cess at works which will shortly be estab-
lished near Hobart; J. 11. Gillies will use
his own process at North-West Bay; and a
local syndicate has just completed an experi-
mental plant in Hobart. The two former
are electrolytic, and as Gillies has made all
his experiments on local ores he should have
a pull oyer the Anaconda process. The
third, which has been kept quiet, is said to
be a chemical process.
* * » »
The Tasmania,n Smelting Co.’s works at
Zeehan (Tas.) whU probably be sold shortly
at the request of the Government, and Mt.
Lyell is likely to purchase. In 1912 the
Government lent the co. £20,000 on condi-
tion that the latter raised £22,000. The
Deutsche Bank, London branch, advanced
this sum. Debentures, ranking equally, were
issued to both parties and constituted a first
mortgage over the assets of the co. As
assets are not clearly defined, it is doubtful
whether the slag dump is included. These
contain from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. of zinc, and
will be valuable when a zinc process is estab-
lished. As the Hun will need the metal
after the war, the German Bank will pro-
bably put up a hard fight to get them.
* * * ,*
“Paddymelon” : Tllere is talk in Brisbane of
a line from the Clermont coalfield to Charters
Towers to provide cheap fuel for that very
sick goldfield. Over 20 years ago I suggested
to Bob Pliilp that the Government should
generate electric power on the Bowen coal-
field and transmit current to liavenswood, the
Towers, Bowen, Townsville and several
other fields thereabouts. Of course, Bobby
was agin it; it smelt too Socialistic. What
about the present Government tackling the
scheme? Cheap power with one up-to-date
mill would give the Towers a new lease of
life.


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
CMflMffi
HI PLUS ULTRA
7 r
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
GAS IN THE STOMACH IS
DANGEROUS.
PHYSICIANS RECOMMEND THE USE
OF MAGNESIA.
Sufferers from ' indigestion or dyspepsia
should remember that the presence of gas or
wind in the stomach invariably indicates that
the stomach is troubled by excessive acidity.
This acid causes the food to ferment and
the fermenting food in turn gives rise to
noxious gases which distend the stomach,
hamper the normal functions of vital internal
organs, cause acute headaches, inteijfere with
the action of the heart, and charge the blood
stream with deadly poisons, which in time
must ruin the health. Physicians say that
to quickly dispel a dangerous accumulation
of. wind in the stomach and to stop the food
fermentation which creates the gas, the acid
in the stomach must be neutralised, and that
for this purpose there is nothing quite so good
as half a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia
taken in a little water immediately after
meals. This instantly neutralises the acid,
thus stopping fermentation and the forma-
tion of gas, and enables the inflamed, dis-
tended stomach to proceed with its work
under natural conditions. Bisurated magnesia
is obtainable in powder or tablet form from
any chemist; but as there are many different
forms of magnesia it is important that the
"bisurated which the physicians prescribe
should be distinctly asked for. — Apvt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <a CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1006.
FESQ (Eli CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 25, 1916.
My Dear Arini. —
Spring fashions are showing themselves,
if somewhat abashed by the tremendous times.
In the greatest crisis of the Big Gun, we
get delicate garlands of flowers on the sum-
mer silks. Hats reply in similar floral strain.
The pancake millinery, with posies stamped
in full bloom across crown and brim, are
supposed to do away with trimming. A
rosette or a twist of silk, perhaps. But
there’s no cheeseparing in the scheme. The
fine tagel straws, which have a bouquet of
garden flowers in their design, are lovely
fancies. Prices correspond.
Little Florence Scapini was too ill to play
at the French League concert, so Cyril
Monk scraped the ice off with a serious com-
position for the fiddle. Pauline Bindley’s
soprano was pleasing in everything but its
incursions into French. Ballads in English
will for some time to come be Pauline’s
best advertising line. Truman added the
organ’s blast to Dufault’s fiery “Marseil-
laise.” But the remote organ pealed coldly
to time, while Paul marched on as the
spirit moved him. “Eet is ’orrible!” said
an adjacent Frenchman, and it was. The
foreign Consuls, led by Cha.vet, were in
prominence, and Premier Holman —president
of the French League—had his feet on the
blue Axminster. French Leaguers, with
their faces puckered up in smiles (think
what the cheque will buy for little orphan
Jeanette!), sat up very straight on front
chairs. Manager Freddie Shipman and his
small commanding-officer joyously led the
applause.
A fete to help St. Martha’s Home at
Leichhardt was opened by Mrs. Holman on
Saturday. Martha is troubled about many
things, but chiefly orphan girls. So the
gentle grey-hooded nuns gather them in and
teach them the way of a broom or the tricks
of a needle. Limerick lace, fine as a mantle
of dew, falls from the older girls’ expert
fingers. But that’s an extra. Stitchery of
a more mundane kind, that helps them later
to good billets, is Martha’s leading line. In
a big marquee tent the wares are still selling
fast, and the cash goes towards the feeding
of the orphan.
St. Martha’s Home, by the way—there
are 78 girls in residence, the baby being
a motherless mite of four —is part of the
early history of Sydney. In the long ago a
good citizen named Norton built a mansion
in the Early Colonial style. That is to
say, he modelled it on those great airy houses
with wide verandahs which English cotton-
planters once built in old Kentucky. You
could drive a four-in-hand into the hall and
leave room for a grocer’s cart to pass. The
rooms upstairs make ideal dormitories. The
long-dead Norton’s estate included an
immense orchard, where now there are rows
of dusty little terraces; and he used to have
fruit and vegetables gathered every day and
placed where his poor neighbors might help
themselves. Through gates that were never
locked visitors could walk into the beauti-
ful grounds. Miles of brick and mortar now
replace the shade trees, and the house has
been for 30 years in the hands of charity
organisations. It’s an object-lesson to the
modern architect who builds a collection of
gables and cells and calls it a home.
Governor Strickland has gone over the
Murray to eat a chop with brother Stanley.
Lady Edeline takes a two-days’ trip to the
South Coast, and the races start on Sep-
tember 30. Some people are buying glad
rags, and others ? Well, read the
casualty-lists.
General Haig has given his first official
praise to Australia’s army, and it is the
Division that gets it—for great gallantry
and other good qualities. The remark-
able thing about the Division is
that it has hardly a single Comforts Fund
or committee to its name. The artillery
brigades, for instance, were formed in
Egypt, of Australians raked out of other
brigades, strengthened by reinforcements that
weren’t wanted by other arms. So the boys
who are the first to catch Haig’s eye, and
also to get cheers from General Blumer, have
no Susies knitting socks and making other
comforts for them in the Australia that
owes them three cheers, too. It only illus-
trates again how badly this battalion and
brigade comforts work wants reorganising.
Brigadier-Gen. Jack Antill, of the Light
Horse, has his heart’s desire. After months
of Gallipoli, followed by more than enough of
Egypt, with the Romani fight to liven things
up, the man from Picton—long, lean and
tough as six feet of iron nails —is sampling
the slop of France.
Dr. Moran, the man with a pre-war repu-
tation in the muddied football field, addressed
the Red Cross executive and sundries the
other afternoon. He was late, so a feminine
orator gave some of her notions while a lady
scout rushed into the highways to find the
lecturer and lead him in, the club rooms
being out of the way and easily overlooked.
She landed her quarry safely; and then the
man from Balmain and Mesopotamia told the
sorry tale of the expedition. He didn’t say
so, but one or two bigwigs have been sent
into obscurity over the hideous bungle—a
merely minor satisfaction. Surgeon Moran
shows the effects of his share of short rations
in fever-haunted swamps. The miracle is
that anyone lives to tell the tale.
To help the Italian Red Cross rally the
Art Society lent its own loan premises the
other night. These are the long galleries
with crushed-mulberry drapery under the
Education Palace’s skylight. So signors
and signoras came along, the latter with a
bit of native style in the form of fancy
scarves over ropes of coal-black hair. Cap-
pelli sang his sweetest to thunders of
“Brava!” Of course his photo, was auc-
tioned. The sport who ran the price up to
£7 said “I’ll make it £lO if the signor will
give us another song!” Maurico immedi-
ately obliged. This done, his face was
handed back to him; whereon he gallantly
presented it to the star amateur of the even-
ing—Miss Goldrick, a youthful pupil of Di
Giorgia, whose voice he admired in Italian
superlatives.
A few years ago a charming ’Murkan
lady, Mrs. John McVey, spent some months
at the Australia and made a host of
friends in Sydney. An only daughter hav-
ing just married, the young-looking mother
(a widow, by the way) set out on a world
tour. In this town Mrs. McVey, formerly
Miss Hopkins, of Ohio, discovered a rela-
tive in “Hop,” who now gets news that
his handsome relative died in Connecticut the
other day, after a short illness.
Do you remember the old Nelson, her
Majesty’s corvette, or something equally
harmless? There’s a newly-decorated
admiral, who used to be a loo’tenant on
that ark. Australian matrons will recall
the dashing young sailor of the early ’9o’s.
Now he is Rear-Admiral Christian and was
lately handed a C.B.
The Cullen lady is presiding genius at a
Battalion Comforts gathering in the Royal
Society’s room on September 28. Leslie Hol-
land and the ever-willing basso Charlie
Smythe head the list of entertainers.
This photo shows
you a strenuous
woman with the
versatile gifts of
the true daughter
of Australia. Mrs.
Kettlewell, known
to South Aus-
tralians as Agnes
L. Storrie, writes
flowing verse, is a
journalist w i t h a
literary style, and
makes little gar-
ments for destitute
Belgian babes as
deftly as she turns
a sonnet or tosses
a pancake. With
the invaluable
assistance of J. H.
Maiden, the director of Sydney Botanic
Gardens, she founded the N. S. Wales
Wattle League in 1909. Twenty years ago
there was a small Adelaide coterie which
tried to push the yellow fluff as Australia’s
national emblem. But it had fainted away
long before the now virile N.S.W. League
was born.
As you pass our new Commonwealth
Bank look up. You will see the Australian
coat of arms, with the wattle in one corner.
This, our first —or almost the first—national
tribute to any native bloom, lifts the golden
tassels to the place occupied in Ireland by
the shamrock. The tribute is entirely due to
the representations made by the N.S.W.
Wattle League to the Commonwealth
authorities.
Speaking in London at the formation of a
Wattle branch there, in 1913, Airs. Kettlewell
made an impassioned appeal to Australians
in England to fan the breath of patriotic
love for their native land by an annual fes-
tival of the gorgeous bloom. With other
enthusiasts she got permission from the
British Admiralty to trim the then baby,
H.M.A.S. Australia, with garlands of it for
the King’s first visit to the ship.
Battalion committee dames are wrinkling
their foreheads for new ideas —not chest-
nuts wrapped in bonbon papers. Here’s
the latest scheme. At the Tom Raines’
garden fete in October a well-known Syd-
ney man has volunteered to do some kite-
flying. No, not Holman. For the present
his name is Mystery. He is experimenting
in some secret fastness, with miles of string,
cardboard and gum. Messages to Mars will
draw the cash.
Six or seven years
ago The Bulletin
found out that a
girl with a voice
came from Alice
Springs, in the
heart of Australia •
and it gave her a
hand up the ladder
mostly because it
wanted people to
see that the heart
of Australia wasn't
all dry sand. Lu-
cille Benstead she
was, and after her
Sydney Town Hall
concert she went on
to London. Every
report since she got
there has been en-
couragmg, ana now she sends her love to
Australia and her photo, along with the
cheerful remark that she’s “full of engage-
ments till 1920.”
Aide Boulton, the New Boy, is seeing the
inside of more factories and freezing machines
than are known to most lads of 19. In a
recent sub-regal tour there was one bright
spot. That was the pilgrimage to the pic-
turesque mill where they make paper-board,
etc., embosomed in a leafy arm of Upper Lane
Cove River. No, his Ex. didn’t bring away
a sample of the dividends. They haven’t
made any yet.
A Melbourne girl, Grade Mates, is to be
married to big Bob Maddrell, of the Braid-
wood family, on October 11. It’s to happen
in Sydney.
About a few busy Australians from one
of them: —
I’ve just got back from a fortnight in Cornwall,
which is the nearest thing to Sydney I have found
since I left home. Splendid surf-bathing, white beaches
and rugged rocks, riddled with smugglers’ caves,
running, they say, three or four miles inland. But
I didn’t strike any, though I dug my toe into the
sand as hard as I could.
I was staying with some Sydney people—Violet
Elwell (once ’cellist in the Philharmonic orchestra),
whose husband, A. Elwell Sutton, R.N., has just
written a book on “Humanity v. Unhumanity,” a
philosophical treatise on the German Idea.
We were entertained the other evening at a pri-
vate reading of Miles Franklin’s play. I hope it is
staged over here; the Australian boys would come
battalions strong, and my corps would turn up
cn masse, as there’s a delightful W.V.A. in it.
My corps is commonly known as “Kitchener’s
Lizzies,” as we do all the dirty w r ork at hospitals,
canteens, etc. We entirely staff Peel House, the
accommodation-place for Overseas Forces —400
Eunice Mort (now Graham) makes beds there; also
Alice Treekman, whose brother has just been killed,
first day of the Big Push. Lydia Iloare is in the
corps, also Alice May Cadogan, who shone for a
while in the musical firmament. All Sydney girls
these. And I wish we had a few more of them.
Mrs. McLeod, a daughter of old-time
Brofessor Tate, of Adelaide, is over here on
a visit. She is camping with brother
Ralph, of the Botanic Gardens. Father
was Ralph, too; and though he specialised
in rocks he also knew a tree when he saw
it, and did a lot to make orange-growing
in S. Aus. the important business it has
now become.
The Queen Victoria Club ladies looked as
if someone had slapped their faces the other
afternoon. All that had really happened was
that Mrs. Laura Luffman had read “Dam-
aged Goods” in her best style. One hushed
voice made a final suggestion that it would
be better if the Thing were read to men
only. Heaven knows what kind of audience
will enjoy it as a play !
Still another new soprano who goes to
London. She’s a sweet-voiced young night-
ingale, Rose Alba, who holds one of the chief
scholarships in Sydney Conservatorium. To
help her there’s to be a concert in the Con-
servatorium on October 14. John Brown-
low is slogging at the details.
Hasn’t the war sharpened up feminine
wits? At a recent meeting at Burwood the
local soldiers’ Christmas fund committee
passed a vote of thanks, or something simi-
lar, for a kind donation of shaving paper!
The pretty brown-eyed Ailsa Craig, who
was so helpful as hon. sec. to the A.S.C.
committee, goes to England with her parents
in October. There’s a son of the household
at the Front, and the family hanker to send
him a coo-ee across the Channel.
The “A.8.C.” Bank fed its ever-so-polite
secretary, William Reid, at the Carlton last
week (of course it wasn’t eating all the
week) after 50 years’ service. And it wasn’t
always the Australian Bank of Commerce,
either.' When Mr. Reid first smudged its
ink on his shirt-cuff it was the A.J.S. Bank
and it kept the overdrafts in a house in
George-street wherein big Geoi’ge Dibbs had
just previously hung up his hat and waited
for Miss Robey to say “Yes.” But that
wasn’t its earliest office either. It was born,
the Oldest Inhabitant tells me, where par-
son Richard Johnson had Sydney’s first
orchard. Blooms still grow there; but they
are grog-blooms now. The Empire Hotel
is on part of it.
The Art Society, which puts up its Exhi-
bition shutters on Saturday, records an
advance on last year’s sales. In the black-
and-white section Eirene Mort sold an inter-
esting sketch of old Government House,
Windsor. There is a big tree dying on the
ground in front, and most of the roof is like
a sieve.
Madge Fabian blows like dainty thistle-
down through the Criterion play, “Romance.”
As the lively Italian star Cavallini, her
lovely inky curls, shining like black satin,
are the last word in the wigmakef’s art.
But no tradesman made the exquisite little
willow-wand figure that floats across the
mid-Victorian drawing-room. Madge, though
attached to fluffy white, gets every ounce of
effect out of the old-fashioned black velvet
gown with a tight bodice. But then she
shakes those raven curls over her pearl-
white face and has a way wid her!
Another happy return to life from the
list of the killed. Maoriland airman James
P. Dennistoun, lately reported dead, is now
known to be a prisoner. He was brought
down by a Fokker, had to undergo a very
severe operation, was “treated very kindly
and skilfully” by the Germans, and at latest
was racing along the road to Recovery.
A Melbourne man, Harold Hunt, met
Eileen Collins —lately of the Julius Knight
co. —at St. Mary’s altar the other afternoon,
and took her away to look after his buttons.
Eileen comes from Gisborne, in Maoriland.
The British Red Cross is said to be on
the track of more sturdy Australian
V.A.D.’s; but there are no details as yet.
In the Osterley contingent went a buxom
daughter of Bruce Smith. She’s a capable
lass, and adds two years’ training in Prince
Alfred Hospital to her domestic virtues.
Father came down from Bowral to see his
girl run up the gangway.
Lola Playfair, a daughter of the late Tom.
is engaged to Lieut. Joseph Vachon, of the
U.S. army. Of course there is a U.S. army,
though it may be too proud to fight. Grand-
father Playfair was a one-time Mayor of
Sydney.
Mrs. J. Swan, who died the other day after
about a year’s married life, used to be
Violet Wickham. Grandfather was the naval
Wickham, a one-time Lieut.-Governor of
Queensland, whose portrait hangs in the
Sydney Pioneers’ Club.
Ambrose Gaffney is in Sydney from Mel-
bourne for the joyous purpose of marrying
Miss Winifred Cotter, of Auckland, M.L.
The damsel is staying at the Australia, and
the wedding occurs quietly at once.
Most Sydney folk remember the beautiful
Mrs. Willie Mitchell. Her bellehood raged
for some years up to the end of the nine-
teenth century. (After all, this twentieth
century is only 16 years old.) She, by
widowhoods, acquired three husbands and
lives happily in India. But what I meant
to tell you was of the (1) tragedy and (z)
good fortune of her daughter, Isabel Mitchell,
who went to London some months ago to be
married to a military somebody. Death in
battle anticipated the bride-elect. But the
income from £40,000 had been secured to the
girl by her fiance’s will. All the same, it
is a very broken-hearted maid who takes the
bequest.
Miss Emily Cox has been elected president
of the Women’s Committee of the Prison
Aid Association, vice Mrs. Plomley, who has
a year’s leave of absence to go within visit-
ing distance of her son fighting in muddy
Flanders. Mrs. L. Edgley will pro tem.
take Mrs. Plomley’s place on the National
Council of Women.
The Women’s Horticultural Society has a
new depot in Victoria Arcade. As gifts
roll in fresh eggs, flowers and homemade
jams are sold at bedrock prices for the
Cause. Mrs. Bertram Stevens is hon. shop-
lady till a permanent manageress is secured.
Our Western Suburbs Hospital has just
had a huge egg-fall. Adjacent hamlets,
Croydon, Ashfield, etc., collected the fruit by
the hundred. And great was the joy therein.
The war nips our sick poor of the little
luxuries of peace-time. So the recent raid
on local nests was a godsend. The good-
natured Peters family, of Mount Joy, the
place where the big Belgian carnival raked
in such a heap of money, conspired together
with a team of adjacent mayoresses.
Recent Maoriland arrivals include the
squatting Willie Ritchie pair from Albury,
S. Canterbury. Mrs. Ritchie used to be Miss
Dibbs, of Graythwaite. Her husband’s
brother, popular Jock Ritchie, was lately
killed at the Front, and a younger member
is badly wounded. That one was best man at
brother Jock’s recent wedding in London,
and later on annexed the chief maid thereat.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
. i'
v">-
iSS£?giiS
t« ;: -'.i•'''..
**r
?■>• ...
S "SPSS?£
.f' •. ,
>" ' ‘ /'< ... '
**»■
A l '
;•■■>... -V....i*v.
I
(P
l
K
£3w
gt
i
m
m
Wm>
n
Hi
a
L
t
ii
a
&«■
§@
iiti
M
UM
\r M
mm
m
&
&A
a
m
m
m
3
IP
i
3^
W
£
©
*€S •*
//
5^
CL/r£> ■>
Cobra,” U/ie Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Gets the Germans
Running too;
Chunder, Bear and Doe
The three
Ride them down with
Warlike glee.
o
As the runners
Pant and cough,
“COBRA" polish
Them off
If thev don’t
j
Shout ‘‘Mercy!” Fr
Loves the shining
“COBRA” 1 ance.


Farmer’s Tailoring.
ANNOUNCING THE SPRING MATERIALS
Sac Suits to Order from £6/6/=
—made from exclusive suit lengths. The New Season’s colorings
and designs are well represented, in Scotch Tweeds, Worsteds
and Homespuns, Grey Flannels and Lovat Tweeds. Farmer’s
Cutting and Tailoring are at a well-known high standard, and,
considering the fact that our present stock of woollens was
bought before the recent advance in prices, the suitings offer the
additional advantage of these substantial price savings. A
money-saving offer that should not be missed.
Tailoring Dept., First Floor, Market Street.
FARMER'S,
Pitt, Market
and
George tits.,
SYDNEY
m
EVERY WOMAN controls her own BEAUTY.
EVERY WISE WOMAN KNOWS
John §trange Winter’s
rc
KEw
Toilet
Preparations
are the most efficient.
Used by Royalty.
Obtainable from all
Drapers, Civil Service,
W. H. Soul, etc.
See demonstration now
at W. T. WATERS,
Cr. George and King
Streets.
A Beautifier and
Preserver.
Price. Blanche 3/-
Naturelle 3/6
Send 2d. stamp for
sample of Soap or
Powder, to
Dept. 32, JOHN STRANGE WINTER,
26 Jamie»on Street, Sydney.
m
, Test the
Latest....
“Dunlaps”
for Mileage !
m
Have You
Tried These
New White Tread Covers?
They are now all made of a special
high grade non-cutting tough white
rubber which gives remarkable wear.
The casings are made of the best;
special tyre canvas that the world
produces resulting in a cover
unsurpassed for Strength and Wear.
It is with the utmost confidence that
we recommend these white tread
to Motor Cyclists desirous of obtain-
ing a big mileage at the minimum
cost. We respectfully ask you to
test them on the road against any
other make. The result will be that
you will find them easily the best
wearing and most economical to use.
ORDER “DUNLQPS” — IT PAYS!
STOCKED VARIOUS TYPES AND SIZES-ALL LEADING AGENTS
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. ADELAIDE, PERTH. BRISBANE. LAUNCESTON.
WELLINGTON AND CHRISTCHURCH.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
For
Quality
Wear
and
Comfort
1
ALL
LEADING
BOOTSHOPS
Dunlop Rubber Co
All A N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, September 25, 1916.
My Dear Yaruie, —
Dicky Nevill, writing from Canada to
Melbourne friends, tells them of the accident
which resulted in a broken thigh. He
slipped on the railway station and fell
heavily, but at the time thought he was
only bruised. However, on returning to
Government House, the Duke of Connaught
insisted on the doctor being called and the
damage discovered. Five weeks later the
plaster of Paris was off and the long patient
was on crutches.
Mrs. Percy Russell surrendered her job
as Hawthorn mayoress with a final rattle of
trays. The Red Cross Kitchen in the
Domain was initiated by her, ana last week
she made over the useful going concern to
Lady Helen, Senator Pearce supplying a
speech of acknowledgment. The job of this
central Domain Red Cross Kitchen is sup-
plying luxuries for invalid soldiers in all
the military hospitals. Consignments of
all sorts of perishable delicacies are brought
to the centre several times a day, and some
Sassiety girls call as regularly as the milk-o
with dainties they have cooked an hour or
so before; and then the merely Marys of
the Kitchen lend their motor-cars to distri-
bute the supplies. Plawthorn rightly feels
proud of it all —and of Mrs. Russell.
The latest oversea news of heiress Marie
Hall, of Bendigo, is that she is pining for
her fiance, who is in France, and filling
in her spare time on a Thames houseboat.
The Jim Watsons of Brighton are greatly
distressed by the latest news of son-and-lieir
Eric, who is reported seriously wounded. His
little bride-sister still has her soldier-bride-
groom with her. He was detailed for work
at Duntroon, and that postpones the fare-
wells.
The wife of the President of France,
patroness of the Society for Helping Mothers
and Babes, sends messages of thanks to the
Australian people for their help. The
acknowledgments arrive through Mrs.
Crivelli, president of the society here.
Major Charlie Mason has left for Eng-
land on his way to the ditches. He was
badly wounded in the Gallipoli landing, but
finished a good recovery here within the
last four months, and has been filling in his
later convalescence training other Austra-
lians for the job. Mrs. Charlie is waiting
in London for him.
At Cliveden on Wednesday Mrs. Loibner
had a large party at her flat to say good-
bye to some soldier boys, returning to battle
and all the rest of it after recovering from
their first helpings. Lieuts. Palastra and
Cartwright and Trooper Young were the
heroes of the afternoon, and two dimpled
little nurses from the Base were among the
guests. Lesley Madden came in her best
hat, built of tulle and shaped like a busby.
Muriel North, the Bigjohn Forrest niece,
looked captivating in forget-me-not blue mus-
lin and a muslin fichu, and apologised for
Auntie Forrest, who had stayed at home to
comfort her husband in a bereavement.
Captain Hilliard, in mufti, and his handsome
lady, in black velvet, were there. The Cap-
tain made speeches over the teacups and
presented Lieut. Palastra with an onyx ring
on behalf of the Leibners.
The Como Armytages have parted with
their little farm at Beaconsfield, where they
have been w.ont to week-end for many years.
The town house will not yawn so emptily
now that there are two unmarried sisters
with brother Harold to squeeze in. Cousin
Fred Fairbairn’s new white palace across
the road is calling loudly for a tenant and
not getting him. It’s a sad year for big
houses.
Red Cross Commissioners Norman
Brookes, F. Fairbairn, Heyward and J.
Murdoch have soared from civilians to
the honorary rank of lieut.-colonels and
are attached to General Ilowse’s medical
department. Now what about the Y.M.C.A.
men? The postal people have their ranks
and uniforms already. Oh, no, not merely
the postmen at the Front. There are people
who do letter-sorting or something of that
kind amid the perils of the city G.P.O. who
go in and out to their daily labor in mili-
tary uniform, badges and all!
Adelaide’s giddy whirl: —
This State has another D.C.M. and an interest-in
a Military Cross. The D.C.M. has gone to Lieut.
Cuthbertson, who was at Gallipoli before he was
wounded in France, arid before that was an accountant
and well-known athlete. The Military Cross has been
annexed by Major R. M. Williams, who is attached
to a British regiment. He is an ex-St. Peter’s boy.
The Howard Davenports are off to England, which
is sad news for the Red Cross Society, whose
treasurer he has been. Another good helper, Walter
Smith, of Angaston, has gone to Egypt, in the hope
of seeing a son who was wounded at Romani.
Poor old Michael Angelo! Millicent, a townlet
in the South-East, has refused to hang in the vesti-
bule of its institute a photograph of Michael’s
“David,” and the horror is to be relegated to the
obscurity of the subscribers’ reading-room. Mean-
while the jetty of Millicent’s nearest port, which
takes a good deal of the township’s trade, is in such
a rickety condition that coastal boats are boycotting
it. This makes things square.
If J. A. Southwood can get his way we shall have
another soldier M.P. Quartermaster of the 74th
Regiment as well as Labor member and journalist,
he has applied to his commanding-officer (who is
Major Smeaton, and also an M.P.) for a job on active
service.
News has come from London of the death of G. A.
Tomkinson, the eldest son of the late Samuel Tom-
kinson, the old M.L.O. who used to object to every-
thing. He was educated at St. Peter’s and in England,
and took his B.A. and LL.B. degrees at Cambridge in
’B2. Back in Adelaide after being called to the
Bar at the Middle Temple, he temporarily abandoned
law in favor of commerce; then he went back to
England and added an M.A. to his degrees. Ilis
widow and children are in England.
In a week or two the Destitute Asylum on North
Terrace is to be deserted in favor of the Old Folks’
Homes at Magill. These homes are planned on the
latest lines, and we are rather proud of them; but
it remains to be seen how the ancients will like the
change from the city to a place that means a long-
ish tram journey to visit friends.
H. S. Hudd, who put in three years as a Liberal
M.P. and enlisted as a private with the S. Aus-
tralian forces, has pushed up to a commission.
Friday, being a Button Day, was wet, but well over
£lOOO was collected and added to the Y.M.C.A.’s
“Active Service” fund. The Christmas Gifts Cam-
paign is in full swing, too, under the guiding hand
of the League of Loyal Women, which does the Aus-
tralian Comforts Fund work in this State, with a
huge depot at the Exhibition Building, and another
in one of the big Rundle-street shops.
Lieut. Harry Thomson, one of this State’s Rhodes
Scholars, is in the latest list of wounded. Among
the killed is Lieut. J. A. Raws, son of the Rev. J. G.
Raws, of Malvern, a promising journalist. His bro-
ther, also a lieutenant, was recently reported-miss-
ing.
There is to be a Navy League fair at the end of
next week, at North Adelaide, in Mrs. A. McCulloch’s
garden, as a preliminary to the big Naval and Red
Cross exhibition that is billed for October. And the
income-tax exemption is to be lowered to £156.
Soon it may soak into some- minds that the steady
demand for cash means something.
“Ruby Lind” is
the Australian girl
who was Miss
Lindsay—Norman’s
sister —and is Mrs.
Bill Dyson. “Mrs.
Bill” has been wor-
ried of late by the
imminent possi-
bility of hubby hav-
ing to take a gun,
although Bill’s car-
toons are being
used by the official
publicity men as
war posters. An-
other worry Rtiby
has encountered
arose from the
inconvenient prox-
imity of Zeppelins,
rendering it necessary for her frequently to
grab up husband and baby, and rush for the
bomb-proof coal-scuttle. These things have
interfered somewhat with the lady’s artistic
output, but she is still doing a little fine illus-
tration work. Bulletin readers know all
about the quality and charm of her drawing
and the extraordinary slickness of her line.
Bigjohn Forrest is a sorrowful giant these
days. The wholly Unexpected news of
brother George’s death in Westralia hit him
very hard.
F. S. Meyers, of the big blue car and the
London Stores, is marrying his daughter
Eva to liieut. B. Marks, son of Henry
Marks, of Fiji. My chief Fijian authority
has gone to the war, so I cannot say how
much of the island is his. Undoubtedly a
lot of property in this 'world is owned by
one Marks or another.
The William Gunns, of Armadale, have
been advised that the big list of missing,
compiled as a result of the doings in France
on the 19th of July, includes the name of
their son AEneas. Young Gunn made three
attempts to enlist before his final accept-
ance —an effort worthy a nephew of such a
woman as Mrs. “Never Never” Gunn.
The Bendigo Mackays have lost another
son. Angus, the eldest son of Angus, was
recently killed in France, and the news has
saddened a lot of people who know the
’Tiser family.
Now that Harold Hunt has married, the
most hardened bachelor might make an
altar-rail appointment with a girl without
startling Melbourne. Jolly little “Bobbie”
Collins, the bride, is the daughter of Dr.
Collins, of Auckland (M.L.), and once
toured for a while with the Julius Knight
Co. Harold the haughty said farewell to
his bachelor friends on Wednesday and was
married in Sydney on Thursday last. His
wedding trousseau is reported to be perfect.
The couple go to U.S.A. for a three months’
trip by the Niagara.
Hunt’s partner and closest friend, Jack
Dunlop, was married a few months ago to
the daughter of Mark Whitty. They also
went on a three-months’ voyage, and were
passengers on the last outward trip of the
Niagara. Now there is only one man of
this bachelor group left unmarried —wool-
buyer Gilman.
Mrs. Maberly Smith, who used to be one
of the Sandringham Hopes, has had some
18-carat cable news from her husband, last
heard from as leading his company in
France. He is now Major Maberly, M.C.,
which seems to indicate that he won his
cross and his majority at about the same
time. Maberly, the elder, who died not
long ago, was one of Geelong’s most-trusted
doctors.
Argus Mackinnon and his dame have
tracked up to Bananaland for a glimpse of
sun before the Cup carnival calls for further
social exertion. Daughters Barbara and
Nancy will just take a breather in the
country with their pal, Mrs. Ross Thomp-
son. Brother Lauchie is still busy pushing
army stuff on and off waggons somewhere
at one of the several fronts.
Fan Dango Mackay and her husband are
making a dash to Sydney for the horse sea-
son. They have sold their Berwick place to
Selby Paxton, who will ruralise there on
week-ends and holidays.
The daughter of the late Syd. Day was
married very quietly last Wednesday to
Arthur Riley, son of J. H. Riley, the rich
man you think of when you walk past
Inceley’s, Webb’s or Rocke’s in Collins-
street. The little bride, still sorrowing for
her genial dad and worrying about her only
brother in France, had everything done in a
minor key. She wore a lovely little cream
cloth coat and skirt and motored back from
the quiet old Scotch kirk at Brighton to
her old home for breakfast with her own
people.
Presbyterian parsons who branch off into
politics seem to have no luck. Alexander
Robb, who stood for Parliament after he
had abandoned the pulpit, sued this week
for divorce from his wife, now of Sydney.
The lady, for her part, asked for divorce
from Robb, also for alimony with custody
of the Robbins. Even a parson’s marriage
isn’t necessarily made in Heaven.
Paul Dufault began his season in the
Auditorium on Saturday night and gathered
a good audience in spite of flooding rain and
a dozen or less opposition first-nights. His
devoted people crowded the ground floor
and comfortably filled the balcony. Three
weeks —or a month at the most —will see
him through, for he is due for an American
tour and must leave Auckland on November
28. tie has to fit in a Maoriland trip before
then, and there is to be a farewell concert
in Sydney during the last week of October.
The star retains dainty little Pauline
Bindley as his soprano; besides having a
beautiful voice she has the great charm of
only reaching the star’s shoulder. That
means a lot to a short but glorious tenor.
On Saturday the little singer wore a cocoa-
nut-ice creation of white net garlanded with
graduated white satin bridal ribands; and
she indulged in a youthful pink silk sash,
pink stockings and shoes, a pink snood-
riband in her hair and side curls.
Melba is sending loads of Christmas-boxes
to the boys in the French trenches. When
they are opened a cunning little silver
mascot will be found in addition to the usual
supply of edibles, pipes, etc. The mascot
is stamped on one side “Melba’s Mascot,”
and on the other “Bless You.”
E. 11. Oliphant has carried out his threat
and leaves this week for America. His
trunk has a special water-tight compart-
ment for his plays.
Friends of artist Fred Leist, formerly of
Sydney and now of London, will be sorry to
hear that his daughter Dorothy was con-
cerned in a shocking misadventure recently.
They were giving a send-off to some soldiers
at her father’s studio. After dancing came
romping. Cyrus Cuneo, the well-known
artist, made a grab at Miss Dorothy, and
she, pushing him away, scratched one of bis
nostrils with her finger-nail. Some time
afterwards the little scratch became a
poisoned wound, and 10 days later Cuneo
died of septic pleurisy.
Jack Sommers, artist and poet, is in Lon-
don recovering from trench fever. At least;
he was in that city that swallows Zeppe-
lins, but just now the gentry of Hertfordshire
are showing him what English country life
is like.
George Chirnside, of Werribee Park, is
spending his time between Werribee and
private hospitals endeavoring to heal a
wandering’ knee-cap. Ilis appearance in a
motor-car with bandaged limb has led to
his being cheered as a returned-damaged
soldier. His decorative wife and daughter
Audrey are holding up the Red Cross in
London.
Henceforth the Red. Cross wants no frills
on its socks. Many sock-Susies have spent
time in doing fancy designs on their knit-
knitting forget-me-nots, “conversation”
mottoes and the like. It doesn’t necessarily
give a soldier that liome-like feeling to
march with a heart-and-arrow chafing his
instep or “A Message from Port Melbourne’’
rubbing inside the top of his boot. Hence
the Red Cross edict.
Haw-Hawthorn Anglicans are going to
drown their war troubles in a joyful noise
—£looo worth of it. A new organ is to be
built right away for well-fed St. Oolomb’s,
and the cash is ready. Maybe the expen-
diture won’t help to win the war; but at
least the money will be spent in Australia,
an Adelaide man having been given the job.
Wednesday was the Italian National Day,
but the Italians here felt that they could
not rejoice and make merry while their
people at home were so busy lighting. How-
ever, Consul Eles and a small band of
patriots met at Richardson’s Cafe for din-
ner, drank their country’s health and re-
joiced over the specially good Italian war
news just through.
The William Weatherly and George Kelly
widows are preparing a welcome for spinster
sister Maggie, who three "years back lit out
for California in search of health. Having-
found it, the little Scotch lady is coming
back to Australia for a three-months’ chat
before getting back to the pines that Bret
Harte advertised so well.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


FI
FI
m
n
WA
111
\
\
V
< J
■ g
I
•*, /
\J'
f
THE FINEST NiSa 2Si*^
ueuim
M
ffl
a ■
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
iMPSRiiriNsW
& Tb)&s>t6nD Clubs
John Dewar e Sons B
Drillers ■. PERTH,(scot lana) & LOUDON.
,r*l.
i‘ 'i
i*
iw!
P
\/
\
/
I. X
‘lull
r
P 5
i* i
I* 'i
N
|i r, i
FI
v /
k .if
V
IjJ’
Py
ud
n
"111
llH 1
'Uli
M 1
n
'HI
h. W
*
k
I
i
y
y
n
P]
M
n
11 11 l
y
PI
k
i
k
I
IIJ


RO
ME
0
Wm
•‘Tftmiifif-
TRIPS TO THE
The Company’s
Mail Steamers
leave Sydney
every alternate
Saturday.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY RETURN TICKETS TO CEYLON are now issued at the following
SYDNEY Ist £46, 2nd £32, available for 75 days
’ From MELBOURNE .. ..Ist £42, 2nd £3O, available for 72 days
TVnm ADELAIDE .. ..Ist £3B, 2nd £2B. available for 70 days
From Fremantle .. ..Ist £32, 2nd £2O, available for 60 days
For those who have longer time at their disposal some delightful tours can be arranged. For
svdnev to Colombo via Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, thence to Singapore by P & 0.,
and return to Svdney via Torres Straits, by Burns, Phil P or Royal Packet Company calling at .Java,
narJit, Thursday Island, Brisbane, etc. Fare. Ist Saloon, £B2. Tel \ Cl £ 6321 ‘ ,
For further particulars apply A. GORDON WESCHE, Superintendent in Australia, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A Signal Success
King (jeorge IV
WHIMf
The TOP-NOTCHSeotch.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“McNortli” : The hardest feet I ever met
belonged to Bill Merter, a long, loosely-built Aus-
tralian who hunted the nimble pennyweight bare-
footed for years in the rough country of Woodlark
Island (Papua). He had never been known to wear
boots, and he would use the side of his heel as a
block for cutting up tobacco or sharpening a stick,
like a native. One day while the mine tool-sharpener
was making drills Bill accidentally put his bare
foot on an inch or so of red-hot steel which had
just been cut off. Bill didn’t notice it; he just
stood there and asked: “What th’ hell’s that smell
of somethin’ burnin’ ?” It took fully half a minute
for the hot steel to eat its way through the hard,
leather-like substance that composed the sole of
Bill’s foot. But when it did there was an uproar.
It was many weeks before Bill put his foot to the
ground again, and when he did it was safely packed
in cow-hide.
* * * *
“YVada”: Re “Barcoo” and the homing
instinct of animals (B. 17/8/’l6). A party of
aboriginals from the Murrumbidgee near Hay went
to Melbourne accompanied by the usual dogs that
Binghi collects about him. After having seen the
sights they departed for home, taking train as far
as Goulburn and hoofing the rest of the journey.
The dogs were last seen in Collins-street, Melbourne,
but on arrival at their destination on the ’Bidgee,
the first to welcome the wanderers home were the
same mongs.
“Lowan”: Can the camel swim at all?
Some years ago my mate and I were trying to pilot
a couple of Abdul’s friends across the Murchison
(W.A.), when one of them slipped into deep water
and disappeared like a -politician’s pledge. He rose
again some little distance down stream ; but merely
to say “Kismet,” or something. Then he drifted away
around a bend without so much as making the
smallest dog-paddle for land.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “Biddy B.” some time back
gave a list of the peculiar names tacked to the ships
of the interior. Years ago when the Duke of Man-
chester toured Western Bananaland the hostess at
one banquet was the proprietress of the principal
pub. Her speech of welcome was fixed for her, but
in her triumphal moment she flowed over and
supplemented the welcome with an invitation that at
some future date his Lordship might call again and
bring the “dear Dukess” with him. This so tickled
the local wheelwright that he straightway christ-
ened a new waggon on the stocks “The Dukess.”
All hands are dead now, and even the waggon has
senile decay.
“J.J.C.”: “Vigil ans” (B. 24/8/T6) 4s
correct when he states that the termites in the
Territory tackle live timber. The only sticks that
are immune are the teatree or paper bark, the Leich-
hardt pine and the bamboo. But I do not agree
that the pest has taken up permanent residence in
the Territory. It has been found in Queensland
that when they are disturbed they immediately leave.
If land is ploughed up before the crop is put in the
white ant does not molest it. But if the crop is
only “hoed” in it is devoured. This was proved
by experiment on the Government farms on the
Daly River.
* * * *
“Longy”: The Vic. Dept, of Agriculture
has a sure and simple cure for the borer that
attacks the sugar gum, and as many Western men
have planted the gums and had them ruined by these
sappers, I pass on the remedy. Pour a3O per cent,
solution of phenol into the crawler’s tunnel and
plug the entrance with disinfectant soap. If the
grub is making upwards a syringe will do the trick
nicely.
* * * *
“Hay”: Several Abo. writers have praised
the plain-turkey on a dish. But it is not as
toothsome as the wood-duck, known to Binghi as
“koonahli.” After rain, when water is to be found
in the clay-pans, wood-ducks arrive in thousands
and can be easily bagged with a shot-gun. They
flock to these feeding-grounds in great numbers and
their peculiar, harsh-sounding notes can be heard at
night in all directions. The bird is a size larger
than the teal and much brighter in plumage. A
lunch of cold roast wood-duck and johnny-cake is
a meal not easily beaten.
* * * *
“Granite”: The best sheepdog I ever
knew was a magpie. Fealy, who ran a pub at
Black Springs, near Beechworth (Vic.), also owned
about 30 sheep. The magpie kept them in order all
day, and at a signal yarded them at night. Mag
yapped and snapped just like a sheepdog, and any
jumbuck that didn’t do as it was ordered knew
what to expect.
* * * *
“Corio”: When Hogan’s store began to
blaze a stampede whs made with buckets to the only
available water in the creek some distance away.
But the best the water-carriers could do was to keep
the fire in check. At length Ryan hit upon a plan. He
harnessed his bullock-team to the building and pulled
it to the creek. After thiat, it was easy to extin-
guish the flames.
SOBER VIEWS.
THE IMPRESSIONIST : “You don't like my
pictures? Well, I paint things just as
I see them."
THE CRITIC : “But you oughtn't to paint
when you're seeing things like that."
CONFUSION OF TERMS.
PARSONn (who has given swagman a job painting parsonage fence) : “Let it be a credit to
you, my man."
SWAGGIE : “No, boss —cash down, be cripes, or I'll summons you"
“Spreader”: Near Wilberforce, in the
County of Cumberland (N.S.W.), I have had an
experience growing cabbages for the city markets
which might set irrigation enthusiasts on a new
train of thought. We set aside four acres of ordi-
nary black-soil cabbage land, cropped the season
before with corn. When the rain came we ploughed,
harrowed twice, and rolled the ground. Two acres
we let stand as it was till the time came for plant-
ing out; the other two acres were harrowed and
cross harrowed twice a week, and at the end of
every fortnight we turned this portion over with
the double-furrow plough. Two months from start-
ing we got a fair fall of rain, and the whole four
acres were turned over, harrowed, rolled, drilled and
the plants put out. The dry-
worked portion was scuffled as
soon as the plants took, and the
other half was left as it stood.
We flooded the drills twice a
week witli water from an irriga-
tion plant, and in order to give
the matter a severe test we fer-
tilised this portion with bonedust
and blood. The two acres that-
had been dry cultivated were
scuffled in between the rows three
times a week, but got no manure
or water. Here are the results.
The two acres that were manured
and watered but not worked to
conserve moisture, and only
chipped twice with a hoe to keep
down weeds, netted £25 19s.
after all labor, manure and engine
oil had been allowed for. The
dry two acres netted £3l 4s. 6d.
Of course, the expenses were
heavier on the irrigated section,
but the fact that has the weighti-
est bearing on the case is that
the cabbages that Nature grew
(with a little assistance) grossed
£1 14s. Bd. an acre more than
those that were artificially grown.
Irrigation as the means of supply-
ing the future wealth of this
country, judged by what experi-
ence we have had of it, doesn’t
seem to be so promising as the
possibilities of increasing the pro-
ductiveness of millions of acres
of the best land that are not within range of artifi-
cial water. It is not to be inferred for a moment
that anything other than water is the prime factor
in growing crops. The point at issue is that by a
fair knowledge of dry-farming half our so-called
droughts would lose their significance.
“Dead Finish”: My queer pub-name is
the One Eye. It stands six miles from Maxwelton
Siding, on Queensland’s Great Northern Railway,
and a mile off the One Eye crossing in the Flinders
River. Two years ago one of the portable shearing
plants which peregrinate thereabouts was pitched
near this pub. Among the crowd were a one-eyed
cook and a ditto offsider ; two shearers had one eye
apiece, and two rouseabouts were gunners. The
penner-up’s dog had —-well, anyway, the pub had its
name years before.
A DIFFERENTIAL GEAR.
MIKE : “Phwat do yez think of me new
chimney, Pat?"
PAT: “Shure, hut 'tis laneing to the lift."
MIKE: “Well, if yez goes round t'other soide
'tis laneing to the roight; so, faith, 'tis
avenly balanced! "
“E.J.8.” : One of our chaps of the 10th
was a hard case. I remarked that he must have had
a doing when he had his jaw smashed up like that.
“Yairs,” he said, “but it healed pretty soon. The
doctors had to put in a bit of overtime on my right
eye, though, on account of the socket bein’ out of
plumb. The glass one they put in looks all right
until I’ve had a few. Then this left swine gets
bloodshot and puts me away. But it’ll be all right
soon. I’m having a red and white one made for
special occasions.”
(Continued on page 24J
THE RIME OF A CASUAL COVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The creek beside the tent went dancing down
And glancing down the granite-bouldered way;
A kookaburra, like a solemn clown,
Laughed in the face of day.
The mine was calling, calling me to graft;
But morning beckoned me and lightly laughed.
And through the scented bush I saw the bright
Dance of the silver sunlight on the ground.
A thousand birds were welcoming the light.
A never-slumbering sound
Thundered from where the headlong waterfall
Hung like a veil before the mountain-wall.
And in that ever-rumbling thunder-tone
I heard the tumult of a mighty host
Of white-maned ocean-chargers booming down
The sandy miles of coast.
It woke the follies in the heart of me,
And set me longing for the rolling sea.
Above the billy’s bubble-bubble song
Clattered the clanking engine at the mine;
But in my gipsy blood there ran the strong
Riot of wander-wine;
And still the willy-nilly ocean-call
Rang through the thunder of the waterfall.
The whistle blew. My thoughts went underground,
Along the tunnel that I daily trod ;
And then they hovered by the seas that sound
Like songs of some great god ;
And back to stopes of darkness down below,
And up to-day—and then I damned the show!
I damned it once, and if the truth must be,
I thought no more about the mine at all,
But strode away to seek the rolling sea,
And past the waterfall,
And down and down the mountain-track I went
'Swinging, and singing with a heart content.
Night, and the great grave stars that sauntered by ;
Night; and a droning lullaby of billow,
A bed of leaves beneath a tent of sky,
A continent for pillow.
That night the good-night kisses of the breeze
Lulled me to sleep beside the summer seas.
And there for seven days I lived the free
Life of a loafer in a lotus-land ;
A seven lazy, hazy days of sea
And sun and clean warm sand;
A seven days of drowsy dream-delights—
Marred by the blasted loneliness o’ nights.
The hags of solitude they slept by day,
But night by night along that silent shore....
Enough! At sunrise I was on the way
Back to the mine once more;
Ay ! back to drives and stopes, the plunger’s noise,
The murk and work, but—back among the boys!
Morning ; the plains ; the sunlight shimmering ;
Noon, and the ranges where the long climb starts;
Sunset, and gaudy parrots quarrelling
Like crowds in Asian marts;
Night, and the light o’ friendly six-by-eights;
Hey! and the hearty cheeros of my mates.
Lord ! it was jolly to be back once more
And yarning, yarning half the night away.
Then like a soldier coming home from war
I went to work next day ;
Blithe as the sunlight dancing on the track
I went to work —and found I'd got the sack!
MAORIIjAND.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.


ADVICE TO ASTHMA and
BRONCHIAL SUFFERERS.
By a Well=known Beauty Specialist.
y;o',.
m
wm
MISS L. V. GARLING, Sydney’s popular Hair and Skin Specialist, Of 136 Pitt Street,
whose photograph appears above, gives advice which is worth adoption:—
136 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mr. G. W. HEAN, Chemist.
Dear Sir, —I am quite convinced that there is no finer remedy than Hean’s Essence
for either acute or chronic coughs. It is a common thing in my profession to find
ladies whose good looks are marred by deep facial furrows, brought about by excessive
coughing. It has been my custom to advise such patients to take Hean’s Essence to
allay the coughing which would naturally cause a recurrence of the disfiguring lines
which I had been able to remove by massaging. The result has been most gratifying
in every instance, and for that reason I consider Hean’s Essence a boon to every
woman afflicted with asthma or bronchitis who wishes to minimise the careworn
expression which these distressing ailments inevitably produce.
I remain, yours faithfully,
E. V. GAREING.
It is a well-established fact that there is no finer remedy for all forms of coughs and colds
than HEAN’S ESSENCE, This is abundantly proved by the experiences of users all over
Australia, over 3000 of whom have written letters of gratitude for the benefit they have derived
from the use of this Economical and Speedily-effective Preparation.
Each bottle of HEAN’S ESSENCE, when added to water and sweetened according to
easy directions printed on the label, produces a pint of superior-quality cough and sore throat
medicine. A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at least 12s. HEAN’S ESSENCE
costs only 2s. (by post 2s. 3d.), and is obtainable from leading Chemists and Stores, or direct
from G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
1 ■
■
Jt
mm
■H
IT
II BREAD
£>
a
The Leviathan Offers You
One of the Best Tailoring
Services in Australia—
We tailor Suits for hundreds of Men whom
we never see—to the self-measurements which
they give us on our easily-understood Home
Measurement Charts. The invariable result
is: Complete Satisfaction. Our high-grade
Tailoring Service is at your disposal. We
guarantee to make you a suit that will give
you the utmost satisfaction in Style, Cut, Fit
and Finish —or we will refund your purchase
money.
The New
Spring 8 Summer
Suitings at 6s|-,
70/-, *4/-, 97/6
to 1261-
have arrived. Never before have
we had such an extensive selection, for
with the vast increase in our Mail
Order business, and our great success
in making Suits to Self-measurements,
we have added varied assortments in
every class of Material —especially
fabrics suitable for wear in the Tropi-
cal parts of Australia.
Ask to-day for Free Patterns, Tape
and Home-Measurement Charts.
Remember! We Guarantee Satisfaction
or Money Back.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Cl
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-each
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
A. Records A
12=INCH
DOUBLE=SIDED
from
5-each
12-inch Single-sided. Price 10s. 6d. each.
75005
“THE DREAM OF GERONTIUS”:
No. I.—“My Work Is Done, My Task Is O’er”
Duet: Clara Butt
and Maurice D’Oisly
75006
No. 2.—“1 See Not Those False Spirits”
Duet: Clara Butt and Maurice D’Oisly.
With Chorus of Angelicals
75007
No.
3.—“ We Now Have Passed the Bate”
Duet: Clara Butt and Maurice D’Oisly.
With Chorus of Angelieals
75008
j No. 4.
I
‘Softly and Gently, Dearly Ransomed Soul”
Clara Butt. Contralto. With Chorus of Angelicals
12-inch Double-sided. Price ss. each.
599
j Australia Will Be
( The Land of Gra-
There Lloyd Johnson, Baritone, and Chorus
-ma-chree Jamieson JL)odds, Baiitone
601
f “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
-j Selection, Part 1
[ Selection, Part 2
Regimental Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
Introducing: Part I—Opening Overture; Nocturne; Dance of Clowns;
Overture. Part 2 —Scliersso; Chorus of Dairies; Bottoms March,
March.
Finale ot
Wedding
602
j Down Home in Tennessee Lloyd Johnson and Clioius
) Pack Up Your Troubles in Your Old Kit 8ag.... „ , ”, » ’.v
603
) A Broken 801 l
I California, from “Joyland 1
Lloyd Johnson, Baritone
Dorothy Russell, Soprano
10-inch Double-sided. Price 3s. each.
2663
S Pique Dame Overture
] Poet and Peasant Overture
Royal Marimba Band
2664
j Sal ut D’ Amour
( The Gondoliers, from “A Night in Venice”
Flute Solo by George Barrere
2665
Love’s Garden of Roses
Deep in My Heart
Carrie Herwin, Contralto
2666
f Eleanore . Fraser Gauge, Baritone
) There Grows a lionnie Briar Bush . . WW \ ” ” -
2667
j The Yukon Trail
| The Lounger
Dramatic Recital by Bransby Williams
Humorous Recital by Bransby Williams
2668
( Robin Adair
) Cornin’ thro’ the Rye
Miss Perceval Allen, Soprano
2669
\ The Blind Ploughman
1 Invictus
Norman Allin, Bass
12-inch Double-sided. Price ss.
SPECIAL ISSUE.
1,1041
( A Broken Doll
\ I Was a Good
Clarice Mayne and “That”
Little Girl Before I Met You ~ » » »
‘THE BING BOYS ARE HERE” —Special Issue
12-inch Double-sided. Price ss. each.
1,1034
Another Little Drink Wouldn’t Do Us Any Harm.
Alfred Lester and George Robey.
I Stopped, I Looked, I Listened
Trio : Violet Loraine.
With Alhambra Orchestra
George Robey, Comedian.
With Alhambra Orchestra
1,1035
If You Were the Only Boy in the World, and I Were the Only Girl
Duet : Violet Loraine and George Robey. With Alhambra Orchestra
In Other Words George Robey, Comedian. With Alhambra Orchestra
1A036
“The Bing Boys are Here”
Vocal Gems, Part 1
Vocal Gems, Part 2 ....
Columbia Revue Company. With Orchestra
1,1037
f “The Bing: Boys are Here”
-j Selections, Part 1
[ Selections, Part 2
Alhambra Orchestra. Conducted by J. Ansell
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daldng House, Itawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street. I
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Pirth, Royal Arcade. *1
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 213 High St.
DJJNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


GGTTTS I
llMSeedoiimeA!
MEGGITT LT?
PARRAMATTA
FARMERS!
Feed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
I MeggittLtd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
For all Lung
Troubles
take
1/3. 2/9, 4/6
Of all Chemists
Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-two years Angier’s Emulsion is now
universally recognised as a standard approved
treatment for coughs, bronchitis, asthma,
consumption, and for all catarrhal affections of
the respiratory or digestive organs. Angier’s
Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a
most invigorating, tonic influence upon the
general health. Equally useful for children
or adults, it is an invaluable household
remedy for chest affections,
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
Send name and address, 4d- postage, and mention this paper
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.. 7, Barrack Street, Sydney.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton,*
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
Food enjoyed, is
Food mure nt wishing.
CHILDREN do like
Gravy, and a little
Bisto makes a lot of
delicious gravy in
“no time” and with
no trouble.
" Everything
but the meat.”
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CEREBOS, LTD.
“R.S.A.”: I will cheerfully uncover my
flowing locks to the quidnunc who will truthfully
tell me that he can tell the difference between iron-
bark and grey gum when the bark has been removed.
There is a most unjustifiable prejudice against grey
gum as firewood, though it is every bit as good as
ironbark, which realises anything up to 2s. 6d. a ton
more than its relative. If, however, you are chopping
amongst green timber it takes no time to remove the
bark from your grey-gum slabs, and then off to
market goes a truck-load of timber which the agent
himself will designate as “best ironbark,” and which
the buyer will have no cause to growl about when he
applies the good Australian match.
* * * *
“Snell”: The long, thin man whined
for half a minute, and then Gunn parted up the price
of two beers. “You see that bloke sorter done me a
good turn once,” Gunn explained in apologetic
tones. “Fact is,” he said, “I was in a bad way,
out of work, hard up, neuritis in the neck, ’n’ the
girl I was shook on marryin’ another feller. I sez
to myself, ‘Jumbo Gunn, this earth ain’t no place
for you. You’d be more at home and happier some-
wheres else.’ I was that tuckered out and blue all
through I agreed unconditional, an’ takin’ all things
into consideration, plumped for drowndin’. I went
to the big rock where the river turns above Mac-
fadyin’s, an’ I prepared for the worst. 1 took off
me coat, ’n’ folded it up, laid me hat on top, an’
then waded in. Up to me knees I stopped t’ put in
a plea for a square deal in the hereafter, an’ just
chancin’ to look up I spotted a bloke at my coat.
He was turnin’ it over ; ’n’ presently he offs with his
own string iv rags, an’ ducks into my best beaufort.
’Struth ! I wasn’t goin’ t’ that. I fetched
a yell would have thrown a cow off her base, an’
MOTOPITIS.
SHE: “When you hear
a noise and start
suddenly, it’s a sign
you’re guilty of
something, isn’t
it?”
HE: “Yes. If it’s a
motor-horn, you’re
guilty of being on
the earth.”
he let out licketty-split fer the hills. I’m after him.
an’ by the time I’d caught him and fought him, I
found I’d give up all idea of suicide. But lie’s
gettin’ wearisome. He’s been drawin’ on me fer
small change ever since. I’d have been money in
pocket if I’d let him have the flamin’ coat.”
ALL PLEDGES KEPT.
FIRST PRESSMAN : “Lord, what a nose Isaacstein has! Looks like drink!”
SECOND DITTO: “Oh, I don’t think so. Isaacstein has been taking the pledge all his life.”
“The Reefer”: The Purari Papuans are
dwarfs, but claim they could be giants if they liked.
The mere application of the juice of a plant that
grows in their back yard will considerably enlarge
any parts of the body to which it is applied. So to
become a giant it is only necessary to collect suffi-
cient of the elixir and have a bath in it.
“Sarto’s” tabloid melodrama :
Act I: Two robins build a nest in one of my
trees.
Act II: As many eggs therein.
Act III: Two young birds.
Act IV: Two amazed robins feeding two lumber-
some cuckoos.
Act V: Divorce.
“Ilex”: “Barcoo” (B. 7/9/’l6) should
take his jibbing steed out on a quiet road, and as
soon as he jibs hit him with the whip, -say, on the
shoulder. Then securely truss the nag with straps
and ropes, and keep him in this fixed state for about
half an hour after he wants to move on. He will
gee so disgusted at being made to stand still that
after three doses one flick of the whip on the
shoulder will remind him of the torture and prove
a cure for all I.WAV. principles.
* * * *
“E. 8.”: “Pick” (B. 24/S/’l6) asks if
any Abo. orchardist has tried camping sheep among
his trees to eradicate codlin moth. I don’t know of
any orchardist having done so, but I know an apple
orchard that was treated with sheep droppings with
complete success. About July the soil was taken up
to a depth of about 18in., leaving the surface roots
bare. The holes were then filled with sheep drop-
pings and the soil put back again. The apples proved
to be quite sound and free from the curse, but three
trees untreated were infected as in previous years.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: “ ’Tis quare ’n’ multifarious
the way iv Fortune wid a man,” said Flynn.
“There’s Cornalius Crowe succeed in life be havin’
a tree fell on him. Cornalius is a man well
beknown. Can it be true ve’ve not heard iv the
fame iv him ’n’ him a number iv Parleymint wonst
’n’ a man wid a reputation fer ugliness mentioned
in the press rnanny occasions? Crowe is livin’ here
wid the rest iv us, bor-rn ’n’ bred in Bungaree, ’n’
till he is twinty-siven remar-rkable fer nothin’ but
ugliness. I’m admittin’ free he’s a fine figure iv a
man, tall ’n’ well shouldered, ’n’ wid an eye to
him like the bluebell, ’n’ a clane brown shkin t’ go
wid it, but fer the rest ugly ez the Devil’s self; ’n’
smit sore wid the dirty timper too. ‘Black Crowe’
the girls are for ever callin’ him, ’n’ he’s an open
shport wid them. There’s thim is irritated, wid the
presence iv a cat or any shmall har-rmless thing, ’n’
Crowe is that way with weemin. ’Tis plain they
irritate him all over; ’n’ when weemin is acquaint
wid that sor-rt iv man ’tis their nature t’ get to
him like blackbur-rds on one iv their kind wid a
white feather ’r some sich defor-rmity, ’n’ peck him
to death. There’s none more impish wid Cornalius
Crowe than Nora Conley, nineteen ’n’ a ha’f, ez
purty ’n’ fragrant ez a bunch iv honeysuckle in the
early day, God save her! Lor-rd knows there’s no
har-rm in her impudence wid Crowe; ’tis the mis-
chief iv a squir’l. ‘Good mor-rnin’, Black Crowe,’
sez she. ‘Will yeh never shmile at all, man, ’n’ it
the lovely gay day ?’ ‘Go Tong wid yeh,’ sez he;
never a wor-rd more’n that, ’n’ she’s hoppin’ to ’n’
fro, callin’ to him. ‘Yer face is like a broken pot,
Cornalius Crowe. Is there never a tradesman t’
mend it ?’ sez she. ‘Ah-h, go ’long,’ sez he. Well,
there’s wan day Nora Conley is cornin’ up frim the
crick wid wattle ’n’ wild geeraniums in her hair, lep-
pin’ this way ’n’ that, whin Cornalius Crowe is
lumberin’ down frim One Hut. She sings a rhyme
at him filled wid the ins’lence iv youth ’n’ the
glory iv a great day, V he answers nothin’ at all.
Lookin’ by chance she sees the grey iv his dead
face striped crimson wid the blood is drippin’ frim
his hair, V one ar-rm is hangin’, ’n’ he is stumblin’
ez he goes. She’s at him. She’s no more a girl at
all, but a strong woman. ‘Cornalius Crowe, yer
hurted, man,’ sez she. ‘Sit! sit, will yeh not?’
She pulls him down on a log, ’n’ is busy wid his
wounds. Her little round hands is ez sweet on him
ez butterflies’ wings ’n’ ez strong ez Billy the
smith’s, ’n’ all the while she’s murmurin’ at him
a way that takes pain from his hear-rt. She tears
the things she’s wearin’ t’ bind him, ’n’ minds it
not a bit. Then she lies him in the green shade
’n' runs fer cool crick water in his hat. Then sez
she: ‘Yi’ll lie here, poor man, till I’ll bring a
car-rt.’ ’N’ she was off on- her small swift feet ’n’
back agin soon, wid a car-rt ’n’ a bed tick to lit.
She’d spoke to none, ’n’ to none would she; ’twas
t’ be her own doin’. She brought him home, ’n’
she nursed him, ’n’ from the moment she found him
hurt be the hill she was his, she said, no matter
what. Cornalius wed wid her when well, ’n’ he
was like a man has received the benediction iv
Heaven ’n’ is fearful the joy of ut may flow through
his fingers away. Frim the day iv their marryin’
nothin’ wint wrong wid him. ’Twas like she’d put
her little cute brain into his great head. He
far-rmed wid more sinse than anny other man in
the disthrict, ’n’ then he wint t’ Parleymint ’n’
become a man iv dishtinction, ’n’ she was always
pushin’ behind, so to speak. ‘Nothin’s too good
for Cornalius,’ sez she, ’n’ she’s right; the Lor-rd
attested ut whin He give him her. ’Tis only a limb
iv the ' tree fell on Cornalius scraped his face frim
eye to chin, leavin’ an everlastin’ scar. Ever
afther said herself: ‘ ’Tis a great pit}', so ’tis, for it
come near to spoilin’ his beauty intoirely.’ ’N’,
God iv mercy, she mint iti”
* * * *
“Daybreak”: It’s waste of time to talk
in hundreds of how many posts have been split from
one tree. Here in Tassy they get ’em in thousands.
Quite recently I saw an old stringy bashed to pieces
that yielded 2500 posts and as many pickets. And
that was not considered anything out of the ordi-
nary ; there are heaps of other bird-rests bigger than
that. But if it comes to really big trees, well
When the railway was being built from Burnie to
Waratah (Tas.) there was a stick in the road that
took four men, on a platform, a fortnight to fall,
with two boys barrowing the chips away. AVhen it
did finally crash to earth the thump could be felt
all over the Speck. Hoary splitters swear that it
would have split enough posts and pickets to run a
fence across the island.
ART IS LONG, ETC.
VISITOR : “I suppose the most difficult part
in your work is to find the colors?”
ARTIST: “Yes, Miss —and to pay for ’em.”
“Tiaki”: Do forests suffer from epi-
demics? I knew a collection of sticks in Maoriland,
comprising rimu, totara, white pine and matai, which
fell a victim to arboreal phthisis, or something, in
1870, and 20 years later the greater part of the
giants were rotting in an early grave. Henare ex-
plained it by a prophecy that as the power of the
Maori faded, so would the big timber.
EXTENUATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They yanked him off to gaol because he took a
humble share
Of Wilson’s sheep (and Wilson had ten thousand
sheep to spare !).
The}' placed him in a felon's dock, with blue-clad
peelers near,
To give the Law its dignity and fill his heart with
fear;
To give the Law its majesty, its glory and its
force. ...
He pleaded guilty—but, my oath! that man could
ride a horse!
He broke Convention’s written code —he broke it into
bits
(And when they ran him into quod I guess the
twain were quits!).
He did the thing decreed against by men who make
the laws—
Queer coves who draw big screws to work their high-
falutin’ jaws.
You say: “He got his just deserts—the Law must
take its course.”
Well, p’r’aps it lias to—but, my oath! that man
could ride a horse!
N.s.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


kV)S o\titel
.intljeir gualitles.
c\q^
HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
AT MODERATE PRICES.
CIGARETTES
connoisseur says: “I always
smoKe State Express Cigar-
ettes, no other brands tempt me.
The consistent quality and flavor
can always be relied upon. Why
should I seek, elsewhere?”
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKING
STANDARD WEIGHT
NOT LESS THAN
10-6
D.
Obtainable of all high-class
tobacconists and stores
throughout Australasia.
•fT& i
pS&
C»°
\a»y
uni
lit*
9°“
«r
<**
*S
RV
XU **s
v;*
ACCOC
RUfAC
TOB
ROA tH
DON
ON
Sole Manufacturers s
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
LONDON, ENG.


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Ml
* my
\ \\rf‘
I
6 h \
\ “Jrwit
c k. ”*c\uy 3*i* T ** jlfi
<*c\uy 3*
V
H
i
Mf7
'•'•flu
16
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
Price: 25/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Branchs* at Sydney. N.S.W. & Wellington, N.Z.
What a wonderful family it is! Rose,
Harriet and Sally Hyams, with a fourth
sister who is now Mrs. Laurie Abrahams,
started their pirouetting more than a
quarter-century ago. Though only a few
feet high and very broad, the family long
ago triumphed over such trifling obstacles
to success, and now has an apparently un-
warpable reputation as a toe-training com-
bination. Harriet Hyams, by the way, was
a piano-student at the Melbourne Conserva-
torium years ago, and was one of the little
bunch of that time who were regarded as
having a Future. But Harriet had her own
ideas and duly carried them out.
The Italian opera people complain that
they cannot find a cheap spaghetti palace in
all Sydney. Whilst in Melbourne they
browsed luxuriously at places where the food
was delivered the way they liked it, they
declare that Sydney serves it in an egg-cup.
As everybody who has travelled knows,
spaghetti should be served with a tub and
two toasting-forks.
Dorothy Brunton used to be a footlight
sister to Harrie Ireland when that red-haired
actress was a reigning Bland Iloltian. Doro-
thy Brunton, Daisy Ireland and Irma Caron
were just three ambitious youngsters then
and used to sit in a bunch at Harrie’s shoe-
tips. Clever Dorothy got a big share of the
attention. In those days the hair that is now
so golden hung down her back and was a
deep chestnut. It was so long that the
proud owner could sit on the further ends
of it. Now it is fair and fluffy like a baby’s;
but only half the length.
“K.” : After sitting out the first Sydney
performance of “Romance,” I have decided
not to begin any future plays of mine with
two gramophone selections. The gramo. on
the stage—even with a Caruso record on
sounds like a small child squeaking in a
back parlor, and the only person in the Cri-
terion who wasn’t fidgeting was the aged and
reverend Frank Harvey. But he was being
paid to keep still. When devoted grand-
daughter Alma Rock Phillips went to put on
a second disc, an agonised voice from aloft
yelled “Cut it out!” The polite but wearied
downstair people seconded the motion with a
sigh.
“Circle”: Within the next 20 years I
shall attend a performance of a Ned Kelly
grand opera by an Australian composer.
Unless the opera tradition alters, we must
have blood and thunder —and, as a wholesale
dealer in those necessary props., Ned ranks
after the tlieatrically-impossible aboriginals.
In Italy our most eminent bushranger will
be disguised as Nedda Kelli, and La Scala,
where the old traditions roost high, will
put him into a Fauntleroy plush suit and a
lace collar. If he is extremely unlucky he
will also have a light court sword and black
cotton gloves.
“Yarra Ben” : I have no means of know-
ing whether “Edson’s” pertinent remarks on
the flabbiness of dramatic criticism in Mel-
bourne (B. 24/8/T6) have anything to do
with it, but it is noticeable that the Argus
has since become quite dashing—not to say,
damning. What about this? —
Two low comedians who seldom rose above the
adjective and who sometimes failed to merit the
noun !
Or this :—•
The chorus have been chosen for qualities obvious
rather than vocal.
I shall not be surprised if we get some real
criticism shortly.
“J.F.11.” (London) : The Bishop of
London’s crusade against the promenades in
certain variety houses has been successful at
last. Such pressure was brought upon the
London County Council that word was
passed round to the managers to afford no
further facilities to Tottie if they wanted
their licenses renewed. So Alfred Butt, of
the Empire, and the lesser lights of other
houses have announced that the promenades
will no longer be open to women. Evidently
Melbourne man Oswald Stoll smelt some-
thing. The Alhambra promenade was one of
the roomiest and most largely patronised of
all these places ; but he promptly closed it
on taking over the management a few weeks
ago.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“The Hum” : Shave, sir? Then allow me
to introduce Miss Ainsworth, of Narrandera
(N.S.W.), who has handled razor and
scissors for the past couple of years. Her
saloon is a joy for ever, because so many
familiar things are absent. No beery breath,
no advice about the races, no futile argu-
ments —only peace, clean work and courtesy.
I move that barbering be put on the pro-
hibited list for men,
* * * *
“Quidam”: The Drouin (Vic.) butcher
who has the motto “Live and Let Live” over
his shop is not original. Twenty-five years
ago a butcher at Bundaberg (Q.) had the
same words on his crest. I remember it par-
ticularly well, because I was driving down to
Burnett Heads with an old drystick of a
man I was canvassing for pictures with,
time-payment made-in-Germany stairs that
an Australian house made a big fortune out
of. I remarked upon the singular inappro-
priateness of the motto, but my old anti-
derrink confrere didn't see any point in the
remark. Some weeks later, when we struck
Howard, a coal-mining town outside Mary-
borough, just as it was celebrating a football
match by the most whole-souled drunk I ever
saw anywhere, my teetotal friend got so
overcome that he became intoxicated for a
fortnight, and his most consistent topic of
conversation was the humorous inappropri-
ateness of that butcher’s sign. I have ever
since refused to listen to arguments about
liquor making a man dull. In such matters
you mustn’t generalise.
“Condenser”: The Bulletin of July 20
refers to a mineral called lenzile which the
Yanks are marketing at a high price for use
in wireless telegraphy detectors. The par. ven-
tures the opinion that at the price probably
Australia could supply a rival from its own
minerals. Right! It can. lam using for
the same purpose a mineral which Australia
can supply in large quantities, and which
will give six times the distance of any stan-
dard Marconi magnetic detector, and to lit it
up as a detector costs about the price of a
whisky and soda. In good weather I can
receive readable signals at a distance of over
4000 miles. Its name is galena, and the best
of it comes from Geraldton (W.A.).
* * * *
“Bridge”: “Cam” (B. 31/S/T6) is opti-
mistic regarding the future of the jewel-case
trade in Australia. Ilis view that the prin-
cipal houses are going to bar the German
and Austrian jewel cases may be correct;
but if they are left to follow their own path
1 doubt it. Idas “Cam” forgotten the jewel-
lery importers and shopkeepers’ recent depu-
tation praying for the removal of the
embargo on imported jewellery, which, inci-
dentally, includes jewel cases?
* * * *
Concerning the splitting of an old hair: —
An interesting point arising out of the law as to
infants was decided by the Tasmanian Practice Court
lately. The Public Trustee asked for directions in
the administration of the inter-State estate of an
“infant” —a storekeeper who, at the date of death,
owed divers merchants £350 for goods supplied, of
which some £7O worth was still unsold. The next-of-
kin claimed these unsold goods on the ground that
their deceased relative, being under 21, wasn’t liable
for trade debts. The Court held that, under the law,
an infant’s contracts other than for necessaries
were void, and as bills for trade goods weren’t run up
for “neoessaries” the creditors couldn’t recover any
cash. But the creditors could recover the goods
themselves, provided they could identify them. So
it amounts to this—if a creditor “gets fly” to the
fact that an infant debtor isn’t likely to pay him he
can demand, and if necessary sue for, the recovery of
goods supplied, providing that the infant isn’t “fly”
enough to get rid of the stuff before the creditor
“gets fly” as aforesaid. The bird that flies quickest
wins.
* # * *
To “rob a poor man of his beer” takes a
lot of doing. Premier Peacock, very busy
just now with the Six O’clock Closing Bill,
circulated the other day some illuminating
statistics regarding the shutting-up of Vic-
torian pubs. The figures show that since
Sept.. 1906, pubs have been reduced from
3448 to 2505, while the liquor purchased over
the counter has frothed up from £1,607,760
to £2.021,766 worth. The average sale by
each of the 3448 pubs for the year ended
Sept. 30, 1906, was £470; the average for
the 2505 for the year ended Sept. 30, 1915,
was £S00!
* * * *
“Clxloe”: We ought to investigate the
methods and materials used by the
women of Timor (Malay Archipelago) who
extract from their own flora by hand-press
the colors they use in the staining of
their rich and beautiful sarongs. I have two
hand-made pieces of cotton from the house-
hold of the Rajah of Gabenzoes, Koepang.
These have been for five years in constant
use as portiere and table-cover respectively,
and have not lost color nor become in any
way shabby. The colors are orange, red,
black, a rich emerald, a maroon and a gold,
as well as a pale daffodil. They were spun
on old-fashioned distaffs, woven on curious
hand-looms worked by six women at each,
the patterns being painted on by hand with
a dye-brusli as the material passed through
the loom. Each rajah has his own color
and pattern, in the manner of the Celtic
tartans. Sarongs such as those in my pos-
session last half a lifetime. If they don t
the grand-daughter of the lady who made the
disappointing garment is remonstrated with
by the grand-daughter of the owner. It’s a
slow business.
*** . *
Out of the battle-smoke comes a joyous
letter from a lad who tells how he
“again got a pair of Australian boots. They
are second-hand, but they fit me all right.
The Tommy boots have neither shape, make
nor size.” But we must go on importing,
gentlemen. It stands to reason that the
foreigner can do the thing better.
The Ellerman liner City of Hankow stag-
gered away from Williamstown (Vic.) the
other day with what is reputedly the big-
gest wheat cargo ever lifted in Australia by
one vessel. She had on board 126,000 bags,
equal to 10,500 tons. The next heaviest
wheat cargo is said to be one of 123,600 bags.
In the Sydney District Court the other
day Judge Murray jumped vigorously on one
of the snide practices :of some cos. that deal
in Workmen’s Compensation insurance. A
workman had had his eyes damaged while in
the employment of the defendant firm. At
first he thought that only one eye was hurt,
and was induced, for the sum of £4 10s., to
sign a document purporting to release the
firm from further liability. Subsequently it
was found that both eyes were affected, and
the damaged person sued for adequate com-
pensation. When the paper he had signed
was produced against him, it raised the
anger of Justice, which sometimes manages
to get angry in the right way. Having
snorted that insurance cos. which took over
employers’ liabilities apparently issued forms
like this in order to entrap the unwary, the
Judge snapped out a verdict that meant £2OO
and costs.
* * * *
“Unba”: “F.N.T.” (B. 7/9/T6) is no
doubt quite right in supposing that brown
paper could be made of bracken-fern. You can
make paper out of nearly all our native
plants, from the bluegum down to the com-
mon “sag” rush. The Melbourne Botanical
Museum and the Technological Museum con-
tain specimens of paper from dozens of
different shrubs and plants. But whether it
would be a commercial proposition is an-
other matter. “F.N.T.” commends the ex-
periment to the Federal Council of Science
and Industry; but it is surely, like the
making of glues and gelatines and other
things already turned down, too sordid for
that exalted body to soil its fingers with.
“D.F.”: Some time ago I mentioned the
apple-store dug out on a hillside by It. It.
Bealey, of Kangaroo Valley (Vic.), who
was thereby enabled to keep his fruit in
good condition right through the year with-
out bothering about cold-storage. __ This
evoked a snort of disbelief from “Kopje,”
who said if there was anything in the idea
everybody would be doing it. Some of them
are: a Vic. orchardist is now selling at a
good long price Jonathan apples which he
has kept through the winter in such a store.
* * * *
“Harrow”: Some dreadfully superior
people came to live in our street a few weeks
ago. A mutual butcher told my wife that
they were “from home.” The housefather
mostly wears a golfing suit, though there is
no evidence that he golfs. Of course, the
family does not know us, although now and
again, when I have been catching an early
train, I have met the daughter—an anaemic
girl who carries her head at an angle of 45
degrees —cycling homewards, accompanied by
a violin-case. I was mildly curious about
these early music-lessons, until the other
morning, when a dog got in the bike’s way
and brought the rider down. The violin-case
flew open, tossing on to the roadway—a
priceless Strad. ? Not a bit of it. Some
carrots, turnips, beetroot and a parcel of
what were probably sausages. The girl obvi-
ously was uninjured, and I was chivalrous
enough not to assist in the work of salvage.
After all, there is something Spartan in the
snobberv which will send a haughty damsel
marketing in the early morn with a violin-
case in which to conceal her guilt.
“Cam” • At church the other Sunday mora-
ine I sat in the same pew as a friend of
ffie named Catter. When the good man
was reading out the names and addresses of
those about to wed I saw Catter, who has a
time Davment furniture arcade, rapidly mak-
ing notes in a pocket-book. He told me later
that he posts business-cards and catalogues
every Monday to the prospective customers,
and ‘does a number of churches in rotation.
He says religion pays.
BEAUTY’S BOOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just now the Australian woman, consumed with a
desire to make herself look like a darkey’s bride,
decorates the ends of her legs with arrangements
that simply yell for inspection. — Bulletin 21/8/’l6.
I made it my biz ev’ry dear girl’s phiz
To see as she passed on the street,
But of late I lower my eyes to quiz
What the boj's call her “plates o’ meat.”
No more I’m cowed by her frozen frown ;
For her glacial look who cares?
I don’t see her face for I’m glancing down
At the .wonderful boots she \years.
I no longer offend any lady friend
Or deserve the rebuke “What cheek! ”
“Glad eyes”—like winks —are now at an end,
Direct ones or oblique;
Her gaze I meet no more, for I
Move along with downcast lids ;
I may look devout, but my glance is sly
At her gaitered tans or kids.
Though ever so fair her face and hair,
What matter ? I’m gone on her boots !
Her spats are her fortune now, and rare
Is the sight of her “daisy roots.”
I shall fall to the most attractive brace,
And the owner, where’er we may meet,
She may have any sort of a foolish face —-
I shall throw myself at her feet 1
VICTORIA.
THE BOOT-LOVER.
THE SAINTLY “TRAY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am sure the threepenny-bit will go to Heaven.
It comes to church twice every Sunday.”
—Rev J. Snell (Ballarat).
To church proceeds the saintly tray
In answer to the bell.
While half-crowns roll in wanton play,
It keeps the Sabbath well,
And lies both morn and eve in state,
An offering upon the plate.
But is it not in Scripture writ
More joyous pseans roll
Where angels bright in Glory sit
When some poor, spotted soul
Is rid of its unrighteousness,
Than o’er ten-score that ne’er transgress?
And though the pastors praise it so,
How often they have craved
To have the thripny here below
By frugal laymen “saved,”
While they employed bell, book and gown
To salve the reprobate half-crown!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
HIS DRAMATIC END.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Bronk, the great tragedian,
Was superannuated. He
Was very old and weak, poor man,
And near his finish seemed to be.
We knew, though, if he had to go,
He’d pass out like a gallant pro.
He acted in that close retreat
Like one upon a spacious stage;
He’d enter, exit, drink, or eat
The greatest actor of his age.
In bed, approaching his decease,
He was the hero of the piece.
One night he strode into the storm,
Declaiming with his final breath,
With lifted brow and swaying form,
Some splendid periods from “Macbeth.”
Long thunder tore the heavens wide -
He bowed to God’s applause and died!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
THE DRINKING STAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a star whose brightness naught could dim;
He blazed and blinked for many hundred nights;
Mere men of earth could scarcely glance at him
Who trod the firmament in costly tights.
But all lights fade and ev’ry star must fall,
Leaving all black when Hope and Power have fled ;
We found our dark star lying in the hall
And, panting, bore him up the stairs to bed.
Like Caesar’s corse was he when We came in ;
Rum was his posture but his breath was gin.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


L
■^•■:-..'; , .v'v:i*»?rtvV->;f-«/-.... :
~<//.,;. .- '.-f/.v. >.,
V.!®,
'ZAtiQim
tf-V; iihU(\y. :
i;C& toVJuV' Jiß
/■ vS®3
Mv-A
K
r.
H/
•m
?
V!i
a
LVr-
m
*1
'<fdin
i
'lll
t»
»»
#.
N
t
V\v
A
• C 4
4t
*"K. *
L“0
0
&
%J
Y' ..
*7
O
V a'
***>“*
****
'////, W//U
'//A W//
mm
m
Wa
t#
v/M
W///t
wm w%
"T"HE mark “MAZDA” on an electric lamp
1 designates the highest standard of
excellence made possible by the complete
embodiment of EFFICIENCY, BRILLIANCY and
ECONOMY, the fundamental requisites of
successful lamp service.
I
W
W i
I. J
r
"«■////
W/4,
r
p
yp? V
H S'jf * *
DRAWN WIRE
LAMPS
tt
MAZDA” —
“Not the Name of a Thing—
but the Mark of a Service.
9
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulbutfn Street, SYDNEY.
. TELEPHONE— CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agonts—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE. f
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


. X
mwo\
r' /
■■y ♦ ■
f r
"V.
§
M
A. Saunders’ Sugar and Cream Service, Afternoon Teaspoons
and Tongs, Solid Silver, hand fluted, gilt lined, in S’ilk- and Velvet-lined
Case, £4/10/-. Without Teaspooons and Tongs, £3/10/-
ra
m
a
ana
firt
US
o
[lfflmKrwmnniii
A. Saunders’ Tantalus Spirit Frame, English
Oak, natural finish, pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Mounts,
hob-nail cut crystal Glass Bottles, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ A 1 quality pure Silver-plated
Afternoon Tea Stand, comprising Sugar, Cream, Cake
and Biscuit Servers, gilt lined, richly fluted, on ball feet,
£3/10/-. B quality, Silver-plated, £2/10/-
EXQUISITE
DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’ Mustard Pot, Pepper and
Salt Pourers, with Spoon, A 1 quality, pure
Silver-plated, in Silk-lined Case, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, A 1 quality, pure Silver-
plated, hand burnished, “Empire” design, £3/3/-
SB
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers,
“Real Carlton” Fancy Floral China, A 1 quality, pure
Silver-plated Mounts, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805 George Street (° P BtSio»» ,ay )» Sydney.
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Pie Servers, pure silver-
plated, hand burnished, in handsome Silk-lined Case, 35/«
A. Saunders’ Sandwich Basket, unique
design, pure Silver-plated, hand burnished, ball feet,
£2/10/-. Similar design, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Double Jam Dish, Fancy Floral China Dishes,
pure Silver-plated Frame, 12/6.
m
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-» Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him*
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana., 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, II- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
AVriting Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert AVales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. AVill Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
■
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 40.0 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, hut about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ir-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. "WB
Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, ll-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. Tiie White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Way'backs, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paul.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more,
fntnnare my prices with others and save
yolTr eash. 25 Years.
ONIjY a SMAEE idea oe my STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking «
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up., Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Thicks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don's Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll's Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers'
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
my price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
Cheap Book Depot,
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)


m
Well-
Dressed
Men
—who insist upon having correct
style, perfect fit, smart appear-
ance and comfort in their footwear,
will always find lasting satisfac-
tion in
Abbey Shoes.
We illustrate a high-grade Patent
Kid Button Boot, with Perforated
Golosh and Fawn Calf Legs.
Price 42/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
* WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney'.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and -External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by .A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Hotels, &c.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P-O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to .Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per (lay,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
<ss>
0
SAFETY
*J[ Enjoyable touring and efficient commercial transport
are alike impossible without the sense of security imparted
by good tyres. The toughness of Avon rubber and the
strength of Avon casing reduce to a minimum the risk of
punctures or bursts, and the sure grip of the “ Sunstone ’
ladder-grooved tread makes you as skid-proof as it is
possible to be —whatever the weather, whatever the road.
COMFORT
*H" Superior resilience alone can reveal the maximum com-
fort of motoring on pneumatic tyres. Many a car owes
its reputation for luxurious springing and silky running to
the buoyant liveliness of its Avon Tyres.
ECONOMY
f The same qualities of strength and resilience that
achieve safety and comfort necessarily cut down ultimate
costs —of petrol, repairs to chassis and tyres as well.
Avon economy is the economy of endurance —the typically
British sort of tyre beauty that is more than tread-deep.
The claim that Avon Tyres show lowest cost per mile rests
upon disinterested records of average mileage in everyday
service, open to investigation and capable of demon-
stration on your vehicle.
I'
fit
V
y
%
m
sm\
m
i
N. /A
m
/A
m
i? K
Mj
asr*'
m
m ■■
/S.
"Hi
Agents :
N. J. HOWES & CO.,
212 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX,
26 Market Street,
Melbourne.
Made by the Avon India
Rubber Company, Ltd.,
at Melksham and Brad-
ford-on-Avon, England,
HA
•ncubatO
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
KING OF METAL POLISH
Made of the finest oils, contains no acid, 1
no ammonia, nothing injurious. Cleans
and polishes. Quickest of all. Imparts
a brilliant, lasting luster to doorknobs,
brass railings and all bright metals.
Sold in two size cans by all
Grocery, Hardware and Drug Stores,
Look for the Photo on Can
LA
m
0^
n/qv) o
00
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Niekel*plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes,
Puzzles,
Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
t
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do vou
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney;
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be .fix.ed by the importing
bookseller.
NEW, CHEAPER AND FINAL
EDITION.
GREEN’S SHORT HISTORY OF
THE ENGLISH PEOPLE. With an
Epilogue by A. S. GREEN, continu-
ing the History to the present day.
With Maps and Tables. Crown Bvo,
ss. net.
'/rAnn Times: “This epilogue runs to some
to 000 words; it is the best piece of historical
writing- Mrs. Green has done; and by itself is
nW r«n h r th £. five shillings for which the com-
pleted Short History of the English People can
now be bought.”
THE COM M O N W E A L T H OF
NATIONS. Edited by L. CURTIS.
An Inquiry into the Nature of Citi-
zenship in the British Empire, and
into the Mutual Relations of the
Several Communities Thereof. Part I,
Royal Bvo. 6s. net.
THE RUSSIAN STORY BOOK
Containing Tales from the Song
Cycles of Kiev and Novgorod ant
Other Early Sources. Retold in
RICHARD WILSON, 8.A.. D.Litt
Mith Sixteen Colored Plates and alsc
Line Illustrations from Drawings by
Frank C. Pape. F’cap 4to. 7s. 6d.
net.
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE
FRUIT-GATHERING. Poems by Sir
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. (A
Sequel to Oitanjali.) Crown Bvo.
4s. 6d. net.
HUNGRY STONES AND OTHER
STORIES. By Sir RABINDRA-
NATH TAGORE. Crown Svo. ss.
net.
AT VANCOUVER’S WELL, AND
OTHER POEMS OF SOUTH AND
NORTH. By J. LAURENCE REN-
TOUL, Author of “From Far Lands:
Poems of North and South.” Crown
Svo. 4s. 6d. net.
DISCOVERY, OR THE SPIRIT
AND SERVICE OF SCIENCE.
By Professor R. A. GREGORY.
With 8 Plates. Crown Svo. ss. net.
The Daily Mail : “A fascinating book,
written with a vigor of thought and an
accuracy as to facts that are not invariably
found in popular works, and it should make a
wide appeal.”
NATURE IN AUSTRALASIA. For
Boys and Girls. By JANE ADA
FLETCHER. Illustrated. Crown
Svo. 6d. net.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
volume.
MAURICE HEWLETT.
654. LOVE AND LUCY. By
MAURICE HEWLETT.
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
655. THE WAVE: AN EGYPTIAN
AFTERMATH. A new novel
by ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
653. GOD’S PUPPETS. By WIL-
LIAM ALLEN WHITE, Author
of “A Certain Rich Man.”
T.™ Telegraph: “Mr. William Allen
White s stories arc always attractive, worldly-
wise asna polished. Like his countryman the
late Richard Harding Davis, he can capture
his English audience by the sheer vigor of his
•narrative and the intimate, analytical power of
hi.s characterisation. He has imgination, in-
sight and dramatic art, and all these qualities
come prominently to the front in ‘God’s
1 uppets ... .The author of these vividly
modern stories has a keen and attractive mind,
and from it emerges fiction of a high order.”
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
SHILLING EDITIONS JUST
PUBLISHED.
DOROTHY VERNON OF HADDOJ
HALL. By CHARLES MAJOI
Globe Svo. Is. net.
THE VIRGINIAN. A HORSEMAI
OF THE PLAINS. By OWE
WISTER. Globe Svo. Is. net.
THE CARAVANERS. By the authoi
of “Elizabeth and Her German Gar
den.” New edition. Globe Bvo. Is
net.
This book describes the adventures of a lioli
day party of Germans in England, and h
specially notable for the keenness 'of its criti-
cism of German characteristics.
Complete List of Macmillan’s Is
Library Post Free on application.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Itanlwoxt/i 'Kotei
SYDrS ELY- rsi.sw.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is ideal for
Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties
and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel replete with every
comfort and modern convenience, including telephones in bedrooms con-
necting with the Exchange.
The cuisine is under the supervision of a very eminent French chef,
who has his own skilled staff of assistants —thus placing the Went-
worth Hotel with its perfect service and other advantages in the front
rank of the finest hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
MBS. MACIiURCAN, Manageress.
Hoyts Pictures
Georce>S-
OLGA PETROVA, Queen of the Screen, in the Metro
Photo Drama from the Famous Novel, “THE
SCARLET WOMAN.”
THEDA BARA in the William Fox New Version of
“EAST LYNNE.”
STARTING SATURDAY, SEPT. 30.
’Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre, no extra charge.
Night programme, 8 to 11. 12,000 ft. of Film.
CONTINUOUS DAILY 11 to 6.
Prices: 6d. and 1/-, excepting Saturday and Holidays.
Bourke 5-
The picture BlocK
Sydney 4
Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINS
IN TOPHET.
HIAWTHAUS : “The war seems to have
broken the astrologer’s heart.”
CHIBIABOSUS : “Yes; he tells me he’s had
more hick picking Melbourne Cup
winners than peace, dates.”
The Federal Government is itself tremen-
dously to blame for the most serious criti-
cism with which the Referendum Bill has
been raked. The Government shut up Par-
liament, and while it had things its own way
it muddled along and prevented the exposure
of wrongs and grievances. No sooner had
Parliament resumed and members’ mouths
were opened than the most hateful of the
restrictions on free speech were withdrawn.
This is a pretty good indication of what
ought to be done —so long as there is one
soldier, and especially one conscripted sol-
dier, in khaki, so long should Parliament
remain in session. It is not necessary that
it should meet every day—one day a week
might be enough. But this great protection
ought to be afforded; and if Hughes is wise
he will promptly undertake that it shall be.
Treasurer Higgs has struck so many snags
in connection with his War Time Profits Bill
that the measure has been held up. He had
no sooner made up his mind on a general
principle of assessment than a dozen cases
were cited to show that that principle would
produce injustice. It does not look as
though it will be possible to lay down any
hard and fast rules; and there is no good
reason why anything should be attempted
except in a very broad way. If we have tri-
bunals to say which men should and which
should not go to war, it is no less reason-
able that we should have tribunals to declare
what profits are due to the war, and being
due to the war should belong to the nation.
It is a big job, perhaps; but men like H. Y.
Braddon, of Sydney ; George Swinburne, of
Melbourne; and Chief Justice Murray, of
Adelaide, could do it with far more equity
than it could be done by any hard-and-fast
method laid down by elaborate legislation.
REDUCTION OF MEMBERS. —
AUSTRIAN METHOD.
Berne, Thursday.—Thirty-five seats in the Aus-
trian Parliament have been vacated since 1914.
Twenty of the former occupants were hanged and
others imprisoned for treason. — Cable.
Hughes can thank Andrew Fisher in the
first place and himself in the second for the
whole of the trouble he is now in, and for
the turmoil of the last few weeks. Over two
years ago Fisher specifically promised to in-
troduce “as soon as possible after Parliament
meets” an Initiative and Referendum Bill.
He had ample time to do so, as had Hughes
since: but neither attempted to keep the
election pledge. Had they done so somebody
else would long ago have taken the onus of
demanding a Conscription Referendum, and
Hughes, by thus making that possible, would
have got the credit for its acceptance. That
chicken wasn’t long in coming home to roost.
“F.0.E.”: At Garden Island, Sydney,
where they fit out the transports, they make
bonfires of the partitions, etc., taken out of
converted steamers. It is material that could
be put to good use; but it isn’t even heating
a boiler or crackling under a widow’s kettle.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth of
expensive fittings have been simply smashed
to pieces—fittings, including carved wood,
that could have been taken down in sections,
and replaced later on. The wicked waste
still continues, and apparently will continue
until the Government calls in half a dozen
business men to form a sort of roaming
commission' whose reports will be presented
fortnightly to Parliament. No good will be
done if the reports are merely made to the
Defence and Naval Departments. They are
simply pigeon-holed there.
McKissock, in the Senate, declared himself
against “conscription and cheap labor.”
Germany’s idea of what is a fair thing for
the North was shown by the fact that
when the Australians took Rabaul they found
the best-paid native labor there getting 10s.
per month. If McKissock knows any way
of preventing conscription and lOs.-a-month
labor than by fighting Germany, which stands
for these things, he ought to tell us.
To merely yell that he is against conscrip-
tion and cheap labor is just as sensible and
effective as it would be if he roared at an
oncoming mad bull that he was against being
gored by mad bulls.
[S. H. Pri®r, 214 George Street, Sydney.]
Givens, president of the Senate, took the
high road when the Referendum Bill was
before the Chamber last week. It is unusual
for the President to take part in a debate,
and with leading men in his party being
hurried to the guillotine for favoring con-
scription there was strong temptation upon
him to sit tight and express no opinion by
voice or vote. But that is not Givens’s way.
The occasion demanded personal decision,
and looking Labor between the eyes he made
an impassioned appeal for universal service.
Norman Bayles, M.L.A. for Toorak, asked
a sensible question the other day and
got laughed at for his pains. When Labor-
ite Prendergast’s Bill for the abolition of
aldermen was brought up and the Liberal
Ministry had given its blessing, Norman
arose and asked what was the use of passing
the Bill in the Assembly, since “everyone
knew it would be thrown out by the Coun-
cil.” Well, what is the use? But surely
Norman doesn’t propose to leave it at that!
If it’s no use the Assembly doing anything
of which the Council doesn’t approve, then
plainly, if we can’t spare the Council, the
only rational thing to do is to abolish the
Assembly.
The agreement made by the Tas. Govern-
ment with the Amalgamated Zinc Co. should
be satisfactory to the co., but is a very
doubtful one for the State. Carried off its
feet by the size of the business the Govern-
ment gave the co. a first call upon 50,000
h.p. at a price at which it is doubtful
whether current can be supplied: it is all a
matter of estimation, with very little to go
upon. The co. is given the right to sell
power to other people, and although it is
debarred from charging more than it pays
there are plenty of other ways in which the
co. can make money at the expense really of
the State. As the Baillieus’ co. has prac-
tically a monopoly of all power likely to
bo available for some time, any other co.
with a zinc process or other patent rights
requiring electrical energy would be at the
mercy of this powerful organisation. _ The
State has given it a splendid opportunity to
squeeze. The Labor Government purchased
from the original co. in order to prevent a
power-monopoly, and the present Govern-
ment has now handed over to a much
stronger co. practically the whole of the
available power.
A fragment of Pitt-street, Sydney, was
bought last week by an insurance co. for
£2OO a foot —bought from the family whose
Australian founder got it from the Govern-
ment as a grant. The family has added
about 2d. to the land’s original value. The
community has added the other £199 19s. lOd.
per foot. And now the community, having
created the £199 19s. lOd. worth, has handed
it all over to the people who' did the two-
penn’orth. It is a very mad community.
Efficiency and scientific training are fav-
orite catchwords nowadays; but the Vic.
Ministry does not confine itself to talk and
to getting Yankee and other “experts” to
give lectures. It shows the value it places
on knowledge by an advertisement in the
Government Gazette, offering £72 a year
to a man with “a sound training in theoreti-
cal and practical chemistry,” one who holds
certificates from a University or a recognised
technical school preferred. The maximum
pay for the job is £144 a year, or nearly £3
per week, and no mere scientist could want
more. Yet some people let their children
drift into jobs as wharf-laborers, where they
are harassed with as much as £1 a day.
In the Yie. Assembly a sensible proposal
by Toutcher to allow Australian wines to be
served with meals in hotels and restaurants
between 6 and 8 p.m. was brought for-
ward during the discussion on the new Early
Closing Bill. But Toutcher’s proposal was
trodden on with heavy feet, and Victoria was
told to go and tan its undigested meat with
tea and become a nation of dyspeptics.
TOO MUCH COOK.
New York, Wednesday.—A despatch from Berlin
to the United Press Agency says that the German
people are disappointed because there is no improve-
ment in the food situation. They declare there is
so much organisation that the food spoils.— Cable.
FRITZ : “Ach, such a big cook for so little
broth. ’E vill taste id all avay und I
ged noddings
To help Westralia struggle out of the pit
which Scaddan digged during his live years
of office, the Wilson Government proposes to
tax amusements. The first £15,000 or so
will be earmarked for the Repatriation Fund.
At latest, the show people were sharpening
their teeth on the property grindstone. But
it is too late. And, anyway, they benefited
as much as anybody by the bogus prosperity
which Scaddan’s borrowings created.
THE GLORIOUS LIBERTY TO BE A
COWARD.
“You little fool, ivhat did you want to fight,
for?”
“I didn’t want to fight, hut he hit me sister.”
“Hit your sister! Hit your sister! What
sort of an excuse is that? Don’t you
grow up to he a slave, my hoy, and
think you’ve got to fight just because
somebody’s hit your sister, or kicked
your mother or been a brute to your
wife!”
Victorian Statist Laughton has struck a
remarkable coincidence. Before the war
Australia got about £20,000 worth of cement
per year from Germany. She does not get
any now; but the imports from Denmark
have bounded up from £261 worth in 1914-
1915 to £20,502 in 1915-1916. Denmark is
next door to Germany. It will also, by the
way, be next door to Germany after the
war is over, when we shall be vainly trying
to shut out German goods by imposing
duties on goods imported from Germany.
“Croson”: While we are looking for “in-
creased national efficiency” what about adopt-
ing the decimal system? It would save years
of time in schools, offices, factories and else-
where. In fact, to a commercial office its
adoption would probably mean the saving of
the labor of one man or woman in ten. The
sole objection is the difficulty of inaugurating
it. But Japan did it, though its system of
weights and measures had been till then
almost as cranky as our own.
In Melbourne, at any rate, a section of in-
dustrial labor has something else to think of.
When, early this year, the State Government
gave the Eight-Hours’ Committee permission
to conduct its usual abominable Art Union,
it stipulated that “at least 33 per cent, of
the gross proceeds should go to charity, and
to this condition the committee agreed. The
gross proceeds were £4994, but the manage-
ment, thinking it didn’t matter, has got only
£663 available —exactly £lOOO short. And
now the pesky Peacock Government refuses
to wink its eye, and wants to know how the
committee proposes to make up the balance —
in notes or coin ?
Some people are quite candid, anyhow.
One Rhodes, the general manager of the big
Waihi mine, was before the maoriland Arbi-
tration Court the other day; and this was
part of his evidence :—•
Rhodes: We just consider the workers a piece of
machinery, something to buy and sell.
Then you would use the worker just as the car-
penter would his hammer or his chisel?
Rhodes: Precisely.
For an hour or two, and throw him aside without
further consideration until wanted again, just as a
carpenter would?
Rhodes: Exactly.
Then there is no sentiment as far as you are
concerned ?
Rhodes: Not a bit.
Some Labor people are saying that it would
be a dreadful thing if “conscription of
labor” by the State became a reality, and
men are asked not to let in the thin end of
the wedge. Well, the laborer has to work,
and The Bulletin has a notion that it
would sooner be obliged to work for the State
than for a person called Rhodes.
THE LAST OF THE MONMOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Knowing our chance of victory to be hopeless we
asked the Monmouth whether she could escape by
steering north-west. Captain Frank Brandt, her
gallant commander, replied: “My ship is making
water badly forward, and is unable to get away, so
I shall attempt to ram or torpedo one of the enemy.”
... .By this time night had come, and we could only
see the foe when the moon shone. Shortly after turn-
ing away we counted the flash of some 70 guns, all
directed at the gallant little Monmouth, and after
this we saw her no more. —Story of the Coronet action
by one of the crew of the Glasgow.
At the end of that dread day,
Rolling wounded in the sea,
Like some forest-creature grey,
Spitting bravely at ' on Spec—
That was what the Glasgow saw
Ere the night came down to hide,
And each gun-mouth, red and raw,
Cursed the Germans on the tide.
“Cannot run, so we shall ram
Or torpedo one,” they said ;
Then towards the wolves the lamb
Turned its battered, dauntless head;
Seventy guns spat out their hate
As the Glasgow turned to go,
And the Monmouth met her fate
With her bows towards the foe.
Sea and furrow, trench and wave,
Hide our brothers stark and stern !
To each land or ocean grave
We must adamant return,
As the gallant Glasgow did,
Leading out her sisters grey
In her cunning smoke-clouds hid
From Port Stanley’s sheltered bay.
Put the trumpet to the lip!
It will call us from our toil,
And the men for trench and ship
Will arise from out the soil.
Little voices call and craze,
But Australia’s eager ear
Waits impatient through the days
For the Great Call, brave and clear 1
N.S.W.
THE GUNNER.


What is Your
Favorite Reading?
You will find in the “Bookstall” Series at least a dozen shilling novels
that are just the stories you like.
Write for a Complete Catalogue,
‘Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
Adventure.
BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,
By LOUIS BECKE.
SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,
By A. J. BARRY.
THE TRADER,
By CECIL ROSS-JOHNSON.
TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE,
By E. J. BRADY.
Historical.
ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,
By ROY BRIDGES.
A REBEL OF THE BUSH,
By DON DELANEY.
Humor.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,
By EDWARD DYSON.
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
THE MISSING LINK,
By EDWARD DYSON.
BRIDGET McSWEENEY,
By THOS. E. SPENCER.
Sporting.
WOLAROI’S CUP,
By AMBROSE PRATT.
IN RACING SILK,
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
IN THE LAST STRIDE,
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
RUNG IN,
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
Romance.
bindawalla,
By THOS. E. SPENCER.
THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER,
By RALPH STOCK.
Mining Stories.
THE BELLE OF THE BUSH,
By GEORGE DARRELL.
THE GOLDEN KANGAROO,
By AMBROSE PRATT.
BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGINEER,
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
FOR TURON GOLD,
By DON DELANEY.
Stories of the Bush.
THE CALLING VOICE,
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
CHANDLER OF CORRALINGA,
By R. J. CASSIDY
ROCKY SECTION,
By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
SCOTTY MAC, SHEARER,
By R. S. TAIT.
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION STORIES.
Recently Published—GßANDPA’S SELECTION.
1/- each—ALL ONE PRICE—I/1 posted.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD ,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ii Westmg , Kousc"'ElcMric' ,, and ,,, Manißfaicturing , ’'Co Ltd"'
mm,
Electric Motors
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
ney are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and direct current.
I J? e } r are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
emciency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
nave manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
ot machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse— motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
fStinollOUSf
Mandiester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents
Standard Waygood Hercules. Ltd.,
77. King Street. Sydney
Elder. Shenton & Co.. Ltd..
William Street, Perth
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
_ . 27-31. Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder. Smith & Co., Ltd..
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
11 mi m m 111 m 111 mmi i m m m iii mmu m m mmmmm mm mmim iiiiiiiniMii
Works--TraVford Park, Manchester. England.
11111111111111111111111111111111111! I! 11111 11111111111 ! 111.1111 1111111 11111111111 ill •« ui 11 ?t 11 iiY. ■ i • ■..
m
\
m
A REMARKABLE FEAT
BY OXY-ACETYLENE
of d „ e “° n * t r t ( ! f d by the lustration, which shows how an old and worthless boiler, forty years
PonfinL en ? rm ° us dimensions was cut into small pieces and carried away from a
thp fi molt rliffir.nn 11 basement of a printing works. The whole work, conducted under
e most difficult of situations, was finished in two days. Without OXY-ACETYLENE
have taken weeks, and the whole of the printing machinery and plant would
have been idle and disorganised for weeks in excavation and dismantling work.
EVERY ENGINEER and all interested should write in for free catalogues «ivinv
tnfnMpnr l nf 6tB fk d description of this and other remarkable engineering achievements. & The
Of cutting done! in the two days, by one man, was 144 ft. 6in. of a single
thickness of lin. plate, and 18ft. Bin. of the double thickness of 2in. plate.
OXY^StvS 1 great BRITAIN, AMERICA AND THE CONTINENT the
Cutting mid^Weldin^ 1 Sh ° UM be “ ble t 0 Speak witb “"<1 of the OXY-ACETYLENE
repair h shop“,°tou b flries W steel ‘° * helr e ' lmpmMt inclpdc manufacturers, contractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers
U §.
. V*'/
- v
'/Mm
ekWi 1
9S
M *
«H
MB
■i
■
HK
HI
r_Vj
un
■H
mm
t::
fc*
H
fj
■
sacs
. «S
HIM /#£
18?
'..'■;:'V'V.-'
m
&££»
>*&&
:-'•> V
Cutting' up a Cornish
Multitubular Boiler.
wfj®
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Agents-
Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street
IDPI AinF I anS V I)eakin Co -> ”2 Edward Street. Cet ‘
PFKTIV 1 / A «™ In *™ m * Co > Wyatt Street.
IERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Etd., Murray Street.


It seems Billy is going to get firmly seated
on that fiery conscription steed after all.
He’s been wisely inspired, even if not by
that wise spirit King George IV. topnotch
Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Shampoo Sachets
For cleansing and beautifying the hair. The
only wet shampoo that helps the hair to grow.
British made.
3d. packet everywhere.
Icilrria is pronounced liye-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
If you’re particular about what you drink make
sure you get Thorne's Whisky—in the black square
bottle. It’s the spirit that particular men particu-
larly like. Its subtle, delicate flavor— invariably
mellow, smooth and satisfying makes it very accept-
able to a discriminating man. The perfect quality
has been maintained for over 80 years.
Try THORNE’S WHISKY.
O.H.M. “Incomparable.”
[1
CURES ECZEMA.
Edewyl, Hannell Street, Wickham, 13/7/’l6. Mr.
S. Fielder, Randwick. Dear Sir, It is with a feel-
ing of deep gratitude that I write to tell you of the
refief I got from using your valuable remedy. I
have been suffering severely for some time with
Eczema I got treatment from several chemists and
several oatent medicines that were recommended to
me Thev all failed to cure me. I was eventually
recommended to try your valuable Skin Cure. I got
relief after the first application and now an. very
pleased to say completely cured. —Gko. Eailm.
All Chemists and Drug-gists
or S. FIELDER, Randwic
s'-, 2/6
You’ll be surprised to find how
much easier and safer it is to
shave with a Gillette. The
old-fashioned shave is nothing
but a habit. Drop it and get
the
m
m
NO STROPPING NO HON INS
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere. Write for free booklet.
Agents: S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
mm
m
TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
Returned disabled soldiers.
/ Single Men with Thorough Farm
Training who are disabled in upper body
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Overseers in Solomon Islands by writ-
ing to ISLAND INSPECTOR,
BURNS, PIIILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Last week’s expectation of this page that
Dan Seaton’s colt Eastcourt would do something at
an early date was translated into fact on Saturday
at the Hawkesbury. The Earlston youngster landed
the Guineas, with Agathon next. The difference
between the pair at the finish was a neck; at the
. start Earlston was favorite, and Agathon at 20’s.
Both are in the A.J.C. Derby on Saturday. Neither
indicated that the extra distance will worry them
much. This is going to be a great Derby. In
Wolaroi and Eastcourt, Seaton has a couple of good
strings to his bow. Of course, Wolaroi will be
favorite, but Isaac is not likely to open his face too
wide if anyone inquires about Eastcourt’s price. Many
shrewd judges give the Maorilander Kilboy a big
chance. One of them informed the writer the other
day that “this Kilboy’ll beat all the Wolarois.” As
it happens, there is only one Wolaroi. But there is
Bucklaw to beat, and Thana is a rare good filly. Also,
there are J. Wren’s Mudros, which is said to have
been backed, and one or two others. If Wolaroi
misses the ribbon, this page wiU be short a dollar.
“Mujik”: Blague, Hopfield and Polycrates
are on recent running the best-handicapped horses
in the Epsom, and in spite of all the yarns about
gallops on the track and all the rest of it, form
shown in public is always the best thing for the
punter to take notice of. This holds good even
against such reversals of form as a Sydney nag
lately showed within a week by running last and then
first. It is because he is usually a rotten judge of
form and has a wide ear for stories about some-
thing else that the average punter gets rid of what
he toiled for. In the Tramway Handicap at Tatter-
sail’s meeting Polycrates made a run over the last
furlong which stands out by itself as the most
brilliant hurry-up seen on the Randwick course for
a long time. He carried Bst. 111 b. In the Epsom
he has Bst. 61b. Hopfield was up with Woorak at
the mile post in the Chelmsford Stakes with 9st. lib.
aboard. In the Epsom he has Bst. 131 b. Blague
(9st. 31b.) was doing well when Cetigne (9st.)
ended the argument about the Spring Stakes at
Rosehill. In the Epsom he comes down 131 b., and
Cetigne goes up 61b. The person who can sort out
this lot of form and lick it into proper shape is
going to feel pretty good for at least 2sec. while the
Epsom is in progress. If the handicap for the race
had to be made to-morrow none of these nags would
be on the mark they are.
* * * *
It is more likely the Metropolitan Handi-
cap run at Randwick on Monday will be won by
something unthought of than that the same thing wiil
happen rin the Epsom. Some of the prads engaged
are going well. Prince Bardolph is one ; Cagou, who
has already won the race, showed such good form at
Rosehill that he cannot be overlooked. William the
Silent has had so much rest to have a leg repaired
that he may not get on to the course as satisfied with
himself as he should be. It is a race that has in-
. finite possibilities, and The Bulletin merely re-
marks that Prince Bardolph and Cyklon and Kings-
burgh are in it, and that the punter who happens to
get on to the winner will have a lot more luck than
if he backed something else. The best way to pick
the Metrop. is to toss the names of the likely-looking
into a hat, draw one out, back it for eighteen-pence,
and hurriedly take refuge from temptation in the
grandstand, where the worst can be waited for with
confidence.
When this page was hurrying to press
there was much wonderment about how many horses
would get to the post at the A.J.C. meeting with four
legs or without something wrong with their innards.
There has been much mystery. Woorak was disin-
clined lately to finish his breakfast, and Ikey was
ready for a day or two to do business on that basis,
but as the chestnut flier hopped over a mile on Tues-
day in “41J” it seemed that he was feeling reason-
ably well. Polycrates had the brand of suspicion
dangling to his tail, and on Monday and Tuesday
took things very easy. And Costello, having col-
lided with some timber last week, was missing on
Tuesday from the tracks. Garlin has undoubtedly
got a leg, but so far as could be seen early in the
week he didn’t appear to know it. And on top of
these incidents the weather prophets have beer, lugu-
briously talking about copious rain at the end of
the week. A softer track for the Epsom would be
joyful for some owners, but only Ikey knows what
the backers of Woorak would do- if they saw him
going out with lOst. 41b. to run in mud. Most of
them would wave a sad farewell to their quids to
start with, anyhow. The nag on which Luck perches
behind the jockey in this year’s Epsom is going to
land the bacon.
* * * *
There was a whole heap of merit attached
to Lady Minnie’s success in Hawkesbury Spring Han-
dicap on Saturday. As the distance, li furlongs, was
considered beyond her, particularly as she had tired
to nothing at the close of the recent Tattersall's
Spring Handicap, mile and a quarter, won by Fan-
tarie, Ikey became absolutely reckless and offered to
lay B’s. The mare slipped away from the bunch
going out of the straight, and was not caught until
50yds. from home. It was Fantarie, the favorite,
who ranged alongside; but the mare stuck to him
and had her head in front at the post. The incident
revealed a gameness in the lady hitherto unsus-
pected. Minnie lost nothing by having Foley to
assist in keeping her together. There were some
Metrop. candidates behind the pair, but for all the
chance they have at Randwick they might as well
be kept in their stalls.
* * * *
Sydian, one of Baronet Cooper’s imports,
won his first Australian race on Saturday. It was
not the first race he had been expected to win, and
it wasn’t much of a race,-anyhow. At one time the
Rowley Mile at the ’Awkesbury was regarded as an
Epsom trial, but it was not that last week. With
7st. 131 b. aboard Sydian hopped away at the start
and beat a-moderate to third-rate field in “40J.” In
the Epsom Bombita has 7st. 91b., in the Metropoli-
tan 7st.. 61b., and an entirely different class to battle
with. On the Hawkesbury running the chances of
Inia and La Balfour in the big races at Randwick
look about the same as the Hun’s hopes of salvation.
Sydian won in the only way he apparently likes to
do it —with no other nag interfering.
“Carfax”: It is a national misfortune
that William the Silent happens to be dumb. A
speech from William in the present crisis would be
as important to Australian punters as orations from
various other Bills. William was lame after the
Rosehill meeting, and since then various stories about
him have been authorised in reference to the Metro-
politan Handicap. Also he has been swimming.
William seems unlucky. Something of the same kind
occurred to him just before last Caulfield Cup. He
went swimming then, too, and wasn’t going to start.
But he did start and ran a great second to Levando
in the fastest time for the event. Swimming may
be good for William.
* * * *
The Sydney tracks have been as hard as
flint these last few weeks, and Victorian trainers
are wondering how many of their horses are going
to pull through the A.J.C. meeting without crutches.
The people behind the Melbourne Cup fav-
orite, won’t risk it, so he has been sent south to
get something softer for his feet than can be secured
north of the Murray. Lingle is apparently very well.
He is not being hurried in his preparation, which
is at least something for horse and backers to be
grateful for. But the habit of winning races on the
training track and losing them when there is cash
at the end seems likely to last for more than another
season. Heaven knows what the cost of it is to
owners and the public, but it must be something
fairly solid.
* * * *
It isn’t often that E. A. Connolly, the
Melbourne trainer, ventures far from his own dis-
trict with a team of “good things,” everything of
Connolly’s being popularly suspected of goodness.
But he crossed over to Sydney a month ago in charge
of Costello, Meroo and Grand Fleet, and his Mel-
bourne followers are anxiously awaiting develop-
ments. Up to time of writing two of the three
aforesaid had been backed down to 5 to 2 for races
in which they ran badly. Costello and Meroo may
assert themselves at Randwick, but it looks as though
Ilcey Mo has lost some of his respect for the English
horse, at least.
AT FLEMINGTON.
0.K.” : The gees that went from Mel-
bourne with designs oil the A.J.C. meeting seem to
have lost many of their friends of a month ago. They
went across to complete their preparations, and the
awful hardness of the tracks has given some of them
pause and knocked others clean out. At time of
writing the hopes of Victoria are clinging desperately
to Costello for the Epsom, and Bucklaw is said to
be a promising Derby colt.
Bob Ellis, an old-time jockey who had a
big innings when James White’s Kirkham stable was
gathering up the plums, weighed out for the Final
Handicap lately. He won the A.J.C. and V.R.C.
Derbies on Nordenfeldt, the A.J.C. St. Leger on
Melos, the Ascot Vale Stakes on Uralla and Penance,
and ihe.Maribyrnong Plate bn lolanthe. Notwith-
standing all his Wins; Bobby went on taking ordinary
size in hats.
* * * - *
The September blood stock sales in Eng-
land realised 86,863 guineas, or £36,000 more
than in 1915, the average per nag rising from 196
guineas to 302. A filly by Spearmint topped the
list at £4200. -Of course it is argued that the prad
buyers are betting on an early peace. At the 1913
sales £225,000 was extracted from hopeful pur-
chasers ; and if buyers didn’t know then (as evi-
dently they didn’t) when war was going to start,
they are probably not much better informed now
about when it is going to stop.
* *
Kitchener was fond of a mount on a race-
horse on big occasions. At the Delhi Durbar, on
King Edward’s coronation, he rode the American-bred
Democrat, which as h*tWo-year-old had pretty well
swept the board IS England for Lord William Beres-
ford. At King George’s coronation procession in
London he rode Moit'aa, the Maorilander which won a
Liverpool Grand National for Spencer Gollan, and
was sold by him to King Edward. The Calcutta
statue of Kitchener shows him astride of Democrat.
There were 103 applicants, one of the
number being a woman, for the recently-vacant posi-
tion of V.R.C. stipendiary steward —-or stewardess.
The choice fell on a Sunbury man, W. H. Johnston,
a relation of the County Court Judge. He used to
be an amateur rider, one of his mounts being the
well-remembered mare Phyllis. The screw is £7OO
a year.
* * * •*
The solemn people who want to “put
down gambling'” might find some exciting occupation
in France just now. Especially among the Tommies.
When a regiment is going into action the men form
groups, and each group puts its cash belongings into
a pool. The money is left behind in the care of
someone who doesn’t happen to be fighting, and after
the battle is split up among the survivors. This is a
surer way of making money than backing favorites,
for you draw a dividend every time you ask for it.
The heavyweights had a night out at
Sydney Stadium- on Saturday, Les O’Donnell and
Tom McMahon, of U.S.A., providing the gore. There
was plenty of it, for early in the proceedings Thomas
commenced to bleed copiously. He didn’t look much
of a boxer at the start, and had frequent collisions
with a straight left. But he had a powerful wallop,
and when he started to deliver it on O’Donnell s
diaphragm the receiver felt like the walls of Jeru-
salem when Marcus Superbus or someone dashed
forward with a battering-ram. Les stood these
bashes with the fortitude of a conscientious objector
until he couldn’t stand them any more, and then he
commenced to peter out. He was all to loo’ard by
the tenth collision. The Yank then obligingly
“handed over a swipe on the ear, and O’Donnell’s
agony was over.
* *■ * *
N. S. Wales pug Jack Darcy had a fur-
ther argument with the Speck’s best heavyweight,
Court Oakes, at Hobart the other night, and it
wasn’t long before streams of gore added to the
landscape that touch of realism which always de-
lights the anaemic onlooker. Oakes stopped some-
thing sudden in the second round, and rested for
nine. Thenceforth he was mostly scattered about the
floor in more or less untidy attitudes. After 10
weary rounds of sloganbash he ran up against one
that caused him to lose all further interest.
* * * *
Fred Kay and' Art Magirl exchanged
pleasantries at Melbourne on Saturday night. Kay
had built up lOst. 131 b. to meet the broadside of
list. 2Jib. The extra cargo slowed him down. For
eight rounds he performed his elusive act and Magirl
bashed vigorously at the enemy’s last-known address.
Then the Yank took a derry, forced his attentions
on the wanderer’s head and body and endeavored to
administer the anaesthetic at close quarters. Kay
stuck out the 20 rounds and just missed first place.
* * * *
There seems little doubt that Freddy
Welsh is the topnotch performer among the world’s
lightweights. His last two fights suggest that the
young man had been foxing. For instance, in a pre-
vious bout with Benny Leonard it looked almost a
certainty that the Hebrew was Welsh’s master, and
their coming together again put a big supply of cash
into the ticket office. Apparently that is what the
guileless Welsh had been waiting for. But he made
it as plain as a dollar that Leonard was not in the
same class. Yankee-paper reports of the conflict
show that Welsh was on top all the way. Leonard’s
Claim to be looked on as a possible winner of the
championship fell like the price of ice in winter.
* * * *
The late B. R. Wise was at Rugby when
he became notable amongst athletes. His first feat
in England was to win the School Distance Diving
•Competition in 1873, his brother being second. In
1876 he developed first-class ability as a runner and
next year won the mile in 4min. 44sec., the half-mile
on the flat and the half-mile over hurdles. He
then went to Oxford, and in the Pembroke College
Strangers’ Race, with 180 yards start, he won the
mile easily in 4min. 26sec. In 1878 he was hard at
work for a University prize, which he ultimately
gained, and had to train at the same time for the
annual sports. That time he overdid it and had to
lay up for nearly four months. In 1879 with 100 yards
start he won the three miles handicap at Cambridge.
C. N. Jackson, of Hertford College, had Wise nomi-
nated to compete for Oxford against Cambridge in
the Inter-University Sports. He started for the mile
race ‘and, making all the running, won by four yards
in 4min. 34 4-ssec. On the following Monday he
started for the One Mile Amateur Championship of
England, and beat 11. C. Jenkins and C. J. Johnstone,
winning easily by 10 yards in 4min. 29sec. In the
following season he won the half-mile at his own
college sports, and also the One Mile Race at the
University Sports, leading from start to finish and
winning in 4min. 26see. He also ran against Cam-
bridge, and was successful in the mile race, time
4min. 28 4-ssec. In 1881 he again competed for
the Amateur Mile Championship of England, and
this time was opposed by the celebrated W. G.
George, who afterwards went to America and
defeated Myers. Several others started, but the
finish was left to Wise and Georg'e, the Australian
winning easily by five yards in 4min. 24 2-ssee.
This was his last and certainly his best performance.
Mr. Wise was also a good cricketer and played for
his college eleven in 1880.
* # * •
Amateur athletics in Sydney owed some-
thing to the late Bernard R. Wise. Concealed in
knickerbockers, boots and stockings, Wise was among
“the pack” which followed a trail laid by Dick
Coombes and' J. Martin for the N.S.W. first cross-
country championship in ’B9. Alas, many of those
who started in that event are frisking round in
another sphere. Wise’s sympathies were always with
amateur athletics, and his advice was behind many
of the steps taken to put the A.A.A. on its feet.
• * • *
W. P. O’Neill’s success in the 10-mile
cross-country race the other day dispelled all doubts
about his right to be labelled Victoria’s distance
champion of the season, even though the champion-
ship for that distance has bee,n in the ice-chest since
Wilhelm broke loose. O’Neill spent 65min. 43sec.
of his life on the journey, and had a quarter of a
mile to spare at the finish.
Another of England’s old-time cricketers
has just been stumped—Alfred Lubbock, one of four
brothers who did things with bat and ball. He was
71. Half a century ago he hit up a century for an
English team against Middlesex, IV. G. Grace, then a
boy of 17, assisting with 75. In the following month
he put 107 on the slate for the Gentlemen against the
Players. Another Cold Land cricketer to go is
Kenneth Hutchings, but it was a shell that ended
him. Hutchings was a remarkably fine bat. He was
in Australia with Jones’s Eleven of 1907-8, and his
29 innings showed an average of 34.03 runs. His 126
in the second test, played at Melbourne, was the
greatest individual accumulation of runs made by an
Englishman in tests during the tour. Hutchings was
34. He went to the Front as a ranker and earned a
star.
* * * *
Norman Broughton, killed in France, was
a fine athlete. After leaving Sydney Grammar he
shifted to the ’Varsity, and there took the “blue”
at football and cricket. He had only had 28 years
of life when he crossed the line.
* * * *
Most of those Australian cyclists who are
pursuing the elusive dollar in Yankeeland have so
dug themselves into America that their claims to be
regarded as Cornstalks are beginning to evaporate.
McNamara, Alf Grenda, J. Clark and E. Pyo have
achieved families as well as currency, and Clark has
annexed a pub as a side-line.. As it will be a few
weeks before a crust can be captured in Australia
by professional wheeling, these ex-Australians _ are
not likely to hurry back to look for what isn’t
available.
* * * *
W. Abotomey put up the next-to-impos-
sible in winning City Tatt.’s (Sydney) billiard tour-
nament last week. Nobody imagined that he had
better than Buckley's chance when the handicapper
isolated him on the “600-behind” mark; but by
mixing grit and high-class play he defeated D.
Totten (received 85) in the final and took the dross.
Abotomey gets 800 start in 4500 from Frank Smith
in a match at Sydney this week. Whoever runs out
first overtakes £ 50.
* * * *
Ben Thoroug'hgobd, who got a well-bulged
purse pushed into his hands at Newcastle on Satur-
day, has been dabbling his oar in N.S.W. water for
more than half of his 47 years. In “best boats”
Ben has had some fine successes, two of the best
against Fogwell and Whelch (1908) ; but it was in
the more-recently-fashionable “heavy boats” that he
excelled. When Big Ben, in a 22-footer, went after
the Australian championship he was a certain winner.
In winning the Australian Rules goal-
kicking championship at Sydney on Saturday, Jim
Ashley (Balmain) gave a glimpse of that booting
which won him many cheers last season in S. Aus.
He sent the bladder on a journey of 63yds., the
nearest effort to this being 61yds. 7in. by J. Taylor.
The League “challenge final,” decided the same
afternoon, was a bitter struggle, in which Padding-
ton defeated Balmain by 32 points to 14. As Pad-
dington also defeated Balmain in the “first” final the
previous week-end by 50 to 22 there’s not much
doubt about the pennant.
* * * *
White Wings were unfurled on Sydney
Harbor for the first time this season on Saturday,
when the Flying Squadron and Sailing Club
—which have the same fleet —held a combined race.
There were two heats and a final, over the usual
triangular course. Mississippi in the first scramble
looked like being home and dry before the others
reached half-way, but did so badly near Shark
Island that her chance disappeared. A like perform-
ance in the final ended this speedy craft’s
hopes. Rosetta romped away with both the second
heat and the final, again proving what a fine hard-
weather craft she is. H. Collins, a former dinghy
skipper, landed Sunny South into second place in
the second heat. But, though beaten this time, the
Coonland craft should be heard from later.
* * * *
Few of Adelaide’s lost men will be more
missed than “Pepper” McKail, dead in France. He
was a prominent North Adelaide footballer after
leaving St. Peter’s School, where he had captained
both football and cricket teams.
N.S.W. Fisheries Department lias rolled
back its sleeves in an effort to keep trout-fishing
from petering out. This year Prospect hatchery
received 274,350 trout eggs, and the distributions
total 89,000 —Southern 46,200, Northern 19,400,
Western 16,000, North Coast 1400, hatchery 6000.
Last season there was a welcome slump in trout-
murdering, thanks chiefly to the.call of serious busi-
ness with Johnny Turk and Wilhelm. Another
“dead” season will give the trout youngster a chance
and make it unlikely that the rivers can be fished,
out for many years.
“W.A.”: The crowd was rushing witli
cash to the bookies when an able-bodied youth
knocked against an old chap and bowled him over
in the dust. The ancient picked himself up and
rose to heights of eloquence. “You etcetera,” he
yelled, “I’ll be even with you yet! I’ll vote ‘yes'
at the referendum.”
Mrs. Henrietta Anne Foott, who died
a few days ago at Woollahra (Sydney),
aged 94, arrived in 1853 with her husband
and spent many years pioneering ’way back.
She was the author of a book, “Sketches
of Life in the Bush,” published in Sydney
in IS7B. Another of the Foott family,
Mary Hannay, author of “Where the Peli-
can Builds” and other poems, assisted the
Rev. J. S. Hassell with his now-valuable
book, “In Old Australia.”


YOU SHOULD LEARN
"HOW” TO BOX
learn how to defend yourself. Such a knowledge will never be a burden
to you, but in times of need will prove your best friend and protector.
No man knows the day or the hour when he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he will have to defend himself against
some bully or ruffian.
Are you capable of taking care of yourself in such an emergency? If not,
k NOW is the time to learn the art of scientific boxing.
I Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My boxing instructions are very thorough—
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under my per-
sonal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and are
cramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
AVrite your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and I will send you by
return mail my interesting booklet “SCIENTIFIC
BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which tells all about
my methods, terms, etc. Please send three penny
stamps for postage.
mm
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BAKER
539 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
OZETTI
CIGARETTES
(Egyptian).
i-
I can highly recommend
“OZETTI” to all smokers
.who appreciate a really high-
grade Egyptian cigarette.
They are fairly large in size
(see illustration), and are
mild and most delightful in
flavor.
Manufactured by the
Ardath Tobacco Co., of
London.
Owing to their great popu-
larity I have a very exten-
sive sale for these cigar-
ettes. I am therefore
indenting them in very large
quantities, which enables me
to sell them at a price con-
siderably below what they
were originally sold for.
Note the reduction.
Packed in Boxes of 50.
Usual Price. Reduced Price.
10/- per 100. 6/- per 100.
Postage on 100: N.S.W., 6d.;
Other States, Bd.
Write for a copy of my Illustrated Catalog
of Tobaccos, Pipes, Cigars, Cigarettes, etc.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Actual Size.
H H
' 1 i T . TJ
rjrrrk:
SHELt
BENZINE
IHELL-
•NZINE-
Sheu.
JEmIMC
I —I —i
SHELL
M
Easy-Chai
Comfort
theßoad
The Motorcycle wit _
theCracffe SpringFrai
with
me
a
k
Cf
&
nr
Catalogue with pleasure
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. C 5 Russell St., Melbourne
-776'
SCHUTE, BELL, 4 Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YOU GET THE BEST
Style, the Best Leathers, the Best
Workmanship, and the Best Service in
RIGNEY SHOES.
We illustrate a Choice, All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike “perfect.” Also in
Derby.
The famous Paris last. Patents or Tans.
Price - 37|6
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
m
.
mm
m
*-''■ *s*s
s®s
mmi
xy p r*
s£§l
f^-i:
sm.
afs
£££
1
ifg
gjf
*4&
'•pr/Stf-
.l
>;
#8
a*®
JV^’’..
aes
rt rxm*
mmi
My*
r m
.
M
\
f'i
S'
*?*s
■' ' V<2V
lawriSi
\;J?vj
•!;’-?'-A
v ” >.■
:»P*fe.
-V
p; ;V'/'v --r--;..
.-v
• • : - -•••/• ! ;•
•' - .; \ ’ ' ' • •■.
WM
wB/m
mm
i ':,
l(A\u
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 2/6 bottle
J-l
sr
7i
Uuo
I wONmHq
T 6
OXFORDS CAMBRICS ZEPHYRS
in which it is obtainable, by reason of their Beautiful Quality and Exclusive Patterns,
meet every demand as to Service and Style
“Veribest” Shirts may be made to measure at 1/- extra cost.
POST YOUR ORDER-
-WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
Lincoln Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.,
‘Specialists in Outfitting by Mail.’
244=254 Flinders Street
MELBOURNE.
(mjjjsoj)
9j9
siaiuc
“Y’erihest” Shirtings
are the Best that
money can buy. Every
Pattern is Guaranteed
to come through the
Wash Unharmed, and
to give Satisfaction in
Wear.
“Veribest’- Shirts are
produced in our own
Workrooms. AVc are,
therefore, personally
responsible for each
garment.
“Veribest” Cutting and
Making are in a Class
of their own.
“Veribest” Value, con-
sidering Quality and
Price, is the Highest
obtainable.
THE “LOUNGE” STYLE
is the one illustrated here. With its Soft
Fronts and Soft Double Cuffs it offers the
maximum of Ease in Wear, while the


Th
Choose the "Critic”
—it is a fine-looking boot built
on a medium English last, and
like all Macnaught boots is
“made well to wear well.”
All Patent Leather or
Tan Willow Calf.
30/-
We Pay Postage.
1
iiMCMU
For Distinctive Footxvear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
VS/S/S
vwsvs?
|T ’rn, N
y Users
r of Benzine Engines
should know that it
really is a fact that the ’
, fuel saving made them by
an I H C Gaso - Kero En- V
gine will during its life, and at 1
present prices for benzine and!
kerosepe. amount to more than l
enough to pay for the entire
\ cost of the /H C Engine, j
International Harvester Co. of Ans. Ply. Ltd.
Brisbane—Sydney—Melbourne- j
Adelaide Perth
Launceston
CELEBRATED
23
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Coras Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young —hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sa’nsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley. Worando Buildings. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane. [1
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd.. Market Street. Sydney
FREE
SAMPLE
BOTTLE
Dr. Parker s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy.
WONDERFUL RECOVERY TO HEALTH
AND STRENGTH.
I suffered terrible agony from Uric Acid
Poisoning. All the joints were swollen, stif-
fened and inflamed, and were becoming dis-
torted. My head ached incessantly ; I suffered
from dry retching. DR. PARKER’S GREAT
INDIAN RHEUMATIC REMEDY acted like
a charm. I am free from pain, my skin is
clear, and my appetite good. I shall recom-
mend your treatment to other sufferers. —
Yours gratefully, MABEL LYNKLATER,
68 West Street, North Sydney.
Write to-day for Free Sample and
Book (postage 3d.) to F. PARKER,
111 Daking House, Rawson Place,
Sydney.
I,L AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ai.d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Beading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
o
otted
Arrows Show/
lAGONAL
Course.of
A Year’s Collection
of so-called Strops
or one that will
last a lifetime ?
Evermore Stropper
This unique device reveals the Barber’s Secret —the trick of giving
the entire length of your Razor Blade that keen, silky Barber’s edge,
so eagerly sought after, but impossible to obtain with any other
Strop.
15/-,
With each pull, the Blade moves UP
and DOWN and the Strop moves
LATERALLY across the edge—a double
action with one stroke.
For Sale throughout Australasia.
15/-
ASK YOUR DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE IT.
If unable to procure, write Box 1003, G.P.0., Sydney, or Box 14
G.P.0., Auckland, N.Z.
*
Miles
Cheaper
and
Australian
JDO]
At Beck and Call
No test of tyre service could be more severe
than hire work. At the beck and call of every-
one the taxi-cab must traverse roads over which
the private motorist would hesitate to drive.
The following letter, then, tells a wonderful story
of the wearing qualities of
0
0
rR
Dear Sirs,
Adelaide Street,
Brisbane
We have much pleasure in informing you that
the Limousine Covers, 875 x 120, supplied by you, and
fitted to the wheels of one of our 6-cylinder Studebaker
cars, with rims size 875 x 105, have covered respec-
tively the following distances: 6,973 miles, 5,814 miles,
4,870 miles, 5,312 miles, thus proving that they are
entirely suitable for these cars, which weigh about
26 cwt., and have stood the severe test to which they
have been put viz., hire work.
We trust that the same good quality will be
obtained in future orders required by us. and we
can confidently recommend them for Hire Work.
TAXI-CAB CO. LTD.
H. Leslie Tooth, Manager
Barnet Glass Tt/res, 'M Ilea Cheaper ajid A astralian,
are sold at all Garage*
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
All States and New Zealand.
m
HODSWELL, CLARKE 8 CO
s l
1
LEEDS.
Locos, of all Types.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. GERMAN,
Engineer,
Ocean House, Moore St., Sydney
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Including Governors there are about 75
Knights in Australia. The great Griffith
is tue senior of them all, though there are
a number of older men in that branding
yard. Octogenarians who are knights are
Henry Stephen of Sydney 87, Arthur
Snowden (Vic.) 87, Edwin Smith (S.A.)
85, Philip Fysh (Tar.) 81, Justice
a’Beckett (Melb.) 80, J. R. Fairfax
(N.S.W.) 81, and Samuel McCaughey
(N.S.W.) 80.
One duchess of Toorak rolls up her expen-
sive sleeves and acts as scrub-ladv for the
Empire. It’s not brilliant scrubbing re-
garded from a trade standpoint; but the
private hirer of domestic labor couldn’t get
her for a fee of 100 guineas per half-day.
Of course such dear things honestly believe
they are “doing their bit,” and they would
merely frown if you told them that under
real national organisation the citizen would
be put on the job that he (or she) could do
best.
Some of the white-handed patriotic
workers engaged on light honorary duties
are more amusing than the current vaude-
ville shows. They will tell you “the work
nearly kills us”; but let a willing volunteer
who hasn’t dukes in her family-tree try to
come in and she will be beaten back like
the Prussian Guard. There are probably
soldiers’ wives and mothers to be found who
would be very grateful to anybody who
would give them a hand with the youngsters
or the housework once in a while: also,
there is regular money to be earned for
patriotic funds in well-to-do households that
are short of help. But you don’t catch any
she-patriots fighting round that sort of
thing!
An Inspector-General has to take a more
or less intelligent interest in everything he
rakes with his eye. One night lan Hamilton
was inspecting the Electrical Engineers at
Hobart. When he arrived in one of the
searchlight emplacements he glanced about
him, cleared his throat and bent a piercing
gaze on a sapper. “Now, sapper, what would
you do if —er —supposing—er—supposing the
—er —light failed suddenly?” The mere sap-
per wasn’t half so overcome as he ought to
have been. “AVell, sir,” he replied smoothly,
“I’d try to get it going again.” “Yes, yes,”
said Hamilton, hastily searching himself
for something penetrating. “But, what
would you do to get it going again?”
“Well, sir. that would really depend
on what went wrong.” “Ahem ! Ahem !
Quite so, quite so.” said General lan hur-
riedly. “Er —that’s all I wanted to know” ;
and followed by his staff he hastened off to
complete his military education elsewhere.
“Marianne” : We still teach French from
German text-books, and at least one univer-
sity in Australia specifies a French grammar
compiled by a German, in which German
and not French nomenclature is employed
in dealing with verbs. English French is
bad enough, but German French just now
is bitter irony.
From the Office Curate :
Bishop Golding-Bird, of Kalgoorlie (WA.), who
has been giving this country the usual bad adver-
tisement by moaning in the London press about the
poverty and godlessness of his diocese (B. 14/9/’l6),
was 10 or 12 years ago a curate at All Saints’,
Margaret-street, London —one of the very “highest”
of fashionable churches in the West End, full of
chasubles and incense and other things that keep
Archgaiters Wright awake o’ nights. From there
Golding-Bird tried on his first ecclesiastical spats
as nominal Dean of the Falkland Islands—in reality,
a sort of pannikin boss over the chaplains of
English congregations in the Argentine, Chile and
Peru. As Anglicanism claims to be part of the
Catholic Church, it doesn’t appoint rival bishops in
Catholic countries or proselytise the Catholic popu-
lation, but only provides parsons for its own adhe-
rents. There being no British possession in the
lower half of South America, the bishop and dean
who look after Anglican stragglers halve to take
their titles from the Falklands. Bird was imported
in 1909 to Newcastle (N.S.W.) as dean of the
local cathedral. As a lot of the miners used to roll
up at his men’s services on Sunday afternoons for
want of something better to do on the day of gloom,
Bird began to fancy that he had a great influence
with them, and tried to interfere in the big coal
strike of a few years back, but was promptly told
by Peter Bowling that he was “a bumptious new-
ehum” and should mind his own business. He was
chosen to wear the gaiters at Kalgoorlie when that
see was formed in 1914. As to “J.F.H.’s” remarks
on establishing bankrupt bishoprics which have to
live on the cadge, pretty well every Australian
Anglican knows why there was such hurry to start
extra bishoprics in W.A. The idea was to make a
“province” with four sees, thus causing Perth, under
Anglican law in the Commonwealth, to become an
archbishopric; and the hurry was to get the title of
archbishop for Dr. Riley, of Perth, before the Pope
gave it to the R.C. Bishop Clune. After all the
scramble, Arcbgaiters Wright held up the scheme
for some months on a legal technicality, and “Rome”
got in first. Now two worried bishops—Trower at
Broome and Golding-Bird at Kalgoorlie—have to
keep the hat constantly circulating in an effort to
save their jerry-built sees from collapse.
IN THE OTHER MOTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whirring along the narrow road,
Our flier hooting close behind it,
The slow old “model” with its load
Rolled on and didn’t seemed to mind it.
A scrap of veil outside the hood
Signalled a welcome. AVas she pretty ?
I tried —as any traveller would —-
To see as we raced from the city.
Then as we passed them with a roar
I saw her face. Yes, pretty— very!
I wondered if we’d met before
And why her eyes were bright and merry.
I wished her car a turn of speed,
And longed to find it singing past us.
No luck ! We sizzled in the lead.
Off that straight road they’d never blast us.
They never caught us up. I looked
Behind and saw it take a side-road ;
My sentimental goose was cooked
AVhen we raced past them on the wide road.
All ways branch off. Mere speed and fuss
Are not the assets I can treasure
AA'hen Beauty loiters in a ’bus
And bids you woo her at your leisure.
N.s.w.
E. O’F.


MAXWELL
ROADSTER
£,290.
TOURING CAR
£.300.
——
r\
«• _ >' a
1916 MAXWELL High-priced-Car Features All Included for £3OO.
ELECTRIC STARTER AND ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
DEMOUNTABLE RIMS;
lIIGH-TENSION MAGNETO:
“ONE-MAN” KHAKI TOP.
NEW STREAM-LINE DESIGN.
DOUBLE VENTILATING WINDSHIELD.
(Clear Vision and Rainproof.)
Electric Horn.
Wider Front and Rear Seats.
Aluminium Transmission Housing.
Handsome Rounded Radiator and Hood.
Robe Rail, with Back of Front Seat Leather
Covered.
Linoleum-covered Running-boards and
Floor-boards.
Automatic Tell-tale Oil Gauge.
Heat-treated, Tested Steel Throughout.
Easy Hiding and Marvellous Flexibility.
Unusual Power on Hills and in Sand.
Ability to Hold the Road at High Speed.
Improved Instrument Board, with all Instru
ments set Flush.
EVERY FEATURE AND EVERY REFINEMENT OF CARS THAT SELL AT TWICE ITS PRICE.
BOWENS LIMITED, 276-8 Castlereag'h Street, Sydney.
Jeffery Quad pulling 2\ tons of pig iron tin ough mud up to the
JEFFERY QUAD
No Grade too Steep
No Road too Bad
No Sand too Deep.
Drives, Brakes and Steers on
all Four Wheels.
Will pull a trailer in addition
to carrying its own load.
As supplied to
WM. ARNOTT LTD.
ROBERT REID & CO. LTD.,
AUSTRALIAN AGRICULTURAL CO.,
DELEGATE MOTOR LORRY CO.,
and others.
CATALOGUES and FULL
PARTICULARS FROM
Bowens Limited,
276-8 Castlereagh St.,
... SYDNEY.
Also Agents for Jeffery “4” Pleasure tars
in 3-, 5- and 7-Passenger Models.
w
The QUAD has self=locking
differentials, which prevent
slippage of wheels and conse=
quent loss of power.
Jeffery Quad Chassis, showing accessibility of parts and fine clearance.


FISHERS PHOSPHERINE
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
Is appreciated by
All Who Use It
li Its Merit in Cases of H
Nervousness, Neuralgia,
Indigestion, Acidity,
Rheumatism, Backache and
Headache is proved by the
GRATEFUL TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Dear Sirs, —In a very few words—though volumes
may be written —1 wish to praise your wonderful
Phospherine. For nervous headaches and indigestion
1 find it a valuable remedy and most excellent for
rheumatism, (Mrs.) L. Middleton
This preparation has been manufactured by Fisher & Co. for
the past forty yean.
1-
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
per bottle, four times the quantity
26
CHEMISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,^
F. 137 P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
manj' times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or ivrite for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Bla:k Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid's Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at t/3 & 3, - per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St..
LONDON, Eng
Can be Obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
If any illustration appearing in Tin
Bulletin , takes your fancy, write to tlx
Manager, \Vho will quote you price for it.
m
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines many of our
COMPORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles —the
dippv pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, our
G.S.' panel with the short stuffing and leather points,
tile long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers,
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
[O any
in the
port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
How to Treat
Your Hair and
Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the- better. I do not -
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
3$
Photo: Wrather & Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any-
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it .will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it? —stimulant, and for this I
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. Give your
hair a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
WA
~ir
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old=fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered,
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove ih<> hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily,. and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
m
Waterproof
Balaclava Hoods
for wet weather.
Light weight, to cover
wool hood • • 3/6
Heavy weight ... 4/6
SEND ONE to YOUR BOY
Indudea wool hood 3; 6
or a Balaclava Cap 4/ 6
if he has none.
ROTHWELL’S LTD.,
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the centuries*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book' " CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Enfc
Insist on “ Singleton’s' —refuse all substitutes.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write- to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Tibs: Well meant, but verse halts and
nobbles.... W.-T.D.: Labored piece of weariness....
H. 8.: Not nearly up. .. .G.R.JI.: “Fantasy” no good.
... .Sinbad: Too slight this time. .. .Rob Roy: Sorry,
bat there’s no promise in it....5.C.: Is that all the
swagman had to tell ?... . Rushbush: They won’t do.
... .Massah K.: Slop-bump verse... .G.W.C.: Not
well done, ti e had all the matter of those yarns
months ago... . Poetieule: Commonplace. .. .Cathleen :
Roiled down, what does it amount to?....The Mug:
Dull stuff... .R.J.: Kitchener verse is still plentiful.
Can’t see how K. resembled Hampden, Drake or the
Pilgrim Fathers... .J.W.: You must be a misery
to yourself If- those lame puns are chronic. .. .M.L.:
The' Office Assassin is on -your track for rolling that
manuscript. Why do you take" such pains to make
it .impossible to read your copy ?'. ... Smirker:
Machine made.... Ruby: Empty as a beer-forsaken
cask in a drought. .. .R.A.S.: Hurled to Chaos and
old Night... .H.M.: “Damn” would have made as
good a final rhyme. ... S.R.: “The Fire” has points,
but too long-drawn... .F.W.: Pennyweight stuff....
T.S.Z.: “Footprints” no good. Handwriting still of
the maddening kind. Have no idea what your signa-
ture i5....P.M.: Toast and water.... Spider: Don’t
want parodies; but you ought to be able to give us
good verse.... U.P.C.: Wooden little yarn....
A.Y.G.C.: Hasn’t a pulse in it.... Reader of Shak-
espearian Critiques: Lofty style of humor, that....
Sighing Wooer: Bald imitation of “Den.”. .. .G.M.:
Fails in rhymes and scansion... .A.G.-J.: Do you
think in small flops like that? C.E.J.: One might
dc.... N.A.E.: Fair verse, but not interesting....
S.A.K.: “Victory” lame in its head and feet....
W.D.J.: Why try to steal another man’s fire and
mix it with mud?....P. Pete: Sorry; too rugged.
. ...8.5.: “Shoot cutting” is worth about four crisp
lines if there is-nothing more in it than you say... .
Delver: Faulty; and parodies aren’t in favor. We
can rarely stand more than one a year. And then
we are generally sorry afterwards.... Don Essen:
Stiff, artificial and bumpy.... The Bird: Nothing in
it.... Gerardv : Better., but not quite up.... lan:
Thin and tottery .... G.P.: “And so. the work I do
amounts to nil.” Well, you’re not a bad judge. .. .
Bill Bedsox: Idea too slight.... S.N.R.: No use....
Verse: Mild little moral verse with no force and bad
rhyme.... 8.5.: Doesn’t work. .. . S.D.: “Ashes” to
ashes.... Morison : Tender, ungrammatical and com-
monplace. .. .Anzae in London: Fair parody, but
parodies must carry an armor-plated sting to get
through.... Dry Bill: It bumps like a “tank” goirig
into action... .T.B. & C.: When Gordon wrote his fatal
jingle he never imagined what a < disease it might
become. . . .J.T.: Heavy going. .. . D.T.W.: Fact that
Kitchener is dead duly noted.... Milesian: We
couldn’t reprint even if 10 pretty girls came along
to milk cows. . . .Marranboy: Well meant, but it’s
doggerel all right. .. .J.K.J.: Prose in disordered
condition with one rhyme to seven lines doesn’t shout
for print.... A.C.: Not up. .. .C.J.C.: Look as if
they were written on a tramear. Or by one. . . .A.L.:
Aren’t there any stops at all in your language ?. . . .
. H. A. -Longman: Rceived; thanks. ...Essanay:
Thanks; same to y0u.... George G.: But how long
would it take to build your great dam, and what
about the cost?... .G.A.H.: We had our say on the
subject in B. 29/6/’l6. .. .H.C.: A whiskered chest-
nut....W.H. : A tasty pint; we’ll take a quart of
the same brew next time.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Chas R. (Q.): Unexciting art.. ..Phil C.: Not up
to standard. . . .W.li.: Very black and forbidding.
.. . .Robert G.: Not useable. .. .C.R.R.: Labored. .. .
Francis L.: It’s a good “gag,” anyhow. And good
gags are rarer than good drawings. .. .F.C. : Weary
of those Willies. . . .R.C.: Too obvious. . ..Iv.Gf.:
AVretchedly bad drawing and a sad waste of board.
11l spite of Tennyson there are disadvan-
tages in the name of De Vere. One of the
family, a Fitzroy rnilk-o, was married lately ;
and because; a friend wasn’t permitted the
honor of being best-man to a De Vere, ill-
feeling sprang up which ended in the De
Vere being fined 20s. for pluggin’ the other
bloke. We have a lot to blame our fathers
for.
“Pint Pot”: George Dibbs is not the only
Australian public man who has been mis-
taken for one of his own employees (B.
14/9/M6). Judge Fitzhardinge whenever
possible gets into his oldest clothes and
works in his orchard at Pennant Hills
(N.S.W.). A traveller humping Matilda
hailed him across the fence one day, and
taking him for a gardener asked him. “Any
chance of a bit of tucker'?” “Oh, I think
so,” said the Judge, “go up to the house
and ask the missus.” A while later the
traveller reappeared, and holding up a \tell-
filled bag called out, “You must have a
pretty fair thing on here, mate; the old
girl’s a good sort. Been with her long?”
“Yes,” said the Judge meditatively, “a good
while now. She’s not a bad sort.”
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”
Another of the many buildings erected by Lachlan
Macquarie 100 years or more ago is in the hands
of the destroyers. In its earliest days'it was the
residence and office of the “Secretary to the Gover-
nor” ; later it became the Colonial Secretary’s Office;
yet later it was the headquarters of the Public In-
struction Pep* irtment. Its first occupant was pro-
bably .1. T. Campbell, picked up by Macquarie at
Capetown, and on the recommendation of the ; Gover-
nor there appointed Secretary. Subsequently he
became one of the founders of the Bank
of N. S. Wales, which celebrates;: its cen-
tenary next year. Following Campbell, at
some distance —Major Goulburn in between—
was Alexander Macleay, succeeded by Edward Deas
Thomson, who held the post until Responsible Gov-
ernment made the Colonial Secretary a political
office with a portfolio. Colonial Secretaries from
Stuart Alexander Donaldson down to Henry Parke*
had their dens there until the new buildings on the
Macquarie-street corner were raised. In front of the
old building, before the erection of the present
Education Buildings in Bridge-street, were two huge
Moreton Bay figs. These in long years ago were
prepared for the axe, when old Jock Robertson came
along and in lurid language threatened the life of
the man if a limb of the tree were disturbed. But
when Jock was dead and Labor came to power, the
ancient trees were axed at a cost of ,L9O. and the
Wade Libs, made the matter one of their “texts”
against the Government.


m
' 3
arcaroite
»Jr
Sfffl
%s>’V
IromTahs 6/Pfloffinnn.
'T'HIS charming selection perhaps not intrinsically a very
A great composition —has spread the sweetness of its
haunting strains over the whole world. It possesses a depth
of feeling so elusive that frequently the finer effects are
lost. In its execution the expression is its all.
With a Beale Player-piano you will
find that it is not at all hard to play
music with characteristics similar to
the “Barcarolle.” It is an instrument
essentially responsive to one’s best
musical thoughts, and is so sympa-
thetic that complete, soui-satislying
rendition becomes almost instinctive.
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
232 KING ST., NEWTOWN
4jeal
i
o
e
Factories:
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
And at Bathurst, Orange. Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, W agga. Victoria * Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart.
Maples, Launceston South Australia: John Evans Ltd. Adelaide. Queensland: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane. Kent Street, Maryborough.
Flinders Street, Townsville. Rockhampton. Sydney Street, Mackay. Cairns.


Shipping:.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN I>,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin«s-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY 'J
BRISBANE
ROCK HAMPTON
(Ft. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
tin's and other
Queensland ports)..
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 30.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oit. 4.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 7.
C'OOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Oct. 11.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 14.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for r
S.A.andW.A.ports) J
SOUTH.
CIOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 7.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capita] and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Australian j)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1916) .. £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
HEAD OT'FIOE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Mark Sihcldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lybagiit, Esq. ; George F.
Tomian, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Brandies throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. ■ .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager — AV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking (Jo.
of Sydney, [united.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1.875,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses. M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq.; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. • • • • 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. •• •• 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
grants drafts
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking busineea.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), lUKOTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MOANA, 12th October. *MAITAI, 9th November.
■"■Connecting Steamers leave Sydney—sth October, 2nd November.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU, ■
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America —
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Winter T
Fiji
Levuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa
Apia.,
Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something Unique in
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, RHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
i
BANK OF NFW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,500,000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9,675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.l).
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, (J.M.U., iU.E.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
m
JBattk* Australia
SYDNEY'. |
for pe a n .i General Banking Business p^SS*.
Cities and Towns of Australia, London* Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts diawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued ti any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at g°/
per annum w /°
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON' MILLER. Governor
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Kczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
has been the remedy for
Eruptions
Pimples
Rsdness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rooea
Sulpholineis prepared bv the great Skin Specialists,
J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Bedford Laboratories, London,
S E England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly remove* the effects of Sunccorch^
ra
At Last
A dentrifice that
not only cleans but
purifies —goes to
the root of tooth
evils and elimin-
ates them.
alox
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
The success of Calox lies in the Oxygen,
which there’s no holding when it is re-
leased by moisture. It penetrates every
recess, routing out all germ and decay;
better and cleaner teeth follow the use or
CALOX, THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER.
All Chemists, Drapers, Fancy-
Goods Stores and Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors: —
GEO . WILLS & CO. LTD.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Oct. 20 and Nov. 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MORIALTA, Sept. 30.
PARINGA, Oct. 7.
RUPARA, Oct. 14.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIUiIj & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
I-lOBAUT AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—c ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SA M O A-H ONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
OCT. 4, OCT. 25, NOV. 15, DEC. 6.
\pply : — O CE A NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
.urge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Jommodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
3IRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
VLD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
|“H£ North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade' regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFE S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
•to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
here connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
iate liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
i-amer. ,iIC Bs. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
in steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply: —
iOOKING OFFICE, 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
I .S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
r!s.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. Afte
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the
particulars on application, lor dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHIIP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


\
S
Vi
S
Begone -
Dm^eiyy^lfousework
Drudgery flies out the window when you
get an O-Cedar Polish-Mop.
* particularly the drudgery of dusting, cleaning and
polishing the hearth and a hardwood floor by get-
ting down on your hands and knees.
And away goes the drudgery of cleaning, polishing
and dusting in those hard-to-get-at places.
<X§feM°p
[Registered in principal countries]
brings positive joy because it ends drudgery and
makes cleaning and polishing a pleasant task; you
dust, clean and polish all at one time and without
stooping, bending or hard rubbing.
The O-Cedar Polish-Mop is heavily padded
to prevent scratching or marring furniture.
It is easily cleaned by washing and then
renewed with a few drops of the world-
famous O-Cedar Polish.
Try and Test It Today
Buy the O-Cedar Polish-Mop from any
leading dealer. Try and test it on your
work, in your own home. You will be
more than delighted with it —just as are
more than two million other housewives.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples
and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: 'Ocedar’
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
m
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
m
No. 304 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from |-inch to
lf-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (St MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct
stocks and si
ing machines.
One to fit
pipe-threading
needs.
die-
crew-
your
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P.0., Melbourne, Vie,
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[i
THE “DADDY” OF THEM ALL.
k\
w
x\
Hundreds of shavers who have tried no end of so-called Safety Razors
declare that
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR
is the “daddy” of all shaving instruments. Never a blade was made
to equal it. Requires but little stropping, shaves in a jiffy and in one
act of lathering.
PRICE 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 307-
All the above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cylinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
m
Cai 11 e Five-
Speed Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
Caille Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric-
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-Cycle,
4-Cylinder.
Caille 8-h.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
MALTED
-MILK
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,'
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never
becomes stale or loses 1
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made]
in a moment, any-J
where. Only water/
is needed. In hot climates it is 4
invaluable.
The NEW
EDISON
pleases the music-lover
Here is the only sound-
reproducing: instrument
that pleases the most
critical of music-loving:
people.
The tone is perfect,
natural, clear, sweet and
true; the original music
is positively re-created,
overtones and all.
Every defect of the past
has been overcome in
The NEW EDISON, and
you should not purchase
any musical instrument
—piano or other kind —
until you have learnt
about this wonderful in-
strument.
Descriptive catalog, post
free, from
m
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street,. Sydney, N.S.W.
Used the
World Over
m.
3
MOTOR
...CARS
3
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AIIABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and it 6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


“A contented mind is a continual feast” —you get
both when vou drink Kartell's Brandy. There are
no better judges than Britons, and they decide in
favor of Martell’s every time. From George I. to
George V. Kartell’s has been supreme—not only the
favorite in England but in France as well. It is
superior for social purposes, and being rich in the
higher ethers is also unequalled in cases of sick-
ness.
KARTELL’S BRANDY.
Fine Old Cognac. Dates from 1715. [1
ESTABLISHED 1874-
0
r FOR
COUGHS.
miridqes
UgingToiiie
{
'i
FOR
COLDS,
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND.
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
vou ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—“Calihg”—to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can rest easy after
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.” ,
For 30 years California Syrup of bigs
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else. >(
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig
—California Syrup of Figs—which has ful
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles
of two sizes, Is. lsd. and Is. 9d.
THINNESS IS DANGEROUS.
EMINENT SPECIALIST TELLS HOW
THIN PEOPLE MAY PUT ON FLESH
AND BECOME STRONG, PLUMP AND
HEALTHY.
Thinness is unnatural and dangerous. It
is not necessarily the cause of consumption,
indigestion, liver or catarrhal trouble; but in
nearly every instance it is an indication that
something is radically wrong. Very thin
people may feel that they are perfectly well;
but after thirty years of active experience I
can truly say that I have never seen an
extremely thin man or woman who was really
healthy. Thin people are thin because they
do not assimilate their food properly. They
may eat heartily, but their food does uot
make flesh, simply because the assimilative
organs are lacking in nerve force. This is
why thin people are so often nervous, sleep-
less, and become addicted to the use of drugs.
To supply this nerve force a nerve food must
be taken, and I have had remarkable results
in nearly every case from the use of a tonic
nerve-builder which contains no harmful
drugs, consisting of ioz. Tincture of Carda-
moms Compound, 8.P., 2oz. Salrado Com-
pound, 3oz. Elixir Simplex, and enough
water to fill an Boz. bottle. One to two
tablespoonfuls should be taken before each
meal, or whenever excessive fatigue or depres-
sion is felt. Any chemist can readily prepare
this formula, and as it is widely recognised
for its unusual efficacy many chemists now
keep it in stock ready for use under the name
of Salrado Tonic. The increase in weight
following the use of this tonic is remarkable,
the nervousness, sleeplessness and other
unnatural symptoms all disappear; dull eyes
become bright and pale cheeks glow with the
bloom of perfect health. —A. E. M. —Advt.
DAIMLER
Motor Carriages
Commercial Vehicles ~
Agricultural Tractors
th. DAIMLER COMPANY in
COVENTRY, ENGIAN£>.
m
m
IN BANANA LAND
Premier Ryan recently said there was
“so much money lying in the English banks
that the directors do not know how to get
rid of it.” And Ryan apparently reckoned
from this that anybody who looked like a
borrower was simply chased. As a matter
of cold fact, there is a lot of money in Eng-
lish banks, and that is so simply because
investors are not lending. If he wants con-
firmation he’d better ask Holman.
According to family records, John
Connolly, the grand old man of Gayndah,
has just climbed into his second century.
John has put in 64 years in Australia, and
has been, by turn, storekeeper, station-
owner, copper dealer, clerk of the Shire,
J.P., returning-oflicer and mayor of the
town. He wrestled with the blacks in the
early days, but he now devotes his time to
chopping wnod and wrestling with the
climate.
So much as 50 years ago Bananaland was
paralysed by a strike. About 100 navvies
came down from Helidon, attempted to
broach the commissariat stores in Brisbane
and created a small riot. A Courier reprint
throws light on the rumpus:—
It has been found that members of the so-called
unemployed recently rioting in Brisbane and Ipswich
are persons possessed of property or other means,
placing them above the need of obtaining aid from
the Government. Perhaps this fact will account for
so many being sticklers for high wages. One indi-
vidual seeking relief work was found'to own nearly
half a street in Fortitude Valley.
Fat has been up to every form of villainy
in his day. Here we see him rioting for
higher wages while drawing rents from
streets of houses. But luckily there was a
paper called the Courier to show him up!
The luck of a Chow ! A soused Yangtze
person recently strolled along the corridor
of a Western mail train travelling at 20
miles an hour and walked right out. When
the police went to pick up the corpse a
couple of hours later China came joyously
to meet them. He was hardly scratched.
“Norbell”: Touching the copper-cadging
proclivities of the Anglican Church, I notice
that at the various rest huts for soldiers in
Queensland those of the C. of E. are the
only ones that have collection-boxes pro-
minently displayed. They are painted a
glaring signal-red. and are adorned with an
appeal in white letters begging Billjim to
contribute to the cost of the pen, ink and
paper.
“M.A.W.”: Now that the magnitude of
the prickly-pear problem is beginning to be
realised, it should not be forgotten that the
proper people to blame for its spread are
the party politicians. The leasehold squatters
may have been negligent, but even then it
was the landlord’s business to look after his
estates. Some of the runs repurchased in
recent years have not a pear on them, whilst
the Government land, roads and reserves
around are covered with the curse. The
fact is, no votes were to be got by attending
to the spread of the pear until the vegetable
had grown big enough to be a public ques-
tion. The Lands Department has the man-
agement of the public estate; but it is bossed
by a politician, so of course its energies are
absorbed in promoting party ends.
“Malbon”: What tough ’uns the Back-
blocks breed! W. W. Thomas was “Old
Bill” when I worked for him in Victoria
over 30 years ago. He was a grandfather
of a man when later on he was “leaded” at
Broken Hill. A wanderer, too, I found him
next at the Zapapan, in the Northern Terri-
tory, where the white man can’t etc. Where
he was meantime I don’t know, but die was
my boss afterwards at Chillagoe (Q.) ; and
when I moved south and west he was at
Cobar, and then became the first manager of
the Budgery mine. That petering out, he fled
north again to the place where the white
man can’t etc., and I heard of him manag-
ing the Daintree, 50 miles from the Einas-
leigh, which is 100 miles beyond the Sunset
in North Queensland. And I now strike
him as manager of the Consols mine at
Friezland. one of the Elliott Co.’s remote
ELOQUENCE IN THE DROUGHTY WEST.
“Yes, my friends, no rain has fallen for months, and the Heavens still frown down upon
us with a — er—with a smiling face. With no prospects of rain above us, we
meet to-day under a — er—heavy cloud”
shows —still “Old Bill,” still holding up his
head and drawing deep breaths of the Out-
back air, which is the only air such a man
can breathe in comfort.
“Fitzroy’s” view of it: —
“Dead Finish” (B. 28/9/’l6), holding forth about
the Bananaland Government classing and selling
small lots of wool for the grower, is barking up the
wrong sapling. One of the chief snags met by the
Dept, of Agriculture in showing that it is not neces-
sary to have a big holding to successfully go in for
jumbuck-raising has been the wretched price the
man with only a few bales of wool has had to
accept from private buyers. He has had to take 3d.
and 4d. per lb. for wool which if properly cata-
logued in a larger consignment would have brought
lid. and 12d. To beat the robbers the Government
now proposes to take over all these small lots of
wool, advance 50 per cent, of their value, pool the
lot, class it and give it a run for its money at the
big sales. There is to be no pooling of “star” lots,
but rather of “bag and butt” lots. The wool is to be
classed at the Brisbane Technical College, but the
classing will be done by men who know their job.
Moreover, the cocky is not to be charged 10 per
cent., but 10s. per bale, and even “Dead Finish,”
who apparently prefers to see the small cocky getting
a fourth of the true value of his wool, will admit the
reasonableness of that charge. As a fact, this move
of the Government is going to mean a big thing for
the small woolgrower, and a much bigger thing for
the wool industry generally.
Executive Gardens, Brisbane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Slate-colored pigeons, pink of foot,
With pecking motion of the head,
Strut up. and down the sweep of shade
Where burn geraniums hot and red,
In striking contrast to the mood
Of grave Victoria the Good,
Erect in bronze of greyish-green,
Cold contemplator of the scene.
From the green square, the freezia flings
Bouquets of perfume down the wind;
A rose “Inconstant,” gold and flame,
Casts petals on the grass, to find
Perchance as other beauties may,
The permanency of decay ;
And challenging the placid street
Are captured guns, grown obsolete.
A sunless" seat against a wall —
The steps a rebel much prefers;
The great queen cannot block the sun,
Though sway across a world was hers....
Sometimes a cab rolls, rattling past,
Sometimes a motor in full blast,
And sometimes in the garden place
Love rests proud eyes on young Love’s face!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 23, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The rival “queens” who seek coronation
on Carnival Day, in connection with the
Residential Club for Returned Soldiers, are
providing the only social excitement these
days. Last Tuesday night a bridge-and-
euchre party and a dance brought in about
£4O to the fund for the “Soldiers’ Queen.”
The “Sports Queen” (Mrs. Blume) began
her dash with a dance at Albion. An ama-
teur entertainment at 11. M. Theatre, a
shivoo on the Sandgate pier, and a night at
the Dandies are threatened for the near
future. The “Allies’ Queen” (Mrs. Giraud)
has been a dark horse until this week. Her
supporters will open with a cafe chanta,-t in
the Majestic on Friday, September 29. His
Ex. and his wife will pay homage. Miss
M. Brennan organised a euchre party for
the “Citizens’ Queen” (Mrs. Iletherington)
in the Temperance Hall on Tuesday night,
and the Japanese tea-house in Market Square
continues to steadily pile up cash and votes
for the lady. Dame Morgan is “Charity
Queen.” She will hold a reception at John-
son’s Cafe on October 4.
Miss May Power, hon. sec. of the Babies
of the Allies Clothing Fund, is on the look-
out for volunteers to make garments for the
toddlers. There has been so much talk of
what women could do if they were given a
chance that it seems a paradox to have to
appeal for volunteers for this good cause.
Yet willing workers have been scarce lately.
Little Grace Hughes, of Wooloowin,
murmured the usual oaths of allegiance to
W. T. Russell last Wednesday. Belgian
lace and satin were used for the bridal gown.
Two sisters, May and Annie Hughes, were
bridesmaids, and they wore palest pink and
blue. The newly-weds are honeymooning in
Sydney.
A big patriotic entertainment happened
at the Stadium on Wednesday night. Lena
Hammond’s contralto and Olive Clare
Brown’s soprano, Fred Watson’s basso and
turns from the Empire and Tivoli Theatre
filled up a good musical programme. Gladys
Frost was a useful and ornamental accom-
panist.
Last Tuesday Mrs. ' Ryan tea-ed' Mrs.
Holman and Louise Mack (Mrs. Creed) at
the Art Gallery. Our pretty Premieress
was in violet taffetas, with a bodice of
ninon of the same shade. A pale pink hat
lined with black made a fetching top-piece.
The Holman, lady was in navy blue and
white stripes over naVy blue taffetas, and
Mrs. Creed wore pale blue and white stripes
and white fox furs.
Lady Goold-Adams opened a new kinder-
garten at Paddington to-day. The school is
built on the summer-house plan, verandahs
all round, and walls consisting chiefly ol
doors and windows. Bishop Le Fanu, Home
Sec. Huxham and Donald Gunn, M.L.A.,
were among the prattlers, and Lady Goold-
Adams made one of the pretty little speeches
that the public expects.
Arthur Morgan to-day opened Bowman
Park, a beautiful reserve at Ithaca named
after the late David, once the big-hearted
leader of the Labor party. The Governor
was to have presided, but illness prevented
him doing so.
An “All Khaki” concert, at which every
performer was a volunteer, was held in the
Exhibition Hall to-night in aid of Y.M.C.A.
funds.
Mrs. E. L. Turner, of Auchenflower, has
just lost a brother, Sergeant Tom, at
Salonica, and a nephew, Arthur Watts, at
Ypres. But only a miracle could save Mrs.
Turner from mourning, seeing that she had
six brothers and ever so many nephews on
the big job.
Ipswich is doing itself proud to celebrate
the Military Cross won by Lieut. Trevor
Francis. He was a student at the Queens-
land Uni. when he enlisted, and like his dad,
J. Y. Francis, is an athlete of some tonnage.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Bimbashi”: Yet another Anzac, junior.
A number of Rockhampton youngsters un-
hitched a coal truck, pushed it up an incline
and then had the ride of their lives. Finally
one of the boys slipped and was crushed
between the buffers when the trucks crashed
together. For some time he lay in agony,
imploring his mates not to send for ( the
ambulance, but to bring him water. “And
don’t you tell me mother,” he begged. At
last he was able to walk home, helped by his
companions. He died next morning, after
suffering the agonies of ruptured kidneys and
spleen.
From an old Northerner: —
Buchanan, of Brisbane Daily Mail,, is making the
Courier sit up and look to its laurels. Buchanan’s
prompt and courageous dealing - with the Fihelly inci-
dent and his alertness and his determination not to
be tied to the wheel of any party-car are making
the Mail a power.
Fihelly, acting-Minister for Justice, let
himself go at a recent Irish Club meeting ;
and of course Tolmie had to play the party
game with a no-confidence motion. The
immediate result was seven hours of uproar
ending in the Government securing “confi-
dence” by 42 votes to 24. But the Cabinet
is sizzling, all the same; and between'
Fihelly and Adamson, who takes up a do-
your-worst stand in his advocacy of con-
scription, Ryan’s pillow is stuffed with dis-
comfort.
“Norbell” : They say it takes a ton of lead
to kill one man at the Front, and I believe
it. The recruits at the Rifle Range camp,
Brisbane, the other morning were held spell-
bound watching the gambols of a dog in
front of the targets. About 50 men were
training their Lee Enfields on those targets
at 500yds., and the bullets were clickety-
clacking on them like a score of typewriters.
But the dog frolicked up and down, snap-
ping at the whizzing bullets, and enjoying
himself thoroughly. After having the time
of his life for over half an hour he left the
targets and raced down the range towards
the firing party, under a curtain of Mark YI.
lead. Then he sat down derisively in
front of the shooters and joyously barked
his opinion of their marksmanship.


w
mm
wi
I'M
%*s?
saMSis®
r
t#
*fc=»27
1
um
(O.iMlO*
)L-
-//L
UL
m
m
%
wc
yv^/o
£
Senes
Modern
ewery
"vV’SMw =■" ~:
///
:
©L
riL>
£/c
v
7-
o
o
0
2
(/>
«
H
0
>
m
P-
r*
'HVICTa
HTkC
&
£S\\*N'^
<ts
sc
ssss
LL the bottles which carry “Light Crystal” are
thoroughly washed and sterilised in this room. First
they are put into a high temperature bath of caustic
soda. They remain in this some forty minutes. From here
they pass into clean water, J where they are thoroughly
scrubbed. The rinsing-machine follows, and then the
conveyor-belt brings them to the filling-machines. There
are th ree of these —with a capacity of 500 dozen an hour.
The flavor and body of “Light Crystal” make it an
eminently satisfactory Summer beverage.
“ Take a Bottle Home.
Tooths
Jjsfrt (iystal
Vila


The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without
ing. Good for
old and young ■
Purely
Vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Sm ill Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
m
Carters
lITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
CHRISTIE 3
SPECIALISE
TWO
L/AIES
kirt 5
S
#
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
V’-HONTER S t NEWCASTLE
mm
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking: Botanical Gardens.
, MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress. _
IHC
GASO-KERO
4 to 20 B.H.P.
ENGINES
Product* exceptionally cheap power
Btart immediately—no vaporizer to
heat. Avoid danger—no external
flame. Give the least trouble. Are
exceptionally long lived Are sold
at reasonable prices and on easy
terms. Get prompt and satisfac-
tory service ap to experts and
spare parts. Are the best for YOU.
Let us know what size and kind
you are interested in.
International Harvester Co. of Ans. Pty Ltd.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne
Adelaide Perth Launceston
C7OJ
Grey Hair Vanishes
And Youth Gets a Renewed Lease When
This Simple Home Recipe Is Used.
No rational being would prefer to rob
Youth of its rarest charm by wearing grey
hair, and this simple home recipe is offered
with full assurance that it will effectively
darken grey or faded hair in a short time.
To a half-pint of water add:
Bay Rum loz.
Orlex Compound .. 1 small box.
Apply once a day until the hair is the de-
sired color, and an application every other
week will then be all that is needed. It is
also a splendid preparation to correct scalp
disorders, to remove dandruff *and stop the
hair from falling out. The cost of the in-
gredients is but trifling, and they can be
had at any chemist’s. — Advt. [6
BEFORE
m
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(fIPILMRINE
It’s a never-failing source of satis-
faction to everyone who tries it.
No matter how often you have
failed to grow a Moustache,
CAPILLARINE will bring success.
It only remains for you to try
this genuine preparation.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG « AITKEN,
654 Ceorgre St.
BYDNEY.
SI--
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes..walking so comfort-
able, it really is - a' : -“fin'd” in the way of
shoes. An 4 ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
Q9BOO
826
m
mm
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Rostock” on the soles.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Clean Your White Footwear
With BOSTOCK’S WHITE LIQUID CLEANER, for both Canvas and
Buckskin. It does not cake, crack or rub off, and makes your shoes snow-white.
In 4oz. Screw-Cap Bottles, 6d. Sold Everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney
I
Three little merry maids are we,
Winsome, gay, lighthearted, free.
■Hear our bright and merry talk.
Note our light and springy walk,
Rosy cheeks and sunny curls
We’re the Iron ‘ Jelloid ’ Girls 1
After taking IRON ‘JELLOIDS’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
m
Miss J. F. Dubery, Southall, writes I find your
a great boon, being so easy to take, and so palatable.
‘Jelloids’ as soon as I feel a bit ‘ run-down,’ and after,
a marked change ; it is a splendid form of taking Iron.”
Iron ‘Jelloids ’
I always take Iron
taking a few I feel
A fortnight’s trial
( Price 1/6 )
will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/H and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence t£- Market Sts., Sydney.
If you see this
in your Mirror
If the word
is branded on your Collar, you
are certain of being able to
adjust it with ease and wear it
with comfort.
T
is the Hall-Mark denoting
Sterling Goods.
Four-fold, 6d. Linen-faced, 9d.
Superfine Linen-faced, 1/-
AUSTRALIAN MADE AND
GUARANTEED —All Mercers
Ages of S. Aus. Judges: Chief Justice
Murray 53, Justice Gordon 65, Justice
Buchanan 68, Industrial Court Judge Jethro
Brown 48. Westralian Judges: Chief Jus-
tice McMillan 58, Justice Burnside 54,
Justice Booth 52. Tas. Judges: Chief
Justice Nicholls 48, Justice Crisp 42.
If all the Tasmanian apples in London
brought the same price as a case sent over
by Percy Sargant there would be no grum-
bling. Percy used to be on the London Metal
Exchange before he took to apples, and he
shipped a case to be sold amongst his old
friends for the Red Cross. It fetched £125
55., the case brought £6 65., and the wrapping
paper £5.
Neville, of Westralia, is the most Chester-
fieldian Protector of Aborigines that ever
was. A stock-rider who followed in his
Kimberley trail relates that as he left each
cattle-station the aborigines were lined up
and Neville shook hands with the men and
raised his hat to the flabbergasted gins.
One of the last social accidents that hap-
pened before war began was the falling in of
Brassey during the jollification at the com-
pletion of the Kiel Canal. Brassey took the
old Sunbeam across to show the German
plotters that Englishmen were willing to be
friendly. But when he was keeping off his
rheumatism by pulling round the harbor one
morning in his dinghy, a German harbor
policeman arrested him for approaching for-
bidden waters. The mannerless Kaiser
chuckled over the joke that night at dinner;
whereupon the old ex-Governor up-anchored
in the grey dawn of next morning and fell
out altogether.
The Cataract Dam catchment, which tries
to fill Sydney's cup, isn’t the only area in
N. S. Wales that has missed the rains. The
gauge at Burrinjuck dam has registered
over 24 inches of moisture during June, July
and August; but on most of the 5000 sq.
miles of catchment the fall was from three
or four inches to a few points, and the
Federal territory, where Canberra lan-
guishes, is in the driest corner.
John Laver, a Melbourne timber broker
who for many years has had his eye to the
market keyhole, broke the news the other
day that for the year ended June 30 Vic-
toria’s timber-importations—largely soft-
woods —were nearly 2,000,000 super feet
more than the previous year’s. As the 1914-
1915 imports reached 86,000,000 ft., the State
Government had better throw its fear of
Socialism boldly out of the window and
reach after this trade by planting young
stock wherever it sees room to grow a tree.
At present it seems to hang an apology on
every seedling it trowels in.
“F. Born” : The Government proposes to
disfranchise, for referendum purposes, the
“German or enemy-born” residents of Aus-
tralia. Why? Because it is assumed that
they will vote anti-conscription, or against
the’ true interests of Australia. If this be
a valid reason for disfranchisement, why
should it not be applied to the 126,000 single
eligibles who wrote on their cards that they
were not willing to come forward to fight
for Australia?
The protection given by abnormal freights
has enabled the Bendigo potteries to extend
their business to things besides drain-pipes,
and they are now turning the Bendigo
“slimes” into teapots and coffee-jugs and
casseroles and a heap of other things. The
few people who went to a little pottery
show which the Vic. Arts and Crafts Society
held the other day in its loft at the top of
a Collins-street skyscraper got their eyes
opened to what Australia can do in pottery-
ware; and Miss Boyd, the enthusiast who
worked the wheel, does not see why she
should not produce even superfine china-
ware. Neither, by the way, did the
Bakewell firm in Sydney. But after it had
lost, according to faithful report, £25,000,
it decided that in Australia you can no
more make chinaware without a high tariff
than you can do it without clay.
“Billy T.”: Symons was expatiating on
the servant-girl probleln. “These girls drive
my missus mad,” he said. “We’ve had
about 20 in two years, and out of the lot
only one was even pretty good. Her name
was Millie. She did her work well, but was
peculiar. She would get, as it were, trans-
fixed in the middle of a job, and go on think-
ing till she was shook up and started again.
One evening I heard the‘missus give a yell.
The trouble was in Millie’s room. There
the girl was sittin’ on the side of the bed,
cuttin’ her throat.” Symons paused, exas-
perated. “What did you do, Symons?” I
asked. “Do?” he snorted. “I gave her a
week’s notice, of course !”
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
An old Sydney estate comes under the hammer
at the end of October. In and before the ’2o’s one
William Macdonald was in the hardware line in
George-street, where he erected some shops and
dwellings known as “Macdonald’s Buildings.” The
western end of the Strand occupies the site. Nowa-
days 76 feet to George-street is let on building lease
for a term of 50 years from 1890 at £3OOO per
years and taxes. Another lot is right opposite—32
feet 8 inches to George-street, let on building lease
of 50 years at £5OO per annum and taxes. A third
lot is 249 George-street, “looking up Bridge-street,”
22ft. x 80ft., a 50 years’ lease from 1891 at £4OO
a year. But the best-known lot is Roberts’s Hotel,
on the north-east corner of Market and George
streets, let on a 50 years’ lease from January 1, 1885,
at £lBOO per annum and taxes. The Roberts
corner in the ’3o’s was occupied as an ironmongery
store. One .of the proprietors was John Thomas
Wilson, at whom an actress and vocalist of those
days cast the glad eye with the usual results. She
went to Calcutta and died three days after landing
there. Dr. Lang in The Colonist lampooned Wilson
in some stinging jingle, which caused Wilson to
horsewhip Bull, the publisher. Wilson then pur-
chased on credit a shipload of goods, chartered the
Nereus, rode down to the wharf, boarded the ship
and never returned. Dr. Lang said that he fled to
Java. In 1850 the Roberts family got possession
of the Market-street corner and opened a pub under
the name of Crown and Anchor, previously borne
by a hotel opposite the Post Office. The license has
been held by one or other of the family ever since.


When you travel take an
m
Kodak with you
9H
m
u
■
iiJMM
mm
'
:
HI
* *i
HMH
■ —wH
M——W
ranMnuHi
The advantages of taking a Kodak when travelling cannot be over-
estimated. Whether you take a trip round Sydney Harbor, to the
Mountains, a voyage up to Port Darwin —or around the world, for
that matter —there are places and happenings of comparative
interest, well worth recording with your Kodak.
After spending a holiday or touring with a Kodak you have pictures
from which to draw happy memories for the rest-of your life.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/= to £l5/2/=, and
you can learn to uae one in half an hour.
Tiie No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior has the daylight features, the simplicity and
dependability of all the Kodaks. Weighs only 23 ounces; has capacity for 6
exposures without reloading. Fitted with meniscus achromatic lens, and Kodak
ball-bearing shutter. Takes pictures 2~| x inches. Price 45/-
The 3A Folding Autographic Kodak —the most popular camera in the world —takes
pictures 5| x 3|- inches. Price £5/10/-
Ask for the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart. Ruthven St.,
Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St., Rockhampton. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z. 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z., and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, X.S.W.
T. C. TItOEDSOX. Director.
m
mm
m
39
T
DESIGN, MATERIALS a tii WORKMANSHI
*
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
r
«. :: .
The “SKANDIA”in THE HEBRIDES
“MALEKOLA” and “AHAMB.”
25 Tons. 17 Tons.
20 h.p. 13 h.p.
NELSON 8
ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street
SYDNEY.
m
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
cuccciei n taai
W I Ei I 1 lEhSh Ih I%J W Ssh
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” BRAND
Motor-Car Steels.
Nickel Steel for Gears, Crownwheels, etc.
High Tensile Chrome Vanadium and Nickel Steels
for Axles, Pins, etc.
Special
Nickel Steel
for Valves —
non=corrosive.
*
Special Chrome
Spring Steel.
Lists of fpecialities
on application.
m
CARtTAt
jsssjjgjpapf
tows 555777535 mm<
■ lllllli
CAPITAL
IMP*
kmsk
Australian Offices—
-379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
46 Boulder Road, Kalgooriie; Clift Street, Fremantle.


THE AUSTRAL-BRITON
Founded to Advocate the International and lm=
perial Interests of Australasia in the Pacific.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY.
MANY NATIONS. ONE THRONE.
ONE DESTINY. PRICE 6(1.
September War Number now on sale at Gordon & Gotch
(Sydney) Ltd., N.S.W. Bookstall and all Newsagents.
Contents :—-
(1) Australians Think Imperially.
(2) Proposed Kitchener Scholarships.
(3) The Need of Industrial Peace, by the Hon.
C. G. Wade, K.C.. M.L.A.
(4) Mr. C. Alma Baker’s Appeal, under direct
authority from the War Office.
(5) In the Interests of Women.
(6) Australia a Land of Promise. Exclusive
London Letters. Mining News.
(7) H.E. the Governor’s Visit to Inverell.
Publishers: THE AUSTRAL-BRITON PUBLISHING
COMPANY, Somerset House, Moore Street, Sydney.
TsrT
oov%d
Body-building power
proved equal to from
10 to 20 times the
amount of Bovril taken.
r —
) A
SOME COMICAL GET-UPS
No end of fun. Twelve effective Disguises. Slip easily ou
Head like a Hat: no fastening. Three for 1/9, Six for 3/-,
Twelve (all different) for 5/6, post free anywhere. The.
Union Comoany, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
-
Missing Friends.
rpOM JONES, formerly groom to T. C.
JL O’Brieu, will hear something to his
advantage by communicating with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS &
AGENCY CO., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATTNEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE 1)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
*J*IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
VERA PEARCE, JACK CANNOT, THELMA RAYE.
Also, Walter Weems, George Welch, Zona Trador,
Short and Little, Prince and Deery, The Parshleys,
and others.
Plan at Glen’s.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
First Production in Sydney of the London Gaiety
Hit,
TO-NIGHT’S THE NIGHT.
A Musical Delight, Bringing Back Here
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
(“Sydney’s Own.”)
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales Callose’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Commencing Saturday Next at the Matinee. And
Every Evening Thereafter. E. J. Carroll and Beau-
mont Smith will present Henry Lawson’s Real Aus-
tralian Play,
WHILE THE BILLY BOILS.
Being an adaptation by Beaumont Smith of some
of Henry Lawson’s Works.
NEW AUSTRALIAN SONGS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. No Extra Booking
Fee. Plan at Paling’s.
QIIITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Reigning
Success of London since Oct. 10, 1915, when it was
produced at the Duke of York’s Theatre,
ROMANCE,
By Edward Sheldon, with MADGE FABIAN and
FRANK HARVEY and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
m
Triangle plays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session :
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington’ Miller, Managing Director.
Three Sizes—
l'A H.p.
2 h.p.
H.p.
iriii TO®
The EVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-flv-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
12
II
10
4
WRISTLET WATCHES
FOR SOLDIERS.
Made with scrupulous care for
the rough conditions of active
service. Fully jewelled. With
or without Covered Military
Straps. Luminous Dials.
Prices in Solid Silver:
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 55/-,
65/-, 75/-
In Steel, from 25/-
Military Ring's
Military Watches
At STEWART DAWSON’S.
You can always rely on the Biggest Selections and the
most Convincing Values. We specialise in Military Gifts
and Souvenirs. Send to-day for
Stewart Dawson’s Illustrated List of Military,
Camp and Service Requisites.
BATTALION COLOR RINGS.
These Smart Signet Rings show the true colors of our various
Australian Battalions, set in pure Enamel on 9ct. Gold. An
excellent idea for Keepsake Gifts to Mothers, Wives, Sweet-
hearts and Sisters of Soldiers. Also for Soldiers’ own use.
Ladies’ Sizes, Oct. Gold 21/-
Gent.’s Sizes, Oct. Gold 25/-
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Bluest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER .1. D. WILLIAMS \MUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Bahkington Miller, Managing Director.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive the Most Popular
of all Musical Plays,
TIIE GEISIIA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1 /-•
II EAT R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 30.
.T C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present HALE
HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEIIILL in
A PULL HOUSE.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 30.
BEN J. FULLER presents his newly-imported
Musical Burlesque Co.
in
FUN WITH THE COACHMAN,
and
IN MEXICO.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. ___
INCUS THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees... .Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the BERT BAILEY CO. in
STEELE RUDD’S Famous Comedy Drama,
ON OUR SELECTION.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
Amusements.
The playhouse
(Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne).
THIS WEEK ONLY.
The GREGAN McMAHON REPERTORY CO. in a
revival of H. A. VACHELL’S Brilliant Comedy,
QU 1 IN KEYS.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/-. Plans at Glen’s.
THE FREDERIC SHIPMAN ENTERPRISES,
LTD.,
present
PAUL D Ul'ADl T,
THE FRENCH-CANADIAN TENOR,
for a Melbourne Season,
AT THE AUDITORIUM.
SEPTEMBER 28, 29, 30.
Assisted by
PAULINE BINDLEY . . Soprano
FLORENCE SCAPINI . . Violinist
HAROLD WHITTLE . . Pianist
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/-. Plans at Allan’s. _
IRCH&CA K II O U Ij
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
FULLER’S HOTEL, MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
VA
m
Made In
8,10,12,
14,16,
20,24
and 28
gauge
Loaded in London with the
'popular English powders
“NEW CLUB”
Shotgun Cartridges
are low in price, high in the results
they give, and in the estimation of
shooters. These cartridges are
loaded with the popular black pow-
ders, are thoroughly waterproofed
and unexcelled for general use.
Obtainable from leading dealers every-
where —catalogue 'post-free on request .
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Company
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W-, London
m
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
Registered ±iuae Mark.
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS
For October—Now on Sale.
A notable feature of this month’s issue is the inclusion
of some operatic favorites sung IN ENGLISH, which
should be particularly acceptable during this season of
Grand Opera.
04575. Gems from “II Trovatore.”
Sung in English by the
Grand Opera Co.
02004. Prologue “Pagliacci.” Sung
in English by Stewart Gard-
ner.
4-2368. Mother o’ Mine.
John McCormack.
4-2022. Thank God for a Garden.
4-2623. Blue Eyes I Love.
Both by Lieut. Hubert
Eisdell.
03440. O Righteous God (Itienzi)
Madame Kirkby Lunn.
05565. The Chimes of Cythera.
(Piano Solo.) Paderewski.
8524.
fThe Tempest of the Heart —
I “II Trovatore.”
| For a Carousal —“Don Gio-
l vanni.” . ~
Mr. Julian Kimbell.
2-0320J8. Si vons l’avie* compris.
Caruso and Elman.
C 606.
| The Hell Gate of Soissons —
-j ' Recitation In two parts.
[ Miss Constance Collier.
8544.
f A Perfect Day
] I Dove You Truly.
[ Miss Elsie Baker.
Ask your nearest dealer, or us, for the COMPLETE
list of new records.
GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


ALL Op FACE
Healed by Cuticura
Trial Free
I noticed that little spots appeared on
my face, neck and chin. The pimples
4®
became larger and itchy and
I. could not sleep. The
pimples came to a head and
festered. They started to
spread all over my face and
pained very much.
“I saw an advertisement
for Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment so I tried them and
before the month was out
“y fm was quite clear.” (Signed)
L- Morton, 351 Inkerman St., East St.
Kilda, Vic., October 22,1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
okin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to healj Address post-card;
«-Jr ns & Co -’ N. S. W.
bold throughout the world.
MEN! WHY SUFFER
FOOT AGONY!
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, cured without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
. * 0 those who are troubled with sore, tender ach-
mg,swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling feet,
eftilblains, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF”
rw “mcr.?? 1 ' relief and gladness to the feet,
Use BIFF today and banish all pain and discom-
fort. By using BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
® n , e application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Experience only makes credible.
John Tilley writes: —My occupation causes
me to do a lot of walking, and at the end of
r T a ? dually prostrated, since I used
Bin I feel almost as good at the end of a day’s
work as when I started. I never imagined such
excellent results could ever be obtained in my
.. long standing case.
BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
tores trom the wholesale houses, or post free
direct , rom the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
The "Biff’' Manufacturing Co. 114 a Pitt St., Sydney
For Perfect Foot
Ease use “BIFF”
ftoasUiffe
i &
s, jv i-vt
from the Ross .280
using the Special Sporting Am-
munition with its copper tube
expanding bullet fells the largest
game if a fair hit is registered.
You increase your chances of
success by carrying this rifle which
not only hits but anchors the
game.
Expert guides and hunters all
! over the world recommend it.
Sold by best dealers.
Illustrated Catalogue free on
request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec,
1215 Canada^.
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
I\o. Bax 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
mm
RAMEY’S MED/CATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10/-, post free. rt>
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
mvinI h ?,ffl^ ar?eSt t L an w m , 0 1 St suc ces«ful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
pa3in " offlce 111 th e World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W.. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.0.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,070,000.
and fulf s P ectus
WOLSELEY
T present the Wolseley Works are
on War Service, and unable to
supply private customers; but we shall
be pleased to add your order to our
waiting- list, to be fulfilled when we
can resume deliveries.
Agents: F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagti Street, Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street, Melbourne.
C. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide,
WOLSELEY MOTORS LTD.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.,
Birmingham, England.
m
m
/
The Story of the Lamp
cvs>
tm
1
l
/ ,77 1
Pi
First “Improved” Lamps,
1783 A.D.
In 1783, M. Argand, a Swiss chemist,
introduced a glass chimney and burner
with a circular wick, which supplied oxygen
to the flame and prevented smoke. One of
Argand’s workmen was holding a bottle
over the flame when the bottom of the
bottle fell out. He dropped the hot bottle
over the burner and a better and steadier
light was the result.
Successful lighting depends on the
steadiness with which a lamp burns.
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
being specially manufactured by white
labor for Australasian conditions, gives the
ideal light. Laurel burns without a flicker
and is brilliant, but restful to the eyes. For
lighting, heating and cooking, it cannot be
excelled.
Laurel is our new trade mark name for
the highest quality American Kerosene
ever sold in Australasia and replaces our
old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
v La. 7
aqrei
7
mm
AsV
The Inky Way.
Died the other day in London, George
Dull, a bright Australian journalist who,
20 years ago, while doing dramatic criticism
in Sydney, fell in love with a Gaiety Girl and
married her. After that Bull went to his
home-land, where he was a popular press-
agent for various theatrical managements,
and found time to write mumming and other
notes for the smart little London Opinion.
* * '* *
The austere Chief Justice Murray gave
stern sentences of three years and six years,
at the Criminal sittings in Adelaide, for
unnatural offences of various kinds. Next
morning the Register had an article—in its
agricultural columns—on “The Value of
Rape.”
* * * *
The other papers put it this way :
The report of the U.S. Bureau of Crop Estimates
says there is barely enough spring wheat for home
consumption.
But when they reached the S. M. Herald
an e and an l got tangled:—
The report of the U.S. Bureau of Crop Estimates
says there is barley and enough spring wheat for
home consumption.
And that made an e and an l of difference.
* * * «
“J.F.11.” from London:—
An interesting journalistic jubilee we’ve been cele-
brating is that of the Tailor and Cutter. Founded
50 years ago by a young Scottish journeyman tailor
named Williams, it was really inspired by Charles
Kingsley’s “Alton Locke: Tailor and Poet.” That
story revealed the terrible sweating conditions under
which the trade was carried on at that time —the
horrible dens in which women stitched day and night
for a few shillings a week, and men were paid tup-
pence-ha’penny for making a pair of pants with
tuberculosis germs in them. Williamson reinforced
Kingsley’s story with a pamphlet of revelations based
on his own personal knowledge, and followed it up
by organising a trade-union, with the Tailor "and
Cutter as its organ. The paper has alvvays been
solid on the “educational” side, publishing 'lessons on .
all departments of the business by experts. Shalc-
speare’s theory that “the apparel oft proclaims the
man” it holds to be incomplete. Always, not
often, says the Tailor. So Gladstone, although the
Liberal leader, was claimed as a Conservative on the
strength of his stand-up collars; and it wouldn’t have
believed he wasn’t a Tory even if he had blown up
the House of Lords.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford in reply :—■
Tardily, and in foreign parts, I read the talk of
the correctly-named “Copyboy” (B. 24/8/T6). This '
know-all know-nothing remarks that my qualities
as a writer emphasise my unfitness for a job with
a travelling commission which is still an unknown
quantity. He knows all that the job doesn’t ask for,
but apparently not what it wants. I say that the
job was cut and dried for a Melbourne reporter
weeks before the proposed appointment of the Com-
mission was published, and that nobody’s qualifica-
tions or disqualifications count for anything.
* * # *
''Kodak” : Latest Greek cable headlines—
Dimitrakopoulos—Looks Before He Leaps.”
Yes, and we journalists have to look before
we even spell! Lobsters to him!
* * * *
“First Old Man”: After all, you fellows
have nothing to complain of; the Turk in
Ins time has suffered quite as much. When
Sara Bernhardt visited Constantinople in
IJO4 she took with her half a dozen plays,
three of which were by the daddy of French
dramatists, Sardou. Five out of the six, in-
cluding ail Sardou’s, were prohibited by the
authorities—“La Tosca,” because a prefect
of police is killed in it; “Fedora” because
the subject is Nihilism ; and “La Sorciere”
because the Koran is mentioned in the text.
Of the others, Racine’s “Phedre” was for-
bidden because it was a Greek drama, and
Rostand’s “L’Aiglon” on the ground that it
was calculated to give the Sultan’s subjects
a false idea of European politics. The only
piece that passed the Censor was the old
Flossiedrama, “La Dame aux Camglins” !
* * * *
“J.F.11.”: Will Dyson is now entitled to
wear a halo. The London Christian World
hails him as the “most Continental and tech-
nically brilliant of all our cartoonists.” By
way of saying “Amen” London Daily
Chronicle declares every cartoon “a sermon
by a pitiless Calvinist.” The religious train-
ing these young fellows get on The Bur-
letin will tell.
CONTEMPORARY PORTRAITS: J. F. ARCHIBALD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He summed the world and all its din
A sing-le paragraph within.
A message from the dead
He- wouldn’t use, he said,
Unless sub-edited.
The Angel Gabriel sending in
An “Abo.” to The Bulletin
Would be blue-pencilled, too.
No words could be too few:
Most adjectives he slew.
He flayed the cuticle from Pride,
And paunched Pomposity he fried.
Neatly beneath the rib
Of Cant and Falsehood glib
He dug his polished nib.
He knew, but wouldn’t always pen,
The private life of public men.
Not with a club he smote,
But just a two-line note,
Or stinging anecdote.
Perched in his cafe window bright,
He saw all life as words to write,
This gallant Gallic wit,
This sword that neatly slit,
This butterfly that bit.
He brought to us the soul of France,
Her lucid look at Circumstance ;
And when he dies, the last
Bohemian here outcast
Will, with a quip, have passed.
There’ll be no weariness in Hell:
The anecdotes that he will tell—
From fear of libel freed—-
Of Henry Parkes and Reid !
(Who will the laughter lead!)
And Lucifer will pay his sub.
To be a member of his club.
And in that, causerie
I’m sure Eternity
Will pass .quite pleasantly!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


SPORTING RIFLES
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
m
“A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in., round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2|lb.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
11/0
mm
“Splendid for all small game.”
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire, magazine
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-hardened
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, sJlb.
take-down. Carriage paid
90/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
m
“Suitable for small game and target shooting.’
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
barrel; length over all, 35in.; weight, 441 b; slide action,
blade front and screw rear sights
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
38/6
mmm
“A good rifle at a moderate priced'
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4|lb.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights
30/-
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
35/
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
Box of
5 Cigars,
2/6
POST
FREE
m m
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about of lb. ..
551-
m
“Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
Plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all, Win.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.iV., 1/9; other States, 8/2.)
27/6
“ Sure Catch” Anglers’ Guide & Price List Post Free.
m
“A suitable weapon for the hoy.'"
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre. R.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
18/6
New Edition Sports and Firearms List—Post Free.
mm
LI I
m
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE
Watermans Idea! Fountain Pen
■&?// \^r.
S&!
'S
gft
V ,\%
This simple
Filling Device
is making thousands of new
converts to the k ountain Pen
habit. It is simplicity itself. Raise
the lever, immerse nib in ink, lower
r lever again, and the pen is filled. 1 his
device is embodied in the World s Best
Fountain Pen, Waterman s Ideal, and the
type is known as the Lever Pocket Self-
Filler. In every detail the pen is peifection.
There are nibs to suit every hand.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Corner,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence St., Sydney.
The
NEW LEVER
POCKET
SELF-
FILLER
Wa
e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write -to the
Manager, who will quote you price fur it.
A Six-inch Belt can be Laced in
Three Minutes at a cost of Id.
1
i 'TV. ,
.i
with the
“Standard”
Belt Lacer.
The joint is a perfect hinge, which will
pass smoothly over the smallest
pulley without shock.
This system is being largely used by
Engineers, Woodworkers, Printers,
Textile and Boot Manufacturers.
MADE IN TWO SIZES.
No. 1, for Belts up to 6 inches —
Nett Price, £5/10/-
No. 2, for Belts up to 9 inches —
Nett Price, £6/10/-
A thousand inches of Lacing is supplied with
each Machine.
Illustrated Boolclet Posted Free on Request.
Buy an
“All Steel Anvil”
They are forged from one Solid Piece of Steel
—all One Piece —and the patent hardening
and tempering make it impossible for any
part to crack or fall off.
Not like the oi’dinary two- or three-piece “built-up’' Anvil, which has horn and
tail welded to the body, to crack and fall any time.
Not like the “built-up” Anvil, the face of which is laid on separately, and often
cracks and sinks.
The Pi*ice is interesting, too: —
141 b. to 281 b., 9d. lb.; 281 b. to 361 b., Bd. lb.; 571 b. to 1131 b., 50/- cwt.;
1141 b. upwards, 45/- cwt.
m
c
Proprietary Limited
Machinery, Iron and Tool Merchants,
ESTABLISHED 56 YEARS,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
and 51-65 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
4RE YOU f
ON THE ROLL
-■V ?
Wm.
non
□Bn
r~i
>4
33?
sCertam-teed
Roofing
Supplied
In
rolls
72 feet
long
and
3 feet
wide,
with
sufficient
nails for
the job.
Only a
Hammer
needed.
Certain-teed Roofing
gives you
A Cheaper Roof, a Reliable Roof,
a Durable Roof—and YOU CAN
FIX IT YOURSELF, OR YOUR
HANDY MAN CAN.
Certain-teed Roofing is NOT an “experi-
ment”—it is an established fact.
It is as good for the house as it is for
the poultry-shed or cow-bails.
It is a real strong weather-resister, being
guaranteed, for 15 years by the makers.
It will not buckle, crack or blister with
heat; it will not perish with rain. It
is, in fact, absolutely water-tight and
weather-proof.
It contains MORE Bitumen (the
weather-resisting principle) than any
other Roofing Material.
In fact, there is no fault that we know
of in Certain-teed Roofing, and we recom-
mend it for any roof that needs covering
or re-covering.
Samples and prices posted on
receipt of your name and
address.
Get your samples before you buy
ANY Roofing.
DANKS’
Otherwise John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.
For Builders & General Hardware,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.


Start the Summer
Free from Golds.
These are the days when colds are
easy to catch and hard to shift. A
bright sunny morning full of promise of
a summer day tempts one to throw off
winter clothing and don lighter garb.
A sudden change before evening, a!nd
before one knows it he is caught in the
grip of a very troublesome cold—per-
haps not serious—just one of those per-
sistent troublesome colds that are so
difficult to shake off. It is just because
these summer colds are so hard to get
rid of that you must effectually deal
with the first sign of a cold that shows
itself at this time of the year. A bottle
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a
safeguard against such ills. In the
home where it is always found coughs
and colds do not obtrude. A dose of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery should be
taken before the cold weakens the sys-
tem. It will banish your cold and give
you a clear start for the summer
season.
Don’t Fool with a Cold
Banish it Nothing like
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
A few doSes of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery taken when a cold is coming on is
generally all that is needed to soothe the fever and correct the bodily discomfort
of a severe cold. It is well to continue taking New Discovery for a day or two
even after the attack seems averted, for its soothing influence on the mucous
membrane renders it less liable to a second attack.
Our friends are our best advertisement, for it is they who have tried Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery who know its merits. Noted artists, singers and pro-
minent citizens from all over Australasia have testified to the value of this
famous remedy. If you have not tried Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery you -cannot
do better than join the throng, many thousands strong, who habitually protect
themselves from coughs and colds by using DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY.
Price 1/6 and 3/-.
D“Sheldon’sJ
New Discovery
■>-■■ ■ . ■■ 1
m
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
The Sydney § Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of laft Maintenance, Kepairs, Renewals of Lifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
£
The
Hot
Sun
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
if you use freely several times a day
Rowland's
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN, as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London.
lONtserraT
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
5259
WNfcMI JHtf"*
tyjiiif-vJMI
(PE
mm
m
POINTS IN
DEGREES
EX-FINE
FINE
, MEDIUM
; BROAD
i iORIOINAI- POINT.)
EX-BROAD
PENMAKERS TO H.M. THE KING
'BY' APPOINTMENT.
ORIGINAL MAKERS OF THE
3 rJ?
s OF P°'.
tj MARK
MADE IN
3
COLORS
BLACK
BLUE
GILT
GALVANIZED
' WHITE
{METAL & COATS D.)
M
H
mm
ASSORTED SAMPLE BOXES of 24 PATTERNS from All STATIONERY STORES.
Appassionato.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
IFEEL the fine wind on my cheek;
I turn to meet it with my mouth.
O wind from out the South,
Thou art his messenger
Upon my mouth !
I have been lifted up as a bird
On his wing
Because of a word;
Because of a whisper I heard.
The trees bent down to cover it,
The deep of the night to hover it;
Love spelled it, heart held it;
Now as a bird on the wing
In the Spring
Am I stirred.
Glad, glad is my heart!
(Sing, morning time, sing!)
Last night at the pane I heard the rain—
Rain that came from the South !
I gave it my cheek, and I gave it my mouth,
Because in the South were you.
Now morning is blue ;
And I, I sing like a bird on the wing!
I sing, and I call on the sky, and the sun
and the morning to sing;
And out of the window where slanted the
rain
I lean for the sun to lie on my heart
(Oh, close to my heart!),
The sun that is shining on yon.
Oh, blithe on the wing of delight
I soar, higher and higher,
Where-dreams give wine to desire —•
Wine to a mouth
Tingling to drouth
For one who is turning her face to the sun
and the wind from the South !
11.
Sun, let thy light go by!
Sky. lean down and hear my cry!
Darkness is on me deeper than night.
He is away.
He is awa3% and my hands have forgotten to
play:
My eyes that were bright as the light of the
stars in the night
Are wells of despair;
The surge of the blood
Is drowned in the dirge that is all I can
give to the day.
He is away.
O song that is measure of power! O grief
that darkens the hour !
Shall power go empty, for ever and ever,
Beating its cry on the air?
Song that is measure of me
Call to him tenderly,
Call him so longingly;
He will not stay
Always away.
N.S.W.
MART GILMORE.
The End of the Feud.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O one hut _ the two old men knew
I exactly how the feud began. It
had lasted for more than twenty
years, gaining intensity with every month
that passed, and so deen was the feeling
aroused that many outsiders feared it would
come to bloodshed in the end. They had
visions of a stray shot fired from behind a
patch of sandalwood, or a stirrup-iron
swung viciously when the two men met in
the road.
Denison owned four hundred square miles
of the best grazing country along the creek,
and he had worked most of his life to add
value to the place. A lean, grey-bearded
bushman of the old school, he was tough
as greenhide and active as a rock-wallaby,
and at sixty-five was still a hard rider
among timber. And though the place
turned over five thousand yearly he never
changed his moleskins more than once a
week. From the overseer down to the half-
caste horseboy, the men regarded him as a
good boss on the camp or in the yard, but a
hard nut to deal with in the matter of
money. It pained him to write out a
cheque or kill a fat bullock for beef.
On the edge of the run, by the stock-route
gate, lived Larry Burke, the mail-contractor.
He had been a mate of Denison’s thirty
years before, and had helped him sink tanks
along the droving-routes from the Dawson
to the Bree, working hard on contracts that
were little more than tucker-jobs. But
neither of them talked much of those days.
Larry was a thin man of Denison’s own
build, but without his extraordinary energy.
Most of the real work of the place, getting
meals ready for the coach passengers and
attending to the mails, was done by his
eldest daughter, Delia, while Larry pot-
tered about the swamp with a shot-gun in
search of ducks, or sat on the rails of the
yard with the Whelan boys, talking horse.
But in his gloomy moments he talked of
nothing but Denison, growling a little into
his beard and looking with sullen, vindic-
tive eyes at the wire fence that marked the
boundary of Maloola run.
“Luck, pure luck,” he would say. “That
and the instinct to grab. If he hadn’t
started by putting his brand on better men’s
cattle he’d be a poor man still. I could tell
you yarns about moonlighting.”
It was the same old story, over and over.
“Don’t you worry, Larry,” Andy Whelan
would assure him, “we’re getting some of
our own back now.”
Andy was a big fellow with a sun-cliapped
face and a good-humored grin. Somewhere
in the. ridges at the back of Denison’s run he
and his brother Steve lived by shooting and
trapping, their horses feeding on Denison’s
grass and drinking from his gilgais. But
on Sundays when the coach came in they,
were generally to be found at Burke’s, along
with a casual drover or teamster who hap-
£ en i , to be camping along the creek.
Burkes was. the centre of all the floating
I ire of the district, and there was always a
place for anyone at the table, with someone
in the corner playing the accordion, and
Delia and the other girls bustling round
and blushing at the men’s repartee.
But the feud was never entirely forgotten.
At Burke’s everyone was against Maloola
as a matter of principle, and if Denison’s
name was mentioned Larry always rose and
paced the room like a caged tiger, growling
into his beard. It was as if he felt that his
life at some point had gone unaccountably
askew. Why should he, who had been free-
handed and generous all his days, be in-
habiting an old bark shanty with hardly
enough grass to feed a herd of goats, while
Denison, whose meanness was notorious,
could run his five thousand cattle along
twenty miles of creek frontage and order
overproof rum by the case?
Sometimes Denison, riding out from the
township in the dark, heard the music and
laughter coming from Burke’s shanty and
was affected by the same kind of irritation.
There had never been any children in the
big, pise homestead at Maloola, and that
was a raw spot. And none of the stockmen
played the accordion in the Maloola hut at
nights.
Denison thought of the two girls, and the
Whelan boys, and all the casual bushmen
who hung around the place, and somehow
the blood grew hot about his temples.
“A crowd of lazy loafers!” he thought.
“I’ll get no peace till I’ve rooted out the
whole damn lot* of them.... I wouldn’t
wonder if they’re eating my beef now.”
But the process of rooting-out was a
long business. He had “pounded” the
Whelan boys’ horses, and they had retali-
ated by cutting his fences and letting three
hundred head of cattle out into the next
run. He had dammed a little creek that
ran through a corner of Larry Burke’s
selection, and Burke had shot one of his
finest bullocks and left it lying in the road.
There had been a system of mutual reprisals
extending over many years, each man
pressing others into his service and growing
more bitter with advancing age.
_ In the middle of the mulga, two days’
ride from the nearest township, the two
houses stood confronting one another over
10. miles of bush as if they represented every-
thing that was eternally opposed. The
teamsters, the drovers and the casual, float-
ing population sided with Burke; the other
station-people and the stockmen of Maloola
just as automatically took the part of Deni-
son. Yet no one knew what it was all
about. Even the teamsters who brought
the bulk of the Maloola stores (and inevit-
ably left the flour behind just when it was
needed) had no excuse for their partisanship
except that Larry was a good fellow and
that the girls always got together a good
meal when a man was hungry.
“We’ve got to stick to them,” they said
dogmatically.
Denison, on the other hand, talking to the
neighboring cattle-men, emphatically reiter-
ated that their interests were the same as
his own.
“We’ve got to get rid of the whole bunch
of them,” he repeated. “If they get to kill-
ing my cattle for beef they’ll kill yours, too.”
Camping out with the overseer and stock-
men his talk was always the same, and he
continually endeavored to wring from them
new ideas of retaliation. Yet he was dis-
tressingly conscious that he himself was
the only one whose heart was really in the
business. . Lying awake at night, with the
trees tracing fantastic patterns above his
head, he was haunted by an absurd feeling
of isolation in a hostile world. He saw
himself as a powerful old bull stricken down
by accident, and tormented by a swarm of
crows with faces like those of Larry Burke
and the Whelan boys.
“I’ve got to do something,” he said, rising
and flinging his nap away from him. “Damn
it all, I’m not going to be beaten by an
old waster who’s never owned a decent
horse or a fat bullock in all his born days.”
His chance came one morning when, rid-
ing out to the back of the run, he stumbled
upon four young steers lying all in a heap,
with an empty cyanide-tin in the middle of
them. He sat in the saddle looking at
them, the veins standing out in cords upon
his forehead, and his fingers clenched tightly
over the handle of his whip. It was hardly
a mile from the Whelans’ camp, and he had
heard that they had been illegally using
cyanide to poison ’possums.
Denison did not even wait to go back to
the homestead. It was the first time he had
got a clear opportunity to use the law with
effect, and he was going to lose no time in
geting out a warrant. Andy Whelan was
going to marry Delia Burke, so the overseer
said. Well, if he could get him and his
brother sent down for a good stretch, he
would be going a long way towards rooting
out the whole crowd.
He rode across country to the stock-route
gate, his long, lean face seeming to grow
more hatchet-like in its keen concentration,
and his eyes burning with an almost fanatic
intensity under the shaggy brows. On the
rails of the yard Larry Burke and the
Whelan boys were perched like gaunt birds,
and the sight of the familiar bay horse was
enough to bring a growl from Burke’s throat.
The very hair on his head seemed to bristle
with animosity, and he threw a chip
savagely at a mongrel cattle-dog that was
lying near a post.
“Git to him, Boney,” he hissed. “Git to
the old waster!”
Boney was a malicious dog and that was
the one kind of order he could enjoy. His
aged teeth sank home in the bay’s heel just
as its rider was leaning over to shut the
gate, and when the horse plunged Denison
fell like a sack of flour. A little later Burke
and. the Whelan boys were bending over him
feeling his arms and legs. “
“A bad break,” grunted Larry at last.
“It’s up to someone to get a doctor, I sup-
pose. .. .Damn that blasted dog !”
No one saw any irony in the curse, least
of all Denison. When he came round two
hours later he was lying between white
sheets and. feeling a little muzzy and senti-
mental. His head seemed to be comfortably
filled with cotton wool, and he only remem-
bered vaguely what had happened, but his
eyes, wandering vacantly round the room,
fixed on the bald spot on Larry Burke’s
head.
Larry was standing 10 feet away, with
his back turned and his hands in his pockets,
(Continued on next page.)


YOU CAN ALWAYS TELL THE
MAN WITH KIDNEY TROUBLE.
The man with kidney trouble
is cheerless in expression, sal-
low and heavy-eyed. He is
easily irritated, excited and
worried over trifles, and nerv-
ous. His back troubles him
day and night—spoils his sleep,
and makes him dizzy and faint
after the slightest exertion.
H e is rheumatic, dyspeptic
and hopeless. Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills make the
Kidneys well; they are the
one medicine that is especi-
ally for kidney and bladder
troubles —the one medicine that cures
men and women to STAY cured, and
'protects them against such advanced
kidney complaints as Bright’s Disease,
Diabetes, Dropsy, Rheumatism, etc.
Read the case of a man who was cured.
Every fli c ture
Te/ls j 4 Story
K
%
dJ
w
»\'' V
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Serious Kidney
Trouble.
Inflammation of tHe
Kidneys.
Sydney Man Cured After
Long Suffering.
Mr George Woodroffe, 10 Roseby Street, Drum-
moyne, Sydney, says:—“l have derived very great
benefit from the use- of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. Seventeen years ago a cold settled on my
kidneys and eventually inflammation of the kidneys
and bladder set in, and up to the time of taking
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, some little time ago,
I. suffered terribly. I have been treated by some
of the cleverest and best-known Sydney doctors, and
was for seventeen and a half weeks in the Sydney
Hospital, where I had one kidney removed. Though
the various treatments eased me for a time I was
not cured, and would soon relapse into my former ill-
health. I also tried patent medicines advertised to
cure kidney complaint, and they did not even give me
temporary relief. My brother was always worrying
me to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, if I only
took one bottle. To please him I got them, and
before I had finished the bottle I felt much better, in
fact, I had not felt so well for years; the pills were
working wonders for me. I continued taking them
and am now perfectly cured of every symptom of
kidney trouble.” .
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above eleven years
later: —“My cure has lasted, for I am still free of
the terrible torture of kidney and bladder trouble. If
I ever feel the slightest pain near my kidneys I take
a few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
they never fail to relieve me at once.”
DOWS
Backache
m
looking stolidly out of the window. There
was something about the hang of his shoul-
oeis. that was extraordinarily familiar to
enison, yet it was over 20 years since he
naa seen him at such close quarters. He
remembered, _ though, that that was always
;. ie attitude m which Larry had stood while
the billy was boiling at nightfall, his back
to the fire and his eyes looking into the
darkening timber.
Denison s mind worked round to the morn-
mg on which he and his old mate had last
words. It was in the horseyard
at Maloola, and the two of them had nearly
come to blows about the ownership of an
eight-year-old mare that had been found in
the ndges with no brand upon her. With
the overflowing amiability of the utterly
helpless he felt an extraordinary impulse to
1 the age-old controversy once more.
‘Larry!” he said.
Burke turned on his heel.
“Weil?”
‘That mare,” Denison fumbled. “I’ve
been thinking about her. I’m not sure she
belonged to Maloola after all.”
The admission caught Larry Burke in an
unprotected spot.
“Rot!” he grunted. “Who else would she
belong to?”
“She might have been yours,” said Deni-
son.
There was a short silence in which both
men were thinking 20 years back.
111 tell you what we’ll do,” said Denison
at last. “I got seven quid for her. We’ll
toss to see whether I keep it or pay it over
to you.”
He groped ineffectually for a shilling,
and then saw that his trousers were hanging
over the bed-rail. Larry brought out a
battered sixpence.
“As you like,” he faltered.
“It’s the only way out,” said Denison. “I
wonder we didn’t think of it before
Heads!”
VANCE PALMER.
Stiff Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ABDI L handled No. 074 very roughly
on the Peninsula. He filled his left
leg with machine-gun bullets and
chipped off a portion of his right shoulder
with shrapnel. Afterwards No. 074 was
my closest neighbor for five weary weeks in
an Egyptian hospital; and during that time,
while other men cursed Abdul, the heat, the
flies, their wounds, the war, and the
monotony of inaction, he proved himself a
hero, as not one complaint was uttered by
him.
On my last day in the hospital, No. 074’s
leg formed a bone of contention between
three surgeons. After 15 minutes of exami-
nation and discussion, the conference decided
on a majority vote that on the morrow the
lead-filled limb would part company with
its owner’s body.
Stiff luck, old man,” I said to No. 074,
after the surgeons had passed on.
He looked across at me with a grin. “Don’t
mention it, mate,” he said. “Stiff Luck and
me s been keepin’ company for a long while
now. It was through Stiff Luck I lost me
greatest cobber an’ a ’eap of money. It
was Stiff Luck wot got me into this.
‘Squeaker Kelly was me cobber. A fair
dag Squeaker was, an’ clever too. Never
worked in ’is life, an’ never seen the inside
of gaol, though that wasn’t the police’s
fault. I run up against Squeaker first
"™ n , I was tonsorial artist at Soapy
Li hot s Elite ’airdressin’ saloon. Two quid
a week I was gettin’ for shavin’ the ’ardest
dials you’d find in Orstralia an’ asking ’em
whether they’d like their ’air cut Noo York
or fashion.
“ W ell, Squeaker keeps whisperin’ every
time we go down to the Arms of Bacchus
for a tid, ‘Wot’s the good of workin’?’ he
sez. ‘Work’s a evil, that’s wot it is. You
oughter put it in the same class as John
Ops, an’ plagues, an’ wowsers. You cut it
out an’ come along with me, an’ I’ll show
yer ’ow to write Gentlem’n of Independent
Means after yer name for life.’
t 4 I was just tliinkin’ of slingin’ the job,
’cause the manners of the blokes wot patron-
ised Soapy’s didn’t give the joint a charnce
to live up to its name, when one day Soapy
takes stock, an’ ’e makes some nasty remarks.
You bet yer life I’m not standing that, so
I picks up me lid, gives Soapy notice and
dodges the spittoon ’e ’urls at me as I walked
out.
“After that I slings in me fortunes with
Sq,ueaker for weal or woe, as lie sez.
Squeaker an’ me has a good time on the
whole, an’ we most times ’as a pocketful of
cash. ’Strewth, he was that clever tliinkin’
out schemes he oughter been a politician or
racin’ ponies. Our luck was bonzer. The
mugs we struck was dead easy. It was just
like blin’foldin’ them, an’ talcin’ the dough
outer their pockets. We made money, too,
runnin’ a two-up joint, but the Johns got
too inquisitive, an’ they put the ’unt on us.
Then we struck old Stiff Luck, an’ ’e never
left us. Stiff! If it was to rain quids
Squeaker an’ me would hav’ been struck
with paralysis so we couldn’t pick ’em up.
All the mugs seemed to have cleared outer
town, an’ it looked as if all the police force
had been given orders to let the criminals
go an’ keep their eyes on Squeaker an’ me.
“All the splosh Squeaker ’as is one and six,
a crook half-quid, an’ a double-headed penny.
My wealth’s down to a couple of sprats.
‘Look’s as if we’ll have to enlist or work,’
sez Squeaker, and if you’d ’eard him groan
when he said ‘work’ you’d thought there
was a lost soul floatin’ round.
“But I didn’t lose me faith in Squeaker,
and when I meets ’im the next night ’is
eyes is shinin’ bright, as if ’e’d picked up a
fiver. I tips he’s got the dinkum oil some-
where. I was right. Squeaker tells me
lie’s got a scheme to save us frim the rocks.
It’s a bit desperate, but he sez when a man’s
got an empty stummick an’ is down to his
last couple of bob it’s no time to be carryin’
kid gloves. Seems Squeaker’s been hangin’
round a big bettin’ club, where he’s pally
with one of the stewards, and he’s found
out that one of the big bookmakers is in
the ’abit of playin’ cards pretty ’eavy at
the Club after the races, and leaves in the
early hours carryin’ his takin’s on ’im through
the Gardens. Squeaker’s idea is we meet ’im
in a dark spot in the Gardens, give ’im a
gentle tap on the ’eadpiece, pinch the cash
an’ fade away, an’ get our beauty sleep while
the dorn’s paintin’ up the sky.
“ ‘Sounds easy,’ I sez, ‘but supposin’ the
bloke’s been skinned that night. Wot’d we
git for the risk?’
“ ‘ ’Strewth, but you make me tired,’ sez
Squeaker. ‘Carn’t you use yer imagination?
Ain’t ’e got a gold watch an’ chain, an’ don’t
’e wear as many diamond rings as a pawn-
broker’s missus?’
“That clinches it; so we goes an’ blues
in our capital on a supper. A bloke’s no
good if ’is stummick is a dead marine. Then
we ’angs about the Club, dodgin’ to beat the
Johns.
“It must have been about three o’clock when
the bookmaker bloke comes out and mooches
away towards the Gardens. We shadders
’im, ’n’ when lie’s goin’ along a dark path,
we creeps up. Squeaker gives the word, an’
we’re on to ’im. The light only lasted a
minute, but that bloke squirmed like an eel,
an’ bellowed like a bull, an’ the three of u*s
rolled over an’ over like seftls wrestlin’. At
last we gits ’is ’ead down on the grass, ’n’
puts a foot on ’is face, an’ our ’ands go
to ’is ’ip pocket simultan’ous. ’Strewth, but
the feel of them notes —Cripes! While
it ’ad me dazed, Squeaker jerks the roll outer
me ’and, and with ’is other ’ook he has the
bookie’s gold watch an’ chain.
“Just then we hears a sound like an ele-
phant rushin’ through the grass. ‘lt’s a
John! Iluck different wa'ys,’ Squeaker sez.
But I’m not losin’ sight of Squeaker when
’e’s got that roll of notes. So I toilers ’im,
an’ we races along the path, an’ outer the
Gardens "opposite a big ’ouse with two
motors standin’ in front. The John is cornin’
on about a ’undred yards behind. Squeaker
rushes across to one car, an’ tells me to ’op
in. Then he winds her up, climbs in, an’
with a jump we’re off, just as the John
dashes across the road. Motor drivin’ was
one of Squeaker’s old games.
“We got a fair start, but that John wasn’t
wastin’ time. He must have woke up the
driver of the other car, because when I
looks round the other car’s cornin’ on be’ind
us. In a couple of minutes we’re dashin’
through the city, an’ I can see ’em slow-
in' down once or twice an’ taking on a cargo
of Johns. Then we shakes the old hinjun
up ; but the other lot keeps gainin’ on us.
Squeaker has to turn off the big streets, an’
when we git twistin’ round the side streets
I wonder whether we ain’t blarsted avia-
tors. We slides round lamp posts, jumps
across gutters, pulls down a verandah post,
an’ —then dashes into a small street with a
dead end ! Squeaker sees it, puts on the
brakes, an’ the car pulls up in a yard. In
the centre there’s a big black buildin’ with
a tall chimbly. The Johns’ car comes snort-
in’ up to the gate, so we rushes across to
the buildin', an’ looks fer a place to nit.
There’s a row of tip-carts propped up
against the wall. Squeaker crawls under
the cover of one of ’em an’ I gets under the
cover of the next one, and we lies quiet.
“That cart might have been a ’appy ’ome
for a rat, but it was no good for a ’uman
being. It was full of rubbish, an’ I couldn’t
move, ’cause I was frightened of the tins an’
broken glass maltin' too much of a row. Me
’eart was thumpin’, an’ when I heard those
Johns searchin’ round the carts cold shivers
was runnin’ up ’n’ down me back.
“ ‘How about havin’ a look in them carts,
caretaker?’ sez one of the Johns.
“ ‘No charnce of ’em gettin’ in there.
The covers is fastened down to keep the
rats out, an’ no ’uman bein’ could live in
them carts,’ the bloke sez.
“He was right about them carts. The
stink was fair sickenin’. I catches meself
tliinkin’ how long a man’s supposed to live
in ’em. It must have been an ’our before
the Johns give up searchin’. When things
was dead-quiet I begins to wonder wot’s
’appened to Squeaker. He’s got the roll of
notes an’ the watch an’ chain. I was just
goin’ to drop out of the cart an’ have a
look to see whether Squeaker had died of
the hum when some blokes comes inter the
yard and begins to shovel coal, so I reckon
it’s time to see wot’s ’appened to Squeaker.
I lifts the cover an’ looks out, and then I
’ears footsteps cornin’ round the buildin’, an’
blarst me if two blokes don’t come an’ stand
beside a cart.
“Strewth, then they lets down a iron
door in the side of the buildin’, and I can
see flames leapin’ up inside, an’ I ’ears a
roar. The next thing they does is so sudden
that a lump comes inter me throat. ' They
goes to Squeaker’s cart, whips off the cover,
an’ gives the front of the cart a ’eave with
their shoulders.
“There’s a clatter o'f bottles an’ tins, an’
all the rubbish goes slidin’ inter the flames.
But I ’ears somethin’ else. It’s a screech—
somethin’ awful it was. Squeaker, I knew;
and wot I seen an’ heard fair paralysed me
for a couple of minutes.
“ ‘Must have been a dorg in there,’ sez
one of them, an’ they walks to another cart.
“That’s me charnce. I shins out an’
creeps across to a ’eap of stones against the
fence, an’ drops inter the street.
“ ‘What’s the tall chimbly?’ I sez to a
cove. ‘That’s a destructor,’ he sez, ‘where
they burn the rubbish.’
“ ‘lf a dorg got in there, wot chance would
he have?’ I sez.
“ ‘Buckley’s!’ he sez.
“Old Stiff Luck’s got our two hundred
lovely quid—it couldn’t ha’ bin less!
“Of course, I never told a soul *ow
Squeaker passed out, an’ 1 suppose ’is cob-
bers is still wonderin’ ’ow ’e did the dis-
appearin’ trick. But if old Stiff Luck lets
me git back to Melbourne again I’ll put up
a notice in the papers on the annivers’ry
of Squeaker’s death :
“KELLY—WiUkm.—To the memory of William
(.Squeaker) Kelly, who was cremated on 21st April,
1915, at Melbourne. (Inserted by a sorrowing
friend.) Stiff luck.” *
W. K.


m
(Morse)
m
/ 1 "jW! <,*s j,, * ;
-• *,:
m
S u £ e ££ lant * A &ents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
•Victorian Offioe-99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE ROCKER-JOINT eliminates fric-
tion, and as there is no slip, power losses
are reduced to a minimum. Our chain
business is constantly increasing, prov-
ing that engineers are realising the
advantages to be gained by using
ROCKER-JOINT CHAINS.
Ask for Booklet 8.M.810 when making your
inquiry.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST. N.S.W. „
m
D O N'T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
___ LOCKYER-S SULPHUR
HAIR “
1/6
Lockyer’s
natural
restorer
SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
gives health to the hair and restores the
color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
i-he most peifect Hair Dressing.
„ . I J IIS world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories
London, bng., and can be obtained direct from them bv
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
HEALTH
QtJ.Coflfe Bretf^
The Original and Only Gem
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Cheeks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SP A SMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Sim fjf c Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, $/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
I
r
m
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
. Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
PROFITS IN SOFT DRINKS.
Vendor Should Got All the Profits.
“Q
- -
Eckersley’s No. 68 Combined Carbonator and
Fiiter, with Filling Back (1916 Model).
NOTE:—We manufacture Glass Washers,
Filters, Beer-raising Machines
and ail Accessories for the Trade.
Quadruple Your
Profits
by making your own
Aerated Water Supplies
with
Eckersley’s
Machines
or
Soda
Fountains.
Manufactured Solely in Australia by
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 25a George Street, Sydney,
And Corner HAIG 8 CLARENDON STREETS, S. MELBOURNE.
Agents:
fA. M. BICKFORD. & SONS, Currie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
I ?orrN°RTrr* N snv S n- N & S° U ? I^ S ii- Q ”! en et ’ iJrisbane > Queensland.
I JOHN RIGG x SON, Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z.
iLIONHSL SAMSON & SONS, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. “Time tells
all things" says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9 (IGB pills).
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
m
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
steel., gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
w\
BENGER’S
Food
for
Delicate
Children.
When children
are weakly from
birth or through illness the
digestive strength is naturally
sub-normal, and, as there is
failure to extract full nourish-
ment from ordinary food,
malnutrition results.
Benger’s Food is specially
recommended for overcoming
the ill effects of malnutrition
in growing children.
m
m
Food
For CHILDREN,
Invalids , and the aged ,
z> sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Eenger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the s p eci al feeding of Children, Invalids and the
Aged, will be set it post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, Eng-.
Branch Offices— \ : E\V YORK (U.S.A.) 92 William Street.
- ~ , SYDNEY (V.S.W.I H 7, Pirt Street.
Canadian n & Chemical Co., Ltd.,
° Street, Montreal, and Branches
throughout Canada.
I7IL.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
j ARRAU and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Motorists’Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need ; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us-—you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Run-down
When your system is under
mined by worry or over
work—when your vitality
is lowered when you feel
“ any how " when your
nerves are “on edge '
when the least exertion tires
you—you are in a Run-down
condition. Your system is
like a plant that is drooping
for want of water. And just
as water revives* a drooping
plant—so'Wincarnis gives
now life and new vitality to
a “run-down” constitution.
Because 1 Wincarnis ' pos-
sesses a four-fold power
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
x Blood-maker,and a Nerve
Food—all m one Therefore
A case fop
Wincnrms *
m
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force and
new vitality The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful You can feel it
doing you good. You can
feel your whole system being
surcharged with new vitality
and new life That is why
over to.ooo Doctors recom-
mend ‘ Wincarnis.
Don't continue to suffer
needlessly Get well the
‘Wincarnis’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
‘ Wincarnis ’ is made in Eng-
land by COLEMAN & CO.,
Ltd., Wincirnis Works, Nor-
wich. Yoa can buy ‘ Wincar-
nis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-
and 6/6, but if you experience
any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Pole Distribut-
ing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
5/7 Barrack Street, Sydney.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
Bmangroviteiil
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
m
■m
The very best
stimulant for
general use —
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
MBWHH ijf o ***** Jr X -jf j if' J ~ I
M ,gg. :j
THE
Family
Stimulaht
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF,
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings,
Brisbane; and Adelaide.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
should be
kept in
every house.
D
■
o
O , .V:
IWI
mm
England’s Best! Will considerably reduce your “Working Costs.”
By far the most Economical Motive Power for Butter Factories,
Mills, Electric Generating Stations, Factories, Irrigating, etc.
Sole Agents: DALGETY CO. LTD., Machinery Dept., Miller’s Point, Sydney.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
It is always the wisest investment to get the best Sheep
Shearing Machines-—so that breakdowns, unnecessary
delay and expense are avoided.
The Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine is built by a firm
renowned for the Quality and absolute reliablity of their
productions.
For efficiency, low cost of upkeep and all-round satisfac-
tion, the Wolseley is supreme.
Descriptive printed matter, giving full details of the
latest improvements, mailed post free on request.
Australasian Agents:
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.—All Branches.
_
■
.
iO
mm
and see how the Wheel is well under the Barrow, due to double bend
in the frame, which means that the load leans heaviest upon the wheel
and not on the operator.
Trays are Best-quality Steel, stamped out of one piece, and beaded
round edge.
Tubular Frames pass right round, protecting the wheel, and act as a
“tip” for forward dumping.
For Hard Service in Mines, Mills, Furnaces,
Smelters, Railways, Gas Works, etc.
We oifer them as the Most Substantial, Cheapest and Best
Wheelbarrows on the Market.
PARKE LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
mm
'GARBAGE
DE.-STCiUCTOR
ti
m
SwS
mv
n
ON THE OTHER HAND
All Refuse Absolutely Destroyed
in an Australian-made
CUTHRIPC DESTRUCTOR
wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmm win mi
NO FLIES, NO SMELLS,
Health-Giving: Cleanliness.
Install One in Your House NOW,
IT COSTS LESS THAN A DOCTOR,
EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY
