

The Whisky of Exquisite Taste
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Minin 0- and Contractors’ Plant. Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty , AUCTIONEERS FOR M ACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts ot New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avadable.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5 W- MONT DE PIETE D QI C
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH
fext to “Daily Telegraph” Xevv Building. And at
STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
BRfftfH liiuilltttll®rtlltflfstffffl S 802 Eu
6- w... & o.y
>"• ■ -.'
?=s
ra s
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
I WRITE TO-DAY FOR SO-FAQE BOOK.
L OSCILLATING
nvM
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MQNEYj
GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
For In- and Out-door Sleeping.
American Wall Bed
380 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
"g.
’Co.,
«Ss>
Hu Item
”
HomdA Bacon
‘ScQl£," / a
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
fdsdg
a
For INDIGESTION
v and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
I
■
For Electric Wires and Cables
Made in accordance with the Standards of the Cable Makers' Association.
Buy from
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
C.M.A.
a
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
“Not the same as others
Roofing
is not the same as others, because it meets
EVERY specification. It has no weak points.
May we send you samples and booklets?
a panelled effeet is desired —if the very
finest wall finish is desired—then there is
nothing to equal Amiwud. Strong, dependable,
beautiful. Let’s send booklets.
Wall Boar
TO,
fattiZ
Chains
House* Sydney (D, S. Evans, Australasian Representative).
Agents In all
States.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
dsdgs
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. „
Roll Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
tooth
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Toi. 37.—N0. 1915.]
[Thursday, October 26, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


new fiction
At “The House of Good Fiction.”
T.nekh'irt’s Man from Bitter Roots.
McHarg & Balmer’s The Blind Man s Eyes.
Tompkins’ The Seed of the Righteous.
McLaughlin's The Eternal Magdalene.
Stevens’ And What Happened.
Lerrigo’s The Castle of Cheer.
Paine: The Long Hoad Home.
Foster’s Rich Man, Poor Man.
McLaurin’s Least Resistance.
Mason’s Golden Hope.
Chambers’ Tha Girl Phillipa.
Locke’s Far Away Stories.
All at 4/- per vol. Posted 4/3.
ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
DEATH TO FLIES.
THE NEW NON-POISONOUS
POWDER.
“MUSTDIE”
The Great Insect
Destroyer.
Price
9d. per tin.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
Fleas, Flies,
Mosquitoes, Ants,
Cockroaches, Moths.
v *
V V
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H, Box
1520, G.P.0., Sydney, and a trial tin
will be sent post free, or forward 9d. in
stamps for a full-size tin.
T he Red Page
Billzac
C. J. DENNIS, cobber of the Sentimental
Bloke and the late Corporal Ginger Mick
(killed in action).
From 60 portraits of Billzac drawn by
our contributors we get a curious composite
photograph. Considered alphabetically Bill-
zac is:—
An agile, adaptable, amiable, audacious,
alert, athletic, aquiline-nosed anti-wowser;
A brave, boyish, bronzed, brown-eyed,
bullet-headed bloke;
A careless, care-free, courageous, cheerful,
confident, cigarette-smoking, Celtic, casual
cove;
A dark-eyed, desperate, disciplined, daunt-
less, determined, dolichocephalic, democratic
devil;
Erect and enduring;
A flat-cheeked, far-seeing friend;
A gay, grey-eyed, graceful, generous
gambler;
An honest, humorous, honorable, hand-
some, happy-go-lucky hard-doer;
Irreverent, impulsive, insouciant, indo-
lent, inventive, independent and impulsive;
Keen-eyed and kind;
A lean, lithe, lank, lazy, live, laughter-
loving. large-eyed, long-armed, lantern-jawed,
long-necked, loose-limbed, laconic, leg-pulling,
lurid liar ;
A man’s man and a matter-of-fact mate;
New, narrow-hipped and nonchalant;
A patriotic and physically perfect pal;
A quick-witted, red-blooded, resourceful
rebel; ...
A slim, sturdy, sinewy, slouching, sensi-
tive, silent, self-reliant, soft-hearted, sport-
loving, swash-buckling, straight-going, steady-
eyed, small-chinned, sandy-haired, super-
masculine, sentimental bloke;
Tall, tough, tanned, trustworthy, thm-
nosed and thin-lipped ;
Unconventional and unique;
Vigorous and virile ;
A wiry, well-knit White Man.
Some snapshots of Wm.-Jas.: —
Shams and all the pomp of military cere-
monial he has no time for: turning out
spick and span for guard is qualified rot;
but on furlough his ordinary uniform is not
good enough—he must have it made to
or( jer.—-(Oliver Wood.) He talks to his
camp mates in the diction of a navvy, and
writes home articles, descriptive of far-
away scenes, with the style and polish of a
Wells or a Stevenson; would no more admit
their authorship, among his pals, - however,
than he would own that he did not know a
certain year’s Cup winner. Would sooner
be “gassed” than be considered a mug
... .or a hero.—(Thos. V. Tierney.) With-
out knowing it, lie is one of the. most reli-
gious men there are: he calls it being a
white man.—(Louis M. Rielly.) He works
hard, drinks hard, fights hard, dies hard,
and doesn’t give a damn for anyone. F.S.—
His language is something awful. — (r .M.J
Billzac is the natural, logical result of
human evolution. He is the product of a
vast new country which has placed its im-
print upon him* and in the years to come
Billzac is going to have a big influence in
deciding how the rest of the world is going
to look after itself.—(A. C. Broughton.)
Mentally, he is well above the average of
his English brothers in general knowledge,
whilst he arrives at his conclusions more
by quick perception than by based calcula-
tion. It is a kind of intuition he has. ... .
the outcome of experience rather than train-
ing Twenty shillings in the pound both
ways is his motto and largely his religion.—
(“Bridletrack.”) Shoulders with a graceful
slope—the shoulders of a swimmer Does
not talk much. Probably has not much to
talk about except “records.” Bill is a whale
on sporting records... .Does not say. his
prayers very often. When lie does it is to
thank God that he is an Australian—( hive
Stars.”)
In the years to come, who knows, per-
haps our wandering steps may linger on
this hallowed soil (of Picardy), and find a
Franco-Billzac blending from those of him
who survived. In dreams I see this blend-
ing, and I hear, “Bonjour Monsieur;
s’truth, where have you sprung from t I
—oh I hail from a distant land called
Australia.” “Orsetralia! why, blirne, mon
ami, that’s where mon pfere came
you know him ? He is called Billzac.
“Know him! Of course I do, shake. An
in that grasp I feel the unity of two great
powers, blent for ever in the bonds or
brotherly affinity and blood.— ( George M.)
With slouching walk he ambles along the
broad street, his long arms swinging loosely.
Ilis firm mouth, dull brown skin or eyes
that blankly stare at you and pass you by
do not hold at first glance. His languid air
and tired, laconic enunciation seem to denote
an inactive or placid mind. His speech is
filled with quaint and paradoxical phrases
that are vivid in their expressiveness. And
thus you see vour Billzac —and yet you see
him not. For those loosely-formed limbs,
when moved to action, work with a rhythm
that is new and surprising. That slouching
walk can, as suddenly, be changed to a
sprightly step or swift, striding gait. And
around that mouth will play a smile, and
those eyes will light up—a reflection of the
hidden fires. — (Edgar L. Stevens.)
Billzac likes good pay, not that he wants
to be paid to fight, but he has always been
used to it and must have money, to spend
—invariably on the best that’s going in the
tucker and refreshment line. That’s where he
differs materially from the English Tommy.
In amusements I think he loves a Marlow-
drama best. No matter where he meets her,
a pretty wench is a weakness, for Billzac is
a decidedly sentimental bloke and there’s a
blarney-stone handy to every Australian
city. Letters from and to home mop up the
other big lump of Billzac’s sentiment.
Finally he simply won’t be made a hero of
—that is according to the stay-at-home’s
sickly interpretation of the word.
(F. R. Lee.)
Glengarrie jauntily a-tilt, puttees hastily
donned, uniform evidently well used, mili-
tary-jacket collar undone, cane he does not
exactly know how to manage, sandy hair,
not too well brushed, boyish laugh, brown
eyes, rather large mouth, slightly retrousse
nose, lips formed into the shape that results
from constant “blankyings,” merry suspi-
cion of a dimple in chin, brown, tanned
hands, arms slightly over average length,
swinging gait of one unused to crowds, feet
not exactly dainty in extent, much given to
talking about the “tarts” rather roughly
(but with a sneaking idea of “giving ’em a
fair deal”). — (R. L. Jamieson.)
Billzac has a hazy notion that somehow,
some way, his continent can support a hun-
dred million of himself, not that he bothers
much, for the future will take care of itself.
Yet he is probably right, but, nevertheless,
long before Billjim An-zac Algy-Clarence
has thus far multiplied himself his views
will inevitably have altered correspondingly
to a less noble ideal —or rather his present
ideal will be less attainable —will more
resemble that of crowded Europe. Physi-
cally, too, he must alter in proportion, less
effect of beneficent climate, to the influx of
undersized body and brain-starved undesir-
ables. That eventuality is a long way off,
and he will for ages to come remain the
bosker bloke he is.— (“Te Babarantiko.”)
His religion is Anti-Wowser. When not
.silent his language is vivid without vicious-
ness. He is at all times ready to fight with,
or for a mate, for sheer love of the fighting.
He is the most unpatriotic patriot in all the
world. — (“Premiere.”)
J.T.D. expresses Billzac algebraically:—
| (Grit + Stoicism) - »Fear {• *S-
•j (a curse-rancor) + a swear j = Billzac.
Agnes Gill does it, rather too neatly:—
B aptised with slio T
I nimitable in das H
L imitless in resourc E
L eonine while yet a cu B
J ibber against disciplin E
I rresistible and fearles S
Magnificent in comb a T
BILLJIM, The Best!
And so does Kay Wynne
B rave,
I ndependent,
L azy,
L ive,
Z ealous,
A udacious,
G asual.
Boyce Bowden, asked for prose, gives us
excellent verse: —
His lips keep “open house” to quaff the
Avine of Living to the dregs; he is a joy!—a
sunburned laugh, stalking around on lanky
legs! He preaches in the face of Woe his
doctrine of “It might be Avorse.” He gives
his laughter with his blow. He greets his
best friend with a curse; and o’er the laurels
he has won, yarns, yawns and blinks out in
the sun!
Final decision is difficult. Boyce Bowden’s
second portrait is neatly impressionistic,
but a little obvious : “ ? ! only
more so!” C. 11. Souter supplies an accu-
rate anatomical diagnosis of Billzac that is
useful but too categorical to be a living por-
trait. Helen Burke, Charles R. Mortimer,
J.D.C. and “Bill Badd” paint portraits that
are highly interesting but hardly brilliant; so
to Bartlett Adamson (Box 1520, G-P-0.,
Wellington, M.L.) the award goes for this
fine interpretation of a bloke whom, we Aus-
tralians are apt to forget, is also a native of
Maoriland. The other named competitors
will see their portraits hung in succeeding
issues of this page, and, of course, space rates
Avill be paid for these*
Jim zac - the Casual.
Extract from a history written in A.n. 4000.
Jimzac, grandson of Billzac the First,
ruled in Australia some time after The
Curtain-raiser War which began in a.d.
1014. There were many millions of him, and,
being a dinkum bloke, he took precedence
over all the emperors of earth. In build he
was tall, lean and sinewy, walked with some
trace of a slouch, and stood among other
nationalities as a coco-palm in an. orange-
grove. His features were long, straight and
clean-cut, with large, dark eyes, black hair
and sun-browned skin; a sort of gipsy-
apollo somewhat elongated. In temperament
he was laughter-loving, self-reliant and re-
sourceful ; lazily energetic, like an irritated
bomb; peaceful as a bulldog; brave, as a
matter of course; and soft-hearted as a kid —
though he would never admit it. He wel-
comed everyone as an equal—but they did
not necessarily retain that status; .was a
lover of the arts and a joke—especially a
joke and the art of self-defence; and dis-
liked making a fuss over trifles, so that he
would risk his life for a pal in the same
matter-of-fact way that he would proffer a
fill of tobacco. In short, he was a loyal
friend and a royal foe; a revised and
enlarged Anglo-Celt warmed by. the French
wine of sunlight. He had a habit of looking
straight at his fellowman, the sun and his
own conscience; and his outlook was as wide
as his land. Because he saw much of the
glory of skies and flowers, the great-hearted-
ness of his mates, the goodness of woman,
and such other wonders of creation, he was
sincerely religious. But having much com-
monsense, he credited his god with the same,
and banished all those who claimed to be
attorneys for the Creator and who wore
back-to-front collars and gaiters to prove it.
He thought they carried blasphemy a bit too
far. Similarly, being himself a sport, he
could not imagine his god as otherwise, so
he played the game of life fairly and for all
it was w r orth, and left the rest to the referee,
knowing that the player who paused to pro-
pitiate the judge with long beers or prayers
or praises would probably lose the game, and
would be no sport in any case. Thus for the
first time in history we find a religion with
such faith in its god that it could heartily
relish this life without fearing an attack of
indigestion to follow. From this dates the
decline of the Black Ages and the dawn of
Civilisation.
After a long reign Jimzac abdicated in
favor of his Sons, and his manner of doing
this explains why he was surnamed the
Casual. One morning an aeroplane arrived
at his adobe palace. He gave the usual royal
greeting of “Good-day, Mate!” to the kindly-
looking old pilot, who returned it and
motioned Jimzac to step aboard. Jimzac
nodded a “so-long” to his sons on the veran-
dah, offered the pilot a fag, and said: “How
about a spell at the lever, Mate?” Mate
moved over into the passenger’s seat, Jimzac
took charge of the machine, and off they
went. History does not state their destina-
tion. Mate’s name, by the way, was Death.
—Bartlett Adamson.
I.W.W. Songs
The significant thing about I.W.W. Songs
(380 Castlereagh-street, Sydney) is that
they are all written in a foreign language
by foreigners. From the noise that the
I.W.W. make this page would have imag-
ined that this organisation would have been
able to produce its own _ Australian poets,
singing the woes of their own continent.
Instead of that: —
The workers said to Casey: “Won’t you help us
win this strike?”
But Casey said: “Let me alone, you’d better take
a hike.”
Then someone put a bunch of railroad ties across
the track,
And Casey hit the river with an awful crack.
Casey Jones hit the river bottom,
Casev Jones broke his blooming spine;
Casey Jones was an Angeleno,
He took a trip to heaven on the S.P. line.
The delightful moral of this little tale
would come home to the great heart of the
I.W.W. if only it were translated into good
Australian. Perhaps the I.W.W. doesn’t think
there is any good Australian. One of the
recommendations for the red flag is that
“The sturdy German chants its praise.”
These songs call up an awful picture of
labor conditions in Australia. The workers’
children, we learn, have “no time to play”;
also: —
Their little forms are stunted, their faces white and
wan,
From working in the sweatshops, the slaves of cruel
man,
Unkempt, unfed and forlorn, crippled, maimed and
torn....
They never hear the birds sing, or stroll through
meadows green....
In the dark depths of the earth, amid the roar of
countless mills
These little slaves are working at a dreadful pace
that ki115....
Every Australian mother knows how her kids
are compelled to slave in our mines and our
factories. And here, the Australian workman
has got “not a thing to lose but bis chains.”
Also, just because “Congress passed a
measure,” wc are “clubbing men and women
just for walking on the grass.” When a
man is looking for work lie is immediately
arrested and run in for vagrancy. These
wrongs indeed “make our hearts boil.” And
what shall we do about the bread-line that
the I.W.W. poets assure us is a feature of
our cities? No wonder these oppressed
workers look rapturously forward to the
time when the employer will be “the bum”
and they will be “the swell guys”! And,
meantime, they are being shot down by
gatling guns, or working 10 hours a day and
living in liuts. And the sadness of this
mother’s prayer, echoed, no doubt, from one
end of the Commonwealth to the other!
Where is my wandering boy to-night?
The boy of his mother’s pride?
He’s counting the ties with his bed on his back
Or else he's bumming a ride.
And all because he is a wage-slave. And
our heart goes out to “The Blanket Stiff,”
that painfully familiar figure throughout
Australia :
He built the road,
With others of his class he built the road,
Now o’er it, many a weary mile, he packs his load,
Chasing a job, spurred on by hunger’s goad,
He walks and walks and walks and walks,
And wonders why in Hell he built the road.
The I.W.W. poets have assuredly made
out a case. If these things obtain in Aus-
tralia, under a Labor Government, the red-
flag organisation deserves our sympathy
and support. It’s enough to make our
hearts boil! Still, there is no need for the
I.W.W. poets to depict these horrors in a
foreign language.
•—
What Does Billzac Read?
“Robert Brisbane” : In different parts of
the world I have tackled soldiers about books
—Australians, mostly. I could find no
favorites; there seem to be no soldiers’ books.
Official work, valuable as dry record, does
not touch the soldier; stuff written by
authors who do not know what war makes
of a man, reads, to him, like a thin jest. The
soldier does not want his picture of life
blotted out by the soft ethic of pre-war
times. He wants something naked, alive,
clean, purged of the tame outlook and com-
ment of writers who still think in values
blown to bits by this war. This the home-
keeping reader would -call brutal; and
writers work, not for the soldier, but for
readers who love peace, and the soft things
of peace. Before you find that soldiers’
book you must find an author for it. Where
is this super-Billzac?
J*
“S.M.C.” : I provide two men with read-
ing matter by each mail —one in Egypt, one
in Europe—-and you may like to hear my
instructions from them. “Send along the
daily papers to keep us up in politics, a good
exciting yarn ( not war) and Tixe Bulle-
tin.” I am inclined to think most of our
men like what my sons do.
J*
“Coot” quotes Beatrice Harraden, in
London hospitals. Asked what he would like
to read, Tommy didn’t know. “Pick me out
a good ’un.... something exciting, full of
blood and thunder.. . .with a good murder in
it.” The sentimental story w r as next in
demand. Nat Gould was very popular, also
Charles Garbage. Sometimes Tommy wanted
to read the yarns he had seen on the film,
e.g., Tolstoy’s Resurrection. He liked
Treasure Island and Kidnapped and “any-
thing of Rider Haggard’s or Conan Doyle s.
Also, he wanted magazines and “something
to make a fellow laugh.” The British
officah wanted detective stories, and especi-
ally lan Hay’s The First Hundred Thousand,
Bartimaeus’ Naval Occasions , Ordeal by
Battle, Boyd Cable’s Behind the Lines, and
Alfred Capper’s Recollections and Reflec-
tions of a Wanderer. The most popular
poet was Rupert Brooke —and lie wasn t
exactly popular.
—
Isabel Maud I’eacocke is evidently on the
road to a popular success as a writer ol
kiddie stories. My Friend Phil stood out
from the ruck of kid heroes by being a leal
and sturdy Australian; and her new hero,
Dicky. Knight Errant (Ward, Lock), is a
genuine Maoriland boy, obviously drawn
from life. Dicky is a boy-scout; and though
the author heads her chapters with the rules
of the Scouts’ Code, she is able to see the
humor of these moral commandments as
well as their practical use. Indeed, the book
is a delightful presentation of the boy-scout
type. When Dicky is about to. rescue the
nice young lady he proceeds to hack his
way to her through the bush, and is justifi-
ably annoyed when that girl points out that
it would be so much easier to walk round
the tree. “After all, what is the use of
carrying a knife if one makes no use of it.
And" when the girl tells him she has lost her
engagement-ring, the boy-scout mind in-
stantly decides that first he has to cut down
all the bushes with his knife and then dig
up the ground bit by bit. When the girl
says this would take all night, he suggests
building a raupo whare and camping there.
And when, in the most exciting adventure
of all, the boy-scout overcomes the German
spy, his scout-code finds itself up against
his mother’s teaching. The sacred rights
of property conflict with his duty as a scout
to search the unconscious German for in-
criminating documents, while to take the
spy’s motor-bicycle, even to save the life o
a soldier, seems to Dicky uncommonly like
stealing. This kid story is one of the sanes'
that this page has read. It should have s
huge popularity, since, nowadays, every kit
carries the baton of a scout-master in his
knapsack.


g
JUST PUBLISHED.
&
xr.»
1
Anthony Horderns’ Portfolio of Fashions
SPRING and SUMMER, 1916-’l7
PORTRAYS a few of the MANY attractive
.. . NOVELTIES now showing in the .. .
NEW FASHION SHOW ROOMS
at the ever-popular PALACE EMPORIUM, on the Historic Slope of Brickfield
Hill. Artistic Millinery for all occasions is specially featured, French Models in
Ladies and Children’s garments are distinctly smart but moderately priced, and
the latest Modes in all that appertains to Feminine Fashions are available ex every
Mail Steamer.
This publication is especially dedicated to our lady frmnds in the country, to
enable them to choose from the prettiest and nicest Fashions produced for the
season, and still further demonstrating the advantages to be derived by buying
everything at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Posted Free on Application.
763
ra
CO'
S 2
167
ir
731
49Z
587
35Z
m
s \
G
Cv;.
?5?
Dresstf Hats for Girls
at Anthony
Horderns
No. 167.—Little Girl’s O" am Satin Hat, trimmed
goffered silk, and trimmed .tl* small posies of flowers; suit
child 5 to 6 years 12/11
No. 492.—Pretty White Jap Silk Hat, soft crown,
gathered brim and trimmed merv. ribbon; suit child 3 to 5
J' ears 12/6
No. 7(s3.—Pretty White Chiffon Hat, trimmed wreath
of small flowers and ribbon streamers; suitable for girl 10
to 12 years 16/(5
No. 352. Smart Hat for Maid, aerophane brim, straw
crown, trimmed flower at side 13/11
No. 781.—Little Girl’s Dainty White Aerophane
Hat, trimmed pleated ribbon and small Daisy buds; suitable
for child 7 to 8 years 17/6
No. 387.—Girl’s White Satin Straw Hat, glace .crown,
trimmed gathered ribbon round crown, finished with rosette
at side; suit girl 14 to 16 years 13/11
No. 757.—Girl’s Pretty White Jap Silk Hat, shirred
crown and brim, trimmed wreath of Daisies; suit child 6 to
7 years 13/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY. N.S.W.


J
HAMMERLESS SHOTGUNS
MODEL 1912
Extra Eight Weight
Made in 12,16 and 20 Gauges
There’s no need of carrying a
heavy gun. The use of Nickel
Steel makes it possible to get ex-
treme light weight with great
strength. But it costs more, and
so is not generally used. Win-
chester Model 1912 shot-
guns are constructed
tirely of nickel steel, which
makes it the lightest and
strongest gun on the 4
market. It is very hand-
some besides, and a relia-
ble, fine-shooting gun. Be
sure to see one before buy- t
ing. Sold by all cjealers. A
THE REPEATER PAR EXCELLENCE fj
\^r
wr
•A
'1
m
mm
;
S
■
,
Her Dentist was
Astonished
At the perfect condition of her
teeth. He asked the girl whose
picture you see what dentifrice
she uses.
This, she writes us, was her
answer: "Dr. Lyon’s—it is the
only preparation that gives me
perfect satisfaction.”
Satisfaction like this is pos-
sible for you. Visit your dentist
twice a year, and morning, noon and night
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
OR
Dental Cream
m
xgllg
iwn mm
* ::g
r«6— *
g£j« as
Best of all use both. If a preference exists for the Den-
tal Cream, by all means, use it, but do not overlook
the value of varying the form of the cleanser at sys-
tematic intervals by using the Tooth Powder. This
form of cleanser is super-active and its occasional use
is the only perfect safeguard for the teeth.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S.W.
p
mm
istvlS,
i«*r til If K:fs
rf2
SK
o
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where, Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
- FEDERAL. LORRIES
J.
TELEPHON
BELL
Masters of Transportation
Throughout the world Federal Lorries are satisfactorily handling
all kinds of transportation problems. They are strong and sturdy, and
extremely easy and economical to operate.
Buyers of Federals are assured of satisfaction, for back of every
Federal Lorry stands the Federal factory, with a world-wide reputation
for the way in which it has built thousands of lorries. No detail is
overlooked to make the Federal the best lorry sold to-day. Federal
Lorries are made in three sizes: Id-ton, 2-ton, IU-ton —worm drive
exclusively.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
Adelaide: EYES & CROWLE LTD.
Sydney: KELLY’S MOTORS LTD.
Queensland: TOWN & COUNTRY AMALGAMATED MOTORS LTD.
Australasian Factory Representative: BOX 635, Adelaide.
Awarded the Only Gold Aledal at the Panama-1 acific Exposition.
[2
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MASNIVEN & CAMERON L&'.
f ' GOEDE N "WAT TLE ’ 1
EDINBURGH. .
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
• •
• •
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold at Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men. women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
MR. T. I. CAMPBELL,
General Secretary Farmers 8 Settlers’ Association of New South Wales,
one of the best known of Sydney’s commercial citizens, having held this important
position for years, gives this voluntary testimony to Clements Tonic, because he
states it merits it: —
“Farmers and Settlers’ Association, N.S.W.,
“7 O’Connell St., Sydney, 27/7/’l6.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and
experience, I do not hesitate to give you my opinion of it, simply
putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to be a very fine blood and nerve tonic. I know
that it has benefited me greatly. At various periods my duties are
exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and
I have always found your medicine of the greatest value to me,
having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of
my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling others to benefit by my
personal experience.
“(Signed) T. I. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any. man better or more widely known than the able
Secretary of this far-reaching Association, the influence of which extends over the entire State,
and whose members amongst the pastoral and farming communities of New South Wales are
to be numbered in thousands. To all of these Mr. Campbell’s letter will appeal, as equally
as it will to his numberless commercial city friends, because of its sincerity and lucid explana-
tion of the worth of a medicine the effectiveness of which is felt and recognised throughout
the Australian Commonwealth.
It is truly the medicine for the man on the land. Send for it if you suffer
from Insomnia, Poor Appetite, Weak Nerves, or Brain Fag. ALL CHEMISTS.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle.


ELEY
CARTRIDGES'*
Always Reliable I
Bug
wM
n
ill
g
m
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL’
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs T.S. Black
Powder and xj oz. of shot.
ĝ
ğďg
ELEY
‘3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY *3B
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St.eet, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L? LONDON
TkeCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in KSJustralia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W-,
writes:—•
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that 1
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after- using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
file week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect ; all m'y former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizziness,
Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I have every
reason to believe were caused through the use of
tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are only re-
membered as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
well, and feel fit to face the world again. It will give
me great pleasure to recommend j'our remedy to
others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
Testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i
THE GREA v BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Front & Co.. 221) Strand. London.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. Yousii Pyo ur
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing- you
secure a perfect letter, and a
perfect copy. There is no
f
ƒ
g
sign of copying. 400 octavo Sits. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10g x
S|, post free 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England.
Bcmning'ton’s
Jmfaes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT (SL LUNGS
fg
<3
CA*/>
'Cf
'A'c
*2.'St
7~y
&v.
'Ms#
vS-
<£7
>5
vS-
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BO NNING T °N’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
179 HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
CELEBRATED
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—•
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's. Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, Parbury Buildings. Brisbane. [1
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney
BE GOOD
TO YQUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
dg
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
i/ii itt iuuuiui(ai(lM«ikMnitn«r
'OT.
V-
usnn«tutMiiHWAmnii«"
\r
SC
S 3
o*.
m
m
~
s
«
n
(Jib*
The development of energy'
depends on continued good
health; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history
"THE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GFT EAR, 287-239, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES JKruschen), Ltd., 66 Deausgate Arcade, Manchester, England,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Way layer.
A dreamer of dreams and a weaver of rhyme,
Good , sleep denying me all her sweets,'
It has been this way with me many a time—
That lying abed I have walked the streets.
When all the wheels of the town are still,
And still the babble of song and talk,
I say to my mind, “Go where you will” :
And forth he fares on a quiet walk.
I turn no more on my couch and toss,
But, hither and thither, I go with him.
In the little hours, when the Southern Cross
Dips, large and white, to the western rim.
Three pine-tre’es gloom in a wayside park,
And all around them are hidden flowers,
As he takes his way through the noiseless
dark
With padded feet in the little hours.
Around about him, on every hand,
A sense of something-that-sleeps-not
dwells ;
The tall lamps, pale in the star-shine, stand
An army of street-side sentinels.
Red-lighting the jewelled skies, a star
Across a breadth of the heavens is hurled ;
The things of the day grow dim and far;
The world he wanders, another world.
Where the villas shrink in the dewy dusk,
Each door shut fast and each pane astare,
He wanders what time rose-scent and musk
From their garden-plots make sweet the air.
Is yon the house where the queen of girls
Plucked roses (was it years or weeks
Or hours ago?) while the lustrous curls
Caressed the round of her creamy cheeks?
All things seem changed that he used to
know,
Set far, dim-seen, in a world withdrawn ;
Was it ages since, or a day ago,
That children sported on yonder lawn?
The long streets echo no far footfall,
But stretch untrodden, lit mile on mile;
For the might of the night is over all,
And life and motion are stayed the while.
Then Sleep comes stealing in swift surprise,
And he kneels a slave to her magic charms,
And she kisses the lids of his drowsy eyes,
And he sinks to rest in her folding arms.
And so when Care in the night would stir
My soul to fever and turmoil deep,
My mind goes searching the night for her —
The sweet waylayer whose name is Sleep.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Threnody.
When the death of love you’d sing,
Frame an airy triolet
Fit to mourn so frail a thing.
When the death of love you’d sing
Would you halt the Car of Spring
For one trodden violet?
When the death of love you’d sing
Frame an airy triolet.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Southerly Weather.
The gale’s on the straits,
The rain’s on the pane,
The stark harbor gates
Are streaming with rain ;
And a little Avhite snowflake
spins past like a feather.
Hi! Southerly weather !
The bolt is well shot,
The log’s in the nook,
The joint’s in the pot
That swings on the hook ;
And the laughter rings out at
a well-tokl tale.
Ha ! Southerly gale !
The draught’s in the blind,
The song’s in the leaves,
The fists of the wind
Pound hard on the eaves.
And the bright little children
are prattling together.
Hey ! Southerly weather !
The spark’s on the log,
The couch is well spread,
The drowsy old dog
Whines low in his shed.
And the bustling clock ticks
loud on its nail.
Ho ! Southerly gale !
Round the bin to and fro
The timid mice bob;
The boots in a row
Are set near the hob;
And the rain of the road steams
up from the leather.
Ha ! Southerly weather !
The slow minutes creep,
The tall shadows rise,
The fairies of sleep
Draw the lids o’er the eyes.
“Sleep well!” shouts the roof
with its chatter of hail!
Oho ! Southerly gale !
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
A Good-night Song.
There are stars in the sky.
There are golden daffodils,
There’s a silver moon on high,
And the day’s gone with its ills.
The harbor is a glass
For the moon’s resplendent face;
See the fairy vessels pass,
Things of mystery and grace.
The earth is full of joys,
There is little time to weep;
Here be golden stars for toys,
Smile, and smiling fall asleep.
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.


PS
%
0
N
' -'V
r
a.
PERDRIAU MOTOR TYRES
All over Australia present-clay users of Perdriaus
are securing mileages that, viewed per mile, are
setting new standards.
YOU CAY DO EQUALLY WELL WITH
PERDRIAUS. They are made in Australia, a
fact that is well worth knowing these times.
The 3-rib design of the Perdriau is scientifically
correct, in that it shows less frictional action on
The Ford owner who uses the special Perdriau Tyre for Ford Cars receives
a positive guarantee of a minimum of 4000-mile service.
The general experience, however, is proving that this mileage is being
frequently doubled, and in cases even trebled.
Start Your Trial with PERDRIAUS to-day.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
the road. Notice how flat and ap-
parently frictionless the contact
is in the illustration.
df
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO. LTD .
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
ghfd
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their st Referee ”
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
“Haven’t You
Any Ambition?”
inquired the old Gentleman who had popped
into the Grocery Store to buy a tin of
“REX”
Luncheon
Cheese
£
s>\
-poaotfc/
ITS
a ],<=
U/v‘r':
but found the boy?'propped lazily up against
the counter.
“No” —responded the youth s dreamily—“but I have something just as
good.”
A lot of people go- through life unprepared to deliver the goods, but
most ambitious grocers will readily supply you with “Rex” Luncheon
Cheese, because they know' there is none “just as good.”
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, always opens up in good order and condition
—piquant of flavor and of uniform taste and consistency.
Spread it like butter. Eat it for Lunch or just as a savory finish to a
meal. ✓
ASK FOR ‘‘REX” BRAND AND SAVE DISAPPOINTMENT.
Also ask for
“Rex’* HanvPate.
“Rex’* Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork iSa usages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork sand Beans, tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Brancl Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
TEMPORARILY OUT OF STOCK.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
&
E
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
ghfd
WAR Time Demands Economy.
MOTORISTS! to Economise You Must Fit
Smith’s British =
Four-Jet Carburetter
WORLD'S RECORD MAXIMUM ECONOMY
WITH MAXIMUM POWER.
S. Smith $ Sons <ma> Ltd.,
199 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 2087.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
A Standardised Machine.
Low Prices for Spare Parts.
After experimenting for two years, Dodge Brothers
decided upon a definite standard for their Car, which
remains practically without alteration from year to year,
save for the refinements that are constantly being added.
The result of this standardisation is that, with the
huge production maintained, spare parts can be supplied
at an exceedingly low range of prices.
Full particulars of these attractive rates, which most
effectively illustrate the value of standardisation, will he
promptly furnished by us on application, and we cordially
invite all motorists to inspect the parts.
THE MOTOR IS 24-R.A.C. RATING.
The WHEEL BASE IS 110 INCHES.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 37.—N0. 1915.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1916.
Price 6d.
[B.E. MINNS. 214 George-street, Sydney.] `
WILL YOU BE IN THIS FISHERMAN'S BASKET ON SATURDAY?
SHE: “But are you not ashamed —you are baiting your hook with lies!”
THE KAISER: “Ha, ha! The man who butchered Belgium isn’t likely to stop at a lie or two if they’ll kill a few weary Australian soldiers.”


Special Notice to Agents.
In consequence of the scarcity, of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BULLETIN.”
You will therefore be good, enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required. ,
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for Inn
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 (Is. (id. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
Hear, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
Kill Business Communications to be addressed to The
■Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
WOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The- Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
•responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; .Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Jilil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong I . —Brener and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route. 160 z.,
Id.- Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Sloz. to 10oz., 2 Id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, 'ioz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1916.
THE BLACK [?]IE AND THE WHITE
MAN’S HONOR.
I >; the frothing tumult of the anti-conscrip-
tionists, which drowns argument and drags
Australia’s most momentous debate to the
level of a pot-house brawl, the outstanding
discord is the reference to black labor. Cold
Feet sobs of the sanctity of the human life
that won’t rise to the supreme dignity of
sacrifice; Greed fears that something will
be dragged out of its clutch in the process
of national organisation; Smug Hypocrisy
invokes the aid of prostituted jirithmetic to
prove that we have done enough or that
we cannot do more; and narrow-headed Folly
runs round mouthing the cheap catch-words
of the hour and. declaring in alternate
breaths’ that the war is already won and
that it will last many years. But what-
ever their pet moan may be. all the anti-
conscription factions unite in . urging
that compulsory service is a direct attempt
to introduce black labor into Australia. That
there is no evidence of it, that on the con-
trary the intention has been definitely denied,
and that, in any case, if. could not be done
without the consent of Parliament, conscrip-
tion or no conscription, are facts of which
no heed is taken. Those who raise this cry
do not hope to convince. They only want to
alarm. The black labor yell is sent forth
with the sole purpose of, in this way, cor-
rupting the judgment of the large section of
patriotic Australians whose democratic
sanity is on the side of compulsory service,
but who would regard the whole national
foundation ns utterly destroyed if the doctrine
of Australia for the white man were at any
point infringed.
-* 5* >:• *
'l'ho • position is not by any means as
clouded and difficult 'as some of the good
friends of Australian democracy fear. As
things stand, the continent is given a choice
between order and chaos, between a sympa-
thetic and systematic selection of men for
service and a haphazard gathering of volun-
teers self-selected in response to the call from
overseas. Whether conscription is carried
on the popular vote or not the con-
tinued support of mir armies in Europe
is inevitable. That in putting forth
our military strength there must be some
dislocation of labor conditions is a plain
fact that no one would wish to dispute; but
it is an equally plain fact that labor condi-
tions will be less dislocated by orderly selec-
tion under the compulsory system than by
the ch«nee methods of voluntaryism. Anti-
conseriptionists may not all stand for volun-
taryism as against the saner and more
democratic idea of conscription. Some of
them would be glad to withdraw from the
war, subvert our ideals and recall our troops
altogether: but, though these add their
weight to the anti-conscription vote, the
things for which they secretly stand would
find no sympathy with any large section of
the Australian public. The actual fight is
between slipshod voluntaryism and sys-
tematised-compulsion; and the latter gives
Australia the best chance to go on with her
work. If, under the voluntary system, a
sudden turn of war events in Europe brought
our men into greater and more immediate
danger of total destruction, it is certain Aus-
tralians would rush to their aid,'no matter
what became of the shearing or the harvest.
Then labor would be really disorganised and
any mad expedient might be resorted to to
keep things moving. But, under conscription,
all such dangers would be foreseen and
arranged for, and no room would be left for
panic efforts which might open the door to
confusion. As matters now stand, no black
labor importations are contemplated ; but if
danger of a sudden revolutionary change in
this respect might lie anywhere, it would, be
in the policy of take-our-chance, every-man-
his-own shirk which the anti-conscriptionists
advocate.
That under the bitter conditions of war
things cannot run on as evenly and with as
little hardship as in time of peace is no
reason why the organised State should be
allowed to lapse into an aggregation of law-
less units'. Carried to its logical conclusion,
the arguments of the anti-conscriptionists
make for plain anarchy. If the free choice
of the citizen is to over-ride the public good
in one direction, there is no valid reason why
it should not do so in others. The first duty
of a citizen is to bear arms in the defence of
his country; and the State, not the indi-
vidual, has the right in the last resort to do
what it will with an individual life for the
good of the State. The labor problem can-
not affect the solidity of this proposition. If
there is a shortage of man power to carry out
the ordinary work of the nation on ordinary
lines, then, the same kind of organisation
which makes all the difference between slip-
shod voluntaryism and systematic compul-
sion must be applied to the shearing and the
harvest and to those industrial enterprises
which may be affected by the withdrawal of
then for military service. Hitherto there
has been no such organisation, and where
organisation does not exist there is a wastage
of effort. There is no reason to think that
the necessary work of Australia cannot, with
things decently systematised, be carried on
just as effectively as at present, even if the
need for reinforcements for our troops abroad
makes a much larger call upon our manhood ;
and while organisation as applied to
national work remains untested it is
absurd to raise the black labor bogey.
In any case, W. M. Hughes has
given his definite pledge that while the war
continues no labor, black or white, shall be
imported into the Commonwealth; and there
is no evidence of any conspiracy even of the
most shadowy sort, to defeat that promise of
the Prime Minister’s. The black labor
enthusiasm, even on the part of the Fat Men
who side with the anti-conscriptionists, died
when the heavy cost of the discolored service
was demonstrated; and nothing has since
occurred to rekindle that enthusiasm. To ask
us to believe that it is going to burst into
fresh flame because Australia is better
organised, more sure of herself and, as _ a
nation, taking larger risks for the great prin-
ciples she loves, is to put rather too big a
strain on our credulity. In a word, the
introduction of the black labor question into
the conscription controversy is humbug and
known to be humbug by those who introduced
it; and the continued waving of the bogey in
the face of the public is an insult to the
people for whose benefit it is produced.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin',
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. 11. Prior. D. M. Wright and
F. ,J. Kirby, 214 Gcorge-street, Sydney.]
WHAT IT MEANS TO BE AT WAR.
Two years ago, when the German hoisted
Matilda and set out for Paris, the job of
getting astride the world was to him the one
thing that mattered. lie had it all figured
out. ' When the first set of calculations were
upended he sat down and did some more
sums with the new factors introduced into
the arithmetic. The German was at war.
He made a lot of mistakes, but among them
was not the mistake of imagining that he
had started out to have a game of ping-
pong. And the result has been that,
by systematising his strength and his
shells' and his sausage, he has given other
people tin 1 most impressive illustration yet
produced of the difference between muddle
and order. It is possible that the German
now knows he is not going to win. But it
will take a lot yet to persuade him that he
is going to lose; and he will certainly not
lose any the more quickly because he refuses
to dope himself into a belief that, as the
riot is proceeding on other people’s premises,
it is a remote, detached sort of affair to be
carried on as a side-line. The truth is that
the German reckoned it was better to have
the disturbance at a distance instead of fir
his own main street. And he was right
there. lie also figured that war meant war
and nothing else—that playing the goat was
the game for the other fellow. He was right
there, too.
Now, Australia has been playing the goat
in this thing with great assiduity and is
still hard at it. There are material differ-
eiices between the circumstances of the two
countries, but at rock-bottom war means
the same to this Commonwealth as to
Germany—loss of life and possibly of free-
dom : the accumulation of enormous debt; a
bloody struggle for domination; the birth
of political, social and industrial problems
that resemble snakes and prickly-pear. None
of these things can be avoided by not look-
ing at them and having a picnic instead,
because the bones will refuse to go away,
and the mortgage decline to evaporate, and
the problem that was dodged will yell with
500 horse-power morning, noon and night.
The heap of slag piled up by the furnace of
war lias to be shifted. What Germany
intends doing with her accumulation is of
no importance to Australians. What they
are going to do with their own mess is their
question. But there is this certain thing,
that if Germany applies the same brains
and industry to getting well again as she
did to the preparation for war, and if Aus-
tralia ambles along in the disreputable state
of disorder she is in now, the world is going
to see over again how striking is the differ-
ence between getting a mot 7 e on and knock-
ing off for a yarn.
Australia has been yarning so long about
this war that it has come to look upon it as
if it were a football match that anyone
could butt into or demand to have adjourned.
It has 'the delusion that there need be no
inconveniences about war, and that if any
present themselves we can get rid of them by
telling the war to go to blazes. From the
day the trouble was thrust upon Australia
the politicians have tried to adjust the cir-
cumstances of the hour to the exigencies of
party politics—to the unsavory game of
juggling with votes and the nat onal exist-
ence. While the country is piling up a stu-
pendous debt to save its bacon, it has been,
loaded up with more debt to save the bacon
of politicians—to help them dodge their duty
and blind the public to the gravity of the
peril and the magnitude of the national
undertaking. The censorship was used for
this purpose, and achieved a splendid success.
Every device in the political kit has been
brought into play to make it appear that the
war could be carried on without % anyone
having to bother except the actual x’ecruit. At
the beginning of things there were demented
individuals prowling about proclaiming it to
be the duty of everybody to “spend freely/’
and they obeyed their own precept to the
letter by prodigally spending the taxpayers’
cash in great volume. Others, hardly less
insane, babbled about “Business as usual,”
Incidentally, largely because we have thus
not realised what war means, there has been
a plentiful crop of strikes, along with a
Niagara of imported goods and an inflexible
determination by Governments to go ahead
spending every dollar they can put their
greedy, reckless hands upon. The wild ex-
travagance of State .Ministries, the wilful
neglect of the Federal Government to
place its colossal business activities on the
safe ground of commercial practice, the heap-
ing up of departmental expenditure by. both
State and Federal authorities and the in-
crease of taxation for purposes other than
war are a crime against everv citizen of Aus-
tralia. It all betrays a wooden-headedness
almost beyond comprehension, and at the end
it will look like the treason it is.
Because a crowd of politicians have con-
ceived it easier and more advantageous to
themselves to revel in muddle and extrava-
gance than to face the stern fact that Aus-
tralia has an army fighting for life against a
powerful, resourceful enemy—to grapple
with the vital military and economic issues
of war—we actually have a public pol cy
organised to defeat the essential interests of
the nation. These interests are obviously
two in number —the stoppage of the holes
(1) in the army and (21 in the cashbox.
They are the things which matter to Aus-
tralia more than anything else. Beside them
every other consideration wears the appear-
ance of a mangy cat. Yet there is not one
sign in the administration of Australian
affairs that the noliticians are prepared to
assent to the disreputable animal being
driven off the premises. Of course it cannot
go on. The army can no more be main-
tained by reliance on muddle and waste and
the casual recruit than by supplying it with
a ham sandwich every Sunday. Nor can the
nation even commence to carry the burdens
of war if its powers are strained to the
limit by maintaining a ruinous pretence of
peace.
[Written to express the views of The Buli.etixj
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior, D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE TESTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now sounds the trumpet. Young democracy,
Nourished in laughter and the blameless sun,
Faces the testing that she may not shun.
And, casting off her veil of fantasy,
Looks on the naked truth. By valor won,
Some spoil of honor lies about her feet —
A shell-scarred hillside crowned with pain
and loss.
A raw grave and a rudely-fashioned cross.
And a far echo as of drums that beat.
The crystal wonder of her quiet dreams -
Cities of silver, peaks of amethyst
By whiter stars and warmer sunlight k : st.
Wide blowing fields and spray of dancing
streams
And Science combing glory from the mist
Of mightier things to come —move her no
more
In this tremendous moment when she stands
Ready to grasp with both her strong brown
hands
The crown of splendid thorns no nation
wore.
Never in all the ages that had voice
Since first man stood erect above the dust,
A mind triumphant over sloth and lust.
Did nation pause for such momentous chon*'.
Thought-free and guarding her most holy
trust,
Look with grave eyes upon the land and sea,
Weighing all dangers with unflinching mind.
The saving truth through agony to And
And dare the deed that seals the years to be.
Others at some proud leader’s eager call
Rose with a shout of vengeance on their
lips,
Rushed to the breach or manned the forts
and ships
Or joined through tears of blood war s carni-
val.
Others in serfisli yielding ’neath the whips
Of poA’er and custom faced the heedless, woe
Of wars that staggered, drunk with inso-
lence,
To red, mad ruin. Here, with brows grown
tense,
A people speaks and all the nations know.
What of the choice? In thunders loud with
doom
A surf of raging steel rolls night and day.
Petitions wrought in lightnings, nations pray
To the red god who set the tires abloom ;
And rivulets of death forever stray
Down blackened vales of pain that cannot
sleep,
But with that awful chorus in their ears
Lie shuddering and moaning in their fears,
Wondering that man has so much blood to
weep.
What of the choice? Ten thousand women
bend
Young heads in some appalling curse ot
prayer,
Sobbing their grief to Him who made them
fair
And gave them life of sorrow without end
To send destroying angels down His air
And smite and smite and smite till earth is
dust,
If in the ruin of all hope and life
May end the strong, foul thing that edged the
strife
With the unfettered horror of its lust.
What of the choice? Strong armies warring
bleed,
Fronting the loud aggressor knee, to knee.
At thrust of blade one yard of soil to free
From his fierce-taloned grasp. The daily
deed,
Untrumpeted, outshines Thermopylae.
Some new Three Hundred dies to hold the
pass ;
And where Leonidas is hourly slain,
Widowing the world, free peoples in their
pain
Bleed to slow death upon the trampled grass.
What of the choice? Our own strong sons
who gave
A loyal answer to the great world-cry
Foremost among the legions move to die,
Facing for truth a far and alien grave.
Where two had conquered, one in blood may
lie,
His wide eyes turned to stranger stars above.
His cold cheek blanching in a stranger dew.
Dead tor the secret thing his spirit knew —
Faith in the land that bore himT and her
love.
What of the choice? Behind the flame of
guns
High thought, and purpose shudder with
. affright.
The watchman gazes far athwart the night.
No herald of the coming day outruns
The signal flare that makes a sudden light
Across the path of never-silent death.
Cometh the morning? None may tell or mark
But that the sacrificial hour is dark —
And hope, grown haggard, sighs with scanty
breath.
What of the choice? Unbroken stands the
foe.
Scourged with huge ruin some small point
he yields.
The poison of his pride the stricken fields
Yet carpets with a of shame and woe.
Behind ten thousand labored rampart-shields
He nurses, drunk with loss, his Titan hate,
Eager to seize the vantage, keen of eye.
And dreaming still the sword upon his thigh
A key to turn the rusted lock of Fate.
What of the choice? No choice is here for
those
Whom Freedom nurtured at her holy breast.
The dread hour strikes. The nation at the
test,
Flamed with white purpose, to full stature
grows.
All that is highest, truest, noblest, best
Seeks the broad altar built for sacrifice.
The die is east. The bitter tale is told.
Knowing and fearing, shall our purpose
hold —
Come life, come death, we pay the freeman's
price!
Out of the storm the fierce red bolt may
fall.
Darkness and terror whelm us in the night.
We who have scorned the shame of ease for
right,
Giving in manhood’s cause our hope, our all.
Yet shall our deed be fair in all men’s sight;
At that we work all hearts shall open wide.
Though crowned with thorns and nailed upon
a cross,
The world were richer for the splendid loss
Of one young Saviour nation crucified !
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
214 George Street, Sidney.
THE “ONE BIG UNION” IDEA.
The cry of "One Big Union” which has lately
been so often raised in Australian Labor
circles is an echo of a shout that has been
heard all through the ages. It was familiar
in Greece: it stirred the Roman Republic:
it abolished the Saxon Heptarchy ; it created
the Swiss Federation. Unions exist for
mutual protection; and the bigger the union
the wider the protection. The real spirit
of unionism first made the tribe, then united
the tribes into nations. Always there was a
measure of success about the linking-up pro-
cess ; and in as far as national unionism did
not reach the ideal, the failure must be laid
to the charge of the office-bearers. The
modern trade-union effort re-created small


tribes within the nation ; the cry for “One Big
Union” is an effort back towards nationalism
We moved in that same direction when we
formed our Commonwealth —really a union
embracing all. protecting all, making all sub-
scribe to Its fighting funds and compelling
all to obey its rules. Its first purpose is to
protect its citizens. But. as in the case <sf
the trade unions, its functions go far beyond
this; in the cause of* man as in the cause of
Labor, it is prepared to extend its sympathy
to other unions, to make sacrifices for their
sake and to depend upon their moral sup-
port in its own hour of difficulty. A single
trade union against all the world would have
a poor chance; a single democratic nation
against the world would be equally doomed.
In its breadth of sympathy lies the strength
of unionism ; for sympathy begets sympathy
and, in the dreams of the future, the “One
Big Union” grows until it holds the salva-
tion of the world within its power.
* * * X-
The Federation of Man —or something so
much like it that it will put an extinguisher
on the war-drum and shut up the munition
factories for good—is thus the ideal towards
which all democracies are working, and
though there is still a long way to go, it is
good to be able to believe that never has
such progress been made as in the past two
years. In 1014 France and Britain
struck against a set of conditions sought to
be imposed'by one who aimed at becoming
their tyrannical master. They joined with
Belgium; and Russia threw in with them.
The Australian union responded in sympathy.
Though not directly menaced until it actually
joined the'great strike, Australian democrats
could not stand by and help the enemy by
continuing to act as if nothing had happened.
In the struggle which followed blood has
flowed like water; huge engines of death have
wrought terrific woe. The agonies and tears
of past ages have seemed a holiday smile
by contrast with the new horror. Yet through
it all the steadfastness of democratic peoples,
facing the awful present for their faith in
the grander future, gives such a promise of
the consummation of the “One Big Union”
that it seems to be worth the price.
For more than two years the critical test
of the spirit of human unionism has gone
on. Ever since the start Australian unionists
have been contributing lives to the cause; ■
now the time has come when the Australian
union as a whole 'S asked to make a definite
levy to see the great struggle through. It
is the crucial testing of the wo. of our
unionism, and our own direct future as well
as Qur share in the world’s future hangs upon
cur answer. A noisy faction yells to us to
safeguard our own interests by blacklegging
on mankind. In every big strike that voice
has been heard. Always there is someone
who shrinks from the test, who cries that
lie has done enough and who prophesies ruin
In. clinging to an ideal and seeing things
faithfully through to the end. The anti-
conscriptionists cry that human life is
sacred, just as blacklegging strike-breakers
have always cried that their right to work
for the missus and kids was sacred, even
when opposed to the interests of other
women and children. Here the issue is plain
and. straightforward. A levy on the Aus-
tralian union is asked. If we go back on
our big human principles and refuse to tax
ourselves in blood, we throw the idea of
one big union back and weaken the pulse
of democracy in every land. The fact that
we may go on sending loose private contri-
butions will avail nothing. Democracy,
where it had freest voice, will have failed
and nothing will be able to remedy that.
[Written to express the views of The Bulletin,
within the limitations prescribed under the War
Precautions Act, by S. H. Prior, D. M. Wright and
F. J. Kirby, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
In the Matter of whether it is Better to
Wait at Home for the Enemy to
Arrive or to Go After Him with
an Axe.
Call the evidence from Belgium
The Report of the British Committee
on German Outrages (sworn and tested
RY CROSS-EXAMINATION) :
"From the moment the German army crossed the
frontier murder, rape, arson and pillage began.
At Andenne almost immediately the slaughter- of
the inhabitants began. Machine-guns were brought
into play. The German troops were said to be,
for the most part, drunk, and they murdered and
ravished unchecked.... One man was placed close to
a machine-gun which was fired through him. His
wife brought his body home on a wheelbarrow.
At Haecht several children had been murdered;
one of two or three years old was found nailed to
the door of a farmhouse by its hands and feet, a
crime which seems almost incredible, but the evidence
for which we feel bound to accept.
As the German soldiers came along the street a
small child, about two years of age, came into the
middle of the street. The soldiers were walking in
twos. The first line of two passed the child. One
of the second line drove his bayonet with both
hands into the child’s stomach, lifting the child into
the air on his bayonet and carrying it away on his
bayonet.
On August 24 men, women and children were
actually pushed into the front of the German position
outside Mons.
Two women were raped “by a great many Ger-
mans.” Their husbands were shot.
Some German soldiers drove a matron’s daughter
up into a loft to rape her. She (the daughter) was
eight and a half months gone in pregnancy. Two of
the soldiers raped her. The child was born the
following day.
Outside Liege, a woman, perhaps 28 or 00 years
old, stark naked, was tied to a tree. At her feet
were two little children, about three or four years
old. All three were dead. The woman’s bosom was
covered with blood and her body was covered with
blood and black marks.
Brought into Liege on a fire-cart, a whole heap
of corpses of civilians. Bits were blown out of
their heads. The shots which killed them must
have been fired at very close range.
Within Liege all the houses in the R-ie des Pitteurs
were burnt on the same night. The Germans burnt
them by means of incendiary bombs.
Other parties of Germans were making house-to-
house visits, dragging out men and shooting them.
In the Place de I’University they were bringing out
the women and girls. About 20 were brought out.
Each of them was held by the arms. They were
made to lie on tables which had been'brought into
the square. About 15 of them were then violated.
Each of them was violated by about 12 soldiers.
The ravishing went on for about one and a half
hours. The Red Cross took the victims away to
the hospital. While this was going- on other Ger-
mans were burning the houses in the square.
There were three German soldiers, one officer and
two privates. The two privates held the baby and
the officer took out his sword and cut the baby’s
head off. The head fell on the floor, and the soldiers
kicked the body of the child into a corner and
kicked the head after it. After five or six minutes
the two soldiers seized the mother and put her on the
ground. She resisted them and they then pulled
all her clothes off her until she was quite naked.
The officer then violated her while one soldier held
her by the shoulders and the other by the arms.
After the officer, each soldier in turn violated her.
Call the evidence from Franee:—
The Report of Commission of Inquiry
APPOINTED jilV THE I 'RESIDEXT OF THE
French Republic (sworn and tested by
CROSS EXAM IX A TlO X ) :
Pillage, rape, incendiarism and murder arc com-
mon practices of our enemies.
The Germans boasted of having burnt alive in
one barn ii father and five children in spite of their
supplications and- cries , for mercy. Charred human
remains were afterwards iound in the barn.
At Saint-Denis-les-ISebais, on 7tli September,- a
Uhlan forced a woman, X , to undress herself
while he threatened her with his gun; then he
threw her on a bed and violated her, while the
mother-in-law. powerless to interef'ere, strove to
prevent her grandson, aged eight years, from seeing
this horrible sight.
On the same day at the Hamlet of Marais, in the
Commune of Joqy-sur-Morin, the three daughters of
M. X , aged 18, 15 and 13, were with their
mother, who was sick, when two German soldiers
arrived, seized the eldest and dragged her into an
adjoining room, where each violated her. While
one was so engaged the .other stood at the door, and,
with his rifle and bayonet, kept off the maddened
mother.
Produce some of tlie evidence of Lord Bryce
before the House of Lords in regard to tlie
horrors in Armenia :
The whole Armenian population of each town and
village was cleared out. Some of the men were
thrown into prison, where they were put to death,
the rest of the men with the women and children
were marched away some little distance and sepa-
rated, the men being taken among the hills, where
they were slaughtered. The women and children
and old men were driven along by the soldiers day
after day; beaten jn- left behind to perish. Not a
few of the women were stripped naked and made to
travel in that condition beneath a burning sun.
Some of the’ mothers went mad and threw away
their children, being unable to carry them further.
Nearly the whole Armenian population of from 8000
to 10,000 in Trebizond was destroyed.
.TURORS OF AUSTRALIA—MEN AND
WOMEN, FATHERS AND MOTHERS
OF CHILDREN—YOU WILL PLEASE
CONSIDER YOUR VERDICT.
[John Bare, 211 George-street, Syilney.]
• ■
Democracy’s First War Test.
When time has given the historian proper
perspective the decision of Australia on
Saturday will rank among the great events
in the history of Democracy. It is not
Australia’s size or importance in the scheme
of things that counts. It is the fact that
for the first time a nation with complete
franchise has been asked to decide for peace
or war. Hitherto wars have been made by
kings and statesmen, by councils and legisla-
tures ; now the individual citizens of the
nation are asked to make their choice
between temporary ease and ordered sacrifice.
Up to the present Australia has not been
in the war as a nation in the truest sense.
Though all her citizens have helped to bear
the burden, the biggest thing that a nation
can give—her life blood —has only been
offered in an unequal and irregular way by
volunteers. Now the nation must speak ;
and if her voice is for sacrifice in the cause
of humanity, the world will for the first
time witness the spectacle of a democracy, of
free choice, accepting pain and loss with its
eyes set on the greater good to come. Satur-
day’s vote will be a lead to other democratic
peoples the world over. It will be a test of
the worth of our freedom and theirs: and on
its result the thought of nations may be
shaped. Any student of world events knows
how the great tide of historical movements
has taken its set and direction from com-
paratively small events. So the amount of
thought and conscience put into the ballot
at Balmain and Collingwood may be more
important than the big Russian offensive or
the next defeat of the Kaiser’s ships at sea.
[D. M. Wright, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
»
Why Australia Should Vote “No.”
It is a good job that the poll is to be taken
on Saturday. Heaven may know what
fresh reasons for voting “No” would have
been manufactured if there had been another
week to go; but the Devil knows best what
another month would have brought into
circulation. In one district a yarn was told
that compulsory service was being urged so
that everybody might be compelled to live at
Canberra. This threw the populace into a
fever of apprehension, from which it was
only rescued by the more terrifying news
that 7462 Esquimaux had arrived on the
last iceberg at Cairns and were devouring
all the seals. The day before yesterday
urgent telegrams were received by the Pre-
sident. of the Shire Council at Fatheader-
wildie telling him that a fleet of steamers
was bringing the entire brunette population
of Alabama to work in the paper mills at
Alice Springs. The publican at Rester-
weary also showed an important telegram
to the local population, and tlie population
felt its whiskers sticking out like a dandy
brush when it read: —
Sydney. Sunday,—The conscriptionists admit that
six Thibetans attending a school of instruction at
New York to become proficient in driving yaks have
been engaged to come to Australia to practise their
profession.
But it was felt necessary by the more ardent
barrackers against keeping the army rein-
forced to get in some finer work. There-
fore allegations were furtively whispered
that the result of conscription would he to —
Cure Hughes of indigestion.
Cause a pianola famine.
Abolish the baby bonus.
Make beer .£ 7 10s. a pot.
Strengthen the Germans.
Stop the wil’ rabbi’ industry.
Prevent anyone going out after dark.
Make surf-batliing a penal offence.
Increase the price of Christinas hams.
Now there is no overtaking these skilfully-
designed reasons why we should not patch
up the holes in our army in less than 10
years. And as the scrap will be nearly over
so far as the Anzaes are concerned by that
time, the poll is not being taken a d too
soon. Some patriot might wak< up on
Monday to start a yarn that the result of
voting “I'es” would be to put some ginger
into the quitters—and that would be the
very deuce of a lie to nail.
[F. ,T. Kirbv'j 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Exemption Courts.
Smitueks. one of Sydney’s police-court
. magistrates, was called off after being an
Exemption Tribunal for about a week ; and
The Bulletin hopes he will stay as far
away as possible. lie apparently never
realised that he was a Tribunal; lie seems
to have thought his job was, not to do jus-
tice according to the law, but to push into
the army by ridicule those who had good
reasons under the law for staying out. The
working of Exemption Tribunals with tolera-
tion and decency is one of the most important
points in connection with any system of
compulsory service. It is their business to
hear applications on their merits, recognis-
ing that the Tribunal’s very important duty
.is to give decisions on the basis of the
regulations and that applicants are entitled
to put their claims forward without fear
of being made the objects of ridicule or of
provoking the mirth of jocose officials.
The financial and domestic circumstances
of many humble people may seem ludi-
crous to the more affluent, but they are
horribly serious to the individuals prin-
cipally concerned. A man may make an
untenable application and yet be no more
guilty of censure than a beak who has his
judgments capsized by a higher Court. It
should be the special care of the Govern-
ment to see that no man sits on one of these
Tribunals who is not known to appreciate
the grave responsibilities of his post and the
very important part that the Exemption
Court must play in any well-ordered scheme
of conscription. A few Tribunals presided
over by persons of the Smitiiers tempera-
ment would cover the most wisely devised
system with derision.
The Faith-without-Works Crowd.
The eagerness of some people for what they
call Home Defence, now that the country is
invited to step into line with the democracy
of the world a/:d hold the breach against the
Hun, carries a placard marked “Suspicion”
across its shoulders. When the basis of a
citizen arm t was laid, there was plenty
of opportun/cy for home defenders to volun-
tarily take their places in the ranks and show
that they really did think this continent
might be the better for an army to meet any
danger which could threaten. But the loud
crew who now'profess to see the threat of
destruction hanging over the Commonwealth
were as little inclined to enter the citizen
ranks two or three years ago as they are now
to vote Yes at the referendum. Many men
who valued Australian liberty did join the
army in those times of apparent peace but
real danger; and the people who thus
made good, by some sacrifice of their
time and comfort, a claim to sincere
belief in Home Defence are invariably
on the side of compulsory service. An
untrained man is, in modern warfare,
of no use whatever either to protect
his own garden gate or to go out and smash
the enemy at a distance. How many trained
men are there among those who are now yell-
ing to keep Australia’s manhood at home?
If the anti-conscriptionists did not regard the
defence of Australia as worth a few months
spent in making themselves fit to take some
part in it, how much faith is to be put in
their declaration that they regard it as all
important? The whole yell is humbug. Faith
without works has always been a dead thing ;
and it isn’t made any more live by the extent
and volume of the discord which is raised to
prevent the solid arguments of conscription-
lsts reaching the ears of the voters.
[David M. Wright, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
The Misinterpreted Yell.
The Consul-General for Japan was moved
last week to refer to the conscription con-
troversy in Australia. Speaking to his coun-
trymen in Sydney he said :
Since this question has been brought forward I
have been several times informed by my Australian
friends, as well as bv the Japanese residents here,
iliat our nation has been frequently referred to by
public speakers for and against the conscription pro-
posals. While, on the one hand, those in favor of
conscription had urged as an argument upon their
side that conscription was necessary in order to
defend Australia from Japanese aggression, those
upon the other side had asserted that, if Australians
were conscripted, there would be an influx of Japanese
labor into the Commonwealth. Thus it will be seen
that the references to Japan are awkward and un-
pleasant from both sides, and, I may add, quite
baseless.
One would have thought that the remembrance of
the part which Japan had already taken in the
present great world crisis would have been sufficient
to disprove any suggestions of ulterior motives on
the part of Japan, i realise how unpleasant it must
be to you to have to listen to and read about state-
ments which are so misleading and so cruelly untrue;
but I strongly advise you individually to comport
yourself, in these trying circumstances, with the
same dignified forbearance of which the Imperial
Japanese Government has set you so strong an
example. It must be left to time to prove how
mistaken those are who make such allegations against
t.lie honor of our country, and 1 think and hope
that those who are most voluble upon this subject
will yet live to see and acknowledge their error.
There are just a few things that require to
be said about this. One is that there is a
considerable measure of truth and propriety
in the Consul-General’s remarks. Another
is that be ought not to forget that he is
living in a country which is making a
great experiment in democracy—in one
where the public yell sounds louder than it
does in his own. There may have been talk
of the kind he refers to. If there' lias been
it was merely noise, and the measure of
the Consul’s appreciation of the part that
noise plays in popular government will be
found in the weight lie attaches to it. If
this paper lias ever advocated anything at
all it has been and still is a White Australia.
If it stands for anything now it is for Aus-
tralia dealing squarely and honorably with
her allies, of whom Japan is one. And The
Bulletin does so, firmly convinced that the
alliance with Japan against the German
should be decently observed by Australia
in the interests, among other tilings, of the
Commonwealth’s desire to keep this nation
white, and that the best interests of both
countries will be served in this way. There
is no reflection on the integrity of the
Japanese in that view. The Japanese are
not specially thought of in connection with
}} hite Australia. There are other Asiatics.
There are Africans. There are Islanders.
Many of them are actually British subjects,
and Australia has its mind on them quite
as much as on the subjects of Japan. There
is no animadversion on black or brow >r
yellow. Our whole objection is one that ic
Japanese can agree with, for they know as well
as the inhabitants of this continent that the
mixing of people of different races would be
as much an evil in Japan as anywhere else.
This paper is fairly certain that the
Japanese Government no more wishes to
see Yokohama populated by half-breeds—
even half-breed Europeans—than the people
of Australia wish to see Sydney in the same
unhappy condition. So far as the. advocacy
of conscription and a White Australia hav-
ing any sinister reference to Japan goes,
the reverse is the ease. At any rate, so far
as this paper's advocacy of both is con-
cerned, conscription is urged because The
Bulletin wants to see Australia play the
game with herself and her allies, of whom
Japan is one, and a White Australia is
urged because The Bulletin is hopeful
that; the objection at Tokio to a mixed Japan
is as real as our own dislike of a mixed
Australia.
-* -
The Squatter’s Income.
The Pastoralists’ Federal Council, at its
annual convention in Sydney the other day.
decided to request the Federal and State
Governments to amend the law relating to
income taxes so that the incidence of taxa-
tion shall be on the average, of the past,
three years’ profits. If this demand is"
swallowed by the Federal Government it
means that a section of tin 1 community
which is rapidly gathering large and unex
pected masses of wealth as a result, of ti
war will practically dodge contributing to
the nation’s revenue when such contribu-
tions are wanted badly. This position arises
from exceptional circumstances. The prin-
ciple of taking three past years as’a basis
is fair enough when such years are normal.
But in the ease of the squatters the three-
years period would include the toughest
and most general drought Australia lias seen
for a generation. During that time the
majority of squatters derived no income, but
mostly lived on their fat. It would be easy
for most of them to show that so far from
an income they had a loss. Out of the three
years suggested so innocently drought rav-
aged their business for half the time at
least. Only one year would show an aver-
age profit. If these men were still hard up
we should have to he sympathetic. But
prices for wool and meat have soared, and
are still going skywards. Every sale sees
record prices, and the squatters have secured
immense returns. It is argued that these
are the result of the drought to a large
extent and not owing to the war. That is
rubbish. Our droughts do not affect the
world’s markets for wool and meat appre-
ciably. Had there been no war the effect
of the last sharp pinch would have been
mainly local. It would have had little or
no influence upon the wool market; none
upon the meat trade outside the Common-
wealth. Live stock in Australia would have
been dear, though not as dear as it is to-
day; but the value of both wool and meat,
would have kept on parity with London,
which would have been practically normal.
Therefore, while the squatters, big and
little, would have had • to pay very high
prices for stock to make good the losses o '
the drought, they would have had to sell
their produce at normal rates. The margin
would have been small, and it would have
taken them years to recover from this
drought, as it has from other droughts. The
war altered everything. It created an
extraordinary demand for the things they
have to sell. That they should make the
request they have done at such a time is
therefore discreditable. Considering what
these people have at stake in the war, it
might even be called disgusting.
.—-
Eliminating' the Loafer.
“Bimit” : National conscription and national
organisation to keep the wheels moving in
the absence of those citizen-soldiers who
have gone to smash the Kaiser should open
the gate of opportunity to all social theo
rists who desire to eliminate the loafer. The
motive power of Socialism —the thing from
which it gets its punch—is the desire to make
the rich loafer toil that some of the burden
may he lifted from the shoulders of the poor.
However wild and extravagant the yell, and
whatever color the particular Socialist pro-
paganda may take, it always comes back to
this; for here is sure ground and a genuine
human appeal may be made upon it. The pre-
sent offers the great chance. Under the stress
of war and with desire to uphold her demo-
cratic honor, Australia throws all her fight-
ing force into the field, and a plain neces-
sity arises to organise all her working force
which remains at home. As a start along
these lines a new Vagrancy Act should he
devised setting forth that a vagrant in Aus-
tralian law is a person who does not earn
his own living. No person, however rich or
poor, who is less than 55 years of age and
free from Serious ailment, should be allowed
to evade service. A monthly return from
all citizens to a bureau, which could readily
inquire into the facts of the ease, should he
insisted upon. In this return would be
scheduled the nature of the citizen's employ-
ment, the approximate number of hours
spent in it. together with a statement: as to
whether such employment was satisfactory
and congenial or whether better service could
be rendered to the State in other directions.
The reform would involve no very grave
difficulties of administration, if begun in this
simple way. and would represent tremen-
dous progress along the lines which Socialism
demands. Further, there is solid reason for
making the beginning. Loafers, rich and
poor, who really live on public charity and
are at all times a load on the State, become
an intolerable burden in war-time. If
Australia got the best out of her citizens
she could at ordinary times do twice as
much work; and, though the call of the war
may he very great, those left at home when
the last conscript goes to the Front would
he more than enough to keep things going


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Biaud z, the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have vohintanly
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acqi c by
the Stirling Bonding Co., Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W.:
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
C A/'ll? TV I 1MIT1?1\ Head Office : Corner Pitt
I LIMiIGU. & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Newman’s
Sauce
“Better
than Either”
A Worcester Sauce of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
An Australian Triumph. Get a Bottle from the Grocer.
up to the usual standard if we were all
properly organised and the loafer was
entirely eliminated. Australia has learned
to fight with some system; it is a natural
gradation from systematic fighting to sys-
tematic labor. And the first necessity is
that none shall evade toil.
The Exhaustion of the Teuton.
For a day or two last week it looked as if
the Roumanian was holding his own. At
the beginning of this week there was sub-
stantial evidence that the enemy was hitting
him hard. There were stories of Roumanian
retirements on both Fronts and German ad-
vances in the same direction and of help
swiftly rushing towards the points of danger.
The assistance may arrive in time to be of
service; the Roumanian armies may repel
the invader; the snow may get into the
German’s boots and bog his commissariat de-
partment. But it is possible that other
things may happen. There is no way of tell-
ing. The only really certain thing is that
the enemy is still turning into the wildest
ridicule the yarns about his exhaustion.
Compelled to add immensely to the length of
his front at a moment when he was accused
of being in a state of frantic anxiety to
shorten it. he has shown resource which is
probably making a lot of “experts” suspect
they spoke in a hurry. Roumania would be
a big prize for the German to get his paw
on. There is food there and oil. He wants
both, badly. The strategic value of conquest
would be almost incalculable. It is too early
yet to conclude that there has been miscalcu-
lation and muddle in the Balkans campaigp,
'but the contrast between the methods on one
side and the other is a fairly conspicuous
feature of the proceedings. Meanwhile nothing
is happening thereabouts or anywhere else to
justify preparations for a maffick before
Christmas. Even the news that the Premier
of Austria has stopped a bullet in a pub
may have no more bearing on the war than
the sittings of the Mesopotamia Commission.
The plain commonsense of the situation is
that the Huns are fighting with fury and
skill, and that all ideas about the disturbance
having reached the last round are entitled to
enthusiastic derision.
Railways-Minister Hugh McKenzie
suggested in the Victorian Parliament the
other day that his department might be
helped out of the financial ditch if it hired
an experienced investigator to find the
weak spots in local administration. Vic-
toria’s three Commissioners — Norman.
McClelland and .Tones —are all undoubted
experts in their own particular fields. The
kind of investigator really needed is some
sort of efficiency-expert, who would tell these
experts how to make the best business use
of their special knowledge. That sort of
man needn’t know anything about railway
management. But he needs to be an
organiser. Some such person, say, as
Deep rat. of the Broken Hill Prop.—-a man
who isn’t a great mining-engineer and is
less of a metallurgist, yet knows how to
make the best commercial use of both engi-
neers and metallurgists.
“P.X.”: The Federal Parliamentary War
Committee has asked the States to tell the
British Government that only farm immi-
grants are desired until some time after the
guns have cooled. And what are we going
to do with the farmers? The idea that a
man with about 1§ pence and no experi-
ence can arrive to-day and make a
living at agriculture to-morrow dies hard.
If a man has to make a farm, then, allowing
that the land costs him nothing and that
he has command of £5OO for plant and
stock, he will not keep himself, on the
average, in less than three years. I have a
fair knowledge of most of the land which
the Government has cut up for settlement in
Western N. S. Wales during the last few
years, and I am prepared to take five oaths
that not 20 per cent, of the “farms” that
have been acquired from the Crown during
the last four years have kept the bills paid
yet. The Canadian railways do a bit better:
they make the farms, put a certain area
under crop, and the buyer steps into a going-
concern. Even then, however, with our
uncertain weather conditions, the job would
be a precarious one, and the outgoings in
the first years likely to beat any man who
hasn’t a pockqtful to start with. Yanko
lias been going for a good while now ; yet
the State’s loss over it in the past year ex-
ceeded £130,000. Included was such an item
as this: “Loss on growing fodder for Com-
mission’s horses, £lO5B” —a queer advertise-
ment for an irrigation settlement. I don’t
say there is no money in farming. There
is; but it is not quick money, and because
the business is largely a gamble a man
needs to have two years’ tucker assured
before he tackles it.
Died at Hobart the other day; Robin
Hood the younger. He had turned down his
namesake’s profession for bookselling, and
probably found it more profitable. Born in
London in 1828 lie had lived in the Speck
for S 3 out of his 88 years.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “To-night’s the Night’’
Criterion “Romance”
Palace “Happy-Go-Lucky O Shea”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Garden The Red Dandies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Cinema Star”
Royal “xV Royal Divorce”
King’s “Lovers’ Lane”
Princess’s “The Matinfie Girl,” etc.
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Arcadia. St. Kilda The Pink Dandies
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Park i Wirths’ Circus
In “La Tosca” the Gonsalez Co. was too
rough and ready for the subtleties- that sur-
round Scarpia. The chorus was rough and
almost ready. On several occasions it filled
the Opera House with its «ong right up to
time. Otherwise it limped just behind the
conductor. Tenor Cappelli (Cavaradossi),
who was not at his best, was coldly polite to
his Tosca (Mrs. de Revers). But in pro-
ducing her strident soprano the lady is apt
to shake her face all over, and that isn’t cal-
culated to produce passionate emotion in the
leading gentleman. Puccini wrote most of
the score to suit a Scarpia of refined devilry
—for the Devil is a perfect gentleman when
he uses a lorgnette. Now, admittedly the
tall and massive Belloni was an imposing
villain, and, vocally, he improved on many
previous appearances. But he was too beefy
in his conception of the part. There was
plenty of noise and dust but no conviction
when he chased Tosca’s pink feathers round
half a yard of Chippendale chair. What
big men these Italian singers are! When
the huge Cesaroni bustled in to the first
scene as the fugitive Angelotti, the whole
church didn’t seem large enough to hide him.
Mosca—curiously enough, for an Italian —
gave us a Sacristan who was a cross between
an indifferent clown and the corner-man in
a Christy Minstrel turn. The orchestra did
its moderate best, all things considered.
Ilappy-go-Lucky O’Shea is still the pride
of Napoleon’s army at the Palace, and the
purtiest imitation of a bailiff, when he dis-
guises himself to escape arrest for debt, that
this journal can recall in a long and inti-
mate experience of the faculty. Doone has
been playing the part for four weeks now
in Sydney, and he hasn’t mentioned any
likelihood of an early change.
“To-night’s the Night” still flourishes a
well-nourished leg at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
One of this seething world’s delights is well-
nourished legs in costly tights; so, spite of
the scowling critic’s mockings, Success goes
by with a flash of stockings. (Note: This
advt. may be recited by snakes anywhere in
Australia without fee or charge of any kind.)
Time to roll up the swag again. Bob
Brothers! “While the Billy Boils” finishes
on Friday, at Sydney Royal, and a show-
man’s tear will help to extinguish the dying
camp-fire. So long, and better luck next
time!
“LA TOSCA,” AT SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Barontini the Bad and Captain Caesaroni
officiate at the death-scene.
To frustrate the variegated weather that
Sydney has been tolerating with character-
istic Christian fortitude, Edward Brans-
combe lias had his open-air Garden Theatre
(Sydney) fitted with rain-proof awnings
and specially covered-in stands. Now the
parties responsible for the disreputable ways
of young summer can do their worst with-
out preventing the Dandies doing their best.
Has Anybody Here Seen Kelly— Jamie
Kelly, the Tunnel ForemanV He arrived at
Sydney Tivoli on Saturday, his union having
come out on strike for higher wages or less
songs or something. No other artists accom-
panied the poor dusty bho.v who sings and
tell yarns, so he had to start work on the job
alone. Besides Kelly there are the Follies
and the Press Agent.
*
That delightful serial, “Romance,” now
running at Sydney Criterion, is to be con-
tinued in our next for another 10 days.
On Sydney screens this week: —
Lyceum: “The Parson of Panamint,” a fighting
apostle who exterminated gambling by the simple
method of joining in and winning all the gamblers’
cash; “Plain Jane,” the romance of a designing
boarding-house slavey and the shy star-boarder ; and
Charlie Chaplin in “The Pawnbroker” (not to be
confused with the tragedy' presented by llolman,
Colien and Co.).
Crystal Palace: Chaplin in “The Pawnbroker”;
and “The Wolf Woman,” in which an adventuress has
a head-on collision with her good looks and her
admirers.
Lyric and Empress: “The Big Push,” the official
film of the British offensive on the Somme, showing
every phase of the advance.
Hoyt’s: “A Million a Minute,” in which beauty-
actor Francis X. Bushman juggles with love, revenge
and $10,000,000 ; and “The Family Stain,” a tragedy
that won’t wash clean.
A week of “Under Fire” at Melbourne
Royal is giving Julius Knight a chance to
test his wind as an exceptionally active
hero under modern military conditions. A
gentle salience about the middle waistcoat
button suggests that Julius is getting rather
heavy for the trench-scaling exploits and
protean adventures of Captain Larry Red-
mond ; but the actor manages to circumvent
the dreadful Strassmann and save the Eng-
lish Army without an.\* sign!? of perspiration
on his brow. Knight is not so handsome
SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
Two chorus gentlemen inform Russ-Carmen
that they adore her.
and soldierlike as our original exponent,
Frank Harvey, but he has enough Irish
graces of speech to make him at least a
blind girl’s darling. Captain Strassmann
is’now presented with a peremptory vocabu-
lary by Boyd Irwin ; Herbert Leigh is fully
occupied with the official agitation of Sir
George Wagstaff; and Francee Anderson
gives a new and uninspired version of
Jeanne’s grief when her credulous old
parent is shot by the Huns. Barring those
changes, the chief characters are played
by the people who previously brought
home the horrors of war to a largely unin-
structed public. Next Saturday “A Royal
Divorce” will throw a blood-red light on
more ancient scenes of carnage.
Harry Plimmer is again donning the
blameless black of parson Singleton in a
revival of “Lovers’ Lane” at Melbourne
King's. Plimmer seems the same holy
squanderer of poor relief and moral plati-
tudes that first appeared at Melbourne
Princess’s five or six years ago. As of old,
he hands out board and lodging to lone
strangers with magnificent disregard of
domestic consequences. Also he accepts
jeers and all uncharitableness as if he were
receiving an illuminated address. Sweet
Mary Larkin, as played by a new lady, Ena
Shanahan, is like a ray of rather wintry
sunshine in his dingy existence, but her
voice is a soothing circumstance. The Bert
Bailey people, who formerly roared lustily
on Dad Rudd’s selection, are condemned to
wear Wayback fashions and mournful ex-
pressions as the other members of Plimmer’s
flock. Bert Bailey dodders and pipes dole-
fully as Uncle Bill, the ancient' bellringer;
Duggan is a deacon filled with silent misery;
and Miss Roberts and Miss Fanning pour
undiluted vinegar into the gentle delibei i
tions of the church committee. Simplicity
Johnson, who was a lovable orphan when
Lizette Parkes played the character, is now
an impertinent hussy endowed by Clarice
Hardwicke with too little simplicity and
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES, SYDNEY.
Jack Cannot 'as a Mexican desperado, and
George Welch, the perpetual boozer.
too much Johnson. The stiff and foolish
character of Herbert Woodbridge reduces
Guy Hastings to dramatic impotence;
and Miss Adeson, as his divorced missus,
has to say “I understand” to various expla-
nations, and gets hot and strident in the
tumult. A voice that breathes hard over
Plimmer’s Eden belongs to Miss Mattie;
and herein experience cannot change nor
greasepaint hide Miss Alfreda Bevan’s infi-
nite monotony. “Lovers’ Lane” is for 12
nights, and deserves less. It is mush.
“The Cinema Star” will keep Melbourne
Majesty’s busy through the Pace weeks. It
is not the brightest musical play that ever
was, but it is sufficiently better than some
of them to be received with thanks.
Wirths’ Circus building in Melbourne is
open again for one month only, and the
show promises to make good business for
its allotted period. The performance has
some capital features in the ring, and over
the ring, and on the improved stage at the
far end of the capacious structure. Even
the lions that stand on wooden stools most
of the time, and go bounding around their
big circular cage when “Capt.” Lindo cracks
his whip at them, are more exciting lions
than usual, on account of their youth and
high spirits. There is not a dull moment
whilst Lindo is putting those active and
moderately-intelligent animals through their
lessons, nor when their comrade in captivity,
the big brown bear, is dutifully providing
comic relief. Frank Hiding’s seals, how-
ever, are a dull turn until the. star artist of
the slippery creatures plays a tune on some
bells and otherwise asserts his claim to be
the most advanced seal in the business.
Maximo, who is billed as the renowned
Drunk on the Wire, compares favorably
with the best previous wire-walkers this
country has seen, and the seven young Japs
who gather together for acrobatics and bal-
ancing purposes are in some respects won-
derfully clever. In the old-fashioned horse
items Wirtlis’ Circus moves more briskly
with the times. Nobody jumps through
hoops of paper or over strips of bunting.
No elementary feats on a board-backed
steed are inflicted on a jaded public. The
members of the Royal Family of Wirth
give a neatly-concerted show in the ancient
arena, and their riding in general, and the
agility of May Martin Wirth in particular,
makes the audience glad. The sturdy
young May does what only the best male
riders have done of yore. On Saturday she
made a particular impression by resuming
her activities after meeting with a nasty
mishap. For the rest of the bill there are
the elephants, whose leisurely proceedings
are not too protracted, the Loretta Twins
on horizontal bars, a flying trapeze turn
which is rather tedious, a few conventional
horse acts, and the long-winded clowns. The
clowns’-poor jokes have the assistance of a
very capable ringmaster in Welby Cooke.
At Melbourne Princess’s the reign of the
“Follies of Pleasure” is nearly ended, and
the theatre will have a week in which to
recover from its epidemic of legs before the
Shakspeare co. returns on Derby Night.


bOORD & SON
IONDON, ENGLAND *1
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
r
YG
&
DT
i
. Swift & Company lAd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence Sit., Sydney.
A DELIGHTFUL STIMULANT.-.
ame
RED STAR WHISKY
fdh
The Brighton Beach
-A NOVELTY IN LOUNGE SUITS.
One of the few new productions for this Summer —•
in style, distinctive, and in material novel and
pleasing. It is a wool and cotton cloth of Biscuit
shade open in weave, and consequently cool but
substantial enough to hold the suit in shape. : Made
in the style illustrated, unlined for washing.
Heady to wear, 45/- We pay postage.
Please state chest, waist and inside leg-measure-
ments.
New supplementary catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Auditorium these times is
rarely open except on Saturdays, when the
Taits run Pop. Concerts and the bill-topper
is probably Walter Kirby, or Phil Newbury,
as the case may be. Also the Athenaeum
Hall is a field for local musical endeavor
once a week, and the programme at the
Town Hall is a fortnightly Municipal Con-
cert, or an alternative organ recital. But
when Cup week comes with its crowds there
will be something doing at these familiar
haunts of music and song.
At Hoyt’s, Melbourne, on Saturday the
audience enjoyed an hour and a quarter of
Olga Petyova in "The Scarlet Woman.” Olga
has many vermilion moments in the society
of elderly. rakes until she encounters the One
True Man, and decides on a life of humdrum
piety and early bed. But it requires much
expiation and explanation on the part of the
lady to convince her hero that her gaudy
nights are over. In fact, she has to go
through the form of suiciding violently from
despair before he concedes that she is lit to
share his home and income. In the other
Hoyt feature, "A Battle of Hearts,” a strange
love-story seems to get' involved in unneces-
sary side-issues, and several times is in
danger of being lost in the confusion.
The holes caused in the Melbourne Tivoli
bill by the departure of Dan Ahern and
Little Billie de Rex were filled on Saturday
by one Merlin and a pair of roller-skaters
called the Skatelles. Merlin endeavors to
satisfy the audience with a small pill of
parlor magic heavily coated with patter
made in U.S.A. The Skatelles, who dance
smartly on their skates, also annoy the popu-
lace with the Yankee accent. The Strollers,
still deeply entrenched in the second part,
are revelling in a fresh programme wherein
new songs are sung, some old jests revived,
and a scene from “Borneo and Juliet” humor-
ously dealt with.
The Pink Dandies continue to make them-
selves pleasant to St. Kilda (Vic.). They
seem a light and inoffensive party as yet, but
with fresher programmes and more rehearsal
they promise to improve as the season goes
on. Their present weakness lies in their
humorous items, for which Joseph Brennan
and Harry de Kofeeck are mainly responsible.
Joseph is the more gifted comedian of the
two, but neither of them is possessed of the
necessary devil. Nigel Brock’s Dandies are
much stronger in voices. The soubrette,
Pearlie McKenzie, has a piquant little
warble, and the soprano, Lalla Ward, makes
a most charming noise. Also, there are a
graceful tenor, Robert Agnew, and a good
Lass, Ford Waltham; and the tall young
baritone, Marshall Lawrence, has a voice
large enough to sing lullabies to a baby
elephant.
“LOVERS’
LANE,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Bert Bailey, dis-
guised as
Uncle Bill.
Maggie Moore has dropped into the cap-
able Anderson stock eo. at Adelaide Tivoli,
and revels in her part of Judy O’Trot. The
management describes it as a “rollicking”
play, and it is all that. The new team of
Dandies is doing well at Austral Gardens,
having for the first time, in this new home,
an orchestra, an awning when needed, and
a first-class restaurant. *At the Majestic,
Rosie Rifle and the Newmans are good
turns, and the “revue” team continues.
Harry Burgess is very funny in this, and
Lydia Carne can always strike a patch by
imitating Daisy Jerome as seen shouting
that strange delusion of hers, that a girl
whose lover seems too'ardent in a boat will
be safer if she .Pulls for the Shore.
In the Maoriland University exams, the
other day Angell and Death deadheated in
the practical physics class.
The war isn’t over, but Sydney Uni.
already hangs at least 25 decorations on its
chest. Fifteen members of the University
Union have won Military Crosses, two are
proud of the French War Cross, one has a
Montenegrin decoration, four are D.S.O’s.,
and three have the D.C.M. Now the old
shop is waiting for somebody among the
other 1074 who have been accepted for ser-
vice to bring home the little cross of cannon-
metal that is treasured above all.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Cheery Willie Ford, the old J.C.W. ward-
robe master, goes out of the theatre on pension
after 35 years amongst the things that make
the actor look different. He played the
cringing solicitor in “Patience,” and then
had the part taken away from him because
he made the audience laugh. Ford says the
Italian co.’s versions of "Lohengrin” and
■“Vida” were his heaviest jobs; but the reeeitf
“Under Fire” was another severe test. Lm
played cricket in the Williamson and Mus-
grove days, and reckons he could have been
in an inter-State eleven with the sanction of
J.C.W., only that partner Musgrove objected
to any sporting interruptions to business.
“J.C.” was a spick-and-span cricket amateur
of no great ability, and once took Harold
Ashton (then his secretary) down to practise
at the nets. Ashton incautiously bowled his
proud old chief first ball, and was promptly
asked from the crease if he had finished the
letters before he left. “No, sir,” he replied.
“Well, you will be good enough to return to
the office immediately /” Ashton retired hurt,
and the boss called up a ground bowler and
toned himself by pasting the menial all over
the place. Ford says bravely that he could
face the long touring road again “if some-
body else would shift the baskets.” And
there you have the pathos of growing old.
We all used to throw those baskets about
years ago! Now we can only sit on them
and talk about old times.
“UNDER FIRE,”
AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Julius Knight, of
the Irish Guards,
has a brain wave.
“Ancient Prompter”: They all come to it.
Our old—or, let us say, fairly old —friend
Ellen Terry has been “persuaded” to play to
the camera. The resulting picture is a wild
and whirling drama of theatrical life called
“Her Greatest Performance,” in which Ellen,
pretending to be an actress named Julia
Lovelace, first gives imitations of herself as
Portia, Mistress Page and Hermione, and
anon impersonates her ancient “dresser.” in
which guise she frustrates and unmasks the
villain. It isn’t Shakspeare, but it will pay
better.
“8.M.” : Old-time theatre goers will grieve
to hear that Fanny Wiseman—the well-
beloved Topsy of many years ago, and now
Mrs. W. South —has lost her youngest son,
Private Sydney A. South, now listed as
killed in action at Lone Pine on August 7,
1015. Her eldest son, Charles E. South,
was invalided home last July. The little
lady was- 70 last month.
“Lookout Man”: My unknown ’ friend
“C.M.” (B. 19/10/T6) calls me down from
the masthead on the ground that the J.C.W.
people’s forthcoming mission, “Damaged
Goods,” discusses the question of health, not
morals. Very well. If it’s a health tract
pure and simple, I take back my original
suggestion that the unpleasant Bi-ieux play
be kept out of the pretty little Criterion and
given in some church borrowed for the occa-
sion. Let it be administered in the base-
ment of the Town Hall,- where the people
were vaccinated during the smallpox scare.
Veteran actor Walter Bentley, who is
doing his histrionic best for “Yes” in Syd-
ney, made a slight slip during a patriotic
speech at Rockdale the other night. “When
I landed in America, just after the War of
Independence,” began Walter reminiscently.
And then some mumbling interrupter wanted
to know what George Washington really
thought of his acting,
“Minim”: I agree with “Glen II.” (B.
Pl/10/’l6) that the booming of the “pro-
ducer” in these musical comedies is carried
to a ridiculous extreme. Buy a copy of one
of the numbers. You'll not find the name of
either author or composer on the sheet, but
the producer will be announced in bold type.
Sometimes the great man's portrait will be
given also. But isn’t “Glen H.” out in sug-
gesting that “Jean Gilbert” is one of the
“artificers” in the fixing up of “The Cinema
Star”? I think he will find that “Jean Gil-
bert” is the assumed name of the Austrian
writer of the original score. When Court-
neidge produced the operetta at the London
•Shaftesbury in June, 1914, it was announced
by him as “from the German of George Okon-
kowski and Julius Freund ; the English ver-
sion by Jack Hulbert; the music by Jean
Gilbert.” A month after the war'started
the piece was withdrawn.
“J.F.11.” (London) : Flapperdom is in-
consolable. Britain’s handsomest actor,
Henry Ainley, has been called to the colors,
and is now a cadet in the Royal Artillery.
Henry is a first-rate reciter, and Australians
in London have been delighted with his selec-
tions from Adam Lindsay Gordon. He was
rehearsing at the Ilaymarket when his coun-
try called him. One London weekly gusli-
fully exclaims: —
A beautiful youth with black hair and flashing
eyes and a voice which thrilled with its organ-like
tones, he stood forth like a young Greek god.
If the Huns hurt Henry there will be a
deuce of a row in London.
“G.II.”: Dancer Maud Allan and Leo
Cherniavsky—he was the violinist of the
party, you • remember —are engaged for a
duet in N’Yark about Christmas. Maud has
fallen rather flat since her return to Eng-
land and has come to the conclusion that
there is room-in her life for ' something be-
sides that Art of which she and her press-
agent were so fond of burbling. So she
will undertake to look after Leo’s buttons.
: Jennie Lee’s only son, Sergeant
J. N. Burnett, who has been killed in
France, was in Australia with liis parents
and his sister, Joan, who died a few years
back. Some of those who knew Jennie will
remember the boy as a sturdy little chap in
the costume of the clan McSomething-or-
other.
“Iris”: Probably the only picture-theatre
orchestra conductor in Melbourne who has
attracted the notice of anybody beyond the
front row is David Norton. David is an
earnest person, with some idea of being a
real composer later on, when he gets time
to sit down and consult his soul about the
matter. Meantime he dashes off a popular
little thing now and again and sells it for
£2 10s. to a music-publisher, while six nights
a week he continues to reach urgently down
into his orchestra, scooping up armfuls of
noise and scattering them around the audi-
torium. It is the sight of a lifetime to
watch him tossing his thatch up to the ceil-
ing in an attempt to get brass-band effects
from a few strings and woodwinds, keeping
the grand piano in action with one hand
while with the other he furiously scores the
air hi the manner of the late Marshall Hall.
It isn’t every picture-show which permits
its music to be taken so seriously, of course.
Some of them just, have a girl in to. play
the piano with her feet.
“Te Pana” : Of South Sea Island dances
the Fijian mekemeke is the most spectacular.
There are melees on war, hurricanes, rains,
devils, travel by canoe, gods, calms, crops,
men and women. The natives squat cross-
legged on mats, swaying and swinging heads
and hands in perfect harmony. They beat
time with wooden sticks, strike their breasts
and move to the sound of their voices, mostly
grunting some fable of love and the other
chap’s missus. The contortions, gestures
and crouching postures are all in unison.
Muscles twitch in a frenzy, eyes gleam,
white teeth grin and arms and legs jiggle
as if manipulated by a common string. The
grunts and deep breathings are appalling,
and the performers shout and sweat until
exhausted. A much tamer affair is the
Samoan siva siva. Women are the star
actors, and the taupo, or village virgin,
starts the business, which is chiefly the
rippling of the upper part of the body while
feet and legs mark a slow time. The old
“roof tree” by the thupo, that used to com-
plete the exhibition, was an illustrated edi-
tion of the “Poems of Passion,” but is now
so expurgated that it is little more than a
hand-book on the poetry of motion. The
Tongan runs a laka laka modelled on the
Samoan feature, while the Raratongan
favors a type of Maori liaka. The Tahitians’
■upa upa is the most unsavory saraband of
the bunch.
“J.F.11.”: Minnie Everett, who at latest
was superintending and rehearsing the pro-
duction of “High Jinks” at the Adelphi here
in London, has been expressing surprise that
so few of the sex are engaged in that line
of business in the big metropolis. Female
Producers, she says, are quite common in
Australia, and J.C.W. has utilised her ser-
vices in that capacity for goodness knows,
how long. She has been struck by another
difference between theatrical conditions in
London and Australia. “Great and noble
ladies” in London mingle freely with
actresses, but the pure merinoesses of the
Commonwealth consider it infra dir/. “In
Australia the gilded youth fraternise with
stage celebrities, but the wives of politicians
and other aristocratic females only look at us
through lorgnettes.” But. alas! Miss Everett
has something yet to learn. Duchesses and
countesses do collogue with famous
actresses—and then use them as bait for
charitable afternoon performances. The
smiles of the philanthropic peeresses con-
stitute their only payment.
“Melb” : We have . witnessed three at-
tempts in late years to acclimatise Yiddish
pdays in Melbourne. A year or two ago Mr.
Weisberg, a New York manager and
comedian, started at the Temperance Hall,
lie was followed by Mr., Mrs. and Miss
Finkelstein, who were also professionals
from New York. But there are not enough
Noses here, and these worthy players have
had to take up other jobs. Now Mr. and
Mrs. Strunin are entertaining us with the
Yiddish opera of “Shubamith” ; and I don’t
think there has ever been quite so much
enthusiasm before.
Among 80 aliens who were granted certifi-
cates of naturalisation in England the other
month was the well-known playwright
Edward Knoblauch, author of Oscar Asche’s
“Kismet” and part-author of “Milestones.”
To make the change of nationality look com-
plete, Knoblauch, who was born in N’Yark in
1874, now spells his surname “Knoblock.”
William James, an Australian pianist, is
getting himself billed prominently in Lon-
don. -He played a concerto at Queen’s Hall
with Sir Henry Wood’s orchestra so well
that he won an encore and a re-engagement.
He was also solo pianist at the Palladium
and has been playing at the At Homes, of
the Duchess of Marlborough. Plenty (if
teaching and the royalties on the sales of
an Australian song keep the pot boiling
nicely.
“J.”: Oh, do you remember sweet Alice
.Crawford —sweet Alice, the Australian
brunette who recited and then went on the
boards in England? She was married some
weeks ago in London to Valentine
Williams. He was the Daily Mail war
correspondent at £2OOO a year, but, unable
to resist taking a hand himself, he dropped
the journalistic job and is now a lieutenant
in the trenches.
“C. Ockney” : “High Jinks,” the musical
piece recently staged by the Williamson firm,
has been put on at the London Adelphi. As
in Australia no authors’ names appeared on
the bill. This naturally caused comment —so
much comment indeed that the Adelphi
deemed it advisable to confess that it had
kept the names from the public because,
although not German, they “looked remark-
ably like it.” They - undoubtedly do. The
author of the words is Otto Hauerbach ; the
musical composer is Rudolph Friml. The
former is, so the management avers, a Dutch-
American; the latter a Bohemian, natural-
ised in U.S.A. So now we know. But why
not have said so at first ?
“Stargazer”: We have had half a score
of Yankee dramas within about three years,
each specialising more or less in Uncle Sam’s
slang. So far as opportunities have offered.
I have studied this grt of the Yank as
reproduced by his dramatists, and I find no
two professors alike. The slang in one. play
is not the slang in another play. One
writer’s slang is not another’s. The slang
of George Ade, for instance, is not the slang
of Mr. O. Henry. I am driven at length to
the conclusion that each American makes
his own. There are a few items in com-
mon use, of course, but for the most part
the American slang of the American drama
is more original than anything else in the
play, being produced by the author exclus-
ively for the purposes of his play. What I
am looking for is the tab: “The American
language used in this comedy has been
specially copyrighted. All rights reserved.”
{Continued' on page 26.)
The appointment of a successor to Bprn-
hard Wise as Agent-General for N. S.
Wales is still under consideration, and a
party leader, whose name isn’t Willie, is now
being urged to recognise that the job would
be admirably suited to the state of' his
health.
L. O. Wilkinson, of Hampton (N.S.W.),
remembers the days of his youth
At our school two chaps who had never been
suspected of having a punch about them decided to
“have it out.” Each drew a line with his toe,
the lines being- about 10ft. apart, and each dared
the other to come over it, while each in turn
replied (hat lie wasn't going to walk a mile to
light anybody. “That’s my line,” each warrior
declared. “You come over it and see what you
will get!” Despite enthusiastic encouragement from
interested and hopeful spectators, matters remained
in statu quo till the headmaster came round the
corner, upon ' which both warriors left hurriedly for
dugouts. Later on each put in a lot of time explain-
ing what he would have done if the other had been
game to come on. I never saw that beautiful farce
played again till now, when'l find that many citizens
are fierce supporters of conscription in regard to
defending Australia at home, but are .as fiercely
opposed to it when it conies to going out to meet
the enemy. A good many of these high-souled
patriots who are anxious to shed their last drop
of gore defending Australia against the invader
when they think he isn’t coming, would, I’m afraid,
be taking the shortest cut to Bourke if one actually
happened along.


LADIES! YOUR FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE
is to retain your Beauty.
oli n
s
(range
w
inter's
Powders, Face Creams, Lotion, Soap, Dental Cream, Hair Foods, &c., &c.
Obtainable from all Drapers, Civil Service, W. H. Soul & Co., &«., &c.
AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS—LONDON, PARIS AND ROME.
\ttDMAf
&
f’AtACt
MNIA
See Demonstration now at W. T. Waters & Co., King Street.
Send 2d stamp for Sample of Soap or Powder to JOHN STRANGE WINTER (London,
Paris and Koine). Sydney Offices, 32 Depot, 2(1 Jamieson Streeet, Sydney
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS
WINES
I had no idea that my friend Blithers
bated war so. I have known him for years
ind years, and never heard him mention the
subject. But since there was a prospect of
conscription he has become suffused with a
horror of militarism. So long as Blithers
didn’t think he wa.s liable to do any fightirg,
war didn’t matter. It wasn’t his affair. But
as soon as Blithers found somebody pushing
a gun into his hand, it became a horribly
personal thing. I make the Peace Society
and the anti-militarists a present of my
friend Blithers. If they vote down conscrip-
tion on Saturday Blithers will be again quite
indifferent about war. If they vote for con-
scription, then Blithers is going to be another
enemy of war and another advocate of inter-
national arbitration. So long as voluntary-
ism prevails, so long as war isn’t a personal
matter, just so long will people not trouble
much whether war comes or not. The world
is full of Blitherses, and the only way to
make them compel their Governments to be
peaceful is to make them personally liable to
do the fighting. That’s why conscription
doesn’t mean militarism. It means the very
opposite.
[L. O. Wilkinson, Hampton, N.S.W.]
It was bound to come. Billjim went off
full of enthusiasm and other intoxicants, and
left behind him an allotment order authoris-
ing the girl to collect bis money for him.
HE HAD SAID IT.
THE PARTRIOTIC SPINSTER: “ Young man, have you heard your country’s call? And have
you said, ‘I will’?”
THE YOUNG MAN: "Urn, I did.”
Returning—well, either he wasn’t the same
Billjim or she didn’t seem the same girl. So
he wanted the money, and when the girl re-
fused there was this first court-case, which an
Adelaide S.M. heard. Bill did not succeed: a
gift is a gift, and cannot be claimed back
again. But there are going to be many other
cases. Two years of absence, and bard fight-
ing, and wide experience of other lands and
other ladies, will find a lot of Billjims un-
willing, and often legally unable, to marry the
girl they left behind them. Probably the money
in these cases was meant to be collected and
banked for the future joint home ; but how
can poor old Bill prove it? The Law says
coldly that when a man leaves an order in
favor of his mother, nobody doubts that she
is meant to spend the money on herself; and
it may have been the same in the other case.
With the increasing casualty-lists there comes
the same question in a dead man’s estate.
His father, as next of kin, can claim every-
thing that was his. but cannot claim that
which he himself could not have recovered.
Say there is a. will, leaving everything to all
the sisters of deceased; and say the chief
item in sight is the pay, which has been col-
lected by one of them. Is it hers? Or theirs?
The “deferred pay” they get. beyond a doubt,
but as for the bigger sum—and 3s. or 4s. a
day soon mounts up—possession has its
value, just as in the old proverb. One has to
be a lawyer to realise, not the legal position,
but the shattering force of a dead man's few
pounds.
The police raided the I.W.W. quarters in
Sydney last week and seized the society’s
printing plant; and there seemed nothing
else to do. Muzzling people is poor business,
as a rule ; for every reform has started with
a handful of men, and the handful, as a rule,
has had bricks heaved at it. But these
people are different. Frankly, they are out
first to destroy before they start to build ;
and a State which has been at a lot of pains
to build is entitled to say a word when any-
body proposes to use a firestick. And
an Australian Government is all the more
called upon to put in the plug and stop the
flow of I.W.W. poison because the thing
appeals here to nobody but defectives.
The I.W.W. consists in Australia of only
three classes: (1) foreigners, who rule it:
(2) mental weaklings, who have the idiot’s
itch for destruction; (3) perverts and con-
stitutional criminals. Nobody who read the
evidence of the Tottenham murder-horror
could believe that the two men who have
been found guilty and sentenced are sane.
They were mental defectives who got under
the influence of this foreign poison; and if
there were no other crime but the murder of
this country constable against the 1.W.W..
the suppression of its campaign would be
called for, as much in the interests of the
mental defectives themselves as for the bene-
fit of the rest of us.
THE NEW EUGENICS.
M ILDRED: "And you are not going to marry Jack, after all?”
MI LICENT : “No, indeed. The doctors passed him out as unfit for war.”
“Lo Gan” : The other day the Tuwhare-
toas handed over to Native Minister Merries
a 25,000-acre block for settlement by re-
turned Maori soldiers irrespective of tribe.
The Minister got off the platitude that he
was pleased to see that the Maoris recognised
their responsibilities to those of their own
race who had gone to the Front, but he
didn’t hint that the paleface land cormorant
might learn a lesson from the occasion. All
that an obsequious Coalition Government
dares to do is to timidly inquire if Fat will
sell portion of his areas at market rates to
enable Billjim when he returns to have a
little holding on which to earn a crust. •
* * * *
“Gustavus Gravelpit”: The professional
prowler is the latest thing out at night. At
the Bhptist Union meeting in Melbourne a
rev. gentleman named Howard was anxious
to know what action had been taken in con-
nection with “certain scenes of grave immo-
rality very near to the heart of Melbourne,
namely, the Fitzroy Gardens.” Whereupon
a Mr. 11. Press (Hot Press possibly) replied
that the Public Questions Committee was
taking the matter into consideration, and he
would be glad to receive the names of nine
or 10 brethren who would be prepared to do
patrol work in order to secure information.
If matters are half as bad as we can be sure
the brethren will be prepared to swear they
are, one thing at any rate will be proved—-
these churches have made, a howling failure
of their job.
“F.C.”: These sweetly-logical anti-enn-
scriptionists ought to have been down at
Altona Bay (Vic.) camp when the first
drafts of compulsory service men came in.
The antis say they are quite willing to
defend Australia when she is invaded ; they
will eagerly shoulder their rifles then, and so
on. Well, suppose Germany did invade Aus-
tralia. There were about 600 of these un-
trained ones from Port Melbourne, Wil-
li amstown and ’Scray, and they knew
nothing. “Right turn, march !” said the ser-
geant. A few right-turned: others stepped
to the left, some straight ahead, others
started back the way they came. The trained
men running the camp had their fill of joy.
“Better take these blankets; it'll be cold
to-night. Where’s yer bed? Bed —oh. he
wants a bed ! What’s that? Want a pillow,
do y’? Bill, run down a couple of. chooks’
and pluck' him a pillow,” and so on. But
the old ’uns say the new ’uns are as good -a
sample as the best, and in a week’s tune
they were beginning to get into shape; in
three or four months they’ll be fit to stand
alongside the Anzacs. But the Lord have
mercy on those who depend on untrained
men when the enemy does come! And lie
won’t give six months’ notice.
THE OLD DOG’S DAY.
Tlio suggestion made in Sydney IS months
ago, that frozen horseflesh might be ex-
ported from Australia, has been repeated in
Adelaide,- and the- Minister of Industry has
heard a deputation on the subject. John
Lewis, M.L.C. and one of the best-known
stockmen in the State, said that a live horse
might cost £3 to get to the city and then
fetch less than that in the sale-ring; yet the
worst weeds often carry good “condition”
and would have a value as “fat stock.”
France wants the article: why not, he
urged, supply it? Minister Blundell pro-
mised to send on the request, though for
his own part he considered it a “bad adver-
tisement” for the Commonwealth. But why?
Australia does not eat beche-de-mer, yet it
does not feel any false delicacy about supply-
ing the worms to countries that do.
TO ROUMANIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rifles of the Rear Guard,
Rattling through the rain,
Falling back and falling back
To make a stand again—
Rifles of the Rear Guard,
Shall you die in vain ?
Rifles of the Rear Guard,
In the cold and wet;
Rifles of the Rear Guard,
We’re coming—do not fret!
The rifles of the Rear Guard
Shall be the Vanguard yet!
x.s.v.
HENRY LAWSON.


6/6 each
—these fine
OXFORD SHIRTS,
to measure.
IT need cost you no more to have your shirts
made to your 'measure at Pike Brothers’.
This fine Oxford is a splendid material,
offered in neat striped designs. The wear is
guaranteed, and it has a nice appearance, too.
Despite the times, the price is still the same—
-6/6 each; 37/6 for six.
SEND FOR FREE PATTERNS TO-'DAY.
fdh
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
TOOWOOMBA. BRISBANE. TOWNSVILLE.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Table d’hote luncheon 2/6
a la carte luncheon, from 1/6
Table d’hote dinner 3/6
Dining-room Open to Non-residents.
THEATRE DINNER, 6 to 7.30 p.m., 3/6. Orchestral Items During Dinner.
' CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
William Turner, secretary of the Austin
Hospital for Incurables at Heidelberg
O ic.), has published a heavyweight argu-
ment in favor of compulsion in hospital
matters. The Austin Hospital has barely
enough money to carry on with, every avail-
able bed in the place being occupied (230 of
them), while no less than 62 hopeless
invalids are waiting for admission. Half
of these are suffering from inoperable can-
cer -“they, above all others, owing to the
agonising and offensive nature of their
malady, requiring institutional treatment.”
Many of these, Turner declares, are living
unattended in poverty and neglect. What the
hospital needs, and can’t get from man or
Government, is the cash wherewith to fit up
an empty wing with beds and accessories and
the income to keep it going. The street
cadge, of which the State had another taste
the other day. provides only a trifle of relief
in an inequitable manner. For a start, the
Government should do the straight thing and
apply the entire proceeds of its new betting
tax to "charity,” following the precedent set
by less sanctified communities in handling
the tote dividend.
Proclamation posted at the city of Reims,
in France, on September 12, 1914: — .
In order to adequately assure the safety of the
troops and to guarantee a calm attitude on the part
ot the population of Reims, the persons named below
ISO persons, including five of the clergy] have been
«?, n as hostages by the German High Command.
J hese hostages will be hanged if the least attempt is
made to create a disturbance, and if any infraction of
what has been laid down above is committed the
TOW X WILL BE WHOLLY OR PARTIALLY BURNED AND THE
INHABITANTS HANGED.
This is the sort of agony that the anti-
HIS LITTLE JOB.
OFFICER (to guard): “Hum, my man, bui
Jove. If any beastly Germans come
a wound -— ah! just a west the bally lot,
don’tcherknow.”
conscriptionists want Australia to suffer.
Conscription for Home Defence, they say, is
right and proper; but we must not send our
men out of Australia to fight—we must let
the enemy enter our country, where he will
post proclamations like the foregoing. If
Australia wants to read that sort of pro-
clamation it will vote on the 28th to pre-
vent Australians being sent to meet the
enemy anywhere except on our own soil.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-stveet, Sydncv.]
From Sydney Stock.' and Station Jour-
nal :
Wanted, single man Working Overseer, 5000
Sheep (Plot.); must have good credentials; Salary
cl 00 per annum. Apply , .
It’s dirty clerical sweating, that’s what it
is. And it’s a good job they are Prodestans;
for no Catterlick priest would look at a flock
of 5000 for a hundred a year.
Even with the world writhing in tragedy
the solitary death of an Australian pearler
touches the strings of pity. One day last'
month Louis Krasker rode out from Denham
(W.A.) for Herald’s Bight. An hour from
his destination he fell from his horse and
broke his leg. Unable to catch the animal
Krasker started the terrible journey back to
a water tank 12 miles from Denham. He
never reached it. Six days later they found
his body under a wattle one mile from the
tank. Beside him lay a note and upon its
page was written his farewell to wife and
children. “I failed where you will find me,”
it ran ; “thirst killed me.”
The Teuton names with which the
Southern Alps are plastered are beginning
to get on the nerves of M.L., and there is talk
of boycotting ’the Franz Josef glacier and
the Unser Fritz waterfall and the Prince
Rudolf ice-stream and the Moltke peaks
until the offending titles are censored
out of the picture, It was von Haast
who was to blame for the over-plentiful
dose of Franzes and Fritzes on these
show-places. The half-dotty old Hapsburg
monarch was regarded as a benefactor in
the M.L. of the ’sixties because he showed
interest in tuatara lizards and fed biscuits
to stray kiwis torn from their bush solitudes
to fill a Vienna cage. The only thing to
fear now is that the Podsnaps of politics will
want to have their no-account names substi-
tuted for the strafed ones.
“Billy T.” : She arrived at my front door
with the air of a tax-gatherer or any other
chartered libertine. She had an elegant note-
book and a dinky little pencil, and she in-
formed me she was an accredited collector
for the Rest Room movement. She appeared
to regard this statement of the case as
wholly irresistible, and prepared to enter
something in the pounds column. I begged
enlightenment. What was the Rest Room.
movement, for in-
stance? “Dear me.
don’t you know? Our
aim is to provide suit-
able resorts for those
poor men who will be
at a loss to put in their
evenings when Victoria fol-
lows the lead of more ad-
vanced States and hotels
are closed at six.” Very
laudable indeed, and were
rooms available? “Oh, yes.
indeed. We have two
charming rooms, done
throughout in brown and
wedgwood blue.” Excel-
lent ! And what recrea-
t'on was to be offered the
outcast and homeless ex-
barbender? “Well, we have
draughts.” Good —v e r y
good! Delightful. What
else? “A gramophone.”
Fine! No knitting? “No,
no knitting. Do you really
think these men would care
for knitting?” I thought it
was a pity there was no
knitting, and said so.
“There will be games,” said
the matron brightly. She
did not know precisely
what games. I suggested
puss-in-the-corner, and she
thought well of it. “There
will be a library,” she
said, “loaned by the Vic-
torian Alliance. Good
books, most instructive. All
about drink, you know.” I
assured her that to the •
man who wants a drink and
can’t get it nothing is so
satisfactory as to read the
many reasons why he
shouldn’t have it. “We shall have addresses,
too,” said the good dame. “I myself shall
speak. My subject is ‘llow to Make Home Life
Happy.’” Enraptured. I gave her a shil-
ling, being convinced that only three other
things were essential to the enthusiastic
success of the Rest Rooms —a barrel of beer,
a keg of tobacco and one gross of cuspidors.
“Harry P.”: Our battalion of newchums
found it very hard at first to pick out the
English officers from the privates and other
humble ones of the earth. The General was
riding along the road one morning in his
khaki when he passed an Australian private.
Billjim neglected to salute, so the big chief
stopped him. “Do you know who I am?” he
snapped. “I am the divisional commander.
General Blazeaway!” “ ’Struth !” said Bill-
jim, “I thought you was a military police-
man !”
“Y.Z.”: You can look with a good deal
of confidence for a marked jump in one
branch of our vital statistics as a result of
6 o’clock closing of pubs. The professional
moral reformer naturally hasn’t dwelt on a
possible connection between the empty bar
and the full bassinet; nevertheless an in-
HER SYMPATHY.
“I was awfully sorry to hear of your being
wounded.”
“Oh, it was nothing-I hope to live through
a lot worse.”
" Indeed, I hope you'll do nothing of the
sort.”
crease in the “irregular” birth-rate is ex-
pected by men of the world, who recognise
that drastic reformative measures do not
reform man's morals, though they mat-
change his methods. Woman has long had
two dangerous rivals, alcohol and tobacco,
and woman’s hatred of smoke and swipes
is based, not on the sex’s comprehension of
the mischief these things do to man, hut
upon its apprehension of the fact that man’s
two conspicuous bad" habits cut him off from
the blandishments of Eve more than any
other features of ordinary life.* As you limit
man’s opportunities of running after whisky
you increase his disposition to run after
woman. Already here in Melbourne the
beaches and convenient open places are not
large enough to hold the spring lovers, and
trams and motors open wider fields. “My
dear fellow,” a busy seaside doctor assures
me, “in three years 6 o’clock closing will
have made up for all our losses in this war!”
A young -man, a widower, tried to get
exemption in Melbourne the other day be-
cause he was, he said, an only son-in-law.
SHELTERED.
M ICK: “Sure, ’tis a woild noiglit, Pat.”
PAT: “Yis. Thank Hivins, we’re not out in it!”
“Castor” :—.
"Vf* C harles \\ ilcox said the shareholders were
delighted with the balance-sheet. The directors
would be well aware of the troubles 'that presented
themselves, tor almost every month a new proposal
was brought forward by the guilds and unions, and
all sorts of outrageous demands were maele.
This noble speech at the meeting of the
Adelaide S.S. (jo. was concluded by Wilcox
proposing to increase the direc-
tors’ fees from £lOOO to £l5OO.
This was carried unanimously ;
so the directors get an extra
£5OO, while a gibe is all the
reward the members of the
Merchant Service Guild reap
for patiently waiting
from December, 1913,
to June, 1916, for the
Court to give them a
hearing. Any other
organisation in Aus-
tralia would have
downed tools until, at
any rate, it got the
Court’s assurance that
the award would be retro-
spective. Since the com-
mencement of the war ship-
owners in other parts of
the world have given their
officers handsome bonuses,
recognising that they were
overworked. There is the
same overwork in this coun-
try, but only the clerical
departments are considered
when the spoils are divided.
The approximate rise given
by the Court was £3 a month
all round —the lordly sum of
£3O per annum—whilst the
poor, overworked directors
voted themselves a modest
£5OO. What awful nights
the poor wretches must put
in at sea to earn all that
extra money I
“J.E.” : It was the morning after the
joyous night before, and he was indignantly
denying the charge of “drunk and incapable.”
Asked bv a sarcastic and exasperated beak
when did he consider a man was drunk,
accused reflectively handed out the straight-
griffen that “a man is drunk when he lies
down in the park and thinks every blade of
grass is a lamp post to help him home.”
SHE AND I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Above suspicion high as Caesar’s wife,
My maiden modesty a wide-flung moat
Guarding the spiring temple of my life —
l wonder ho v she came by that fur coat.
Girdled am I by friends whose loving care
Enfolds me as a scarf enwraps a throat;
I drink not, neither do I smoke nor swear—
-1 walk in virtue, plus a drab serge, coat.
I am as fair as she, my hair as bright.
Jt loved, I could cling close as any burr.
My conduct’s proper, on my fame no blight—•
N/ie snuggles deeply in her coat of fur.
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.
IN ITS SETTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the world is shrill with laughter;
Winds make merry in the trees;
Shouting white-topped waves run after
Other wavelets on the seas.
Hide-apd-segk of sunlit dimple,
Droop of eyelid, clasp of hand
Ways in Aready are simple
When the springtime holds the land.
Pert blue wren and sparrow’s flutt-c",
Roses riotous of bliss,
Careless words that red lips utter,
Careless lips that speak the kiss!
Sheep are white across the valley,
Kine about the lowlands trail;
Pinkest shepherdesses rally
To the bush-trvst blossom-pale.
Here, where nothing seems to matter,
Where the world its youth renews,
And the changing moments scatter
Magic rings and crystal shoes;
Here, wdiere tossing branches stencil
Purple shapes on springtime’s dress,
Young Australia grips her pencil,
Writes for truth and honor—YES !
N.S.V.
MARY McOOMMONWEALTH.


THE KAISER DID IT.
[Norman Lindsay, Springwood. N.S.W.]
SHALL WE DO IT. TOO?


GOING TO THE POST.
[DAVID LOW, BULLETIN Branch Office, Melbourne.]


(yTICK
L6Y6F
For an
Ideal Shave
a? A
r-
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
ĥ
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
\ .-Oaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Whoclrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's,
r.l
/
THE
3SJ
V:
u
&M 6
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts & Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Captain T. W. White, the first officer to
gain his certificate at Australia’s own Point
Cook Flying School, has been prisoner in
Turkey now for 11 months, and writes home
an average of one letter per week. Abdul
seems to treat his prisoners much better than
his “cultured” ally, as the prisoners have
plenty of books, run a debating society and
have a theatre. A revue written and com-
posed by Captain White —who is an old
Bulletin contributor—was being staged
when the last mail left, and was meeting
with much success. For box-plan and prices
of admission write to Captain White, Royal
Flying Corps, Prisoner of War at Afion
Kara Hissar, Turkey-in-Asia.
November birthdays: Simpson Newland,
ex-Treasurer of S.A., 81 on 2nd; Lancelot
Stirling (President S.A. Leg. Council), 67
on stli; Prof. Woodhouse (Sydney Uni.),
50, Prof. W. H. Williams (Tasmanian
Uni.), 64, and ex-Chief Justice Parker, of
Westralia, 70, on 7th; A. G. Ralston, K.C.,
Sydney, 56 on 10th ; Principal Andrew Har-
per (St. Andrew’s, Sydney Uni.), 72 on
13th ; William McMillan, Sydney, 68, Steele
Rudd, 48, and Rabbi Cohen, 54. on 14th;
novelist Ada Cambridge, 72 on 21st; Willie
Watt, ex-Vic. Premier, 45, and Archbish.
Lowther Clarke, 65, on 23; Mark Cohen
(Dunedin Evening Star). 67, Rod Quinn,
47, and Canon Andrews (S.A.) ,87 on 26th ;
Dr. Ramsay Smith (S.A,), 57 on 27th ; A. G.
Maitland (Government Geologist, West-
ralia), 52 on 30th.
THE HORRORS OF COMPULSION.
“Look 'ere, ’ Enery, ain't this a free country?
What right it they got ter force anyone
ter fight?"
“That’s right, 'Orace! Give ’em a inch, and
they'll he forcin' us to work next."
A Pittsburg (U.S.A.) crank tried to knife
peaceful President Wilson last week. Wil-
son escaped because the secret service men
in attendance weren’t too proud to fight.
“O. Blin” : Cyrus Cuneo, who died lately
as the result of a shocking misadventure in
Fred Leist’s studio in London, ought to be
remembered in Australia for his brilliant
picture of the landing of the Anzacs in Gal-
lipoli. The many other artists who tackled
the subject failed to convey the impression
of combative muscularity which makes
Cuneo’s achievement memorable. There is
no mistaking the eagerness and fitness of
the big brown warriors who are clambering
up his cliffs. The virility of the thing is
stunning. Cuneo was a Yankee by birth,
and before he took to the palette in Paris
inflicted much damage as an amateur pug.
The tale of another resourceful Billjim in
the making, Frank Frinsdorf, of Kangaroo
Island (S.A.). He had a day out alone in a
dinghy, and capsized as he was hauling up
the anchor. Then this boy of 16 did these
things: (1) Shed all his clothing in the
water; (2) swam ashore, about threequarters
of a mile, wfith a heavy sea on; (3) after
waiting about for a passing boat which did
not pass, walked to the point opposite his
home ; (4) swam the channel, 500 yards wide,
in the dark ; (5) walked home, arriving at
midnight in “what he stood up in,” which was
nothing. The sharks of S. Australian waters
have long been suspected of being amiable
and philanthropic, and this goes far to prove
it, for they apparently took no interest at all
in this lonely swimmer in deep waters.
G. P. Doolette, the Adelaide tailor who
went to London, 20 years back, to float
Westralian mines, and there blossomed out
into a financial magnate, with knighthood to
follow, has sent to Adelaide for burial the
body of his lately-deceased wife, although
she was not an Australian, but daughter of
Dale, the famous preacher of Birmingham.
Evidently Doolette means to be buried in
Adelaide himself when his time comes.
Meanwhile he continues to live in England
and spend his good Australian money there.
Australia must be content to have him,
apparently, when his spending time is past.
Dead at 69, Bernard H. Woodward, for-
merly director of the Westralian Museum
and Art Gallery, and a one-time prominent
figure in the public life of the State.
Deceased was a son of the late Di\ Wood-
ward, of the British Museum, and his parent-
age got him the custody of the local geologi-
cal museum within a week of his arrival.
Later on he became Government analyst, and
pottered about in the service till two years
ago, when he retired to his orangery at
Harvey.
It is stated that a famous English Uni-
versity intends to make Premier Massey, of
Maoriland, an LL.D. After that, if
the calves up at Hokipokiwai forget to give
three cheers when farmer Bill arrives to
inspect the next show, the Empire is doomed.
Of course, .Joe Ward has been an f.s.d., or
something, for a long time, but the calves
heard of that without emotion.
W. A. Horn, whose name was on the
original prospectus of the Broken Hill Prop.,
31 years ago, and who afterwards scintil-
lated for a time in the S. Aus. Assembly,
still makes an occasional speech in London.
His last appearance was at the annual meet-
ing of the British New Guinea Development
Co., the pretentious concern which has done
about one-fortieth of what the projectors pro-
mised. The old man’s talk, as chairman,
was all about “the pearl of the Pacific” and
the wickedness of the Commonwealth which
will not allow his co. to indenture Papuan
ladies for field work. _ Fond as ever of scat-
tering phrases (in the brief days when he
was in Parliament a pressman who had in-
vented a good one always knew where to look
for a buyer), Horn drew a picture - of
“favored dusky damsels sitting idly under the
grateful shade of coc-oanut palms and the
care of a paternal Government” when they
might ever so much better be earning divi-
dends for Willie Horn.
When draper John Aikman recently lost
his seat in the Vic. Leg. Council to Dan
McNamara, assistant secretary of the P.L.C.,
King George’s advisers set about repairing
the breach in John’s self-esteem by prevail-
ing on the Throne to allow him to be known
as the Hon. John forever. It is a privilege
which only the King can grant if the object
of the Royal favor hasn’t served in a
Cabinet. In the meantime, however,
McNamara had been pushed out because he
didn’t possess the full property qualification
necessary to retain his seat, with the auto-
matic result that the ex-councillor became
honorable once more. Presently the per-
mission from Above arrived in due course;
and now Aikman is honorable on two counts
and the most cheerful draper in Melbourne.
Last week while Norman Lindsay was
sitting on his N.S.W. Blue Mountain sketch-
ing a bear, a lamentable namesake was stand-
ing up in Melbourne City Court and pleading
not guilty to a charge of obtaining money
with valueless cheques. Our system of
nomenclature has many faults. What’s the
use of spending a lifetime making a name
if you can’t patent it like a new food and
protect it from indignities?
A Military Cross has gone to Captain I’.
S. Long Innes, of the Ist Battalion Irish
Guards, who was severely wounded on the
Somme in September. The captain is the
youngest surviving son of the late Justice
Innes, of the N.S.W. Supreme Court. He i®
the only member of the family who did not
adopt the law as a profession. _ His grand-
father was Captain Innes, one-time adjutant
of the 39th Regiment and Police Superin-
tendent in Sydney, who married a daughter
of Mrs. Reibey,.the lady whose name figures
so prominently in early Sydney history.
A TRAINED MAN.
BETTY: “George. says he will find it awfully
hard to kill a man.”
B ERTIE: “Oh, I shouldn’t think so. As a
lady-killer he teas hard to beat.”
What profit is there in being a distin-
guished criminal? Andrew John Gibson,
who was arrested in the old familiar way in
Sydney some months ago, has just been pre-
sented with a life sentence in Johannesburg
as the reward of a life devoted to forgery
and bigamy on the grand scale. Credited
with being a high-grade crime specialist, Gib-
son has been constantly in and out of gaol—
which is the criminal’s equivalent for busi-
ness insolvency. His proudest boast vvas
“Give me a clean shave and a clean shirt
and I can win the affection of any woman in
the world.” He certainly won a lot during
his busy career; but. any conqueror who is
unable to raise a shave and a shirt without
assistance can’t be regarded as much of a
success. There is more profit on the straight
path—in war contracts, for instance.
Died fit Bellerivc, near Hobart, Kynaston
Lathop Murray, son of that Lathop Murray
who cut a big figure in early Tasmanian his-
tory. The younger Murray was for many
years connected with the Vic-
torian Railways, which he
joined in the early ’6o’.s, after
having been a telegraph opera-
tor at Ararat. He installed the
first electric-light plant at Spen-
cer-street and superintended an
installation for the Melbourne
Exhibition of ’88 —the biggest
thing in the way of electric
lighting that had then been-*
attempted in Australia. As a 5
railway man he introduced the
Winter block instrument and
many other of the safety appli-
ances now in use, was appointed
one of the Commissioners in ’93, and retired
from the service in ’94. ,He was ,80 at the
time of his death, and l might have, scored
more but for a motor accident, four years
ago.
The D.S.O. has just been pinned on Capt.
Hubert Brettingham-Moore. a 25-year-old
Tasmanian whose achievements at the Somme
were mentioned by correspondent Bean.
Brettingham-Moore led a small party in an
attack on a German trench and somehow or
other got separated from his friends. But
that didn’t discourage him. Rapidly forming
himself into a limited company of one he
jumped into a trench thickly populated with
Huns and dropped right on one man’s shoul-
ders. The Anzac’s .45 revolver went off and
the co. paid its first dividend. Business
started to boom at once, and 10 more oppo-
nents were laid out before Brettingham-Moore
Ltd. ceased giving an imitation of a whole
battalion. The firm is now in hospital in
England.
Died lately, aged 83, John Stewart, who
landed as a youngster in July, 40, and
farmed at Baulkham Ilills when chain gangs
were making road; from Parramatta west-
ward. Later, he was in the Prisons Depart- ’
ment, and saw the end of several bush-
rangers, including the Clarks, who, incident-
ally, made their confession to him; and he
was at Berrima when the prisoners had
their more or less historical disagreement
with the governor. Leaving the prison ser-
vice, he grew oranges for a while on the
Kurrajong, and then retired to end the
long day of a good Australian at Enmore
(Sydney).
Killed in France, Lance-Corporal Allen
H. McMinn, an adventurer who went to
Rhodesia some eight years ago and became
a noted lion-hunter. Then he crossed to
France to hunt hogs as one of the Rhodesian
Platoon of the King’s Royal Rifles. But
Australia bred him.
Father Conolly, Tasmania’s first R.C.
priest, whose remains were recently removed
to St. Mary’s Cathedral, was a contempo-
rary of Bobbv Knopwood-, the first Anglican
chaplain, and the two jolly old boys were
great pals. T. D. Gregson was another in-
timate. There’s a story that the then
R.C. bishop of Sydney, on a visit to
Hobart Town, drove round to see Conolly,
and was flabbergasted by the gales of laugh-
ter that burst from the windows of his
priest’s house. “I think,” he said dubi-
ously to his driver, “you must have brought
me tp the wrong place.” But the driver
hadn’t. Conolly had merely invited his
friend Gregson into a little dinner. The
cheery pair were with Knopwood when he
died. As a matter of fact, this unusual
parson went out to the clink of friendly
glasses from the next room, and no doubt
preferred it so.
. From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
The father of the legal, profession in Australia is
Mathew Henry Stephen. He was born in Hobart
Town in December, 1828, and is therefore in his 88th
year. ' The son of a Judge he is also the grandson of
a Judge, and has been a Judge himself. He was
called;, to the Bar in N. S. .Wales in 1850 —the first
barrister under Australian law,:, and not a University •
man at that. His. grandfather . was Solicitor-General
at Sty Christopher, and came to Sydney in 1824 with
the appointment of Solicitor-General, being the first to
hold that- office; he became a Judge in the same year.
His .son Alfred went to Van Diemen’s Land in 1825 as
Crown Solicitor and Solicitor-General, and in 1832
became Attorney-General; 1839 saw him a Judge in
N. S. Angles, and 1844 saw, him Chief Justice. lie
reached- the age of 92. The day he died his son was
sitting on the Supreme Court Bench at Broken Hill.
Having a. prisoner, in the dock, he declined to rise
until .the accused told his Honor not to bother about
him—he didn’t mind waiting.
Lieut. Jimmy Hurst, an ex-member of the
Speck’s Parliament, is now in hospital in
England with his right hand torn by shell-
fragments. When the shell burst he was
wearing on liis left wrist the watch given
him by his fellow-members. A bit of shell
struck that, too, smashed it and glanoed off.
EXPERT TREATMENT.
SHE: “So you’ve enlisted for the Army Med.?
Well, what would you do if you saw a
man blown up by a bomb?”
HE: “I should wait till he came down.”
THE BRIGADIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It ain’t the holScer commands the men of our
brigade,
It ain’t the hadjutant (’e ’ands us horders on
parade),
it ain’t the sergeant-major, and it ain’t the cor-
poral,
An’ I swear it ain’t the capting, wot terrifies us all.
The bloke wot rules it over us as with a’ iron rod,
The bloke wot seems to be to us a sort of demi-god,
Ts not the colonel, no nor ’im wot ’olds the dooty-
book ;
The bloke wot’s. got our souls in pawn an’ broke’
’em, is—the Cook.
FRANCE.
H. RUSSELL BRUFORD.
“KILLED IN ACTION."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Weep not for me,
It is as I would have it —•
Blue skies above, kind dust beneath,
And you to think of me.
Sigh not for me.
I rest: I’ve done my duty ;
And comrades brave above my head
Press on to victor}'.
Grieve not for me,
For I have been your lover ;
Kiss me sometimes within your dreams
And fret you not for me.
LONDON.
S. S. SEVERN.


'M
Am
wmm
wlf'P
» *
##lr4
M|l|||llfllf»[[fl»lll
%M
r
wM#
#1
#4
r
"if#
! I
s SM#
**
-■trjSrXpZrit
44
'X-~:-r*:y'?>y'y r 'X*yX -
'4&'}Vl'4^ASr.
4w4-
-'•:" '
■/fXXrJrX,
*Sfim
Am
'mmAA
f&-
mm
■mmM.
Am
'mA'Vmm'-
-*■*&*■
Am,
AA
cjk&S':*
##*
#M#44
lIIIIISB®II
AAm-
AAAA-
AA-tA
AAm-
iiMiiiiiisiiii
AAAAAAA
AvrA
«*••*•
AiAAmm
AAAAAmm
AAAA
-m
A*
'AAAAAA
till#
-
‘AAAAA
AtAA*titwHy
AmAA
■m
Am#
**■
■AAAaAA
-mmmt
AAAAAAA
■Am-
fw
AaAA
'AAAAA4AAA
’4-A-&
' r^-y-vvy4'-7->'./
r 4
Amm*
44
44
'^444445'
AAA
w#
mmmtt
m 4
m
m
m
M
m-
'Amm
**.
AmAA
V 'A
m
AAA
*****
mm
mm
mm
r *m
m
mm
■mm
m
m.
m
mm*
■mm
m
mm
mmm
mm
m
m
m
<ww
w
•4M
«i
sinp
w
mmmm
mm
ttr'l±ifl-
WHNk
s- sMwitf
■ w yry x VTyj
IfMmill
Ajf.A.A'i.-S
.4444444444444 44
imilill
>44v
■444
444
>44441
44-4
44'!
; ;a^&W9>WY
Mi
444
4444'5444
444
§-' -w
44444
■■s•44
f’Mw'
■' m
144444'
444
4' s'4» ;
4444
§4
•444
44c
'4444
-444
144
»>4
444$
444
IS
4444
kf&
(4444
44
4444
4444
44
4444
•4444
444
4444
44
54444
i|tM
4444
«4:M4f
4444
■
JN any company of Well-dressed Men will be found those who are more
noticeable on this account than others —Men who are singled out at a
glance because of the conspicuous good style which' is characteristic of
th eir dressing 1 .
chaiacter in a man’s clothes does not lend itself to ready definition although quite tangible
and definite, expiessing as it does a high standard of the Tailor’s Craft and the Cutter’s Art and Skilly
And just such a character as this it is that typifies an “AUSTRAL”
SAC SUIT TO ORDER by whoever worn and in whatever company.
Our Customers in Town are cordially invited to call
in and inspect the New Seasons Suitings at their
convenience.
Customers who live at a distance may judge from
patterns, selected with discriminating taste and sent
post free to any address on request.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS TO ORDER-3 guineas, 70/=, 75/=,
4 guineas, 95/=, 5 guineas, 115/=, 6 guineas, 137/=, 7 guineas.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
GOWING BROS. LTP.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods.
4§4 to 490 GEORGE STREET, and 3 to 17 ROYAL. ARCADE.
New Branch Shop at 304 GEORGE STREET (near* Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON 3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT PIG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRANULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMONIAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
DUST, REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES. containing
Lead. Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quin-
lan, Gray and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Added to Nominal
j u ly Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1903.. i 7,499 5 p.c. = £3750 £3,749 £14,025
1904.. 4,311 5 „„ 3750 561 14,586
1905.. 31983 5 „ „ 3855 128 14,(14
1906.. 4,177 5 „„ 3855 322 l*>,o3fi
1907 5 025 5 .. „ 3855 1,1(0 16,206
1908.. 5 „ „ 3855 1,251 17,457
1909 6 369 5 „ ~ 380/ 2,512 1.9,969
1910" 7 478 5 3857 3,621 23,590
1911.; 7,329 5 „ „ 3960 3,369 26,959
1912 15 667 74 ~ ~ 5989 9,678 36,637
1913" 10 057 10' 7920 2,137 38,774
1914" 18 672 10 „ „ 7946 10,726 49,500
1915:: 15 303 10 ” 8003 7,300 56,800
1916.. 121039 10 „ „ 7830 4,209 61,009
Like most other Queensland cos. this one
looked into the mug after the boom of the
’9o’s had burst, and found that the froth
had gone and the beer in the bottom .was
very flat. Capital had then to be written
down hard in order to balance losses. Of
late years Queensland has been feeling very
fresh again—partly through natural good
times, partly from the effects of recent loans
—and it has been drinking this co. back
into a good position. The various move-
ments of capital, etc., are shown next:
1900. 1910. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital. . £150,075 £77,147 £77,847 £78,287 £78,300
Liabilities
balanced 111,613 60,751 87,918 89,683 92,817
l nlairt etc’ 141,535 90,965 129,682 130,033 131,149
Hotels .' 57,165 15,700 18,700 26,450 26,916
'’debtors'. 1 '. 1 76,809 59,202 70,961 72,395 77,976
Revenue. . 33,358 29,601 38,3a7 35,316 34,828
Expenses 22,377 22,026 19,685 20,013 22,789
Or put it this way. In the past 10 years
the co. has increased its debts _from £o4,dd9
to £1)6,274 —that is, by £31,935, and it has
got in £ll9B of new capital. jNleantime.it
has added £2764 to its cash, £41,379 to its
properties and plant, £16,634 to its stock,
£10,729 to its book debts, and £10,416 to its
pub properties. Approximately it shows
£BOOO more added to properties and plant
than its increased liabilities; and into the
bargain it has the £2764 added to cash, the
£l6 634 of stock, the £10,729 of new book
debts and the £10,416 of pub property. That
isn't bad going. If the assets are as well
written down to-day as they were 10 years
ago (and they seem to be), then in these
10 years, after steadily working up the divi-
dend from 5 to 10 p.c., the co. has accumu-
lated profits equal to two-thirds of the cap-
ital. What has been put by —on paper, at
any rate —has been equal to 6 p.c. p.a. on
the capital. And, as the table shows, the
experience in the last five years has been
much more glittering than the average.
But you can’t fill a pewter with the beer
that is’ drunk, and brewery cos. can’t pay-
dividends out of the good times they have
had. Whether they will have similar good
times in the future this paper doesn’t know.
The wowser has been having an uncom-
monly good time lately, but it has only been
because he has been able to make use of the
special circumstances of the hour rope in
thousands who are not wowsers. Neverthe-
less. the change to early pub-closing having
been made, it will be very difficult to extend
the hours even in normal times. But what
difference that is going to make in brewery
receipts is another matter. The South
Aus. Co. told its shareholders the other day
that while bottlings had increased by 50
p.c. the bulk trade had not fallen away—
an astonishing result which would have been
more impressive if the directors hadn’t sim-
ultaneously reduced the dividend.
Amalgamated Insurance (Australia),
Ltd., has practically ceased to be an Aus-
tralian concern. The co. couldn’t get per-
mission to sell any more shares, and as it
couldn’t go ahead without more capital it
allowed an English co. to swallow it. “All
the directors have agreed to transfer their
shares,” the directors reported on Sept. 19,
“and they strongly recbipmend the share-
holders to follow their example. The num-
ber of shares transferred to date is close
on 150,000 out of a total of 159,876.” The
co.. it may be remembered, does no direct
insurance, but stands behind and provides
the capital of smaller local cos. in Sydney.
Melbourne and elsewhere. This co.’s capital
is £37,611; and all it has to show for that
and £IBSI of debt to the public is—
Shares in subsidiary cos. .. .. £19,233
Furniture .. .. . . .. _ 132
Sundries and cash .. . . .. 5,383
Ail the rest is froth and bubble —preliminary
exes., underwriting commission, and the like.
What the shares in the subsidiary cos. are
worth this paper doesn’t know. It is pretty
certain much if not most of the money has
gone in “business extension” exes. too. It
is difficult to see, then, how the Amalgamated
could have carried on with any reasonable
chance of success.
The directors, as in duty bound, point out
the great strength of the London and Lan-
cashire, which is the purchaser. They. say
that “it is proposed to conserve the indi-
viduality of the co.’s offices. Each co. will
continue. to act as heretofore.” They add
that “the facilities for handling large lines
of insurance are very much increased.” The
Bulletin, for its part, adds that the Amal-
gamated and the subsidiary offices will no
longer be Australian, and that if Australians
think that their insurance money is best
invested in Australia and that Australian
insurance profits are best spent in Australia,
they will place their business somewhere else.
If, however, merely strength is wanted, and
nothing else matters, the L. & L. is good
enough for anybody.
* * * *
The Federal Building Society (Mel-
bourne) :—•
Business Profit Total Dividend Re-
Sept., Profits, on Sales. Profit. (4 p.c.). serves.
1905.. £4,323 £1495 £5,818 £3854 £28,452
(4i p.c.)
1906.. 4,924 684 5,608 4336 29,724
(5 p.c.)
1907.. 5,605 425 6,030 4817 30,937
(6 p.c.)
1908.. 6,299 144 6,443 5781 31,599
(64 p.c.)
1909.. 7,140 7,140 6263 32,476
(7 p.c.)
1910.. 7,607 7,607 6745 33,338
1911.. 8,233 8.233 6745 34,826
1912.. 9,540 - 9,540 6745 37,621
1913.. 8,658 8,658 7019 39,260
1914.. 13,027 13,027 8921 43,366
1915.. 13,659 13,659 8960 48,065
(74 p.c.)
1916.. 13,430 13,430 9600 51,895
This is one of the old reconstructed Mel-
bourne building societies that may have a
future. In 1904 there was a revaluation
and the capital was reduced to about
£92,000; and as the assets were estimated to
be worth a good deal more than that, the
surplus was put to reserves —partly as a
sort of contingency fund, no doubt, for there
were still a few properties to get rid of. But
those sales instead of making a loss have
returned a profit, apparently. Anyway,
they did for the first few years; after that
the' results of the sales were not disclosed.
Hence there may now perhaps be an internal
reserve somewhere. Since the reconstruc-
tion a little more capital has been got in
and deposits have been forthcoming to
finance a gradually-expanding advance busi-
ness. This comparison shows what has
been done :—•
Liabilities.
1905. 1910. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Deposits, etc. £365 £43,830 £84,862 £81,586 £65,303
Assets.
Advances.. 92,870 152,156 251,633 251,905 247,921
Properties 37,415 16,729 5,547 122 122
Cash .. 54 8,006 3,523 10,13/ 2,270
Depositors are very well protected. If the
assets were worth only about os., in the £
they would cover the co.’s liabilities. And,
almost as important, they seem to be a
revenue-producing lot. As for shareholders,
they will probably find new business pretty
hard to get during the next few years. But
they shouldn’t make any serious loss of prin-
cipal ; and their visible reserves are now so
substantial that even if the directors make
only 5 p.c. net on their funds it will be equal
to 7 p.c. on their capital.
* * * *
The Solomon Islands Rubber - Planta-
tion Co. (Brisbane) :—This co. owns what
were formerly known as Captain Svensen’s
concessions, consisting of between 13,000
and 14.000 acres freehold. Five years ago,
at the end of the co.’s first year, there were
255 acres under cocoanut and 112 acres
under rubber, all the rubber and most of
the cocoanut having been planted before the
co. took the estates over. The bottom hav-
ing fallen but of the rubber boom, no more
trees have been planted ; but 891 acres are
now growing nuts. Progress is thus seen
to be pretty slow; for as capital is limited
(the co. is in 60,000 pound shares and
£54,475 had been paid up as at July 31).
the co. is cutting down expenses, and is
hopeful of either selling out or making the
present limited plantation presently pay for
the gradual extension of the area under
crop. Last year the co. nominally made a
profit of £757 ; but £520 of that went to pay
interest and the rest was written off against
depreciation. Most of the interest goes to
the vendor, who allowed £BOOO of the pur-
chase money to stand on mortgage payable
in 1925. When the war started there was
talk of a sale of the estates, and the co.
gave an option ; but nothing has been done
since. Even if the co. had the capital it
would probably have trouble to get a big
labor force. Under present conditions it
looks as though all the cos. operating in the
Solomons will have to go slow and be satis-
fied with that. They are not the only
people in the world who can t make as
much money as they would like to because
they can’t get as many as they want or tne
right sort of people to help them do iu
Joe Gardiner, Ltd. (Sydney), formed to
take over various boot-retailing shops as
from August 1, 1911 (the deficit to begin
with was made up of goodwill £b <i < and
flotation exes. £II3S) :
July, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1911.. o-.7,^10
1912.’.' £7,800 10 p.c. = £3500 £4300 3,615
’ Reserves.
1913.. 12,465 12* „ „ 4375 8090 4,475
1914.. 12,958 12* „ „ 4375 8583 13>0o8
1915 7 410 124 ~ ~ 4721 2689 10,74/
1916:: 7,476 12*”” 5607 1860 17,616
In the first year of the war profits fell nearly
far enough to break their neck. Joe seems to
have sold as many boots, but the outgoings
(wages, rents, taxes and general trade exes.)
flew along. Look at these figures :
1914. 1915. 1916.
Gross profit on trading .. £55,186 £68,896 £64,778
Exes, (wages, taxes, etc.) .. 41p80 45, 1 88 ; -'6,46.,
Besides those exes, there are directors’ fees
(constant at a very moderate £100), depre-
ciation and 7£ p.c. commission on dividends
paid to the managing director. But, not-
withstanding the rush of expenses, the co. can
still afford to think that the world is a very
good place to live in. ' It began with £<9ls
of its capital unrepresented by tangible
• assets. It has in the subsequent five years
averaged a 12 p.c. div. on the capital, and
meantime it has accumulated not only that
£7915, but £17,616 besides. True, whether
that is a genuine reserve —whether, in other
words, the co. has all its capital intact and
that much besides—depends entirely upon the
stocktaking. The directors called in an out-
side expert to check their officers’ work, and
he certifies that he found the stock even better
than it was in 1914. “I note the conspicu-
ous absence of depreciated and odd lines....
I found it up-to-date, clean and exceedingly
well bought.”
The stock shows a large addition during
the year:—l9l4, £54,532 ; 1915, £69,972 ;
1916, £92,299.* Yet, notwithstanding that
heavy stock, and though the capital is only
£44,873, the total liabilities amount to no
more than £43.608. That such a stock can
be carried in such circumstances is due to
two things: strictly cash trading and the
fact that the co. has put nothing into
properties—anyway, only £2llO, which may
be for stables or something of the sort. And
it can be fairly said, too, that the co. couldn't
make such profits any other way. _ The
point is, Does it give the same security as
a concern with half or two-thirds of its
capital in city freehold? Well, it may. A
stock of boots may be just as easily sold and
be just as good value as a city freehold. The
risk lies in the fact that, while the freehold
represents one purchase of which you can
get particulars, the stock represents con-
tinuous purchases; and to be a continuous
success means continuously good man-
agement —which is the hardest thing in the
world to get. The co.’s capital is now in
35.000 fullv-paid £1 shares and 19,745 shares
paid to 10s.; and in view of the liabilities
it is intended to ask permission of the
Treasury to get the other 10s. from the
shareholders instead of depending upon the
bank for it. The call will probably be made
early next year.
* * * *
This is the London Times’ announcement
regarding “the Government spelter scheme” :
Briefly the question was how best to provide
facilities for the treatment of the 400,000 tons of
zinc concentrates annually produced in Australia,
the great bulk of which formerly went to Germany.
The extremely high price which, owing to our
dependence upon foreign supplies, lias had to bp
paid for spelter, required in the making of muni-
tions, has imparted to the subject a national im-
portance and rendered an early solution of the
difficulty eminently desirable. The British Govern-
ment has agreed to purchase 100.000 tons of zinc
concentrates per annum during the war and the
same quantity yearly for 10 years after the war.
it has also agreed to purchase for 10 years 45,000
tons per annum of spelter produced in Australia;
and as it takes 2* tons of concentrates to produce
one ton of spelter, this represents an additional
112,500 tons of concentrates. With the amount now
taken privately the total amount of concentrates
to be treated’ within the Empire will under this
arrangement be about 250,000 tons, compared with
an almost negligible quantity before the war. _ Nego-
tiations are proceeding with France and Belgium to
take the remainder of the concentrates produced in
the Commonwealth, but no arrangement with those
countries can be carried into effect until the war is
over. , ,
A sum of about 25 millions sterling is involved
in this agreement, and the fact that the British
Government has at last decided to enter into com-
mitments of such an amount must be attributed _in
great measure to the ability and vigor with which
Mir. Hughes handled the situation. The Imperial
Government has also agreed to advance £500.000
towards the cost of the erection of the necessary
plants in Australia to produce the spelter. The
concentrates to be acquired by the British Govern-
ment will, presumably, be smelted by the companies
which have arranged with the Ministry of Munitions
to increase their plant to treat an additional 100,000
tons. But the scheme, extensive as it may appear,
will not render this country entirely independent of
foreign supplies of spelter, and, judged by this
standard, it is disappointing. Nevertheless it is
highly satisfactory that the control of the spelter
industry has now been wrested from the Germans.
Deprived of the Broken Hill production of concen-
trates, they can never become important competitors
in the market.
But that is where the Times makes a mis-
take. The Germans needn’t smelt in Ger-
many to enter the spelter market. As *.
matter of fact, they hitherto did a vast
amount of their smelting in Belgium and a
little of it in Northern France. Ihey can
do it in future in the U.S.A., where plants
are either completed or almost completed
capable of supplying the world s normal con-
sumption. Nearly the whole of these plants
are owned by the German metal interest-
Now what about price? Is the price of Aus-
tralian concentrates in England to be gov-
erned by what the Germans are prepared to
sell American spelter for in an unprotected
English market? For note two things. (1)
there is still no word about l rotection in
England; (2) there is still no word about
price. The whole thing continues deplorably
vague, and until there are details the solu-
tion of the spelter problem’ must oe re-
garded as a myth. s *
New Boddington, a recent Westralian addi-
tion to the Melbourne and Adelaide Ex-
change lists, closed the hali-year endec
August with a cash balance of £2285. Inc
show is situated at Goongarne, otherwise
“the 90 mile,” and was optioned last year.
Bullion amounting to £6OOO was won from
the old workings, and in order to complete
the deal the co. increased its nominal cap-
ital from £3750 to £12,000. Other makes
of ore have since been opened up and drawn
on, and a small treatment plant is being
installed. No estimate of ore reserves is
given in the report, but the manager
cipates no difficulty in obtaining sufficient
payable ore to keep the mill going. But
that still remains to be proved.
* * *
111-fated Princess Royal (W.A.) has
taken an option on the Happy Jack lease
at Comet Vale. About £20,000 has been
dug out of the show to date, and there are
about 5000 tons of sands and slimes reputed
to be worth from 20s. to 30s. per ton on the
surface. A lot of these are admitted to be
difficult to treat owing to lead and other
troublesome contents, but the Boaid
observes in an airy sort of way that no
doubt remedies can be found to overcome
this.” They may ; on the other hand they
may not.
* *
Last month Bullant Mclntyre applied to
Treasurer Higgs for permission to float
Vilen’s Find, and consent was granted pro-
vided (1) all capital is privately sub-
scribed; (2) the 6000 vendors’ shares are
lodged in escrow until at least six months
after the war; and (3) the 3000 under-
written shares are only issued pro rata
with 15,000 contributing shares. Mclntyre
is incensed with these conditions, and
threatens to abandon the flotation. lie
might do worse than that. *
Hans Irvine, who watched the Black
Range-Pinnacles’ first clean-up, before
returning to Melbourne took a sampling
■option over the Triplicate at Tuckabianna
and also pegged one or two of the surround-
ing areas.
° * * *
The latest is that Edna Deeps intends
to raise a necessary £lO.OOO by issuing S
p.c. debentures at par with a currency of
two years. This is foolish financing and
deserves Treasurer Higgs’s axe. What the
co. ought to have done long back was to
have given over leaning on Duff for cash,
got permission to sell its 10.000 shares,
taken the market at the flood, and thus
pouched enough cash to carry it down to
No. 2 level (at 580 ft.) or so. Now the co.
owes a good bit over the £4OOO due to Duff,
and if it hits a streak of bad luck in a
burst of water or poor patches its condition
will be rocky. The right thing is to seek
permission to call up another 10s. per share.
If the mine opens up quickly and the dill
is O.K. there wouldn’t be any need to ask
shareholders for more than a shilling oi
two. And there wouldn’t be any 5 p.c.
com. to pay to underwriters, or any options
to convert the bonds into shares at 255.
* * * *
Captain Teddy Miles, A. W. Palfreyman
and two Chinese boss the Katoo Deebook.
which has settled down to a quiet life after
its pre-war boom. Last l 2 months the
dredge ate up 650,000 cubic yards of drift,
out of which 2254 tons tin oxide went to the
smelter. Thus the ground averaged 0.7761 b.
oxide per cub. yd., worth 7.947 d., with the
oxide bringing £95 10s. lOd. per ton net.
With costs at 5.223 d. the net profit is 2.<24d.
per cub. yd., or £21,515 with all outgo
covered. The co. has issued 85,000 shares,
representing £78,002 capital. Diys. returned
thus far are only £B5OO, so the capital is a
long time coming back. Miles, jun.. runs
the dredge, and has been boring a bit ahead
of the plant. His best is lib. ground. This
is on the eastern slope. To the west the
stuff averages TO \qp. oxide, which means
close work to run to a profit. These values
are not cheering alongside the original pro-
spectus figures. Then 19 bores put down
under Captain Teddy’s supervision averaged
1.241 b. per cub. jd.; others sunk 44 years
previously averaged 1.161 b. There was said
to be sufficient firewood on the property to
last for years; now the “fuel problem” gives
concern.' Work has suffered also from the
uneven bottom. It must all represent a series
of horrible disappointments to the captain,
who simply went nap on this show.
Eric Bvron Moore, son of the V.R.C. secre-
tary, is doing his bit in Siam bustling things
on for A. W. Palfreyman’s latest tin ven-
ture, the Ronpibon. To fill in time lie has
taken over 36 acres, on which a horde of


THE FIRST DUTY a Man ones to
Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight vears’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Ago at Entry, 35. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 IS 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
'/£AREBO«NTO
jin Pcneius
Fire, Marin
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital . 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established, 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
Ihe record of the Canterbury Farmers’
Lo-op. Association, Ltd., should surely point
“L® wa/ to Australian farmers. ' Here
/ odd-odd co-operating farmers of Canterbury
nave built up a co. which has for years been
saving them o p.c. on the cost of their pur-
chased goods, saving them 30 p.c. of their
selling commissions, returning them 84
p.c. on their invested capital, and studying
their interests all the time. True, as already
1 emarked, the Association has beem particu-
iariy fortunate in its management but if
other co-op. concerns were to do no more
than slavishly follow the pattern set by this
co. they could hardly fail of some success.
It is only when all the farmers of Australia
and Maorilancl are organised for business
as are the Canterbury farmers that they can
hope to wield their full power, commercially
or politically.*
8.1.i1. Mazda Electric Lamps with drawn-wire
Ida merits are especially adaptable to mine service
Strength, durability and economy, the predominat-
ing characteristics of B.T.H. Mazda Lamps, hav<
achieved for them their world-wide popularity foi
mine installation, where they remain intact undei
toe most severe service conditions. MAZDA is not
merely the name of a thing, bnt the mark of s
service the splendid operating records of which an
used as a basis for repeat orders where installations
are planned which require dependable, durabli
lamps. —Ativt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino
feme is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department
bydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter Rivei
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., foi
precipitating impurities and clarifying ’ water it
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/300C
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for eithei
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Mater is :>, valuable asset in summei
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have il
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. vard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Bd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. —Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wooo Pipe conquers difficulties! Not only
does it carry all fluids, hot or cold, without deteriora-
tion, but it is light to handle and can quickly be
laid by unskilled labor. It is the cheapest piping
to buy. Send for illustrated catalogue. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Company, Limited (head office),
57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; Foots-
ciay, Victoria; Port Adelaide, S.A.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and. all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates, supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iren, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.— Advt.
* * * *
Eauth-iiandlinq- and Road-building Machinerv,.
Concrete Mixers, Robey Traction Engines, National
Suction Gas Engines, modern conveying outfits, pump-
ing installations, stonecrushing plants specialised in
by Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; and Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth, and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yearV practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 4
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 5
„ £783,611 0 (1
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. =======3
Gen. Mmn. : Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Public Trustee
Acts as
Attorney, Agent,
Administrator, Executor
and Trustee,
and should be consulted before an
appointment is made.
STATE GUARANTEE.
Write or Call for full particulars,
T. W. GARRETT,
Culwulla Chambers, Public Trustee,
fit Oastlereasrh Street. Sydney.
Chinese have earned a living by open-cast
work, and he is applying his engineering
skill to ripping out the tin more cheaply than
the coolies can do it. This ought to give him
profits for the two dredges that are being got
lor the Ronpibon area. He has also
taken options over a couple of blocks a
stone’s-tlirow away from Ronpibon. J. S.
Henry has been called in to do the dredge
designing, and with 40ft. of clay and drift in
the eastern block lie will have to go for a big
plant to prevent a buckle-up under the stress
and strain of the lift. It's up to Palfreyman
to see that tlfe job of building this plant isn’t
let outside Australia. A smaller dredge may
be got in Malaya or Siam to treat the west-
ern ground. If so, Ronpibon will be on the
yield-list more smartly than most tin shows.
* * * *
Ratrut, one of the Sydney-owned Malay
ventures, has had a trial run with its dredge.
Satisfactory, but substitute pump ineffici-
ent, ’ the manager wires. The matter of
the pump shouldn’t be serious, as the one
intended for permanent service left England
on Sept. 10 and should be near the mine now.
* * * *
Great Britain (N.S.AV.) comes along with
another shilling; during its comparatively
short life it has scattered 55. But, then,
there are only 10,000 shares of 10s. each.
J.-ast half-year the output averaged a trifle
over 12 toys 6cwt. of black tin per month,
so the latest clean-up of G tons lOcwt. doesn’t
indicate any increase. Expenses are high
and bind’ tin is costing over £BO per ton to
prodr.v.', so th.f little co. owes everything to
the men n.niiet. Alluvial tin in creeks is
rapidly C °<i. and it is increasingly diffi-
cult to go; i v and profitable sites to shift
sluicing pj.;,.> o,
* * * *
The Golden Horseshoe, Oberon (N.S.W.),
having fizzled oflt, S. J. Plain’s Collins-
street office uses the co. to capture the Long-
Tunnel alluvial mine, Station Hill, Dayles-
ford. This arrangement looks like a clever
move to dodge the barbed-wire entanglements
erected to prevent new company promotions.
But deep-lead work wants encouraging, and
there seem to be some chances of the Long
Tunnel making good out of either the Blue
or the Yellow gutters which it proposes to
cut up. Manager Evans asks for £lOOO to
spend on driving the big bottom tunnel.
Ihen lie will rise, drain the gutters, work
the mine by gravitation and pay divs. It
looks too good to be true, seeing that vendors
part with the claim for 2000 shares paid to
2s. and £25 cash.
* * * *
The enlistment of Professor David for
service at the Front shook up the men who
had been through the mining course at
Sydney Uni.; and a lot who are not by
rights duo for service for a long while yet
have voluntarily gone into khaki. The latest
to get his directors’ permission to move on
is Warlow Davies, who has been successfully
reorganising operations at the Y Water,
N. S. Wales’s biggest tin-washing proposi-
tion.
* * * *
‘M.C.”: Sulphuric acid is now used
largely in Australia for superphosphates and
the separation of minerals, so the recent
rise in the price of acid is affecting ore
treatment and the manufacture of ferti-
lisers. Everything points to a large in-
crease in the manufacture of acid. The
L.S.A. produced no less than 3.868,150 tons
last year, and the supply fell short of
requirements, so the recent price for strong-
acid (60 degree) was £4 per ton. The
contact process depends on a property of
platinum; and the demand for acid has
caused a very high market for this scarce
metal, accentuated by the fact that Russia
has _ prohibited export. Some years ago
platinum and iridium were obtained in fair
vc-HVt 6 ? , om alluviaJ diggings at Fifield
-...■•)> but the valuable supplv was
.‘.acniiced to foreign buyers at a ridiculous
price. The world’s output is only 300,0000 z.
a year.
* * * *
Twenty years ago, when platinum last had
any real attention from Australian pros-
pectors, the price was about a couple of
pounds per ounce; and a lot of it was sold
for much less. The N. S. Wales Mines De-
partment s returns for 1894, for instance,
t ! iat 10G0oz - were valued at £1390. In
l.nj the miners (still at Fifield mostly)
washed up GlOoz. and got £3BBO for it—over
£6 per 07.. Last year the output was less,
hut the value averaged £9 per oz. The
metal occurs in many districts of Australia
of which the Mines Departments have par-
ticulars ; and the old reports might be worth
turning over.
**• * *
“K.M.”: “Paddymelon” (B. 12/10/’l6)
wants to know “what is wrong with apply-
ing the principle of the vacuum cleaner to rid
mines of dust and choD- damp?” Its im-
practicability, that’s all. The vacuum cleaner
idea I have certainly not tried, but a great
many appliances and reports of Royal Com-
missions to increase the life and efficiency
of a miner by combating the dust nuisance
underground have had my attention for some
time. Ingenious and complicated water
blasts and jets, sprays, dust arresters, dust
bags, masks, sponges and so on ad infinitum
have been advertised, reported on and demon-
strated pbut are there any of these appliances
used in a practical way in any mine in Aus-
tralia? Some appliances, under specially-
prepared conditions, have proved satisfac-
tory, but when introduced to ordinary condi-
tions of underground routine (especially in
mines worked on contract) they are useless.
And, anyway, they are not necessary; for
“Paddymelon” can find a solution of the dust
nuisance in mines by the simple application
of water. Lay a water-pipe into every work-
ing face and, when boring dry holes or
“uppers,” use a water-jet froth a half-inch
hose and a one-sixteenth-inch brass nozzle,
with a head of 501 b. to 801 b. per square inch,
and dust troubles while boring will disappear.
But the source of dust does not begin and
end in a boring face, as many people imagine.
To rid a mine of dust insist upon and compel
your miners (if you can) to observe the fol-
lowing precautions:—
(1) Before starting' to bore, thoroughly wet the
floor, roof and sides of the working face.
(2) When boring dry holes, use a water jet.
(3) Before shovelling' ore, wet it thorough!}’ six
times per shift.
(4) Before using a popping machine on lumps,
thoroughly wet all around the lumps to prevent the
exhaust raising dust.
(5) When using-, a popper use also a spray.
(6) Sack any trucker who pulls dtisty ore out of
a shoot.
These conditions are practical, and any
miner is capable of observing them. Insist
on plenty of water and very good results
are obtained. Water-feed rockdrills using
hollow steel are ideal in the matter of
thoroughly wetting the working place. In
fact, they have a tendency to overdo it. But
the water-feed drill is not a success in very
hard ground owing to excessive wear and
cost of upkeep. With improvements, how-
ever, it will not be long before it must be
universally used for underground work.
* * * *
_“G.D.M.” ; In 1913 Germany mined
87,475,000 tons of brown coal and Austria-
Hungary 36,340,010 tons. The Victorian
Government Geologist reckons there are 30
thousand million tons of brown coal in Vic-
toria lying idle. Why? To the thoughtful
V ictorian the neglect of our brown coal
resources is as incomprehensible as it is
foolish.
* * * *
As expected. Corella (Q.) has had to
suspend smelting; but the rainy season
should be along shortly, and meanwhile
Corella can replenish ore reserves in its
Rosebud mine. The Rosebud has provided
the bulk of the 7320 tons smelted in four
months, and the production of 830 tons of
matte containing approximately, 390 tons of
copper gives a fair idea of the grade-—under
5J p.c. copper. Coke is very expensive and
wages are high ; so after charging for mine
development there is no fortune in it.
* * * *
On the figures of the Miners’ Accident
Relief Fund the N. S. Wales coal-miner is
still more liable to be taken home on a shut-
ter or in the ambulance than any other under-
ground worker. Per 100 employees the N. S
Wales “coalies” meet with 109 accidents
where the Broken Hill miners suffer 89 and
the Cobar district men 82. But the metal-
miner’s accident is much more likely to be
fatal. In fatal-accident benefits the North-
ern (Newcastle and Maitland) miners take
only 32.7 p.c. of the total paid out, though
they constitute 46 p.c. of the miners of the
State; while Broken Hill takes 30.4 p.c. of
the total fatal-accident payments, though
the Broken Hill men are only 20.5 p.c. of the
total.
* * * *
“Coot”: While Melbourne University has
frittered away its annual £lOOO for science
research amongst dust and bones (B.
-8/9/16), the Perth Technical School has
been looking for something to throw at the
enemy. During the last working year it
investigated :—-
(1) ihe extraction of toluene from the city gas,
and its conversion into the high explosive trinitroto-
luene.
(2) Ihe possibilities of ”blackboy” gum as a
source of picric acid (also used in explosive manu-
facture).
(3) The distillation of sawdust.
(4) The manufacture of nitro-cellulose from iarrah
sawdust.
(5) The manufacture of a paper pulp from jarrah
sawdust, also of oxalic acid from the same.
(6) The manufacture of salicylic acid. ,
One of the practical results was the manu-
facture of a high explosive from the saw-
dust of the jarrah and karri mills. A well-
washed and dried sample was kept for some
months without any signs of decomposition,
and the experimenters expect that it will
prove a cheap and effective charge for shells,
mines, farms, etc. The military authorities
have tried the explosive in bombs, and give
three cheers. But there’s heaps more work
waiting for Melbourne Uni. to do—heaps
without worrying just now about the cranial
measurements of King Billy.
S. Aus. is a fortunate State, for with only
25 men employed at lead mines it has 1100
employed at the Port Pirie smelters, which
are said to be the largest in the world. Gold-
mining gives employment to only 200 men,
but copper employs 2000, salt 375! fluxes 400.
and other mines 300.
* * * *
This from Ben Lomond Tin (Tas.) :
“Plant has been installed on an ideal site,
and seems thoroughly equipped, and as there
is a prospect of an abundance of ore, the
completion of the gas-producer is only neces-
sary before crushing commences.” Gas
before crushing, what after? An ideal site?
* * * *
A striking illustration of how the primary
producer can help himself is afforded by the
Farmers’ Co-operative Association of Can-
terbury, Ltd., which, under the guidance of
the late Charles Ensor, set out 35 years ago
to teach the Maoriland cocky the value of
co-operation. These were its objects :
(1) To facilitate the storing', shipment and sale
of co-operators’ produce ;
(2) to make advances to shareholders; and
(3) to provide shareholders with tools of trade,
machinery, bags and sacks, seed, etc., at reasonable
prices.
At first cocky was not enthusiastic about the
scheme, and for the first year all the capital
the secretary and office-boy had to work on
was £3511. Nevertheless the Association was
a success from the jump, and although the
whole volume of business of the 800 co-
operators for the first 12 months was only
£15,234, earnings were £B5O and net profits
£l7O. Gradually the conservatism and pre-
judice of the Canterbury farmers was dis-
solved, and when the co. was 15 years old
2838 shareholders on their half-million
pounds’ turnover earned almost £22,000, re-
ceived 10 p.c. on their capital, 4 p.c. bonus
on goods and a 25 p.c. rebate commission, and
had accumulated reserves of £17.097 which
were being used in the business.
The history of the co. has been one of un-
broken progress ; but it has been blessed with
exceptionally good management. Share-
holders have been extremely fortunate in this
respect; many other co-op. concerns have
been wrecked in their infancy for the lack
of prudence and good business direction. The
Farmers’ Co-op. Association of Canterbury
Ltd. is now regarded as a model, and dozens
of younger cos. in Australia are fashioning
themselves on the lines of the big brother
across the Tasman—-a true big brother who
is always willing to lend a hand to the
smaller cos. to help put their enterprise on
the right track. Further, when the Canterbury
farmers discovered what wonderful results
were being attained in handling their pro-
ducts, they were naturally anxious to extend
the scope of their own co. So now they run
a universal store, manufacture twine (also
supplying other co-op. concerns), have a
bacon factory, make their own fertilisers and
indent their own motor vehicles. Share-
holders will benefit considerably from the
federation of co-op. associations, which this
co. has been deeply interested in promoting.
At present, shareholders are saved all retail
profits; the federation will further save
wholesale and manufacturers’ profits.
Despite adverse war conditions and an
unfavorable season, the year ended July 31
last was a remarkably prosperous one for
the co., the turnover of £3,591,321 repre-
senting an increase of a third of a million
pounds on the previous year’s figures. This
shows the growth in earnings during recent
years (and the point to be remembered is
that the co-operators have earned this money
for themselves) ;—-
„ . 1909. 1914. 1915. 1916.
Commissions ..£17,862 £30,945 £25,986 £35 082
Finance.. .. 4,818 20,333 19,917 20,882
Merchandise .. 60,517 86,664 90,792 98,252
Gram stores . . 857 1,095 1,254 1 564
Auctions.. .. 5,616 15,684 13,067 17,194
Ir. its wool department the co. is making
solid progress, and the number of bales
offered has increased from 7962 in 1909 to
12,608 for the past season. It is highly
significant that the increase in the clip
for the district for the past 12 months
this co. captured no less than 85 per cen.t.
An unusually dry season caused a slight
falling-off in the demand for the co.’s arti-
ficial manures, but compared with the out-
put of 2460 tons seven years ago the figures
now stand at 8327 tons.
One of the most important functions of a
co-operative concern is to assist sharehold-
ers financially. The farmer’s pay-day is, as
a rule, only once a year, but he has to meet
a lot of expenses before be receives his
cheque. The farmer who is not in a co-
operative co. such as this finds himself at
the mercy of half a dozen different creditors
the bank, the storekeeper, the machinery
man and others who are ready to suck him
dry for profit. ()ften. in order to escape, he
gambles on liis crop and sells it in advance ;
and that is like playing with a man who has
loaded the dice. In a co-op. concern he has
but one creditor—his own co. Advances to
shareholders against stock, grain and "pro-
duce all made on the strictest business
basis—represent one of the Association’s
chief assets. Last year they stood at
£493,994, compared with £219.504 seven
years ago.
Ihe financial position of the Association
is particularly strong. Share capital paid
11 P £446,376: shareholders’ deposits
amount to £346,866; and shareholders’
credit balances, £307,802. The balance-sheet
also shows £32,850 due to sundry creditors,
but as that amount represents nothing more
than current purchases, practically the
whole of the co.’s liabilities are with its own
shareholders, which is extremely satisfae-
r°m3 in l * llBl these liabilities are : Advances.
stock - £206,350; freeholds, etc.,
liih’nno 1 v, ,ok debts » *259,304; and cash.
£310,008. l>ut the most striking feature of
the balance-sheet is the magnificent growth
m reserves—from £67,991 in 1909 to well
over £145,000 at present.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 3 4.)


CIMRUS
BEIDSIECKS
Vinlage 1906
QlfflP/WI
HE PLUS DLTRfI
h
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
ftOSIC
ALI AN & CO.
prr. lti. yy
FINE PIANO PIECES
YOU NEED.
Puce 2-/. posted 2/1
Norwegian Cradle Song — Mvel
Meditation - - More,
A Resolve - - Kotlar
Question - - Koilar
Contemplation « * Kotlar
Moorish Danse - Eugene Btore
ALLAN S. 261 Collins St.. Welb.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (SL CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1900.
FESQ (a CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 23. 1916.
My Dear Au’ini.—
On a sun-kissed Australian afternoon a
thousand of Our Girls saluted the G.-G. in
Government House Grounds. They were
the V.A.D.’s, and they moved about the
green lawn like relays of stiffly-starched
white lilies with the Red Cross of service
blazoned on their pinnies. Lady Helen,
in dove grey, bowed low to the first line of
each detachment (there were 35) as it
swung past. The manly tread of the
Y'.A.Q.’s caught the fancy of the Boy Scouts,
who broke their line (they had been a
guard of honor to get a better view.
Lady Edeline watched proceedings from
the family chaise. And afterwards Mrs.
Jim Ashton. Mrs. Laidley, Ella Richards
(the tireless Missie of the Old Linen
depot), Hanbury Davies (a consistent bar-
racker for the V.A.D.’s) and a few more of
the quality were either asked to tea in the
sub-regal chalet or felt they deserved it.
Surgeon-Colonel Lane Mullins was ill, so a
junior—Ward, A.A.M.C. —reigned in his
stead. For haughty military mien—no
looking this way or that on duty—Comman-
dant Edie Fisher, of the Killara White
Caps, may be commended for a brigadier-
generalship. ' The label is going pretty well
all round in the home service, and why
shouldn’t the V.A.D. girls have one for their
tea parties?
Lady Helen opened the Home Mission
ladies' sale of work in the Town Hall. It
ranged from kitchen pots to gossamer lace,
and was entirely surrounded by stall-holders
and clerics. Arclibish Wright and a strong
fleet of the black cloth laid in wait for her
Ex. at the door and convoyed her through
a dizzy maze of plain and fancy needlework.
After a pithy oration on Good Works, the
G.-G.’s lady sat down behind a bunch of
yellow roses. Mrs. Wright, in a Quaker-
grey gown, was in the next chair.
Little A.D.C. Haskett Smith did some
brisk marketing at the Home Mission bazaar
the other afternoon. One duty of a gentle-
man help is to follow his lady’s steps through
a maze of underlinen and other feminine
circumstances. This warrior, resting after
his serious injuries in France, isn’t afraid
of the job. Gallantly' he shadowed Lady
Helen with a roll of banknotes in one
hand and a growing pyramid of brown-paper
parcels under the other arm. But he
grabbed the choicest morsels of lace and
muslin as if they’d been a round of ammu-
nition ; and I’m afraid there vms some iron-
ing to be done when that mission lingerie
reached Admiralty House.
Tall soldier Firth, A.D.C., rejoined the
G.-G. at Duntroon, where he’d been con-
valescing after the latest surgical P.S. to
his adventures in France.
Admiral Creswell’s wife is in Sydney on
a visit to Miss Henderson at Tresco, Eliza-
beth Bay. She has been speaking on con-
scription to other sailors’ wives—and sol-
diers’ wives too —and making a good job of
it.
It looked as if every Australian would
have a chance to say Yes on Saturday; but
there is one little lot that won’t. Dr.
Souter, the Adelaide man who finds his re-
creation in writing verse, thought of them ;
but. after taking an unconscionable time to
make inquiries, the Electoral Department
found it couldn’t be managed. So the Aus-
tralian army nurses who went off for service
in India —to be handy to the men in Meso-
potamia—won’t have a chance to say what
they think about it all.
Since the Spring rains the gardens have
broken into an orgy of blooms, and the
most gluttonous aphis is gorged •with rose
petals. So Manly had a flower-show
rcdivivys —do you remember its gorgeous
exhibits o'f bush flora long ago?—for the
patriotic hat. War Chest Walker declared
the buds well ,'Hid truly open and patted
(he village on its broad brown back.
Paul Dufa ult’s picturesque silver top
waves farewell to Sydney next Saturday
night at his fourth and final concert. The
first brought a party from Admiralty House.
Manager Freddie Shipman caught them
near the front steps, and showed the way.
Lady Helen with three musketeers in at-
tendance —Aides Firth and Haskett Smith
and the tall, new secretary Eliot—sat
through the usual cyclone of encores.
Brisbane’s Anglican gaiters, the cheery
Donaldson, sat on the right hand of great-
ness. On the other side was a small lady
with a hurried style in hairdressing—pos-
sibly Mrs. Eliot. The G.-G.’s new sec. —he
of the coal-black moustache- —has his wile
here. In the audience Mrs. .T. C. William-
son camped with little Mrs. Shipman, and
the bronze locks of .Mrs. Brunton (Dot s
youthful mamma) were in the same selec-
tion. Dufault was in his best voice; but,
then, he’s rarely in anything else. He owns
about the most reliable tenor that comes
this way. Pauline Bindley and Florence
Seapini tripped hither and thither (thither
being the artists’ cave under the organ) to
bob to the encore fiends.
Lady Galway comes for the big Red
Gross meeting this week. Sydney hasn t
heard the South Australian vice-regal on
the platform. But she has a high reputa-
tion for elegant phrasing in the grape-
country.
The Stricklands go to Hill View after
the Red Cross corroboree. The country
sojourn is only intermittent, of course, as
far as his Ex. is concerned. He catches
the trains that bring the morning milk to
town, and may be depended on to rouse
the seven sleepers if there’s an official docu-
ment to sign in Sydney.
May Gibbs, whose
gum-nut b a hies
blink at you in
countless Christmas
calendars, is wear-
ing her Australia
Day smile in this
little picture. The
lively infant knuts
have made her one
of the best-known
of our younger
women artists. Yet
she’s almost a
stranger in our
midst, with the
retiring habits of
an oyster. “It’s
just a question of
sticking to one’s
work—and I love
mine—or neglecting- it for social clatter.”
And she dabs a spot of pink on the cherub
cheek of a bush baby.
Born in England, May Gibbs was only a
toddler when her parents ( packed up for
Westralia. She stuck her tiny roots into
the new soil with a grip that is reflected in
all her work. Few women artists have such
a vivid conception of the weird beauty
shrined in the bush. May has created
imaginary legions of children and given
them to the giant gum-trees. Even the übi-
quitous imitator cannot steal them. They
are now the copyright property of their
foster mother. Trained in English art
schools, she has spent most of her life
in Australia. For three years, however,
she fought for a place in London. Then the
opportunity came.
“George Harrap—he’s a friend of artists
• —-of the publishing firm of George Harrap
and Co., saw my work. He offered me as
much illustrating as I could do; and I
began with a book called ‘Georgian Eng-
land.’ Many of this firm’s publications are
editions de luxe. Besides this, another
firm had brought out a fairy-story volume.
I wrote the letterpress, too —all about the
child, the cat and the London chimney-pots,
with their big family of little smuts.” But
the struggle to find a foothold had been
severe. Just when all was well. May Gibbs’s
health wore out, and had to be half-soled and
heeled in sunny Australia. For three years
her home has been in Sydney. The De-
partment of Education recently commissioned
her to illustrate some schoolbooks. Angus
and Robertson also bring out two of her
gum-nut baby booklets before Christmas.
Cabled that Mrs. Fairfax, widow of
Edward Ross Fairfax, formerly a partner in
John Fairfax & Sons, has died in England.
She was a daughter of the late Daniel
MacKehzie, of Camden-road, London. When
E. R. Fairfax sold his interest in the
5.M.11. to “Mr. James,” the consideration
was said to be £lOO,OO0 —which is some-
where about the amount of the paper’s
present annual profits.
Sydney has rarely had a Y.M.C.A. and
Y.W.C.A. conference wedged in between a
rush of gaiters to the annual Synod. Trams
are generally trimmed with at least one
bishop’s millinery at the homing hours of
the day. And the feminine supply of
Y.W.C.A. pince-nez is entitled to respectful
mention. Archbishop Donaldson, by the way,
went over the harbor to finish his Sydney
stay with the G.-G. at Admiralty House.
Surrounded by the traffic near the top of
William-street, Miss Brace addressed a con-
scription meeting for about 10 minutes. It
was the end of an evening’s campaign
against the shirkers. The horticultural
lady, who came back from England a few
months ago, throws an unexpected bomb
into the glass house of our dear old Peace
Society. She says that for the first time in
their history the Quakers see red. Numer-
ous sons of the gentle brotherhood are now
willing fighters in France. And it’s more
than “I beg thee to move on” when they
meet the Hun. Gladys Marks, 8.A., a lucid
expounder of the Allies’ cause, was booked
to address the big outdoor crowd. But it
was too late to do anything but board a
car for home. Still she has taken her turn
elsewhere.
The Guyong garden fete cleared about
£2OO for the 17th Battalion comforts boxes.
Not a bad haul for an afternoon party.
The Australia intends to spread its winter
garden back towards Pitt-street, throwing
the barber’s quarters downstairs to make
room for it. Then there’ll be yards more
space to be crammed with small tea-tables to
accommodate more girls with their hats on
their ears.
A truly... beautiful trio from W.A. adorn
that same winter garden these spring days.
Mrs. Woolf and two daughters. They are
related to the Sam Horderns. The youngest
one of the group is in early flapperhood, and
her nimbus of golden-brown hair must be a
great comfort to her in these days when
the flapper has few consolations. All the
High School boys are learning to shoot
instead of to dance.
Theo Cowan has started work on a memo-
rial tablet-portrait of Eric Alan Vance —a
gallant young brother of Dr. Vance —-who
was killed at Gallipoli.
The War Funds people are talking cheer-
fully of the fat boxes that are on their way
to our boys abroad. From the War Chest
alone 13,000 cases of plum duff and other
comforts have proceeded. H. E. Budden,
this fund’s chief commissioner, comes back
to private life, and Mr. Woodburn is get-
ting ready for the hon. billet, while old
skipper A. W. Pearse, the much-travelled
Cornishman, goes to Egypt to replace
Assistant-Commissioner Larcombe amongst
the sand-storms.
The Northern Suburbs . Centre for Sol-
diers’ Wives and Mothers wore its best
frills at a meeting in the North Sydney
School of Arts last week. The afternoon
being fine, the wives brought along a sturdy
contingent of junior Billjims and Jemimas,
and bribed them heavily to keep quiet. Lady
Helen gave the company a vivid picture of
women’s work in England since munition
making began in earnest. Captain Bailey,
who won promotion in Gallipoli, got peril-
ously near the conscription issue, which
you mustn’t whisper when there’s a sub-
regal visitor. The committee flashed a wire-
less warning, and he merely hinted at des-
perate days when the Anzac-s waited for the
help that didn’t come. Hon. Sec. Mrs.
Joselyne read the report.
This year nearly everyone had forgotten
Bird Day. If we thought of it at all it was
in connection with Sunday and the dinner-
hour. But the school kiddies mean to keep
up the Gould League’s re-union, and on
October 27 the boys will renew their pledge
not to shin up trees after birds’-eggs.
A letter from J. S'. Dane, enclosing a
portrait of Harcourt Beatty :
_ You will no doubt
recognise our old friend
Beatty in spite of his
moustache and Tom-
my’s uniform. He en-
listed very early in
the war in the Artists’
Rifles, being subse-
quently transferred to
the London Rifle Bri-
gade. Harcourt chucked
up a good engagement
on the London stage,
and in spite of his 55
summers has been
through a lot of the
severe fighting in
France. Finally he
was winged in the late
big push on the
Somme, where out of
980 men in liis battalion only 91 are alive to tell
the tale. . He received his wound when charging the
Germans with the bayonet, and for some time it
seemed likely that our old friend “King Charles”
would lose his right arm. At the moment of writing,
however, he is making rapid progress and proudly shows
his sergeant’s stripes, earned by hard work in the
field. He could easily have got a commission, but pre-
ferred to serve with the boys. I thought this photo,
and few particulars would interest you, as Harcourt
Beatty, with Nellie Stewart in “Sweet Nell,” must
be one of the happiest recollections of Australian
theatre-goers, and I am sure they will be pleased to
learn of the actor's silently-heroic endeavors in the
great war.
Jack Dane in the old days was never one
to throw bouquets at mummers, male or
female. It isn’t the stage _ hero who has
moved him to notes of admiration, but the
braw Scottish laddie of 55 who put aside
his grease paint and bucked into the fray
and must have suffered a temporary lapse
of memory with regard to his age to get
there.
Violet, the fair and fluffy daughter of G. A.
Barry, of Bondi, met Harold Morrison (Cre-
morne) in St. Stephen’s the other day.
Masses of flowers decked the old track to the
communion-rail. The bride, in billowy white
tulle, floated up the aisle on father’s arm;
and a quartet of bridesmaids, in champagne-
colored finery, peeped out from under Dutch
caps, girdled with blooms. Then to the Carl-
ton, where something extra in presents had
an apartment to themselves.
The Arts and Crafts show opened in the
forenoon of this week. It’s in the Educa-
tion galleries, Loftus-street.
The Voluntary Workers’ Association gets
about £lOO a month, from the cafe in Moore-
street —profit from the light lunch and tea
trade. The doors close at 5 p.m., and very
weary young patriots creep home to tell the
family what it feels like to say “Chops one”
or “Tea two” for long hours on end. They
found it good business to pay a cook. But
that is the only salary, and it bucks up the
hon. waitresses to know that they won’t find
a novice fainting over raw beefsteak in the
kitchen.
A tartan band skirled when the Munro
Fergusons climbed the Knox hilltop on Belle-
vue the other fine day. The pirates, who
robbed with an enthusiasm seldom excelled
by charity street-collectors, wore frothy-
white frocks, with a dash of green ribbon.
The State Ex. and the eldest daughter
came early. Mrs. A. A. Dangar, in widow’s
crepe, opened her purse widely. Mrs. Jim
Onslow, in diaphanous black with lilies of
the valley stuck in her waist-belt, shepherded
her young daughters in the stalls. Veteran
Tom Dibbs, wearing his years more easily
than most of his juniors, got up
the steep hillside without visible effort.
Justice Ferguson was an easy victim
to the raiders. Jovial Bayley Macarthur
stood behind a megaphone and whis-
pered that for half a crown you could
hear Dora Alexander, the Beit girls, Billy
Beit, hardy annual Monty Steohen and Tony
Street sing and “rag.” A few thrifty souls
crent in for Is. at half-time, and had as
much “rag” as they wanted for one day,
anyhow. The Creswell lady was at the
party, and our Best and Second Best were
quite affable to each other. Proceeds go to
the 4th and 56th comforts.
George Chappie, of the Sydney Harbor
Trust, paid Elvira Grenwell’s cab-fare from
St. Andrew’s the other Saturday. The
’groom’s father, by the way, is that John
Chappie who was a former city treasurer in
Wellington (M.L.). George has enlisted,
and goes into camp after a short honeymoon
on the South Coast.
When the last mail left Ireland, Mrs.
John Hughes was visiting the Shamrock,
and Mrs. Bert Norris, the young widow of
the late Colonel Norris, was with her. She
comes home to Sydney early next year.
Young A.D.C. Boulton goes home to father
(before returning to France) by the Medina.
The first booking by the Sonoma was can-
celled. You may remember Boulton, senior.
He came out, at Lady Dudley’s request, to
organise the Bush Nursing scheme.
In “Tosca” a first-night audience turned
back the leaves of its memory to the lovely
Wayda of the Melba Opera Co. While the
beauteous Cappelli Cavaradossi was putting
a last stroke of paint on his picture, Tosca
de Levers dashed into the church under a
waving dome of feathers. They ought to have
been curly white; but the dust of many
operas had turned them into fiercely-straight
plumes of indeterminate drab. These feathers
menaced the tenor’s top notes, and he nearly
swallowed the tips quite twice. Cappelli,
by the way, is very like the handsome Long-
staff of years ago in this scene. But I don’t
think .John would wear duck-egg green
trousers and riding boots under his velvet
artist’s smock.
Clerical women workers, mostly typists,
fired with a desire to help, send along a
gentle reminder through hon. sec. Elsa
Hale. On August 31 this association was
six months old. In that short time it has
enrolled 600 members, and raised over £3OO
for war funds.
Mrs. Dean Dickey, eldest daughter of the
late E. B. Forrest, of Brisbane, has taken a
second comforter. He’s Isaac R. Allen,
organist of the Glebe Scotchbyterian Kirk.
The lady was frocked in considerable splen-
dor for the event, and most of her trousseau
came from London. Her first husband was
sent about his business by a Judge.
Young Lieut. Vivian Smith, who has been
at the Warren learning how to make 18-
pounders spit six times a minute, is shortly
to go where he can put the knowledge to some
use. In a spare moment, however, he is to
first marry Mena Victoria Parkes. She is
a relative of the Joynton Smiths. He is
one of the “Pearl” Smiths.
Verbrugglien addressed the Cult on Schu-
bert, with remarks in italics re the “Winter
Journey” song cycle. The programme re-
quested Silence between the songs. The con-
tinuity of moods (not to be broken by mun-
dane handclaps) was expressed in song by
Nelson Illingworth.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIR HOME. At the War.
W t
WM
se
V
..v, ;
m »
>««
gg|M
sS&
pw
HR *
tell#
.
//
s?.«f sb?)?j:
m
w.m
iV‘‘4
jr&V
w w^.m?
K
.v 4 /
m& $,• A'
SiP'i'l
‘ I
950Sgtt
wjffidWJfa
C
mmm:
r#'
•&P'j&*£-dF-
«:t■•»(
MS
;vi m:Wf f W'
OZZOZ&,.
fern
\
V
i
ess
SSi
/yy
:
B
Mi
-v
'''//>
Is
\
V i
4
t ./ ./
Sp?
l|P
Mg
8&
X7S^5
•‘yV^
ffil?,
M
m
*
&r
m
y
m
MU
easra ’ n »w«®ess!s
Ssdsiy^w
1 5 .-
rvi
-2 1*
"W
EH
r\
S^/sS*
>-4<
\:';^ivv^/
rNf
t m
/
s£
*JB*
3^
>0
S
®S£
\f\<
*6
oot -Polish.
i
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Knows the job
We have to do.
Chunder, Bear and
Dog address
To their land a
Splendid “Yes!”
“Polish off the
H un!” they say.
“Sh ow him what’
In store to-day!
“Make the good old
Earth we use
“Bright as ‘COBRA'-d
Boots and shoes!”


Send One of Farmer's Chamois
Vests to Your Lad in France
Mail for the Trenches
closes October 30.
When the wind blows with knifelike keenness, when the snow
is thick about the trenches, many a lad will be thankful for one
of Farmer’s Chamois Leather Vests. These Vests are just the
bonniest of cold-resisters, are double over • the chest and
waist, forming a complete cover up to the neck. Wool-lined /
and Oil-tanned, thus warranted to wash and dry out soft. In , ff
addition they are practically vermin-proof, and made in Farmer s W
best style. J
RPSB. Price 27 /<>
RPS 9. With extra-heavy All-Wool lining. Price .... 30/-
We will carefully pack and despatch the Vest to any address at
the Front.
Tailoring Department, First Floor, Market Street.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
m
mm.
THE FOLLY OF TAKING DIGESTIVE
PILLS.
A WARNING TO DYSPEPTICS.
The habit of taking digestive pills after
meals makes chronic dyspeptics of many
thousands of men and women, because arti-
ficial digestants, drugs and medicines have
practically no influence upon the excessively-
acid condition of the stomach contents, which
alone is the cause of most forms of indiges-
tion and dyspepsia. The after-dinner pilL
merely lessens the sensitiveness of the
stomach nerves and thus gives a false sense
of freedom from pain, whereas if those who
are subject to flatulence, heartburn, wind,
etc., were to obtain a little bisurated mag-
nesia from the chemist and take half a tea-
spoonful in a little water after meals, there
would be no necessity for drugs or medicines,
because bisurated magnesia instantly neu-
tralises acidity, stops food fermentation, and
thus ensures normal painless digestion by
enabling the stomach to do its work with-
out hindrance. —Advt.
fghf
gh
fgh
GARDEN HOSE
will give
Years of
Service
in your
Garden.
Its fine Quality,
Great Strength, and freedom
from Kinking and Bursting ensures
satisfaction to every user It's no
dearer than other Hoses-the differ
enceisinTHE EXTRA SERVICE
IT GIVES YOU Made m all
standard sizes in three brands
‘Dunlop," "Oceanic,” and "Federal
LIST ON APPLICATION
Stocked by all Leading Stores,
but ensure satisfaction by look-
ing for the Brand. It Pays!
DUNLOP RUBBER CO ALL STATES & NZ
Wringer
Rgters
Rubbered\
From
*3 eacfi
<r a
A
...THE..
Dunlop Rubber Co. i
make a speciality of this
Repair Work, and guaran-
tee their Roller Rubbers to
give better results than the
original ones.
REPAIRS EXECUTED
WITHOUT DELAY.
*oo*
PRICES RANGE from SI - eg.
AND UPWARDS. ACCORDING TO SIZE
LIST ON APPLICATION.
fgh
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
PERTH
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON
CHRISTCHURCH
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, October 23, 1916.
Mr Dear Yauuie, —
For years now the Caulfield Cup has been
filled with blue sky and sunshine; and Satur-
day came along with the usual ingredients.
Women unfolded to the brightness like butter-
flies and flowers. The polished horses
looked as if they had been sprinkled with
gold-dust after the manner of Titian-haired
ladies who want to make the most of their
beauty. The jockey of Shepherd King, the
Cup winner, was delicately jacketed in pale
lilac and blue, and when his Maj. streaked
home the Gippsland Widdis and Mills
matrons drew together like sisters watching
gold rain into their aprons. The two happy
women were quietly dressed in white cloth
and navy-blue tailorings respectively. The
Widdis-Mills partners certainly have struck
it rich.
Melba, as quietly frocked as a crow, sat in
the background to watch the big race. Son
George, in a bright blue race-coat, acted as
genthelp in attendance. The Mount Gambier
Clarke girls were in all their glory. Roma,
under a petunia parasol, wore a putty-colored
frock, a tulle scarf, speckled-fawn crocodile-
skin shoes and a hat wreathed with wax
fruit. Nesta, who is just back from Hono-
lulu, slioAved she had picked up some ideas
from the native dress. Her black frock \vas
circled with white streaks and tipped with
white satin, and she wore a large-striped
silk waist-cloth wound round her hips and a
helltopper on her head. Lesley Madden
floated about with tulle wing-frills to her
mouse-colored dress and hat. Mrs. Buchanan
could scarcely get her grey-glace flared skirts
through the birdcage gates. While she
struggled, I saw fuchsia-colored chiffons on
her hat. Mrs. Tye set off her pale gold hair
Avith a Avhite summery dress, and Mrs. Con-
nolly, Avith a duck of a yellow muslin collar
on her naA’y-blue frock, deplored the failure
of Torbane. Even the yelloAV collar couldn’t
console her. Mrs. Leslie Stuart, in lovely
green jade earrings, wept all over the stand
because Amata was just beaten. She would
have dropped £lOO into her gold-net purse if
Amata had hurried up. Dr. Syme Avas there
wearing his very round spectacles and his
A ery Avise look. Dr. DaA 7 enport wore a fawn
race-coat that could only be described in a
sonnet. Jack Dunlop’s bride looked a dream
in a souffle of filmy dark blue and pale lace.
L. K. S. Mackinnon and his women-folk
walked proudly round his cage after Tinkling
had won the GAvyn Nursery.
There were some queer frocks abroad,
mostly on mannequins from the big chiffon
stores. One girl AA r ore her skirts knee-high
and several yards round, with a cartwheel
hat to keep rain off the distant hem. Another
got into Avliite chiffon weighted Avitli black
A-elvet. Her patent-leathers laced to her
knees and slioAved to the highest tassel. Yet
another dress-parader wore black stencilling
on pale grey, and her parade-companion took
up several square yards with a tartan crino-
line.
Melba listened to the applicants for her
Scholarship at the Conservatorium last
Thursday. She sat in judgment in the upper
room Avhile the competitors huddled down-
stairs and waited their separate calls in fear
and trembling. The High Court of Music was
manned by a select feAV. Secretary Lucy
Rowe guarded the table at the doorway;
Fritz Hart hovered restlessly; Elvins stolidly
took on the accompaniments, and three Con-
servatorium teachers sat in a toav and marked
off points. Melba’s pretty daughter-in-law
perched an arched instep on a Avooden form,
and she and Mrs. John Sanderson kept quiet
as mice in a corner. Son George, muffled
to the eyes in a sapphire-blue overcoat, tip-
toed in for the finals and sat Avith the spec-
tators. Chief Justice Melba sat at a judicial
table in the centre of the room. Her Honor
wore, instead of a Avig, a huge black hat
which could tip to starboard or port and act
as a face screen. The poor, trembling song-
birds perched one after another on the
platform, and turned their eyes anxiously
on Melba. But that great personage
appeared to be taking no notice Avhat-
eA'er of their anxious trills and high
notes, and the tantalising hat Avould always
hide her thoughtful face. Suddenly a
note or a phrase Avould rouse her. She
would temporarily depose the accompa-
nist and strike ringing chords for the candi-
date to copy, smiling up in a big sisterly
way and saying, “You’re not nervous, are
you?” Then the poor young thing on trial
would take heart again and smile back.
Some had brought their man-teachers as
accompanists. These proud male crea-
tures sat nervously on one side Avhen Melba
took their place. The autocrat does not
disguise her disapproval of the mere man
who presumes to teach girl singers. There
were Brisbaneites and girls from. Westralia
amongst the flock. The Adelaide winner
(she was a quiet, ginger-haired girl in a
ginger-colored dress) said proudly that
there Avere only three from her city and all
of them were included in the final 20. Melba,
C.J., had a hard day’s work, but she says
she “adores” to help Australian singers, so
1 don’t suppose she grudged it.
The Melba Scholarship was generously ex-
tended to two, the first girl to get two years
tuition free and the second one year. Miss
Leech romped home first and Miss Muir
scored second honors. The winner is a
ginger-haired, vigorous singer from Adelaide,
whose voice ranges about in three octaves.
Melba takes exception to its previous train-
ing, for which a clever Adelaide man-teacher
is responsible. Melba’s own theory is that
no man, however talented and conscientious,
can teach a woman to sing, and she supports
her opinion with physiological and psycho-
logical facts. Melba’s idea is that this
unusual girl, who has been trained as a con-
tralto, is nearly as much soprano. Her
voice runs up and down and all ways with-
out colliding with the traffic.
The second girl, Natalie Muir, is from
Nathalia, in the Goulburn Valley. She is
one of a family of nine, all of whom can
sing. Seven of the family group are girls,
and Dad, who has a general store iu
Nathalia, has had a busy time buying them a
musical education. Natalie travelled from
her home town to Melbourne once every week
for a lesson from Mrs. Gregor Wood. She
sings with great delicacy and scored her
scholarship on the highest soprano extract
from “Butterfly.” One of her sisters toured
for a while with Melba’s opera company in
Australia as part of the chorus. All Nathalia
will turn out to cheer their popular candi-
date. They will show Bendigo that there are
other towns on the map. Natalie has tem-
perament and rather fragile beauty, which
“shows up” well on the stage.
Melba, busy testing singers for her scholar-
ship, lamented at the mouthfuls of artificial
teeth exhibited by the girls. She would have
dentists gaoled or shot at daybreak for pull-
ing out the natural molars, and puts the
poser: “Ilow can a girl sing with an un-
natural mouth?” While denouncing the teeth-
robbers she also blames the girls for allow-
ing their teeth to decay past the patching
stage. “I’ve had mine seen to ever since I
had ’em,” she says. “I haven’t lost a tooth
out of my head, and never will till I die!”
And Melba exhibits her treasures in an ivory
smile.
When W. M. Hughes arrived at Spencer-
street station on liis way to the great Ben-
digo speech-making, he was merely a quiet
little figure among the hurrying passengers,
and no one took any notice of him, and he
seemed happy. Suddenly an official in khaki
streaked through the crowd waving two
bundles of papers. Hughes took them
and fidgeted, and the nearest travellers
grew excited. Then a chauffeur rushed
theatrically with a despatch-case amid grati-
fied murmurs from the onlookers. Finally
as the train steamed out, another khaki
man chased the train with a handful of
documents, flung them on board and fell
back limply, mopping his brow. The people
oii the platform and at the windows showed
a disposition to cheer. At all the stations
along the line the Prime Minister sat behind
closed windows, and curious promenaders
could just see a very busy hand writing,
writing. But they couldn’t even tell if it
was the hand of Hughes or that of his
secretary. If it was Hughes’s hand they
wouldn’t have been able to tell what he
was writing, either. William would get the
bottom place for copy-books in any class.
Our Little Billee has his quiet hours even
in these times. I saw him the other night
strolling along Kew’s main 'street with his
wife, like a good suburbanite. As he only
weights seven stone, any prowling beer
brigand could have picked the little chap up
and carried him off into the fastnesses of
Studley Park. How much beer could a man
buy with the ransom of a Prime Minister?
Little Adelaide’s contribution :
Her Ex. has flitted to Sydney for a week, part
of her programme being the annual meeting of the
Australian Red Cross Society. Before leaving she
unveiled two new pictures at the Art Gallery. One
was “The Wide Marshes,” by Arnesby Brown; the
other was “Villeneuve Les Avignons,” by 11. Hughes
Stanton.
What Lady Galway called an Irish Rose Show
(because there were fewer roses than anything else)
occurred at the Town Hall on Thursday. Some
unpleasant and belated frosts have been disastrous
to gardeners, but the exhibition was a good one,
considering the handicap.
Another South Australian girl has had her good
work in the war recognised. She is Ethel Davidson,
and she belongs to Penola, in the South-East. The
Royal Red Cross now adorns her pinny. She was
attached for some time to the Ist Australian General
Hospital, and lately has been nursing at a British
“stationary* 1 near the French Front.
Private Donald Kerr, who left here with the
A.M.C. at the end of last year, has got his military
medal. He has also accumulated personal and posi-
tive proof of the Hun’s habit of firing on the Red
Cross. Whila out dressing wounded, Donald came
upon a number cut off from the main body. Hurry-
ing back he got together stretcher-parties, and while
these were carrying the wounded in the enemy
opened fire. One of the party was killed and a
good many, among them lverr himself, were
wounded. . It
The old Vine Inn at Glen Osmond is to go. «
was built in ’5O, and was a stopping place for the
coach in the days before the Hills railway. Undei
local option it lost its license, and it has now been
bought by Lewis, M.L.C., whose property it adjoins,
and who means to pull it down.
The Morea included in its outward-bound passen-
gers Mrs. Fotheringham, who wants to get as near
as she can to three sons who are fighting in France.
Dr. Evelyn O’Leary, who, sick and tired ot the
red-tape of the Australian Defence Department, went
to England for a job, lias been placed in command
of a Red Cross unit for service in Roumama. One
of his brothers, Gen. T. E. O’Leary, is in France,
and another, Fleet-Surgeon E. A. E. O’Leary, is in
—well, never mind.
Still they come. This time it was a curio exhibi-
tion and sale of leather work, arranged by Mrs.
Charles Todd and held at her house in Victoria
Square. The cash rolled to the Mayoress s Red
Cross Sewing Circle and the Lady Victoria Buxton
Girls’ Club. That was on Friday. On Saturday we
had a fair at Austral Gardens with the funds of
Minda as its kindly object.
The Navy League netted nearly £lBOO on Friday
—-£1268 from the street collection and £490 from
the “market” on the plantation near the Government
House gates.
The next big rally on the list is the Child At el-
fare Exhibition, which is intended to rub into the
public the need for paying a little more attention
to the protection of the future citizen.
Doris Leech, who at 21 has gained Melba’s first
Conservatorium of Music Scholarship, had already a
good many successes to her credit, having taken tw o
firsts and a second at the Ballarat competitions in
1911, and being now in her third year for the
Music degree at the Adelaide Conservatorium,
where Frederick Bevan is her teacher. She has
also studied elocution under Mrs. Edward Reeves.
The war is having its effect upon the local Society
of Arts, whose latest report notices a drop in the
membership from 284 to 175. It also observes with
a glare in its eye that the attendance of the public
at the winter exhibition was small, despite no
charge for admission, and that disappointingly few
sales resulted.
Marie Murray, one of the Geelong smart-
setters, daughter of the W. H. Murrays, of
Drumcondra, has said “Yes” to Vivian Lowe,
of the A.1.F., who also hails from Geewhiz
—no, Geelong.
Katie Hay, one of the Riverina family, is
now Mrs. Harry Harris, the transformation
being done at Scots’ Church last week. The
newlyweds, who are to live in Calcutta,
sailed away a few days after the wedding.
Brigadier-General Victor Sellheim arrived
back in Melbourne after a busy two years
abroad, to resume the job of adjutant-general
at headquarters. The soldier-chief has grown
grey since he left. After doing organising
work in Egypt and transporting troops from
Gallipoli to France, Sellheim was in com-
mand of the Intermediate Base in England,
with a staff of 1100. Now he has come back
to look after the reinforcements in Australia.
Before he left London, King George com-
manded him to Court and pinned on a decora-
tion.
Mrs. Pat Osborne (the dimpled Ruby
Madden of days gone by) makes a hobby of
entertaining Australian V.C.’s at her place at
Knightsbridge, London. Lieut. Jacka was a
recent visitor. He is returning to Australia
soon.
The two Fairbairn lads, Osborne and Jim,
of Banongil, are respectively captain and
lieutenant in the Flying Corps. Long ago
Osborne was nearly cracked up for good as
the result of a smash ; but he is now recover-
ing, after the best part of a year on the
invalid list. Jim is still riding the whirl-
wind and playing fast and loose with the
storm —which is much more exciting than
sitting on an oil-drum sorting out sheep in
a cloud of dust.
Toorak pastoralist Campbell is hit hard by
the war, his two soldier sons having fallen
within four weeks of each, other. They were
fine, brave fellows —Lieut. Donald, an Anzac
who fought at Sari Bair as a private; and
Lieut. Walter, who held an English com-
mission and Avon the Military Cross for re-
peated acts of bravery.
Norman Brookes has laid aside the Red
Cross khaki of an lion, lieut.-colonel and
resumed civilian tweeds, and with Mrs.
Norman is steaming back to Australia and
the three little Brookeses. They are shelter-
ing in splendor with the Emmerton grand-
parents during their grass-orphanage.
Rupert Clarke writes from Salonika that
he is being invalided home after an attack
of fever. His friends felt all along that,
howei’er great his patriotism and enthu-
siasm, a 55-year-old bart., whose life had
not been devoted exclusively to gardening
and choir-singing, would not long resist the
rigors of campaigning.
Cliff Ross, a Sydneysider who used to
haunt Melbourne Block, has jumped to the
rank of captain and been made a flight-
commander in the R.F.C.
The widow of rich old squatter Horsfall
has sold the Toorak house and is now
settled for six months or so in one of the
new flats at Lister House, in Collins-street.
A cable from London tells Mrs. John
Sanderson that her mother has 'been seri-
ously ill, so the handsome matron is packing
up for the voyage.
Mary Campbell, a dimpled miss of 19.
has trekked down from N. S. A\ a l e ® to u>e 9
Auntie Alec Landale company for the gayer
end of the Spring social season. Aunt and
niece are just now busy at the lown Hal
packing presents into boxes for good old
Billjim. But the best present ot all will be
the right vote in the ballot-box on Octobei
28.
The Hyams—sweet Sally and her sistei
gave a big dance at the St. Ivilda lown
Hall on the night of Caulfield Cup, the ticket
money going to patriotic funds. Onlookei s
and dancers were also asked to bring gifts
for auctioning in aid of the Red C ross, and
the response was splendid two pairs ot
socks, one Balaclava helmet, and a whole,
unopened tin of sardines. The men were
mostly in khaki; those who weren’t were
chiefly unhappy-looking weeds in badly-fit-
ting evening dress. One poor youth wore
a coat that could have gone round him
twice. There was some fancy : dress, too.
One fat boy perspired freely in a woman
cook’s dress, with starched cap and apron;
and another lad of jockey-size wore a
girlish shirt-blouse of chick-egg blue, open
at the neck and trimmed on the elbow
sleeves with fur. Two very slim St. Ivilda
girls swaggered about as cowboys, while
chaperons sat round the room on the
cushioned seats and remarked. ponderously
that they scarcely approved of it, you know.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


-
WLtsmsK
> ' v\. -
'••• ■ .5. . ■■ '
i®
?
■
till
BATSONS
rl
-
: ■■* ■
r * ;
Hg
«**
•• c:-
ill
Ve,u
Fine
: .
m
.
sjeß
.*v;
* Quality Guacant
Tjfahsm-Jtr
ggrys
'■ESS
Si
H
'" r ' or scotlWß
-- h:^
■
M 4
mmm
ifeSfeK
M
■
/v-M,
a
■ 1
IfS
a? t
* >£*•& .*§
flips A
as-.
&:-... -;s
i
mm
m
S*
i
S ..sc- ■ v ■■ : : -: : ■ ■ .
• •
SP
- • —»
On Which The


s
m
mlam
S, '.c
* »*mm>
The Company’s
Mail Steamers
leave Sydney
every alternate
Saturday.
TRIPS TO THE
SPECIAL HOLIDAY RLIURN TICKETS TO CEYLON are now issued at the following:
rates:— From SYDNEY .. .. Ist £46, 2nd £32, available for 75 days
I rom MELBOURNE .. Ist £42, 2nd £3O, available for 72 davs
Prom ADELAIDE .. .. Ist £33, 2nd £2B, available for 70 days
From Premantle .. .. Ist £32, 2nd £26, available for 60 days
P’or those who have longer time at their disposal some delightful tours can be arranged For
example, Sydney to Colombo via Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, thence to Singapore by P & o
and return to Sydney via Torres Straits, by Rums, Philp or Royal Packet Companv, calling at Java’
Darwin, Thursday Island, Brisbane, etc. Fare, Ist Saloon, £B2. Tel. Citv 6321. ’
For further particulars apply A. GORDON WESCIIE, Superintendent in Australia, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney-.
King George IV
WHISKY
fg
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ARORIGIN-
ALITIES
V\ aif ’: A word about the keawe, or
algarroba tree. Algarroba is Spanish for carob
(Ceiatoma siliqua ), the big', shady, evergreen tree
that bears the “locust bean” of our chidden child-
hood. If you don’t know the “locust bean” I weep for
you. It is good for all kinds of beasts. Here in Majorca
(off Spain) the trees g'row in any old stony soil, on
hill or plain, in a climate like average Australian,
and produce heavily the large bean which makes
best of fodder for horses and cattle, but is not a
good milk producer. The pod, when ripe, is like
brown papier-mache, very sweet and • nutritious.
The splendid mules of Spain live on it and do
prodigies of labor. It is much used in England, too,
for making cattle foods. Here it is merely broken
up by hand. Trees that are centuries old still need
no care. They grow mostly in company with olive
trees, but are less addicted to high altitudes. Ever-
green oaks are grown for pig food, and these three
olive, oak and carob—should all be extensively
introduced to Australia. Three of the greatest sources
of wealth here are olive oil, pigs and algarrobas.
And with carobs you should breed mules, which we
here both use and export with great success.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
"If'e started knockin' yer about two hours ago, w'y didn't yer git the Johns to 'im
then ?”
"Well, I teas winnin ’ up ter five minutes ago."
“Mallabob”: “Merrigal” (B, 3/8/’l6)
better not come Brunette (N.T.) way to put a
spoke in regarding drovers. Someone has been pull-
ing his leg; no mob of 4000 head ever left Brunette.
As for camping at Rankin, it's a grassless dust
heap. Also, a stretch of 70 miles without water is
nothing out this way. The Farquharson brothers’
outfit has just left Top Springs for Anthony’s Lagoon,
a little over 80 miles, with over 4000 head, and
there are 40-, 50- and 60-mile dry stages still in
front. If “Merrigal” had mentioned drovers like
Dick Laffin, Whelan, Perry (enlisted),. Rose, McLean,
Larkins, Tommy Campbell (half-caste) and George
Hooper we’d have suspected him of knowing some-
thing about the profession.
* * * *
“G.8.D.”: Homing instinct in dogs?
tVhen Charlie Castaway had finished his apprentice-
ship in the Manning River Turns Office, he went to
Sydney to try his luck, taking with him a favorite
greyhound slut. Castaway lodged at a small hotel
in Druitt-street run by Mrs. Wootton, the mother of
“Dick.” The young man got a job in Hay (N.S.W.)
and his dog accompanied him west. But after they
reached the township the dog lost the run of tiie
boss and evidently reckoned he’d gone back; and a
few days later a very tired greyhound trotted into
the little nub in Druitt-street. The pads of its feet
were badly frayed after the 460-mile run back from
Hay.
* * * *
“Wart” : “Bad Australian” (B. 21/9/’IG),
who applied for the record altitude for a platypus,
can have this information. Where the Lake River
leaves Woods Lake, on the Western Tiers (Tas.), I
saw half a dozen of the family. The locality
hunches itself heavenward about 5000 ft., and there
is very little fresh water to be found in Australia
at any greater height. There is any quantity of
food, although 1 don’t think that, as “Bad Aus-
tralian” suggests, the platypus is much of a fisher-
man. He lives mostfy on worms and insects except
during Lent. Now, having got the altitude of
plat, s wanderings, what about proximity to civilisa-
tion ? I have seen a specimen in a suburb of
Launceston (Tas.) on the North Esk, and that is so
near to a municipal council that civilisation is just
round the next corner.
* * * *
“M.M. ’: A little while back a bullock-
driver at Isisford (Q.) turned his crew out; and nine
days later lie died. The night of the burial the
team wandered in, tore up the tarpaulin over the
waggon, ploughed up the ground about it and bel-
lowed dismally, and kept it up for two nights.
Whaffor ?
* * * *
AV andi’ : A pretty little creature is the
squatter pigeon, but, being a table delicacy only
equalled by the brush bronzewing, it gets no quarter
from the pot-hunter. Unfortunately it is one of the
tamest of bush birds. It associates in pairs and small
companies of half a dozen or so. When hushed the
flock separate, making off in different directions.
After running a little way each bird squats down in
the short grass, depending for protection on the
haimony of its light-brown color with the immediate
landscape. At the last moment it rises with a
startling burr from under one’s nose. Along the
main roads, where it often feeds, and in proximity to
which it crouches when disturbed, teamsters occa-
sionally upset the little creature’s calculations with
a swipe of the bullock-whip.
AN ORDEAL.
TRADESMAN ( interrupting ): “Is that chime 'ard to play?”
THE INSTRUMENTALIST: “No. Why?"
T RADESMAN: “ ’Cause it’s blanky ’ard to listen to.”
J.C.W.” ; Bill was reading the war news
in the bar. “I see them ‘tanks’ is doing wonnerful
work,” he says. “Hoo ray!” chips in the
bloke with the beetles. “That’ll give the wowsers
something to go on with, thankgord.”
* * * *
The New York Zoo is said to
be the largest in the world ; but its ignorance
seems to be on the same scale. I was roaming
round when I happened to look across to the bird
cages and saw an Australian magpie. I almost ran
across to have a chat with my fellow-Australian,
but had to curse the great U.S.A. on reading his
American business-card: “Australian Black and
White Crow, State of West Australia, Sydney, Aus-
tialia. I condoled with good old Mag, and passed
on to the wallaby, which had been classified as
“the female kangaroo.” Any good sending President
Wilson a Note about it?
* * * *
“Hay”: Before the white man came
among them, Binghi of Centralia was, to use his
own expression, “numberless as the hills.” But
Black Brother is not at all reliable where numbers
are concerned. He can get up to five; but after
that everything becomes “wabba wabba,” which
means uncountable. Binghi is just as aggravating
with regard to quantity. He. will describe a supply
of water in such glowing terms that one would
expect to find nothing less than a vast inland lake,
and then he will lead the way triumphantly to a
pool containing just about enough refreshment for a
thirsty horse.
“Gazeeka”: The argument in the Bush-
man’s Rest, with regard to the size of some of the
logs burnt in the early days came to an end when
old Tom Keogh orated. “In ’60,” he said, “I mind
a log me ould father, meself and me six brothers
brought in. It burrnt for free mont's, and at the
ind of those free mont's a cuckoo flew out of the
hole at the ind.”
“Lowan”: It’s untrue that crows are
not found in mina and magpie localities. Here
(Manangatang, Vic.) crows and minas fly about in
regiments, and they are always fighting. Nearly
every day I witness conflicts, out of which the crow
invariably comes second-best. I have never yet seen
the crow attack, and, generally, he has as much as
he can manage to defend himself. When the magpie
comes at him Jim Crow’s yells for help are ear-
splitting.
“Vincent T.” : The letter that Mrs.
Wi refence sent to her neighbor Mr. Bluegum by
little Willy:—
Dear Mr. Bluegum,—Tell Mr. Brown that this
rooster is no good and will never be. I bought
specially to g-et a rooster. His wing and one leg
are broken and he takes fits. Surely you won’t
charge me 12s. 6d ? The hens are only common
fowl, and two of them old. I don’t think they will
egg very much. If you can get me a good rooster
instead of this cove, I would not mind the price,
but this is a broken-down swell. As soon as I put
him into the yard he started taking fits, so the
hens gave him a hiding. You can come and have a
look at him. —Your struly, Mary Wjrefence.
“A. B. White” : I want to know the reason
of the Australian bushman’s depraved ideas regarding
the treatment 'of various animal ailments. “Pick”
(B. 31 /8/’ 16) advises for the eradication of mange
on horses or dogs daily baths of urine! Some other
alleged “cures” are cowdung poultices for various
inflammatory and suppurating conditions. Then there
is the application of a “green” sheepskin over the
loins of horses for supposed injuries to the back, or for
“kidney trouble.” This is not reckoned to get in
its best work until decomposition of the sheepskin
sets in, and if it becomes flyblown all the better.
Powdered glass blown into the eye for local diseases
is more fool’s advice. So is the local application
of raw onion to induce a horse (or mare) to void
urine when in nine cases out of 10 the animal cannot
do so owing to some anatomical or physiological
abnormality. In 99 cases out of 10'0 the painful
condition which is generally termed “colic” does
not arise from the urinary apparatus at all. I men-
tion the above four quackeries for the reason that in
each ease they invariably aggravate instead of alle-
viate the primary complaint.
“J.0.A.” ; “Nil” is wide of the mark when
he says that “sool” is a contraction of “sss—hold
him.” The term had its origin in an attack made
by a London crowd on one Captain Sewel, or Sewell,
as the result of which the latter was killed. Hence
to “sewel” anybody or anything on became an ex-
pression meaning to incite to attack as the mob
attacked Sewel. Later, tlie_ meaning became to
incite to attack, not necessarily with the idea of
killing, just as “to stiffen” may mean to punish
severely as well as to kill. A change took place in
the spelling of the word also. The word is there-
fore not Australian slang,' but was in use in London
long before Cook touched our coasts.
(Continued on page 24.1
THE BEDTIME HOUSEKEEPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yly wife s had the cheek to leave home for a week,
And I’m running the household solus;
All the rules of the game as laid down by my dame
I am swallowing holus-bolus ;
Though I’m getting an fait with the work in the day,
It s the shutting-up time drives me sillv—
-1 ve to turn out the cat, and then bring in the mat,
And be sure that I’ve put out the billy..
There are more items yet, and in case I forget—
lor I’m nothing if not conscientious—
These things I repeat to myself in the street,
People grin at my manner pretentious;
Some think I’m a pro., and do it for show,
And others imagine I’m dilly,
As I mutter, “The cat and the mat I've got pat,
then it s wind up the clock, the front-door double-
lock,
And be sure that I’ve put out the billy!”
Ida letter to-day from the missus to say
Pad dreams she is suffering nightly
That the home has been sacked! Is the house still
intact ?
Am I careful to shut it up tightly?
And her post, cript's a list which she hopes will
assist—
-1 can heai' her voice echoing shrilly:
"First (he cat, then the mat; chop the wood (forgot
that!),
Cover birdie, the pet; see the mousetrap is set;
Then wind up the clock; the front-door double-lock;
Are the windows clasped tight? Turn the meter off
right;
And be sure that you’ve put out the billy!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


MISS GWEN LEWIS
The Clever Singing Comedienne of The Royal Strollers,
adopts A WISE PRECAUTION against
Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis
and Kindred Ailments.
Palace Theatre,
Sydney,
22nd September, 191 G.
Mr. G. W. KEAN,
Chemist,
Hean’s Essence Proprietary.
Dear Sir, —Before leaving Sydney
I would like to add my praise to
those of many others of the wonder-
ful healing properties of HEAN’S
ESSENCE. During this changeable
weather, when colds, etc., are so fre-
quent and there is danger of losing
one’s voice, which, in my profession,
is such an anxiety, I am never with-
out a bottle by me.
Wishing you continued success,
Yours very truly,
GWEN LEWIS
(Royal Strollers).
To never be without a bottle of Mean’s Essence
is a precaution which everyone should take.
“Nip a cold, influenza or bronchitis in the bud
by taking- this fine remedy and all risk of ill
after-effects will be dispelled. If Hean’s Essence
is used when the first symptoms of an attack are
felt the probabilities are all cause for anxiety
will be gone within 24 hours.
mm
Miss GWEN LEWIS.
IN CASES OF LONG-STANDING CHEST OR THIiOAT TROUBLE
Hean’s Essence is wonderfully effective, as is testified to by thousands of users.
For whooping-cough, croup, measles-cough and sore, inflamed throats money cannot buy a
better medicine, despite the fact that its cost is only about one-sixth that of ordinary mixtures.
For example, each bottle, when diluted with water and sweetened ,in accordance with easy
directions printed on the label, produces a. pint of superior quality medicine.
A pint of ready-made Cough Mixture would cost at least 12/-
HEAN’S ESSENCE costs only 2/- (by post, 2/3), and is obtainable
from leading Chemists and Stores, or from
G. W. HEAN , Mal7B Castiereagh Street, Sydney
SNE PINT
For the convenience of travellers and others, HEAN'S COUGH
DIAMONDS, medicated with HEAN’S ESSENCE, are now being made.
Their price is 9d. per box.
wm
i
%
m
m
I
■
'■ V'
■
:
BREAD
HI
1 s
aK
TTF I-VT
LI JiAl
a
“Nothing” Suits, “Tussora” Shirts and
Panama Hats -at The LEVIATHAN.
“Nothing” Suits are cool as Ocean Breezes. They are so light in weight as
to give you the feeling of having nothing on. “Nothing” Suits are skilfully tailored
in the style shown, from strongly-woven Egyptian Cotton Tussorcttes, which do
not shrink, but rather improve, with washing ancl
ironing. They can be had in plain or white striped
designs in Biscuit, Straw and Stone shades. Wear
a “Nothing” Suit and enjoy Summer comfort.
“Nothing” Suits
(3 garments)
Coat & Trousers
(2 garments)
Trousers only
(Suits measuring
Made to
Ready-to-wear, measure.
27/6 37/6
25/- 35/-
9/6 11/6
Ch'est, 2/0
over 42-inch
extra.)
Write for Free Patterns of
“Nothing ’ Suitings and
“ Tussora ” Shirtings.
“TUSSORA” SHIRTS. —Let us make you some
“Tussora” Shirts to wear with the “Nothing” Suit.
“Tussora” looks just like Tuksore Silk but it
wears better by far, and retains its silky lustre
after repeated washing.
Can be had with unshrinkable neck-bands, and
soft double cuffs, or plain wrist-bands to button.
You have your choice of three collar styles
Detachable Tennis; Detachable Double; or
Attached Tennis Collar. Shirts have “split” sleeves
and sleeve-length adjusters. Ctl-i-t
(With Collar to match). 0/1 I
PANAMA HATS. —We have a large and
carefully-selected stock of these cool Summer .Hats
in various shapes—with narrow and wide brims.
State size and width of brim when ordering.
JAPANESE PANAMAS. —Extra light weight,
24-inch brims. 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
WHITE BLEACHED TOYO PANAMAS—
-15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
REAL NATIVE PANAMAS. —Made in South
America, can be folded without crushing—
-25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 33/-
, *
I
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
10-INCH
DOUBLE=SIDED
from
3-each
BRITISH-MADE
rColumbia^
yj Records jy
12=INCH
DOUBLE=SIDED
from
5-each
COLUMBIA “No. 22” SUPPLEMENT.
X229—-My Son
PURPLE LABEL SERIES.
10-inch Single-sided. Price ss.
Madame Clara Butt, Contralto.
LIGHT-BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Double-sided. Price Os. each.
Lloi3
S Sunset on the Veldt, from “African Suite” ’Cello Solo. By W. H. Squire
l Canadian Boat Song *>
LlOl3
\ Mozart quartette, 14. (a) Allegro London String Quartet.
I „ „ „ (1>) Andante ~ » »
SPECIAL
12-inch
“STAR” LIGHT BLUE
Double-sided. Price ss. each.
1j1045
I “TOTO”: I Take after Father Mabel Russell and Chorus
) A Broken Doll” Mabel Russell, Comedienne
1,1046
t Harry Tate’s “Steamer Scene,” from “Joyland,” Part 1 Harry Tate & Company.
I „ „ „ „ Part 2
10-inch Double-sided. Price 3s. each.
1)1343
f “TOTO” Selection. „ .
•j Part 1 London Theatre Orchestra. (Conducted by Merlin Morgan).
[ Part 2 » »
Introducing: Part I—Opening Chorus, Act 2. Flirtation
Fox-Trot; Waltz Duet. Part 2—We Positively Won’t
Girls; Samples; I Want to Lean on You; I’d Like a
Caf6 Dance.
; I Take After Father;
Go Home; Garden of
Little Girl Like You;
m 314
s “TOTO”
l “TOTO”
: Hearts That Were Aching Duet: Enid Sass & Peter Gawthorne.
: Garden of Girls Peter Gawthorne & Chorus.'
DARK-BLUE LABEL SERIES.
12-inch Double-sided. Price ss. each.
607
[ “JVENFANT PRODIGUE”:
•j (1) Overture Piano and Orchestra.
[ (2) —Madrigale .. „ „ »
(Mr. Hamilton Harty at the Piano).
» 9\ » V
608
(3) —Entr’acte, Act. 2. (4) —The Sleeping Plirynette.
(5) —Prayer. (6) —Marche Militaire.
Piano and Orchestra. (Mr. Hamilton Harty at the Piano.)
609
(7) —Valse from Act a ~ >, »
(g)—The Letter. (9) —Phrynette Valse.
Plano and Orchestra. Piano Solos. By Hamilton Harty.
610
“The Meistersinger” Selection. Part 1.
„ „ Part 2.
Regimental Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards.
Introducing: Part 1— Prelude. Part 2. —Dance of the Apprentices; Prize Song,
Finale, Overture. _
611
( The Lifeboat. Part 1 .. Descriptive. With Orchestra and Dramatic Company.
| „ ~ Part 2.. „ . „ _ ... ..
A remarkable record of descriptive music and effects with dramatic dialogue.
10-inch Double-sided. Price 3s. each.
2674
(A BROKEN DOLL Jacob’s Trocaderians.
(If You Were tlie Only Girl in the World „ ~
2675
(’Twas in September, from “Mr. Manhattan” Jacob’s Trocaderians.
I The Languid Melody, from “The Bing Bovs are Here”
2676
| A Perfect Day The "Taylor Trio. (Violin,’’Cello and Piano.)
( I Hear You Calling Me ~ ~ ~ ~ „ „ „
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Dinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —W’ebley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


-
GGITTS
lIMSEEDOiLMEAI
m
t *‘ACTU&V >
AVEGGITT L T . D
PARRAMATTA
FARMERS!
Feed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS,
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
I Meggitt Ltd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
“The connoisseur is one who knows. The dilet-
tante is one who thinks he knows.” Try Martell’s
and you’ll become a connoisseur ; you will know then
what the best is ; and will know you know. When
it comes to ordering brandy again', you will specify
MARTELL’S BRANDY,
and thus enjoy the luxury of flavor, the mental and
physical tonic, that Martell’s ensures. Never travel
without some Martell’s. It is
THE BRANDY OF UNEEATEN QUALITY. [2
PELACO
A
m
COLLARS
are made to sit on your shirt as if they
belong to it. They are all hand-cut, which
is the only way to cut them with exactness-
There is no such thing as a badly-dut
COLLAR.
Every one is guaranteed.
Four-fold, 6d. Linen-faced, 9d.
Superfine Linen-faced, I/- Made in Australia
All Mercers
PELACO
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
CHRISTIE^
<SP£CMUo£
TWO
L /NES
SK#
. kiP
'0
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Lc /iCWTER 3 T NEWCASTLE
m
ns
■
: &
“NO FEAR!”
SQUATTER (in Sydney, meeting his blackboy strolling along the street ): “What are you
doing out here? You’ll be getting lost.”
JACKY (pointing to tram line): “No, Boss! Me track um this pheller.”
“Vagabond”: May I loose off a few
belated rounds in this revolver versus automatic-
pistol discussion ? I’ve had a fairly-extensive experi-
ence of each, and here’s my verdict. For the house-
holder who can keep his gun in a nice clean drawer,
wipe over with suitable oil at intervals, and generally
treat as a delicate instrument, I recommed the auto,
every time. It shoots straighter in the hands of an
inexperienced gun-man, and rarely (under conditions
described) goes wrong. But for active service, for
an outback trip, for packing around daily in a holster
or pocket, I put all my money and (what I value a
heap more) my life on the six-gun. I’ve tried several
best-brand autos, under roughing-it conditions, and
have not found one absolutely reliable.
Lubricating with the wrong kind of oil
makes the recoil action stiff; the cart-
ridges fit the chamber so closely that a
grain of sand cracks the cartridge brass,
with the result in either case that the
empty shell doesifft eject properly and
jambs, a full cartridge is pushed in hard
against it, and the only cure is to fum-
blingly pull open the breech and poke and
pull out the jamb—an operation not usually
permissible under circs, which bring a
shooter into action. “Moana,” rightly, I
think, makes his prime argument in favor
of the auto. (B. 8/6/T6) the advantage of
quick reloading with the full clips. But
I can hardly imagine the conditions under
which “Moana” or anyone else has to belt
off a continuous “24 aimed shots.” A
Tommy in the trenches does that with a
rifle in repelling a counter-attack, say, but
his pistol-armed officer in the same scrap is
quite busy giving his men ranges, directing
fire, etc. If he whnts to do any prolonged
rapid-fire shooting there’s usually plenty
spare rifles, and they are much more use-
ful. He would his own shooter for
last-minute, close-quarter work and for
emergencies—say a Hun bayonet within
poking distance. The six-shooter’s full
complement is generally enough to see these
last-minute arguments through to a finish,
and in the whisky-poker-and-pistol instance
that “Moana” mentions two rounds, apiece
are likely to be the fullest hand dealt. Even
in that polite circle of society where pistols
constitute the best kind of full flush they are usually
in a pocket or holster; and in a quick-draw-and-shoot
game I’ve never seen the auto, gun-man to come
within seconds of the six-shootist. The balance,
shape and hang of the “six” give it a huge pull for
quick work “on the draw.” The greatest advantage
of the revolver for life-and-death dust-ups is that it
never jambs, and if one cartridge misfires a pull on
the trigger snaps off the next round with less than a
second’s delay. The auto, advantage of quick
clip-reloading is almost levelled now by a clip carry-
ing six revolver cartridges which can be loaded in
about as quickly as the auto.’s clip. I took an auto,
to the trenches when I first came out, because in 1914
service revolvers couldn’t be had for love or money.
But now I’ve a full-bodied 7tin. barrelled .45 calibre
six-shooter, and for real business I wouldn’t swap it
for any weapon of the pistol breed I’ve met.
“Sassafras”: Kerosene tins? Even Henry
Lawson doesn’t know them as intimately as I do,
although I’ve played cut-throat on them with him.
When Christmas comes round the tin is used for
boiling the duff, ham and turkey. Also it is a
butter cooler and a wine cellar when filled with
water and hung down a well. Cut it overall about four
inches up the sides and the cake is done lovely.
Put a handle in it and if Strawberry is a good
milker she will fill it. Cut fair in halves length-
ways it makes two ding-
dong bread-baking dishes or
wash basins. Cut across
in halves and it is a pot-
plant holder, dog’s dish,
canary bath, mouse and
rat trap. Turned upside
down with a pendulum
and hung in a cherry-tree
it chases the birds. Carve
one end off and it will do
for carrying water, fruit,
milk, slops to the pigs,
spuds from the paddock.
Use the end only and stop
a hole from leaking- in the
roof. Take both ends off,
flatten out the body and
make a good sheet of
ridge-capping. Get about
two dozen and make an
entire roof for the villa on
the new selection. Cut
into strips three inches
■wide' and stop the wind
from blowing through the cracks in the wall. Chop
off one end and make a one-string violin. Any other
old time it is useful for holding kerosene, which is
rather handy at night.
* * * *
“Merrigal” : Though-nine out of 10 reckon
the Tasmanian emu identical with the mainland one,
the London Natural History Society, in 1907, adopt-
ing the diagnosis of Dudley le Souef, decided that
the big fellow belonged to a distinct species. Le
Souef remarked the darker green of the insular egg
and its smallness by comparison with the continental
one, and calculated that it was the product of a
more diminutive fowl. He also observed, amongst a
series of emu skins in the menagerie of the L.N.H.
Society, that only two, both Tassy ones, donated by
Ronald Gunn in 1838, had white throats. The first
emu sighted in N. S. Wales, bj r the way, was shot
two miles from the settlement, in 1788, and its coat
was sent to Lord Sydney, who presented it to Sir
Joseph Banks. Three live specimens sailed on the
Buffalo in 1800, to boom later in the Earl of Exeter’s
Park.
“H.W.F.” : In 1878 between Carcoar and
Cowra (N.S.W.) there was The Sheet o’ Bark Inn
with a painted sheet of bark hanging as a sign. But
the most striking sign I have seen was over the
Shoot ’em Flying Hotel in 1896; this shingle hung
out between Shellbourne and Baringhup (Vic.). The
pub is said to have been christened by the first
owner, who was a crack shot.
* * * e
“Athol”: The yarn that where there are
rabbits there are no hare's is all tosh. About a dozen
years ago I was burning hollow logs to get rid of
rabbits on Derra Derra station, 16 miles from Bin-
gera (N.S.W.). There were scores of thousands of
them, and, as far as I could judge, just as many
hares. Many of them had set up housekeeping
together, and crossbreds were numerous. As for
crows and magpies not hitting it, all I can say is
that here, at Mannuem Creek, Southern Queensland,
where there are thousands of crows, there are also
plenty of magpies. When we leave the camps in
the morning crows and magpies come down in
swarms looking for scraps.
„ •>
* * * *
“Wiggs”: Recipe for a jibbing horse. Fix
a pitchfork so that the points are opposite his tail-
end and just above the breeching. Then invite his Nibs
to get a move on. He wouldn’t go astern twice to
save his grandfather from the knacker.
* * * *
“O.O.”: We were sitting on deck in
Lauthala Bay, Fiji, when a shark showed up. Two
of the Lau boys decided that that fish was their meat,
and each, armed with a long-bladed knife, hopped
over the side and swam slowly towards the lawyer.
The shark immediately turned to attack one of the
Fijians, and just as we thought it was good night
another native who was standing alert on the rails-
jumped almost on top of the shark. Nothing but
foam and blood was seen for the space of minutes.
Then we put the winches into double gear and hauled
the monster on board. Incidentally the Lau natives
are the only ones in Fiji who will tackle this job.
“Barney”: Anyhow, all camels are not
duffers in the water. Some years ago a steamer
loaded at Pt. Augusta a good number of these
“docile” creatures for the West, amongst them being
a male noted for his bad temper. As the ship was
proceeding down Spencer’s Gulf and about abreast
of Franklin Harbor this brute ran amok and hurled
himself overboard by the tail. There was a four- or
five-mile swim to the shore, but that didn’t worry
the bull. It was the quiet little town of Franklin
that became excited when the big fellow meandered
up the main street. All the horses left for more
open country, and it took the residents two days to
get the camel into the local pound, w T here he amused
himself by chewing the fence and wasting his attar
of roses on the desert air.
SPORT AND WAR.
FIRST SPORT: “ War’s terrible, isn’t it?”
SECOND: “By Gripes, it is! I was jus ’
readin’ this mornin ’ about the poor
coves sloppin ’ about in the wet in
Flanders! That ’ud be no good to ME!”
“D.F.”: When did the word “bushrang-
ers” get its Ned Kelly meaning? In a report dated
November 1, 1805, Governor King used it of certain
men of experience in the bush whom he had sent out
to try to find a way over the Blue Mountains. He
observes that the yarns they spun when they got
back were very contradictory, but when he called
them “Bush Rangers” there was no land-pirate mean-
ing about it.
THE HORSE THAT DIED FOR ME
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They gave me a fiery horse to groom, and I rode him
on parade,
While he plunged and swung for kicking room like
a .young and haughty jade.
I rode him hard till I curbed liis will, hot foot in
the sham attack,
Till he ceased to jib, and took to drill like a first-
class trooper’s hack.
He tasted hell on the Indian Sea. Pent up in the
gloom below,
He dreamed of the days when he was free, and his
weary heart beat slow.
But he lived to leave the reeking ship, and he
raised his drooping head
With new-born zest when he felt the grip of the
earth beneath his tread.
I left him and sailed away to fight on foot in the
trenches deep—
A stretch that passed like an awful hour of fearsome
nightmare sleep.
I lived to search for a mount once more on the
crowded piquet line—
I rode him out as I did before, when I’d claimed the
horse as mine.
I loved him as only one who knows the way of a
horse may love;
Who rides athirst when the hell-wind blows and the
sun stands still above;
Who rides for cover behind the rise that lifts like
a wall of woe
And smites the vision of burning eyes when the
Moslem lead rips low.
Far out on the hock-deep sands that roll in waves
to the flaming sky,
He carried me far on the night patrol where the
Turkish outposts lie;
He took me back to the camp at noon when the
skirmish died amain,
And under a white and spectral moon he bore me
afield again.
Our squadrons surged to the left and right when
the fire of day was dead ;
The foemen crept in the sombre night with a wary,
noiseless tread.
We moved away on a flanking march, like a brown
line rudely drawn
That reached the foot of the grey sky’s arch in the
waking light of dawn.
The line closed in when the red sun shot from the
purple-tinted east
To glare with scorn on the wretched lot of man and
his jaded beast.
I urged my horse with a purpose grim for a ridge
where cover lay,
And my heart beat high for the heart of him when
he saved my life that day.
His knees gave way and I slipped from him: he
dropped in a sprawling heap
On the wind-gapped edge of the skyline’s rim where
the high-blown sand was deep;
DEEDS THAT WON THE EMPIRE.
THE E LIGIBLE: “ You’re always getting on to
me, but what have you done?”
HEZERLAH GREENHIDE, J.P. : “Wot ’ave I
done! How dare you! Didn’t I present
the schoolchildren with a magnificent
flagpole?”
And fear came down with a gusty rain of lead on
his final bed....
Before I turned for cover again I knew that his life
had fled.
My heart is warm for a heart that died in the desert
flank attack,
And the white sand surges down to hide the bones
of a trooper’s hack.
SINAI.
GERARDY.


CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
* «
ri
oL
s
,z
a
3
REFERENDA.
rS MEGGITT UNSEED OIL THE BEST ?
YES
NO
IS MEGGITTS LINSEED OIL MEAL THE BEST ?
YES
NO
For full particulars write Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R. 5. Exton & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Harrison Ramsay Pty Ltd Melbourne
Wm. Adams & Co., Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co.. Wellington, N.Z. or ’
MEGGITT LTD,, Linseed Oil Manufacturers, Parramatta, n.s.w


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That maKes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of thfs Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taKen at the commencement of a Colds but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to maKe any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE —a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drug's.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
am
!?/-
A
tit
: \
m
a^fkv
:/,
■
is?
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney. N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
13,
From a good Australian in the business :
Having witnessed a couple of local ' picture pro-
ductions, running into about five thousand feet of
film each, I want to ask why Australians aren t
content to start at the bottom, and work up to the
big things —that is, start otf on one- and two-reel
films, and then get to the five-reeler afterwards,
when the players, producers and camera-men have
obtained a thorough knowledge of the game. Theie
are millions of dollars invested in the movies in
U.S.A., and yet it took nearly 10 years to produce
a 5000-foot film worth looking at. The tendency
even in America is to work back to the old two-
reel “feature,” and one co. has already thrown over
the five-reelers. To be right up to date, the local
film men should specialise on the shorter films which
save time, trouble and money, and are likely to get
nearer home than the alleged “features ’ of the past
12 months..
“High Jinks” was introduced to London
as “an American-Australian success. ’ Lut
it must have been necessary to change the
title. It had been already used for sundry
farcical comedies —-“straight” and musical
“Circle” : A young Swiss, Paul Tlievenas,
has induced the Paris Opera heads to allow
him to form a class for the instruction of
the members of the ballet. He describes
himself as “a painter and rhymatist” and
believes that an artist should try to express
in dancing what he has learned in paint,
and vice versa. To which a lot of stout
brushmen will reply, “Art is long but
breath is shorter!” In plain English, the
enthusiastic Tlievenas wants the dancer to
say something with his or her body, instead
of just jumping about. Dunno whether he
has- anybody in his eye to fill the Pro-
fessor’s chair in his new school. But
Black Brudder should certainly have a
chance. Every movement in his corroboree
was part of a story. The Switzer’s new
evangel is certainly as old as man —perhaps
as old as the ape.
The new Oscar Asche piece, “Chu-Chm-
Chow,” just produced at London Majesty’s,
turns out to be, after all, not a Chinese play
but an Arabian Nights’ Entertainment,
founded on “The Forty Thieves.”
“Floater” : Theodore Kremer, author of
“The Fatal Wedding,” has been rescued
from oblivion by an Amurkan producer, who
has commissioned him to write a set of
bellowdramas with ’umble working-class
heroines. The first of these, called “Bertha,
the Sewing-machine Girl,” was finished
lately, and another, threatened with the title
of “Nellie, the Beautiful Cloak Model,” is
nearly ready. The English rights of both
shrieks have been secured by a prominent
English provincial manager, who hopes to
send them on tour this month.
“E.T.”: According to Australia’s old
theatrical friend Robert Courtneidge, Ger-
many made a bold bid to capture even the
English stage. Courtneidge affirms that he
continually received kind offers of “backing ’
from German and Austrian firms at the time
when most of the musical-comedy succesess
in London were coming from Vienna and
Berlin. Fortunately he was able to turn a
deaf ear to the proposals, and was one of
the first managers to insist on home-made
goods.
“Glen II.”: Recently it seems to have
occurred simultaneously to composers Puc-
cini and Mascagni that “Ouida’s” “Two
Little Wooden Shoes” could be turned into
a good opera. Both approached the lady’s
English publishers regarding the copyright;
but as the authoress had died intestate at
Viareggio, the disposal of her property
passed to the local town clerk, who put the
copyright up to auction. After brisk bid-
ding it was knocked down to Mascagni s
publishers for 6000 francs.
“Harrison O.” : I am sick to death of the
Yankee play and its terrible Yankee slang,
and the mimes who dress in the same old
way and talk with the same old twang. I m
sick of their “dallahs” and business, deals
and their beautifully-tailored “crooks”; the
“cop” who a rush of emotion feels, in spite
of his brutal looks, when he at a photo-
graph takes" a glance, shortly after the play
begins; of the wife who (barring a grave
mischance) at the finish will bear him
twins. I’m tired of the “roundsman” who
“cops” a “skirt,” then places her on
the grid” ; I’m full of the “frail,” with the
manner pert, who addresses a “bull” as
“kid.” I may also state that I’ve had
enough of the wonderful stolen “rocks,” of
the “geeks” who “peddle the sidewalk stun,
and the “rube” who the “fly” cove mocks.
When I listen to talk of “stretches’ done,
and of “boneheads” who "rock the boat, or
the “harness bull” and the “yegg’ and
“gun.” I’ll admit that it “gets my goat.
And I coldly refuse my sympathy to the
heroine “crook” at bay, for I would not
grieve in the least if she made a mess ot
her “get away,” and was promptly
“crumped” by a “flattie” whom she was
frequently wont to “rap,” and was lugged to
Sing-Sing, a “stretch” her doom —as a fact.
I believe I’d clap. I’ve never been “stacked
up against” this stuff; if it all to the winds
was heaved I would certainly show no signs
of huff or be in the least bit .“peeved.
Though many may dote on the Yankee play
and consider the lingo fine, if my choice I
had I would promptly say, “No, thank you;
‘nix for mine.’ ”
CROWDED TO THE DOORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back from their grand provincial tour
The Strolling Hogans came once more—
That name sufticent to ensure
The slamming tight of every door.
The boss was happy to confess
The trip had been a great success.
“Why, every house in our employ
Was "crowded to the doors, my boy !
“Take Cannonball, for instance, sir—
You should have heard the joyous roars.
We drew a hundred sovereigns there.
The place was crowded to the doors!
Now this was very true. In fact,
The street with creditors was packed.
Yes “Crowded to the doors was true.
Inside, however, there were two!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Billy Blue": Apropos Manly steamers
(B. 21/9/’l6), the first service was started
by Captain S. H. Wilson in the early CD's,
on Sundays only, but soon he made it a daily
business. By 1805 he was running the
Breadalbane and Phantom four times every
day, from the Queen’s wharf, adjoining the
tramway terminus (the old horse tramway
up Pitt-street) ; fares one shilling each way.
* * * *
“Ngatik” : The Japs are getting busy on
their new possessions in the Pacific. At
Ponape sugar-cane of a size and quality
that would make the C.S.R. Co. delirious
grows profusely, without cultivation. A
Government mill is being erected, and cane
is to be grown on scientific lines. At Toloas
oriental buildings are springing up, and the
customary hotel is at the disposal of tour-
ists. A museum will shortly be opened.
Several new firms have commenced business
in the Truk Lagoon, and one chap is looking
about in the interests of a trawling firm,
llandy-sized schooners do good business,
returning to Japan copra-laden. The Ger-
man stores were closed up long ago.
“Mujik”: I dunno anything about war
profits, but some profits are being made in
the world. Call them peace profits to save
unpleasantness, and then have a look at a
7000-ton steamer which churned up the mud
in Port Phillip the other day- Earning-
power, empty and full, £O5O a day. Expenses
—master and mates £B7 a month ; engineers
£77; Chows £5O. Grub for eight _whites,
£7O a month ; grub for 20 Chows, £75. Coal,
gear, fees another £2OO a month (perhaps).
Monthly credit, £19.500; debit, £559; bal-
ance £18,941. Multiply by 12 = £227,292.
But Higgs will not get any of that, even
though Australians pay the bill and the
writer of this par has to give £l7 10s. 6d.
for a leg of mutton.
“D.F.”: The success of the little plant
for making potash from kelp at Southport
(Tas.) has given birth to schemes for pro-
ducing iodine, which is getting scarcer and
dearer every day. E. and A. Wright have
secured from the Speck’s Government the
right to cut kelp on the foreshores of
Maria and Bruny Islands. Now the Com-
missioners of Fisheries and other people are
beginning to worry themselves about the
removal of the kelp, which is said to form
a natural shelter for certain important food
fishes. The promoters contend that the
kelp will grow all the better for being cut.
Anyway, there’s so much of it that a good
deal can be taken without annoying the fish
much.
# * * *
Nippon out after orders
Respective Gentlemen: —
You would, first of all, let us congratulate your
prosperity on business and on this occasion let us
express our hearty thanks for your everlasting
patronage on us. To requite your kindness, we sue
always striving ourselves by our most careful atten-
tions as to the quality of our goods in regard to the
selection of materials and workshops and by keeping
the possible, lowest prices.
Now to our greatest delight, we hereby oner the
new tipes of india rubber teats of our own make,
hoping that it would come to your kindest favoi.
Dear sirs, acknowledging the above mentioned
details, please oblige us much with your favorable
permanent orders; —methinks, quicker the better.
Hoping to be favored with your valued commands,
we are,
In the pleasure to be,
Your most Respectfully
R. S. V P. —* T
P.S. Correspondences should be done in English.
* * * *
“Boxer”: There was a good hat order
waiting to be filled a couple of months ago
in Sydney. The representative- of a Yankee
firm was bidding against the agent for a
busy Victorian mill that was born in the
High Protection days down south. The
Yank pointed out to the Sydney importer
that his distant principals could supply the
goods from their stocks quicker than the
Victorians next door, because the ictorians
were so busy that it would be weeks before
they would be able to tackle the order.
The Victorian rep. cheerfully admitted
that his people were choked up with
business, but offered to bet the Yank he
would get his goods to Sydney first. The
Yank took up the bet and won it by having
his vanload of hats boxed in dozens and
sent by parcel post. Shows what sea freights
are like when a man can just as well afford
to send by parcel post; also it shows what
a start Protection gives a country after
it has been going a while. Note, by the way,
that in the narrative N. S. Wales plays the
part of the humble nigger throughout.
* * * *
“F.N.T.” : The Eastern States use jarrah
for fence-posts and underground work
in preference to the local red-gum; and
therein is a striking instance of this coun-
try’s passion for dragging things long dis-
tances rather than use equally good stuff
which is at hand. Redgum, though no dearer,
has been proved to outlast jarrah, and is far
less likely to split; and a further point in
favor of using redgum is that only an expert
can tell whether he gets jarrah when he
orders it. The homebuilder specifying jarrah
for his “stumps” and fence-posts is practi-
cally in the hands of his builder, who may
save a few dishonest sovs. by substituting
the practically indistinguishable karri. How-
ever, while Australia cheerfully brings oak
all the way from Japan to make chairs,
instead of using the suitable Australian
blackwood, it can hardly be expected that a
serious attempt will be made to save such a
contemptible item as a bit of inter-State
freight.
* * * *
Faith dies to slow music in the S. M.
I-lerai.d (9/10/’l6) :
HIGH-CLASS Course in Hypnotism,- Telepathy,
Clairvoyance, and Personal Magnetism, etc. Sell
cheap, or exchange same for Accordion.
“D.F.”: The lately wrecked Antiope,
spoken of by “Bobstay” (8..28/9/’l6), was
quite an infant compared with some of the
sailing craft on the Australasian register.
She was not built till 18(56, while the little
schooner Ann was put together in Tasmania
in 183 G. That makes her 80, and she was
still working up and down the Derwent the
last I heard of her.
* * * *
“Belgian”: Japan makes its Scraps of
Paper into string of appalling strength. I
was shown a length of it the other day and
it is tough enough to hang a man —or choke
a nation that didn’t protect itself behind a
high tariff wall against such ingenuity
backed by cheap labor.
* * * *
“S.A.” : Ostrich farming has been given a
trial at Coonamble and Narromine (N.S.W.)
with satisfactory results. The birds cost
about £OO in Sydney, and, giving three clips
every two years, each worth about £25, pay
for themselves in five years. Thereafter,
unless Kaiser W. gets them or. woman loses
interest in hats, the feather-farmer’s income-
tax will be as high as a bank clerk’s salary.
*•*•**
“Pigs is Pigs”: A sow belonging to J.
Mackrell, of Euroa (Vic.), has increased
the hog population by 41 during the last 15
months. She has had three families, the
first of 12, the second of 14 and the last of
15, and all are doing well. Her owner sold
the first lot for 295. each, the second up to
255., and by the time the third go to market
he expects to have netted between £4O and
£5O.
* * * *
There seems to be a mystery about the
power of the S. Aus. Government, under an
Act of the present session, to remove adver-
tisements that deface a landscape. At any
rate, a great soap ad. has been cut into a
slope at Glen Osmond, and the white letters
do not look bad from Adelaide, four miles
away. But the proprietors have announced
that they will remove it if 100 people ask
them to, and 1000 are rushing in. The
Premier thought it worth while to announce
in Parliament that it will be gone by the
end of the year.
* * * *
URGENT APPLICATION FOR A CURSE.
[For. The Bulletin.]
Hell burn bis eyes and rack his wastrel bones
Until his tortured muscles ache and crack,
And ev’ry nerve rings up for ling’ring' groans!
Let red-hot actors slap him on the back
Ere pressing in his hands the red-hot cash
They begged on earth that they might pay in Hell;
And when from their hot hands he tries to dash,
Let all pursue him with a sizzling yell.
What rot! I have no grudge against the brute!
I only want to get him his deserts!
Let, devils dress him in a white-hot suit
And contradict him when he says it hurts.
Let him be stung by something large and hot
And bitten by a snake—the largest sort.
Oh, then he might be clawed-yes, clawed a lot!
And elephants might sit on him and snoit.
I have no grudge, I tell you! Do you doubt it?....
He owes me five bob ! That is all about it.
s w O’FURIOUS LENDER.
THE MILK BATTALION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They muster at night on the side verandah;
When it is dark they all fall in,
Close to the wind-blown jacaranda
That stands so still near the city’s din —
•Tug's and cans and a screw-top bottle,
Some with their labels and some without,
A dented lid that has age’s mottle,
A broken handle, a broken spout.
And in the dawn, when their owners slumber —
Business girls and bachelors,
Married young folk whom no bairns encumber —
The wide-awake milkman comes and poprs.
Pints, half-pints or a full quart, maybe,
The milkman pours with accustomed hand.
There is no scrawled note for “a pint for baby”—■
There are no kids here, you will understand.
After he’s gone, light feet come tripping
Down the long passage and down the stair;
Slim hands reach —it was nearly slipping—
And take the jug that is Doulton ware.
A man’s tread sounds ; there’s a startled flutter
Of wrapper light; then a brawny fist
Grabs at a can, while a man’s lips mutter
Words that are lost in the morning mist.
Dainty, yet firm, are the steps that follow,
Rare are the gems in the rings that clink
Hard on the flanks of a milk-jug hollow —-
This pallid stuff is not madame’s drink !
Clattering down with his sandals flapping,
Puffing a smoke, as a fresh youth will,
Cometh Apollo, brown and strapping—-
His is the bottle they never filF"
Madame has paused, she almost lingers,
Holding her gown as she climbs the stair ;
Bright are her eyes as her jewelled fingers;
Wondrous wrappers doth madame wear.
One jug is left of the milk battalion—
One little jug; it is grey and short,
And on its side there’s a splendid galleon
Sailing away to a Spanish port.
Measure well filled did the milkman tip it,
Full to the brim, with a splash to spare;
Yet there comes never a hand to grip it
Firmly and carry it up the stair.
Who is its owner, a man or woman ?
Someone is sleeping her fill this morn,
Something half-pitiful, almost human,
Clings to the little grey jug forlorn.
There is a bird on the jacaranda
Trilling a song in the sunlight sweet,
Somebody conies down the side verandah
Slowly and haltingly (Age’s feet
Wearily go, when the journey’s ending),
Someone has paused, and with slow, slow care
Down to the brimming grey jug is bending—-
Sweet little woman with snow-white hair!
Holding her jug, with its brave blue galleon,
Up to the singer she lifts her face—
Oh ! many may march in the milk battalion.
But the little grey jug has the proudest place !
MAORI LAND.
WILL LAWSON.


■ i ihiiiiJiiim
.c
\W vw
m
%
Q)
Q
1
d'//
Y//s
k
y
c
55%
St
YA
&
m
m
DESERTED IN THE MAGIC CAVE, ALADDIN RUBS THE WONDERFUL
LAMP AND THE MAZDA GENIE APPEARS.
Aladdin Series
No. 2.
hfg
‘Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
TELEPHONE-
CITY 3510 (5 lines).
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering: Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.), Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
——4g|ents—
‘Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
* TELEPHONE-
CENTRAL 2646, 2647 ; CITY 9579.
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : ITnbehaun & Jolinstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering; Co. Ltd., Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.


A. Saunders’ Solid Sil-
ver JLady’s Hair Brush,
silver drawn Bristles, hand-
seme “Ribbon” design, 257-
Mirror to match, 45/-
A. Saunders’ Candlestick, Al
quality, pure Silver-plated, “Leaf” de-
sign, highly burnished, 10/6.
m
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set,
best-quality Instruments, crystal cut-glass Jars, in
S'lk-lined Case, 30/-
HANDSOME TOILET GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Toilet Hair
Receiver, hand engraved, solid
Silver Lid, cut crystal glass Jar,
12/6.
ii. .
A. Saunders’ Manicure Toilet Set, best
quality, Solid Silver-mounted Instruments, finest
cut crystal glass Jars, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Perfume
Spray, hand-
somely engraved,
Solid Silver
Mount, cut crystal
glass Bottle,
m 17/6.
»
ill s
■
m
imm
, :■
Pi:.\ iV-C'.-v;
mimmll
‘M
■n
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Six-piece Toilet Set, comprising one Hand
Mirror, bevelled glass, two Hair Brushes, silver drawn bristles, Cloth and Hat
Brushes, “Reed and Ribbon” design, in Silk-lined Case, £B/8/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station). SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Lady’*
Hand Mirror, plain concave design
bevelled glass, handsomely burnished,
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Military
Brush Set, complete, with two Hair Brushes, Cloth
Brush and Comb, highly burnished, neat “Ribboa”
design, or plain concave, in Silk-lined Case,
£4/4/-
Cures Eczema.
Frederick Street, Camperdown. Mr. S. Fielder,
Randwick. Dear Sir, —I have received great benefit
from your Skin Cure “Exzerma,” for Prickly Heat
and Chafe, and I will be pleased to recommend it to
anybody I see suffering from the same distressing
trouble. —Ernest Bird.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or S. FIELDER, Randwick. 2|5
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK &. PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
hfg
hgf
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. How to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen tiie
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler's Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer's Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce, 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
Bd. How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/8. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/. posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FjOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life In its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete,_ unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great w'ork. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ii»- BOOKSELLER TO THE, COMMONWEALTH. ~ms
Prop. Fowier’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, Xl-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-To-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score,, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan's Engine
Driver's Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. iHT'Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
liE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,-
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappiio,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adasi Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers’ Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingersoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
- . tvt ion i Watmtg all of fi/fi nnst.PfL
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster's Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather bound,
mv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas?).
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore's Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. • 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot, 67 8
69 Market Street, Sydney <only>


I
m
BO VR6 L
increases
the defensive forces of the body.
To keep lit drink Bovril.
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
THREE ~RTBBEn TYRES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
ami prices will be
m tiled on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS , 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.8.—70
ifi I'll),
h
“And You Should
Freely Use
Funnrats
BORATED TALCUM
If you want ‘Baby’ to get rid
of that troublesome eruption.
Give him his baths regularly
with plenty of “Mennen’s”
>r,
after, and his skin will clear up in a few days.
Why do Doctors and Nurses advise Mothers to use
Mennen’s Borated Talcum?
Because they know it is the purest, and hence the best.
——- There are many kinds of Talcum, but the
finest , smoothest and costliest comes from Italy—from the
best mines. That is the talcum “Mennen” employs.
By a secret process it is refined to the highest degree
—pure boric acid (a mild disinfectant) is combined with
it in the right proportion, and it is faintly scented.
Mennen’s Talcum can now be obtained in a variety of
tints and perfumes, all made according to the famous
Mennen formula, as follows: Borated, Violet, Sen Yang,
Cream Tint (a rich cream color), Flesh Tint (not a rouge,
but a delicate pink talcum) and Talcum for Men. For
sale by more than 100,000 dealers throughout the world.
INFERIOR TALCUMS ARE DEAR AT ANY PRICE. USE ONLY
THE BEST—“MENNEN’S”
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
fh
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
O nN
SCO 0
DO
anS-Aanfa-
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Niclcel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
fg
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d. j
H. L. HutcHinson Ltd.
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
“I" IVO Li I THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY'S AJTD SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MACNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
-|-I VOLI THEATRE, MELHOTJ RNE-
THE ROYAL STROLLERS.
SYDNEY JAMES, MADELINE ROSSITER, GWEN
LEWIS, CONNIE MILNE, V. G. DESMOND, GEO.
GRAYSTONE.
Also, Degnon and Clifton, Haydee’s Marionettes,
Artois Duo, The Skatelles, Svinoft', Musical Irving and
Merlin.
Plan at Glen's.
eTi M a ,1 TES T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
First Production in Sydney of the London Gaiety
Hit,
TO-NIGHT’S THE NIGHT.
A Musical Delight, Bringing Back Here
,T. C. WILLIAMSON’S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
(“Svdney’s Own.”)
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
QK IT E R lON T H E A T RE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Reigning
Success of London since Oct. 10, 1915, when it was
produced at the Duke of .York’s Theatre,
ROMANCE,
Bv Edward Sheldon, with MADGE FABIAN and
FRANK HARVEY and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
AI,A C E T HEATH E, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY' EVENING AT 8.
THE FINEST ATTRACTION IN THE CITY.
ALLEN DOONE, in his New Play,
HAPPY-GO-LUCKY O’SHEA
Hear Allen Doone sing the New Songs: “The Kil-
kenny Cats,” “The Night Bird’s Cooing','’ “Think of
Me, Sweet Maid.” Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales
it the White Rose. Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Garden the a t r
Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. T.TD.
THE DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING (wet or fine) at 8.15.
Prices: 2/- and 1/-. Reserved, 2/6.
e ,
33l
T BIANGLE l’Li ays at
THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session ;
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Pi'ices: 6d. to 2s. 6d.
Union 'Theatres Ltd. (incorporating West’s Ltd.,
Spencer’s Pictures Ltd., The Greater J. D. Williams
Amusement Co. Ltd).
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
u
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
NION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
: 15EATER .1. 0.-WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Bariun'gtos Miller, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Scintillating
Musical Success,
lllti CINEMA STAR.
Plan at Allan's.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and lI-
TII EAT RE ROY T A L, MELBOU BN E.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 28.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd., present JULIUS
KNIGHT in the ever popular
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE FOLLIES OF PLEASURE
in
THE MATINEE GIRL & IN JOYLAND.
Reappearing SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4.
THE ALLAN WILKIE
SHAKESPEARIAN CO.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
"incus thieatre, si elbou r n e.
Lessees. . . .Bert Bailey & Julius Giant.
K
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The BERT BAILEY CO. presents HARRY PLUMMER
and an augmented combination in
LOVEUS’ LANE.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and !/• _.
RCADIA ST. HILDA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK PTY. LTD.
TIIE PINK HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
In their Delightful Entertainment.
Prices: 2/-, II- and 6d. Sixpence Extra all round
on SATURDAYS and HOLIDAYS. Plans at Glen s
and Habers’.
Amusements. .
W~~ IRTHS’ HIPPODROME, WIRTHS’ PARK,
MELBOURNE.
FOR FOUR WEEKS ONLY.
WIRTHS’ GREAT CIRCUS AND
MENAGE HIE.
Featuring the RIOGOKU JAPANESE, the Greatest
and Cleverest Japanese Risley Performers the World
has ever produced.
Plan at Glen’s. Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-.
Birch & c v it it o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers. .
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over tins
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office : ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
FUL.EE R'S II O T EL, MELBOURNE
(adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table, Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
ELLA CARRINGTON.
Government Notices.
Commonwealth of Australia
WAR SERVICE.
ALL PERSONS who are British subjects
and who
(a) are of the age of twenty-one years and
upwards and under thirty-five years
and have not resided in Australia for
six months;
(])) are under the age of twenty-one years
and have resided in Australia for six
months:
(c) are under the age of twenty-one years
and have not resided in Australia for
six months,
are required to attend for enlistment before
the Military Registrar of the Military Sub
District in which they reside upon attain-
ing the age of twenty-one years or upon the
completion of six months residence in Aus-
tralia (whichever shall last happen), if they
are then unmarried or widowers without
A p LUS GOMBE,
Lieut.-Colonel,
A.A.G.. 2nd Military District.
October 20, 1916.
Commonwealth of Australia War Service,
Military Order, Leave of Absence.
ALL men enlisted and called into Camp
under the Proclamation issued under
Part IV. of the Defence Act. who prior to
their enlistment Avere engaged or employed
in seasonal occupations such as the growing
of cereals, fruit and sugar-cane, are to be
granted Military leave of absence and re-
leased entirely from Military Service tor
such periods as they may be required toi
these purposes. This order will apply simi-
larly in the case of those who were engaged
in Sheep Shearing and Sugar-cane Crushing.
Commanding Officers of Camps are in-
ducted to grant all bona-fide applicants per-
lission. to return forthwith to their occupa-
ons. . „
A free return Railway warrant will be
isued to enable men to proceed to the places
t which they were employed, and are now
eeded for employment.
(Sgd.) T. H. DODDS, Colonel,
ictoria Barracks, Military Secretary.
Melbourne. 19/10/T6. ___
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, sth October, 191 b.
Tenders for the Supply of Electric Eight
Machinery for Quarantine Boarding
Launch, Brisbane.
TENDERS are invited subject to the con-
ditions of tender, until 12 noon on Mon-
day, 13th November, 1916, for the supply of
Electric Light Machinery for Quarantine
Boarding Launch, Brisbane. Delivery to be
made c.i.f. Brisbane.
Tender form, specifications and any tur-
ther particulars may be obtained from the
Director of Navy Contracts, or at the NavaL
Staff Offices, Brisbane, EdgeclifE (Sydney),
Port Adelaide, Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Wanted.
V ANTED, Mining Clerk, competent to
assay for Copper, Gold and Silver. Apply
y letter 11. B. Jamieson & Griffiths, Public
ccountants, 263 George Street, Sydney, i
I//
X
\
Grown on British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels. »•
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers. tnndan.
JEvane Son* Leecher & Webb, Ltd.- — Liverpool


[tor any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, John
Harr and E. O’t liirall, of 214 George-street, Svd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
sw
IN
D
Y
rs
ELY
ibe Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is ideal for
Luncheons. Dinners, Afternoon Teas. Supper and Wedding Parties
and all semi-outdoor functions.
V isitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel replete with every
comfort and modern convenience, including telephones in bedrooms con-
necting with the Exchange.
The cuisine is under the supervision of a very eminent French chef,
who has his own skilled staff of assistants—thus placing the Went-
worth Hotel with its perfect service and other advantages in the front
rank of the finest hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
MRS. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
hfg
hfg
GeorceJ*
Two features every night, 3 hours—l2.ooo feet of film—B to 11. Theatre
thoroughly cleaned and ventilated between day and night performances.
CONTINUOUS DAILY, 11 to C.
WILLIAM FOX PHOTO-PLAYS SUPREME are shown
one week at Hoyt’s before any other theatre.
METRO-DRAMAS FIRST RELEASES SCREENED.
Phone City 6218 and Reserve Seats. Plan at Theatre. Prices: 6d. & 1/-;
Saturdays and Holidays, 1/- and 1/6.
Bourke 5-
. The Picture Bloc
6
POLITICAL
POINTS
Yes —Australia will be there. Nein—Aus-
tralia won’t be there.
On this occasion Australia can only save
its face by smothering its Noes.
The anti brigade are alleging that a re-
cent speech by the Viceroy of India proves
the truth of the statement that arrangements
are already in existence to bring black
labor to Australia. This is a gross perver-
sion of what the Viceroy was talking about
when referring to the inauguration of an
“improved system of recruiting labor for the
colonies.’’ The reference was to Crown
colonies and particularly to Fiji, to which
coolie labor is regularly dispatched from
India under conditions that have long been
resented by the Indian people.
“If you vote for conscription,” the Antis
tell the women, “the married men will so in
have to go.” Under the voluntary system in-
sufficient single man have been available;
therefore tens of thousands of married men
have already gone. Conscription will put an
end to all that. Not another married man
will have to go until every eligible single
man has been put into khaki. Conscription
will save the married men. Anti-conscrip-
tion has sacrificed thousands. Conscription
will shelter the wives and children. Anti-
conscription shelters the unmarried shirkers.
THE OLD LIE.
COMEDIAN (sympathetically to tragedian,
who has just returned from his wife's
funeral): “Many there, laddie ?”
T RAGEDIAN: “Gad, dear hoy, actually turn-
ing them away.”
Perhaps, after all, President Wilson is
too proud to fight—anyway, to start fighting
and knock off before the finish. The anti-
conscriptionist isn’t.
Some alleged Labor patriots are going purple
in the face at the very thought of colored
labor being introduced. Some of the most
purple of them have been for many years
in Parliament. It seems a fair thing to
ask these terribly earnest. White Australians
whether they have ever done a single thing
to keep Australia white by fighting for a
prohibitive tariff* on colored labor goods. If
they haven’t, it is quite safe to turn them
down as humbugs and hypocrites.
“If conscription is necessary,” writes an
old bush barracker for The Bulletin, “why
not conscript wealth?” Very well, and what
are you going to do about it then? Can a
bale of wool or a bundle of sheepskins fight?
Take the bale of wool and the bundle of
sheepskins, by all means; and Higgs is seeing
to that. But you can only use the wool and
the _ skins to pay for food and clothes and
equipment. Seize every sheep and comman-
deer every cow in Australia, and that won’t
drive Germany back one inch. Only men can
do that.
POINTS OF VIEW.
THE OLD ’U N: “Wish I was twenty years
younger.”
THE YOUNG ’UN : “Wish I teas ten years
older.”
Chiozza Money, the English economist, has
found it out, too. The superior physique and
bearing of the Anzacs when compared with
the English Tommies had been noted, and
Chiozza Money got to the root of it: —
The Anzacs have shaken off the traditions of
poverty and class rule which shackled the progress
of the masses in the mother country, and are proof
that the British race can regain the physical stan-
dard which is its proper inheritance.
Naturally the Argus calls this old theory
“curious.” But that is only because it is
applied to men. If it were a horse, now, the
Argus would not think it at all “curious”
that the animal should show the results of
better feeding, better housing .and better con-
ditions generally. But when there is a man
in the case, then, from the Freetrader’s and
Fatman’s point of view, it isn't at all the
way Money ought to talk.
The Antis still make a mouthful of the
fact that Canada hasn’t got conscription.
But:—
(1) Conscription has never been put to the
people of Canada. It has been decided against by
an anti-Labor, individualist Government. That
doesn’t seem much of a reason why Socialistic Labor
unions should also oppose it.
(2) While there isn’t to be conscription in
Canada, a public register is to be kept,, so that
those who don’t enlist may be marked. This is
backstairs compulsion. It isn’t honest, straight-
forward voluntaryism. Canada has, in short, intro-
duced Private Enterprise in compulsion in place of
national compulsion. It doesn’t seem much of a
“victor}' ’ for a Socialistic Labor league to crow over.
(3) Even if Canada hasn’t adopted conscription,
that is no reason why Australia shouldn’t. • Canada
didn’t have conscription for Home Defence either.
But the Labor party didn’t regard that as a good
reason why Australia shouldn’t have it. Canada
hasn’t got womanhood suffrage or the baby bonus
cither. Will the P.L.L. therefore seek to abolish
those things?
(4) We have more to lose than Canada has, any-
way. Germany never had a thought of collaring
Canada. For one thing, Germany knows that, on
account of the Monroe doctrine, it would have to
fight the U.S.A. first. And when it has done with
the Allies Germany won’t want to fight anybody for
a while, even if it were to win the present struggle.
So the Antis are quite welcome to all the
good the Canadian “example” is likely to do
them.
Though the contending armies number
millions, every man counts and will count
to the end. From the first glorious stand at
Ypres, when cooks and grooms helped to
stop the rush of the confident Prussian
Guard with the first thing they could grab,
the war has been full of wonderful little
exploits carried through successfully bv
little groups of men. And one man less in
a little, hard-pressed group may mean the
firilure of thd group—the regiment—the
army—the Nation.
It is astonishing how ignorant an M.P. can
be. Here is the just-returned Hampson, of
Bendigo, talking:—
I trust the free people of Australia will never
make the mistake of fastening- the manacles of
conscription on their own wrists.
Evidently Hampson doesn’t know that con-
scription is the law of Australia, and that
“the manacles” were fastened on by the party
to which he belongs. Every man in Aus-
tralia is liable to be called on for service in
defence of his country. All that it is now
proposed to do is to make him liable to
defend his country by meeting the enemy
somewhere else instead of waiting for him
to attack us at home. If Hampson thinks
that it is best to fight at home he ought to
consult some Belgian woman. And if he
doesn’t know any Belgian woman he might
ask De Largie, the Labor Senator from
Westralia, who has just come back from
the Front. I)e Largie says :
I wish everyone in Australia could have seen and
heard all 1 have during the last few months. lie
would thank God that the war is not being- fought
on the virgin soil of Australia. In France we saw
the barbarous and horrible side of war. The sacked
towns and villages. The sufferings of innocent
women and children. The painful sights at the
temporary dressing-stations after a battle, and the
battlefield burial-places. All told their own story.
There is only one thing worse than this, and that is
to live under the heel of Prussian junkerdom.
. The vote on Saturday isn’t on the question
of conscription or no conscription. We
shall have conscription however it goes.
Conscription is the law, made years ago bv
the Labor party and approved by all parties.
What we shall say if we vote No is that we
will let the enemy bring these horrors of
war to our own homes before we act.
They run in all shapes. Besides the young
man who supports his mother and may be
entitled to exemption from military service,
a Melbourne Court last week met a youth
who asked to be excused from going to the
war because his mother supported him and
he didn’t have to do anything. A vonng
man like that ought to be' a fine exhibit for
the anti-compulsionists. The P.L.C. cer-
tainly ought to show him with an inscrip-
tion on his collar: “This young man has
been a loafer all his life. His mother has
enough money to keep him. Down with -the
villains who would rob him of the liberty to
go on loafing.”
France—which must always take the first
shock —couldn’t face an inconclusive pence
now and a renewal of the horror in a few
years’ time. Germany (population oil
millions) has 4,600,000 boys between the
ages of 12 and 18, whereas poor France
(population 39 millions) has only 1,800,000.
The job must be finished now.
UNCONSCIOUS.
“Of course, he doesn't realise his Utile weak-
ness.”
Oh, no. I’ve heard him boasting that he
never boasts.”
*f 0 , w anti-compulsionists love liberty!
lulled with horror of coercion, a deputation
of members of the A.YY .U. the other evening*
waited on the agent of the union at Tocum-
wtU (JN.s.w.) and gave him three days to
change his views on conscription. if he
couldn’t manage it in that time, the penaltv
would be expulsion from the A.W.U.. loss of
the agency and boycott of his business.
Anti-conscriptionist M’s.P. are telling
Australia that it has done more than its
share in the war. One section hasn’t, anv-
how. By August last one-third of the meiii-
the House of Commons had been in
tlie thick ot it; and when you consider the
surprising age of the average British At.P.
that must have included pretty nearlv every
ht man of military age.
Consider: the splendid selfishness of these
anti-conscriptionists. At Richmond ( Vic.)
Tudor, M.P., dived into the figures of Aus-
tralia’s killed, missing and wounded, am]
claimed that on his figures (afterwards
shown to be incorrect) our present reinforce-
ments were ample. Even if the ex-Minister’s
assumption that 50 per cent, of the wounded
are sufficiently patched up to return to the
THE LIFE-SAVERS.
HE: “Yes, all the Johnnies going to the rear.
Bally dangerous, y'know.”
S HE: “Oh, yes. You have no idea of the
danger of surfing now they are away.”
firing-line were correct, which it isn’t, he
makes no allowance whatever for depletions
through illness or for prisoners of war.
Apparently Tudor expects Blutwurst Bill to
return captured Anzacs as soon as they re-
cover, so that they may continue fighting
till they, are killed. Aleantime, stand off
and admire the anti-conscriptionist politician
who expects men, after a year or more of
hard fighting, to bog into it again as soon
as they recover from wounds or sickness,
while able-bodied cold-footers shirk it cosily
out here.
[F. C. Jones, Elg-ar-road, Burwood, Vic.]
Once more the absurdity of party govern-
ment. As a State, .N. S. Wales knows
nothing about conscription or any military
matter whatever; yet there is a possibility
of a loud roar followed by party reconstruc-
tion. and the dismemberment of the present
Cabinet, over a question which is as
academic to State members as a discussion
<’i the popular Roman debating society
theme of the chastity of Helen. Somebody
ought to wave a public waddy and tell the
rs.S.W. Assembly to get on with its own
job.
‘Carfax ‘ on the N.S.W. passion for
economy : —■
Shortage of paper and high prices seem to spur
Governments on to further efforts in issuing sausage
wraps. There has just been prepared for gratuitous
circulation by the N.S.W. State printery a ton
or so of literature about the fish enterprise and the
three trawlers (imp.). There is a large picture of
fhe Minister for Fish (George Black) decorated in
a white coat opening an oyster for the Lord Mayor.
Also one, a bit bigger, of cold, wet fish on a
wharf. Likewise there are statistics about leather-
jackets and barracouta, and the document folds up
into 10 pages. Of course it is merely an election-
eel nig pamphlet, and therefore the balance-sheet
and correspondence with the Auditor-General are
carefully- left out. Now is the cost of all this going
to be charged against the gurnard and the mullet or
chalked up to loan account?
Says the Sydney Worker:—
<<ir^, en Watson, the one-time democrat, votes
les on October 28 next, he will have t-he satis-
faction of knowing that lie has aided in sending
men to their doom.
So the \\ orker gives up hope, and admits
t.iat the Antis are going to be walloped.
the railways of at least two States are
now using dyes and stains manufactured
trom the grasstree—mostly of Gippsland—
and a bustling industry has been established
that ought to make two generations of poli-
ticians thoroughly ashamed of themselves.
The war shows that sufficient Protection
was all that was necessary to establish the
industry, and it is a deplorable thing that
we should have had to wait for a mad Ger-
man to give it to us.
A WORD TO THE WAVERERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Be a sport, and vote “Yes,’’
For tlie summons to arms is a cry of distress
From the nations that bleed from the blow of the
Hun,
Whose creed would deny them a “place in the
sun.”
There is Freedom at stake, there’s a fight to be
won —
Be a sport and vote “Yes”!
We must win, or we lose,
There is no middle course for the players to choose;
No way of escape from the fix we are in ;
No playing for safety, save playing to win.
We must stand fast, or fall, by our kith and our
kin—
We must win, or we lose.
Be a sport, and vote “Yes.”
You’ve a duty to do and a faith to confess.
The tales of the Antis are tissues of lies ;
The dupes of the Antis are weak and unwise.
Put the ease to your manhood, and Manhood
replies—
“Be a sport and vote ‘Yes’ ” !
EDMUND FISHER.
Bulletin Office, Melbourne.


PNHISMUESTtij
9
BYBBEKZLIIMCn
COMMAND
Exciting Episodes
in Australian History
The early days of this continent bristled with thrilling adven-
tures, and naturally Australian writers have used a number of
these stirring incidents for the plots of their novels. Some of
the best stories in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
are those dealing with strenuous early settlement days.
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,” By ROY BRIDGES.
An intensely dramatic historical romance of Van Diemen’s Land. It contains
some excellent pen-pictures of that stirring period in Tasmanian history when
Australia’s first bushranger, Red Mike Howe, and his gang were the terror of
the colony. A splendid love story is interwoven with the exciting events..
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,” By DON DELANEY.
A splendid novel dealing with the Macquarie regime. A story of rushing
excitement that holds the reader’s attention from the first page.
“MR, BARRINGTON,” By ROY BRIDGES.
The story of the adventures of George Barrington, the “gentleman” rogue, thief
and highwayman, who was transported to Australia and became a notable
figure in the little convict settlement. Barrington is one of the most amazing
characters in the annals of crime.
“FOR TURON GOLD,” By DON DELANEY.
A brilliant goldfields story, in which a murder mystery, thrilling bushranging
episodes and a fine love story combine to make it one of the most popular of
“Bookstall” novels.
“THE BARB OF AN ARROW,” By ROY BRIDGES.
A briglitly-told story of some of the little-known episodes of early Tasmania.
BOOKS ON THE AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGERS.
“THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN
RANGE,” By AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,”
By LANCELOT BOOTH.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDER-
BOLT,” By AMBROSE PRATT.
“SHORT-LIVED BUSHRANGERS,”
By CHAS. WHITE.
“DAN KELLY—OUTLAW,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER,”
By CHAS. WHITE.
LOUIS BECIvE’S
Great Story of the South Seas,
“THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS
BLAKE.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD’S
Splendid Australian Mining Story,
“BILLY PAGAN, MINING
ENGINEER.”
Have you read STEELE RUDD’S Latest Success, “GRANDPA’S SELECTION”?
II- each.
From all Booksellers.
Write for a Complete Cata-
logue of Australia’s most
popular Fiction Series.
1/1 posted.
From the Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The British West|n.ghousc..Electr.c ili and Co., Ltd-
Westinghouse
Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
Simplicity of detail.
Even turning moment.
Accessibility of all moving parts.
Minimum fuel consumption.
Low maintenance costs.
Absolute reliability.
Westinghouse Oil Engines are particularly suited for irrigation and
farm vvork, requiring no attention after starting up. Being fitted
with oil feed pump (of special construction) and fuel atomiser,
ensures complete combustion of fuel and high economy.
Westinghouse Gas Engines give highly satisfactory and economical
service in driving generators for small electric lighting installations,
industrial and agricultural machinery, etc., as proved by the large
number now operating in all parts of the world.
Send your enquiries to nearest office.
fstinoliousr
Klanchestey
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA:—
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne,
AGENTS;—
Standard Waysood Hercules Ltd..
77. King Street. Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co.. Ltd-
William Street, Perth.
Elder. Smith & Co.. Ltd.,
27 —31, Currie Street. Adelaide.
Elder. Smith & Co., Ltd-.
84 —SS, William Street. Melbourne.
h
£
a
A REMARKABLE FEAT
BY OXY-ACETYLENE
is demonstrated by the illustration, which shows how an old and worthless boiler, forty years
of age and of enormous dimensions, was cut into small pieces and carried away from a
confined situation in the basement of a printing works. The whole work, conducted under
the most difficult of situations, was finished in two days. Without. OXY-ACETYLENE
the work would have taken weeks, and the whole of the printing machinery and plant would
have been idle and disorganised for weeks in excavation and dismantling work.
EVERY ENGINEER and all interested should write in for free catalogues, giving
pictures and detailed description of this and other remarkable engineering achievements. The
total length of cutting done in the two days, by one man. was 144 ft. Gin. of a single
thickness of lin. plate, and 18ft. Bin. of the double thickness of 2in. plate.
THROUGHOUT GREAT BRITAIN, AMERICA AND THE CONTINENT the
OXY-ACETYLENE process is being more extensively used day by day for cutting up
iron and steel structures, such as old boilers, tanks, bridgework, etc. „
Every Australian Engineer should be able to speak with facility and confidence of the OXY-ACETYLENE
Cutting and Welding Process.
Those- workshops which are rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, contractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers,
repair shops, foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
mm
mwarn
a
m
m
aS
ipV.?*
•* 1 *' *
sK£
'*’ V;
;
■
TO
8$
s&v
v? 3
v'.v/irv'
Cutting: up a Cornish
Multitubular Boilor.
Vir.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.
The Permanent Trustee Building:,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Agents— MELBOURNE: Eyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Eilward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


Australia lias made, and must make, vast
sacrifices for freedom. But when was free-
dom won without vast sacrifices is the ques-
tion inspired by that wise spirit King
George IV. topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
The Triad for October maintains the high stan-
dard which this magazine has established since its
introduction to Australia. There is any amount of
variety in the number, and the contributors include
Ellerslie Grey; Frank Morton, who writes interest-
ingly on “The Whirl of Woy Wov” ; Will Lawson,
who chats about “A Great Sea Route”; Edward
Stirling; M. E. Forrest; and “The Trials of a
Motor Journey” from Sydney to Melbourne are
depicted most entertainingly. In its critical sec-
tion The Triad is full of interest. The criticisms
include Verdi and the Sydney Philharmonic Society,
Sydney Theatres, Sydney Symphony ..Orchestra, Noises
in Newcastle, Royal Art Society, the Sentimental
Mr. Campbell, and Grand Opera in Sydney. Some
excellent reproductions of famous Gallery pictures
appear in the art pages; and three line songs by
M. Carey Wallace will appeal to music-lovers.
Anyone who is interested in the musical, theatrical
or literary world should not overlook the oppor-
tunity of securing this number. October Triad
On Sale at all Newsagents and Bookstalls, City,
Suburbs and Country. Price 6d.— Advt.
Men shaved years ago in a way
that gashed their chins and
spoilt their tempers. Why cling
to these old-time methods ?
NO STROPPING NO HONING
combines safety, speed and
comfort with adjustability.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere. Write for free booklet.
Agents: S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
gfh
Victoria Racing Club,
Flemington.
The Profits of the Year All Go To War Relief Funds.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY 4th November.
CUR DAY 7th November.
OAKS DAY 9th November.
STEEPLECHASE DAY .. . .11th November.
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO OVER £30,000
The magnificent new improvements add much to
the comfort of Visitors.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
I tie Bulletin either knew something or
had luck when it suggested a fortnight ago that the
first two horses in the Eclipse Stakes were reasonable
investments for the Caulfield Cup. Cyklon won the
Eclipse Stakes, with Shepherd King rapidly catching
him, and Sasanof finished fourth, behind Prince
Bardolph. The winner had been scratched for the
Cup, so there was only Shepherd King left to the
reasonable investor. On the strength of this not very
convincing revelation of his long-expected form, tlie
handsome English. horse was backed down to 11 to
two for the Cup before the, start. And how did he
win it! He was close up with the two leaders as
they made the turn for home, and shooting out at
tlie distance-post he had the stake at his mercy.
Amata passed the other two nags, and Sasanof, who
also shaped like a good stayer, battled into third
place.
Punters.were not really justified in accepting so
short a price as 11 to two about Shepherd King, see-
ing that he was a maiden six-year-old. In England
he ran 16 times without winning, and had started
about eight times in Australia without proving him-
self nearly as good a horse as he looked. It was
notorious among horsey folk that the oft-defeated
animal was peculiarly nervous. A ticklish horse, in
fact, (.'lose contact with his neighbors in a crowded
field would put Shepherd Kirs clean off his gallop.
And the Caulfield Cup is a race in which mighty
good generalship is required to keep a slow beginner
from getting bumped, rubbed or otherwise troubled.
Bobby Lewis, Esq., the bloated capitalist of the pig-
skin, was the general atop of this sensitive favorite,
and doubtless lie arranged for Shepherd King to be
shepherded in a measure during the dangerous stages
of the journey. Given a good position as he
entered the straight he was bound to win, it was
said. His light weight (7st. 71b.) made it a cer-.
faulty. Yet the fact remained that the good thing
had been beaten five-and-twenty times.
It seems that one English horse or other can win
any big handicap or w.f.a. prize just now. In the
Met. it would have been Polycrates if it hadn’t been
Quinologist. In the Caulfield Cun race the name of
an Australian horse was never shouted. For nearly a
mile imported Sunbury made the running, and when
he began to tire imported Polycrates and Aides were
in front. At the final turn Shepherd King joined
them, so there were three imported horses in the
lead until the ultimate winner shot out. Strangely
enough, the only two English horses to disgrace them-
selves on this occsion were the heavily-backed stable
companions Torbane and Lavendo. The lightweight
got a very bad start. This was bound to be nearly
fatal to a horse’s chance if the 12 furlongs were going
to be run in 2min. 33[Sec., which is record time for a
Caulfield Cup. As for poor Lavendo, he looked sadly
infirm before the race. Torbane also is an unsound
horse, and the chances are that neither was suffici-
ently hard in condition to win the race as it was run.
But if Torbane can do strong work during the inter-
val he might have an outside chance for Melbourne'
('up, seeing that he showed stamina in his English
races. He put up a good performance also when he
won the Coongy Handicap on the Wednesday. His
running last Saturday was rather too poor to be true.
Amata was the heroine of the race. The little
mare was giving the winner 231 b., and was not so
forward in condition. Amata is the nearest approach
to a Wakeful that we have got at present, for she
comes of the same Musket stock, which improves with
age. Wakeful never ran in public until she was a
4- nor was she ever tried over a longer'
distance than a mile until she was a 5-year-old. Then
she ran second for the Caulfield Cup with 9st. up,
and won the Sydney Cup under 9st. 71b. Amata
ran only twice as a 3-year-old, and didn't begin to
be a remarkable little mare until the autumn of her
5- career. Her third for the Autumn Stakes
at Randwick last April was her first attempt to go
12 furlongs. There is now no visible reason why this
good little bit of stuff should not shine as a stayer
and run a great race for the Melbourne Cup. If she
were only a little bigger she would seem to have the
best of chances. As it is—well, the mare’s admirers
can claim that she won the Newmarket with Bst 81b
up, which was a lot more than Wakeful carried when
sfte won it. Anyone looking at Amata after her great
performance last Saturday could see that she was
callable of improvement before Melbourne Cup is run
She meets Shepherd King on 121 b. better terms, and
may beat him.
* * * *
Bobby Lewis, who steered Shepherd King
home, won his first Cup in all his 27 years’ riding
Before the meeting he said that if he won he
would get out of the saddle and have a fortune to
sit on for the rest of his days.
* * * #
One day last week veteran Byron Moore
waited on the Vic. Chief Secretary to protest, with
all the indignation his natural urbanity is capable
of, against the statement (made in the Leg. Assem-
bly) that the Y.R.C. had in no way been of any benefit
to Victoria. The V.R.C. secretary quoted figures to
show that the racing club was a large taxpayer, a
munificent subscriber to war funds, a useful investor
in war loans and so forth. But, strangely enough,
he omitted to mention the commercial service which
the Y.R.C. has rendered to the State that granted
it the leasehold of Flemington in the long ago. It
has given the Melbourne Cup meeting the biggest
advt. of any annual social “function” in this
hemisphere. Within the past half-century this one
race has attracted hundreds of thousands of visitors
from beyond the State, and thus been a wonderful
source of railway revenue to the Government. That’s
how the V.R.C. has benefited Victoria, and Byron
Moore has managed the advertising department.
* * * *
“0.K.”: At the approaching Cup Meeting
bookmakers’ tickets will be taxed, and punters must
beware lest their odds are reduced 50 per cent, to
cover the tax of 2| per cent, or less. The rule with
all other sorts of retailers has been to “pass it on,”
and the hawkers of odds are bound to follow suit. ■
But a punter who wants to back Lambskin for a race
has only himself to blame if he takes the first price
that s offered. He is pretty certain to be able to get
a much better one in another part of the Ring.
Also, he is a hasty ass, in most cases, if he backs his
fancy within 10 minutes of the opening of the betting.
If it happens that his fancy is an outsider, more or
less, he had better postpone his investment until five
minutes before the race, by which time Ikey Mo will
be growing anxious to lay against the despised ones,
and will offer as much as 15 to 1 against Lambskin
if he could safely afford to lay 33’s. Probably he will
have found some fiat who accepted 5 to 1 about this
same Lambskin half an hour earlier. Whatever price
the average holiday punter may get about his fancy,
the chances are that it will be less than he sees
quoted in the newspaper report next day. The news-
paper usually reports the most liberal s.p’s that
were offered on the ground, and these, except in the
case of a strong first favorite, are almost certain to
be longer than the prices offered at the time the hasty
greenhorn invested his quid, or than the prices that
ever were, offered by the majority of the licensed
cormorants. The discrepancy, as a rule, between the
price the greenhorn gets and the price which the
newspapers tell him he ought to have obtained about
the victorious outsider, or semi-outsider, is so great
that he might be cordially advised to confine his fool-
ishness to s.p. investments at a betting-shop in town
if it were not a ridiculous fact that the s.p. merchant
usually limits his price to 10 to 1 against anything.
A punter on the course can at least indulge in dreams
of the 15 to 1 which he didn't get about the last
winner, whereas the s.p. punter in town knows that
he never can get anvthing better than 10 to 1 against
Lambskin, save on the most special occasions. It is
his fate to be always robbed by one bookmaker or
another, because the State Government denies him
the right to bet with a respectable tote. A licensed
machine would give him two chances of a dividend on
each investment and charge him 10 per cent, on his
fair winnings. Think of that! Fair winnings less
10 per cent. ! The tote pays 9to 1 on a 10 to 1
chance, or 180 to 1 on a 200 to 1 chance. Ikey Mo
may be reckoned to lay 6 or 7 to 1 on what should
be a 10 to 1 chance, and as for rank outsiders in
minor handicaps—well, his range of prices never
reaches beyond 25 to 1 on the course.
* * * *
“0.K.” : Ikey Mo’s latest device for keep-
ing the tote at bay is too painfully funny. I am
tickled to death by it. A few of the Confederated
Bookmakers are catering for the public demand for
“place” betting. “Whv continue to agitate for the
tote, which pays a dividend on two horses only,
whilst there are nice, kind bookmakers who pay
dividends on three horses?” The humor of Ikey’s
query lies in the awful wickedness of the odds he
lays on his “place” book. I sampled them on
Saturday. Instead of offering the regulation fourth
of the odds that you could get about Green Cap,
Uael Locin, Cetigne, Canzone, etc., from a “straight
out” bookie, these “place” merchants offered only
a 6th, 7th, Bth, or 10th. And they were booking-
hundreds of wagers on these preposterous terms.
Amata’s price is said to have been 50 to 1 in some
parts of the ring. The place books offered 4 to 1.
or 5 to 1 at the most. They are the champion rob-
bers. The old original Ikevs are nhilanthropists
compared with them.
American Tom McMahon trying to find
Jim Tracey at the Sydney Stadium.
Months ago The Bulletin suggested that
Mo should erect a monument to Randwick horse-
trainer Paddy Nolan. Jt now advocates a temple in
which Ike should be compelled to worship, because
Nolan produces more long-priced winners than any
half-dozen others combined. He did it twice at the
A.J.C. Spring meeting with Common Law and Agin-
court, and on Saturday Maid of Seville, at a nominal
price of 25 to 1, stoushed the opposition in the Farm
Stakes at Warwick Farm. The explanation of this
unhappy business is that Nolan’s stable is practically
a non-betting concern, most of the patrons racing for
the sport. Such a one was the late Mr. Hebden, who
always had a big string in work and was never guilty
of_ investing a bob. Consequently all the nags were
triers all the time. Maid of Seville, the latest one of
Nolan’s to give the public a smack on the pocket and
make Israel rejoice, is by imported Murillo out of
Maid of Lancaster, and a three-year-old.
* * * *
Frank McGrath’s horse Plenty won the
Warwick Handicap on Saturday, but' the success
was not out of his turn. Last season at Randwick
Plenty came from the clouds and won the Members’
Handicap when few people beyond his connections
knew he was on the course. On Saturday he was
second favorite to the disappointing Royal Parade.
He didn’t have anything to spare at the finish, as
another heart-breaker in Dollar Dictator was only
a head behind. Chances are that if the latter’s
jock, had not been 31b. overweight the animal’s
head might have been pushed in front. That one-
time good mare Firm was a runner, but could get
no nearer than sixth. Not so long ago an event of
the kind would have looked a moral for her with
9 stone. On Saturday she was not even in the
betting.
A big wad was deposited on Lutana in the
Warwick Farm Maiden Handicap on Saturday, about
£3OO, it is stated, coming from the stable alone.
Fours were secured about the animal at the outset,
but at the finish 6 to 4 was the best available.
There w'ere 20 runners, and in the closing stages of
the flutter Lutana’s supporters suffered from severe
palpitation of the purse. The 16 to 1 chance Court
Favorite stuck to her so tenaciously that only a
head separated, them at the finish. Lutana is in
Cook’s stable, which had so much of a boom a while
back that had a goat been pushed on to the track
labelled with the Cook brand the public would have
gone bald-headed for it. A while back Lutana
belonged to W. and F. A. Moses, and Saturday’s
was her first run for .her new owner, Arthur Earn-
shaw.
About the best bet of the day at Warwick
Farm last Saturday was Orsaka in the Pace Welter.
The mare a week earlier ran a good second in a
similar event at City Tattersall’s meeting, but this
time was allowed to start at seven to one. She was
in charge before a furlong was covered, and won with
the bit in her teeth by three lengths. Carine, in the
same stable as Lutana, over whom a barrelful of
money was won earlier in the afternoon, was second.
Carine had not had a dash for some time. She
may be worth bearing in mind for something a bit
bigger than a Pace Welter round about Christmas
time.
X- * * *
The 12-year-old Sunlike, a winner of the
A.J.C. Villiers Stakes, bounded to the front in the
Liverpool Mile at Warwick Farm on Saturday and
stayed there. Sunlike was not raced until he reached
five years and has been leniently treated in the
meantime. John “Baron” Brown seldom keeps a
nag going until it grows ancient, most of his horses
being retired to the stud early in life. But an excep-
tion had to be made with Sunlike. He belongs to
the neuter gender.
X*. * *
Dead at 84, Etienne de Mestre, ail old-
time owner and trainer whose name will live long
in the annals of the Australian turf. When the
first Melbourne Cup was run in ’6l De Mestre led
in the winner—Archer—and did it again when
Archer won again the following November. Five
years later he won with Tim Whiffler, trained Ches-
ter for James White in ’77 and took another Cup in
’7B for himself with Calamia. Other great horses
lie either owned or trained for others were Robin
Hood, Navigator, Dagworth and Robinson Crusoe.
But pastoral speculation in Bananaland was another
business, and in this he had a rough passage. The
old man weighed out at Moss Vale (N.S.W.), and
when he went Australia parted with one of the last
survivors of the old school of sportsmen.
Probably the oldest of Australians addicted
to the turf is Billy Lancaster, of Randwick (Syd-
ney). When Archer won the first Melbourne Cups
in ’6l and ’62, Billy was among the perspiring
thousands; and he boasts of not having missed one
of the subsequent 53. At fourscore and four the
old man is packing up to see his 56th.
* * * *
“E. J. 8.” : At a Broken Hill pub a few
weeks ago I heard the horse-owning proprietor tell
Charlie the yardman that if he could bring himself
down a- couple of stone he might give him a mount
on Weary Willie in the Bunyip Stakes. He added
that the quickest method of wasting was to bury
yourself in the manure-heap. Three hours later a
man had occasion to tip a drayload on to the heap,
and if the tail end of the dray had not struck Charles
on the brow he might have won the Bunyip Stakes
in a canter. The poor but. ambitious cove was
sweating in two colors when I gathered him up and
took him away to the doctor. He put on too much
condition in the hospital to get the mount on
Weary Willie.
* * * *
“Mujik”: The Wellington (M.E.) race
meeting set down to commence last Saturday had
to be postponed on account of incessant ran. This
must mean that water was falling out of the skies
in oceans, rivers, lakes and cataracts. Mere rain
in showers, sheets and squalls would be a mere
nothing. I went to the races there once—about 15
miles in a crawling train—and found more liquid
about and hurrying down than would have floated
old Noah off Ararat. And it blew as if the Devil
was working a 10,000-h.p. pair of bellows. When-
ever a lull occurred they worked a race off, and
the animal that managed to escape drowning was
the winner, whereupon the crowd which had been
hanging on to the grandstand with both hands and
feet raised a thin, watery cheer like unto the pgeans
of joy that are heard at a wowsers’ picnic when the
lemonade arrives. Half-way through the proceedings
17 women were blown out of the stand a.nd had to
be retrieved by the Foorce, all of whom were after-
wards decorated with the medal of the Royal
Humane Society for conspicuous gallantry. I dunno
what happened afterwards, but th» papers said next
day that the meeting opened in delightful Spring
weather and that the secretary had been presented
with a private whaleboat and 4623 lifebelts as a
mark of esteem in case it happened again. Oh yes,
it rains a bit over there.
Heavyweights Tom McMahon (U.S.A.)
and Jim Tracey (Bananaland) were in session at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday, and after the argu-
ment had proceeded to the bitter end 'the referee
gave a ruling in favor of Thomas. There was
nothing else to do, anyhow. The imported gentle-
men unloaded heavy wallops and waded in to deliver
more. Jim unpacked light-weight samples and fled
from the wrath they provoked. It is a pity there
is not more flesh on the Bananalander. At full
length he stretches to 6ft. 4in., but leaves the
scales just short of 12st. Jim grew the wrong way.
“Bad Australian”: Sam Me Yea, Sam
Langford and that other lil’ coon, Harry Wills,
aided and abetted by Pat Bradley, Kid Lewis
and one or two more gentlemen learned in the
lucrative art of bash, are raging through South
America, proffering a dirty left and a fairly insani-
tary right to any citizen ready to weigh in with a
wad. 1 dunno what’s going to happen to our own
Jack Murray, the “champion” of S.A. Jack, after
the complete disestablishment of Ferdy Priano’s
banana cart at the Casino in Buenos Aires, and, after
resting for a _ time, initiated “conversations” with
Rojas, the Chilian champion. It was reported that
as a result of these conversations Murray had
agreed to give Rojas the chance of closing on the
championship on condition that the scrap took place
in Mendoza during the winter. As Rojas is reputed
a mighty man before the referee, Murray gambled on
the chance of the road between Santiago and Men-
doza being blocked, and figured that Rojas would be
forced to .shin across on snowshoes, arriving in such
condition as to be easy meat; but the winter having-
proved a very mild one, Jack doesn’t seem to have
insisted on Rojas’s attendance. Now that the black
cloud and its silver lining hangs over the land,
Murray will probably tuck his tinpot “championship”
under his derrick and take to the woods till the
cloud rolls by.
* *■ * *
When Buck Crouse got both feet on
Yankee soil again he started to explain that the
reason he failed to stop Darcy was because he was
short of the necessary punch. “I knocked him to his
knees, but I couldn’t finish him.” They are hot
stuff, some of these pugs.
* * * *
North Sydney, which crumpled up for 14
runs in the first round of Sydney premiership
cricket, and is getting a wallop in the second round,
was one time the greatest of premiership teams.
Successes in 1904-5, 1907-8, and 1912-13 won out-
right the Rawson Cup. The club’s Second XI were
topnotchers for several seasons, too. But nowadays
North Sydney can only just manage to scratch
together a first-grade eleven, and although a second-
grade team was entered it has since vanished. But,
heavens, what a team of soldiers it lias put in the
field !
J. Stevens, of Waverlcy, .who is making an
early rattle among batsmen in Sydney premiership
cricket, was the best of last season's junior bowlers.
So far the tall youth has taken five wickets for Si
against Western Suburbs, and five fm 'll against
Gordon—a start good enough to justif> a look for
bigger efforts.
* * * #
Although it is 32 years since Peter
McAlister, the Victorian batsman, started to bang the
ball about in senior company, he is still going strong
As he is only 47 —a year older than the N.S.W.
juvenile, Syd Gregory—there is no telling what he
may do within the next half-century. Peter was Id
when the Williamstown captain told him to put the
pads on. Four years later he transferred to East
Melbourne, and in 27 seasons has scored something
like 11,000 runs for the club. He had a moderately-
successful trip to England, and against English
bowling - in England and Australia lias made 1414
runs, averaging 28. Peter lias made three centuries
against Ma, two against S.A., and one against Eng-
land, but if anyone wants to know how many miles
he has run between wickets he must ask the
youngster himself.
One of the greatest Rugby players that
ever crowded himself into a jersey died at Welling-
ton (M.L.) last week. He was Davy Gage, and his
name is famous wherever the game is played. He
learned the alphabet of Rugby at Te Ante (native)
College, the cradle of many football giants, including
the great Tom Ellison. About a year after leaving
the Hawkes Bay institution for Wellington he was
shining amongst the province’s representative 15,
one of his memorable games with that combination
being against Stoddart’s English team. A year
later Gage went to England with the Maori team, and
on that tour he developed his wonderful work as a
half-back, although originally he had been scheduled
for the full-back’s place. There is little doubt that
he was the best all-round player in that team, and
Ellison, who captained it, said of him that “his
equal in defence play the world had not seen. He
was a most scientific kick and a perfect brick wall
to pass.” Gage was one of the Maoriland team that
played in Australia during the season of 1893, under
the captaincy of Ellison, and when, the Queenslanders
crossed the Tasman three years later Gage was
skipper of the M.L. team that gathered in Wellington
to ask them whaffor. He was only 48 when the long
whistle went.
* * * *
Champion, Maoriland’s renowned swimmer,
is bringing up a daughter in the way she should
paddle. Meanwhile she’s at the toddle stage, rising-
five years. The other day, at the Auckland schools’
championships meeting, she “knocked ’em” by the
way she swam up and down the baths and dived like
a small seagull. Auckland says “Rabbits to Annette
Kellerman!”
“Petrol” : N. S. Wales Navigation Dept.,
apparently alarmed at the growing frequency of
explosions of benzine, has notified that any motor-
launch coming up for survey for the first time after
-Tan. 1, 1917, must be driven by paraffin—mineral oil
and not mineral spirit. This follows the lead of
the Board of Trade which, like the N. S. Wales
Dept., has a tender regard for vested interests.
Clearly if it is dangerous to burn petrol in one
launch it is dangerous to risk it in another.
“Trot”: Yes, that’s right about the left-
hander when he is good being very good (B.
12/10/U6). It is especially true in tennis. Ichiya
Kumagae, the Japanese wizard with the racquet,
who is showing the Yanks a point or two in the
game, doesn’t use his right hand. Ich.’s long suit
seems to he the great power he gets behind the ball
and his control of long drives. Likewise Ich. has
caused Uncle Sam to think long and hard about what
Ich. would look like as American champion. In a
match at Rhode Island last month the Jap outed
the American champion very promptly. The fifth
set was a physical test purely, and the little man
ran the other off his feet.
* * * *
Hannes Kolehmainen, the great distance
runner, met his master the other day at New York,
and for the first time on an outdoor track found out
what it felt like to run second. At the end of a
five-mile go H. H. Holden, a runner of whom little
was previously known, had enough pace to make the
Finn drop astern. At the same gathering the inter-
national champion Homer Baker was well beaten
over half a mile by one Scudder, who scudded in
with five yards to spare. It happens to them all in
time. Glory and then the shelf.
“Te Pana”: Tickling, practised by
Tahitian natives as a method of shark catching, is
eclipsed by the Tongan system of enticing the grey
nurse into the larder. When the cutter is becalmed
the crew leans over the rail and beats two half cocoa-
nut-shells together, at the same time chanting “Hina,
hina.” If the lawyer is in the vicinity he will cruise
round the boat several times, gradually getting nearer,
and finally making a dash for the piece of tapioca
that is dangled from the end of a stick. That’s
where he falls in. A sunken coil of rope having a
slip-knotted loop supported by the rod is given a
sharp pull and the noose fastens itself just for’ard
of the doi’sal-fin. On three different occasions I’ve
supped soup made from the tail of a “nurse” landed
in this way, and I can confidently recommend it.


To Have a Knowledge
of Boxing — -=: -
should be the aim of every man. In the hour of need such a
knowledge proves one’s greatest friend. Are you able to take your
own part—to defend yourself against the attacks of rough and
aggressive men? A scientific knowledge of boxing will enable you to
deliver a sound punishment to any inexperienced bully who may cross
your path—to assert your manliness in the hour of need.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST
m
—teach it in a thorough, scientific and practical
manner. Now don’t get the idea that I teach you only
the theory, because that’s not so. Under my guidance
you will learn how to make all the “hits,” “stops” and
“moves” of the world’s most scientific boxers.
You’ve no excuse for remaining crude and inexperienced,
a good target for the first bully who torments you. Let
me make you a cool, determined, scientific boxer, with a
substantial punch and effective guard—a manly man,
well able to look after yourself and win the respect of
others.
What a delightful pastime you’ll find my tuition! What
a valuable exercise for body and brain!
Write your name and address across this advertisement,
and post it to me, and I will send you my interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which tells
all about my methods, tuition fees, etc. Please send
three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
548 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Smoke a LLOYD’S
(LONDON) BRIAR
and be assured of pipe satisfaction —of the
utmost enjoyment from your favorite tobacco.
4 It
48 Different Shapes
ALL ONE PRICE.
4/6
The mounts are of hall-marked silver, and
they are guaranteed not to crack or burn
within a reasonable time. They are
certainly most exceptional value.
m
No. 4
No. 9
No. 10
No. 3
A great variety of these pipes are illustrated
in my catalog."- Write for a free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SHELL
BENZINE
==&Tl€>!S
V
Solo
The Machine Supreme
for Australian Roads
or
Sidecar
Catalogue " L>" with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. "i:. Russell St., Melbourne
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.' Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BUY YOUR NEW SHOES
at the Rigney Shoe Stores, and prove for
yourself just what the name “liIGNEY” on
a shoe means in comfort, style and service.
We illustrate a choice, All-Patent Enamel
Kid Bal. The design, material and work-
manship are alike perfect. Also in Derby.
The famous Paris last. Patents or Tans.
Price - 37(6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG,
' .
m
'm
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
m.
wBBBm
J*
nfife
•■?£'sin kWT wta mfc
.
mm
■
,x.&&M£}j£ sS
ISm
■-
~..
gjI3PBB
sg^S
fflfagsp
//assSKSaS
rfSSIIP
rs
.
mm;
:. m
afe&gjß
mMBM/KKm
l!p
Is
s,
N
X.
W iWui
Fir <
I. . ■*<%»
, ">»
■ ; '■ t; ■
v * A
-a-'
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 2 6
////a
'///
V/
i
' »'*s
VmmtM.
'>>
'*•' if:.;..
's>
//
: -- •
./ f£M £/.>»*
~Z-'
TO
s*pv» V
' - Z
S 9» v.
/’■ -vr'-v
The “Stockman
Riding Boofei
1516
''.•tic- Sides ; and Double
... Tags} Dust and Water-
;Jly^pf; light, comfortable, .'
pull—
father “Stock- —
. .Australian: horsem an
—should be Ob- j
.tainable rn all sizes. a
%tJBl£. rDon’tfj&jfa. ~ ’ I
Size 1 ; ~d
»’>' «£s<.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty.
—• “ Outfit*er* by Mail ” ” ~ ~
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
i


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eve.
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sate for
children.
ĥ
Carters
“lITTLE
IVER
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
The
carburettor, or
r l ?r^^ 3^,^« SU P l>^^ on
l tiy Engines works^
perfectly with
kerosene, and in small\
size Engines, 4 to 20 b.h.p’
will produce the cheapesA
power of any engine suitable!
tor general use.
Gives immediate start on
benzine —no waiting fori
vaporizer to heat - noj
«?- n £ erous °P en flame.
Without doubt the latest
and the best. 1
Ask for particulars.
International Harvester Co
of Aus. Pty. Ltd.
? J r i^ a J ne ~ S J dn rv-Melbourne
Adelaide Perth
Launceston.
175)
SAMPLE
BOTTLE
Dr. Parker s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy.
WONDERFUL RECOVERY TO HEALTH
AND STRENGTH.
I suffered terrible agony from Uric Acid
loisonmg All the joints wei'e swollen, stif-
fened and inflamed, and were becoming dis-
torted My head ached incessantly ; I suffered
remW mS' DR - PARKER’S GREAT
INDIAN RHEUMATIC REMEDY acted like
a charm. 1 am free from pain, my skin is
clear and my appetite good. I shall recom-'
mend your treatment to other sufferers.—
Iq U w 62,‘ atef ully, MABEL LYNKLATER,
68 West Street, North Sydney.
Write to-day for Free Sample and
Book (postage 3d.) to F. PARKER,
111 Baking House, Rawson Place,
Sydney.
Recipe to Darken Grey Hair
This Home-made Mixture Darkens Grey
Hair and Relieves Dandruff.
To a half-pint of water add :
Day Itum
Orlex Compound a 'small box
m e f Ue all si ™I )le ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost
oniT X f J h T y ? urself - , A PPIy to the scalp
once a day tor two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used.
A half-pint should be enough to darken
the grey hair and relieve dandruff. It does
g&SgJSsj I makcs haS *§
TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
| > eturned disabled soldiers.
r * V .Single Men with Thorough Farm
Training who are disabled in upper bodv
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Overseers in Solomon Islands bv writ-
ing to ISLAND INSPECTOR
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
' Sydney.
fg
■ A£l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’ WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Free.
A.N.A.Sewin? Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne: 7 Arcade
Adelaide; Baird s Arcade, Perth ; 39 George Street’
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart ’
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress.
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
conies into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, never were shoes more in
. evidence. .So the smart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of the new Bostock styles
for the season, since these are more captivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new, short-fronted French shape which
makes every foot look so arched and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling" finish
to one's new walking suit or gown. And it is only
one shoe amongst many equally desirable.
Bostock styles now on view at the leading stores.
Bostock No.
Q 9583
hf
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
830
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock” on the soles.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Bostock s Black Suede Liquid Cleaner
FOR A VARIETY OF USES.
Black Suede Shoes equal to new—stains Tan Shoes, and Colored Kid-Top
Boots, black. •
IN 4oz. BOTTLES: PRICE 1/-
BO STOCK* S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney
1
Shampoo Sachets
For cleansing and beautifying the hs
only wet shampoo that helps the hair
British made.
3d. packet everywhere.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
ir. The
to grow.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
HA
'Ncubatp
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
Ihe “HATCHO” 15-egg* incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
METAL POLISH
Cleans more brass signs, zinc signs,
brass railings, door knobs and door
plates than all other polishes com-
because it is the quickest and
safest to use. Sold by all Grocery,
Hardware and Drug Stores.
Look for Photo on Can (7
ghf
The Federal Building: Society.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1916.
Presented to the Shareholders at a meeting held in the Board Hoorn, Collins House 800 366 Collins
Street, Melbourne, at 12.30 p.m. on Thursday, 26th October 1016 House, 360 366 Collins
AuditecH—- lreCtolS preSent herewith thdr Tweltth Report and Statement of Accounts duly
The net profit for the year is . . £13,430 4 r,
Balance from last year .. . . 3,065 8 5
• • £16,495 12 10
Making a total of . .
Your Directors propose to deal with this sum as follows-
Out of the profits of the year the Directors on 28th April last paid an interim Divi-
dend for half-year ending 31st March, 1916, at the rate of 7 per cent per annum £4 480 0 0
They now propose to pay out of the year’s profits a further Dividend for the half-yea? ’
ending 30th September, 1916, at the rate of 8 per cent dm aim™
together a Dividend of 71 per cent, for the year P ’
To Reserve Fund (making it £51,000) ..
Carrying forward .. .. .. .. . ]
5,120
6,000
895 12 10
Aridf H ‘ appointed . to flll the vacancy on the Board cause by of 2 Mr!
Messrs. Joseph Major Pratt and James H. Riley, who retire from the Board in accordance with the
rules, have been duly nominated for re-election. accoiuance wirn me
re-electfon. etmng audltorS ’ Messrs - °- H - Tuckett and W. N. Robertson, have also been nominated for
Melbourne, 12th October, 1916. a. SCOT^LSS^"'
BALANCE-SHEET FOR THE YEAR ENDINCi 3Qth SEPTEMBER, 1916.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Capital £128,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in Society’s
business) 45,000 0 0
Repayments in advance.. .. 368 12 9
Deposits and accrued interest .. 64,933 18 1
Balance. . . . £16,495 12 10
Less interim divi-
dend paid 28th
April, 1916 .. 4,480 0 0
12,015 12 10
£250,318 3 8
_ ASSETS.
By Loans on mortgage
and balances
owing by pur-
chasers of pro-
perties upon
terms .. ..£246,086 6 3
„ Arrears . . . . 1,835 1 11
. £247,921 8 2
„ Properties m possession (at valu-
ation as taken over from the
old Society) 121 17 6
„ Insurance premiums .. .. 27 1 4
„ Bank credit .. .. ~ 2,247 16 8
£250,31S 3 8
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To interim dividend paid 28th Apri
•£ 23,188 17 7
By balance at 30th Sep-
tember, 1915 ..£12,545 8 5
„ Less dividend
paid 29th
Oct., 1915 £4,480 0 0
„ Lesi trans-
ferred to
reserve . . 5,000 0 0
; £9,480 0 0
£3,065 8 5
„ Interest . . . . . . . . 20,040 2 7
~ Fines and commission, etc. .. 83 6 7
*'23.188 17
A. SCOTT, Secretary.
C. H. TUOKETT, F.C.P.A. )
WM. N. ROBERTSON. F.C.P.A. I
Auditors.
The Queensland Deposit Bank and
Building Society, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Business Profit from Added to Nominal
Sept., Profit. Sales. Reserves. Reserves.
1904.. £462 £332 £794 £12,353
V y J
1905.. £l3B 138 12,491
1906.. 86 S 6 12,577
Loss on Sales.
1907.. 102 £43 59 12,636
1908.. 282 262 20 12,656
1909.. 103 103 12,759
1910.. 117 117 12,876
1911.. 334 334 13,210
1912.. 673 673 13,883
1913.. 841) 846 14,729
1914.. 967 967 15,696
1915.. j. 204 1204 16,900
1916.. 810 —• 810 17,710
This is really an undertakery, and has been
wearing weepers ever since 1892. Its troubles
included Scotch depositors and no end of
unproductive assets —the Wickham Park
and the Moreton Park and the Norman Park
and the Sherwood Park and Heaven knows
how many other estates which for years
produced nothing except gradually increas-
ing rates. Arrangements and rearrange-
ments had to be made with creditors. Last
February the final deposit was paid off;
now all that remains to be rolled away
from the door of the • sepulchre is the
accrued interest, and there is enough cash
to do it with. This is how the slow funeral
has proceeded this century :
Deposits, Property,
.... Capital. etc. Advances, etc. Cash.
1900. . £39,759 £50,614 £93,571 £4,900
1905.. 47,291 35,589 94,478 • 757
1910.. 47,305 27,043 86,682 688
1914.. 47,305 19,863 71,776 11 088
1915.. 47,305 17,936 65,681 16,460
1916.. 47,307 12,894 63,484 14,427
After paying all liabilities the co. will thus
have about 13s. 6d. per share, provided the
properties and advances now on the books
are worth 20s. in the £.
* * * *
The Brisbane Permanent Building
and Banking Co. :
. „ Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
io'ivj’ Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1 994 -- 8 i P-c. =£3899 £284 £44 £18,650
* 995 -- HU m 16 > 322 5,195
1906. . 1,353 Nil 542 811 6,006
£24,393 capital written off and added to
reserves .. . . .. . . 30 399
£22,874 written off properties .. 7 525
lanl" HoS 2 P- c - = 1746 IABI 6^568
1908.. 2,633 2 „ „ 1746 1,632 5,823
1909.. 3,800 3 „ „ 2620 828 352 6,175
1P1?-- 5,716 4 „ „ 3495 - 2221 8,396
1911-• 5,957 ” ” -3714 550 1693 10,089
1912.. 7,3/0 4| „ „ 4151 3219 13,308
191“ • • 7 > 824 5 „ „ 4369 3455 16,763
1914.. 9,915 5 „ ~ 4369 5546 22,309
1915.. 8,899 6 „ „ 5308 3591 25,900
1916.. 10,624 6 „ „ 5308 5316 31,216
Transferred to capital, £10,454 .. 20,762
Don’t very often find a co. that is paying
only 6 p.c. divs. transferring reserves to
capital. Generally the process is adopted
because the directors are paying at least
10 p.c. and don’t think it prudent to put up
the rate any higher. The only explanation
oftered is that in 1906, on the revaluation of
assets, capital was written down from 20s.
to 16s. 6d. per share, and the directors now
want to restore it. Apparently they
couldn’t wait till they could do the lot, so
by a roundabout way they are lifting the
shares up 18 pence. It seems hardly worth
while. One thing is certain. Cos. will in
future be much less inclined than they have
been in the past to write off capital as lost.
\V hen you have written capital off you have
to show recoveries as profit; and being
nominally profit you have to pay taxes on
it. . But though it scarcely seems worth
while to restore 18 pence,, this paper isn’t
prepared to throw any heavy bricks. The
directors have been exercising .a lot of
restraint in the matter of dividends; plenty
of Boards would have rushed up the rate
to 8 p.c. at least. And, after all, in a
couple of recent years the divisible profits
in excess of the dividend have amounted to
niore than the £10,454 now to be capitalised.
It is far better for the co. to hang on to this
money, issuing shares for it, than to scatter
it in dividends.
As to the future—who knows? Every-
thing- depends on management. Nobody who
doesn’t know and isn’t satisfied with the
management will, of course, touch the shares.
Ihe co. s capital and reserves total £121,297.
dl . as 1262,602 on mortgage.
Whether it has done it prudently or not
balance-sheet figures can’t tell you. The
directors admit that they have lent £66,535
during the past year. That may be all good
business—all depends on the view the direc-
tors take of our prospects. For its own
part, this paper is rather surprised that that
volume of satisfactory business should have
become available to this co. during the year.
put depositors needn’t worry, anyhow. There
£iQ^ a nnn £4 f ,( i 0 u ° f liquid assets against the
±195.00° of debt; and the £147,000 of debt
which isn t covered by liquid assets is sup-
ported by £273.000 of mortgages and sundry
small items The principal thus looks all
I'iglit; and the interest looks very right, too,
because, so far as one can ascertain, very
little of the co. s money has been advanced
on anything but houses and other revenue-
producing- properties.
* * * #
Occidental, Cobar, finished its half-year
iateiy During the term 5414 tons of ore
trave „<96.5410z. gold, valued at £11.858
Ihe average value was 12.953dwt. and the
recovery 80 p.c. Labor troubles and break-
down ot machinery were accountable for 88
days stoppage. The 5414 tons cost, under
all headings (including £1137 for deprecia-
tion), approximately £13,290 to treat, and
that is perilously near 50s. per ton, which is
™l/ P bit over the odds. The new level at
1 40 ft. is being opened up and is quite satis-
factory, averaging about the same as the
lei el above. Taken all round it appears as
though the easy-going shareholders own a
very fair property, but a poor management.
jwwvvP Iment 1 ment , 1 wor , ic > 3 30 far behind that
£20,000 worth or. machinery and plant is
idle half its tune for the want of ore


Take a Kodak
on every tour
The happy incidents connected ' with
a Saturday-afternoon excursion, a week-
end trip, or an extended holiday can
be enhanced and kept in*your memory
for ever by the aid of Autographic
Kodak pictures.
Besides, you need a Kodak to send snap-
shots to your soldier friend at the front.
Autographic Kodaks —all of which are thoroughly
efficient, vet surprisingly simple to use —cost from
30/- to ils/2|-
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior takes splendid
pictures, 2\ x inches. Price
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is the most
popular camera in the world. For postcard pictures
—x 3j inches. Price ;fes/10/-
Ask for the latest Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.,
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 346 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, Wellington, N,Z. 3 Horne Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 7(i
Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
;s
HI;
m
m
■
i ■
:
earn
a m
■
i HK
:
/
*
M
m
W»
mmsm
iMisiPMai
f : •;■ i
I
• . . .. .
HP
■
-*4
The Mark of Superior
Motor-car Service.
99% Efficient
We have kept a record of every complaint, large and small, made
against the Series “N v ‘ Hupmobile. Our record to date from the time
the first Series “N” left the factory shows the Hupmobile to be 99 per
cent, efficient.
In other words, only .one car out of 100 developed the slightest
imperfection. We defy any mechanical thing, manufactured by hundreds
and used and abused by hundreds of people in every climate under the
sun under every road condition imaginable, to surpass that record.
This record is significant to the automobile biiyer who values his
time, money and peace of mind. Our records, proving our efficiency
claims, are open to inspection.
BRIEF HUPMOBILE SPECIFICATIONS.
Hup mobile Models: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater, sedan, and 5-seater and 2-seater with
detachable winter tops. Motor: Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke.
(32in. x 55in.). Transmission: Three forward speeds and reverse; multiple disc clutch.
Rear Axle floating: type, spiral bevel sear, cam shaft and crank shaft bearings bronze
shell, babbit lined. Hong wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 131 in. on 7-seater).
Tyres: 880 x 120 in’/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120 m/m or 35in. x 41in.
on 7-seater. Electric starting and lighting; ventilating, rain vision screen; one-man
hood; quick-acting side curtains; door-curtain carriers; deep upholstery; speedometer;
robe rail, foot rail anti carpet in tonneau; non-skid tyres on rear; five demountable
rims; tyre carrier, pump, jack and full set of tools. Magneto ignition, wire wheels,
special colors, khaki hood and seat covers at small additional cost over list pine
of car.
Hupp Motor Car Corporation
Detroit, MicHig'an, U,S.A*
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney. *
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong,
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N,
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.


•:!! “Siy
I il<
!!!! H:! 3
m
ilii fill
llj |!jjj
l «•! a
fcs
!: {! ", ti
iiu Uh
m
He cannot bear the sight
of food
Eating produces Nausea, Heartburn, Acid
Risings in the Throat, Flatulence and Vomiting
undigested food. When he reads or applies
himself to business. his eyes ache and burn, and
he get pains in the head. His mind is listless
and memory impaired. The vigor of life has
departed—he sees no use in making an effort,
gives way to despair and is tired of life. But
Fishers
Phospherine
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC
at once attacks all these symptoms. One by one
they disappear and he feels a new man. Fishers
Phospherine energises the whole system and can
be taken with benefit by sufferers from Indigestion,
Acidity, Muscular Rheumatism, Backache, Mal-
aria, Headache, Brain Fag, Nervousness and
Neuralgia.
All Chemists and Stores.
1/- per Bottle. Four times the quantity, 2/6
Homoeopathic and Dispensing Chemists
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
deg T eeS of sou "d in eight
the fir«? to suit th/ . cha . ns ' ed b y a touch of
ne , nr.ger to suit the hearing on everv occasion
and for all stages of deafness occasion,
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
co -» A,,s t ra lasian Agents,
Bernard s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
I el. 391G City. SYDNEY. ’
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
/ /) If
The world-wide
popularity of
YARDLEY’S
EAU-DE-COLOGNE
est ab 1 1 shed when
George the Third was
King, is a tribute to
the skill and art of
Yardley, the famous
Bond Street perfumer
Done in London
since 1770.
8 Mew Bond S t ,
London
rw
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS.
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gh
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
'l'liis latest saddle of ours combines manv of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles—the
dipp.v pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, our
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points
the long girth straps and long flaps, it is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather girth, stirrup leathers
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and SURCINGLE. The
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5l-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
or any direct port
RING HEAD BRIDLE, with rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, JI /O post free for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/C.
Illustrated Catalogue Post tree.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers &, Harness Maßers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney.
The Tootal Guaranteed line of British-made Cotton Fabrics
TARANTULLE
for Dainty Home Sewn Lingerie
and Ba by Wear
YOU never regret
the time or money
spent in making
dainty lingerie or baby
wear if the material be
an tulle. This popular
\\ British fabric isremark-
fij ably fine and soft,
yet nothing can give
f' J greater satisfaction in
> wear and wash. Abso-
lutely free from dressing.
Name on Selvedge
40 ins. wide in 3 weigh’s>—
Standard 1/1-1 per yard
F'ne 1/6 „
Superfine 1/9 „ „
MADE IN ENGLAND
1 o be had from all
Good Class Stores
la.
n
7^
7
M
1
'cR)BRALCCS>
~ ~ ■■ TOOTALS GUARANTEE IT ■■■
Bes'd.
The home favourite for ladies and children.
Sof% supole, durable, easily done up without
starch. White, 12id. per yard. Colors and Prints,
per yard. Always see name on se!vedjje
OTHER TOOTAL
GUARANTEED LINES
TOOTAL PIQUE. Double width, soft and
supple. In white and colors.
TOOTAL SHIRTS FOR MEN. Ready to
wear, replaced free if they lose color.
TOOTAL SHIRTING for Ladies' and
Children’s Wear.—32 inches wide.
1-ISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS FOR LADIES
Self-white and indelible borders.
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS FOR MEN
Self-white and indelible borders.
TOOTAL CLOTH. The guaranteed velvet
fabric—more supple than side velvet.
Tootal Broadhurst Lee Company, Ltd., Manchester, England
Australian Agents : * sons ,fty. i . Finks Building,
_______ 5 . MELBOURNE, and York Street, SYDNEY
Uncemia
m
'J'IIE BLOOD is the energiser of the system. Upon its quality
ctepeuds the nourishment of every organ, every nerve-centre,
every muscle of the body.
1 oorness of Blood is called An-emia —girls, women and men
are all subject to it.
It manifests itself in breathlessness on slight exertion, pale
cheeks, lustreless eyes, depression and exhaustion.
If you have any of these symptoms, or are run-down and need
a tonic, take Iron ‘Jelloids’ to enrich the blood.
When the blood has been enriched and strengthened, Anaemia
is overcome—the symptoms give place to abundant vitality, rosy
cheeks, and a feeling of general ‘-fitness” and well-being.
~ , ® r ' Andrew Wilson wrote “ l mbroverished blood can be made rich and good
by means oj Iron 'Je.tods,' the most effective and desirable treatment"
A FORTNIGHT’S TRIAL (price 1/6) WILL CONVINCE YOU
F°r Anaemia In Women IKON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 2.
Reliable Tonic for Men IRON JELLOIDS' No. 2A.
For Growing Children IRON ‘JELLOIDS' No. 1.
... Obtainable at all Chemists, price 1/6, Large size 3i-
Manufactured only by The Jelloid’ Co.. 205. City Road. London. England.
(ienMciM'NV
litfew (Pronounced Jell-Lloyds)
V L
If any illustration appearing in THE
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no it IS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Tin Scratcher: Look here, brother, you
must do one of two things—either give up thinking
you are a socialist or knock oif cursing compulsion.
Voluntaryism means individualism; and you can’t
be an individualist and a socialist at the same time.
... .B. Allarat: You are standing on your head to
look at it. The real position is that it’s ive who
have done all the converting there has been. Keep
calm and right side up and stow yourself away
from boilers... . A.F.: Don’t crowd your lines like
that J.A.M.: Sorry; no use W.G.8.: Faint
humor. .. .R.8.A.: It wriggles and bumps weakly in
pursuit of an obvious idea.... Simplex: Insane
warble in halting verse.", . .P.-E. : Anaemic stuff. And
don’t try to rhyme “where” and “beer”... .F. 0.:
hat s wrong with you?” Couldn’t risk a guess.
Ko brand used in this office could produce a fantod
like that. .. .G.8.D,: Some grace, but not up....
C.L.: 587th attempt fails. Interesting to know, how-
ever, that Virgil was a Greek F.W.D.: Acrostic it
may be; idiotic it certainly is... .MacT. Jones: No
use M.T.A.N.: No “Clarion Call” about that.
More suggestive of an ungreased wheelbarrow....
A.G.J.: Too frail... .J.S.: You seem to have no idea
of rhythm at all E.J.A.J.: Not nearly up
Bluebird: You won't pronounce the loud benediction
here... .11.E.W.: Neither melody nor force D. 0.:
“ J °.V of Sacrifice” empty of delight.... Bill Adams:
\\ illiam, stick to winning Waterloos. You can’t
write verse.... Kemo: You don’t make much of it.
Camara: Fact that Miss Ritz was sitting down
noted.... A.R.C.: All said before... .C.S.: “Cast
Away doesn’t move U5....E.0.: Yarn unconvincing.
-...James D.: No interest in “Mick” Gucelia:
Poor stuff. . . .11.8. Y.: Promising, but not up. Watch
your metre and your rhymes—particularly your
rhymes... .J.T.N.: Couldn’t quite swim ashore....
J.A.V.S.: Bad bump in last verse spoiled its chance.
....II.ON.: Points good; but verse groans and
labors fearfully... .Lizard: Doctor yarn too long-
drawn out. .. . Ilirta: No hint of merit.... L.V.:
Awful A.G.S.: No life in it. . , .M.A.: Verse a bit
too crude....O.M.S.: Neither verse nor prose and
wholly lacking in ideas C.W.E.: Not well
handled. .. .C.L.G.: Your “Paccadilly” talks with a
Yankee accent.... Roslyn: Musical, but slight
A.J.A.: Verses sent give promise Myponga: Yarn
doesn’t carry enough guns F.L.G.: Your imita-
tion hexameter verse has only the effect of inferior
prose. It could be poetical, but it would want
handling with a lot of skill... .Umir: Loud torrent
of words, but no argument. , The articles you praise
and condemn are from the same pen, by the way.
D.W.0.L.: “Donovan’s Closure” fails' to make us
sipile. N.A.E.; Verse of that easy kind wants to
perfect. Yours has two weak spots... .K.A.:
Windy infant blew itself out M.L.: No new thing.
... . W.P.S.: “The Drive” follows in its method very
bad models. It’s a horrible yarn, anyhow. GC •
Lame sort of yell. . . .R.R. : ] t ’ s a remarkable theory
—that because we’re sons of Eve we are all boys,
and always mad when we are sad Returned Soldier •
Promising observation, but gets nowhere... .8.C.:
\crses not up D.D.V.: Fancy shouting “Wake up
wake up, Australia!” with all that row going on
Myah: Nothing in them. ...C.R.: He’s not a god,
all right R.G.: Some merit, but sags and sways
ail over the place....No Name: “Australia wants
you to go ’ repeated in eight successive lines doesn’t
make a poem. .. .G.E.G.: Sorry, not well enough
done. P.M.: Some force, but a bit too lumpy in
thought and workmanship Murf: The bitter erv
melts our heart:—
. ...E.S.McG.: Yes, verse published in this column is
Mid for. Cut out and send in with name and
address. Contemptible Army” doesn’t rise to the
dignity of a shocking example... ,V.C.: You think
verse 4 might be improved somewhat. AA'e think
verses 1 to 12 might be improved a 10t... .J.D.:
Clad to know the Australian boys “beet the ban ”
• .H. 8.: Yearlv. .. .11. K .; why don’t you read the
column before you yowl about getting no answer. . . .
A.K.( .: Advice to Husbands” not bright enough?
A\ hitepen: From what we could read of it, the yarn
docsnt amount to much AY.V.If.: Doesn't "•et
an.v where.... Tom S.: Glad to consider anything.
Blight personals always welcome.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Kush bush: Aon can’t draw and your sense of
humor is petrified.... Shorty: Immature stuff...-,--
-Af.E.R.:- The Bulletin’s Prophesying Department
was closed 10 minutes after the paper started
Leo C.: That sort of drawing will always need its
return fare.
A matter for inquiry
Oil the Southern highlands (N.S.W.) during the
" months the spread of hydatids among rabbits
has been very marked. Bunnies from these districts
were always noted for their healthy, robust con-
stitutions, and diseased animals did not exceed about
1 per cent. Latterly, however, my observations have
indicated a rapid increase in hydatid cases, the results
of some days' shooting giving as much as 40 per
cent. The spread of the disease is confirmed by
trappers, and it is not uncommon for a night’s catch
of about 100 rabbits to contain between 30 and 40
infected beasts. There is, however, no financial loss
t 0 thc ‘rapper. A knife blade is stuck into the
tumor or cyst, the water drained out, and the car-
ease forwarded to market with its healthv brethren.
Occasionally trappers cut out the infected portion,
but that doesn’t make the flesh fit for human con-
sumption. We have a Pure Food Act, and an* Act
providing for inspection of meat, but the rabbit indus-
try is evidently exempt from such control. Whether
hydatids produce fatal results to rabbits and may be
a means of diminishing the pest, I have no proof,
but judging by the amount of displacement of
various internal organs, it would seem very probable.
A schoolmaster in one of the Spud dis-
tricts of the Speck received a note which
explained the absence of a scholar in the
one word: _ “Cepatomtogoaturing.” The *
teacher put in a lot of time trying to puzzle
out the agglutinative language the “excuse”
was written in: finally it struck him that
the real solution was: “Kept at home to go
a-tatenng.” 6
Australia Fair! Will you hearken to a pleader?
Accept this as a leader!
Is the Yankee beef so very cheap?
th has a drought killed all our sheep ?
Though wars be sudden and intrigue deep,
Cut out the Yankee beef,
And send along some frozen sheep
1 or we are incomplete, without our larder '


s
ill
b m
m
m
m
S 3
1
« ■
555
as
'im
-% :
': a
: H
ss4
- m
-s
m
- - •>•
Ki
km
V.
II
m
?•
IM
i!
a*
/.-x
I
v
as*
@s
M
m mmi
Mk-MA -«at
■■■
wm
m tm s.-
K
~ ;■. X
a
hk
m
If
i
V*
Ns?
Mafe&s I
13 -
H
: /.
m
v
IHP***-
/a
4V A>
as
i
Pv
l/Ss
w,
m
m
w
■Zi
Va
'A
i
v ■ r P
.
Ml
S?
&t
zr„
Guests
is a simple matter with
BEALE KALOPHQNE
It is essentially an instrument that appeals to
cultivated tastes. The performers are artists with
world-wide reputations men and women of
genius who sing and play with consummate skill.
The Kalophone faithfully and realistically presents
their efforts —in touch, tone and temperament.
Informal concerts held daily from 1 0 till 4; 1 0 till
12.30 on Saturdays. Convenient terms arranged.
Also at
232 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn and Wagga
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros , Hobart. Maples, Launceston.
South Australia : John Evans. Ltd., Adelaide.
leale
* &C 9 LTP
333Geonde5t.
Sydney
Factory:
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.. ANNANDALE
Queensland : 90-92 Queen Street Brisbane
Kent Street. Maryborough Minders Street. Townsville.
Rockhampton. Sydney Street. Mackay
Cairns


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN E>,
Via DURBAN ami CAPETOWN.
ORMONDE ,
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabincs-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
1 rivate Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regidar sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Stdney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY )
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 28.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 1.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 4.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. S.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 11.
MELBOURNE
(Transhippir
S.A. and W.A,
ig for
, ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 4.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
I tanking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY
Hon. Sir ROBERT PTIILP, K C M G
Hon. A. J. THYNNE. M.L.C.
Gen nit at. Manager: J. MACKENZIE Y.EES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout OUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL RANKING BUSINESS
THE
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act 1
Sn CAP '. TAI ' - ■ !!■»“■« »
KBrsW-VT! ::
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets. Sydney
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
jEORge J, Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Frank N. Yarwood,
Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq. ; George F
Todaian, Esq. ; Hon. F. Jago Saiith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth!
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending .to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO 000 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund 212 000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock " 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman);
? on * ra y> M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. •
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq. 4
General Manager —lV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,875.000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors :
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Esq.; and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: IT. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birc h i n Lane.
Directors: F. IT. Dang.ar, Esq.; Hon. IT. S. Littleton •
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener. ’
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
„ SYDNKY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,605
GRANTS
fIRAFTQ on Australia, New 7,ea-
W, **' r * ® land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest tor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
r NIAGARA FALLS, Efc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Leave Auckland.
OCT. 31
NOV. 28
DEC. 25
JAN. 23.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts. Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), -RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacilic Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 9th November. * MOAN A, 7th December.
*Connecting steamers leave Sydney—3rd November, 30th November.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours a£ Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America-
R.HI.S. Niagara and R.M.S: Makura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
Tours to Fiji
Levuka,
Suva,
Lautoka
Samoa Apia, Friendly Islands
Tonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
Island Tours
:wsL.
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
fgh
£3,500,000
£2,675,000
£3,500,000
£9,675.000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles. K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, U.M.U., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Hea.d Office—Georere St., Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills ne°-o-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
■ -T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager. '
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
gf
3M‘ f 3itotra!ta
SYDNEY. I
General Banking Business
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
a^?-i, rem '^ an . ces nla^e t°- and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills, negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. interest paid on
hxed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
•« / Minimum At all Branches, and over Interest at O<V
•/ Deposit 2600 Agencies at Post Offices per annum w /°
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
L JAME 3 KEU - Df P»tr Gorernor, June, 1916 DENISON MILLER. Governor 1
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring A CLEAR COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Badness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists,
J.Pepper&Co., Ltd. .Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscorch.
n
h
for
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(3PILMRINE
Capillarine lias stood the test of
years as a genuine Moustache
producer, and now that the Mili-
tary have popularised the Mous-
tache once more, its efficacy is
being daily experienced by
hundreds of users.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AIIKEN, 654 8 v ° o e SS! st
QSH2
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Nov. 17 and Deo. 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, Oct. 28.
RUPARA, Nov. 4.
MORIALTA, Nov. 11.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable afler
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIZX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 13IUDGE STUB IST. SYDNISY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
lIOBA UT AND SYDNEY,
MIU.BOUBNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook! giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Svdnev: —
NOV, 15, DEC. 6, DEC. 27, JAN. 17.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
•44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger- Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN k C'o. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COPE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued m conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 S>. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T . 5.5. “ ICANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T. 5.5. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
.with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Your Choice Should Be
o©teM°p
[Registered in principal countries]
Because
—it will give you all-round satisfaction —just as it has
to more than two million other housewives.
—it is treated with O-Cedar Polish the polish that
does not gum, stick or veneer, but gives a. hard, dry,
durable lustre that will not collect dust.
—it makes it easy to clean those hard-to-get-at places.
—it ‘cleans as it polishes.’
—it collects all the dust from everywhere and holds it.
*—it is easily washed and renewed.
•—it is unconditionally guaranteed.
When shopping look for
this Yellow Tin on your
dealer’s shelves.
O-<EiteM 0 P j
. Those~HS»r3~toVet-~at Places AC
Mill
o
c
The Original
the Standard
O-Cedar Mops were the first
and have remained the stan-
dard Mops despite wide-
spread imitation. Beware of
substitutes —look for the yel-
low package and the trade-
marked name “O-Cedar.”
—it is substantially made and
padded to prevent the marring
of furniture. The finished, pol-
ished handle is 54 inches long.
Tjy It at Our Risk
Any leading dealer will supply
you with O-Cedar Polish-Mop.
We guarantee it to fully satisfy
you.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples
and Prices can be had from
GIBBS, BRIG II T & C 0.,
•37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
CHANNELL CHEMICAL CO.
Factory: Chicago, U. S. A.
Offices: London, Toronto, Buenos Aires
Cable Address: ‘Ocedar
ĥg
ĝh
Prettier,
Cleaner and
Brighter
Floors than
you have ever
had before!
11l
w
ar
/
It
Edison “Gem”
Phonograph
No matter what price you wish to pay for
a Phonograph, for your own benefit see that
you get an Edison.
Edison Phonographs are excellent value —-
'irrespective of which model you may pur-
chase.
The “Gem,” illustrated, is a fine instrument
in every waj-, vet the price is only £3/10/-.
The higher-priced machines are consistently
pleasing, and Uiere is variety enough to
fulfil all requirements.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer for full
information, or write direct to us for printed
matter, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
£3/10/-
Va
‘ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for UREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “i like the Celebrated ‘AIIABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6. I
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
ĝ
No. 304 A
OSTER
MACHINES
B.ELT (SL MOTOR
DRIVEN
47 distinct
stocks and sc
ing machines;.
One to fit
pipe-threading
needs.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, G.P.O , Melbourne, Vic
die-
;rew-
your
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in he
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
The machine shown at the left, Ao.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
fr Q m 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from 4-inch to
l§-incli. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease. quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[i
EXPERIENCE TEACHES!
Experiments with new Rasors only sctve to emphasise
the supremacy of
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
over all newcomers. This tried and trusted friend is the
stand-by of the man of experience. The “Plum” will
always give you a clean, close shave, and keeps its
keen edge the longest.
PRICE 10/0 POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Gasie, 21/- N
Single Ra::or, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
... .. '
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
A
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “PLUIVT
Razor.
h
ABBEY
SHOES
are made in many stylish models
to suit the requirements of every
well-dressed man. You will have
no difficulty in getting footwear
exactly to your taste, if you buy at
the Abbey Shoe Stores.
We illustrate one of our latest
models—A GLACE KIT) BAL,
with PATENT LEATHER TOE-
Price - 26/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Gas Engines
For All Purposes.
HIGHEST grade. Simplest design. Easiest
operated. 1- to 4-cvlinder designs. 2-
to 30-h.p. Standard and heavy duty
types.
When writing for catalogs, state type of
engine desired and give details regarding
service to be rendered.
fghfg
Cai 1 1 e Five-
Sppert Rowboat
Motor, with
Starter.
fhg
Cattle Aristocrat Motor. Has Electric
Starter and Electric Lights, 4-C.ycle,
4-Cylinder.
fgh
Caille 8-li.p. Unit Power Plant.
Reserving Gear on same bed as engine.
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.',
1554 Caille Street, DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
I n use since 1596.
Write for Book. "CURES write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Enfc
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
If any illustration appearing
Bulletin takes your fancy, \yi
Manager, who will quote you prlc
in The
rite to; the
e "for It.


The drink for men. Men who drink whisky wonder
why there are others who don’t. Men' who drink
Thorne’s AVhisky wonder why there are some who
don’t. If you’re a whisky-drinker and want real
quality-production—the choicest that is distilled in
the famous district of Glenlivet—you should call for
Thorne’s. The carefully-selected high-grade malts from
which Thorne’s is distilled give it a distinctive flavor
and delightful bouquet.
THORNE’S AVHISKY.
0.11. M. “Incomparable.”
[2
HUDSWELL, CLARKE 8 CO
gh
LEEDS.
Locos, of all Typos.
ONE QUALITY ONLY
THE BEST.
Agent—
J. fIEWMAN, Engineer. Ocean House, Moore St., Sydney
Missing: Friends.
J F ROLFE FRANCIS LOWNDES LORRAINE, eldest
son of the late John Rice Lorraine, Surgeon, will
communicate with the Rev. Father Eugene and
Poynton and Bellord, Solicitors, he will hear of
something to his advantage under Will of Bessie
Lowndes Humphrey,' widow, deceased. Forward
papers at once.
N / RS. MARIA BRENNAN, now or formerly of
I Bischoif, Tasmania, is requested to communicate
with W. Carpenter & Sons, Solicitors, 5 Laurence
Pountney Lane, Cannon Street, London, England.
A REMEDY WHICH REALLY
GROWS HAIR.
We have received from one of our readers
the following formula which he considers as
being of great value. Our correspondent
says: “This mixture is a tonic for the hair
which,, if applied morning and evening with
the tips of the fingers so as to make it pene-
trate well into the scalp, will certainly
make the hair grow, will cure baldness, will
restore to grey hair its natural color, and
will destroy dandruff. Mix -1-dram menthol
crystals dissolved in a teaspoonful of alcohol
with 3oz. bay rum, and then add loz.
Lavona de Composee. If desired, half a
teaspoonful of French Fon Fleur Perfume,
which imparts a very pleasant scent, may be
added. Shake well, then let it stand for half
an hour, after which the lotion will be ready
for use.” Some readers without doubt will
be desirous of trying this remedy, which can
be prepared by any chemist. Our obliging
reader finishes his communication with the
following advice, which shows the faith he
has in this remedy: “As 'this lotion really
produces a growthi of hair, it should not he
applied where hair is not desired.” —Anv'f.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding- Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy anti Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office: •
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
IN
BANANA LAND
“P.X.”: Ryan is at last a distinguished
man. Barring the accidental Elmslie, lie
is the only Labor Premier or ex-Premier
in Australia who isn’t fighting with the
conscriptionists. John Earle, of Tasmania,
was the first to shout “Yes”; then J. C.
Watson ; then Holman and J. T. McGowen ;
then Verran and Crawford Vaughan, of S.
Australia. These men were chosen to lead
their party because they had given a life-
time to Labor and were tried and proved
and knew Labor principles top and bottom.
Now the P.L.L. and the P.L.C., which con-
sist of men who are not tried and proved,
want the public to believe that all these
leaders have suddenly turned traitors to
Labor. Well, the public simply won’t do it
—even to oblige Ryan, who of all the Pre-
miers and ex-Premiers is the rawest recruit
to the Labor party.
Last moment dispatch from Queensland
trenches, Referendum front: —
The antis are still confident, and talk boastfully
of a huge No majority. Nevertheless to acute
observers signs are not wanting of a definite drift
of tlie anti hopes to leeward during the last few
days. Individual Laborites are now freely express-
ing themselves in eonscriptionist newspapers, a
thing never attempted in the early days of the
campaign. Another sign—in the last week many
anti meetings have been turned into eonscriptionist
gatherings. It is also ominous that several State
Ministers have abandoned platform work, on behalf
of the antis. The Government realises that it is
LAWYER: “Action by your landlady on your own dishonored cheque given for three
months’ board, and you want me to defend it —what defence have you got?”
CLIENT: “Well, dear boy, the infernal old woman's meat was positively unfit to eat.
really. And then I had no funds in the infernal bank at the time. That ought to
make a good line of defence — what?”
in an extraordinary position. Forty-four out of 45
State, Laborites who hopped down too hurriedly off
the fence are just beginning to realise that they are
on the wrong side. For if Queensland says
Yes the State Government will be utterly dis-
credited. And Queensland will say Yes! It isn’t
the sort of State to turn dog on Australia. ■>
[E. N. MacCulloch, Queen-street, Brisbane.!
“W.G.8.”: There is a little community
just outside Toowoomba that practises com-
munism with unusual success. There are
six sons and two daughters; five sons are
married and one daughter. The mother acts
as banker, and she also does the paying out.
They all live in the one house and have a
common dining-room. A few years ago they
had nothing; now they have farms, saw-
mills. etc., and they can put their hands on
a few thousands. More marvellous than all,
quarrels are said to be quite unknown among
them.
“J.F.H.” from London :
Any old-time Bananalanders remember a trader
up Rockhampton way named John Lionel Ching,
who used to advertise that, in spite of his sus-
picious surname, he did not hail from China, but
from the “good old town of Launceston, Cornwall,
England” ? It was a necessary precaution in the
days of strong anti-Mongolian prejudices. He is
mentioned in the latest London Notes and Queries.
The Ching- family, it is ascertained, is one of the
oldest in Cornwall, and figures frequently in local
registers of the 14th and 15th centuries.
The Good Machine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When loose of late the Devil ran bamboozling human
kind
He strolled among the brainy few whose ears were
well inclined.
“My children,” said the Sooty One, “’tis time you
got to work —
I n wickedness you're bested clean by any dirty
Turk ;
Get up, you lazy crew,
And hustle matters through,
It’s time you saw, if things must move about this
mortal scene,
The thing, to do is start anew and build a good
machine.
He got them all a-building- hard in workshop and
in hall,
And never such a hustling was since Adam's primal
fall;
A thumping brazen engine did the German build
for gas,
And laughed to think h%,d use it on his fellow
human-ass;
The statesman, keen and raucous,
He fitted up a Caucus;
The Briton made a fighting tank and launched a
submarine,
And each was filled with rapture at the might of his
machine.
The Frenchman made a seventy-five; and how it
swept the field!
Whene’er it caught a regiment the doom thereof
was sealed.
The Russian found a deadly gun (’twas fathered by
the Jap)
Would clear a rood of trenches and demoralise a
sap.
Then jubilation loud
Arose from ev’ry crowd,
And joy was wide and general in ev’ry land, I ween,
To think the race had risen to the height of its
machine.
The Father of the Comedy he grinned a wicked grin :
“I’ll take mine ease in future and I’ll meddle not
with sin ;
They’ve made their own inventions, have these cun-
ning ones who know,
And all I have to do now is to watch and let ’em
grow;
A healthy appetite
Has every iron wight,
And when he’s started breakfasting upon the show
terrene,
I guess he’ll teach ’em all a trick —the lovely new
machine.”
And lo! upon a morning- sweet the squealing fun
began.
The big machines began to chase their cunning-
maker, man;
The Caucus caught the statesman up and ate him
with a zest,
The gasser gassed the German (it was such a happy
jest!)
The tank absorbed the builder
Who’d moulded her and filled her;
The sailor in the oozes he fed the submarine ;
The seventy-five was hungry, too, like every good
machine.
The Devil watched the feeding. “By Sheol, that was
fine!
A better play, Apollyon, was never trick o’ thine!
The man begat the engine ghoul to best his fellow-
man ;
The engine ate his father, then, from Beersheba to
Dan; .
’Tis time I had a spell
And told the tale to Hell,
’Twill please the sooty jesters who sweat the grids
between,
This tale of Man the Builder who made the Big
Machine!”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 21, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindaii, —
The social excitements of the week have
emanated from Queen’s Carnival candidates,
but cash has not rolled in so readily since
suspicion arose that the Residential Club
for Returned Soldiers (in whose aid the
show is being run) is likely to be a club
merely for some homing soldiers. Personal
popularity, however, is getting in a lot of
sound work, and Mrs. Lee, the soldiers’
nominee for the Crown, is doing good busi-
ness for the cause. She is lengths ahead of
her rivals.
Major and Mrs. Weavers entertained 200
guests at a hilarious evening in the lounge
at Lennon’s Hotel last Wednesday evening,
in aid of Mrs. Lee’s fund. Auctioneer Love
coaxed good money for a fragment of a Hun-
built Zeppelin and other trifles, and alto-
gether £2OO clinked into the cash register.
The Mayoress, Mrs. Hetherington, the
Citizens’ representative, shook up the
Stadium with a. massed-bands’ concert to
swell her fund. She and the Navy’s princess
(Mrs. Curtis) also raked in something from
an entertainment on the Tivoli roof-garden.
On Friday, again, the supporters of the
Navy’s choice managed a “Somerset Fair”
near the G.P.0., while a block away the
conspirators of the Charity Queen (the
Morgan dame) were doing their what-your-
Mr.-Holman-says with stalls and collecting-
boxes.
A bridge-and-euchre party and an enter-
tainment bv amateurs in Her Majesty’s were
the contributions made to the general whirl
by the Sports’ Queen (Mrs. Blume). I did
hear that this lady’s supporters are lying-
low with a huge amount to fling into the
fund at the last moment, so as to bring her
home an easy winner. But, then, we hear
so many things, my dear, • which we can’t
believe, no, matter how much we’d like to.
Two talented Queenslanders, Eric Hayne,
violinist, and Winifred Burston, pianist, gave
a recital on Wednesday night. If our fiddler
were to disguise himself as Haynowski or
something like that all Australia would rave
about him.
Having finished a satisfactory season of
“La Mascotte,” the Brisbane Operatic
Players are preparing to deal with “Paul
•Jones.” Mrs. Arthur Hunter and Leonard
Francis will do the coaching.
Dr. Robert Thompson, one of our best-
known men, was married to-day to Miss
Gorst. an auburn-haired beauty, who made
no objection to the proceedings.
Miss Kate Caiman’s pupils gave a dance
to-night in aid of the Comforts Fund of the
15th Battalion. Colonel Cannan _ com-
manded the 15th until he got his brigade,
and Capt. Cannan, who was killed at Gal-
lipoli, also belonged to that famous bat-
talion.
At a drill-hall the other day the following
dialogue took place between a sergeant-
major and one of the lads called up to
report:—-
“What’s vour religion?”
“W’eelbarrer.”
“What?”
“W’eelbarrer.”
“Here! No foolery. What sect do you
belong to?”
“W’eelbarrer.”
“Well, what sort of [wicked word] religion is
that?” >
•“Gutter bo pi;shed before I go anywhere.”
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“J.M." : Although usually a wasteful per-
son, Binghi can show us points in economy
at times. Once when travelling along the
beach of Cape York Peninsula with three
blacks I camped for a week near the mouth
of a tidal creek. The first day or two the
nigs, put in all their time fishing; then they
suddenly knocked off and laid around doing
nothing. As there was abundance of fish in
the mouth of the creek I was surprised, and
when the boys suddenly went off their
tucker I began to be alarmed. There is
something wrong with Binghi when he
refuses to eat. For two days and
well into the third day they ate nothing, and
it was only by threatening to dose them with
"goodforbingy”—a fearful mixture of cod-
liver oil, ipecacuanha and epsom salts—that
I discovered what was up. On the second
day of their fishing the nigs, had caught an
enormous rock-cod. They decided that as it
was impossible to eat it all at once in their
present well-fed state there would be a lot
of waste. So they tethered the big fish alive
in a deep hole in the creek, and resolutely
began a do-without campaign so as to get
hungry enough to scoff it all in one feed.
“McNorth’s” idea:—
After the last wisp of smoke has curled out of
sight and hundreds of thousands of our boys come
marching home, the North ought to get its long-
overdue chance. Australia’s stock of pioneers
has been running short of late years, but now
a new supply offers, and any hankering by our
soldiers for a full and free life in the North should
be carefully nursed and encouraged. For a start,
areas of suitable laud along- the far-northern fore-
shores might be made available. They would need
to be in, or adjacent to, shelter for shipping, a
simple matter seeing that harbors abound. Then,
with the collaboration of the Departments for the
Protection of Aborigines, blacks could be employed
to clear the ground. Binghis are fair toilers if pro-
perly overseered and worked in big detachments, and
they would soon clear hundreds of acres of land.
Copra, bananas, maize, cotton and a score of other
things could be produced, and there would be the
advantage of cheap water-borne carriage to market.
The cost of the. scheme, if properly worked, would be
very small, and such a settlement at our front door
would be of incalculable value.


$ wfo dIUP Q,
IIU
-WvW'i.'
h .
MLI
f ! I
=-M
*.? K
, i) X
&J - ¥
v/V 1 (
j@
f f
MI
/ ~
■ ■ iw>n^i..iuwpmapww
a?
%
6.
?>
O
G
8
&
C/3
a
M
3S>
>.
u-
*
1
OHT
ggES-'
3K5
1)1
SS:
HE LABORATORY ! Careful, scientific analysis
of every ingredient used in the “ Light Crystal ” is
made in this room. Malt, hops, yeast —all are sub-
jected to the strictest scrutiny and pronounced up to standard
before being used. It is for reasons like these that “Light
Crystal” is a beverage you will enjoy drinking.
m
dJ ko
fake a Bottle Home to-night !
Tooth's


“The Wentworth”
a graceful model
Seamless—leather lined—comfortable
and dressy, the “Wentworth"’ has
proved a most popular style.
Medium toe—easy fitting across joints.
In Tan Calf—■
27/6
IT 'E PAY POSTAGE.
Write for Catalogue.
I
Koiiin
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded tilth inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression ?
li so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 3/- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
A DELICIOUS SOUP
is made even nicer by
adding a little Bisto,
which thickens as well
as colours and salts
Soups, Stews, etc.
All Grocers, fn Tfns. “Made by CEREBOS, LTO.
Sptend'd
oiso for
Gravies.
The I H C isn't the only engine that
will use Kerosejfe, BUT—
It will use a lq-gper and cheaper grade
than most and hence save in
fuel cost. JB
It will g^^ f greater amount of power
out of j||gallon of the same quality
k%ose||F— again more fuel saving.
It||y||iFcause far less trouble and
st'fiilpfe of work —further economy.
A l||n3.H.P. will start immediately
on a quarter of a pint of benzine.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUS. Pry. Ltd
n I! IS BANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE
(72) ADELAIDE BERTH LAUNCESTON
fgh
Waterproof
Balaclava Hoods
for wet weather.
Light weight, to cover
wool hood .. 3/6
Heavy waight ... 4/6
SEND ONE to YOUR BOY
Include a wool hood 3/ 6
or a Balaclava Cap 4/ 6
if he has none.
ROTHWELL’S LTD,
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
/Dotted
/AGONAL
Coi/rse of
VKftzor.
es
Strops with the Heel-to-Toe
Motion —the Barber’s Stroke.
The
. Evermore &9<te’stpcke, Strapper
As the Blade moves UP and DOWN the STROP draws
LATERALLY across the edge, giving its whole length that
delightful smoothness so necessary to a perfect shave, and
HITHERTO ATTAINED ONLY BY THE MOST EXPERT OF
BARBERS.
15-
Special Adapters provided with each
Stropper for ALL MAKES OF
SAFETY-RAZOR BLADES, Single-
or Double-edged.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE IT.
15
If unable to procure, write Box 1003, G.P.0., Sydney; or Box 14
G.P.0., Auckland, N..Z.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
://
BEAUTY SECRETS
REVEALED.
Ey “MIMOSA.”
HAIR CULTURE.
A DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have poor or
impoverished hair if a few commonsense
rules are observed. First of all, hair tonics
must be freshly-made in order to obtain the
best results, and thousands of women, and
men, too, are now making up their own
lotions with most satisfactory results. For
this purpose they obtain from the chemist’s
one ounce of boranium and mix this with
l pint of bay rum, quite a simple formula,
and according to all accounts remarkably
effective. This simple home-made lotion
quickly removes all dandruff, and creates a
growth of new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman. One word
in conclusion. Do not experiment with
your hair, long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you continue
to subject the hair and scalp to all kinds
of fanciful treatments. Employ a tonic by
all means if such is required, but having
found a satisfactory one use no other.
GOOD SHAMPOO IMPORTANT.
THE hair should be allowed to breathe,
and the greasy film around each strand
must be removed with a mild non-
alkaline shampoo. Soaps should be tabooed.
The very best solution for the purpose can
be made by dissolving a teaspoonful of stal-
iax granules in a cup of hot water. It
stimulates the scalp to healthy action, and
at the same time leaves the hair in that
soft, fluffy condition so much admired. Any
chemist can supply you with an original
packet of stallax, sufficient to make twenty-
five or thirty shampoos.
MAGIC FOR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
I T is astounding the number of women
who suffer from unsightly growths of
hair on the face, and it will come as a
piece of good news to know that there is a
simple substance, known as powdered phe-
minol, which will remove it immediately
and permanently. Mix a small quantity
into a thin paste with a little water, and
apply to the objectional growths. _ln two
minutes all trace fff the hair will have
entirely vanished, and your skin will be as
soft and smooth as a child’s.
RENEWING COMPLEXIONS.
HE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite
skin is now within her reach, providing she
has the good sense to fetop using cheap made-
up preparations and adopt what has now
become known as the mercolised-wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as mercolised
wax. Inquiry at several chemists’ shops
have resulted in ascertaining that this sub-
stance has been known to the select few for
some years as a complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that it has been
used to any extent for this purpose. It was
also explained how mercolised wax renews
the complexion, but as this is rather tech-
nical it is not proposed to repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that through some
peculiar action the wax absorbs the dead
and discolored outer cuticle, revealing the
fresh young complexion which every woman
has underneath. The process occupies about
ten days, and the change is so gradual and
imperceptible that no discomfort whatever
is caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
BLACKHEADS FLY AWAY.
A PRACTICALLY instantaneous remedy
for blackheads, greasy skins and
enlarged pores, recently discovered, is
now coming into general use in the boudoir.
It is very simple, harmless and pleasant.
Drop a stymol tablet, obtained at the
chemist’s, in a tumbler full of hot water.
After the effervescence has subsided bathe
the face in the liquid, using a small sponge
or soft cloth. In, a few minutes dry the
face and the offensive blackheads will come
right off on the towel. Also the large oily
pores immediately close up and efface them-
selves naturally. The greasiness disappears
and the skin is left smooth, soft and cool.
This simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days to
ensure the permanence of the result. [i
George Black, Chief Secretary (N.S.W.).
has a scheme for assisting returned soldiers
by setting them to grow oysters on Govern-
ment water-frontages. They ought to know
something about shells, anyway.
“Maphsn”: “Copabella’s” alderman and
his “momentum of the occasion" reminded me
of the general before last. Angelitta was
her name; she explained to the wife what
her duties would have to be, and ended up
with the warning: “But don’t forget—l
dance abundance on no one!”
In “The Life and Letters of Sir John
llenniker Ileaton,” just published in Lon-
don, the world is informed that ’Enniker
“stood for Parliament as a candidate for
the electorate of young New South Wales.”
So Voting will have to abandon any hop.
it may have cherished of achieving immor-
tality by reason of its association with the
apostle of the penny post.
"Resp”: The war keeps Discovery busy
at her job. Gas poisoning at the Front has
been treated hitherto with only fair results.
Now two English doctors, Tunnicliffe and
Spedding, have tried a new scheme. Oxygen
is passed through a solution of sodium car-
bonate and thence forced into a vein in the
foot. ■ The result is that the person whose
lungs are choked with the fluid left by the
poison can cough them clear, while getting
enough of the vitalising material to- keep
things going. The method might work, too,
in cases of drowning; and the time may
come when a man with no lungs will be
able to breathe through respirators in his
boots.
Even the Commonwealth Gazette
shrieks scorn at us nowadays. On October
!) yelled in our ears that last financial
year’s Customs and excise revenue was
£16,944,941, against £14,874,247 the year
before; and to show us how we are practis-
ing economy it stated that the revenue from
jewellery and fancy goods was £334,623,
from musical instruments £100,561, and
from apparel £2,899,879. Even if the cost
of living is so high that we can’t afford
meat we can always get a bite of jewellery
and a cupful of softgoods.
“Gustavus Gravelpit”: Ten years ago
Bridget O’Flaherty had the misfortune to
marry a German and become Mrs. Hans
Heinrichs, and the combination has worked
all right, chiefly because Hans has been quite
content to let'Bridget do all the bossing and
most of the work. Shortly after the war
broke out the authorities came nosing round
the Heinrichs’ homestead on the Lower Mur-
ray (S.A.), and pumping the missus with
regard to her “enemy” husband. “Let Hans
alone,” said Bridget with emphasis. “I’ll
tell yez this. Divil a bit of harm will he
do to England, Ireland, or Scotland while lie’s
wid me!”
Babies seem to be largely a local habit.
While the average for the past five years
has been 44 per 1060 people at Warrnam-
bool it has been only 28 per 1000 at Geelong
and 25 per 1000 at Ballarat. On the sur-
face’ it looks as though the slump in gold-
mining and the consequent moving out of a
lot of the younger men and women might
have had something to do with it at Bal-
larat; yet Bendigo, which has been hit,4too,
keeps up to 31. And Geelong is growing and
attracting population, while no one can say
that Warrnambool has any great boom on.
“Reka” : Maoriland is trying to choose a
national flower. The pohutukawa, once the
popular choice, has been rejected because it
is known only to the dwellers near the sea,
and_ also because it resembles several Aus-
tralian vegetables, The manuka is out, as it is
not peculiar to M.L.. and the rata also has
relations oversea. This leaves the yellow
kowhai favorite. It certainly can make out
a strong case. It is distinctive and,has the
advantage of being distributed all over the
country ; it is easily grown, flowering just
as freely in the backyard as in the bush;
and it is the emblem of Spring in Maori lore
and easily the most beautiful native thing
that the country produces. Incidentally it
has this advantage: on occasions when the
Australian and Maoriland national emblems
come to be intertwined, it will not clash
with wattle, and it blooms about the same
time.
“R.A.Y.” summarises a useful career:—
•Just retired, at about 70, to end his days at
Maclean, after half a century of intelligent work,
John Bale, premier agricultural experimentalist of the
North Coast of N. S. Wales. John was the first to'
make commercial sugar on the North Coast, That
was on the Clarence in the early ’6o’s. He himself
made the wooden rollers with which he crushed the
cane, a pair of bullocks supplying the motive power
of the primitive mill. He experimented with cotton,
too, and later with coffee, but believed that, while the
latter could be profitably grown and manufactured,
the returns were not, under existing conditions, as
remunerative as those from other crops, such as
sugar-cane and bananas. He successfully established
a broom-making business from local millet, and the
few who have taken it up are making money. John
could supply volumes of valuable information about
agriculture, but his dominating idea that banks and
banknotes are the roots of all industrial troubles
creeps on to every sheet on potatoes or coffee.
Victoria is promised increased taxation
chiefly because of the failure of the Railway
Commissioners to make the department pay.
Last year, apart from the railways, the State
had a surplus of £108,000; but the loss on
turned it into a deficit of
r , The railway revenue for the year
—£s,7os,l63—constituted a record; yet the
Commissioners just managed to get through
with a deficit of £337.000. notwith-
standing that the train mileage was reduced
and the revenue per traffic train mile—
•Ss. 3.o3d.—was the highest for 38 years.
The explanation offered is that it cost
ss. 4.31 d. to run each train mile last year,
compared with 4s. 10.90(1. for the preceding
year. The Railway Commissioners cer-
tainly can’t control the labor bill; but neither
can any other employer. So that’s no
excuse.
Apparently Billzac has forgotten how to
blank. In a letter to Brigadier-General
Newton Moore, congratulating him on the
behavior of the Billzacs quartered in the-town.
the Mayor of Andover lays special stress on
“the notable absence of foul language.” *


fghfgh
Motor-
Driven
Warning
Signal
£2/12/6
Warning' Sig'nal
Now the WORLD’S STANDARD
WARNING SIGNAL
. The commanding blast of the Stewart Warning
Signal is now familiar the world over.
Yon hear it over the hills and prairies; yon hear it in
the farmlands and around the ranches; you hear
it penetrating through forests, along rivers, streams
and lakes; you hear it on metropolitan boulevards,
as it makes the surging crowds stop, look and
listen. In short, you hear it everywhere.
The Stewart Warning Signal is of comparatively
recent introduction, yet now stands first in sales.
The hand-operated Stewart Warning Signal costs
but £l/10 =; the motor-driven Stewart, £2/12/6.
No others are better, although all others cost more.
Buy a Stewart Warning Signal for your car.
Stewart products will cost you nothing extra
on your new car, because most good cars are
so equipped . Buy one that is equipped with
Stewart Tyre Pump, Stewart Speedometer,
Stewart Vacuum System and Stewart
Warning Signal. It is a mark of quality.
For Sale by Leading Accessory Dealers, Motor=car Dealers
and Garages—Everywhere—or write
Bennett (Q. Wood Ltd.,
284 Pitt Street Exclusive Distributors Sydney, N.S.W
“No car is better than its accessories .
■
M,
H
Hand-
Operated
WARNING
SIGNAL
£l/10/-
\e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Engineers
In every point which affects the
REAL productive value of the machine
—still more so in combinations —the
Machine Tools that we sell have Dis-
tinct and Positive Advantages.
If you are in the market for General
Engineering or Special Motor
Garage Machine Shop Equipment
it will pay you to investigate the
High-grade Machines we have in
stock.
In any case, if Machine Tools interest
you. ask for 92-page Catalogue M 9.
Post Free.
Sagar Woodworking
Machines
Cost more than the “low-price” machines,
because they’re worth it. They represent a
paradoxical case of saving money by spend-
ing it.
SAGAR Quality is insurance against break-
down and other expensive stoppages common
to “low-price” machinery.
SAGAR WOODWORKING MACHINES
are British Built and embody the Finest
Materials, Best Workmanship, Frames of
exceptional strength, and all the orthodox
and many exclusive features for Rapid
Productions, Convenience and Accuracy.
AS AGENTS we carry a complete range of
these Machines for Timber Mills.
Joiners, Coachbuilders, Furniture Manufac-
turers, etc.
Ask for MS Catalogue. It’s Free.
f.
"OSTER” Stocks
and Dies
are the recognised leaders in the
Pipe-screwing. Tool World. With
an “OSTER” Stock and Die
open, you don’t have to wind off
after finishing a thread. The
“OSTER” has adjustable
Guides, which centre the pipe
perfectly; also improved gauge
for cutting duplicate threads, and
the Dies thread several sizes
without change.
Particulars and Price on
Application.
Proprietary Limited
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street, Helbourne, Victoria.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
» *
L
-
:
\e£ Jk
■ .
mmmm
BBS/
w - •••'.'
£&sv' :-W
m ii§/;3l
»li
K&& iS?.ls
l&gm I|§l
’ ■
S&3MR
SijSpss*
5 t
Bid
SJRE YOU
lON THE ROLL
Supplied
in
rolls
72 feel
long
and
3 feet
wide,
with
sufficient
nails for
the job.
Only a
Hammer
needed.
n mi
Roofing
Certain-teed Roofing
gives you
A Cheaper Roof, a Reliable Roof,
a Durable Roof—and YOU CAN
FIX IT YOURSELF, OR YOUR
•HANDY MAN CAN.
Certain-teed Roofing is NOT an ‘‘experi-
ment” —it is an established fact.
It is as good for the house or factory as
it is for the poultry-shed or cow-bails.
It contains MORE Bitumen (the
weather-resisting principle) than any
other Roofing Material.
In fact, there is no fault that we kno’
of in Certain-teed Roofing, and we recom-
mend it for any roof that needs covering
or re-covering.
Samples and prices posted on
■ receipt of your name and
address.
Get your samples before you buy
ANY Roofing.
DANKS’
Otherwise John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.
For Builders & Ceneral Hardware,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.


Take Care of Your Notes
%
Do not crumple them. Keep them straight, clean and in good
order. Paper money is expensive to produce, and is rendered
more so by the paper shortage. The more care you take of your
Notes, the less will be the cost of the Government’s printing bill.
Every patriotic citizen can support the Government’s appeal
for economy in this matter by purchasing one of
STEWART DAWSON’S
PUZZLE NOTE BOOKS.
A very cute, very handy, contrivance, being so thin and
compact it takes up no room in a man’s pocket or lady’s
handbag. The notes can be laid in quite flat, and are kept
perfectly secure, as shown in the illustration. We stock various
sizes and shapes in these useful Note Holders, at following
prices: 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, to 12/6.
Our Latest Illustrated Folder of Soldiers’
Presents Post Free to any address.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fgh
(i
V A 99
PERFECTION in DESIGN, MATERIALS and WORKMANSHIP
%
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
,
The “SKANDIA”in THE HEBRIDES
“MALEKOLA” and “AHAMB.”
25 Tons.
20 h.p.
17 Tons.
13 h.p.
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Loft\is Street;
SYDNEY.
fhg
IE any illustration appearing in 'xiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“GRAMOPHONE’’
New Records for November.
Imprisoned in these records for November are the notes of the Diva —
the strains of all instruments of music! You can liberate them at
will. Add them to your library.
2-0580.—Fete Boheme, “Scenes Pittor-
escjues.”
Koyal Albert Hall Orchestra.
8543 Berceuse.
1 Butterfly. Miss Helen Sealy.
03415.——Carry Me Back to Old Virginny.
Madame Alma Gluck (Soprano)-.
4-2601.—Mavis. Mr. John McCormack.
8539. ( Songs My Mother Taught Me.
( Believe It True.
Mr. Julian Kimbell (Tenor).
4-2632. —My Message.
Mr. Hubert Eisdell (Tenor).
04140.—Dear Child, Recall Not to My
Mind, “ltigoletto.”
Mr. William Samuel & Miss Nora
D’Argel.
022226.—N0w Let Us Depart (Church
Hymn). CHALIAPIN (with
Chorus and Orchestra).
03125. —O Divine Redeemer.
CLARA BUTT.
2-053116.—Soiveig’s Sons:. “Peer Gynt.”
TETRAZZINI.
01130.—Speech by the Man who Dined
With the Kaiser.
Complete liecoid Cists, Instruments Catalogue and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
• < gramophone ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
Three Sizes—
I'A H.p.
2 H.p.
3 y 2 l\.p.
Mil
a
TheEVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simile and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street, Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.). Auckland, N.Z.
local Agents required in all towns where not represented.
U
me
m
mm.
WM
II
fhg
A Good Day s Sport
and a good bag are
assured by using
“NITRO CLUB”
and “ARROW”
Waterproofed
Smokeless Cartridges
Made in 8,10, 12, 16, 20, 24 and 28 gauge
Loaded in London with the
popular English powders.
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere.
Catalogue 'post-free on request
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Bldg-, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
This interior steel band, the lining of all
“Nitro Club” and “Arrow” cartridges, gives
great strength where it is needed most, and
extraordinary penetrative power.
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 686, Melbourne.
fgf
RAMEY’S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Kay
Fever, Bronchitis, influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10/-, post free. ,
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Used the
World Over
I
m
MOTOR
...CARS
Vr
ghfgh
It cleans white shoes, too!
The soft, crumbly, porous min-
eral in Bon Ami rubs out the
grime and grass stains from
white canvas or white leather
shoes. It works like magic, re-
storing the true original white-
ness.
The special shoe whiteners do
not really clean at all —they
only paint over the dirt with a
chalky paste that soon flakes, off
again.
Take off the dirt with Bon Ami
andyou won’t need any whitener.
And your shoes will look new
and clean instead of having that
pasty painted-up look.
Bon Ami is also for windows and
mirrors. It is a fine metal polish.
Good for tile and bath tubs.
'vao-'cv /vwoc
>7|For all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
At your grocers .
“There is nothing else like


Trial Free by Post
“When my daughter was vaccinated
blood-poisoning set in and she came out
MSI
in eruptions from the
crown of her head to the
soles of her feet. The
eruptions came out like
little yellow heads and
then got veiy red and
inflamed.
“I saw the Cuticura
Soap and Ointment ad-
vertised and decided to
give them a trial, and in fourteen days the
eruptions had disappeared.” (Signed)
Mrs. Cecilia Wilson, cr. O’Farrell &
Morgan Sts., West Broken Hill, N. S. W.,
September 23, 1915.
Free sample each by post with 32-p.
Skin Book. (Soap to cleanse and Oint-
ment to heal.) Address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Mr. J. Moorehouse, of
Winnipeg, secured this fine
black-tail Deer with his Ross
.280
Like other experienced hunters he
■ is loud in his praise of the accuracy ■
■ and tremendous anchoring power of 8
the “Ross” and its Sporting Ammu-
nition with Copper Tube Expanding
Bullet, patented. You also should
use them.
Illustrated catalogue on request.
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Can.
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
ALL FOOT TROUBLES
VANQUISHED!
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet,
Corns, Chilblains, cured without
delay. New Foot Medicine
Quickly Banishes all Foot
Ailments.
A S
ry
Choose which you will have.
To those who are troubled with sore, tender ach-
ing, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling feet,
chilblains, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF"
will bring quick relief and gladness to the feet,
Use “BIFF” today and banish all pain and discom-
fort. By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Experience only makes credible.
“BIFF” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores from the wholesale houses, or post free
direct from the manufacturers. Price Is. 6d. per
box, large size (three times the quantity) 4s.
fgh
HE
i USES
“BIFF”
HE ,
DOESN T,
THE BIFF MANUFACTURING CO.
114 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J-
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K. 0.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secrstary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £20,670,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay.
WOLSELEY
T present the Wolseley Works are
on War Service, and unable to
supply private customers; but we shall
be pleased to add your order to our
waiting list, to be fulfilled when we
can resume deliveries.
Agents: F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street, Melbourne.
C. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
fg
WOLSELEY MOTORS LTD.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.,
Birmingham, England.
\jr*
*os**
fgh
The Story of the Lamp
\
iron
J&yo
El
lIP
7
m
The Lamp of To-day
In 1858 the Lamp came into its own.
From the crude petroleum obtained in that
year a safe illuminant, known as Kerosene,
was distilled. Lamps were designed to
give good results from the new mineral oil.
Improvements followed rapidly, culmina-
ting in the “Rayo” Lamp.
The kerosene of earlier days was sub-
jected to much experiment and gradually
an oil of the highest possible quality was
manufactured, which to-day is known as
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
Laurel Kerosene lights thousands of
Australasian homes with a soft, mellow
glow. It appeals to the housewife because
its slow burning means economy. For
lighting, heating and cooking, it cannot be
excelled. Laurel is our new trade mark
name for the highest quality American
Kerosene ever sold in Australasia and
replaces our old brand, White Rose.
Insist on Lourel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
La. 11
fgĥfghfg
fgh fgh
fgh fgh
The Inky Way.
The latest Victorian editor to get into
khaki is Percy Markham, of the Daylesford
Guardian. Besides being editor Percy is
part proprietor of the mountain sheet.
Following the example of his staff-chum,
George Lee, who enlisted early in the war,
gained a lieutenancy in the Light Horse,
and transferred to the Artillery “somewhere
in France,” F. B. Tremearne, of Melbourne
Herald, has volunteered for service.
Tremearne’s eldest brother, Major Newman
Tremearne, had a distinguished career in
the British Army before being killed in
France last year. His specialty was the
manners and customs of the Hausas, a West
African people who could give the Germans
points in gentlemanly behavior. F.B. was
with a Westralian paper before he joined
the Herald.
* * * *
“Chevron”: Another Argus boy is in
khaki. Herbert Davies, who ran the
paper’s motor column, has joined the motor
transport service. Davies’s elder brother
Bill looks after the combine’s cable service
in London, so if Herbert wrests the
D.S.O. from the fist of Fame, the news
should lose no time in speeding to Australia.
■**■**
Poetry pays if you pack it with the right
kind of feeling. On the strength of the
Sentimental Bloke, 30,000 copies of
Dennis’s “Ginger Mick” were ordered before
the book was published.
John Butler Cooper, whose “Coo-00-ee”
was reviewed by the Red Page the other
day, has blossomed as a novelist when well
into middle-age. Mr. Cooper is librarian at
the Melbourne Athenaeum, and two of his
sons are Billzaes. He has another novel
almost ready and is thinking of accompany-
ing it to London.
* * * *
The Age men, at the suggestion of their
Chief (L. V. Biggs), decided to send a
Christmas parcel to their six colleagues in
the trenches. With each parcel they sent
some quite pardonable lines written by
Ralph Simmonds, a perky young Englishman
who has made great headway since he joined
21 years ago. Here are two of the verses: —
Our cheeriest wishes here we send,
(And may you read them with a laugh),
From Sub. and Chief and Seniors,
And also from the “General Staff’’ ;
For in the bayonet charge, we guess,
That you are “leaders of the Press.”
We know you for a “fine bold type”
And just the sort to “head a column,”
And' anyone of us would take
An oath emphatically solemn
That none- of you have held aloof
When shell fire put you to the “proof. ’
* * * *
“P.N.”: The signing of articles during
the conscription campaign has been the usual
farce. Most papers have been quite
honest about it, and have said that the
article is written .to express not the
writer’s views, but the paper's. Some-
times one man’s name is given, some-
times the names of all who have had a
yarn about it before it was printed. Among
the bigger papers only the Sun (Sydney)
prints the writer’s name without any tag.
And in that ease the public is likely to get
quite a mistaken idea, because much of the
job lately done by Del. McCay, who signs
the leaders, etc., is usually done by Adam
.McCay, now in Melbourne giving Hughes a
hand with me campaign. Sydney D.T.
adopts another plan, for which something
can be ,said too —all the signing is done by
Braham, the editor, even on the one night
in the week - when he takes his spell. Whom
does the Legislature want to get at? The
writer? What for? They are not his senti-
ments. He is a journeyman, working to
plans, like a builder. The editor? Why give
him the advt.? Often he couldn’t write such
stuff if he tried. And, anyhow, he’s a jour-
neyman, too, building according to the office
plans.
* * * *
Victoria is presently to have a new jour-
nal devoted to the interests of the tall tim-
ber. The Vic. branch of the Australian
Forest League is about to appoint an editor
' and organiser (part-time) to arouse enthu-
siasm in the cause of timber conservation,
the use of Australian woods and the planting
of new areas. It seems a pity, however,
that the League can’t scrape up more than
the £5O per annum which it is offering for
the job.
* * * *
Amongst 531 new Bills introduced in the
Speck this session is one prohibiting the sale
of indecent publications; minimum penalty,
£5O. Of course the old difficulty has cropped
up: What is an indecent publication? One
that is “scientific, artistic or literary” is
not to come within the meaning of the Act.
But no provision has been made that the
case shall be tried before a P.M., who might
presumably have some sort of qualification,
and it looks as though the job will be left
to the gimlet of Stiggins, J.P., and the
intellect of Constable Mcßaton.
THE POET’S VOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BelovM ! 0 beloved one,
I write you this to tell you, dear,
That earth and sky and sea and sun,
Are all of mine when you are near.
My love for you is, as a fire
That burns with scented incense fine,
A thing beyond all base desire,
Exquisite, holy, chaste, divine.
Your eyes are humid pools of light,
There is a fragrance in your hair,
And even in this silent night
I feel your presence everywhere.
Adored of all, good-night, mine own,
The very stars your grace adore;
Believe me,
Ever thine a10ne....
Alicia, Ettie, Rose —O Lor’!
Whichever did I mean this for?
QUEENSLAND.
ZORA CROSS.


every™ OF SPORT and-
RECREATION Catered For.
We have the Finest Selection and Greatest Variety.
Trade (Can’t B Beat) Mark. Motto: “Goods Right—Prices Right.”
fgh
BOXING
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value ' 8/6
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 9/6
C. 8.8., Fighting-, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 11/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 02 13/6, 16/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 15/6,19/6,21/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6
8 oz
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING,
palms, C or 8 oz.
22/6
, curled hair, laced
25 /- 30 /-
BRYAN’S CHAMPION, extra special, Coz ' 25/-
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, Coz... 35/-
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 6/-
„ Best napa, ~ ~ - ij /
» Tan Leather, ~ ~ g/_
» very superior, „ cn/fi
„ Laced, ~ ~ 12/6 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)'
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.)
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 340 z. (Post 6d.)
7/6 each
3/6 each
15/6 pair
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with All
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
fgh
PUNCHING BALLS.
i We carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Bails. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
Keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6, 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast.... 8/6, 12/6 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 4_q j m
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 9/6, 12/6, 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spPal spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 52/6
Above balls fitted with Moseley's best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Exp'-.c: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, i/2.)
BALL GLOVES, 2/9, S/6, 4/6 pr. PLATFORMS,
33/-, 50/-, 80/ each. BALL AND SOCKET
SWIVELS, 1/6, 2/6 each. BALL-BEARING
SWIVELS, 3/6, 4/6, 5/- each.
We Specialise in All Kinds of Sporting Repair Work
For full particulars of all indoor and outdoor Sporting Materials, see
a copy of our new edition illustrated Sports Magazine Catalogue.
Free on application.
V
2S3EHB!
MA/riAPl.'felT
SYDINtY
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET ; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
Watermans
ForniiamPen
22
a
jk
The pen he used
in the Trenches
he is using now in the hospital.
Through that last gallant charge and
through many a tough day’s lighting
before, that pen reposed in his pocket
ready for (he moment when it, too,
should come into action. What a boon
it has been to him ! Always ready, the
instant he wanted to write, no matter
where he was, his Waterman’s Ideal
never failed him. If you want to do your
friend on Active Service a real kindness,
send him a Waterman’s Ideal, Safety
type, the best type for soldiers.
Three types— Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan,
U)<zJ(eti Corner,
London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
fgh
V
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
0
r
tVhes
ess
SAFETY
*J[ Enjoyable touring and efficient commercial transport
are ali<;e impossible without the sense of security imparted
by good tyres. The toughness of Avon rubber and the
strength of Avon casing reduce to a minimum the risk of
punctures or bursts, and the sure grip of the “ Sunstone *
ladder-grooved tread makes you as skid-proof as it is
possible to be —whatever the weather, whatever the road.
COMFORT
*j[ Superior resilience alone can reveal the maximum com-
fort of motoring on pneumatic tyres. Many a car owes
its reputation for luxurious springing and silky running to
the buoyant liveliness of its Avon Tyres.
ECONOMY
*}[ The same qualities of strength and resilience that
achieve safety and comfort necessarily cut down ultimate
costs —of petrol, repairs to chassis and tyres as well.
Avon economy is the economy of endurance —the typically
British sort of tyre beauty that is more than tread-deep.
The claim that Avon Tyres show lowest cost per mile rests
upon disinterested records of average mileage in everyday
service, open to investigation and capable of demon-
stration on your vehicle.
Agents :
N. J. HOWES & CO.,
212 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
H. C. PANNIFEX,
26 Market Street,
Melbourne
Made by the Avon Ind'H
Rubber Company, Ltd,,
at Melksham and Brad-
ford-on-Avon, England.
a
/s'
m
m
V#
' —
V*
M
A
WWW
m
s.
Ni
fi»
m
tel
rr
„jr \S
S'
¥syf
Mothers should try
Benger’s Food for themselves. Those who are nursing
will find the greatest benefit for both themselves and infant.
Take the Benger’s Food between meals, as an addition
to the daily diet. It promotes a high state of nutrition and
a full supply of natural milk.
fgĥ
Food
2i6A
although among the “lightest” foods known, is all nutri-
ment. Mothers, when overtired or out of sorts, will relish
and enjoy it; flavour with tea, chocolate, or coffee, for
a change.
Benger’s Fo;d is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture. It is sold in tin9
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it
Booklet and full particulars post free from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD,' MANCHESTER, England
BRANCH OFFICE: n 7 , Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Depdts throughout Canada.


Miss DOLLY PRIOR
Tells Her Little Secret.
Miss Dolly Prior, whose face is
so well known to Brisbaneites as
the girl who poses at the Pictures
as Mary Pickford, has hair over
41 inches in length, which is so
much envied by the ladies and
admired by all. Miss Prior is not
only a beauty, but a young actress
of talent and ability. She is ever
bright and charming, and she writes
for the benefit of other girls, tell-
ing them the secret of her sunny
nature.
Carthona,
Woronora Parade,
Oakleigh.
Rexona Proprietary Company,
Dear Sir, — Sydney.
I have been ill, and I wish to
tell you how valuable I have
found your wonderful Laxo-
Tonic Pills in restoring me to
health. They are a wonderful
blood purifier and tonic. For
anyone whose work is of a
sedentary character they are as
good as a trip to the country—
they scour the system and then
tone it, giving a feeling of
health and happiness which a
worker indoors finds it other-
wise impossible to acquire.
When my friends compliment
me on my glossy and abundant
hair and my good spirits, I
sometimes tell them my little
secret—a Laxo-Tonic Pill at
night and a bath with Rexona
Soap in the morning, and to
everyone I heartily recommend
them. Yours truly,
(Sgd.) D. PRIOR.
Miss DOLLY PRIOR,
from a photo.
L.axo-Tonic Pills can be taken at all times and under all conditions, by both
young and old alike, without the least risk and without any danger of unpleasant
after effects. Taxo-Tonic Pills assist the process of nature, give relish to the food,
and prevent exhaustion, nausea, sick headaches and other ailments to which women
are so accustomed. With the girl, the young woman, the mother, the middle-aged
woman and the woman of advanced years Taxo-Tonic Pills will prove to be a most
reliable friend.
Thousands of people take one every night at bedtime, to prevent disorders of the
Inver, Constipation, Bad Breath, Pimples and Headache. Try them for a week—take
one or two nightly.
Regular Size, 1/-; Double Size, 2/-
O
V
9
9
E/jLJL^
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS
MADAPOLAMS and DRILLS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Selvedge that they are getting the very
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. •
fgfgh
ghf
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
it you use freely several times a day
Rowland's
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS .
miridge’s!
lUjkglontc,
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND.
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Rift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Rifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
ghf
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Vision of Jehovah.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHAT shall it profit if the nations
rise,
Red from the sepulchres of Hell
distraught,
Lifting with sodden souls their bleeding eyes,
Stung with the vengeance of the sword they
sought ?
What shall it profit these or other men
Faltering, “Father!” to the cosmic sky,
Since this Thy vow: “Vengeance is mine,
Amen”?
0 Lord Jehovah, hear us! Hear our cry!
There rolled away the boltings from the door,
And Lord Jehovah, very God of all,
Looked down upon the dumb earth’s thresh-
ing floor,
Marking bow Death wove savagely her pall,
And seasoned Labor, loosed of thick desire,
Sat ’midst the ruins of her territory,
While Hope, her first-born, with young lips
afire,
Plucked at her withered breasts in agony.
Behold, upon the right hand of the Lord
The shuddering Christ, with sin-remember-
ing eyes,
Seeing, like pallid moths, the phantom
horde
Of Christian martyrs and crusaders rise!
Pierced with the peril of impassioned prayer,
How in the red arena did they crowd
Or on the holy place He died to spare,
Broidered with bloody thread their battle
shroud!
Left of the Lord, in tent ambrosial,
Mahomet trembled at his peaceful shrine,
E’en as Abdallah at that festival
When, stooping o’er his fragrant bridal wine,
One whispered of the virgin multitude
Dead for the love of him so falsely fair,
Shivered, and sought in pious interlude
To drown forgetfulnes in honest prayer.
As in the blinding mid-light of the world
When out of chaos swung the scent of day,
And from the loins of God the oceans
swirled,
He with what charity breathed o’er the clay
Flame of His thought and passion of His
mind;
As in that hour when first He viewed His
work,
Mute-eyed and grave, He sorrowed for man-
kind,
So now He anguished still, and all was
murk.
Murk, where Ambition in her muddied gown,
Robbed of her thanedom, begged for common
alms;
Murk, where the swollen rivers glided down,
Art hid the festered stumps of her torn
arms;
Murk, where in terror Faith fled swift apart,
Seeing upon the field where Honor shone
Greed with her blood stained talons in her
heart,
Plucking the soul of things to feast thereon.
Then spake Jehovah in a voice of woe,
And all the heavens vibrated with the
sound :
“Adam, is this thy seed that grows so low,
Wrought in Our image, rotting in the
ground ?”
Answered the prophets in a sad accord :
“Yea! till the heavens vanish like a scroll!
Yea! till the wild beasts herd unfearing,
Lord!
Yea! till the camel witnout pangs shall
foal.”
Wrath was Jehovah at the spoken word —
Wrath as when Lucifer for ever fell,
Weakening the nations as he fought and
erred,
Venting his fury at the gate of Hell.
But through the depthless chasms of the air
Broke like a wail the voice of many men,
And on the hills of heaven, summoned there,
Stood the archangel Gabriel again.
Pity was his left wing, Comfort his right,
And at his back the hosts of heaven
swarmed,
Looked to the reeling earth through veins of
light,
Bowed to Jehovah, to His ire conformed ;
Saw how He raised Plis living arms to smite
Nation on nation all the wide earth through,
AYhen o’er His wrath He heard that cry con-
trite :
“Father, forgive, they know not what they
do.”
Jehovah stayed His mighty arm and wept.
And lo! a vision followed, and He saw
How from the golden west Olympus crept
By Zeus, the mind-made God, ruled as
before;
How sprang Yggdrasil on the filmy right,
While Odin to Valhalla heroes led.
Last gleamed Westminster Abbey in the
night
Where men held sacred service for their
dead.
Like to an opal sunset when Romance
Weaves her bright tapestry about the sea,
And in each color of the wide expanse
Flutters a leaf of ocean’s history,
Battles and sunken galleys of renown,
Treasure of buccaneers and Viking horde —
All in one rainbow radiance scattered down,
So shone Olympus to the holy Lord.
Banquet was spread upon the godly board;
The festival of Aphrodite dawned ;
Green as a burning emerald was the sward
Where at the feet of Zeus the muses fawned,
Drinking from bowls of pearl the nectar
sweet,
While cherubs fanned them with a palm of
gold;
Rose-bellied nymphs rolled in the budding
wheat,
Satyrs about the clustering vines made bold.
Then came the full-limbed goddess of the
foam
Led by Apollo through the lanes of light;
Doves at her breathing flocked, and roses
clomb
Over her footprints in the flame of flight.
Fell all about the mellow fruit of joy,
As she the feastings honored there above,
Till reeling Bacchus, with his lips acloy,
Sipped the slow wine-drops from her breasts
of love.
The Lord Jehovah veiled His eyes with fire,
But turned to rightward, where Valhalla
rose;
Turquoise the massive doors, the steps sap-
phire,
The burnished floor ten thousand cameos,
And to the gates of beryl Balder came,
Robed like the sun in saffron of the morn,
Seeing across the rainbow bridge of fame
How into Asgard came the souls new-born.
As bold Don Roderic, at the strange tower
stared,
Wondering how in Toledo magic wrought
Spires of such stateliness, and scarcely dared
Clash his brave stirrups there, but fearing
nought
Entered and found that which he long had
sought,
So stared each hero in a fixed amaze
As at Valhalla’s halls —his battle fought—
Entered he in, td rest eternal days.
Torn with the tempest of tremendous woe,
Jehovah, in the travail of His tears,
Spake, as when in the fore-morn long ago
Dropped from His lips the language of the
spheres:
“O Adam ! Adam ! Was thy mind so base?
What could it profit that I gave My son?”
But answered Westminster through Jesus’
grace:
“Hallowfid be Thy name. Thy will be done.”
The vision changed as watched the hosts on
high ;
Valhalla and Olympus passed away,
And in their places, lo! men fought to die,
Caught in the reeking stench of rotting
clay ;
Matted their fragrant locks with smoking
gore,
Horse, man and priest shrieking in unity,
Hot from the steaming lust-leap of red war,
Staining the portals of eternity.
How o’er their mangled skulls the night-dew
fell,
How through their dying limbs they prayed
in vain,
Prayers that their clotted lips would never
tell,
Sealed by the bleedinv surcingle of Pain!
And as Decay, Life’s swollen parasite,
Followed the harlot Death from feast to
feast,
Nowhere in all the ghastly world was light
Save where Westminster glimmered in the
east.
There, as the crimson-breasted battle jade
Wallowed within the bowels of the brave,
Mothers and sweethearts in the abbey
prayed,
Kneeling in memory of the men they gave:
“Lighten our darkness, we . beseech thee,
Lord.”
Snatches of service floated thus to God,
Mingling with clinking echo of a sword
Shocked in the tumult of a broken squad.
And at the abbey door Avidity,
Measuring her faith by Wealth’s dividing
rod,
Bent low to mock, but hearing suddenly
“Abate their pride, assuage their malice,
God,”
Turned from the holy place and fled afeared
Into War’s arms, where she will never die,
But mouth the thighs of Hate with gall be-
smeared,
And suck the stinging lips of Envy dry.
Silence, with muffled breath, late slept afield,
Drawin~ her nets of thought about her bed.
Glutted with blood, War dropped his gory
shield,
Nor sound nor sigh escaped the myriad
dead ;
When from the abbey came the groan of
men:
“The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
love .
Of God be with us evermore. Amen”. . ..
Jehovah moaned, and closed the doors above.
What shall it profit, then, if nations fall—
What merit, since we may not understand?
For Dawn came roguishly at Time’s faint
call,
Looking with sleep-sweet eyes upon the land,
And saw amidst the horror and the .woe
A Teuton and a Briton lying there,
Wound in each other’s lifeless arms, and lo!
Facing each other in their dead despair.
The lilting wind was rippling through their
hair,
The splashing sunlight dancing on their
sleeves;
A robin sniffed the blossom of the air,
And sang to them of Spring and rustling
leaves.
The dawn unrobed and it was day again :
There came no mourners to the solemn dead.
The floating clouds brake into gentle rain,
The silent skies unmoved swam overhead.
QUEENSLAND
ZORA CROSS.
Cutting a Long Story Short.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ELL, to cut a long story short,”
VV said Snigsby, “they both got
married.”
“Who got married?” I asked, for the
mixed reminiscences of the doings of many
people left me in doubt as'to the hero and
heroine of his narrative.
Snigsby had been the keeper of lodgings
for years, though his wife did most of the
keeping; and, having very little except time
to spend, but plenty of that, he was very
discursive in detail. Likewise, he was a
man who hated to be brought too suddenly
to a point, so he began the whole narrative
over again.
“There was this young feller I was talk-
ing about with the queer notions, and the
girl that was supposed to be married to
him I was telling you of, and the actor-chap
1 mentioned. You heard me telling you of
them, didn’t you? Well, they got married.”
“Have it your own way,” I said : “but I
thought you were telling me mainly about
the young woman who used to wait at the
top of the stairs for the young fellow while
her husband was sleeping off the drink. Was
it they who got married?” ,
(Continued on next page.)


IS IT KIDNEY TROUBLE?
Nothing Much.” —This is what the
kidney sufferer will tell you when you
ask him what is the matter. You can
see how miserable and hopeless he looks ;
his skin is yellow, his eyes puffy and
swollen; he is afraid of his life to move
quickly, or to bend. He is never free
from a pain or burning ache in the back ;
now and then be comes over so dizzy that
he nearly falls ; his heart acts strangely.
He has bladder and urinary troubles,
rheumatic pains, and is always feeling
tired and worn out; he is sleepless and
restless.
“Nothing Much!” —He little knows
how serious his trouble is, and how
every day draws him nearer the fatal
Bright’s disease or dropsy. Take your
trouble in time, and begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, the reliable
kidney and bladder medicine, at the first
sign of anything wrong. Read how
thoroughly the Sydney people who
speak here have been cured ; it will
encourage you.
E very Picture
Te/ts A Story ~
m
m
m
I
Tired out from morning till night —
Head lad—heart lad —rheumatic and dropsical
Have you suspected your kidneys?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. Henry Holder, Euronga, Amhurst Street, North
Sydney, says:—“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
indeed a wonderful kidney medicine. I have proved this.
For a long time I suffered agony from backache and
kidney trouble, and only those who have been afflicted
in this way have any idea what I went through. My
limbs swelled considerably, the kidney secretions were
thick and cloudy, with a red sediment, and I had
agonising pains in my back. When I stooped it was
as much as I could do to stand up straight again
without assistance, my back was so stiff and lame.
I was treated by a doctor and tried all sorts or
remedies, but nothing* gave me the slightest relief. 1
was naturally very worried about the serious state or
my health, and' when Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills
were brought under my notice I decided to try them.
It was a grand thing for me that I got this remedy,
for seven bottles cured me I can not
speak too highly of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and recommend them with every confidence to other
sufferers.”
Mrs. T. Smith, 37 Briggs Street, Camperdown,
Sydney, says:— “A member of my family suffered
agony from rheumatic pains all over the body, and
was completely crippled with the ailment for months.
The pains were particularly severe across the small of
the back, just over the kidneys. We had a doctor
treating the case for a good while, but his mt mi
did not do any good, and at last he said he wasmfmd
nothing more could be done. We then tried hospital
treatment, but that also failed. It was right on top
of this that we were advised to use Doan s Backache
Kidney Pills, and although we had very little hope
that they would do any good, we got some to try
!E, After taking two or three bottles there woe a
little improvement, so we persevered with them until
a perfect cure was effected, using in all twelve bottlej
Wo cannot say enough m praise of Doans Backacne
Kidney Pills, and consider the cure a marvellous
m\
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
gh
. * y T n a , resigne< ! wa y*
r n ± i youn ® feller, he said—“this young
eiier lie comes to the house and says to me
oae 'j> y: ff av ? you got a room?’ ’Well,
what d yer think we have got?’ I says. ‘We
dont sell oysters.’ ‘That’s the sort of
MnTiTJTT!,? S et ’’ he , say ® yT I a faugh,
j x Bets see your
l,i a iL.f )le A YT ’ f a k es the best
™ ble T ’ l A after h l m# fakin’ hands that
l y a S, sure .1. &°f the money in
‘ . • m suspicious ol them sort of
<„•§.* • , . ... , . , ~
, , ' 1 ainves with linn half an hour
, 'hoV - a T'u f s * l ! 1 ’ fkey was. She does
Hicuokmg they do on the balcony, and
J . keep mostly to themselves an’ there’s
lit thing to complain about; but the missus
says to me one night—-you know what
vomen are.—-Them people ain’t married,’
she says; and she keeps worrying me about
it. as if it mattered to me as long as they
veie respectable. .
“They weren’t neither, an’ he cudn’t make
no bones about it. Pie didn’t believe in
marriage, he didn’t, and he said so. Like a
lot of young fellers he was proud of gettin’
up against other people’s ideas. A bit raw
he was, like a lot of youngsters who kid
themselves a lot of things before they’ve
been grilled on the fire of life, which
sometimes overdoes ’em.
“Well, because I like the two of them,
and partly because* of what the wife says
about their not being married, I takes a
friendly interest in them. The wife likes
them,. too, an’ when, after she’s been
worry in’ me, I says, ‘All right, I’ll tell ’em
we want the room,’ she says, ‘No; but I
T* 1 ~ speak to the priest about
lem. bo they went on living in sm at
our louse, and enjoym it. An, to cut a
ong stoiy short, I think they got as much
outer it as if they d been married.
“But, though that was all right for a few
weeks, it didn’t last long. After a time I
got wise that the girl wasn’t as happy as
she seemed to be. It wasn’t that I listened
at the door,” he explained with a defiant
look, “but I heard a. good deal of what they
had to say. Picked it up, as you might say.
“Everything would be going merry and
bright, an’ you’d think they was Adam and
Eve living in Eden with only one chair
worth sitting on in it, when she’d say,
strokin’ his hair most like, ‘Don’t you
think it’d be better if we got married?’
and he’d just laugh an’ say, ‘I couldn’t love
you any more if we did !’ _ But once started
she’d keep on. ‘Supposing there was a
baby,’ she’d say, an’ he’d laugh and say it’d
make no difference; fifty marriages couldn’t
make it more their baby. In the morning,
when she went about the house after he’d
gone there was a troubled sort of look at
the back of her eyes.
“After a time the way she kept coming
back to the same old point got to irritating
him, as you know _ that sort of thing does,
Instead of answering in a lover-like way
he’d get impatient and say: ‘lf I did a
thing that I don’t believe in, it’d be the
end of love between, us’; or, ‘Again! I tell
you I don’t believe in marriage !’ Later on
she’d flare back sometimes, and say he
was conceited with his ideas, and he’d learn
sense when he was older. Generally they’d
make it up; but once he left the room so
quick that he nearly fell over me. I was
only fixing up the oilcloth.
“A couple of days later he got in a
temper and went out of the house for ever;
but he was back in half an hour with some
stout and oysters to dry her tears. By this
time things weren’t working at all smooth.
In general they was just as much in love
with one another as ever; but, to cut it
short, her nag about marriage was wearing
on him, and the things a man says when
he’s angry were hurting her. I’m not
blaming her. mind you; a woman naturally
feels that her position’s insecure when she
ain’t married, and she just goes on making
it insecure or hopeless because of her
anxiety.
“There was this actor-chap staying in
the house, and he took an interest in the
pair. He was a lonely sort of chap, who,
though he was grey at the sides of his hair,
was still youngish. He used to bring _ home
supper, and have it with ns in the kitchen
sometimes, and then he’d say, ‘That poor
little lady upstairs! She’ll lose that
husband of hers if she’s not careful. Pie’s
young and restless.’ Or something like that,
“One night, when he’s a bit potty, the
actor-chap stays with me after the wife’s
gone to bed, and gets some more beer.
“ ‘My wife’ he begins suddenly, and
stops. ' Then he gets up in a restless sort
of way as if he’s going off to bed; then
lie comes back, sits on the table and helps
himself to another glass.
“‘Didn’t know you were married,’ I says.
“‘Neither I was,’ he said, the beer
making him confidential. ‘But the little
girl who should have been my wife’
“He stopped, and when I said, as a sort
of lead for him to go on, ‘Your wife?’ he
just says:
“ ‘She’s married. Good night. I’ll take
one of those bottles upstairs with me.’ xPnd
upstairs he goes.
“That puts me wonderin’. The actor-
chap is on the burst nearly all next day,
and he scares the girl when, meeting her on
the stairs, he squeezes her hand, and keeps
holding it while he tells her that if ever he
can do anything for her he’ll do it. That
night I bought some beer, an’ after the
wife had gone to bed I told him that another
glass might pull him together,
“ ‘Last night I told you—something,’ he
says. ‘That little lady upstairs reminds
me of my own little girl. We never thought
of getting married—at least I never thought
of it; it didn’t seem to matter, anyway, as
long as we cared about one another. There
always seemed to me something sordid
about the marriage business, just as’
He stopped there, because, of course, even
if we knew otherwise, the people upstairs
were supposed to be married.
“ ‘I went on a tour,’ he says, ‘and had to
leave her, because she wasn’t engaged by
the show, and me own salary wasn’t too
good; and one of the first letters I get
contains news, and she says I must marry
her and do it right off. Well, I was willing
if it would make her more comfortable, so
I wrote saying I’d marry her when we got
back. The tour was supposed to be tour
weeks, but it lasted six, and then we went
to Melbourne. I wrote saying she had no
need to come down, as 1 was finishing after
the first piece; but again I was kept on, in
an indefinite sort of way.’
“ ‘Damn it!’ he says, and drinks a full
glass off and walks away restlessly, and
comes back and fills another glass.
“ ‘lt was my fault. Moving from town
to town, I forgot to write often, and all
that. When I got to Sydney I found my
little girl married.
“‘I knew about it before. She wrote me
saying that she had been waiting and wait-
ing, and was quite satisfied that, being
away, I had forgotten her. She had written
to me in Auckland, asking me-finally if I
was the same (the letter followed me all
over the place, and reached me later) and
then she had married —for the sake of the
child.
“ ‘She told me when I met her —I had
felt like killing her, but I got over that —
that she would always love me, but she
asked me if I loved her to make things
easier for her, and let her alone. And it’s
my child! That’s where Good-night!’
ho says suddenly.
“Next day, fancying he may have offended
her, he apologises to the girl upstairs, and
after that they get quite friendly ; and once
or twice they have walks together. Her
young feller he gets flashes of rage when
he hears of it. Well, to cut it short, there’s
the situation, those two quarrelling every
night, and the actor-chap getting as friendly
as can be.
“One night there’s a worse row than ever.
The young chap goes out furious, but comes
back after a time and finds the girl talking
to the actor-chap at the top of the stairs.
“ ‘Hullo!’ he says to the actor-chap in a
fighting sort of way.
“ ‘I had just come in,’ said the actor-chap
quietly, ‘and Mrs. Brian had asked me if
I’d seen you.’
“Well, he couldn’t say anything after
that; but afterwards the two were wrang-
ling for an hour, and I heard him say that
he’d come back then, but it was the last
time he’d stand any nonsense on the
marriage business.
“Next day the girl looks pretty doleful;
and the actor-chap, meeting her, gets her,
after a lot of-persuadin’, to go to a matinSe
to cheer her up. The young feller is in by
the time they reach home, and for a moment
I thought there was going to be a row. But
the actor-chap carries it off well, and there
was nothin’ doin’ till the two were in their
room.
“‘Well, why don’t you marry me?’ says
the girl.
“He was in a flame in a minute, and
shot out of the house. And he didn’t come
back, neither.
“So, to finish up,” said Snigsby, “they
got married.”
“What!” I said. “The girl and the
actor? And what became” ?
“I’m telling you,” said Snigsby, ponder-
ously. “The next afternoon young Brian
passes the girl standing in the street near
a marriage-shop close to where he works.
He was going to pass without noticing her,
but he turned back.
“ ‘What are you doing, here?’he demanded,
harshly.
“■ ‘l’m going to be married,’ she said,
with a sort of defiance.
“ ‘What?’
“ ‘What right have you to object? You
won’t marry me yourself!’
He seemed staggered and went pale.
“Come on,” he said suddenly, taking her
by the hand and moving towards the
marriage-shop.
“ ‘What do you mean?’ she says.
“ ‘Will you? With me?’ he says.
“When it was over they came out, but
Brian didn’t seem too happy.
“ ‘I didn’t think you thought anything of
that actor-fellow,’ he said glumly.
“ ‘Neither I do,’ she said.
“He seemed more pleased, but not entirely
glad.
“-‘But you came here to marry him,’ he
said.
“‘I didn’t,’ she answered. ‘I came here
because I thought I was bound to meet you.
I came to marry you. Oh, Jack!’ You
know how a woman can say that!
“Well, he kissed her there, in the street.
When they came home that night he had
some champagne and cakes with him, and
he brought some down for us to share with
them —said they were keeping up a sort of
birthday.
“When the actor-chap came home after
the show I told him. He didn’t waste time:
he goes out and gets some beer just as the
pubs were closing, and keeps me up, laugh-
ing and singing, till morning. I never see a
man so happy in my life.”
HAMER.
The Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sometimes when daily pleasures cloy
I lie awake the whole night long,
And all my being thrills with joy
And all my heart with song.
The song is very faint and sweet,
Its words are quite unknown to me;
But words would mar its tremulous beat,
Its utter ecstasy.
The tender glow pervasive is
More silvern than the youngling Moon’s,
And sways like grass swept by the breeze
Of summer afternoons.
But when the song weds with the glow,
Soft pillowed on their nuptial breath,
With zest ineffable (I know)
I’ll kiss the brefasts of Death.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


W estingho\ise (mo.o Chain Drives
i MB
mm fgS?
HaH Hi
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE ROCKER-JOINT eliminates frie
tion, and as there is no slip, power losses
are reduced to a minimum. Our chain
business is constantly increasing, prov-
ing that engineers are realising the
advantages to be gained by using
ROCKER-JOINT CHAINS.
Ask for Booklet 8.M.310 when making your
inquiry.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
[1
gh
DON'T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Loekyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them bv
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
safeguard \om Health
QtJ.Collfs Browses
CWorody»e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
*, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
[A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, &/-, 5/-.
Made in Englandi
f
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
i -
3
■■. w.
'
...
■■■
9 V -
,/■-Mr* &> - y
Z : X
| i.
h ./ mu
s! —^
*SBJ
.'r
. .
■ . ■• -■ • ■.’ . •
'^Ly»W*
S»S&|?V
StlSlif
wmm
mm
W ! ws
Eckersley’s Soda Fountains
and Aerated Water Machines
Specially designed for CAFES, HOTELS, etc.
SAVE jobber’s profits by purchasing DIRECT from the manufacturers.
As we are the sole manufacturers of the apparatus we sell, we can absolutely guarantee
th. workmanship of oor in,filiation.. Complete PblltS ffOIII £25 8 UpWafdS.
8 SONS,
Rawson Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney
(Opp. Main Entrance Railway Station).
QUEENSLAND. —Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
S. AUSTRALIA.—A. M. Bickford & Sons, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
N. ZEALAND.—John Rigg & Son, Dixon Street, WELLINGTON.
“Indispensable”
—a word largely used in these days —may be said to accurately express,
in so far as any single word can, what is the careful and considered
conclusion which has been arrived at by many people who use
Beecham’s Pills. They consider that Beecham’s Pills are “indispen-
sable” to their health, and, as a matter of course, to their happiness;
and they never allow themselves to be without a supply of this valuable
medicine in their homes. This latter is an excellent idea, and one
worthy of imitation —for there is no doubt whatever, that, as a preven-
tive medicine —one that may be taken with confidence when perhaps
only an “out of sorts” feeling is experienced and before any definite
ailment has developed—Beeeham’s Pills are a positive boon. They do
good all round;— they tone up the stomach, correct the action of the
liver, regulate the bowels and are a powerful agent in purifying the
blood. It is certainly a good plan never to be without
BEECHAJVI’S
PILES
m m* <m wm m w wm *
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10(36 pills), 1/lg (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
fi
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 7260, Telegrams—
-4 lines. Australia,
P.O. Box 1610. Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. . V isitors have the preference. of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Maih Dining-room, seating 600
Guests v The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tne
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
DAIMLER
ƒg
StOTOR CARRIAGES •
Cosi#erciai, Vehicles ~
AfiRICCffIIRAL TRACTORS
TNCDAIMLER COMPANY w*
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK’S
; MALTED MILK
©
•aff=a>
Motorists’Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need ; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us—you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
S 3
A
to v
W.
c
'A case fat*
Wincarnus *
Run-down
When your system is under
mined by worry or over
work when your vitality
is lowered when you £eel
“ any how " when your
nerves are “on edge ' —■
when the least exertion tires
you—you are in a Run-down
condition. Your system is
like a plant that is drooping
for want of water. And just
as water revives* a drooping
plant—so ‘ Wincarms gives
now life and new vitality to
a “run-down ” constitution,
Because ‘ Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power
It is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker, and a Nerve
Food—all m one Therefore
fghg
creates new strength, new
blood, pew nerve force ancl
new vitality The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful You can feel it
doing you good. You can
feel your whole system being
surcharged with new vitality
and new life That is why
over io,ooo Doctors recom-
mend * Winearms.
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly Get well the
‘Wmcarnis’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
• Wincarnis ’ is made in Eng-
land by COLEMAN & CO.,
Ltd., Wincarnis Works, Nor-
wich. You can buy * Wincar-
nis ’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/-
and 6/6, but if you experience
any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distribut-
ing Agents, Fassett& Johnson,
5/7 Barrack Street, Sydney.


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
MANGROVITE
LEATHER
alufiMl
whioh is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
MINERS’ DRILL STEEL.
SOLlD—Octagon, dumpy and heavy section cruciform.
HOLLOW—Round, octagon and hexagon.
SMELTER BAR STEEL—Octagons.
MINING HAMMERS AND PICKS.
BLISTER, SHEAR and SPRING STEEL. PILES. HACKSAW BLADES.
COALCUTTER STEEL. SHAFTING. SPRING WIRE.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Australian;379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne: Chpffiplrl Fnalanrl
Offices—l 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle. OCCU ’
Hardie s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT. ACID S ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
And at Melbourne; “Courier” Buildings,
Brisbane; and Adelaide.
WOLFE’
Should be in
Every Home.
Buy Whole Bottles.
Made from the Best Selected
Barley & Italian Juniper Berry.
SCHNAPPS
Tangye Portable Lampless Oil Engine.
“Buncle” Chaff cutters
We beg to notify Farmers
and Chaffcutting Con-
tractors that we are now
SOLE AGENTS for New
South Wales for above
celebrated Cutters, and
are in a position to supply
various types and sizes of
these well-known
Machines promptly on re-
ceipt of order.
-;V : 'h
m
m
CJayton & Sliuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Write us for illustrated and descriptive Catalogues.
One of the above Cutters, driven by either a TANGYE LAMPLESS OIL
ENGINE or CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable Steam Engine, forms an
ideal CHAFFCUTTING PLANT, and will give wonderful satisfaction.
Sole Agents—
hfgh
fgh
Tangye Oil Engine driving Centrifugal Pump for Irrigating.
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Tangye Pumps and Irrigation Plants.
Nicholson & Morrow Farm Implements.
Wolseley Sheep-shearing Machines.
E.R.B. Separator Engines.
E.R.B. Farm Pump Engines.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
©
THE
A splendid investment
The pastoralis't who realises that the “best is the
cheapest” in the long run, will be well satisfied with the
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines —made by one of the
world’s most reputable firms.
They run without a hitch —free from costly breakdowns
—and are designed to meet all modern requirements-
your requirements.
Write to-day for fully-descriptive printed matter, post
free from nearest branch.
Austra.la.sian Agents:
Dalgcty & Company, Ltd.—All Branches.
fgh
Safety First — Service Always.
It has become an important part in the education of the Engineer to-day
that SAFETY must become a very necessary feature in every Factory and
Engineer’s Shop.
DODGE
Power-Transmission Equipment
Pulleys, Self-Oiling Bearings, Adjustable Shaft Hangers, Friction Clutches, etc.
are fully up to requirements of all Mill and Factory Laws, and will appeal
to all competent Engineers and Factory Owners interested in the Safety
Problem.
-'5
APPLY TO
SOLE AGEN
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
A nd asH for Catalogue ** Power Transmission Appliances.'*
Australian Made.
Australian Material.
Australian Labor. Australian Owned.
ĥfg
The “ABBOTT” Filter.
An Australian Production of the Highest Merit.
Proved by Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
AVOID TYPHOID and
HYDATIDS.
fgh
Filters for Hotels, Cordial
Factories, etc., a Speciality.
PRICES from
wm*
20/-
gh
Sole
Manufadurers:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD
1
