

enia
e
R. G. WATKINTS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mini ng Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
tt 0
1-1 3
r p
b «
(/) o
CD
0
0
d
2
H
P
a
M
a
in
o
Hi
0)
w
0
d
5*
M
H
*
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST,
■ ■■■■
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Out qc PttiU.
mf
EOM»rRC<!I
"Used in plenty
Makes forty look
like twenty"
VALUABLE FOR TAN
AND SUNBURN
Made in Australia by'
fKDtffICKSTEAfiKSiC?
SYDNEY.
T Take it back. t
ImustTiavc—
hutton's
PincApplc Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs
•Junket;
HANSENS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
GOLF
BALLS
“THE SILVER KING”
THE BEST BALL
OF ALL
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLF
BALLS
If you have a room that you’d
like to panel, or are building
a new house, you would be
wise to look into the advan-
tages of Amiwud. It is the
most modern wall and ceiling
material.
TO
-i
nr
ir
It beats lath and plaster, tor
it is so strong:, so attractive,
so easily used. We should
like to send you samples and
booklets showing its use.
The Paraffine Paint Go* (D, |,
Evans, Australasian Mana-
ger), Challiw House, Sydney.
AMIWUD Wall Board
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L~
LOCOMOTIVE. GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
STOCK OF ALL. DESCRIPTIONS.
IRON Se MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
ROLLING
RAILWAY
M WAGGONS.
GRANVILLE,
7" N.S.W.
*
SHREDDER DISCS.
HADFIELD
Stone-Breakers
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY. “
ROAD-MAKING
MACHINERY.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sensfc of Clean
Freshness to the Moutn^
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacv of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
lavender
' WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1892. ]
[Thursday, May 18, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.WAustralia? for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW WAR BOOKS
(Postages shown in •parentheses.)
From Mods to Ypre* with French, by Frederick
Coleman, illus. 5/- (3d.).
The Secret Memoirs of Bertha Krupp. 2/9 (2d.).
Hindenburg-’s March into London, trans. from Ger-
man. 1/8 (2d.).
Over There, by Arnold Bennett. 1/6 (Id.).
The Soul of the War, by Phillip Gibbs. 5/- (4d.).
and Pawns, by Mary Rinehart. 5/-
My Secret Service iri Vienna, Sofia, etc., etc. 2/9 (2d
The Last Lap, by T. A. Cook. 1/0 (Id.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
HUDSON’S “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Pre-
vention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.” __ _ T
Unlike cough medicines “E UMEN T H O
JUJUBES” do not interfere with the Digestion,
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal e -
mentation of the food when taken after men.?-
The Red Page
ANZAC
They went out* knoiving not to what they
- went, ' - \
And when, ttey found their ordeal Death
and Htll,
Then turned it into glory. 'Thousands fell,
To their high destiny obedient,
To pay the cost of nationhood content.
Ah, yes! They are contented now. How
tcell
They died they knew not when they heard
Death's knell,
And we, who knotc, through tears, tee bow
assent.
And those who held the line, from day to
day,
And month to month, till courage grew
assured,
Who toiled and fought, and slept to fight
again ,
Just men, with doubt, and thirst, and
wounds, and pain,
We count them happy, too —to have
endured
And battled on, in valor —not dismay.
MARY A. K. KOBB.
Fiction
Welsh.
My People, by Caradoc Evans (Melrose),
has evidently annoyed his people. These
stories of the peasantry of West Wales are
written with so grim and so ugly a realism
that they sefem the chronicles of a savage
race strangely sur,yiying in that forgotten
corner of somewhat civilised Great Britain.
The picture he relentlessly limns is that of
a primitive, superstitious, dour and dreadful
race whose tribal god was named Wowser.
This Welshman draws an awful indictment
against his own people. His effect of aloof-
ness from this age is got partly by his
device of translating literally into English the
original Welsh, partly by his use of almost
Biblical language. The fact that most of his
characters bear Biblical names —or names
that look like Biblical appellations—like Sad-
rach, Deio, Eben, lanto, Essec, Puah, Adam,
Lamech, Shemmi, appreciably helps the illu-
sion. Then God is always referred to as
the Big Male or the Big Man, and Heaven
is the place where the soul wears the White
Shirt. And the usual method adopted by a
man who goes courting is to throw gravel
against the window of the desired maid. If
the gir\ thereupon puts her head out of
the window and informs the swain where
the ladder is kept, a wedding would
probably follow. These aboriginals speak a
language that is appallingly frank. Safe
behind the impenetrable barrier of their lan-
guage they call a spade a spade—in italics.
And Caradoc Evans imperturbably trans-
lates that spade into unblushing English—
in fact, this book is, in parts, as frank as the
Bible.
Consider the author’s archaic diction, evi-
dently a direct translation from the Welsh:
“‘Why speak you so foolish?’ said Abram.
‘Where am I to put the straw and the fowls?
Little, blockhead bach, is your understand-
ing !.... Religious Big Man, give you now
me strength —the strength you gave the little
apostles—to cast out the Evil Spirit from old
Silas.’
“He took in his hand his new carriage
whip, aud held it as he used to the thresher,
and he brought the thong down upon Silas’s
back, and belly, and arms, and face.
“Nansi made weepful sounds.”
And thus speaks Bern-Davydd, the Little
Big Man (the pastor) of Capel Sion:—
“Evan Rhiw; what are your works in
Capel Sion? Did not the Big Man say,
‘Bern bach, speak to me the sacrifices of
Evan Rhiw for my Terrible Temple.’ ‘Little
Big Man,’ I answered, ‘the least of my flock
gives more than him.’... .Evan Rhiw,
swifter is the hand of the Lord than the
water which turns Old Daniel’s mill. Awful
are the fingers that will grasp you by your
rib trousers and throw you through the
spouting flames into the Fiery Pool.”
When the recalcitrant Evan Rhiw repents,
he comes to make his peace with his pastor.
The shrewd preacher demands to know the
name of his sacrifice—which means that he
has to propitiate the pastor with a gift.
Evan Rhiw modestly starts with butter: —
“This day the wench Sara Ann is churn-
ing, and is she not bringing him a pound of
little butter?”
“Evan Rhiw, there is no sound of such a
sacrifice in the Bible.”
“And a tin pitcher full of buttermilk.”
“Did Abram offer the three Strangers but-
termilk. Evan?”
“And a big cabbage with a white heart.”
“The Children of Israel, .Evan bach, ate
flesh.”
“And a full wheelbarrow of potatoes.”
“Tarry you awhile,” said Bern-Davydd,
“and I will commune with the Big Mam”
Presently he made utterance: “This is what
the Great One of Capel Sion says: ‘I will
abate my oppression of Evan Rhiw if he
makes a sacrifice of a pig.’ ”
The preacher got his pig.
These because of their language
and their style, are difficult to read. They
present a dreadful picture of a primitive
community; but it is a picture of gloomy
shadows with the sunlight left out. And
there must be sunlight sometimes in those
Welsh valleys. Caradoc Evans is doubtless
truthful, but he does not speak the whole
truth. He is sincere to his art, which is
grim realism. One fancies that he got
savagely angry over the sickly idyllic
presentation of Welsh life that suf-
fices for the average popular Welsh
novelist and the usual reader. and
conceived his book as a counterblast to
that pernicious romanticism, just James
Douglas bombed the celebrated Kailyard
School of fiction with his bitter realism in
The House with the Green Shutters. But
that novel was a work of art; My People is
too slight a thing for it to rank with that
solitary masterpiece. But it is artistically
sincere—which is more than can be said for
the usual romantic Welsh novel.
English.
A. Neil Lyons gives quantity but not his
usual high level of quality in his latest col-
lection of short stories, Moby Lane (Lane,
per Dymock’s Library). These dainty and
humorous sketches date back to a forgotten
epoch—ante-bellum England. _ Apart from
the admirable literary use which the author
has made of his material, the picture that
remains of rural England, and particularly
of the rural Englanders, is a depressing and
hopeless one. These ignorant rustics afford
A. Neil Lyons ample opportunity for humor
and irony; but the lighter literary graces are
wasted upon such material: what is needed
is a method more brutal. It is the hopeless
conservatism and muddle of rural England
that is responsible for the Hun’s opinion of
the race: and luckily the Kaiser has put an
end to that. But it is too much to find an
author of A. Neil Lyons’s power content to
keep these vestiges of a doomed civilisation
merely as literary pets, and to ask us to be
amused at their antics when he plays with
them. In these dreadful days inefficiency
should not be stroked: it should be strafed.
But, at least, the author has not made the
mistake of Caradoc Evans about his race:
he has put in their goodness as well as their
evil.
Australian
The popular wife of Admiral Poore, the
last British Admiral on the Australian sta-
tion, proves herself a practised writer in
her Recollections of an Admiral’s Wife
(Smith, Elder, per Dymock’s Library). She
chats most entertainingly and sometimes
shrewdly of her stay out here, and betrays
a charming personality through her pen.
The change from her life in England, where
footmen had been “luxuries hitherto
strangers within my modest gates,” to the
semi-official state of Admiralty House, and
her modest nervousness in her new role are
humorously and feelingly expressed. But
everywhere she found Australian cordiality;
and she records that only one paper—and
that a rag unknown to this page—ever
treated her unkindly. However, we owe
to that incident Lady Poore’s delightfully
feminine simile: “After reading what it had
to say in my dispraise I felt as I do when
I take up a hairbrush instead of my hand-
glass and look into it.” “Even The Bul-
letin, whose bitter cleverness I had been
taught to dread before I set foot in Aus-
tralia, gave me no such shock”; and she
was extremely gratified because we said that
she looked like a seagull at a Government
House ball! She charmingly records that
the ladies of the Sydney press “invented
fresh descriptions for my elderly gowns.”
“I did try hard to cultivate a memory for
both names and faces, and was thankful
to anyone who was unmistakable through
some peculiarity in appearance. But freaks,
frumps and frights are very rare in Aus-
tralia, and pretty girls and women very
common, so my memory was most severely
tried.”
J*
Her comments and criticisms are informed
with the same geniality. She notes that
nobody in Australian sdciety is more popular
than the woman who earns her own living,
but v the working lady of Australia possesses
the gift of putting off her business face along
with her business gown the moment she
‘downs tools,’ and she plays as hard as she
works.” In intelligence, meaning common
sense and quickness of communication be-
tween brain and hand, Australian girls
struck her as being greatly the superiors of
English girls. “The capacity of Australian
women for cutting-out, sewing and contriv-
ing, and for turning themselves out fresh
and smart from the top of their shining
heads to the toes of their small and well-
shod feet never failed to excite my admira-
tion and envy. This talent is shared by all
classes... .their standard in lingerie is
higher than ours, and in nine cases out of
ten the invisible garments are made by the
wearer’s own clever hands... .They have
still a good deal to learn as regards the deco-
ration and furnishing of their houses. Better
color-schemes and more unencumbered floor
space would make their rooms more attrac-
tive ; but as practical housekeepers, not
directors of a corps of well-drilled servants,
they are far ahead of us.” The correctness
of speech of the working people surprised
her. “They have their own slang, of course,
and very quaint and pointed it is, but the
dropping of the h and a general slovenliness
as regards both_ grammar and articulation
are far from being as common as they are
in England.... As for the Australian accent,
it remains a mystery, and why it attacks
some members of one family and not others,
I have no idea. It is simply a Cockney
accent, more or less virulent, which may
affect to some degree the best educated and
most carefully brought up of Australians.
At first it offends one’s ear but in a
general way one becomes used to it. On the
other hand, if one chanced to hear an Eng-
lish voice, known or unknown, among a
babel of Australian voices its different
timbre and accent, struck one immediately.
The Bulletin loves to gibe at the English
accent, and it was quite true that most of
us pronounced the flagship’s name as though
it was spelt Pah-fle, for which there can be
no valid excuse.” She was also impressed
by the great superiority in physique and
intelligence observable in the dock-laborers
of Australia when compared with those in
England. She liked the “intelligent faces,
with square brows and the beautiful thick-
lashed grey, or hazel, eyes of the New South
M elshmen.” And she was so struck with
the Australian habit of the bath that “in
shame and confusion we had a second biith-
roorn installed in our little house in Wilt-
shire before we returned there.” Sleeping
out was another of her joyful discoveries.
So, too, was the “handsomeness” of the Aus-
tralians in providing free travel for distin-
guished visitors. “And now that I squeeze
myself into crowded corridor carriages and
am thankful when ray train does not miss
its connection I can scarcely believe that
those dignified days of free travelling in
reserved compartments ever existed for me.”
She looks back from inhospitable Chatham,
“where one must live seven years in Kent
before the inhabitants consider one’s claims
as a neighbor, and even then may decide to
ignore them,” and where she found “how
little worth we were outside the port of
Chatham,” to the eager hospitality of Aus-
tralia. “My head may have been swelled,
if is true. It certainly dwindled to the
dimensions of a common pin’s.”
J*
It is abundantly evident throughout that
Lady Poore genuinely liked Australians.
She is not out to flatter us: she simply can’t
help expressing her admiration. But there
was one class of Australian that she hated:
“Those apostates among Australians who,
having made their fortunes in their own
country, from which many of them continue
to draw their revenues, abandon it for ever,
eliminate from their talk all reference to
Australia, and from their hearts all affection
for the great country of their birth. This
is an exasperating form of snobbery which
makes me sick.”
Unfortunately the author writes verse,
and, still more unfortunately, she prints it.
Her lines to her friend, Mrs. Gordon Wesche,
are merely painful, and even when inspired
by such a noble subject for humor as Chelms-
ford’s nose, Lady Poore abjectly fails. But
her verse and her pathetic belief that we
ought to be rewarded with English peerages
are the only blemishes in a pleasant and
honest book.
J*
The sixth volume, of the first series of
Historical Records of Australia, compiled
by Fredk. Watson, deals with Governors’
despatches to and from England during the
period Aug., 1806 —Dec., 1808. This period
was the most exciting of our early history,
since it covered the stirring incident of the
rebellion against Governor Bligh. Around
that remarkable person’s name, says the
editor, “more romance and misrepresenta-
tion have gathered than around the story of
any other Governor of the colony”: and
Fredk. Watson confesses that there are sev-
eral points that he, with all the official
documents at his disposal, is unable to
illuminate. “The distortion of facts has
been due in part to bitter party animosities,
already prevalent in the colony, and in part
to new antagonisms created by the deter-
mined, somewhat tactless action of a rugged,
irascible nature.” This man had a remark-
able career. Entering the navy as a cap-
tain’s servant, and later shipping as an
A. 8., he ended, after his return from
N.S.W., with the rank of Vice-Admiral. He
sailed with Cook, survived the mutiny of the
Bounty, was honorably acquitted by court-
martial, received further commands in the
navy, and was afforded an opportunity,
which he successfully carried out, to fulfil
the original object > c the Bounty expedition,
and was specially selected to fill the difficult
post of Governor of N.S.W. “The appoint-
ment of Bligh placed a martinet in com-
mand of a colony whose inhabitants had
developed habits of unbridled license” —a
license that two preceding Governors had
failed to check. His first action on arri-
val, before he .became Governor, was to
accept certain land-grants from the retiring
Governor. The personal use he made of
State property to stock his private farm is
also open to adverse criticism. But it was
when he put down the traffic in spirits, out
of which the military party and the officials
were reaping huge profits, that he first
struck trouble, the end of..which was his
deposition.
“Governor Bligh was the victim of cir-
cumstances when he failed to maintain the
government of the colony. Since 1792 offi-
cials had received many privileges and per-
quisites, which, though inconsistent with the
public welfare, had been excused by the fact
that, owing to the high cost of living, the
man who held a situation under Government
could barely subsist on his pay. Bligh put
an end to these privileges and perquisites.
He refused land grants, restricted assigned
labor, and prohibited the barter of spirits.
He acted with the best intentions, and his
reforms were urgently needed. But he paid
too little regard to the necessity of conciliat-
ing, so far as might be, powerful interests
and powerful individuals. The determina-
tion of his actions and the coarseness of his
speech gave, perhaps, unnecessary offence,
but by no means justified the opposition to
and the usurpation of his government.”
This rather dry historian —he gives us
but the blurred outlines of what ought surely
to have been a brilliant and living person-
ality—finds in Bligh’s brief reign and
dramatic deposition (out of which Fredk.
Watson leaves all the drama) one of the
most important milestones in the develop-
ment of the civil life of Australia.
Had this stormy epoch been eliminate
from the history of the continent. XJ2J
might have been retarded
The administration of the colony hart in"
mt„ the hands of a small oligarch^cot‘t"
mg of the military officers and a few WP „nf'
partisans. Their one object was to aS
wealth with the result that manv S 2
side the oligarchy were forced to lose thl
profits of their honest labor in the ruinrm!
traffic which benefited chiefly the members
of the ruhng class. Bligh recognised 2
evil, and his deposition was brought abm,t
because it was perceived that this was the
only means to prevent immediate and com
plete reform. But his arrest did not res.di
m the failure of his efforts and a pennanen
reversion to the former conditions It con
centrated the attention of the. English
authorities on the conditions of the colony
It forced them to initiate immediate
reforms. It directly caused the recall of
the N.S.W. Corps, which, by long residence
had become the most powerful and perhans
the most evil factor in the community it
indirectly led to the reform of the’ law
courts, to the removal of the restrictions
on trade and commerce, and to the general
betterment of the conditions of life in the
colony.”
The correspondence during this period
together with the editor’s commentary and
the index, occupies 800 pages. Evidently it
will be a long time before the Federal His-
torian reaches the day of Australia’s birth
April 25, 1915.
Jit
Frederick Gascoyne Williams is trying to
bring Labor and Capital together. ‘ While
both employer and employee have always
been willing enough to come together, and
the lion is eager to lie down with the lamb
each party naturally prefers to be the lion!
In Industrial Peace —which in these times
seems almost a blasphemous remark—F. G
Williams succinctly puts the case for co-
partnership. The amazing thing is that, as
most people know, and as this book (pub-
lished by George Robertson, who has for-
gotten to state, its price) repeats, co-part-
nership and profit-sharing enterprises have
been in existence for years, with almost in-
variably profitable results to both employers
and employees, and yet nobody in Australia
ever sits up and takes notice of this monot-
onous fact. Apparently labor and capital
really like fighting each other, just as politi-
cians really like a state of perpetual war.
The thought of industrial peace must be as
blasphemous to the employer and the em-
ployee as the idea of the abolishment of
party government and the establishment of
an elective executive must be to politicians.
Hence F. G. Williams’s excellent little book,
which is the 361879th book upon this sub-
ject, will be merely the 361879th voice cry-
ing in a wilderness of strikes.
J*
The British Government has sent E. W.
Cole, Sydney, a supply for distribution of
Great Britain's Measures Against German
Trade (Hodder and Stoughton; Id. a copy).
This is merely the report of a speech deliv-
ered by Edward Grey, the British Foreign
Secretary, in the House of Commons. Great
Britain’s Measures Against German Trade?
Why, that’s just what Hughes has gone to
England to discover—apparently without
much luck. And he could have found out
for a penny.
J *
Around the fact that at Anzac Australian
fathers were fighting beside their sons, P. J.
C. Wallace, of Seymour Camp, has written
Playing a Man’s Bart (Picken, Melb.). One
thing this page is sure of is that P. J. C.
Wallace will fight better than he will ever
write.
■J*
The two saddest things about "Straight-
shot’s” sixpenny poem, Old Nick Abdicates in
favor of Sweet William, the Prussian
Batcher, are the author’s threat that “should
circumstances permit, Butcher Bill’s reply
and defence will appear in due course,” and
his assertion that “the local press have
given me encouragement.” The dastards
who have done this deed apparently publish
in Bendigo.
The Round Table for March (2s. 6d.)
is chiefly interesting for a sound essay upon
“The Problem of Women in Industry.”
Everywhere in Great Britain women are
flooding into trades that hitherto have been
regarded as solely a bloke’s job; and this
influx is full of complications and difficulties
for the future. Such a question as the right
of the woman worker to receive “equal pay
for equal work” has hitherto been shirked
by English employers, State and private.
The writer of the article, after an un-
biased and thorough examination of the
matter, decides against a double standard of
wages for men and women engaged in t“ e
same job; but the author frankly admits
that he has left untouched the definition of
what is “equal work.” Other articles 01
immediate value deal with the war, the
problem of production in peace and war,
and contributions from the quarterly’s cor-
respondents in the Dominions. It is un-
fortunate, however, that owing to our dis-
tance from England the Australian con-
tribution is often hopelessly out of date.
The Australian article in this issue is dated
December. Portion of it was written, as is
mentioned in a footnote, before the evacua-
tion of Gallipoli.


No. 31. —Black Delaine
Blouse, with White Spot,
Plain Black Hemstitched
Collar and shaped Vest —
- 8/11
rxt
No. F X I.—lnexpensive
Tailored Coat & Skirt
Costume, in fine Navy Serge,
Coat fashionably cut, fitted self
belt; perfect-fitting Skirt, for
Girls 14 to 19 years. Size 6,
52/6; 7, 53/6; 8, 54/0;
9. 55/6.
'><>
2 *
Xo. 24.—Smart Blouse, of
Black Paillette Silk, has Rag-
lan sleeves, yoke effect, up-
right Collar; turned-back cuffs
and shaped empieceinents at
front. S.W., W„ O.S. —
14/11
No. 27.—Flannelette Blouse,
shaped yoke, Pearl Buttons, attrac-
tive colorings, White ground. Light
Blue flower and Dark Stripe in
Crimson, Mole or Saxe .. 4/11
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for
FASHION aod ECONOMY.
No. 29.—White Delaine
Blouse, hemstitched throughout,
sets of pin tucks through fronts,
turned-down Collar and Cuffs —-
10/11
No. 11.—Ivory Japanese
Silk Blouse, upright Collar,
Black Stock Tie, finished tiny
Pearl Buttons 12/6
Black 13/6
I
«
4021
01829
1067
9415
No. 9415. —Useful Tweed Coat, seven eighth length,
inlet sleeves and gauntlet cuffs, full skirt outlined at
waist with tabs of self and buttons. Shades of Dark
Grey or Brown 29/6
No. 1067. Up-to-date Coat, Of Vicuna Cloth, seven-
eighth length, made in fashionable Military style, to be
buttoned right up to neck if required, and drawn into
figure with wide belt, the collar, epaulettes and cuffs
smartly braided. In Black or Navy 32/6
Same style in full-length Navy Cloth 34/6
No. 01829. — Light-weight Coat, of vicuna Cloth,
seven-eighth length, in Black or Navy, loose-fitting back,
finished wide strap at waist, pointed collar, rovers and
ciiffs, trimmed Silk Military Braid 29/0
No. 4021. — Becoming Coat, of Black Sealette, seven-
eighth length, smart, wide, box-pleated back, slightly
eased into figure with hip belts, fastens close, to throat
with new collar. Lined throughout Polonaise 70/ -
Write for our
Winter Fashion
Portfolio, post
free on request.
It illustrates all
that is new and
smart, and places
the immense
resources of cur
Fashion Depart-
ments at the
command of
everyone.
W3O
28
W.
>v.
No 28. —Striped Delaine Blouse, Polo Collar.
'turned-back Cuffs, tiny Pearl Buttons in front, Black
and White, Navy and White, Saxe and White.. 12/6
No W3O. —Embroidered White Delame
Blouse Collar, Cuffs, Revers and Front embroidered
scallops
12/6
•J
R
f
>
' i
Iff *
If | I
I S 1
A!
32
95*
Xo. 32.—Floral Delaine Shirt Blouse, upright
Collar, with White turnover, pointed Cuffs, Black and
Pale Mauve, Navy Blue and Saxe 9/11
No. 965.—1v0ry Japanese Silk Blouse, hem-
stitched throughout, turned-back Cuffs, Blace Moire
Bow 11/0
Also in Crepe de Chine, without bow, 7081 14/6
Or in Ivory French Twill Flannel, box pleats from yoke,
No. 60 12/6
ft 050
No. N 0 5 O.—F
Blouse, Cream ground, Blue
and Grey Stripes, hemstitched
yoke, high Stock Collar, hem-
stitched sleeves, fastens front
with two tabs 16/11
1
344
fo. 844.—Walking Costume,
in Donegal Tweed. Belted Sports
Coat has self-step Collar, lined
Polonaise; plain, liigh-waisted
Skirt, full at foot. Grey, Brown
and Reseda mixtures 35/6
£
-v
Pcfc
N
jj
Jo. 13.— Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, extra heavy weight,
buttons to throat with Pearl But-
tons, smartly-rolled Collar, small
sets of tucks back and front, hem-
stitched throughout. S.W., AV.,
O.S 17/11
ANTHONY HORDERN &, SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


a a
U-)
11
HI
jr'-Sria.. /V c Jf
“a 74
V !) .
10
MS
i <ss
.->,
ED
--
V
,r\.
N
X
.22 Caliber
Rifles and Cartridges
The pleasure of shooting a
.22 caliber rifle indoors or
outdoors depends not only
on the skill of the shooter,
but upon the accuracy of
the equipment used. The
utmost care is taken in the
manufacture of Winchester
.22 caliber rifles and cart-
ridges, and for that reason
they shoot with invariable
accuracy. Winchester .22
caliber rifles are made in
various models and styles,
and Winchester .22 caliber
cartridges are loaded with
Smokeless, “Lesmok,” and
Black powder. It is there-
fore easy to suit your taste
and get the best possible
equipment if you will select
the reliable w brand.
k ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its accion is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
R
LOCAL
imp
PATRIOTISM
. Yoim '
Aim?
Then have a
SI
HOT
P| at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
mi
l (
If'lT
T
v l.
If any illustration appearing in 'jliie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Die Boot^-Croaker
SYSTEM
4®fy .4
CHEAPER THAN
Eleclricify, Coal Oas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
BETTER THAN All.
m
t
‘H
\ -mp
4
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son uJ:
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works : 269 Toorak Rd.,
Melbourne
til
55S
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize WSedals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TO SOLDIERS and SHOOTERS.
Revolvers and Guns at
Greatly Reduced Prices
TRADE MARK Special REVOLVER for trench warfare, 320-calibre, throw-open, blued, 5-
chambered, complete with pouch. PRICE, 27/6. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
GUN, W. \V. Greener wedge-fast erossbolt, 12-gauge, box spring triggers, auto-
matic patent safety snap action, pistol grip, walnut stock, engine-turned rib.
MONTH’S TRIAL. Usually £lO/10/-. REDUCED TO £7/5/-. D.8.8.L
GUN, walnut stock, pistol grip, best blued steel barrels, tested, left barrel full
choke, right modified, rebounding locks, solid strikers. W. W. Greener
patent wedge-fast crossbolt. MONTH’S TRIAL. £3/12/6. D.8.8.L. GUN
—FARMER’S FRIEND —12-gauge, choke bore, pistol grip, English walnut
stock. PRICE 45/-. Orchard RIFLE, will not damage the trees, kill at
40 yards. PRICE 20/- Special line Rabbit Rifles, snipers, take 22 short
and 22 long cartridges, kill at 100 yards. FOR ONE MONTH ONLY, 12/6
each. Cartridges, 1/- 100. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
SMALL ARMS CO.,
Importers and Indentors,
229-231 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
TO THE PUBLIC and
THOSE ENLISTING.
You are doing the right thing by joining
the great European battalions fighting for
the peace of the world.
* % * *- * * *- * * * *
You have the chance now to write your
name in the great history of modern times—
to win the V.C., the D. 5.0., to be
mentioned in Despatches.
il'r * iic- ii'c 3!;- * * * * *
In war, as in peace, it is the athlete, the
strong, sound man that counts. Keep
yourself strong by taking with you
CLEMENTS TONIC
It is the Medicine that means Health,
ALL CHEMISTS SELL IT.


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yer marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
pe WlTT’s
p: \ V
Kidney&BiadderPills
| These Pills also act on the liver.
%. NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SrGNMURE K
LONDON,
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidneys Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
Est. 35 yrs.'Or
MEAD
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All-
Steel Mead Modele Superbe
*COVENTRY FLYER J
Rode 34*366 Miles in 365 Cays
(officially authenticated'. Beat ovt r 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres. Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £&
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carnage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free'Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Mamed.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 >. LIVERPOOL.
Protect
Your
Throat!
It’s largely a matter of
care. Don’t leave it to
chance, be on your guard
against attack.
Wilson s Pino-Mentho
Pastilles
are the surest protection you can get; you
can rely on them warding off Coughs and
Colds successfully. Keep them handy.
• If you are unfortunate to have a cold,
Pino-Menthos will relieve you instantly.
They have a remarkable manner of getting
right at the root of the trouble.
Pleasing to the taste. 1/- per tin, of all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
ALEX. WILSON 8 CO., 17 Pitt it.,Sydney
ARE, YOU
Ruptured
Have yotf grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
AYE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Bonnindton s
IRISH s MOSS
For Business Men
BONNI
IRISH
COUGHS, COLOS*
BRONCHrTIVIMf
OP THE THOA
3S
Keep a bottle of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss ’’
on your office desk, or on the mantelpiece at
home. It will quickly rid you of an annoying
COUGH or COLD, and relieve BRON-
CHITIS or INFLUENZA. Take none
but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
If any illustration appearing in 'T: e
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
*
s
By “ Kat-ar* ah” Treatment
the ATose and Throat are
treated effectively with
Medicated Oxy&en inhaled
direct to the afflicted mem-
branes.
*' Kat-ar-ah ** Treatment
has a direct influence upon
the catarrhal poisons of
the body and conquers the
disease by removing the
cause.
Are You a Victim of
CATARRH!
You know what Catarrh is, with its humiliating and discomfort-
ing symptoms.
A slight cold develops into a stubborn and protracted one, while
the discharges from the nose are most offensive and annoying.
As the inflammation extends further up into the head and the
delicate mechanism of the ear is attacked, there is a continual
buzzing and ringing in the ears, and frequently the hearing is
partially or totally lost. Headaches are almost constant, with
sometimes acute pains in the eyes, and the nose becomes so
plugged up that the patient must breathe through the mouth,
while the slimy secretions are forced back into the throat,
requiring almost continual hawking and spitting to dislodge them.
At certain stages of the disease the odor of the breath becomes
very bad, to the mortification and embarrassment of the sufferers,
and the disgust of all who come near them. Gradually the
mucous discharge finds its way into the internal organs, and. a
miserable form of Dyspepsia, or Catarrh of the Stomach, w.
The blood becqm,ee eer'tuTFnnated by
catarrhai and unhealthy matter, and these are
distributed through the body.
Catarrh is then a deep-seated, dangerous, constitutional or
systemic disease, and its effect upon the general health and
system is soon apparent —appetite and strength are gone, weight
is lost, despondency takes the place of confidence, and the disease
frequently settles in some vital organ or terminates in Bronchitis,
Asthma, Neuritis, or dread Consumption.
Trial Bottle of
“Kat-ar-ah” Inhalant
I want all who are afflicted with Catarrh to try a sample bottle of “Kat-
ar-ah ” Inhalant at my expense. It is a synthetic compound of certain
valuable medicaments, and is supremely beneficial in its influence on the
mucous membrane. It has a distinctly soothing, healing and sero-sanative
effect, sufficient to disintegrate and dislodge the slimy mm ous accumulations.
“Kat-ar-ah” is first aid to Catarrh sufferers. Its healing effects are
simply marvellous. You can notice an improvement immediately after
beginning its use. It quickly takes up its work of killing the disease
germs, of minimising and eventually stopping the discomforting mucous
discharges in .he nose and throat—mucous that is finding its way into
your stomach and poisoning your system.
I will supply you with a Trial Bottle of “Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant TREE OF
CHARGE, if you will send me your full name and address, together with
3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage. Write address plainly, state
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and be sure to mention this paper. Send
for your bottle NOW.
HERBERT HERDER, 22 Baking House, Sydney.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Romance.
Not in her dimpled dimity of old
She pipes to Love a roguish roundelay ;
Not with her scented hair abraid with gold
She follows Folly down the chuckling bay.
Her storied-robes of khaki does she weave,
And facing Death through shards of shriek-
ing shell
She floats, immortal, o’er an empty sleeve,
Bidding the blanky Muses go to Hell.
QUEENSLAND.
ZORA CROSS.
She.
She is most pure. There’s not a trace of.
brown
In that white, splendid throat; her lips are
red
As old wine is; her glorious hair streams
down
Like finespun gold, framing her lovely head
With light; her eyes are blue and deeply
clear,
As summer skies lean down, cloudless, serene.
She’s cold, as crystal water is. I fear
Love’s warmth will fail to melt her, chaste
my queen.
We men know gold as something warm and
red,
Something with fire in it. It is not so ;
That hot, rich stuff is gold with copper wed
That file and hammer’s kiss it may endure.
The baser metal’s red ; but gold, like snow,
Is soft andtcold ; so she. She is most pure.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
CHICK.
In Hospital.
They come through the window in eddies of
tortured sound,
The clang of a car-bell, the screech of an
engine, a postman’s rap,
The ceaseless whir of a million wheels
going round,
They.turn in the brain as a snared thing
turns in a trap,
A crescendo: of raucous voices, a woman’s
cry,
Staccato and shrill as the shriek of an
angry bird.......
And then in tlie.-sudden silence the tramp of
heavy feet
As, like a sleek bull pacing among his herd,
The policeman waiks his beat.
victoria.
VANCE PALMER.
Honeysuckle.
I locked the door upon a little room
Which held a bunch of honeysuckle bloom,
Split cornucopias, cream and fading gold,
That all the meed of bee-desiring hold,
Sprays of green oblong leaf and perfume
rare,
The very soul of summer hidden there.
Next day I came, and when I turned the
key ■
The essence of lost gardens greeted me ;
Into the corridor the sweet scent streamed.
I thought: “My room has blossomed while
I dreamed,
And dusty book and manuscript and wall
Have held throughout the night a carnival!”
And so perhaps, if I should come some day
To that heart’s chamber where lie shut away
Ghosts of old gardens and old drum of bees
And honeysuckle of old memories,
Some virtue in dry leaves might still remain,
Dead blossoms in the darkness breathe again.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Monochrome.
The lark’s in the sky,
And the tit’s on the bough ;
In the paddock ,ijga>" r *
There are fi"
Which and swishes
In somnoleift glee;
A million gay fishes
Are glad in the sea ;
The girls on the ferry
Are smiling and rosy,
And evem the very
Old spinsters look cosy ;
The pert flappers shove me
Because they are late;
I’ve no one to love me,
And that’s what I hate !
I’m writing this verse on
My much-bereaved knee :
There is not one person
Who’s smiling at me.
Not even a widow
To say, “Mister Man,
Hey fol dolder iddo
’S an excellent plan!”
The lark I disdain,
And the tit on the bough •
And I mention again
There are flies on the cow.
I sit here alone,
And I feel very spiteful,
Though hundreds would own
That I’m often delightful.
For this is the bane
Of terrestrial bliss :
When one is most fain,
There’s nothing to ki_J.
So‘sigh with me, pray,
In my desolate sorrow.
Let’s hope that there may
Be some kisses to-morrow.
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


RELIEF for RUPTURE
Our SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS.
DENYER
PRICES :
Single, 17/6.
Double, 22/6.
Why suffer discomfort? You can
secure relief by wearing our ELASTIC
TRUSS, which is COOL,SAFE, STRONG
and DURABLE. It has no steel spring
to chafe the body. The merits of this
truss are attested by all who use it.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
Denyer Brothers,
281 George St., SYDNEY.
(Opposite Hunter Street)
THE PERMANENT
OF NE.W SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O'Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Hr.-gygsg;
m M w US*
UJfJL
JU
msm
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys; Agents, Etc.
ESTATES. PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY
Full Particulars on .Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. 1
7)
CAR COMPANY
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
THe New 1910 Model, 4*24*
AMERICA’S FINEST PRODUCTION
AT A POPULAR PRICE.
A PER FEC T SPECIFIC A 7 lON.
MOTOR —Four cylinder; enclosed valves, adjustable, tappets. Cylinders—Cast en bloc,
bore 3f, stroke 4J. FRAME —Channel, pressed steel. HORSE POWER —22£ R.A.C. OILING
SYSTEM —Force feed and splash svstern, with sight feed on dash. POWER PLANT —Unit in
construction. COOLING SYSTEM —Thermo syphon. RADlATOR—Honeycomb; special
Pullman tvpe. CARBURETION —Schebler Model R. IGNITION —High-tension magneto.
TRANSMISSION —Selective sliding type, ball bearing, three speeds forward, one reverse.
CLUTCH—Single’ steel plate drive, having two w'ire-woven asbestos discs, between which the
steel driving plate is located. Clutch completely housed and runs in oil, and requires no adjust-
ment. AXLES —Front, solid drop-forged 1-beam ; rear full-floating. BRAKES —Internal and
external, lOin. WHEELS —Wood; demountable rims. SPRINGS —Front, semi-elliptic; rear,
full cantilever. STEERING—I7in. wheel, worm and sector irreversible, special Pullman
make and design. BODY —Beautiful stream-line ; five passenger ; standard color, putty grey, nieke 1
radiator, nickel fittings. DOORS —“U” type; conceal< ■< 1 hinges. FENDERS —Special •'
crowned. DRIVE —Right-hand centre control, rn irc icy brake lever f r
out of wSyr > »,7. T .r.'iL T . BASE —114 inches. LIGHTING Electric, V> ,+
Co. dvnamo, 1 Oin. beamjffcfcu dimming attachment jor + . _ *'' i a..„- electric tail
light. STARTING—Electric s«T-b*W\tex. Apple ( « -aiiraitwa-e lend’ efficient. WIND
SHIELD —Clear and rain vision, ventilating. t.v»7 f'ulfman type, conforming to and built
integral with curved cowl dash. 1100D —One-man khaki hood, easy-folding, quick-acting side
curtains, carried in hood; hood fastens rigidly to wind shield. HORN —Electric Klaxon.
SPEEDOMETER —Stewart trip and season mileage. GASOLINE TANK —Carried in cowl;
capacity, 10 gallons. INSTRUMENT BOARD—Electric light switch; ignition switch, speed-
ometer* gasoline filler and sight-feed oiler and light on dash. REGULAR EQUIPMENT —Wind
shield, one-man top, quick-acting curtains, speedometer, electric horn, pump, jack, tyre repair
outfit and tools, tyre irons, and extra rim in the rear; weight, fully equipped, 19Jcwt.; 4in.
tyres, “Batavia.” Genuine full-leather upholstery.
A Complete Car can be supplied in
Roadster (Single-seater) Models.
PULLMAN.—Rigrht-hand Drive-
French Grey -Khaki Top.
cr/- T '
i
mm
m
•4 ll e l>
Tear off slip on this page and mail to any of the firms named below, and by return you
will receive “Pullman” literature.
PULLMAN CARS.
Without any obligation to me please forward copy of Illustrated Pullman Car Booklet.
Hame .
Address
Bulletin.
Melbourne:
FINLAY BROS.,
675 Elizabeth Street.
Brisbane:
J. G. O’RYAN & Co.,
128 William Street.
Sydney:
HUGHES BROS.,
196 Elizabeth Street.
New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH &
SON, Cashel iSt.,
Christchurch.'
Tasmania:
DUNCAN LOANE,
The Esplanade,
West Devonport.
Adelaide:
VIVIAN LEWIS Ltd.,
Gatvler Place.
Terth:
LLOYDS LTD.,
888 Hay Street,
' Perth.
** A —T—T-y A »»
EC
T#ie DETACHABLE OUTBOARD
motor.
See also Page 52.
Unequalled
Compression.
Cost of
Running:
3d per hour.
2 % 8.11. P.
Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Latest Improvements.
Patent, Self-locking Steering Device
Propeller turns with Rudder, which
means the most effective steering possible.
High Tension (waterproof) R eV er.
sible Magneto Ignition, of the very
best make.
Submersible Parts made from best bronze'
rust-proof.
Remarkable Simplicity.
Highest Efficiency.
Perfect Reliability.
Unexcelled Durability.
“The ‘Alka’ will propel you through life.”
Arrange for a demonstration, or write
to-day for Catalogue and Price to
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Sole
Australasian Agents,
11-17 Loftus Street, SYDNEY.
D
)
m
A
M
M
"9
BEST
in the
long
RUN.
DIJVAI & CO 13 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; 1 45 Collins
VrtL <X MELBOURNE; 300 Adelaide Street, BRISBA
CORNELL LTD ADELAIDE.
A. C. McCALLUM, perth.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 37.-No. 1832.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
Price 6d.
THE CAMPAIGN OF FRIGHTFULNEES.
GERMAN AIRMAN: “Now zis is der beauty! If ve can only blow oop dis Wilhelm Hughes, der Pritish Empire vill sue for beace alreadty.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, o£
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 Os. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are thos?
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Port
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, \oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1916.
FRANCE.
When France, a nation of slaves beneath
the heel of the effete and smirking descend-
ants of her old-time Teutonic conquerors,
rose in a fury of blood and tears and broke
thrones and age-long traditions, the hearts
of true men throughout the world went a
heat faster in the splendid promise of the
times. Nothing could daunt those red
revolutionaries; nothing could turn them
from their purpose. With the watchwords
of Liberty, Equality and Brotherhood on
their lips and the strains of the Marseillaise
ringing in their ears, they faced all Europe
in arms and did not come off second best.
And then the Revolution spent its force and
the cross-lights of divided purpose seemed
for a moment to obscure the national ideals.
Napoleon rose and France appeared to be
nothing more than his conquering sword.
The world sighed and rattled its chains;
and little kings made capital out of the
failure of Freedom to complete her task.
Then Napoleon fell and statesmen said:
“Carry on. The incident has closed.” But
the incident had not closed, though for 45
years the French people struggled in vain
to find the lost lamp and get it lighted.
Taking advantage of those struggles, the
Prussians ploughed the country into bloody
furrows and retired leaving behind them
what they believed to be the wreck of a
ruined nation. And then amid the ruins
France found the lamp again, trimmed it
and set it on high to give a clear white light
with never the hint of a bloodstain on it.
Modern France dates from 1870. It was
then that the great Revolution completed its
full circle and left a triumphant democracy
master of its own affairs. The free republic
developed strangely. Nowhere on earth was
there more individual liberty or a more com-
plete absence of interference with the
natural instincts of the people. Nowhere
did men laugh so well or weep so passion-
ately ; nowhere was there so much show and
display, and nowhere so little show and
display that was meaningless. The people
loved their land and dug their roots deep
down into its kindly soil. Public feeling —
sometimes wrong, but always in the right
direction —came to have tremendous power.
The nation trusted itself. The small
farmer who would not put his money into a
bank, through his inherent distrust of all
such concerns, never hesitated to invest it
in national bonds. Though not organised
on such a basis as might exhaust the
country’s strength, universal military service
was the choice of a free people. Industry
flourished under Protection. Even where
such a policy might mean trifling discomfort
or loss of pleasure, the Frenchman thought
first of the needs of France. A foreigner
resident in the country might, through the
politeness of its people, import the pick of
the world’s tobacco and cigars; but the
citizen of the republic stuck to his own
home-grow r n weed and lost nothing by doing
so. The same sort of thing was the rule
all along the line. Patriotism of the most
practical kind supported local industry; and
the economic basis of the nation was sound.
At the same time the gay spirit and happy
tolerance of France made her capital the
play-town of the world. There art was at
home and literature got a fair deal; and a
temple was reared in the midst of the city
to the great goddess Taste, at which even
the German frau who had any self-respect
was forced to worship. American and
British w-riters, judging loosely by externals,
formed false ideas of France and her place
among the peoples. They saw the bubble
and the froth of gaiety and pleasure; they
could not grasp the amazing unity and
sincerity which lay underneath. And so,
compared with ponderous Britain and
machine-made Germany, the French nation
appeared to most of them to be a slight thing.
* * * *
Then the tremendous test of war arrived.
To say that France was not ready is to
state the case unfairly. France was as
ready as a nation whose settled policy was
peace w r ith all men could decently be
expected to be. In any case, France alone
of the nations offered serious resistance
to the overwhelming power of the war-
maker ; and they were French soldiers who
got the Prussians on the run at the time
when the danger to the world looked great-
est. In the long fighting which has followed,
culminating in the awful slaughter before
Verdun, the republic has from first to last
borne herself proudly. Russia has been
driven back to a line far within her own
frontiers; Britain has been painfully slow
in putting forth anything like the military
strength of which she should be capable.
France, strong and smiling, and confident
through her unity of purpose, has yielded
no inch of ground to the enemy, except at
tremendous cost to Germany. That excel-
lent French generalship which has so
astonished Berlin is itself part and parcel
of the republic. Joffre, the directing brain
of the ‘whole defence, is the product of a
free democracy—the natural citizen-leader
of a citizen army. Humbug has no place in
the whole French scheme, and nothing is
other than it appears to be. A soldier may
like the show effect of red trousers ; but there
is absolute sincerity in the way in which
he works his death-dealing seventy-five. The
war-machinery itself is honest —the best that
a Frenchman could make to save the lives
of Frenchmen —and in the long wrangle its
superiority is more and more being proved.
And if it might be argued that France is
dependent on her Allies for much, it still
remains to the credit of the republic that
those Allies were won to her in good faith
and through solid trust in French integrity
and loftiness of purpose. Judged fairly by
results in the hour of supreme testing, the
present steadfast strength and courage of
the nation is the final proof and justification
of the great French Revolution. Democracy
has won out; a free people working together
in full sympathy is stronger than despotism
even at the game that despots love to play.
* * * *
France has lessons for Australia; and
some of them should be driven home by the
grim doings now afoot where Anzacs stand
shoulder to shoulder w T ith the men who have
so long held the Germans. The first and
chief is that the ideals of a people are worth
clinging to through all chances and changes;
the second, that a democracy built upon
sympathy and understanding and true to
itself is the safest thing any man can live
under. Germany founded her strength for
this struggle upon the long and hard training
of her people to take their place in the
machine; France laughed and was glad in
the sunshine, and yet faced the hell of her
enemy’s making with a strong heart and a
cheerful confidence. Doubtless Germany has
some things to teach us too; but the French
way is the best. Australia laughs well;
and in the spirit of the people of this con-
tinent there is a lot that corresponds to
French gaiety. The reformer with the
umbrella notwithstanding, we are fond of
personal liberty and can be trusted to keep
it decent. A machine-made Australia is
unthinkable, and the thousand and one petty
quibbles about popular habits which make
up the stock-in-trade of the moral tinker
are from their very nature at war with our
national character and opposed to the main
stream of Australian thought. Give us the
right which Joffre claims for every soldier
in the great French citizen army—the right
to be ourselves. Being ourselves, and placing
Australian interests above those of State or
parish or party or union or clique, we have
a decent hope that in our own big testing-
time we too may stand resolutely and cheer-
fully to defend our country against any
odds. Nations are only great in proportion
as they realise their national ideals. There
may or may not be greater men in England
or Germany or Russia than in France; but,
judged to-day by that unerring standard of
national idealism. France—that France to
whom we have now committed our sons—
stands forth the greatest nation in the world.
SAVING THE NATIONAL BACON IN
HOLES AND CORNERS.
When the Federal Parliament met last week
there was one subject on which Australia
was w T aiting for information —enlistment.
It heard nothing that it had not heard
several times before. Australia was also
waiting for Parliament to discuss the subject
w T hich for many months has been uppermost
in the minds of the people—the conflict
between compulsory and voluntary service.
Australia can keep on waiting. Defence-
Minister Pearce, having made a statement
of facts that were more or less ancient, in-
vited members to attend a meeting held in
secret and there explained certain matters
which, he asserted, “were of such a nature
that they could not be stated publicly.”
There is no way of judging whether
Pearce’s secrecy was justified or not. Nor
can it be said with any certainty that what
he had to say had any bearing on this conflict
between compulsory and voluntary service.
Taking Pearce’s record as a mystic into
consideration, and having regard to his con-
stitutional impulse to make a bolt for the
bush when asked to say anything definite,
this paper has a deep suspicion that
the Minister in holding this meeting
behind closed doors may have been
merely dodging his obligations. The
Bulletin has had some experience _ of
what he considers should not be publicly
stated, and that experience is hardly
of a nature to make it admire either
the gentleman’s discretion or his valor. But
w r hether his secrets were about matters that
Australians should be kept in ignorance of,
or whether all this parade of caution was
excusable, the result of it all has been to pull
the wool over the public’s eyes, to rob the
Parliamentary debates of reality, and to
emasculate controversy upon a matter of
vital importance to the Commonwealth.
Pearce’s secret gathering alone proves that
the point at issue is a vital one. His declar-
ation that in it is involved other issues of
such moment that they cannot be mentioned
confirms this. The consequence now is that
no Australian knows whether the Federal
Parliament is doing the right thing or the
wrong one, nor can we judge whether the
Ministry is behaving with patriotic caution
or with the basest sort of cowardice —the
sort that springs, for instance, from mistak-
ing ballot boxes for cannon.
But, in spite of Pearce and his mysteries,
the broad question whether the men of Aus-
tralia should be called to arms still remains
untouched. At the outbreak of the disturb-
ance this paper thought they should. It
thinks so still. And it thinks so
1. Because of the military position in Europe.
2. Because of the military weakness in Australia.
3. Because the voluntary system is unfair, unscien-
tific, dangerous, and undemocratic.
4. Because the world is in flames and the peril to
Australia is great.
The position might be altered if Defence-
Minister Pearce were prepared to get into
the open and tell Australians that they were
safe, and that everything was going well.
If everything was going well we may be
quite sure that there would be no hesitation
in saying so. Secret meetings of Parliament
are not held because the men who call them
are sure of their ground. They are held
because such men are in doubt, and usually
because there is a sense of danger.
During a debate in the House of Reps,
after the secret meeting Irvine declared
that, “even after what he had heard, he was
still of opinion that compulsion was neces-
sary.” And from the other side _of the
House Catts announced: “We might yet
have to fight for existence on our own soil.”
If that means anything it means that the
men of Australia should be getting ready
for what is possibly ahead of them. It
suggests something that would turn volun-
taryism into the wildest farce. It also sug-
gests that when the doors were shut Catts
was not confidentially told anything to make
him consider it would be a reckless pre-
caution if more Australians were handed a
gun. And what man is there who can say
that such a contingency as Catts _ has
spoken of is too remote to make provision
against? The war is not over —not by
miles. If it was, the question whether the
defence of Australia is on a sound basis
would not be over. The argument against
compulsory service has been that it is un-
British. That argument having fallen down
dead, a yell on general principles has been
substituted. The essence of the argument
in favor of it has been that participation in
the national defence is a civic duty; and
that still stands. It is not a yell. It is a
doctrine, accepted by every nation that is
just now holding its head up. And it is
not affected by Pearce’s secrets, if he has
any, or by his timidity, which he has in
large quantity. The question as to
the place where Australian forces should
be employed is another matter. The
right place for them to be is w 7 here
they are needed. It is conceivable
that Pearce has some new ideas on this
point. The Bulletin does not know
whether he has. It does not care very
much. What it does know is that there is
a war on, that Australia is in it. and that
every other country mixed up in it, and
some that are not, are working at full
strength to either get it over or be ready
for what is to happen next. It knows also
that Australia is not doing this and that it
can, on the present lines, only be protected
by the compulsory service of people who are
not Australians. All this is on the table.
Pearce’s secrets are not; but the more
dreadful they are the more heavily must
they discount the practice of raising an
army by howls and -white feathers and
chance.
TALKING THE WAR TO DEATH.
Estimates don’t agree as to the extent to
which Britain is supplying munitions to the
forces fighting across the English Channel.
One assures us that the output is not nearly
equal to that of either France or Germany ;
another states that British factories are not
only supplying British troops, but have a
surplus to hand to the French. Both are
from highly-authoritative sources: and the
only way in which they can he harmonised
is by supposing that one includes the oratori
cal shrapnel in the total, while the other
rigidly confines its estimate to things that
are capable of physical slaughter. However
much the munition workers may have dore
it is certain that the number of injurious
phrases turned out in Britain since the begin
mug of hostilities has far exceeded the other
output. Tom Carlyle said something once
to the effect that as long as the English
people remained a silent people it would he
a great people; on the other hand, the floods
of assorted language which load the northern
atmosphere are proof that England itself has
a firm and abiding faith in talk. Every jaw
appears to be working to its full power -no
one who can repeat a phrase or recite a
platitude is numbered among the slackers
Day and night the flood rolls on: and if the
accumulated breath of all the orators could
be gathered into one place, even the largest
German gun would be unable to hear itself
speak.
* * * *
To this uproar Australia has been con-
tributing its full quota, and threatens to
send along a lot more of the frenzied stuff
Andrew Fisher took with him a few thrill-
ing mouthfuls; but when W. M. Hughes
reached London the real circus began. Brag-
ging with desperate enthusiasm of the deeds
of the Anzacs, the Prime Minister nearly
shook the English Tory into a state of
apoplectic delight by hysterical yellings
about the Empire and reactionary sugges-
tions for putting it right. The howlings of
our representative about German trade made
the Kaiser shudder in the midst of a blood-
yawn ; and when he got going in Welsh and
indicated what he would do to the intestines
of the foe—“bowels” was the word, as re-
ported—people began to see what a slow
place England really was, and what a volume
of talk they had been missing all these
year" through failure to invite such overseas
oral rs to give them a little kindly instruc-
tion. 'ughes is still putting them right,
and g t it with infinite noise and in an
unflagt . " torrent of words, but already Aus-
tralian v 'forcements have arrived. Ryan,
Premier Queensland, plunged straight
into the 1 of rhetoric, mentioned that the
Germans . mst be beaten, that Prussian mili-
tarism must be humbled in the dust, and some
other matters of an equally fresh and origi-
nal nature. Holman is expected to follow;
and when he gets busy and the fine edge of
his eloquence hits the British skull there will
be something doing indeed. Other statesmen
are shaping their course in the same direc-
tion ; and a Parliamentary talking-picnic has
been arranged as a reserve in case anybody
should drop out of the word-trenches through
sore throat or other ailment. So Australia’s
contribution to the rhetoric of Empire is not
yet at the flood, and still more tremendous
efforts will be made to persuade England
that the war is really happening, and that if
somebody doesn’t do something, something is
almost sure to happen to somebody.
* * * *
The real question of the hour is whether
the war can stand it all, or how long it can
stand it. It is certainly a well-grown and
very robust war; but the staunchest sort of
fight, even when extending over hundreds of
miles of front and dug in to any depth, may
be hard put to it to endure all that this war
is being asked to stand at the hands of the
Australian political contingents alone. Yet,
though there is all this talk, it is a mere
repetition of the same things over and over
again. Liberty of speech can hardly be said
to exist at the present moment. In the best
interests of the war it is laid down that talk
must confine itself within certain limits;
but none of the speakers referred to appear
to have the slightest desire to say anything
that is not foreordained ; and, as a plain fact,
all that has been said even by Hughes in
his wildest flights is no more than any ordi-
nary Tory party politician is prepared to
say in an equally loud voice upon any occa-
sion. To save trouble, a small Government
talk-book might be prepared with the usual
references to Empire, Belgium, Prussian
militarism and the like, and containing set
tributes to the glorious Anzacs, the gallant
Canadians, the heroic Indians, etc. This
would fill all requirements, and would have
the same advantage as is claimed for the
Prayer 800k —that the hearers would know
exactly 7 when a certain phrase was coming
and prepare to repeat the necessary re-
ponses. Then the statesman of best elocu-
tionary skill or loudest voice would score
most, and the newspapers would be saved
acres of useless reporting. The account or
a meeting could be given like the result of a
race: W. A. Holman, 1; W. M. Hughes,
2 ; The Marquis of Blitheranskite, 3. Such
a method might be much better for the war.
On all indications, the war is getting
pretty nervy about the loose and disorgan-
ised oratory which rages around it; and ij
it should suddenly collapse, the fault woinu
be laid at the doors of men who under a
better system might have upheld it to the
end. #
Speaking in all seriousness, _it is about
time the talkers were put outside the door
altogether. The war-wolf is w 7 hining at tn
gate; and the grim fact that the Teuton is
still holding his own admits of no debat •
There are any number of Australian mattei
that may require discussion, and that proba-
bly should be discussed before English audi
ences ; but they are not the things talked o ,
and they are not the things likely to be. I
the land of the ancient Briton there are sun
fog-bound coteries and cliques who see m
present commotion a chance to press som
ancient and tongue-worn ideas which i
times of sober peace have been relegatec
the dustheap. These people seize upon t
Australian visitor, who, in his desire to sho
himself passionately loyal, becomes t
catspaw, and mouths all the sentiments that
are dear to their antiquated and reaction .
souls. Thus the alleged democrat of Aus-
tralia is made to stand for all that is °PP
to democratic feeling in England, and ,
regard for Australia in progressive flh ar
is not likely to be increased by the d ' s P
To win the war is more important than
talk it to death ; and for that reason alo
the more work and the less talk we aa
just now 7 the better for all except
Germans and our own choir of chattering
politicians.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Changing Ideals by Bullets.
Under martial law death is the penalty of
treason, and the man who takes up arms
against the Government “fights with the
rope round his neck.” What is tolerably clear,
however, is that the present crop of execu-
tions in Ireland, while they may be just, are
impolitic. They go a long way to emphasise
the blindness of English Governments to the
real nature of Ireland’s quarrel. Nothing
appears to have been learned from the his-
tory of the past; and if it were the delib-
erate intention of English authority to have
an Irish trouble on its hands forever, it
could hardly go to work to achieve that
object more heartily than it has been doing
(luring the last few days. A show of stern
force may be valuable in India; it does
more harm than good in Ireland. For 700
years it has been tried off and on, and has
on every occasion proved a fiasco. What
England fails utterly to understand is that
rebellion against her authority may be the
outward showing of the highest patriotism,
and that, however misguided, the men who
have been executed may have been
animated only by motives which to
them seemed highest and holiest. Many
a martyr has died in a cause that
was foolish and wrong; yet the making
of martyrs is always bad business for the
makers. The great bulk of the people of
Ireland have at all times been unwilling
partners in the union with England, and
differ from Englishmen in race, creed, out-
look, traditions and ideals. An armed out-
break in Ireland is thus from the point of
view of those engaged in it a war and not a
rebellion at all; and while England cannot,
of course, admit that, it is not wise to press
the matter of reprisals to the extent of
making them a ground for future bitterness.
Had Ireland been granted self-government,
s, mh as even the individual States of Aus-
tralia enjoy, the Sinn Fein trouble could
never have occurred. The great bulk of the
people of Ireland demanded Home Rule and
the majority of the people of Britain favored
granting it. The proposal was blocked by
a small minority in Ireland, backed by the
privileged classes in England. No shuffling
or side-stepping can alter the fact that the
recent fighting in Dublin was primarily
caused by Edward Carson and the House of
Fords, who. blocked the constitutional effort
towards Irish nationalism, and forced, the
enthusiastic extremists into active hostility.
When is the court-martial on Carson and
the Peers going to be held?
The State as Land Boodler.
The Holman idea of land policy, as dis-
closed to the approving P.L.L., is some-
thing like this. First of all the State will
decide on where it will build a railway.
Then it will keep dead quiet and run around
to Coiien for (1) several millions to make
the railway; (2) several more millions to
buy up the land adjacent thereto. The
result of this operation, according to the
bright young man who falls into frequent
holes, will be that the State will secure to
itself the value added to the land by the
construction of the railway. Selling the
land at the higher figure would be good
business, Holman reckons, because if he
bought, say, 306,000 acres at £3 an acre and
disposed of it at £6 there would be a profit
to the State of £900,000 on the deal. What
Holman has not explained (and until he
does it remains to damn his notion) is what
advantage a transaction of this kind would
be to the people ivho are to work the land.
Iu regard to suburban land, he talks about
“large areas” and “millions” and selling out
at “a big profit”—the old familiar guff of
the subdivision boodler and commission
agent—and at the end he has nothing better
to offer than a tramline built out of the
“profit” on his deal and a vast number of
new landlords looking for the next rise
and a sucker to sell to. Holman’s crude
device is no good to anyone—except Fat.
Land resumption rarely is. Fat gets a
rake-off every time and always slips in at
the early door as first mortgagee. Especially
do schemes for resumption in N. S. Wales
on the basis of present values move Fat
to tears of admiration. To convert those
values into permanent public debt appears
to him the highest statesmanship. To propose
this old device, already discredited every-
where even in Australia, as something from
which the men and women of this country
will derive collective benefit, is to this paper
irrefutable evidence of ignorance—or worse.
The advocacy of Holman and the support
of his colleague-in-suspense Griffith is for
something characteristically unsound and
economically vicious. All they want is a
heap of money to splodge around. What
the public wants is to see those who have
been getting fat without labor disgorge some
of the plunder they have gained through
community-created land values, and to be
protected from further exploitation. The
way to do this is to employ the proved and
reliable instrument of taxing land values.
Doing Our Share.
With the idea of encouraging enlistment or
pushing on compulsory service a number of
misguided politicians and others have lately
been asserting that Australia hasn’t come
at the war with any remarkable vigor when
our effort is compared with that of Eng-
land. There isn’t the shadow of proof that
this is true. How many soldiers has England
on foreign service? How many of those
recruited have been kept back for home
defence? These are two points on which
we have no knowledge at all; and until they
are known anything like a comparison must
be impossible. Had England 4,000,000 men
at the Front, as those assume who want the
balance to weigh Australia light, they could
cover her whole 90 miles of line by standing
one yard apart, and present an unbroken
human wall 25 men deep. The chances
against there being anything like that num-
ber in France and Flanders are very large
indeed. All the men, on the other hand,
counted to Australia’s credit have either left
this continent or are being sent forward to
the various theatres of war. If we are to
have a fair comparison, what there is of
our citizen army must be added to the Aus-
tralian total, and then, in proportion to
population, it might possibly be proved that
we had done better even than Britain. But
it is all guesswork. The question is not
whether we have done more or less than
somebody else, but whether we can do a bit
more and help this calamitous war to a
finish. If the sane, reasonable proposal for
compulsory service were given effect to
without unnecessary talk and delay, there
would be no need ever to raise the foolish
comparison again.
*
How a Labor Democracy Looks After
Its Sick Poor.
Sydney has again endured the annual dis-
grace of the Hospital cadge. Again u ell-
meaning women have jostled in the street
for the coppers of the public, believing that
by doing so they rendered some sort of ser-
vice to the sick and injured. A Labor Gov-
ernment has been nearly five years in office
in N. S. Wales; yet no attempt has been
made to remove the stigma which must rest
upon a State that leaves-the care of its sick
poor to the chance charity of people goaded
into blasphemy by the rattle of collecting
boxes or coaxed into munificence by the
blandishments of a flapper. There is no
reason to suppose that Labor, as an organi-
sation, approves of the existing plan, and
there is absolute certainty that it is abhorrent
to those who have given any thought to the
question ; yet the State Government, having
all the power needed to alter things, plays
the old game in the old way, and ignores its
responsibility. In any decently-organised
community the health of the people must be
regarded as the first concern of the State.
There is no room at all for the private
appeal or any haphazard trusting to luck;
the very first portion of the public revenue
should be plainly earmarked for the hospi-
tals and should be large enough to meet all
demands. The present system, while it
makes paupers of those who use the institu-
tions and has a degrading effect all round,
distributes the burden of upkeep unequally.
The person whose share according to income
is about 24d. contributes 3s. 3d. to the per-
sistent cadgers in the street, while the other
and harder-faced person, whose proper share
is £5 Is. 9d., gets off by dumping a sixpence
in a box and stalking straight ahead for the
rest of the day. Over and above all tlffis,
there is always an element of doubt aboqt
the whole affair; a wet day may upsec all
calculations and force the State to do
grudgingly what it should accept as its first
duty. Street collections for so-called “patri-
otic” purposes, while of doubtful wisdom,
can still be justified to some extent owing to
the special needs of war-time; but the hos-
pitals, which are of a permanent nature,
ought to be directly provided for out of
regular taxation. Is there not anywhere a
political person who feels the disgrace of
this annual grovel by decent women for the
miserable street pennies, and who will set
himself to yell for reform? Shames of this
kind, if perpetuated, work their way into
the national character; and if we don’t get
a right-about-turn shortly, the pauper and
the tuppenny patron will be permanent
features of the Australian landscape.
National Guilds.
Guido Baracchi on Australia’s large
problem:—
Allow me, as being, 1 think, the first to expound
the idea from the Australian platform, to add some-
thing to Vance Palmer’s excellent article (B.
13/4/T&) on National Guilds. The essence of Guild
Socialism is co-partnership between the State and
the trade unions in the control of industry, and it
was born in the clash of Syndicalism and Collecti-
vism or State Socialism. Syndicalism demands the
control of industry by the organised producers; State
Socialism postulates control by the organised con-
sumers. Guild Socialism proposes joint control. It
is the marriage of the Syndicalist heaven and the
Collectivist hell.
As Vance Palmer has already given an outline
of the Guild, I will add only a few points he has
omitted. The Guild, which is the Trade Union
expanded to embrace all workers, mental and manual,
in an industry, must be national in its organisation.
Its active principle will be industrial democracy. It
will elect its own officers from the manager to the
office boy. Guild Socialists believe that the work-
man is the shrewdest judge of good work and of the
competent manager. The Guilds will be linked up
in a congress, to which each one will send repre-
sentatives, and which will be invested with plenary
powers. This conference will sit in permanent
session and form the directorate of industry.
The respective spheres of State and Guilds in the
social life may be roughly indicated by saying that
the State will confine itself to politics; the Guilds
to economics. But the State, as trustee for the
whole community, must own the industrial assets,
which it will lease under charter to the appropriate
Guilds. The State will also be adequately repre-
sented on the governing bodies of the Guilds, and the
Guilds, in return for their charters, will pay the
equivalent of economic rent in the form of taxes
to the State. In this way will statesmanship,
released from the industrial considerations that
corrode it, be set free to grapple with its own
problems.
The natural nuclei of the guilds are the trade
unions. They are undoubtedly the hope of the
world. But the Australian unionist must remember,
what he has partly forgotten, that his union is
primarily an economic body, and he must realise
that the attempt to emancipate himself through poli-
tics is foredoomed to failure. He has captured the
political machine pretty completely. With what
result? He is little nearer to emancipation than
before. The mass of labor legislation is merely
sumptuary in its effect. The more far-sighted men
in the Labor world are beginning to realise that the
limit of legislative action is soon reached. If they
will study the matter they will see that political
power cannot be transmuted into economic power;
that economic power precedes and dominates political
power; that the last without the first is the shadow
without the substance.
The battle of the worker must primarily be won
in the industrial field. If he is to smash the wage
system and substitute something better, he must
realise that he can only control two factors —labor
power and labor organisation. The Australian union-
ist must resolve that he will not longer degrade
himself by selling his labor, which is his life, as a
mere commodity in the market, at a wage fixed
about subsistence level by the relation of supply and
demand. The guildsman’s standard of remuneration
would be honor according to merit, and pay accord-
ing to the requirements of function. Thus resolved,
he must set about the creation of a monopoly of
labor, by enrolling in his union every worker in
the industry. Finally, he must transform his union
from a mere means of defence against his economic
foes into a constructive corporation capable of con-
trolling its own work. When our unionists have
done these things they will be competent to demand
Guild Socialism.
The present struggles of trade unionists are the
futilities of unimaginative men, who would prolong
by amelioration the wage system which chokes them.
Not more wages, but more responsibility is the cry-,
ing need of trade unionists to-day. Every strike
that does not aim specifically at some form of con-
trol is waste of time. But only let the unions
realise the indignity of wagery, only let them make
themselves blackleg-proof, then let them demand that
the workmen do they shall themselves control, and
the reign of the profiteers will be at an end and the
era of the Guilds in sight.
The Customs and Excise revenue for the
current year will be £16,200,000, the increase
in Customs alone being over a million. To
raise such a revenue is disgraceful. It re-
presents the satirical verdict of the Treasury
on all the promises of the past to develop
Australian industries. Treasurer Higgs in
the course of his Budget speech said “the
Government has no wish to continue to re-
ceive so large a sum. It would prefer that
such an increase may take place in Aus-
tralian industry as will lower the huge total
appreciably.” Then why, in the name of
commonsense, does it not amend the futile
tariff which makes the outrage possible?
If the Government does not want this money,
why is it raising it by a system that is play-
ing havoc with the wage-earners’ incomes?
Higgs, presumably, wants to be taken seri-
ously; but how can the public do it? Here
is this preposterous revenue coming in, the
Treasurer saying he does not want it, the
future of Australian industry absolutely un-
provided for, and exceptional reasons existing
why not an hour should be lost in getting
down to the hard work of constructive re-
form ; yet Parliament goes on holiday most
of the time, and proposes now to shut up the
premises and loaf and shirk again. All this
accumulation of make-believe and evasion
means the financial and industrial betrayal of
Australia; and by an amazing paradox it is
the work of a Ministry whose head is roaring
at another country to wake up and do the
things his own Ministry still knowingly and
wilfully neglects.
English, French and German papers not
only talked about the presence of Austra-
lian troops in France, but actually printed
pictures of them, more than a month before
the mothers and fathers of these men were
permitted to hear a word about their trans-
fer. Faced by this fact, the Minister for
Defence says the Censor on the other side
must have been caught napping. A much
simpler explanation is that the Censorship
on the other side isn’t quite as idiotic as it
is here. As a matter of fact, again and
again Australian newspapers have. been pro-
hibited from mentioning matters in connec-
tion with the doings of Australian troops
and have perforce kept silent until the
arrival of English papers: then they have
reprinted the six-weeks-old English reports
and the Censorship has let the matter go
through. If Pearce wants an instance, of
it, this paper refers him to the campaign
against the Senussi. Twelve months ago
Maoriland papers were permitted to report
doings in Egypt which Australian papers
must still be silent about. . The Cen-
sorship in Australia has simply run
mad. Its one and only proper use
is to keep from the enemy informa-
tion of advantage to him. Nine-tenths of
the information that is suppressed has no
special interest at all for the enemy. . The
only people from whom much of it has
been actually kept are the general public of
Australia. Anybody whose business it was
to find out the things suppressed would
have no difficulty whatever about it. It is quite
time Pearce and the other politicians under-
stood that they are not running this war. The
people are doing that; and the people are
getting very tired of being treated as infants
by their own servants.
♦ .
Everybody except Pearce has hitherto sup-
posed that Australia was trying to raise a
certain number of men. Hughes has been
talking in definite figures to John Bull.
Figures that looked as if they had reference
to something definite have been used by
Pearce, too. What they meant was never
very clear, but practically every citizen in
Australia was judging events by the one
standard —the fixed number of men which
the country supposed that Pearce was try-
ing to enlist. To learn now that he was not
trying to enlist any particular number is
not unlike hearing that he wears his boots
on the wrong feet. The story now is that to
name a definite number —say, 300,000 men —-
would be likely to have “a disastrous effect
on recruiting.” Could anything be more
absurd? Without a standard, how is Bill-
jim to know whether he is required? Or
how would Pearce know whether it was
“disastrous” if only five more Billjims
turned up—and one of them was rejected
because he had a false tooth? There must
be some standard by which to judge whether
a crowd of Billjims is big enough or too
small for requirements. The whole fact of
the matter is that this poor, limp Minister
has observed that the P.L.L. and the P.L.C.
have declared their undying hostility to con-
scription ; and he is afraid out of his life to
mention a figure lest voluntary efforts should
not realise it, and he should thereupon have
to demand the thing that his masters tell
him they won’t put up w T ith.
“T. J.A.F.”: The wheat cocky is a hard
man to organise because he is suspicious of
organisation. The little of it he possesses
is too busy hunting the political greasy pig
to attend ,to the business which interests
him most/ When he happens, to make an
attempt to organise on right lines the poli-
tical pig-hunters jump on him and call him
a meddler. So he gives it up as a bad job.
What is really wanted is an Agricultural
Organisation Society to tell Cocky a heap
of co-operative truths —what has been done
in other countries; what his cow-brother has
done in Australia; how he is being rooked
by the middlemen in his own little town
and in the Big Smoke. When he has learnt
his lesson Cocky will dump the political
gang on to the doormat and get down to
business, even if it’s only a poor kind of
business for a start. Not long ago I visited
an irrigation area that is supposed to be
run by the State and discovered that the
product of the cow and the pig (what there
was of him) and the orchard and the vine-
yard could only be bought through
an outside co. which charges 3 or 4
per cent. com. for handling. Whaffor? The
worker for co-operation is up against a
pretty stiff combination —including the poli-
tical farmer who isn’t a farmer at all and
a department that doesn’t know enough to
sell the product of its own duck-farm.
“Bad Australian” : Nine or ten years ago
there were very few Japs to be found in
South America south of Callao or Rio de
Janeiro; to-day there is hardly a city
of any importance where they have not
established a business of some sort, and the
little brown cook and houseboy and the wan-
dering peddler of sandalwood fans and
quaint willow-pattern pictures is to be met
at every turn. A few days ago I met about
60 better-class Japs of mixed sexes crossing
over from Valparaiso to Argentina, bound for
Buenos Aires, Uruguay, Paraguay and
Brazil. Valparaiso is a port of call for
the recently-established Japanese line of
steamships, and a handy distributing base for
immigrants throughout the southern half of
the continent. Buenos Aires and the Atlan-
tic seaboard is reached by the Transandine
route in two days, thus saving the long sea
trip around the Horn and through Magellan
Straits. South America, being a continent
inhabited chiefly by halfbreeds and Indians,
doesn’t worry about a color line, so the Jap
and his women folk are received in a friendly
spirit, and start off the same mark as folk
of other nationalities. It looks as if there
is a great future for the Jap in these repub-
lics, following the line of “peaceful penetra-
tion” ; and, judging by the steadily-increasing
influx of Nippon, he appears to be fully alive
to the fact. • This must be somewhat dis-
quieting for the Yanks, who are straining
every nerve to get the same kind of hold on
the southern part of the continent as they
have on Peru and the North generally. But
the plain fact is that the Yank is disliked
and, I believe, feared throughout Latin
America to a greater degree than the Jap.
This is largely due to the patronising and
In France.
Somewhere they went. We lost them for
an hour
In the grey mists that near the war fronts
rise;
We read of blood-bought hills and shrapnel
shower,
But those we sought were hidden from
our eyes.
Now, to new music, up the curtain flies,
The footlights blaze, the ready scene is set,
The loud stage-thunder rumbles from the
wings,
The gods applaud, Fate’s brazen bugle
sings,
And Young Australia and the Hun have
met!
Steady of nerve, in the front trench they
stand —
The place of honor for the war-tried
brave;
Behind them Spring has decked a fearless
land
With all the blossoms earlier May times
gave.
Theirs is the task by stubborn will to save
The whiter blossoms truth and faith have
grown
On the tall stem of freedom, where proud
France,
Amid destroying lightnings, dared advance
Her fearless claim to make her soul her own.
Britain at last has stripped her tardy arm ;
The deep earth shudders at the thing to
be,
The tempest gathers, edged with scathe and
harm,
A leashed destruction eager to be free.
And these brown legions from our utmost
sea,
Australia’s chosen, bear a foremost part
In that tremendous stroke, by fear un-
tamed,
That through the rolling clouds of war is
aimed
To strike world-treason to its bitter heart.
There shall be tears of pride for those who
fall;
And in that scorn of sorrow we shall
know
How softly through the dusk the low graves
call
To our remembering manhood. Flowers
shall grow
Above them in far years when time beats
slow
Heart-music to the happier march of peace.
And when men ponder o’er Australia’s
name,
These who in dying kept us pure of blame
May guard us through the days till wars
shall cease.
They shall not fail us. Through that hell
of fire,
That surges round about them where they
stand,
Their tested courage matches our desire ;
And in the deadly grapple hand to hand
The thew and sinew bred in this wide
land
Shall win to mastery. We cannot fear.
The long-drawn battle in its fierce red
close
Shall find them still breast-forward to our
foes
When victory calls and all the nations hear.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONES 1
Famous all the World Over as “the Instruments that NEVER Break Down !”
POPULAR SERIES.
10-inch, 3 • < NZ > 3 6 >
12-inch, 5?- (n.z . s/e)
DOUBLE-SIDED.
COLUMBIA CRAPHOPHONES
HORN MODELS
Prices
from
75 - to £l5 15/-
HORNLESS £;“•
80 - to £45
NEW ZEALAND, £5 to £5O
CELEBRITY SERIES
from
10-inch, 5/- (n.z., soy
12-inch, 7/6 (n.z., s/->
DOUBLE-SIDED.
COLUMBIA RECORDS They Wear TWICE as Long as Any Others!
Born iu Detroit, Michigan, T >-A- J. '•
Bray, when arrived at a wage-earning agt-
migrated to New York, where he i»ut in se'
years on van-
ous newspaper
including Lt FK ;
Puck and
Judge, as a
sketch artist
The Movies
flourished; Jl v
saw an opening
invented am
mated cat'
toons, the
outcome ot
which was
funny little
“C o 1 on el
H e e zaliar,
most famous
of screen comedians. The Colonel’s
showing in Australia was witnessed
Sydney Monday last at the Strand Theatre,
where he registered the biggest possible ca
toon hit in “Colonel Heezaliar and
Pirates.” released by Australian tea
Films Ltd., on the Paramount Service.
fatherly way in which Uncle Sam boosts
himself as the Heaven-appointed protector of
the peoples of this continent. Australia, at
any rate, may well rejoice to know that if
Japan wants room for expansion there is
half a great continent ready to take its hand
without first asking it for even a finger-
print.
The AVar in Obscurity and Elsewhere.
The battle of Verdun has been raging for
three months, which seems a fairly long rage
even for so bad-tempered a thing as a battle.
It suggests either that the German has gone
mad or the original yarns about the disturb-
ance were composed a long way at the rear;
and in view of the general murkiness the
latter looks the more reasonable conclusion.
Exactly what Verdun means is about as
clear as everything else. According to the
latest information opinion in London ip
divided on the why and the wherefore of it;
also on the question whether the German
made a mistake and will not see it, or didn’t
make any mistake and is working to
schedule. Heaven and Berlin* alone know
what the answer to all this is; but what-
ever it may be the fact of the attack having
been maintained since February further dis-
poses of any idea that the Hun is short-
handed either there or anywhere else. So
far as the rest of the extensive conflict goes,
there is a great economy of information and
a vast Quantity of words about nothing in
particular, from which it is quite safe to
gather that we are not justified in breaking
into applause. The Turk continues to hold
his end up, the Kut-el-Amara business turns
out to have been even more disgraceful than
was considered likely even under the direc-
tion of Field-Marshal Muddle, Billjim is
variously engaged with the German and in
frantic pursuit of descendants of the Shep-
herd Kings somewhere in the sand, and
Allies and Germans alike have left off
blithering about the war being triumphantly
ended the day after to-morrow.
♦
The Wail of a Farmer.
Dear Bulletin, — I am a wheat farmer in
New South AVales. It is a disaster that
might happen to anybody who hadn’t sense
enough to clear out of the country on the
first sight of Holman. I have been here
three years. The first and second year I got
just about as much out of the ground as I
put into it. Drought was the trouble. The
third year I got a crop. The Government
of city barristers, solicitors, patent agents,
traders and miscellaneous told me that it
would take my crop at its own price and pay
for the goods when it was ready. It did this
because wheat is one of the necessaries of
life. At least that was the pretence. Yet
in the modern order of things wheat is no
more a necessary of life than wharf-lumping
or coal-mining. It isn’t even more neces-
sary than Holman, if you take that slender
and ill-shaved person at his own valuation.
Yet consider the difference. Holman practi-
cally fixes his own salary, and it is paid to
the day or the hour or the minute. The
wharf-lumper or coal-miner beguiles a Court
to fix his wages according to current rates,
and then he strikes for 20 per cent, more,
and gets it. Incidentally, he tells the Court
and the Law and the Labor Government to
go to perdition. And he also collects his
pay on the moment. What kind of a row
would the wharf-lumper or the coal-miner or
the politician make if the price of what he
had to sell was fixed at fully 10 per cent,
below the price current in the world’s market,
as happened in the case of my wheat? And
if even then part of his pay was months in
arrear, I suppose he would set fire to Sydney,
which wouldn’t be such a bad thing, after
all, as that octopus city seems to be the
centre of all the political disasters of the
State. I want badly to know why this miser-
able Government of city men —barristers,
solicitors, boiler-makers, patent agents and
trades-union secretaries —can’t leave me
alone and let me mind my own business. I
never interfered with Holman’s professional
fees. I never told Griffith that his charges
for getting out a patent were excessive.
I never told McGowen that he asked
too much money for making a boiler.
I never asked them to wait for their arrears
of pay. I regarded them as harmless, neces-
sary nuisances and let them go their own
way. Why can’t they let me go my own
way? Some day, I fancy, there may be a
Farmers’ Insurrection. The bucolic people
will go to Sydney armed, and will raid New-
castle and Bulli and Wollongong. They will
kill the politicians and the trades unionists.
Then they will search the pockets of the
dead—those people who always collect their
pay to the moment, and get by continuous
striking about 20 per cent, more than cur-
rent rates as fixed by the Courts. And out
of the pockets of the dead they will collect
the arrears of their wheat money, and
enough to make up the difference between
the price at which the Government of city
men—men tvho don’t know a turnip from a
bullock —took over the wheat, and the regu-
lar market rate. I’lease excuse bad writing
and haste. I am doing this by candle-light
at 10 p.m. because I have to work for hours
that no city unionist would look at in order
to raise the wheat which Holman, the city
barrister, takes over at a price which he
fixes out of his long experience at watching
the grass grow in George-street, and pays
for at his convenience. Yet despite all my
drawbacks I am proud. I am nationalised,
in a sense, because I am one of the neces-
saries of life. I may lose money by it, still
the fact is a compliment. Holman isn’t
nationalised and made to wait for liis salary,
because he is one of the superfluities of life.
I believe I am nationalised at a low fixed
price for fear I should corner wheat. What
about the men who corner wharf-lumping
and ship-building at a high rate? I—but
I am too wild to go any further. —Yours
truly, A Bloke.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose’’
Criterion “On Trial’
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum .1 Triangle Plays
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Worths’ New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty”
Royal “The Birth ot a Nation”
King’s “The Family Cupboard”
Princess’s “The Irishman”
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
Glaciaritjm Ice Skating
Auditorium War Pictures
Allan Wilkie set out under George
Marlow auspices to experiment with
Shakspeare at popular prices. The enter-
prise has throughout been a success;
but in his Adelphi production of “King
Richard III.,” a play Australia has
not seen for nearly 30 years, he surpassed
his previous efforts both as actor and pro-
ducer. He will, by this writer, at any rate,
be best remembered for his excellent imper-
sonation of the Crookback —especially as
that ambitious villain the Duke of. Glou-
cester, the expert head-carver who is pre-
pared to exterminate the rest of the family
and marry his mother-in-law to secure the
uncomfortable job of king. This Crook-
back presents only a slight hunch and limp,
which Wilkie retains with impressive ease.
As producer, Wilkie secured remarkable
results in marshalling what is really a weak
support. Except for a couple of misfits
(particularly the Lord Mayor, who looks
more like the Court jester) he has obtained
the last ounce from a co. which, prior to the
Melbourne season, was mostly unfamiliar
“RICHARD III.,” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Walter Champney, Lord Mayor of
London, requests that Richard be made
King of England.
with Shakspearian requirements. The Lady
Anne of Frediswyde Hunter-Watts is satis-
factory mostly in appearance; she fails at
times to impress the sincerity of her hatred
of the perfect gentleman who had comman-
deered her family tree as the stock-in-trade
for a butchery business. Robert Faulkner’s
Buckingham lacked strength and venom, and
he did not deserve the honor of losing his
head. Fred Kehoe is acceptable both as
Henry VI. and as that monarch’s ghost.
John Cosgrove was out of place as Lord
Stanley; if his picturesque old head had
been presented on a pedestal as a stage
effect, he would have been much more satis-
fying than as Richmond’s field coronator-in-
c'hief. Elwyn Harvey and Marion Ryder
made charming Princes ; and Valentine Sid-
ney, widow of Edward IV., and Con hie
Martin, mother of Richard and various
other troubles, were satisfactory. The
scenery by Rege Robins was excellent; and,
due allowance being made for the popular
prices, The Bulletin is content to review
the army of supers witli its Hospital Friday
eye.
* * * *
Dick will continue to offer to swap his
kingdom for a horse until further notice.
The revival of “Get-Rich-Quick Walling-
ford,” at Melbourne Royal, lias the rare dis-
tinction of being more interesting than the
original production. The piece itself looks
neither better nor worse than the novelty of
four years ago. Three acts are devoted to
the glorification of “crook” company-promot-
ing and bluff land-boom speculation based on
“RICHARD III.,”
AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Richard (Allan Wilkie) proposes to Lady
Anne (Frediswyde Hunter-Watts) at her
husband’s funeral.
embezzlement, and the last act introduces
the nauseous friendliness of a fat Noo Yark
detective who comes to look up the men he
had known as “crooks” because he hears that
they have retired from crookery and got
married. It is the dirtiest thing a detective
can do under such circs. In any other sort
of Yankee crook play the uncalled-for police-
man would smell of blackmail and be black-
guarded accordingly, but in this case he- is
presented as a kind-hearted cop whose
mission is mere mush and whose simple sense
of humor is tickled to death by the thought
of Wallingford being the father of twins.
* * * *
In the present performance the only import-
ant survivors from the first cast are Lester.
Marion Clarke and Greig. Some of the
satisfactory replacements are Maclarnie,
John Forde, Celia Ghiloni, the precocious
small boy, Beatrice Nicholls and Tom Can-
nam. Maurice Dudley makes Blackie Daw a
spieler who invites confidence, whereas Cor-
son Clarke formerly wore a toothy smile that
might have put any boob on his guard; and
the Eddie Lamb of Donald Bowles is a
brilliant creation compared with the stereo-
typed young simpleton who was crudely pre-
sented aforetime. Bowles puts a lot of char-
acter suggestion and natural humor into the
part. Hale Hamilton’s handling of the
Wallingford character is easily the most:
adroit and artistic work he has done in Mel-
bourne. Both the man and the manner are
as convincing as the situations will permit.
Niblo pattered through the part on a mag-
netic personality which was not true to the
nature of it. He bluffed the audience with
his rapid utterances, and dazzled careless
observers with his shiny surface effects.
Hamilton talks fast enough when lie likes,
but he doesn’t reel off volubility like a
machine. The quick-witted, burly, genial
spieler lives in his impersonation. His mock
outburst of feeling when the directors of the
Patent Carpet-Covered Tack Co. question
liis bona-fides is a very forceful bit of farci-
cal comedy. Myrtle Tannehill, whose essen-
tially modern style of sweetness must have
come into American vogue with the type-
writer, is a capital Fannie Jasper, especially
in the first act. tier attitude towards Wal-
lingford and her row with the hotel landlord
are admirable bits of acting.
* * * *
On Saturday, and for two weeks in all.
the Royal will he a picture theatre. Twice
a day—afternoon and evening—“The Birth
of a Nation” is to run its lengthy course
upon the screen, and the prices will be 35.,
2s. and Is., not 65., 4s. and 2s. as was orig-
inally threatened. The picture is stated to
be a mighty spectacle, but the prices that
were threatened in the first instance seemed
a trifle too strong for any picture, Thev
were mightier than the mightiest. •
* * SfC *
Gerald Griffin, who commenced liis \i 1
bourne season in “Mavourneen” u tv,
Princess’s last Saturday, is another ‘sLjJ*
comedian of the Doone type, though he is
likely to replace Allen in local recollection
Doone seems a forceful personality in corn'
panson with Griffin, who hardly ‘raises w
voice in anger and never •sounds as if h
warbling issued from the fullness of hit
heart Moreover, he lacks Celtic intensity ;
his lovemaking, and needs to strop his tonmi.
on the blarney-stone. He has no uref v
speeches to tickle the ear of his colleen u
any of the verbal ripostes .that shatter th
villain’s dignity and get the laughs on hi
side. Mostly he trips through the proceed
ings wearing buckle shoes, a loud grden
waistband, and a brow unpuckered by his
load of care. Ethel Buckley, plumper than
of old, is the load just at present. She has
apparently jilted Gerald for a gay young
blood who wearies of her in-no-eence in two
or three days, and hires three qua kin"
ruffians to massacre the damsel and dump
the remains in a mountain grave. Griffin
however, prevents the carnage by pushing
the nervous trio out of the foreground and
grappling with the bad young man, who
carelessly shoots himself in the subsequent
melde. It is an easy method of reuniting
Gerald and Ethel, but it removes the only
feature of human interest that keeps the
flimsy play alive. Vivian Edwards, as the
villain, is a rake and gambler of great im-
portance. and on artistic grounds his sudden
conclusion is to be regretted. Morally his
attempts to murder his missus are indefens-
ible, but when the lady (who is Miss Buck-
Icy) possesses a tiresome giggle and a deplor-
able, crathur-drinking parent like J. p.
O’Neil, there is at least some excuse for
breaking off friendly relations. The others
include Miss Carte, who effectively conceals
Dorothy Kavanagh’s endearing young
charms; Charlie Taylor, a priest; Fred Niel
son, an English offieah; Miss Carrington, a
hag overflowing with prophecy; and Frank
Iteis roaring his loudest among the sundries
The scenery is strongest in outdoor work, the
best being a mountain view where Gerald
Griffin owns a cave and lifts up his worn
tenor in praise of his darlint.
“Jean Sibi” tastes an art show
There is a good deal of nudity about Miss Cumbrae
Stewart’s latest display of pictures at Melbourne
Athenaeum. Several subjects, in fact, are frank
and unbiased descriptions of some maiden's cherished
charms. Frontal views prevail, but there are also
sundry instances where the artist hows ill homage
to the backbone of the sex. Like the pictures from
the front, the back studies are finely drawn, but
the scrupulous attention to details occasionally
gives one a sensation of being present at an anatomi-
cal lesson. I n the heavier oil work Miss Cumbrae Stewart
shows plenty of ripe talent, though her manner is
suggestive of two or three schools. In the languid
and decorative “Like Sunshine She Lingers,” her
art has dropped into a pre-ltaphaelite reverie, to
wake up later in “The Ballet Dancer” under the
influence of Degas. Both canvases are well painted,
however, but the captious realist will prefer “hi
the Looking Glass” to either of them. This is a
serious impression of a lady of the 1880’s making
her bustle the centre of gravity, and its cool and
sombre coloring is an antidote to the pictorial
turkey-lolly of some other things near by. In the
landscape section the general peace of the country
scenes is broken by the indignant energy of some
Melbourne street jottings and a lively color-
curiosity named “Before the Regatta.”
And have another :
The Victorian Artists’ exhibition at their East Mel-
bourne galleries has its usual abundance of dear
old ladies and smug infants interspersed with jaunty
diagrams of flowers and fruit. Original or striking
offerings are rare, a few craftsmen like Bernard Hall
and IV. B. Mclnnes being respon-ible for what there
are.
Bernard Hall reaches a high pitch of realism at the
outset with a nude study entitled “The Suicide.'
Apart from the color work, wherein a lemon-yellow
note is like the noise of a band, the canvas is an
intense study of a death agony seen through the eyes
of a morgue reporter. You turn with relief to Bernard s
other contributions; one effort is an undressed lady
trying to live at peace with her background, and
another is a portrait of an unpleasing damsel show-
ing her teeth in a sort of baffled sneer. W. B.
Mclnnes’s fine, manly paintings display the earnest-
ness of his researches in agriculture. His biggest
work, “The Live-long Day,” is the best land-cape in
the exhibition. W. Nicholls Anderson also hangs a
good thing called “In the Dandenongs,” though it
is a rather capricious arrangement of light and shade.
“The Tilted Waggon,” by Harry B. Harrison, h
another of his views of toil and sweat on sunlit, dusty
roads; and “Butterfly,” by Albert Enes, reveals a
weird Japanese landscape where every prospect ,s
pale peagreen and every puddle bile.
George Dancey puts his signature to a memorial
tablet wherein St. George and the Dragon get an
ornate advertisement. Mrs. Muntz-Adams is repre
sented by a couple of restful portraits, the largei ot
which, “The Melody,” is in her heavy, atmospheric
manner. Miss Sweatman’s white-frocked lady is a
noble testimony to the importance of starch, and Mis?


HENKES’
SCHNAPPS
Holland’s best production—an absolutely ideal tonlo.
Awarded many gold medals -for purity.
HAUNTING MUSICAL SUCCESS !
“THE PERFECT SON<S”
(Beimr the Love Strain from the incidental music of the successful film
production, “The Birth of a Nation. )
BY JOSEPH CARL BREIL.
Piano Solo (Continental Fingering) 2/- net
Vocal Arrangement in D (B-E) & Efi 2/- net
CHAPPELL & CO. LTD., 235 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
MAY BE HAP of ALL MUSIC-SELLERS
A Peapes’ Sports Suit
of Flecked Grey Donegal
A new production—warm, stylish, comfortable —giv-
ing that easy fit essential for outdoor activities, yet
conforming neatly to the figure. The material is
distinctive—a Light Grey, with Donegal fleckings of
Black and White. The coat has 3 patch pockets
with button-flaps and pleats, half-band stitched at
waist, and vent in back. Trousers—side, hip and fob
pockets. Ideal for lounge or sports wear on Winter-
days.
HEADY TO WEAR, 45/- We pay Postage.
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
L
m
yr-JHRt
Teague’s exhibits are portentous enough to be sold
hy weight. Leslie Wilkie’s brushwork is not up to
form in “Five O’clock Tea” or “Pierette,” and
W. Frater’s portrait (No. 103) suggests a Christian
martyr. Torn Carter’s No. 83 is a rather disagreeable
pleasantry in saffron, and in his picture of Tom
Carter he has refrained from pouring out his soul
in self-revelation. Percy Leason’s “John McDouall
Stuart” is nearly Percy at his best, and there is some
nice painting in F. S. Reynolds’s treescape, “Marsh-
lands.”
In the central gallery Shirlow’s and Cobb's etch-
ings divide attention with a bunch of refreshing-
little water-colors by Harold Herbert. The sculpture
section is dominated by a clump of plaster nippers,
described as “a fragment of a memorial,” by Miss
Margaret Baskerville. The work is not especially
artistic, and the modelling conveys an impression that
the industrious little sculptress has not much of a
head for figures.
Sydney Majesty’s owns a Scotch landlord
who has had his accent extracted; and
every evening “Mother Goose” rolls at him
the golden fortunes laid by Priscilla, the
goose that is really a gander. (P.S. —Nearly
all fortune-layers are ganders.)
* * * $
“Peg o’ My Heart” has now been wander-
ing unbidden into Mrs. Chichester’s drawing-
room at Sydney Palace for five long weeks,
and is likely to keep on doing it in spite of
snubs. Michael the dog has now been carried
18f miles by footlight; and his sad Irish look
hasn’t worn off yet.
The Follies are due back on board the
Sydney Tiv. this week-end; meanwhile the
ship is making good weather of it with the
present Yankee crew, whose she-bo’s’n is
Marie King Scott, of the red suspenders.
Her best moment is when she squeaks the
simple pumpkin song that Dad usually
fiddles and faithfully follows the thin old
tune up and down the scale. Mildred Grover
and the Sans fashion-platers have returned
meekly and found places on the bill amongst
Pardo and Noll (operatic singers), Shepherd
and Raye (stockwhip Hingers), and the
Three Kundles (wire-springers).
The case “On Trial” at the Criterion
Supreme Court, Sydney, is expected to last
another nine days.
Wirths’ circus is getting into the last lap.
and one of these nights it will fold up its
suit-case and march away from Sydney with
the seals playing in the band and the lion
riding beside the lamb and the management
catching up to the last elephant with the
mint sauce. Then a fresh lap w’ill be started
somewhere else with great enthusiasm and
55 handsprings by the entire strength of
this mammoth organisation. Meanwhile
there is going to be a marine display at the
Hippodrome directly.
* * * *
The week in Sydney film-houses: —
Lyceum: The usual 2 dramas + 1 comedy Triangle
programme—“The Conqueror,” “Honor's Altar” and
“His Auto Ruination.”
Crystal Palace: “The Devil's Toy,” an Equitable
production in which Dion Titheradge has a part;
and “Because He Loved Her,” a two-act Triangle
tic-kler.
Lyric: “One Day,” which has lasted three weeks;
“Mutt and Jeff,” a re-liasli of Bud Fisher’s American
cartoons.
Empress: An official war film, and “John Bull’s
sketchbook,” a comedy which would be a tragedy if
it told the truth.
Forty-five minutes of the new programme
at Melbourne Tivoli are reserved for Horace
Goldin, a plump and practised wizard who
partly justifies the preliminary applause of
the management. In the first place Goldin
is a magician with a method. Instead of
attempting to perpetrate old and honorable
miracles in an unfamiliar way, he disguises
himself in a series of masks and garments,
and impersonates former conjurers who
performed those ancient miracles in the long
ago. Afterwards he gets busy with a num-
ber of modern illusions in which the inevit-
able lady is placed in a suspended meat-safe
with a view to her subsequent disappear-
ance when the blind is let down, or else
she comes to light in a most expected man-
ner in a box that looked empty before it
was shrouded in mystery. The latest varie-
ties of the world’s cherished illusions are
cultivated by Horace Goldin in the second
part of his entertainment. Finally he
appears with numerous assistants in a
dumb drama of Oriental wickedness, that
begins on a cinema screen and ends at the
back of the stage, where a tigress has passed
from notice behind a cloud of steam. But
even a disappearing animal is a familiar
circumstance, if this paper remembers
rightly. A lion borrowed from the local
Zoo used to vanish in a cloak of vapor on
the same stage, and one Saturday afternoon
it returned to visibility in Little Collins-
street, whereupon all the adjacent pedes-
trians vanished as if by magic and the lion
turned himself into a deserted suite of offices
for exploring purposes. The items that
precede Goldin are mostly songstrous or
gymnastic. A clever little lady trapezist
has a figure fair to see, and the fall-about
fooling of Mennetti, an acrobatic clown, is
as droll as a fit of sneezing during divine
service.
* ;>,•
“So-Long, Letty,” is now in its fourth
week of picturesque unreasonableness at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, and the civilians and the
soldiery are still rushing it.
“The Family Cupboaid" is to open at Mel-
bourne King’s next Saturday (20th). when
“The Souaw Man” will have finished his sen-
tence. “The Family Cupboard” is comedy-
drama, and seemingly there is no skeleton
concealed in it. Anyhow, the Bert Bailey
advt. speaks of “a remarkably humorous
vein.”
The official French war films at Mel-
bourne Auditorium are giving Collins-street
some idea of the weapons and methods with
which .Toffre is showing his disapproval of
the Kaiser. The pictures disclose various
phases of trench fighting without the noises
and the casualties, especially emphasising
the important part that tlie grenade and the
“75’s” are playing in the game. Views of
sundry battlefields and France’s warriors,
plain and colored, are other features, while
whole sections are devoted to the motor and
aeroplane work, night fighting, and the valu-
able ambulance aid of dogs. Summed up,
the films are calculated to give one confi-
dence in France’s scientific and physical fit-
ness to bring Hun ambitions to a nasty end.
“MOTHER GOOSE ” PANTO., AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
The Laird.
At Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week Olga
Petrova is exploiting her Thrilling Look in
the Metro-feature, "My Madonna,” which
is described as a “picturisation” of Robert
W. Service’s “Spell of the Yukon.” Ser-
vice, who is accused of being the Canadian
Kipling, is also the author of “The Song of
the Wage Slave,” which provided the
material for a five-part thrill at Hoyt’s
theatres last week. This picture, which is
full of trouble and raw emotion, is a humor-
ous example of the ’Murkan habit of making
motives clear to the Average Bloke. For
instance, when the heroine approaches a
lake with the obvious intention of commit-
ting suicide, a property skeleton wobbles
ominously in the background just to assure
the spectator that she isn’t merely going in
for a paddle.
❖ * * *
Maggie Moore is spending a week at Mel-
bourne Bijou in a series of odds and ends,
including a sketch of a niggah cook and an
impassioned tribute to Anzac valor. Maggie
shows that her voice and her dramatic powers
are still considerable, though at Saturday’s
matinee, when The Bulletin heard her, she
had the misfortune to compete with two or
three coughs and a couple of demonstrative
babies. Acrobatic acts are strong in the
remainder of the bill, two new lots, the
Astelles and Charleburt Bros, and Essie, giv-
ing exhibitions of fine and finished balancing.
Especially striking is a feat of the xYstelles
wherein one youth leaps over four chairs, to
be caught by the hands and held aloft by his
comrade lying full-length on the stage.
The Follies at Adelaide Tivoli had a
merry Cup Week, with the big house full
all the time. Frank Greene sang beauti-
fully when a vile cold let him; Vera
Pearce pervaded the whole show, Jack Can-
not kept it moving, and the Brussels tenor
80l gave it “tone.” At the King’s are Leo-
nard’s performing poodles; and another Leo-
nard, Nelson, always immensely popular in
Adelaide, has come back. The Royal, in a
brief interval between plays, has switched
on to pictures, and says it means to do so
as occasion offers. At the Town Hall “Jane
Shore” lias been finely filmed; it is signi-
ficant, by the way, that the lady is quite
openly advertised as “a king’s mistress.”
Good concerts are frequent, the community
having woke up to the fact that artists need
at least two meals a day, even in war-time.
AT POVERTY POINT.
In the hunt for soldiers under our volun-
tary system of recruiting, the cinema is to
be brought into line with clamoring politi-
cians, “rallies,” drum-thumping, glad-eye
flappers, white feather flappers, coaxings,
insults, and general circus. The Dept, of
External Affairs, in partnership with the
Defence Dept., has had prepared a series of
films showing Australian soldiers in the milk-
ing—recruiting at Victoria Barracks; train-
ing at Liverpool, musketry instruction; artil-
lery camp at The Warren; engineers and sig-
nallers ; light horse; army remount corps;
and the training of the Expeditionary Forces
under service conditions. The pictures will
be exhibited throughout N. S. Wales by the
leading film exchanges. And if only King
O’Malley could be persuaded to do the
“advance” work the show ought to shake
quite another dozen volunteers out of the
old land.
Daybill outside an Egyptian theatre: —
DRAMATIC PERFORMANCE
in aid of
CONVALESCENT SOLDIERS OUTING FUND
and
THE • MATERNITY HOME.
“Rather a maladroit juxtaposition of char-
ities.” remarked the English officah who was
sunning himself in the neighborhood.
“Fiddlestick” : A musician in England—-a
thorough good one, too —has cause to bewail
the irony of circumstances. He was born
with the surname Jones. A commonplace
name the owner thought it. So he changed
it, and as Edward German won distinction
and oof by his melodious compositions. Now
his assumed name proves a nightmare. The
majority of his countrymen, dead against
German music, refuse him a hearing. So
Jones, talented above the average, begins to
think that the old man knew best when he
didn’t change it.
“THE SQUAW MAN.” AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Tabywana (John
Lennon).
Jeff Williams as Big
Bill.
The wandering minstrel is the latest
medium for spreading the gospel of Liberal-
ism in Victoria. Various townships in the
Corio electorate are being treated to silver-
coin concerts organised by Geelong Liberals.
When the trained squeal has performed,
and the female elocutionist has shocked
Shakspeare with her bare voice, and the fiddler
has done his act, the boss bear-leader
comes to the edge of the platform and ad-
vises the congregation to remember that
Liberalism still lives. (Cheers.) It is a
notable display of tact and good feeling—
particularly in view of the fact that the
member for the Federal district of Corio,
Corporal Ozanne, lias just left for the Front.
The patriotic performers in “Green Stock-
ings” at Melbourne King’s on Saturday
were indulgently treated, but once the audi-
ence tittered out of its turn. One of the
characters had to faint, and the heroine
was supposed to run to the sideboard, seize
some brandy and administer it. The de-
canter was not in its place, and the heroine,
with great absence of mind, instead of run-
ning into the wings and allowing the audi-
ence to assume that the blue-blooded family
always kept the brandy in the coal-shed,
stood irresolute up-stage. After a while a
hand grasping a decanter was thrust from
the prompt side. “A glass!" gasped tlie lady,
and after some more waiting the fist again
shot out and delivered the goods. The resto-
ration of the fainting female was then pro-
ceeded with, while the audience folded up
its well-bred smile and remarked that these
little things must be forgiven to amateurs.
"C. Oekney” : The doyen of London actor-
managers, Charles Wyndham, who is over
70, has just married his second wife. The
bride was Mary Moore, long Wyndham’s lead-
ing lady, and partner with him in his various
London theatres. She also is indulging in
matrimony for the second time. Her first
husband was James Albery, a well-known
dramatist of the ’7o’s, author of “Two
Hoses,” a comedy in which Henry Irving-
scored one of his earliest hits, and adaptor
for Wyndham of “Pink Dominoes,” the
“naughty” French farce which at the Cri., in
Piccadilly Circus, shocked all London and
naturally made a small fortune for the
manager.
“Kaniva”: I saw the clown’s cat-driving
act referred to by “8.J.” (B. 27/4/’l6).
though I can’t now recollect the number of
tabbies involved. It took place at the Theatre
Royal, Feb. 17, 1874. The panto was
“Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star,” adapted by
Marcus Clarke, and Tom Lewis, “the Aus-
tralian Grimaldi,” was taking his annual
benefit. Below the ordinary theatre adver
tisement appeared one as follows: “Frightful
Catastrophe. Wanted, 2000 cats to draw
Tom Lewis, Australian Grimaldi, across the
stage on Tuesday night.” Larwood, the
reminiscencer, says 24 cats were used, but
this is an error. The wretched animals that
did go on were worried out of their lives.
They were encouraged to proceed by calls
of “Puss, puss!” and in no time a packed
house took up the cry, until uproarious
laughter drowned it. As a novelty the act
was a glorious success, but I have
not seen or heard of its repetition.
Lewis was knocked down shortly after
by a vehicle and killed. The prin-
cipals of the show were 11. R. Harwood,
J. R. Greville, Dick Stewart, Harry Loston.
Jenny Bryce, Clara Thompson, and Docy,
Maggie and Nellie Stewart. The last-named
made her ddbut in this production.
(Continued on pgge 28.)
When the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
was asked to consider the enforcement of
the recent award in regard to the conditions
of wharf-laborers, the value of the Court’s
decisions as at present applied got a doubt-
ful advertisement. The employers pointed
out, in a pained sort of way, that since
the Court had made its decision as to fair
working conditions, there had been merely a
matter of 68 stoppages of work on the
wharves in Sydney. Still, who knows? —if
there had been no award, there might have
been 98 stoppages, or even 172! On the
other hand, if there had been somebody with
a hefty axe in the neighborhood to prove
that the Court could hurt as well as talk,
there might have been none at all.
♦
The development of electric power now pro-
jected in Tasmania may foreshadow the
time when the White Australian will supply
tlie mind and order the big tame current in
the wire to do most of the things about
which unions strike and Arbitration Courts
now arbitrate; but there is one plain fact
that must be taken full account of in all
talk about the future of Australian elec-
tricity. All hope of industrial development
by this or other means is dependent on
a proper tariff. While the cheap foreigner
is free to take the job out of the Austra-
lian workman’s hands, it matters very little
whether that workman is prepared to toil
with his hands or his head. And that
means first forcing politicians to something-
like a sane view of Protection.
'
The brains of the industrial section of the
Westralian Labor party is Alex. McCallum,
General Secretary of the Perth branch of
the A.L.F. For years McCallum has done
three men’s work, for half of one good man’s
salary, and now the bill has been delivered
in the shape of shattered health. A long-
rest is the only possible receipt; and if the
Perth Laborites have sweated their servant
in the past, they are now making some
amends by turning out the over-willing
horse to grass for six months with
full pay and something over in hard
coin. McCallum has twice fought the
Perth Federal seat against Fowler, and while
he could not win he scored more votes
than were polled for the leading Labor Sena-
tor in the same division. Ilis best work has
been done in organising and at the council
table of the Trades Hall, where his saturnine
humor and horsesense have put the kybosh
on the hot-heads and visionaries who want
the millennium delivered piping hot at a
moment’s notice.
THE INTEMPERANCE WORKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The barmaid said: “I know you, Will—
You are a star in vaudeville.”
I own I do a turn that’s neat
At Solly’s house, just up the strei t.
She polished up and filled my glass.
“I’ll see you, when I get a pass.”
On me her eyes with pleasure shone.
“At half-past eight your turn comes on.”
“But how,” I asked her, “can'you state
My turn comes on at half-past eight
If you’ve not seen the show, my Grace?”
She said: “That’s when they rush this place.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


A PURE FUR SOFT FELT HAT FOR 7 6
: v
'S
The guarantee of good faith being the name
of a Company successful over 78 years of
merchandising through truthful representa-
tion.
URE Fur Soft-felt Hat; fitted sweat-proof head
1 leather; newest shades (all unfadable), includ-
ing Dark and Light Grey, also Slate —being the
most popular colors this season—trimmed with silk
bands of self or black, bows at side or back. Two-
and-a-quarter-inch brims, with popular cut edges.
Sizes: 6i to 7f 7/6
Superior qualities, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6 and 21 /-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp G. P. 0.,
SYDNEY.
How to Get Rid of Dandruff
This Home-made Mixture Removes
Dandruff and Stops the Hair from
Falling Out.
The following simple recipe, which can be
mixed at home or put up by any chemist,
will quickly remove dandruff and stop the
hair from falling out.
To a half-pint of water add loz. of bay
rum, 1 small box of Orlex Compound and
:}oz. of glycerine. These are all simple in-
gredients that you can buy from any chemist
at very little cost, and mix them yourself.
Apply to the scalp once a day for two weeks,
then once every other week until the mixture
is used.. A half-pint should be enough to
rid the hair of dandruff and kill the dandruff
germs. It stops the hair from falling out
and relieves itching and scalp disease.
Although it is not a dye it acts upon the
hair roots and will darken streaked, faded,
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair soft
and glossy.— Advt. [7
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegant!}'
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel t
now complete in every detail, an ’
under the management of 0
Usher, the Comforts of a Pei e
Home are assured. The Cuisin
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in Englan •
America or the Continent. a
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOULD'S
WINES
London Record —a “low church” Anglican
weekly—tells its little tale of the presence of
mind of the clergy amid the horrors of a
Zeppelin raid :—•
The meeting was just about to commence when the
alarm ‘‘buzzers” went. In four and a half minutes
the National Anthem was sung, prayer (‘‘Lighten our
darkness”) offered, and the collection taken up as
the people retired. No less than £6 13s. 6d. was
received, in spite of the adverse circumstances.
It takes more than Zeppelin frightfulness to
make a parson forget the collection.
* * * *
By a coincidence, the twin viaducts in the
hills just outside Adelaide are to disappear
just after the passing of 11. C. Mais, Engi-
neer-in-Chief of S. Aus. w r hen they were
erected. It w 7 as in 1882 that the railway—
afterwards to run right through to Melbourne
—got through the suburban hill-country, and
seven miles out the line was made to come
out of a tunnel and cross two narrow but
deep gullies, with a shoulder of rock dividing
them. The viaducts were designed on the
best American principles, and most engineers
swore by them. Passengers swore at them,
and thousands have felt relief when safely
Q.E.D.
“Yes, but what is a gentleman?”
“Oh, usually just a man who doesn’t know
you well enough to behave otherwise.”
across. Long experience has shown them
to be, as Mais claimed, as safe as any other
part of the line; but even a steel bridge will
not last for ever, and S. Aus. finds that a
deviation, which will even shorten the line
by a trifle, can do away with all necessity
for renewing the spidery-looking structures.
The change of route is to take effect in two
years’ time.
. “Billy T.” : Here is a true, somewhat dif-
ferent story of the war. A well-to-do family
on fat land not many miles from Geelong en-
gaged a new domestic some 12 months ago.
The girl had good looks and a pleasant man-
ner, and proved unusually efficient. When
she had been in the house six or seven weeks
she appealed to her mistress to be permitted
to have her baby with her, confessing at the
same time that it was a child born out-of-
bounds and abhorred of Mrs. Grundy. Re-
luctantly the mistress and Mr. Man agreed
to have the infant on their reputable
premises, and it duly appeared. The kiddie
was found to be a particularly fine sample
of its kind, and of such abounding health
and unfailing good temper that it won over
the whole establishment within a week, and
was given a cosy place in the bosom of the
family. Soon after this came the news of
the death of Percy, the son and heir of the
house. He went to the Front early, and
fell at Gallipoli. After the crushing effect
of this blow had passed, Mr. and Mrs. Man
became even more closely attached to the
extraneous infant introduced by Bella, find-
ing keen satisfaction in its resemblance to
early photographs of the lost one. About
a month passed, and one afternoon Bella
the girl was found in a dead faint on the
kitchen floor, with a letter clasped in her
hand. The letter proved to be from the
soldier son of the house, and had been writ-
ten only a few days before his death. It
left no doubt as to the parentage of Bella’s
baby, and fully accounted for the amazing
resemblance between the little stranger and
certain treasured photographs in the family
album. The situation was easily accounted
for, Bella having taken up her position to
ingratiate her infant, if possible, and to be
on hand when Johnnie came marching home
again. Her ruse succeeded to this extent
—Percy the second is certainly on velvet.
The Antarctic exploring ship Aurora,
which w r addled back to Dunedin (M.L.) the
other day for repairs, after being cuddled by
large icebergs, is a cheerful hulk. When she
turned up in Sydney on the way to Antarc-
tica she was in the usual state of leak, and
Fisher, who was then Prime Minister,
gave in to a request that she should be
docked at Cockatoo for overhaul at Aus-
tralia’s expense. An estimate of £5OO was
submitted, and Fisher authorised that expen-
diture. But before the calamitous tub had
been refloated, £3938 of the taxpayers’ cash
had been swallowed. If people in search of
an advt. will persist in running these excur-
sions, it seems, after this, that Australia
should give them to understand that they
get no more of their punts overhauled on the
nod.
* * * #
Major N. Hastings, of Maoriland, w 7 as
wounded on August 9 last at Chunuk Bair
Gallipoli. A sergeant
set off’ carrying him
on his back to the
dressing station; and
that is the last that
can be definitely
traced of one whom
Colonel Meldrum de-
scribes as among his
best officers. For about
nine months indefatig-
able efforts were made
by relatives to find out
what had bebome of
the lost man. First
it was reported that
he was wounded, then
missing, and, finally,
that he died “on or
about August 12.”
The military authori-
ties say that no trace
of him can be discov-
ered after his arrival
at the hospital ship.
Colonel Meldrum con-
cludes that he died at
sea. So it seems that
even an officer who
held the D.S.O. and
the Cross of the Legion
of Honor, can be
wounded, perish and
slid overboard or
buried in some un-
known spot ashore,
and no record taken
of the incident. How
many poor Private
Bi 11 ji m s reporteu
“missing” have gone that way?
The ribald welcome given by the Germans
to the Australians when they appeared in the
French trenches last month recalls an inci-
dent of the first days of the war. A boat
or two steamed into Ponape Harbor and the
German garrison, believing that they were
the Australia and her pals, guffawed and
prepared to knock the toys to bits. As the
ships got nearer, however, the valorous Goths
discovered that the visitors were Japs, where-
upon they promptly bolted for the bush.
They learned a few things about “the toys”
presently, when the Emden met the Sydney
and said good-night.
NEUTRAL.
SISSY : “Which side do you take when yer farver an’ mucver’s havin’ a scrap?”
BILLY : “The outside, o’ course — y’ don’t cop it there.”
The memory of Charles 11. was revived
at Fremantle the other day by the prosecu-
tion of a local firm of butchers under a
statute proclaimed in his reign. The charge
was that they did work of “neither necessity
nor charity, to wit, killing sheep’’ at a time
when “piety and true religion” ought to have
kept them in Sabbath idleness. Defendant’s
counsel pleaded that the law was obsolete
and one which if put into force in this
country would lead to endless and absurd
prosecutions. Even the daily newspaper
proprietors and employees who worked on
Sunday to bring out Monday’s issue would,
he argued, be up before the beak. The
Bench of honorary justices looked as if it
didn’t know what to do, and in desperation
imposed the fine of ss. prescribed by Charles
the Pious Rake.
* * * *
“Mil”: The Western district of Vic.
badly needs conscription. There are
moneyed families there with many sons
inside the fighting age; having a great deal
of money and one of the most kindly-con-
ditioned regions in Australia, they make
loafing their exercise. At Hamilton most of
the men are financially able to leave their
homes, yet the town has done little at
enlistment. The State Government’s farcical
recruiting train put in a day there and got
one volunteer. It claimed three, but two
had really enlisted the day before. Hamil-
ton has one “returned” soldier, and it
decided to welcome him the other day. The
fatted calf was killed, but the “returned”
soldier didn’t return worth tuppence, and a
windy panjandrum went to the railway
station and dragged the first whole soldier
he saw out of the train, shoved him into a
car and puckalowed him to the Town Hall.
They ate and drank, but never till all were
full was that soldier given time to explain
that he was a “returned” soldier on his
way home to Pensliurst. It was in the
Western District that a grazier, asked why
other graziers did not volunteer, said in a
shocked tone of voice: “But they’ve got
land!” The idea is apparently that the
landless should fight for the landlord, and
the mad voluntary system says that’s right.
About two years ago Melbourne’s Sheriff
suddenly sagged at the knees. ArraS '
ments had been made to give n
send-off to a guest (including “ ’am fS"*
couple of eggs from the cook with the n •
ca! legs”) but at the last momen?
found that the hangman was not available
Ihe potentate who on previous occasions had
presided had moved on to other parts f
able to find a substitute, the harassed official
was having cold fits when, the night hefev
“the job,” another guest at Pentridge w
prevailed upon to do the scragging. He did i
so well that he retained the position of neck
breaker and flayer until he completed his Ift
years of residence in gaol a few weeks a?V
Soon after he had departed two prisoners
were ordered to be flogged; but, as nobodv
could be persuaded to perform, the officials
were again in a cold sweat until the recently-
retired artist was hunted up and, for a sub-
stantial fee, agreed to once again tickle up
the evil-doers and settle the hash of the
wicked. He wdll continue to do it as a stiddy
job at a regular wage, and the Amalgamated
Hangmen and Floggers’ Union may be said
to be getting into its swing.
* * * *
Melbourne has its Four Courts as well as
Dublin. In Melbourne it is a pub—a quiet,
venerable house in William-street, just
alongside the Law Courts, where the Ass
loves to dip its tired whiskers in a glass of
toddy at the close of the day’s toil, or when
it desires a refresher in the sometimes tedi-
ous intervals of its oyster-opening job. The
Law comes in all shapes and sizes to the
Four Courts —from the articled cub to the
K.C., from the plain, blue cop to the bright,
pink judge’s associate, not to mention the
cove who gets the benefit of the doubt and
his cobber the alibi.
A HINT.
REGGIE : “Aw, matwimony is a seicious
thing to contemplate.”
MABE I: “It isn’t so serious if the other perty
isn’t contemplating it.”
THE TRANSPORT PASSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Good-bye, brave ship ! Good-bye 1
Good-bye, loyal hearts to you I
Under an autumn sky
Of palest, tend’rest blue,
O moving mount of men,
This last faint word I fling,
With halting, hovering pen,
While seaward bugles ring.
Your brave young colors wave;
Your farewell cheers blow down,
As though you mocked the grave,
Straight to the watching town.
Good-bye, grey ship ! Good-bye !
But from far fields of pain
To those who wait and sigh,
Ah, bear them home again!
N.S.W
FERRYMAN.


HOME-MADE COUGH-DROPS.
A RECIPE EVERY MOTHER SHOULD
KEEP.
Cough drops suitable for both children
and adults can easily and quickly be pre-
pared at home by pouring a few drops of
bitrate of tar on a lump of sugar. Let this
dissolve slowly in the mouth, and as it dis-
solves so the healing and soothing virtues
of the pine tar will penetrate to every part
of the throat, chest and lungs.
Bitrate of tar is useful in a hundred
different ailments, and it is no wonder
chemists are experiencing difficulty in meet-
ing the demand. Half a teaspoonful poured
into a bowl of boiling water produces a heal-
ing vapor which, when inhaled, gives quick
relief in cases of cold in the head, bron-
chitis, asthma, etc., while it is well known
that 2oz. of bitrate of tar, Boz. of sugar, and
half-pint of hot water produce, at a total
cost of about four shillings, a pint of cough
syrup far superior to the ready-made mix-
tures composed of drugs, and at considerably
less than the price usually charged for the
ready-made article. Make a syrup by dis-
solving the sugar in the hot water, and then
add the bitrate of tar. Stir well, and when
cold it is ready for use. The pleasant flavor
and aroma of this home-made cough syrup
make it very acceptable to children, to whom
it may be safely given.— Advt.
Ideal Parting Gifts
for Soldier Friends
Show what you think of his patriotism
before he leaves Australia’s shores to fight
for King and Country. There’s many a use-
ful remembrancer amongst our up-to-date
selection of Soldiers’ Gifts, and all are
moderately priced. Note these values
Soldiers’ Money Belts, with
pockets, from 3/6
Soldiers’ Wristlet Watches from
12/6
Wristlet Watches, with luminous
dials, special value .... 22/6
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in leather
case 4/-
Soldier’s Metal Shaving Mirror, in
leather case, pocket size 2/6
Tobacco Pouches from ... 1/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 Years.
FRUIT LAXATIVE FOR MAMMA, DAD,
BABY, CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Better than calomel, oil or pills to
clean and regulate liver,
bowels and stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night, and in the
morning all the foul, constipated waste, sour
bile and fermenting food delayed in the
bowels gently moves out of the system. When
you awaken all headache, indigestion, sour-
ness, foul taste, bad breath, fever and dizzi-
ness are gone; your stomach is sweet, liver
and bowels clean, and you feel grand.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—-is a
family laxative. Everyone from grandpa to
baby can safely take it, and no one is ever
disappointed in its pleasant action. Millions,
of mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, sick, feverish children. Ask
your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”—Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs—which has directions
for babies, children of all ages, and for
grown-ups plainly on the bottle. Remember,,
imitations are sometimes substituted, so look
and see that your bottle bears the name of
California Fig Syrup Company. Hand back
with contempt any other fig syrup. “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—is sold by all
chemists in bottles of two sizes, Is. lid. and
Is. 9d. * [7
“Billy T.”: He was down from Shingle
Hill and was crossing Bourke-street oppo-
site Cole’s when a tram bore down on him.
Prompted by the wild yell, he jumped on to
the next track, right under the nose of
another dummy travelling in the opposite
direction. A second frantic leap landed him
in the gutter. “By gum !” he gasped, “did
you see that beggar turn on me?”
“Carfax”: So the rebels or patriots or
whatever they were shot down Dr. Watters,
President of the R.C. University School in
Dublin. Poor Watters —a tine, warm-
hearted and patriotic Celt killed by an Irish
hand! Not many who knew him but will
hope that Dillon had at least some mental
reservations when he spoke in the House
of Commons with pride in the exploits of
his friends. Watters would be a bit over
(50 perhaps, but it is hard to guess the age
of some priests. Ten years ago he looked
not much over 20 —a healthy, red-faced,
dapper little man who took the world as it
came, and reckoned it good. He was the
first rector of St. Patrick’s College in Maori-
land, and thousands of young and middle-
aged men over there and many at the Front
will feel a catch in the throat when they
hear of their old master’s passing. He
BY PROXY.
HE: “I've heard she neglects her children
shamefully!"
SHE: “Oh, no, she doesn't. She hires nurses
to do it."
never said a harsh word and was altogether
too good natured for his job. When lie left
to return to Dublin Dr. Kennedy, the priest-
astronomer who also collects beetles, took
the chair.
SALUTE!
“Hay” : With the old-time spinning-wheel
at work again under the' pressure of war, it
is interesting to know that Binghi
in his native state used a similar
implement. His frock, worn in the
manner of a Highlander’s sporran, and
somewhat resembling that article of attire,
was made of the woven hair of
a small species of wallaby, a
little grey animal not much big-
ger than an ordinary rat, which
Binghi caught with a net. The
hair was sweated off the hide
and spun into thread on a star-
shaped hand-wheel. It took
two persons to operate the im-
plement, one turning while the
other fed the thread with the
teased-out hair, which averaged
about an inch in staple. As
the thread grew it was wound
round the spokes, so that there
was never more than about two
feet of slack away from the
wheel. The yarn produced was
a little thicker than ordinary
worsted and much stronger. By
twisting and re-twisting this
thread Mrs. Binghi made cords
of varying thickness, and also
elaborate tassels. In the early
days it was quite a common
thing to see our benighted
brother manipulating this tedi-
ous machine, for when he wished
to appear well dressed he
spared neither time nor trouble.
* * *
“The Governess” : The modest
B.A. I managed to wrench from
the University is a great com-
fort to me in my job, and when
I take it to the bush it im-
presses the country folk, to
whom degrees are strange ani-
mals to be dreaded. It occasion-
ally means a few shillings more a
month, and the respect of dull
employers, who are only scared
of knowledge when it comes to
them in archaic robes with
some of the alphabet tied to its
name. But the small boy of the bush has
his own standards and judges me accordingly.
Yesterday, while smothering my natural in-
stincts with some more dead book-learning. I
heard myself condemned in these words : “Oh,
what’s the good of her? Why, she can’t even
hold a sand-snake while a bloke gets a bottle
to put it in!”
“The Kaiser’s hair is thick but grizzled.
It bristles like a brush, each hair on end,”
says a recent neutral war-correspondent.
His hair’s on end. At length we guess
The reason of his frightfulness—
The Kaiser hopes to make his hair
The height of fashion everywhere.
From a Frenchman — Tiie Bulletin’s
old contributor “Karee” —long settled in
Queensland: —-
The vagaries of war ! My eldest brother was killed,
in June last, on the grounds surrounding our old
family place, the Chateau des Essarts, near Com-
piegne, where the Headquarters of a German army
corps have been hogging it for months. Now a younger
brother is bombarding the chateau! It’s adding
insult to injury when a man’s got to destroy his own
house to exterminate the vermin that pollutes it.
Old Dr. Macfarlane, who has only just
left off being Superintendent of Tasmania’s
one big lunatic asylum, had some good yarns
about things that happened during his long
service. One concerned a patient who had
to be taken from the Hobart General Hos-
pital. The attendant detailed for the job
guessed he was not going to make a show
of himself in uniform, so went in mufti.
The patient was very quiet and thoughtful
on the way up, and all went well till they
gof to the Superintendent’s office. Then,
before the attendant got a chance, the
patient said to Dr. Macfarlane in a busi-
ness-like way: “Here he is, sir; I have
brought him all right and he was very quiet
on the road.” He stuck to it, too, and as
he seemed eminently sensible while the
attendant, whom the Superintendent did not
know from a crow, got rather excited, it
began to look as if the man who did not like
uniform was in for it. Finally he per-
suadecl the doctor to ring up the. hospital
at the other end and get a description ot
him over the wire, and they kept the right
one.
“Tasma” : An oratorical balloon was badly
punctured on Auzac night, when it appealed
to a Tasmanian country audience not to
dance, out of respect to the dead lying in far
Gallipoli. Then a woman rose from her chair
and screamed angrily: “You ought to talk
about respect to the dead! Why, you
married another wife before the first one had
been dead six months!” Just like a woman
to go and remember a thing like that, and
use it on a man when he was liot-airing
miles up in the blue!
“Bill Bowyang” : The Anzac who fought
on Gallipoli is looking for a simple invention
that will cut the barb-wire entanglements in
front of him as he charges the enemy
trenches. There were miles of these bar-
riers in front of the Turkish positions, and
they brought the most impetuous bayonet
charge to a standstill until a way. was cut
through them. It should not be difficult to
invent something to carve the barbed horror.
A French chap over here has been experi-
menting with an appliance similar to a rocket
apparatus; it throws a grappling-iron
attached to a rope over the entanglements,
which can then be hauled into our trenches.
But Billjim is not lifting his hat to the idea.
I have been caught in these horrors, as an
eight-inch scar on my right leg can testify,
and I’ll call the blessings of Allah on anyone
who sends the right article along before I go
into another scrap.
* * * *
“Bad Australian’s” homily on chickens,
dried fruit and strikes: —
The Chilian peon is about the most happy-go-
lucky, irresponsible cuss on earth, but as a soldier
he will face “a troop of Hell at the sound of the
drum,’’ while as a practical patriot in the piping
times of peace he scores 100 per cent. He generally
owns or leases on the share system a bit of land
varying in area from the size of a swagman’s hanky
to an acre. This is worked by the missus and kids.
The latter arrive as regularly as Christmas boxes,
and in the matter of scratching for their own grub
are almost as precocious as young scrub turkeys.
The chacra is planted with an assortment of fruit
trees, mostly peach and pear, and a few grape vines,
and the greater part of the fruit is dried for win-
ter consumption. The land between the fruit trees
is never without a crop of vegetables—melons, pump-
kins, peas, beans, potatoes, onions, Chili peppers,
etc. There is always a sow and a litter of pigs
about the premises, and the numerous and prolific
chicken roosts on the thatched roof and the
branches of the peach tree, where the never-empty
cradle swings in the breeze. The amount of food-
stuffs the Chilian peon raises on a small patch of
sometimes-inferior land, aided by irrigation when
the natural rainfall is not sufficient, is a revelation
to a man bred on the land in Australia; and the
Elwood Mead fraternity could do worse than stud}'
Chilian methods before publishing their next com-
munique on intense culture. While the Senora and
the kids run the chacra the head of the house puts
in his time (or some of it) toiling in the mines or
on road or railway construction, and on account
of his hog and his multitudinous chicken and his
vegetable garden he is a bad man to argue with
when he feels like striking. If the conditions don’t
suit him he simply asks for his “time,” and Cin-
cinnatus-like gets back to the land, where he can
stay as long as the hog and the chicken on the
DOING HIS LITTLE BIT.
C HOLLY : “This is deuced hard work, Miss
Ethel, what? But, hang it all, I think
all the fellahs should do something in
this bally war, don't y' know."
roof-tree and the dried fruit and vegetables last.
As the bridge and culvert and railroad are always
in a greater hurry than the chacrero, he very often
gets what he wants, unlike the Australian toiler who
“goes out” without a bean to back him against a
hostile butcher and baker and a landlord with a
bulldog countenance.
HASTE TO THE WEDDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They met upon a train one day—
Twas in the western State—
And William seized a chance to say
He thought the weather great.
There followed some bucolic mirth,
And both, it seemed, were bound for Perth.
Five minutes of propinquity
(He held her hand the while)
Quite justified the kiss that he
Impressed upon her smile.
To match the locomotive's haste,
He twined his arms about her waist.
They hugged each other in the car,
She yielding to insistence—
It’s rare a courtship goes so far
In such a little distance.
“We’re nearin’ Southern Cross,” he said,
“Let's jump out, darling, and be wed.”
But she protested. How on earth
Could maiden be so rushed?
“Let’s wait until we get to Perth,”
She giggled and she blushed.
Said Bill: “Two hundred miles —no fear 1
I hate these long engagements, dear.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
WHEN MOTHER BAKES THE BREAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As a result of the bakers’ strike in Melbourne many
housewives are making their own bread; but it is
very much to be feared the making of home-made
bread is a lost art. — Melb. paper (10/5/’l6).
There was a time long, long ago
When mother always baked the bread ;
She mixed the flour, and set the dough,
And, in the old camp-oven spread,
The big loaves browned so crisp and fine,
They fairly made you long to dine ;
And, since, how oft has father ached
To taste the bread that mother baked!
The bakers are on strike to-day,
And once more mother makes the bread.
She’s not the same. No streak of grey
Is seen upon her bonny head.
She spills the flour, and stirs the yeast,
And bakes the loaves to serve the feast.
As fierce dyspepsy father rakes
He damns the bread that mother bakes.
The lean, dark loaves like graveboards stand—
Hard baked as hobs of Hell they are—
Old Dr. Brown is “doing grand,”
And gaily plying near and far;
All day the coffin carts have sped,
While mother grimly baked the bread.
His scythe cast down, but hot in strife,
Death flourishes the staff of life!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


"Politician
Pleads•
“The B£nch . (To b.ll Sikes):
Two Years or The^
A- 1 •F •"
The crv op the aceo Bluffer
Ha ?f 7 were, ao years
j YounCLR ..vC;
Thjl
Flappers
Feather
Da>d \a/hiske.r«>
ano THf School
COMMaTCE. WEUCOMC
* The Saltbush
RECRUITS .
“The Crano of
"Rifle, Club i Parade .
m the T^evuEL
mil Girl--
'(/]s° N )
me ERE
’You Co.”
/si o' r? niaV » j&v
HOW WE RAISE OUR ARMY.


THE HORSE LED TO THE WATER,
AUSTRALIA: “No carrot till you drink!”


Chaving
(>)t[CK
xteveß;
For an
Ideal Shave
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
LEWIS &WMITTY
MEI
r
>OUf\NE 4 SYDNEY
sR\\A.\MttSYt\H£
mm
safest, surest and
purest polish, yon
can buy. Keeps
brass or silver musi-
cal instruments like
new. Does the work
quickly
and easily. Sold
in two size cans by
ail Grocery, Hard-
ware and Drag
Stores.
look for Photo on On
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
\\ rit* for Book
Write for Book. CURES
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London. Eng.
Insist on " Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
BikxvX-XxWxv
wmm
x**:
Xv.v
1
V.Vv
©
The \\
“Buxton
If you would have the right
quality, shape, weight, and
price, wear WOODROW’S
famous hat always.
Obtainable all Leading Stores.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Scott Fletcher, Avell knoAvn in Brisbane
University circles as Master and founder
of King’s College, has arrived in N. S. Wales
to start the new Methody college in the
Sydney University and be its first principal,
lie is only coming back to bis own. In
1902 be graduated M.A. in Sydney, with
first-class honors in philosophy, securing the
University medal. During a three years’
residence in England he did some research
work at Oxford and took the degree of
B.Litt. Some people howled because it
Avasn’t a D.D., but he Avas AA r ell content to
escape that honorary distinction, and didn’t
howl once. He also published a book in
Loudon on “The Psychology of the Tes-
tament” —the sort of thing you don’t find on
the bookstalls.
MISTOOK THE TUNE.
SUSPICIOUS LANDLADY (suddenly popping
in): “What’s that noise?"
MR. MEEKLY: “Oh, I was only playing the
Scrcnata.”
S.L.: “Huh? That’s orlright. I thought
you wus shifting your luggage."
Lieut.-Commander Owen Hare, who has
arrived in Australia to take charge of
H.M.A.S. Brisbane when it is ready to put
to sea, is a young man who has already had
a volume or so of variegated service experi-
ences. In the present war he helped to
bottle up the German cruiser Ivonigsberg in
the Rufigi River, East Africa. Afterwards
his ship was detailed for duty at the Dar-
danelles. and assisted in the landing at Suvla
Bay and the evacuation of Anzac. He has
trained guns on Achi Baba, undergone bom-
bardment from the air. and had torpedoes
feeding out of his hand. His special hobby
is gunnery, in which he is an expert.
THE PROBLEM OF THE HOUR.
Billy Hughes Avas born in Wales in 1864,
Avhich makes him now 52. Birth-countries
and ages of his predecessors: “Toby” Barton,
Aus., 67; Alfred Deakin, Aus., 60 in Aug.;
J. C. Watson, Chili, 49; Geo. Reid. Scot-
land, 71; Andy Fisher, Scotland, 54 next
Aug.; Joseph Cook, Eng., 55.
The Commomvealtli Government pours a
bucket of contempt on the ructions between
the horse-doctor and the other panjandrums
of the Northern Territory by having them in-
quired into by a man Avhose life-job it is to
fine YelloAV Liz five shillings or the rising
for calling Constable De Vere anything but
a gentleman. Arthur Nelson Barnett, Avho
gets the job. began earning his keep in the
N.S.W. Lands Department, then transferred
to the Mines and became a warden, and next
AA-as a police-magistrate on the tAA-o jobs being
combined. When Rolf Boldrewood got off
the bench at Albury Barnett Avas given the
seat, and he hopped on to Sydney at the first
chance. He is a nimble, spry little man who
used to play cricket; and he is HebreAV
enough to know Avhat to do with his umbrella
Avhen it rains.
Castelnau. Avho arrived just in time to
stiffen the French resistance when the first
shock \\-as felt at Verdun, and Avho then did
magnificent service to the Allies, is France’s
other Joffre. When the nation had to decide
Avho Avas to be chief of the war-lords it Avas
a toss-up betAveen these two. The Anti-
Clerical Party in the French Chamber A-oted
Joffre as commander in chief, whereas the
Clerical party Avould have put Castelnau
there. But whatever heartburn Avas caused
is not shared by either of the principals,
AA'ho stand for a brotherhood-in-arms equal
to that of David and Jonathan. When
General Castelnau was later on given the
command of “the army in France,” Avith the
title of commander-in-chief, Joffre is said
to have jumped into his car and ridden for
two and a half hours to his friend’s camp,
in order to be the first to give the good
news and hand out congratulations. As he
hadn’t time to alight to even break a bottle,
the journey Avas more than a graceful act —
it Avas proof of the man’s big-heartedness.
Castelnau has had two out of three sons
killed at the Front, and so has more to
avenge than the Avrongs of France.
A second cousin of Thomas Carlyle died
at Albert Park (Melb.) last week, aged 91.
His mother was cousin to Carlyle’s mother,
and she married an Irving. The old Mel-
bourne identity was Thomas Carlyle Irving,
and he always tried to look the character.
Except that he succeeded in resembling his
distant relative he was an Uninteresting old
pioneer of the Vic. Western district. Pio-
neers have to be uninteresting if they want
to live a long time.
The late George Lansell. of Bendigo, is
AVell represented in the field. Cyril is
“somewhere in France” with a British regi-
ment ; Captain Victor is shortly leaving Aus-
trnlia for the Front;
Horace became a pri-
vate in the- A.I.F.
the other day, and
Leonard is only stay-
ing at home because
the authorities turned
him down for an in-
growing bald spot, or
something of the kind.
11. j, If. Blow, for
dearly ft quarter of a
century Secretary for
Public Works in
Maoriland, drops otit
of big old job and
makes wfty for Wil-
liam Stonham Short,
who iii the long ago
decorated a stool in
the office of David
Jones, in Sydney, and
afterwards did the
sftme thing ftt Far-
mer’s. On reaching
yeal-s of discretion he
entered the service of
the Maoriland Govern-
ment, and had so much
to do that he qualified
in law to relieve the
strain and subse-
quently became a sort
of perpetual commis-
sioner to explore the
frequent disputes be-
tween local bodies
about roads and the
riots among the local
Bumbles and hayseeds
concerning 2|d. About
three years ago he
also explored Austra-
lia to get mdteridl fdr
ft 1-epoi’t oil Local Gov-
ern rnent, Massey hav-
ing at that time an
idea that Australian
Bumbledom was a
desirable animal to
acclimatise in Iloki-
m awhangapi and
Karamapukiki. When
the Explorer handed
in particulars, Massey
shoved them into a
piireon-hole and forgot
their address. Short
is G 3, and will himself be packing up to
accept a pension before long.
Dr. Watters, formerly of Wellington
(M.L.), Avas hit by a dying bullet while
standing in a doorway during the recent ruc-
tions in Ireland, and died a few days later.
It was from the institution of which he was
principal at the time of his death—the
Catholic University School in Dublin —that
Watters went out to Maoriland early in
1885 to be the first rector of St. Patrick’s
College in Wellington at the invitation of
Archbishop Redwood, who had ordained him
priest, and under whose guidance he had
completed his studies at St. Mary's, Dundalk.
A brilliant scholar, he at the same time
attracted troops of friends by his AVinning
personality. Bright, alert, and Avith an
unfailing charm of temperament, he kept
St. Pati’ick’s College prominently before all
Maoriland in the 16 years he Avas at its head.
Egerton. near Ballarat, is proud of Miss
Margai’et Malone, a middle-aged, fresh-com-
plexioned Avoman Avho is not afraid of hard
work and looks as if it agrees AA-ith her. For
15 years she has worked a kaolin mine
Avbich she OAvns, and she also finds time to
do a bit of gold mining. She lately applied
to the District Warden’s Court for another
bit of Australia : she could see, she said, an
increased demand ahead for home-made pot-
tery, and AA T anted to get ready to supply the
raAA - material.
“Jack” Cullinan. an A.W.TJ. organiser avlh
enjoys an amazing popularity in the sheds
out on the Darling, is Holman’s particular
bull-ant, and was mainly responsible for the
upheaval in the I'ecent Labor Conference.
His suggestion, which was characteristic of
the man, that the next conference should be
held at Tibooburra, AA-as received in silence
by his fellow delegates. If he loses some of
his impetuosity, this typical mulga bushman
should go far in Avhat is coming to be called
the New Labor Movement.
At latest Primp Minister Hughes AA-as tak-
ing a course in canned French. He can
read the language, but pronunciation lias
hitherto been his stumbling-block, because,
owing to liis deafness, he is unable to appre-
ciate the finer nuances of the mother tongue
of the Boys of the Bullfrog Breed. So he
has been learning French by means of
gramophone records, in order to take part
Avitliout verbal handicap in the coming
Paris Conference.
The recollections of “Ex-wharfie” i
While Billy Hughes was acting as secretary to fh
then newly-formed Wharf Laborers’ Union I lu.i f rc !
fluent occasion to visit his little shop at Balmain in
the first ’9o's concerning union matters. The humble
establishment had a double shop-front. One of the
windows contained greengroceries and a small stock
of haberdashery, and that side was presided over la-
the first Mrs. Hughes, a practical helpmeet of the
portly, managing type. The other window and corres-
ponding portion of the shop was utilised bv the
now illustrious Billy as an umbrella hospital and
cobblery. On occasions the shop was invaded bv
non-workers prone to indulge in political discussion-
and union grievances generally. Owing to Billy's
inflrmity—deafness—the conversation sometimes
became so unpleasantly loud that Mrs. inches
would come bustling from the rear of the premise-
ami peremptorily order the discussionists to clear
out and give Billy a chance to get on with his wofk
as politics would never pay the rent. From which
you’ll guess that Mrs. Hughes didn’t know quite how
much politics can do.
“The Lane” went into some of its own
mourning when Duncan Love, pioneer rag-
trader. went out suddenly at TO. Fi-om the
retail firm of McKersie, Love and Co. lit
Collins-street the wholesale house of
McNanghton Love and Co. sprang in 1801,
and that’s when Duncan came in. Of all
the wholesale softgoods monarchs who
reigned in the ’oo’s and ’7o's only oiie
remains—Win. McNaughton Love, tin*
senior member of the firm, who lives in
London and is somewhere near 00.
Dr. Elizabeth Gunn, the Maorilander who
lifts been made ft surgeon-captain. Has sftiteil
awfty as medical officer in charge of ft trans-
port. According to all the records that can
be dug up. she is the first woman to ever
take on such a job.
John McConibe. the oldest of Melbourne
Grammar School boys, died last week at Cas-
terton (A'ic.). Wheil the schdol was first
opened in 1858 John's name was enteted bn
the roll. But he was already a 17-yeat-okl,
so he heft at the end of the fourth term.
T. E. Donne, just made Secretary to the
High Commissioner of Maoriland in succes-
sion to Palliser. will soon be weighing in
for a pension from a grateful country, for
he has put in nearly the full term of qualify-
ing: servieft. He was many years in the
Railways, and got his ribs broken, had con-
siderable reputation as a deer-stalker, ran
Joe Ward's glittering Tourist Department
on noble lines, tripped about to various
places as an Exhibition Commissioner, and
was finally stowed away by Ward in a
London job labelled “Commissioner for Im-
migration.’’ Donne is a native of Vic., a
friend of Ward’s since boyhood, and is
generally regarded by Maoriland public ser-
vants as a person who has not been pursued
fiercely by the slings and arrows of out-
rageous fortune.
NOT BACON, BUT HOG!
HANS (reading): “‘What a piece of work
is man! How noble in reason! How
infinite in facilities! In form and mol-
ing, how express and admirable! In
action, hole like an angel! In appre-
hension. how like a god! The beauty of
the world! The paragon of animals!'
There, Frit:, that proves Sha[?]
ros German. Who else could that
description fitl!”
BIVOUAC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The drooping darkness drifts and sways
Above the dreaming waterways
Where, but a moment since, the sun
Flung out his level, flaunting rays.
And here, beside the sleepy Nile,
I seemed to see the sunset smile
Across the Hunter River flats,
And my hot heart was stilled the while.
For oh! the net of memory flings
Swift magic over all the things
Of blood, and bitterness, and strife
That rage about the thrones of kings.
As memory flings her gleaming net,
In one swift moment I forget
These desperate months of blindfold war,
And bloodier business Avaiting yet.
Only I have to close mine eyes,
And, swift as thought, old visions rise
Of golden sands and gleaming sea —
Sydney a-dream ‘neath autumn skies!
Sydney ! O Sydney ! These far lands
Of bitterness and burning sands
Have starved the very heart of me:
I only want your gentle hands—
Your gentle hands that I have known
On summer eA’enings, when the blown
White spray would drift along the cliffs
Where I was wont to dream, alone.
Oh ! I have loved you all my days—•
Your little, sunlit, laughing bays,
Your loveliness of gold and green
By winding streams and waterways.
But never have I loved the grace
And beauty of your laughing face
As here, beside the sleepy Nile,
In this far-distant, outland place.
Let the dream pass! For we must wait
The passing of this storm of hate
Ere we sail back the way we came,
Victors, to our dear harbor-gate.
EGYPT.
A. [?]ANSON.


CIGARETTES.
(Heavy Weight).
THE FAMOUS BRAND ofW.D.&H.O.WILLS.
“There’s no sweeter Tobacco comes
from Virginia, and no better brand
than the ‘ Three Castles.’ ”
Thackeray's " The Virginian*
PUT UP IN
PACKETS
FLAT TINS
UPRIGHT TINS
AIRTIGHT ROUND TINS of 50
z
W.D&HOfWILLS
TRY THEM
A name that has been before the world for nearly 200 year*
in connection with the manufacture of Tobacco.
u


Overall, McCray, Ltd.
Bald Rock,
BALMAIN.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS Deep and Shallow
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Send for Booklet on our AIR LIFT for non-flowing bores and where the water has receded.
Satisfactorily tested by the Water Conservation Department, Sydney. Adopted by the Government
for increasing supply at Pera Bore, Bourke. " ' [2
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Dine Excavators.
Sole Agents—WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney : —■
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 p.c.= 45,000 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 „ „ 45,000 26,330 357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO. . 257,915
Mar., 1911. .107,833 10 p.c.= 50,000 57,833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 „ „ 50,000 49,732 365,480
Mar., 1912. .124,403 10 „ „ 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO. . 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c.= 65,000 40,303 380,186
Assets written up, £350,000 .. 730,186
Transferred to Capital, £550,000. . 180,186
1 ~ K ~ \
Ord. Pref.
(10p.c.) (6p.c.)
Mar., 1913.. 86,126 55,000 16,500 14,626 194,812
(8 p.c.)
Sept., 1913.. 80,613 55,000 22,000 3,613 198,425
(10 p c.)
Mar., 1914. .169,062 55,000 27,500 86,562 284,987
Transferred to Capital, £137,500 .. 147,487
Sept., 1914.. 99,901 61,875 27,500 10,526 158,013
Mar., 1915. .172,773 61,875 27,500 83,398 241,411
Sept., 1915.. 82,022 61,875 27,500 234,058
9 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1916.. 99,771 55,687 19,250 24,834 258,892
The directors “have thought it advisable,
in view of the decrease of trade, the great
increase in the cost of production and the
additional taxation, to reduce the dividend.”
The increase in costs won’t be maintained,
but the decrease of trade probably will be.
After the experience of S. Aus. and Tas-
mania the Trade in N. S. Wales throws up
the sponge so far as the old 11 o’clock clos-
ing is concerned, and spends a heap of
money in inviting the public to vote at the
coming referendum for 9 o’clock as its first
choice and 8 o’clock as its second. This
looks like a desperate effort to wheedle up
some of the unattached voters who in the
other States made such a smash of the
Trade’s hopes by voting for 6 o’clock. Any-
how, so far as the investor is concerned,
there is the fact; anything past 9 o’clock
closing is out of the question, and the chances
are that it w’ill be something short of 9
o’clock. We don’t know for certain what
effect this is going tp have on the trade; but
it is quite certain that it is going to knock
oul a w’hole lot of drinking, and probably
will affect beer more than the less bulky
spirits, which will be nipped in larger quan-
tities at home. Here and there there may
be a pub which will do a much enhanced
bulk trade (for instance, the pubs handy to
Circular Quay, in Sydney) ; but generally
speaking the pub is going to be a less gilded
proposition, and rental and capital value
W’ill both come a cropper—if they haven’t
come a cropper already. This, of course, will
seriously affect most brewery cos.; and
Tooth’s probably ow’ns as many pubs as any
of them.
The balance-sheet figures have moved this
w’ay in the last 10 years :
March, ’O6. March, T 6.
Liabilities.. .. £16,139 £46,570
Assets—■
Breweries, etc. . . 631,157 1,454,411
Book debts . . 236,783 258,219
Stock . . . . 77,621 205,417
Liquid . . . . 191,980 263,852
But with regard to the big increase in the
“Brew'eries, etc..” item, note that in 1912
assets were written up £350.000; and that
accounts for some of the long jump. Still,
allowing for that, the all-round growth in
the 10 years has been remarkable; and not
a penny of new’ capital has been got in dur-
ing that time from the shareholders. Cer-
tainly the capital has been very nearly
doubled (it stood at £900,000 for a long
while and is now £1.787.500) ; but the wdiole
of the added £887,500 is capitalised profit.
The capital is now’ £1,237.500 in ordinaries
and £550,000 in G p.c. cumulative prefs.
which don’t stop at G p.c. To pay the pre-
sent 9 p.c. on the one and 7 p.c. on the
other requires £149.874 a year; and the
average annual profit for the past six years
has been £227.900. This is net; and there
has certainly been a large additional sum
made, put into plant and premises, and not
disclosed as profit. It was some of this that
w'as capitalised a while ago. So, if the aver-
age profits are one-third less than they have
been in the last six years, it would still be
possible to pay the present dividend ; and in
that connection it has to be remembered that
on account of the accumulation of profits
the co. has a half-million more revenue-pro-
ducing assets now' than it had w’hen 1910
opened. So the future isn’t all gloom.
* * * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Insur-
ance Society (now Ltd.), of Sydney:—
Bonus to Added Total
Policy- to Re-
Profits. Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
1903.. 17,184 16* p.e. = 8,248 4248 4,688 116,221
1904.. 23,313 16* „ „ 8,290 4290 10,733 126.954
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 114.454
1905.. 21,447 14} p.c. = 9,312 4312 7,823 122,277
1906.. 20,403 14} ~ „ 9,262 4262 6,879 129456
1907.. 21,562 14} „ ~ 9,237 4238 8,087 137,243
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 124,743
1908.. 21,230 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 14 „ ~ 10,553 4553 3,171 134 284
1910.. 22,337 14a „ ~10,983 4984 6,370 140.654
£15,000 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 125.654
1911.. 24,005 13* p.c. = 12,040 5140 6,825 132,479
1912.. 22,640 14 ~ ~ 12,588 5388 4,664 137 143
1913.. 20,944 14} „ ~13.497 6297 1.150 138,293
1914.. 20,302 15} ~ ~14,205 7005 137,385
1915.. 18,271 16 ~ ~14,424 7224 134,008
1916.. 25,614 17g „ ~15,944 8744 926 134,934
This co. pays a regular 8 p.c. by way of
“interest” and then divides 20 p.c. of the pre-
miums equally between shareholders and
policy-holders. The distribution is excessive,
with the result that reserves are not now
increasing as rapidly as they ought to in
view of the growth of premiums, and, there-
fore, of risks. Fortunately in past times,
when the business was growing much more
slowly, the co. got itself into a very strong
position; so, notwithstanding the excessive
bonus paid of late, the co. offers extraordi-
nary security to the policy-holders. A first-
class British co. is thought to be strong
enough if it has £l7O of paid capital and
reserves for every £lOO of premiums; the
Australian Mutual has nearly £3lO. If by
some terrible mischance it were to-morrow
to be faced with claims 10 times greater
than the average annual losses for the past
three years, it would have enough assets to
meet them. In actual cash, including
deposits, it holds as much as the total of all
the losses of the past four years. Nobody
with insurance to give aw r ay can reasonably
want better security than that. One would
certainly have to go a long way to find it.
The next table shows how rapidly the
business has progressed of late years:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £29,415 £6,717 £12,828 22.8 p.c. 43.6 p.c.
1900.. 33,888 8,131 13,765 24.0 „ 40.7 „
1905.. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19.8 „ 41.6 „
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44.8 „
1912.. 44,821 12,322 19,312 27.5 „ 43.1 „
1913.. 53,260 17,478 25,056 32.8 „ 47.0 „
1914.. 58,522 21,992 27,899 37.5 „ 47.7 „
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 47.1 „
1916.. 71,557 23,618 32,594 33.0 „ 45.5 „
In the 10 years between 1895 and 1905 less
than £7OOO was added to the premiums; in
the next 10 years, over £24.000; in the last
12 months alone over £ll,OOO. Fortunately
the loss rate was low during the past year,
otherwise it is certain that, in order to pay
the 10 p.c. bonus to shareholders, there
would have had to be another cut at the
accumulated profits. Indeed, since this co.
has no special Reserve for Unexpired Risks,
and since it is probable that a good deal of
the extra premium income has not yet been
actually earned, the risks being still current,
the chances are that more profit was divided
for last year than was really made. Alto-
gether it seems highly probable that before
many years are past the co. w’ill have to
reconsider its system of distributing profits.
This, however, is a matter of immediate
interest only to the shareholder and in-
vestor. So far as the policy-holder and
possible policy-holder are concerned the only
things that count are: (1) that the co.
holds in cash an amount in excess of a
year’s total premiums and has in city pro-
perty and mortgages an amount in excess
of two years’ premiums, both of which are
remarkable figures; (2) that these assets
are on the spot, which is a matter of con-
siderable importance these times; and (3)
that the shareholders are Australian, and,
in these times especially, it is most desirable
that we should keep the profit from our owu
business in our ow r n hands. The profit we
send out of the country reduces the income
of Australians, and that adds to the amount
of tax which has to be borne by the income
that remains behind. In other words, every
Australian who lets soniebody outside Aus-
tralia make a profit out of him, instead of
giving it to an Australian, adds to the
amount of war tax which he must pav
himself.
John Bridge and Co., Limited, wool and
pastoral produce salesmen, of Sydney and
elsew'here: —
1 Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1910.. _ £3,602
Premium on new shares ..£29,660 33,262
1911. .£18,885 £1320 20 p.c.=£15,600 1,965 35,227
Premium on new shares .. 7,675 42,902
1912.. 13,824 1320 10p.c.= 8,576 3,928 46,830
Assets written down, £14,000 . . 32,830
1913.. 11,779 1320 10p.c.= 8,807 1,652 34M82
1914.. 21,198 1320 12*„ „ 11,009 43,351
1915.. 16,762 1320 5 „ „ 4,404 11,038 54,389
Written off securities, £6OOO .. 48,389
1916.. 10,608 1320 10p.c.= 8,808 480 48,869
“Your directors feel,” they say, “that with
such grave prospects ahead it is their urgent
duty to still further safeguard their clients’
and shareholders’ interests”; and they pro-
ceed to do the safeguarding by paying away
a dividend which eats up all but a poor little
£4BO of the year’s profits. It is possible
that the £1735 set aside for State and
Federal income taxes may not be sufficient,
in which case the surplus for the year will
be less than £4BO. The one thing that can
be pleaded in mitigation is that in the pre-
vious year the dividend was so cut that £5038
was left over even after specially writing
down assets by £6OOO on account of war and
drought. That, by the way, was the second
recent special writing-down, which suggests
that the co. might well do a bit more pruning
as a regular thing.
Like most of these w r ool and produce cos.
Bridge’s has been enticed in the past few
years of great plenty to spend a good deal
on bricks and mortar, some of it in Brisbane,
where a local Board has been established.
This and a considerable increase in the ad-
vances —mostly made, no doubt, to secure
business —has necessitated pretty large lia-
bilities. The next table shows the growth
in various lines :
Liabilities.
_ 1911- 1914. 1915. 1916.
Capital. . . . £lOO,OOO £110,075 £110,075 £110.075
Mortgages, etc. 44,139 136,747 189,989 173,797
Assets.
Properties .. 111,333 156,559 165,586 165 315
Advances, etc. 42,547 133,348 183,331 155’835
Plant, etc. .. 12,517 11,424 11,106 13,766
Liquid assets. . 28,970 , 2,312 1,856 9,686
Almost everything depends on the advances,
etc. —or, as it appears in the accounts, “ad-
vances against wool and produce and sundry
debtors’ accounts.” The value of these can’t,
of course, be checked: generally speaking,
however, it isn’t the business of these cos. to
make advances, and the less of such things
they show the better this paper likes their
balance-sheets. There is always a suspicion
that a co. in this line of business will swallow
a doubtful security for the sake of the com-
mission that is sticking out.
The future, as the directors say, has “grave
prospects.” Still, there is no reason to
expect a funeral in the case of Bridge’s.
There will be less wool to sell for a year or
two ; but flocks recover with almost marvel-
lous rapidity after a drought. The greatest
element of uncertainty in the future is with
regard to price. There is going to be much
poverty after the war, and in that period it is
highly probable that wool will have little
demand and become cheap. And cheap wool
means poor commission earnings for John
Bridge and Co.
* * * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., TO. .£6463 10 p.c.=£3446 £2Ol £2816 £8,536
Sept., TO.. 4424 10 „ „ 2486 386 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £2450 .. 12,538
Mar., ’ll. . 6655 10 p.c.= 2876 1612 2167 14,705
Premiums on new shares, £2960 .. 17,665
Sept.,’ll.. 8151 10 p.c.= 3968 4183 21,848
Premiums on new shares, £4016 . . 25,864
Mar., T 2.. 7241 10 p.c.= 5675 956 610 26,474
Sept., T 2.. 7773 Nil 7773 34,247
Mar., T 3.. 7302 7*p.c.= 5117 2185 36,432
Sept., T 3.. 8653 7* „ „ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar., T 4.. 6365 7* „ „ 5248 1117 40,943
Sept., T 4. . 5021 Nil 5021 45,964
Mar., T 5.. 5008 *6p.c. = 8397 42,575
Sept., T 5.. 3655 5 „ „ 3499 156 42,731
Mar., T 6. . 6014 7 „ „ 4898 1116 43,847
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
This co. has never quite settled down.
Things were “anyhow,” and had been “any-
how” for years before the Commercial of
Australia was very glad to see the last of
the business. Tom Davis formed a co.
to run the concern, and this co., new at the
game, had to feel its way in the time-payment
part. Apparently the investing public got a
bit scared at the very rapid growth of lia-
bilities, the result of financing the time-pay-
ment sales; and the directors themselves ap-
parently realised that they ought to make
their reserves stronger. Then Tom Davis,
who had been chairman, died ; and now 7 there
is practically a new Board, wfith Arthur
McElhone as chairman, and one of the Tait
brethren in a seat.
The figures are no longer flying in the
direction they were going when the investor
got nervous. Look here :
Liabilities.
Mar.,’ll. Mar.,’ls. Sept.,To. Mar,’l6.
Capital. . . . £74,000 £140,233 £140,233 £140,233
Sundry creditors 43,078 20,724 18,890 17,582
Assets.
Freeholds .. 16,761 Nil Nil Nil
Stock . . . . 34,617 44,732 51,421 58,631
Sundry debtors 80,850 161,719 146,535 140,847
Plant, etc. . . 3,457 5,371 4,828 4,960
Cash & sundries 1,386 607 3,068 2,622
For a concern which is carrying on a time-
payment business (practically all the sundry
debtors are “hire agreements”) the liabili-
ties are now extraordinarily small; and, see-
ing that unearned interest and insurance
have been deducted from the amounts owing
by customers, there is no reason to suspect
that the reserves of £43,847 are not the real
thing—especially as there is a bit of bad
debts reserve in addition. If, then, as
seems likely, the assets are w’orth what they
are alleged to be, there is £1 6s. 3d. standing
behind every £1 share. But one of course
doesn’t only want to see his principal: he
wants some fair assurance that it will earn
profit. Even though there may be a slack
time ahead, Nicholson’s, if it is carefully
managed, ought to be able to give a reason-
able return. Though goodwill doesn’t figure
in the balance-sheet, the name is very well
and widely knowrn; and, the directors say,
“ample supplies of suitable high-class instru-
ments have been secured.”
National Mortgage and Agency Co. of
Maoriland :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904. . £32,610 8* p.c. = £16,999 £15,611 £77,400
1905.. 40,240 10 „ „ 20,000 20,240 97,640
1906.. 34,880 10 „ „ 20,000 14,880 112,520
1907.. 35,226 10 „ „ 20,000 15,226 127,746
1908.. 35,456 10 „ „ 20,000 15,456 143,202
1909.. 38,141 11J „ „ 22.500 15,641 158,843
1910.. 38,505 11-1 „ „ 22,500 16,005 174,848
1911.. 41,149 12* „ „ 25,000 16,149 190,997
1912.. 41,669 12* „ „ 25,000 16,669 207,666
1913.. 41,056 12* „ ~ 25,000 16,056 223,722
1914.. 40,789 12* „ „ 25,000 15,789 239,511
1915.. 39,356 12* „ „ 25,000 14,356 253,867
Owing to war prices the Polar end of Maori-
land, where the frozen sheep grows, has been
booming; and this co. has boomed with it.
The gross profits for the year were the high-
est in the co.’s 40 years ; but war taxation
came in just in time to take a bite out of
the bloated revenue as it was flying for
safety into the shareholders’ pockets. Next
year the same teeth will close on a larger
mouthful. In 1915 Britain got in for an
extra £5OOO ; but Maoriland bit out only £250
more than usual. In the current year,
however, it will be that much multiplied by
10 at least. And next year and the year
after, and Heaven only knows how many
years after that. And. in those years w’hen
the co. w'ill pay, there will be no War Office
spending money by the hundred million in
the purchase of frozen sheep and other things
at prices that don’t matter.
4 his co. will no doubt get immediate con-
solation from the fact that its profits are
now very much in excess of the 124 p.c. div.,
and have been so for the past 12 years; and
if it was possible to earn the necessary
£25.000 twelve years ago it ought to be
much easier now, other things being equal,
seeing that nearly £200,000 —that is to say,
an amount almost equal to the capital—has
been added to the undivided profits during
that period. Put in another way, supposing
this money is earning only 5 p.c., then the co.
would be in just as good a position as it was
12 years ago. even if it now had to pav an
additional £lO.OOO in taxation. lake most
pastoral finance cos. it owes a good deni t
money £958,219. But it has* alway s i° 0
recent years, at any rate—put itself f a ;„
safe first by holding upwards of one-ffl
liquid or semi-liquid, and second bv bom™
ing only on long-dated debentures I> T
the short loan that the Australasian
mortgage co. has to beware of.
mortgagee can take his own time to realise
his securities, he will never lose money unless
he has made a ridiculous advance Tf if
has to realise when things are 'at their
worst, is almost certain to drop a lot.
The Castlemaine Brewery, Ltd
mantle, W.A.J ’ u re '
Writ-
Dividend ten To Re- r„
Profits. and Tax. Off. serves serve*
June, ’12..£5626 10 p.c.=£3150 £BO6 £1670 £l7flli
Dec., ’12.. 5420 10 „ „ 3150 849 1421 19
June, 13. . 6131 10 „ „ 3150 854 2127 21 4RQ
Dec., ’13.. 6224 10 „ „ 3160 904 2170 23 659
June, ’14.. 4954 10 „ „ 3675 873 406 24 nfis
Dec., ’14.. 5476 10 „,, 3675 855 946 25 01?
June, ’15.. 4748 7*„„ 2756 845 1147 26 15s
Dec., 15. . 4525 5,, ~ 1837 846 1842 28^000
The directors allege that, compared with the
corresponding half of 1914, costs during the
last six months were £2091 higher, “with-
out any increase in the selling prices”
Nevertheless, if the accounts really mean
what they say, things were still pleasant
enough ; for after making what is alleged to
be ample provision for all sorts of deprecia-
tion and for doubtful debts, the net profit
was £3679, which is at the rate of just on
to 10 p.c. p.a. The liabilities are a very
moderate £15,890, and there are more or
less liquid assets, including stock and book
debts, totalling about £24,(XX). What other
assets there are it is impossible to say,
because the goodwill froth floats on top of
the tangible beer, and there is no telling the
thickness of the froth, and therefore the
depth of the beer. Still, even if a brewery
co. itemised all its assets you couldn’t teil
what their breaking-up value would be.
Mostly the brewery doesn’t offer you solid
value for your principal—in other words, it
can rarely show' you 20s. in the £ if the busi-
ness was wound up. Almost everything
depends, then, upon the maintenance of the
profits: if they disappear, a lot of the prin-
cipal disappears, too. In England brew'ery
interests used to he regarded in very much
the same way as public securities: they were
one of the things the maiden aunt w T as
advised to empty her stocking into. The
idea w r as imported to Australia; but it is
a world of swift changes w T e are living in.
and it is just as w r ell for the maiden aunt to
understand that some of the principal as
well as the interest is in these days at stake.
Choiseul Plantations, Ltd.—This is
another of the Islands development cos. in
the Burns-Philp stable. The original idea
was to grow copra in the British Solomons;
but w r hen they looked around and saw, among
other things, the difficult labor problem there,
they decided to move north and see what the
Kaiser would offer in Bougainville, the
largest of the German Solomons. Ap-
parently William was being very affable just
then —it was in 1912—and told the co. to
go ahead and select 12,500 acres. Lucas,
B.P.’s Islands manager, w T ho is general mana-
ger for the Choiseul Co., chose four areas on
the north and north-east coast. Before the
lid flew’ off the co. had got a title to 10.000
acres; and, since the British occupation
began, “official recognition,” as it is put, has
been granted to the co.’s occupation of the
other 2500 acres. The soil, of course, had
to be good; but it isn’t so difficult in the
Islands to get good soil as it is to secure
plenty of labor. Now 7 , it’s a good wind that
doesn’t blow 7 anybody ill; consequently as
soon as the w 7 ar started people interested in
Choiseul began asking one another w'hat was
going to happen to their labor supply. The
British Solomons Protectorate was not allow-
ing indentured labor to be brought in from
outside; and the local supply is so poor now
that it costs £lO to recruit a two-year boy.
whereas only five or six years ago you could
get a five-year boy for £5. The Germans
would allow recruiting in German New
Guinea to supplement the German Solomons’
supply; and the question was whether that
would be stopped. In case of accidents this
co., as it naively put it last year, “decided to
proceed vigorously with the engagement of as
many natives as can be secured”; and the
result is certainly astonishing. Solomon
Islands Development Co., a 8.-P. concern
W’hich w'orks in the old British part, had
after eight years, at the date of its last report,
about l'<o boys (its maximum w’as about
400) ; Choiseul. after five years, had 1141
boys. And whereas in 1915 the S.I. Devel-
opment Co. added only 198 acres to its plan-
tation. Choiseul added 1763 acres. The
total area under eocoanuts at the end _of
November was 2598 acres and another 528
acres were more or less ready; including its
purchases, the S.I.D. Co. had 3654 acres
planted and in preparation at the date of its
last report. At Nov. 30 Choiseul had issued
1000 shares of £lOO each and had called up
£25 : and it ow'ed on all accounts £9788. The
properties stood in the books at £24,138
plus £2051 spent on administration, and there
are other assets totalling £9853. This cur-
rent year, wfith the big labor force available,
it is reckoned to spend £15.000. which will
be got in by three calls of £5 each.
* * * *
The Darling Downs Building Society
(Toowoomba, Q.) :
To
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1903. . A 1,354 6 p.e. = £917 £437 £1225
1904.. 1,545 6 „„ 1,149 396 1621
1905.. 2,284 6 „„ 1,782 502 2123
1906.. 3,012 6 „ „ 2,401 611 2734
1907.. 4,023 6 ~ „ 3,009 1014 3748
1908.. 5,859 7 „„ 4,844 1015 4763
1909.. 6,935 7 „„ 6,201 734 549/
1910.. 8.114 7 „„ 7,353 761 6258
1911.. 10,422 7 „„ 8,953 1469 772/
1912.. 12.428 7 „ ~11,010 1418 9145
1913.. 12,929 7 „,, 12,327 602 9747
1914.. 13,713 7 ~,,13,577 136 9883
1915.. 14,074 7 ~,, 14,125 9832


The British Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd.
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
fstinohcmsf
JjjjUnchester
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Worksi tj-ftfjord „P»rK, Maiwh»»ter, Boland.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 81,500 0 0
£782,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~~
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
“If you would eat the kernel you must crack the
nut, - ’ is an old proverb and a true one. When
you’ve proved it then you know. If you would
know the supreme merit of “Chromol” belting you
should use it on j r our power plants. This mineral-
tanned belting is used exclusively on many of the
most important drives in the largest mining plants
of the Commonwealth. It has proved itself a
durable, pliable power transmitter that resists heat
and damp and does not readily deteriorate.
“Chromol” cuts out waste power and is a profit-
earner. J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., “Pioneer
Leather Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney (opp.
Q. V. Markets). Inter-State agents: Victoria: Geo.
Russell P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne;
South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; West Australia: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth; Queensland: Queensland
Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane; Broken Hill: Geo.
Dempsey, Argent Street.— +-Advt.
Bad light makes life a misery, ruins the temper
and cripples the eyesight. The British-made Mazda
lamp, like the discoveries of Newton, notches another
point in the world’s progress. To use other lamps is
an extravagance. Be saving; be wise; throw them
away ; also be patriotic. The Mazda is a wonderful
lamp, and it’s British made. — Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An:
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete; the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.— Advt. [3
* * * *
Extract from Joint Stock Companies Journal,
London, 15th September, 1915: “Insurance.—
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society. The Acci-
dent Branch-—in which the policyholders have the
unusual privilege of sharing in the profits by means
of a system of bonuses—is steadily progressing in
the magnitude of its operations and the amount
of its profits. It is in the Ordinary Branch, how-
ever, that people in this country are interested.
It is the backbone of the whole thing; and in all:
respects it presents an appearance of strength
and vigor which promises still better things to come,,
despite war and all its troubles.”— Advt. [2:
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe is manufactured
for all purposes. It is the cleanest of all classes of
conduit—is much cheaper than steel or iron pipes.
The pipe is light and easy to move about, and when
kept saturated is practically everlasting. Catalogue
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York
Street, Sydney (head office). — Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting? Tf
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
**'*.#
The celebrated “Leplastrier” road-graders are most
suitable for Australian conditions. Prices range
from £25 upwards. Full particulars from the Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane.— Advt.
Vislok is a single, self-contained lock nut, consist-
ing of two sections hydraulically forced together.
Vislok has a solid, continuous thread throughout, and
when locked gives a regular and positive hold on the
thread of the bolt. Vislok is so constructed that the
energy of the working load and vibratory force ■
exerted upon it tend to increase the locking action.
Vislok can be used as an ordinary nut, and is easily
applied in confined spaces. Vislok will not injure
the bolt-thread, and is quickly locked or unlocked
with an ordinary spanner. At the present time
Vislok is proving its usefulness on the Government
Railways and at the Cockatoo and the Naval Dock
Yards. Agents: B. J. Ball, Limited, Sydney and!
Brisbane; Elder, Smith and Co., Melbourne and!
Adelaide; Elder, Shenton and Co., Fremantle andl
Perth; Colin J. Shields, Launceston.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new Stear
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcoc
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Pater
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leadin
mines in Australia.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Me!
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writ
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s $ Oertling
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemieals r
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H I
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED
Branches in every State..
Write for particulars..
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Chailis House, Sydney
£1469, £I4IS, £602, £136, £5l less than
nothing—that’s how the surplus profit avail-
able for contingencies has moved during the
past five years. Matthew, having to write
a paragraph about the pig market, described
how a mob (Mark, on the other paper, said
there were about 2000 of them) ran violently
down a steep place. This paper merely
adds, for the benefit of the directors of this
concern, that there was cold pig at the
bottom. It isn’t as though the co. had had
long years to build up reserves. It started
less than 20 years ago, and of its advances,
which now total £229,645, four-fifths have
been made during the past five years, when
mostly boom values have prevailed. To pay
a dividend which actually cuts into the
wretched little reserves is, in such circum-
stances, most reprehensible. The fact of
the matter is a 7 p.c. div. is too much to
expect thus early from an office which works
wholly on its own money.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1909.. £605 9 p.c. = £472 £133 £7,555
Mar., 1910.. 648 9 „ „ 478 170 7,725
Sept., 1910.. 968 9 „„ 472 496 8,221
Mar., 1911.. 950 9 „ „ 472 478 8,699
Sept., 1911.. 1009 9 „„ 472 537 9,236
Mar., 1912.. 1071 9 „ „ 472 599 9,835
Sept., 1912.. 1014 10 „„ 561 453 10,288
Mar., 1913.. 996 10 „ „ 550 446 10,734
-t qi q J »02 10 „ „ 545 357 11,091
Sept., lam.. \ written off, £5OO .. .. 10,591
Mar., 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
Spnt 1914 1 927 79 99 99 seo 377 11,432
sept., lyi *. • j Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Mar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
S P nt 1915 \ 891 15 »-> 868 23 n ’ l72
Sept., i9io.. j written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Prospects are good: 18 months ago, when
the co. first disclosed the value of estates in
hand, the total was £757,014; now it is
£879,752. And it deserves still more busi-
ness —every trustee co. does. In addition
to the fact that it is trained to the job and
won’t die or be away just when it is wanted,
it has £20.823 of funds guaranteeing its good
behavior —£10.257 on mortgage, £3500 in
premises and the balance liquid or lodged
with the Treasurer. On top of that, iu
case anything should go wn-ong with the
clients’ interests through the default of the
co., the mostly-fat shareholders have under-
taken to supply anything up to £25,000 out
of their own pockets. There’s no private
trustee who will put himself in bonds of that
sort.
The first 10,000h.p. unit of the Tasmanian
hydro-electric scheme is now running, and
chief-engineer Butters says the next thing to
do is to make it at least three times as big.
It has a long w T ay to go yet before it can
supply the 50,000 h.p. which Mount Lyell
says it wants for treating the Hercules-
Rosebery ores; but the Great Lake is
reckoned to be good for anything up to
75,000 or 80,000 horse-power, and it is not
the only pebble on the beach. The 10,000
h.p. is already booked up, for Amalgamated
Zinc wants 4000 to start with, the Hydro-
Electric Co. (which owned the whole outfit
to start with) lias bound itself to take 3500
to make calcium carbide, and the Hobart
City Council mops up the rest. On the
figures the thing is going to be a financial
success almost from the start.
• * * *
When the Hydro-Electric Co. sold out
the Great Lake water-power scheme to the
Tasmanian Government it got, in part pay-
ment, the right to a block of power, begin-
ning at 3000 horse-power and rising to
10,000, if it wanted that much, at a price
that works out at about l-10d. per unit.
Its idea was to use this for making calcium
carbide and for metallurgical works at
North-west Bay, the latter to treat complex
zinciferous ores by the Gillies process. Since
the Mt. Lyell Co. and Amalgamated Zinc
came into the ring with talk of contracts
running up to 30,000 or 50,000 h.p., the
metallurgical works of the Hydro-Electric
have taken a back seat; but if the co. can
pull itself together and get busy within a
reasonable time there ought to be a good
thing in the calcium carbide. The other day
it jumped £5 per ton owing to short sup-
plies and high freights from U.S.A. ; it is
quoted wholesale now at £29 and £3O per
ton, while before the war it was from £lB
to £2O.
* * * *
There is still corn in Egypt, according to
Bowes Kelly, who was moved to open his
heart at the starting-up of the first unit
of the Tasmanian water-power scheme.
Mount Lyell engineers, he says, have
estimated the ore in sight in the
Hercules-Rosebery group of mines, over
which the Lyell Co. has an option,
at 800,000 tons, with an average value
at pre-war prices of between £9 and
£lO per ton. How much there is out of
sight they don’t say, nor do they allow any-
thing in the values for the sulphur in the ore,
which they reckon at over 30 p.c. Anyway,
Bowes Kelly reckons it safe to put the value
of the stuff in sight at £10,000,000. In-
quiries have satisfied Sticht that the elec-
trolysis of these complex zinciferous ores
is a sure thing. The Mount Lyell Co.
reckons that part of the 50,000 horse-power
can profitably be used in extracting the sur-
plus sulphur from the Mount Lyell ore as
well as from the Hercules-Rosebery stuff,
and it thinks that with the superphosphate
business booming it need not worry about a
market.
* * * *
Mount Lyell announces a 2s. dividend. It
has only had a three months’ run of the
1100-a-ton copper contract, so big figures
won’t materialise till next balance-sheet.
\A hat the Board thinks of the war-profit tax
is indicated by its earmarking £65,000 for
the collector. To pay a 2s. div. means
putting up £129,000, and as net profits for
the six months ended March 31 were only
£110,600, secretary Lumsden has had to dip
into the big carry-forward with which he
started the half-year. Since the war began
Mount Lyell profits have worked out this
way
Sept., March, Sept., March,
Half-year ended 1914. 1915. 1915. 1916.
Gross profit . . £58,427 £124,988 £192,250 £214,936
Written off . . 28,793 22,868 34,779 39,323
Provision for taxes 317 3,900 18,400 65,054
Net profit. . £29,317 £98,220 £139,071 £110,559
* * * *
“Drill Four” : The change of Government
in Tasmania has thrown into the dim future
any decision upon the offer of the Railton-
Latrobe Shale Oil Co.’s property to the
State Government. The new Ministry
hasn’t any ideas on the subject, and has
referred the whole thing back to the Works
Committee. One Committee has already
reported on it once, but there’s another
to be appointed soon, so it can go all over
the ground again. Dr. Wade, lent by the
Commonwealth Government, estimated that
after deducting depreciation and all exes,
there would be a profit of £13,565, at which
rate the Government would pay off its cap-
ital outlay in 13 years, while there’s enough
shale to keep going for well over 100 years.
But it is obvious that the Government or
the Committee or somebody thinks there’s a
“catch” in it somewhere.
North Mount Farrell (Tas.) has declared
a 2s. div., which will cost £BOOO. The out-
put for six months to the end of April was
9605 tons ; from this 334 tons of high-grade
silver-lead ore was picked out, and the
balance sent to the mill, which produced
1224 tons of concentrates.
* * • *
The value of the ore broken in the Boul-
der Perseverance (W.A.) is still low,
developments, except for an occasional patch,
are disappointing, and increased working
costs, due to further advances in the price
of stores, are cutting into the already atten-
uated profits. Perseverance at depth is
hopeless, and its days as a big mine seem to
be numbered.
Kalgurli (W.A.) did not pay the usual
quarterly dividend last month, but hopes to
give shareholders something early in July.
Increased taxation is the reason given for
lidding back the distribution. There is no
improvement in the appearance of the mine.
Battler (W.A.) is tipped for a rise
before or immediately after the first clean-
up from the battery now in course of erec-
tion. The reef, though of decent value, is
small —scarcely big enough to justify one in
calling it a mine.
* * * *
Some news has come to hand about the
Yilgarn Consols (W.A.) and its Burtville
options. The latter comprise two leases
known as the Karridale and Bond’s Find.
Both were worked some years ago by pro-
spectors, and in Bond’s lease, in which rich
stone is reported to have been struck, the
shoot was of ribbon thickness and very
erratic. The new find may be all right, but
a report from somebody of repute would
enable the public to swallow the official
statements more easily.
Hopes are still entertained of Westralia
Mt. Morgan. A body of ore struck at the
No. 2 level 12 months ago is being opened
up, and, while values are poor, low costs
allow small profits to be made. Over 2000
tons are being treated monthly, and the
present owners, with A. E. Morgans at their
head, have expectations of running a few
more stamps before long. A few other
graves of British capital in the same locality
are also being reopened.
Commodore (W.A.) has decided, as sug-
gested by The Bulletin, to look out for
another property. The co. has several
options in view, but so far has not nibbled
at any of them. Its cash position is first
rate, and good profits are expected to be
earned from accumulated slimes on its pre-
sent show.
Payne’s Find Co. (W.A.) struggles on.
Last half-year’s receipts totalled £1325, but
all this and £4OO besides was absorbed in
expenses, and an additional £247 was ear-
marked for depreciation. The co. now puts
its indebtedness down at £6OBB, and assets,
apart from a calling power of £7223 and
7000 reserve shares, are said to be worth
£2482; but as most of this represents plant
which wouldn’t bring much under the ham-
mer, the break-up value of the belongings is
much less than the figures given. Opera-
tions are still hampered by scarcity of effi-
cient labor and costly mining and the high
cost of explosives and mining supplies.
Altogether it looks as if the co. has got the
last straw on its back. About 600 tons of
ore estimated to average 30dwt. are in sight,
but shareholders will get nothing out of it.
Westonia blames the boosting Central
crowd for the Federal Treasurer’s refusal to
sanction the Edna May Deep Levels Ex-
tended and other boom floats. Had the office
notice-board announcements of lOoz. assays
not been followed by a 13dwt. crushing, all
might have been different! Blinds are down
at the Greenfinch, where the sale of the
hitherto-valueless Myrtle lease to the Ex-
tended for £l5OO cash and a sixth interest
was regarded as being as good as completed.
Torrington Blatchford has furnished the
Westralian geological dept, with a report
on the South Yilgarn field. The Great
Victoria, he says, is destined to be one of the
chief low-grade gold-mines of the State; and
about the field generally he writes: “Though
quartz reefs have been its mainstay, and
will in all probability continue to be so for
some time to come, it will not be until the
big low-grade ore deposits which abound in
the locality are worked in a large
and systematic way that mining there
will develop into the important industry it
should be.” These lodes Blatchford con-
siders worthy of more attention and capital
expenditure.
* * * »
Pumps and rails have been removed from
the bottom workings of the Lake View and
Oroya’s Queen of the Hills mine, Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), and it is doubtful if the
show will ever be worked by a co. again.
There is some talk of tributors, but with
nothing much to start on and a freak for-
mation ahead prospects are not bright.
Y Water, Emmaville (N.S.W.), has in
nine years washed up 19254 tins of oxide
from 3,282,000 cub. yards of drift, which
works out at 1.3141 b. per cub. yard. The
best ground having gone, Moline scrapped the
old plant, and now the co. is equipped with
a modern outfit with which it will face the
job of earning profits out of the 3,728,000
cub. yards still available in the lease. This
dirt averages about 0.901 b. oxide per cub.
yard, so that cheap costs and a high price
for tin are necessary to produce profits. On
January 31, against debts of £4OOO, the
co. could show sundry debtors and tin on
hand up to £5475, while stores and fuel
represent an additional £6300.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation will increase
its capital from £962,500 to £1,050,000, in
order to buy out the Central Zinc Co. After
the Ashcroft electrolytic process failed on
account of excessive costs, and when the
subsequent attempt to smelt zinc concentrates
in the old way at Cockle Creek broke down
for the same reason, the Sulphide Corpora-
tion promoted this Central Zinc Co., guar-
anteeing it interest for 10 years. The works
were built in Durham. But the English
experiment hasn’t been much more success-
ful than the Australian, chiefly because the
British preferred to buy foreign goods and
thus employ Germans and Belgians rather
than Englishmen if it meant a saving of
a day, or often if it meant no saving at all.
The co. has never paid a div, which the Sul-
phide Corporation hasn’t directly provided;
and as the 10 years are close up now and
the Sulphide Corporation can get the money,
it is reckoned a fair thing to make a deal.
The shameless White Crystal, of Ardlethan
and Ballarat, the other day issued a report.
The chairman made some remarks on the
percentage of wolfram and the purchase of a
calcining plant, and then the meeting put up
a motion to reduce directors’ fees from £6OO
to £3OO a year. The vendor crowd was too
strong and defeated it, but the Board subse-
quently met and decided to make the reduc-
tion —and probably achieved heart disease
from the shock of its own munificence. The
prospectus of this co. still stands as the most
impudent issued in Australia in this century,
and the law which permits such things to go
to the public has no sense of decency.
After C. 11. J. Clayton had examined the
Tasmanian copper mine, Rosebery, for G. C.
Klug, lie sprinted off to Misima to find out
if Gordon Lyon’s syndicate had lobbed on a
winner in the Papuan show. For part of
the time he had Block 10’.s O. B. Ward as a
messmate, and John Brandon also took a
trip to spy out the worth of the St. Aignan’s
block, which is also coveted by Lyon. Clay-
ton’s report on Misima isn’t enthusiastic:
1500 ft. of driving and crosscutting failed to
locate a main concentrated ore-shoot. St.
Aignan’s, next door, is better; it has a
“well-defined formation, proved for 500 ft.,
with regular values.” So for Misima to have
a mining future will depend on what O. B.
Ward can find for Broken Hill Block 10 Co.
in the south lease or on a possible improve-
ment at the St. Aignan block.
A big seam of coal near Mackay and a
lode 45ft. wide near Biggenden carrying zinc
blende and iron pyrites are among the latest
discoveries in Queensland. Government Geol-
ogist Dunstan has advised the prospecting of
this lode by a series of 30 bores.


Heelings
Est 1818:
Copenhagen
/
a s fe w
*heerihg
fBWW
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
PAULINE et CIE
(MILLINERY, ROBES, BLOUSES, Etc.)
ANNOUNCE
Their First Show of Millinery Models for
Autumn and Winter Wear, on and after
Wednesday, Ist March.
3rd Floor, Denison House, George St.
lopp. David Jones).
BEST - ALWAYS.
m
tin /
-v*
fi
Velveteen
every yard is marked with
the letters L-O-U-I-S.
SINCE 1679. SINCE 1679.
HAIG * HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
1
Cream
The only toilet cream containing Icilma
Natural Water. Fragrant, non-greasy,
guaranteed not to grow haiv.
British made.
1/6 per pot everywhere.
Icilma is pronounced Eye-Silma.
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 15. 1916.
My Deal Arini, —
Hospital Friday collectors wore a bleak
air of disappointment during the earlier part
of the day. They were up against a tough
proposition: for nearly tw r o years the call of
the w 7 ar funds had kept citizens toeing the
mark. But as the day wore on the public
took compassion, and finances looked up.
This year’s organisation was w r eak in badges.
“Only ten-shilling badges,” said the alluring
damsel w 7 ho was asked what she had to sell.
Why there were no shilling or half-crown
passports only those responsible can say.
The wonderfully-organised February Carni-
val by the Policeman and his pal the Fire-
man had produced a cheque of £6884 for the
hospitals. This w 7 as manna in a hungry
place, and Denison Miller put it into safe
keeping on Friday to swell the haul made by
the lady pirates.
The passing crowd on Hospital Day w 7 ere
invited to shy a coin into a novel receptacle
—to wit, the open pouch of a mamma-kan-
garoo. Defunct, of course; the real thing
wouldn’t have stood for a second donation
in its vest pocket, no matter how 7 good the
cause.
As the result of a recent promotion at the
Front, young Sturdee, of the Australian
Engineers, becomes a Lieut.-Colonel. I think
lie was a lieutenant wdien the war began.
Since then —he was amongst the first to get
aw r ay—he has passed through the horrors of
Gallipoli unscathed. Promotion has been
swift, as his comrades fell like autumn
leaves. Sturdee is a nephew of the Ad-
miral wdio smashed a German squadron off
the Falklands. Father is a Surgeon-
Colonel, still in the thick of things and
decorated lately for his services to the
wounded.
Young Thesiger, eldest son of ex-Governor
Chelmsford, was wounded a few 7 w 7 eeks ago
in the Mesopotamia muddle.
A Tasmanian girl, Nora, daughter of the
Erskine Parkers, w 7 as married at the old
Guards’ Chapel, London, a few 7 w 7 eeks ago to
Lieut. Francis Eaton, of the Grenadier
Guards. He’s the eldest son of Lord
Cheylesmore.
The Norman Murrays arrived in England
a little while ago. Like many another con-
firmed bachelor before him, the Sydney
yachting man is seeing the world on his
honeymoon.
Mrs. Lempriere, a sister of Melba, is on
the road to recovery after a serious opera-
tion. She has been in a private hospital
at Killara.
Sister Florence Spalding, a Manly girl,
was recently decorated by the King for her
strenuous work in the Dardanelles. She’s
a niece of the Colonel who used to be in
N.S.W. Permanent Artillery. He, by the
way, is one of the very few of our ex-
Defence officers who enjoy a pension, and is
spending his vigorous old age on a Northern
Rivers farmlet.
The Modern Language Association held a
Highbrow reunion in some city tea-rooms the
other evening. The rooms are below 7 the
pavement. But the tramp of hurried citizens
over the leadlights didn’t disturb the com-
pany’s unshaken devotion to irregular verbs.
A little play, “On Cambriole,” was read aloud
by two members of each sex. Carried
away by their dramatic fervor, the
Messieurs frequently lost their way in
the MS. But Our sex, which rarely
loses anything but its peggy-bag, waded
steadily through its task. Demoiselle
Poignon was effective in this struggle.
In the shuffle of offices Dominie Sloman, the
spectacled young man in charge of Sydney
Grammar, was put in the president’s chair.
French is a hobby of his.
Verbrugghen will hand over the Grace
Brothers’ trophies—Conservatorium scholar-
ships and little things of that kind —on
May 19.
At Pambnla, on the South Coast, the local
doctor, John Fitzhardinge, son of an old
legal light, has been measured for khaki.
That gave his xvife a chance to do her bit:
being also a doctor she has taken over
hubby’s duties, and makes no trouble of
midnight calls and long journeys over bumpy
roads.
One of the unexpected pleasures of the
usually-drab Bush Book Club meeting w 7 as
the war-like piping of Gunner Frederick
Pickles. In spite of the saucy name, the
Queenslander is not related to the aviator
with the same label. The affair took place
at Government House, and the small soldier
with the big voice had to repeat his songs to
satisfy the Strickland lady’s desire for more.
Captain Charvin, hitherto chiefly known
as the admiring husband of pianist Yvonne
Leverrier, has blossomed forth afresh. The
recent French conversation evening—they’re
weekly affairs —was starred by the big
sailorman’s address on Moli&re. Those
whose French was up to the occasion en-
joyed it. And those who didn’t understand
it contrived to look as wise as those who did.
Fate plays some odd tricks. On the night
the Little Theatre was shut up a big party
from Admiralty House had arranged to be
present. Getting wind of this the usual
crowd hurried along, to find the door locked.
A Blue Mountaineer remarks that with
the passing of Dr. Maclntyre Sinclair’s
sanatorium at Wentworth Falls to the
hands of the Red Cross Society, £ll,OOO
goes in a good cause. The new owners take
over the administration in three weeks’ time,
and are immediately to set about making
the necessary alterations to accommodate 100
returned soldiers suffering from pulmonary
troubles. Ultimately the institution is to
have room for the treatment of 500 sol-
diers. This answers a very necessary pro-
blem for N. S. Wales, as the Queen Victoria
Sanatorium, the only Government institu-
tion providing space for Anzacs, has already
installed 10, and cannot go beyond 55.
Mrs. Hector Wilshire counted up £49
from her recent little show in St. James’s
Hall. For the patriotic hat, of course.
By the Morea on Monday the J. B. Don-
kins landed back with the family luggage
after a six-months’ dip into the danger zone.
Squatter Donkin did some rouseabout work
in Egypt, until his helpmate’s health failed.
Eldest son Gordon, who ran the Lake Cowal
sheep-walk, then exchanged home comforts
for a uniform, which made the chief’s return
more necessary than ever.
Lieut. Hamer and his wife —she used to
be a Miss Hall, of North Sydney—returned
in the Osterley. He’s on sick leave after
active service with the A.S.C. in Franco.
They were on the Sussex when it was tor-
pedoed and saw indescribable scenes of hor-
ror. “Always carry your own lifebelt,” is
a safe motto in these troubled days. When
Mrs. Hamer tried to tie on the ship’s life-
saver all the tapes c.ame off. They then got
into a lifeboat, but it had a hole in the bot-
tom. The A.S.C. man’s finger just fitted
the deadly aperture, so he kept it there till
they were rescued. Fingers were made
before forks, and they’re useful things on all
sorts of occasions.
An Australian just back from England had
a glimpse of Paris on her way to catch the
steamer at Toulon. She says it’s a city of
black crepe veils and deep mourning, so far
as its womenkind go. Otherwise the life
of Paris had swung back to something very
like normal, owing to the French belief at
the time that the enemy had been badly
beaten at Verdun. Frenchwomen, always
fond of very deep mourning, wear black
veils almost to the hem of their skirts,
v T hether the departed be husband, father,
brother or other relative.
This week I send
you a little pic-
ture of Mrs. For-
rest, the most in-
dustrious writer of
rhymes in Austra-
lia. Some of it is
poetry—an amaz-
ing amount of it,
considering that
every morning she
turns up at her
little office in Bris-
bane and says to
her trusty type-
writer, “Now, bat-
tered old friend,
what string shall we
thread our pearls
<m to-day?” Back
in the dawn of
Australian history
there was, at Parramatta, a school-
master named Mills, who had a large family
and the reputation of being able to save
sixpence better than most people; and that
was how Mrs. Forrest (nee Mills) came to
the world to cheer us with her color rhap-
sodies.
An old friend writes a piece about an
Australian’s pictures:—
The gospel of the gum-forest with sheep in its
shadows and heat brooding above on wide, golden
wings—this is the gospel according to Lister
Lister, and pictured on the walls of Anthony Hor-
derns’ gallery. Lister is strong on painted air, and
his gums live in holy families. Hot noons and
hushed, electric evenings, nature swooning or dream-
ing—these things appeal to him, and he conveys the
appeal most subtly. He loves the gum, and if love
begets love maybe the trees help the painter to paint
themselves so that each shall have a separate eucalypt-
ality! What an advantage to a painter to have the
vision of old Swedenborg, who saw the spirit of a
pine standing by its trunk !
Folk, even artists, are apt to jeer, though, if some-
one “sees things.” I was once in the long ago look-
ing at a picture with Julian Ashton. I quite forget
its theme, but it must have warranted the quotation
of a verse from William Watson to a lark: —
Thy spirit knows not bounds nor bars,
On thee no shreds of thraldom hang;
Not more enlarged the morning stars
Their great Te Deum sang.
But I am fettered to the sod,
And but forget my bonds an hour;
In amplitude of dreams a god—
A slave in dearth of power.
“Ugh,” grunted Ashton, “any really sane bird would
reply, if he could speak, ‘Stow that guff, my girl,
and gimme a worm.’ ”
But to return to our Listers. No. 1, a huge canvas
in oils, “The Winding Molonglo,” shows a low range
marking the distance in soft, blotchy purple, a wide
plain through which the Molonglo elbows rather
than winds, in blue-grey-green peace, under a sky
just a tone deeper, while the smoke of two small
fires rises like incense in the still atmosphere. Two
noble warrior gums and a number of young recruits
of the same family inhabit the foreground, and
certain magpies investigate the knotted toes of the
old couple. It is a sympathetic and truly Aus-
tralian picture, and if Mr. Lister Lister himself
poured the water into the creek-bed previous to
painting it, it only proves there was a waterhole
somewhere in the Federal capital site.
“The Coast at Newport,” in pastel tones; “Sand
Dunes at Dec Why” ; and the “Three Gulls” are
charming bits of coast scenery.
Fifty-one pictures there are in all, and some carry
the satisfactory red seal of sale.
James Edmond,
who takes his ease
at Coogee after his
strenuous years as
our Bulletin
chief, had a charac-
teristic letter from
11. G. Wells the
other day. “There
is,” said Wells, “a
book in my house
called ‘A Journal-
ist and Two Bears,’
which has your
name on the title
page and a portrait
—quite a frank
one. I have just
been reading it
with extreme de-
light. I don’t know
whether I like the
fun best or the imagination. Both in their
way are perfect. It is the book for
wounded Tommies, which leads to the ques-
tion whether it is to be got over here. If
it isn’t published here in an easily accessible
form it ought to be. It’s your duty to your
country,” etc., etc. To which James
Edmond, the kindliest man who ever spitted
a politician or any other sham, replied
characteristically, too. Wells, going into
business details, said the matter of a shilling
edition could be arranged with any leading
publisher in a week. “My very brilliant
friend,” said Edmond, “you can have ‘A
Journalist and Two Bears.’ Publish it as
you will. I give you the rights to it for all
countries except my own Australia. What
profit there is in it devote to those patriotic
funds in which you are interested.” So
Tommy is likely to score two ways; and I
give you a very late picture of the big man
who made the generous offer.
Mrs. John Hughes and her suite of two
daughters, a son and a nephew, landed in
Britain just in time to get the news that
her sons (or their brothers, or cousins, as
the case may be) had been put out of action
in France. The two boys, Bryan and Geof-
frey, support subaltern’s rank in the Dub-
lin Fusiliers. One received a bullet in the
neck, the other a slash from a sword, which
seems to hint that an enemy wasn’t far
away.
Cupid scored a hit the other day when
Marjorie Williamson, the late J.C.W.’s eld-
est, promised to transfer her heart and
hand at some future date into the keep-
ing of Wallace Bridge, son of Clarence, of
the old Quay-side wool-broking family. In
peace-time Wallace is in wool; now in war
he is in khaki. Mistress Marjorie has just
returned to Sydney from the L T .S.A., to
come of age and take on the burden of her
material affairs —which are weighty affairs,
believe me.
Miss M. M. Doyle, who died at Hornsby
the other day, was the only sister of Mrs. S.
Kearney, of Orange. The Doyles’ cousin
Mary married a son of Lord Ross, of tele-
scope fame, in the years that are dust. On
the distaff side they were related to the sisters
Jane and Anna Maria Porter, who wrote
“The Scottish Chieftain” and “The Hun-
garian Brothers,” literature that pleased a
former generation.
Mrs. Scott Fletcher, wife of the chief of
the new Wesley College, is said to be “a
dear.” The word comes from Brisbane,
where the lady has been a great pal of vari-
ous scribblers. The Fletchers have been
climbing Blue Mountain tracks while the
plumber and gasfitter put their hand and
seal on the new college.
Dr. and Mrs. Steer Bowker’s only son has
been in the firing-line in France since las
July. lie still reports “all’s well.’’ 1
The will of the late Mrs. Sophia Deas-
lhomson has been proved at £H« 1)00 a
long list of legacies takes effect alter the
death of her husband—the stout little gentle
man who survives the gentle Sophia.
One recent night Elsie Borthwick Was
paraded by Eieut.-Colonel Rourke, 0 f the
13th Battalion, at Christ Church, Kiama and
was taken in charge by Lieut. Gordon
Mitchell, a damaged member of the original
battalion. Sister Maude and Lieut S p
Cox aided and abetted, whilst Colonel Miller
and Major McFarlane, of the staff" also
looked in and reported favorably.
The first “Kiddies’ Exhibition” ever held
in Sydney holds the Town Hall on May is
19 and 20. It’s not a baby show, but -i
special parade of what N. S. Wales is doing
for the future warrior and his infant sister.
The arrival of a Zeppelin bomb at your
hotel is not to be easily forgotten. Carrie
Lanceley, the North Sydney soprano, just
home, was chatting to some of the Sydney
Toohey family at their mutual hotel in' Lon-
don. It was late in the evening—the hour
when Zeps go round in search of prey.
When the crash came, Carrie, who thought
the hotel was falling, fled upstairs to collect
her father and mother. Father had gone
out on to the roof to have a good look at
the fireworks, which were falling in adjacent
garden plots. But she arrested mother and
took her to the basement till the uproar was
over. It wasn’t an experience the Sydney
folks want to go through again this side of
Anywhere.
The concert in aid of the Voluntary
Workers’ Association happens on June lj
in the Town Hall. Oswald Anderson is
lion, manager.
The Old Gold and Silver Fund still wants
your old teeth —those that were wont to lie
in a tumbler of water o’ nights—or any
other superfluous knick-knacks. Take them
to 62 Hunter-street, and no rude questions
will be asked.
A Sydneysider just back from Melbourne
remarks that Miss Collins Street has to be
recognised by the shape of her nose. High
ruffles, almost Elizabethan in size, disguise
the lower part of her face. But life being,
as Whyte Melville said, very much like a
polka, what you gain in going forward you
lose in turning round, Miss Toorak puts
material on at her cheek-bone and cuts it off
at her shins.
Bertie Allan, son of Percy, better known
as “Paddy,” has just passed an officers’ exam,
in a scintillating fashion. He’s only 22, so
the A.I.F. won’t make him a subaltern. lie
can’t wait, either; so after using his brains
to drill the other fellow for some months, he
goes to the Front shortly. His khaki pals
gave him an illuminated address and other
trophies of farewell. Paddy Allan pere, of
the Engineers’ Department, was largely re-
sponsible for the nuts and bolts in Pyrmont
Bridge.
Janet, eldest treasure of John Fell, is
engaged to Captain Swallow. They both
belong to leafy North wood, on the winding
Lane Cove River. He was early in the
fray, was lately invalided home, and now
goes back for a second bang at the foe.
Grace Palotta adorns the Indian summer of
our landscape. Especially that part of the
land that ’scapes between Macleay-street,
where she sleeps, and the T. and G. Build-
ings, where she works, in Elizabeth-street.
The workshop is a really fine scheme of sen-
suous coloring: black and violet and brown
and gold and dull pink and drowsy blue. And
against this the latest in hats and furs and
neckwear and gowns. Getting up at six
and going to bed at nine, and walking miles
and miles and working and drinking milk till
she daren’t look a calf in the face, has given
back all the beauty for which Grace was
famed. But she won’t admit she has said
good-bye to the stage. Only her contract
with the Hat Goddesses stopped her taking
on a tour of China. You may remember
Palotta’s devoted friend, Miss Pearl Faith-
full, now Lady Dilke. The faithfulness-
remains, for she writes quite 52 times a year.
Concert companies for patriotic purposes
are not so well organised in London as they
appear to be in Australia, a returned traveller
says. A little clique in the big city actually
gets its fees—sometimes up to £10 —for every
appearance, and does well out of the business
of entertaining wounded soldiers; but the
poorer singers, without influence, get out-of-
pocket expenses at best. How poor the
rank and file of the profession is in England
just now Australians can’t realise.
Y&urs affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS L™
VICE.REGAL
JEWELLERS
PRESENTS FOR SOLDIERS.
The Company has a large and comprehensive
stock of articles suitable for the above purpose,
and shall be pleased to forward a selection on
approval if desired.
U'JC.
tm
1,. -u
Silver Tinder or
Cigarette Lighter,
»/-
Plain Silver Indelible Pencil, with Receptacle at
end for Holding: Refills,
14/-
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT
ALLOWED ON ALL CASH TRANSACTIONS,
ORDERS RV MAIL RECEIVE
CAREFUL AND PROMPT ATTENTION.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; 116-118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
HARDY BROS. (SYDNEY and BRISBANE) LTD., 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
NO MATTER WHAT YOUR BUSINESS IS
A CAMERA
WILL HELP YOU.
Think of the uses of a Camera to the Artist, Architect,
Engineer, Surveyor, Estate Agent, Manufacturer and the
Man on the Land. And, in addition to the business value
of a Camera, there is always the added joy of a Camera in the
home.
This is the Camera to Suit all Requirements.
The BRITISH-MADE
FOLDING KLITO
The Folding Klito has many advantages, but its chief
attraction is its adaptability for use on a stand or as a hand
Camera. „ , ...
The “S.L.” Model illustrated is fitted with one of the
highest-grade anastigmat lenses, i.c.. the Coolte-Luxor, and a
shutter allowing variable speeds. . .
The Camera is very strongly made, and will stand hard
work, and, above all, IT IS SIMPLE TO FSE.
The Book of Instructions supplied with each Camera will
be all that is necessary for the beginner—but, furthermore, we
teach every client photography free.
The Folding Klito, S.L. Model, M-1»1. size complete—
£s/12/0
The Folding Klito, S.E. Model, Postcard size. , £B/2/0
Our new Catalogue of Cameras includes particulars of 100
Models. Send for one now.
II?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z.
. i
V 3 /'
!
u ; uj 5
iant^y
l? y ust-Proof
771 EAR a
W Warner's
Corset and
your figure
will be cor-
rect, your
gowns will
look their best,
and you will
feel satisfied.
jjamerSKust-T^oofCorsets
Not only the
shape of a
Warner style
is guaranteed,
but its com-
fortable fit-
ting and its
wearing
qualities.
Guaranteed not to
rust, break or tear.
«?v.
m* s
>•
m
[2
T/IE WORLDS STORY
IN STORY,SONG frART.
Books for the Man Out-Back
THE man who lives away back o’ beyond has. this advantage over the city fellow, that
he can stop to think. He lives a saner life. He hasn’t a multitude of petty interests to
cope with between breakfast and dinner. He can turn the big things over in his mind.
But when there is nothing for him to bite at he mopes like a sick sheep.
Now, if he had a friend who had gone into every
corner of the earth seen everything, done every-
thing, known everybody and if this friend could
be induced to relate his experiences whenever
he was asked —what a difference it would make
in the life of that man.
But suppose instead of turning to one man,
he could turn to 600 of the world’s great
story-tellers, authors, adventurers, historians,
dramatists and poets, whenever he liked, his
life would become a veritable fairyland,
filled with people and places and events,
real and living and vital. He can do thi*
and do it whenever he wishe*. “ The
World’s Story” has been published
for the use of just such a man.
THE WORLD’S STORY consists
of fourteen handsome volumes
of History, Travel, Biography,
Description, Drama and Anec-
dote, in which the whole
past of the world cus-
toms, religions, wars,
revolutions, adventures
—is vividly portrayed
by the world’s
greatest writers.
fOm
m
m
mm
05
wmj
m
VS
" V '^P'-r
5:... 'V-'
; -.“ **
mm
The man who
owns “The World’s
Story” is indepen-
dent and happy-
such a man when
he wants amusement
will simply open a vol-
ume of THE WORLD’S
STORY, and. whether it
was the building of the Pyra-
mids, the gardens of Babylon,
the Wars of the Roses, the
Italian Renaissance, the Ameri-
can Independence War, Water-
loo. or Burke and Wills’ Ex-
pedition, he will have it
right to hand: a good rattling
account by an authority, and all
hot and vivid from the life.
That is the idea of this scheme: to
present the various scenes from
eye-witness accounts or from the
classic page of a great writer who
has re-created the scenes for us and
for all time. And each instalment follows
naturally from its predecessor.
We haven’t much room to talk here, but if .
you will fill and forward us the coupon at foot
we’ll gladly mail you a 48-page Illustrated Booklet Free.
Our system is to send on the books by post. Wherever
this magazine goes THE WORLD’S STORY will follow
by post. The fourteen volumes will be delivered right
into your hands on an initial payment of 8/-.
Write us for. particulars. You will be under no
obligation.
The Standard Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.
100 Flinders St., MELBOURNE; 19 Hunter St., SYDNEY;
Franklin St., ADELAIDE; and at Brisbane, Hobart and London
To Tie
STANDARD
PUBLISHING Co.
Ptjr. Ltd..
100 Flinders St., Melb.
Please send me. free of
charge, your 43-page Illus-
trated Pamphlet giving full par-
ticulars of THE WORLD'S STORY
and of your Special Terms of Sale.
1 understand there Is no obligation to
purchase.
Nam c
[Send this form ora potted n>enr.nni«-


A Burberry at 901-
For years the ‘"Burberry” Raincoat' has been the
Standard of its class British people. Its quality
is magnificent, and its st, v le distinctive and modern. A
man clad in a “Burberry” > not only sure of remaining
dry in a deluge, but appears comfortably and classically
clothed.
Farmer’s stock a most useful “Burberry” for the
Australian climate, at 90/-. It is in weight, allows
of healthy ventilation, and remains serviceable for years.
Others up to 7 guineas.
Carriage Paid to any Australian Address.
Pitt, Market
and
George Streets,
i m
11
'T2
m
7/
w
tfj.*
im
W V’A
Gage Hats
are the Correct Expression of Good Style.
fIdWMIIISIFIL
»«§§ mm ns
The Marvellous Contrivance
that makes it possible to dis-
pense with buttons, hooks, and
eyes and press-studs in men’s and
women’s garments. One simple
movement and the garment lS
opened or closed.
The World has been Wait-
ing for the Hookless
Fastener.
It saves time, trouble and tern
per. Is fixed in a few minutes,
and is indestructible.
Ask to see it at your draper s
or tailor’s.
The Hookless Fastener Co.
Elizabeth House, (A«* ralaB,a >>
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Alelbourne, Alay 15, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Friday before last was a great afternoon
for the women of the Overseas Club. The
rooms were decorated with the new “Sir
Arthur Stanley” carnation —a compliment
no doubt to his Ex. for being partly re-
sponsible for the Event. The women, you
see, were met together to congratulate Lady
Stanley on being the mother of an Austra-
lian baby boy, and Alayoress Hennessy
presented her on their behalf with the ducki-
est miniature cradle. It was filled with vio-
lets and autumn leaves, and the red, white
and blue streamers were inscribed in gold:
“A Link of Empire”—the link being Baby,
of course. Also a programme prettily deco-
rated by Esther Paterson was thrown in
with the cradle. Lady Stanley made a neat
speech of thanks. She said that Lord Shef-
field had asked her to bring home some
specimens of Australian animal life, and
she thought nothing zoological would be so
much appreciated as an Australian baby.
The refreshments included music and sing-
ing. Alabel Alattingley warbled, and Betty
Paterson took a voice in the proceedings.
The men on the programme were Osmond
Smith and Cahill, of the Dandies. The one
thing wanting to complete the happiness
of the women on this domestic occasion was
the attendance of His Super-Excellency the
Baby.
G.-G. Alunro Ferguson and State Ex.
Alacartney took some water with nothing in
it at the opening of the Tasmanian hydro-
electric scheme. Alacartney was turning
the handle to let the water into the pipe-
line, and the Commonwealth Ex. was close
handy. But the water went the wrong way,
blew a middle-sized geyser through a safety'
valve, and caught them both nicely.
The Arts and Crafts perpetrated a weav-
ing demonstration on Friday last at
the new rooms, and Governor Stanley
and his lady were called in to take an intel-
ligent interest in it. Prof. Spencer led them
round. Her Ex., in a small waist, fur-edged
mole ninon and frivolous short skirts,
peered through the historic tortoise-shell
lorgnettes, and was entranced every time she
was told things.
AMctoria has just found that it breathes
the same air as a real, live Lord. The
shrinking aristocrat is Lord Fitzgerald, of
the Duke of Leinster’s family, and he lives
in rural simplicity at Riddell, about 20
miles from Alelbourne. A notice in the
paper the other day told how his nephew,
another Lord Fitz., heir to the dukedom, had
been killed in France.
Lieut. Ernest Clarke, better known as
E.E.D., who helps Rupert with his race-
horses and is a son of Victoria’s late baronet
Bill, is now in the firing-line, or near it. Old
William had his own ideas as to Australia’s
necessities and started the Rupertswood
Battery as a concrete example of the sort of
thing required. Ernest, by the way, is heir
to the Clarke baronetcy.
The late Colonel Umplielby’s daughter
Wilga, back from Red Crossing in Egypt
and England with her husband, Johnny
Henley-on-Yarra Lang, had a hot, dusty, in-
teresting time in Egypt and a cold, smoky,
interesting time in England. It is a coinci-
dence that, on Johnny’s return, an agitation
should start for the revival of the regatta.
Of course, there really isn’t much against
the holding of the afternoon-and-evening
jostle, so long as the actual boat-racing is
confined to soldiers and schoolboys. And
with all the proceeds going into the hat
there should be a sizeable contribution to
war funds.
Alelba is telling her friends of an interest-
ing letter from Captain Oswald AYatt, the
Sydneysider who is with the French Flying
Corps. A recent singer who tenored at his
mess proved to be Sergeant Dudon Contey,
who sang in New York with Alelba. He had
been in the trenches since the fii’st week in
August, 1914. Watt says that all the older
aeroplanes in the French Army were given
by public subscription, and each one carried
the name of the town that donated it. The cus-
tom has never died out, and it is, in fact,
encouraged, as it gives a personal interest in
the machine to its pilot and two mechanics.
Watt, being a patriotic Australian, placed
on his machine two kangaroos and the motto
“Advance Australia,” as he is the only Aus-
tralian in the French service. He is apply-
ing now for a transfer to the Australian
Corps, Air Section, and hopes to receive an
appointment. Finally he trails off to The
Bulletin, “which comes along every week,
and somehow the old pink cover seems to
brighten things up, as one gets terribly lonely
sometimes in a foreign country.”
Solicitor Fred Ivrcrouse, Essie Perrin’s
husband, has just been converted into a cap-
tain. He now fights with the Scottish Horse
under the Alarquis of Tullibardine, with
whom he galloped into despatches in the Boer
V >r-
Lawyer Gladys Taylor (after office hours
she’s Airs. Reginald Harries) is busy study-
ing sailing-lists and fashion-plates. fehe
leaves to join her soldier-husband at a very
early date. He also dispensed law before he
put on khaki.
Nurse Ethel Woodward has gone back to
work alongside sisters Alay and Aladge in
a London hospital. She came out to see
the Atkinson will case through ; but know-
ing the slow ways of the Law, she didn’t
wait for the verdict.
It this war all sorts of deep-laid plans go
into the stockpot. For instance, consider
what happened to Alajor Stanley Argyle’s
beautiful X-ray outfit, which was to travel
all over the place, locating a dozen bullets
here, exposing an embedded best-girl’s locket
there, and flitting over to the other end of
the battle-line to work even more moving
wonders. When the vehicle reached Egypt
the callous authorities took the concern off
its wheels and put it prosaically on solid
ground, while the chassis was fitted up as a
transport-vehicle to cart potatoes to the
troops, or some such sordid matter.
All good Scotchbyterians are handing in
their congratulations to Dr. Alarshall, of
Scots’ Church. His son, Lieut. Norman, has
just been handed a military cross and an
extra star for turning the other boot to the
enemy at Gallipoli.
Airs. Fitzgerald-Aloore, whom Hawthorn
remembers as Kathleen Underwood, a
brunette daughter of shipper John Sander-
son Underwood, is back home under the
parental roof-tree on a visit. The Captain-
husband belongs to an Indian regiment,
and was wounded in France. Subsequently
he was sent back to India on light duty.
Kathleen will hurry back to his side at the
end of the hot season.
THE LATE MR. AND MRS. ALF VINCENT.
Alf Vincent’s
pretty little widow
didn’t long survive
the tragedy of her
husband’s death.
Last week she
went into a pri-
vate hospital to
undergo a long-de-
ferred operation,
which necessitated
another —and after
the second she died.
She was on the
verge of her 24th
birthday. The ill-
fated couple -were
married at old St.
James’s Church
about three years
ago, and a ’ two-
year-old daughter
is left to the care
of her mother’s
people.
Adelaide begins with the weather: —
Our summers have an unpleasant way of coming;
back for an encore verse—and that’s what happened
on Cup day—to the confusion of the women who had
no choice between old summer garments and heavy
new tailor-mades and furs. Khaki was the keynote
of the whole color scheme.
The announcement that there is to be a Red Cross
hospital here, equipped and maintained by the
Crossers and staffed chiefly by volunteers, has brought
added work to the society, and, incidentally, to Lady
Galway. The hospital is to be at Woodville.
The G.-G.’s visit and the Premiers’ Conference have
provided an excuse for a mayoral reception, which
is billed for May 25 in the Exhibition Building. It
will be the first official day-out we have had since
the G.-G.’s last visit about eight months ago. That’s
the pace our merry-go-round travels at!
The Lutheran pastor at Loxton, who was lately
fined £1 and costs for being on a lady’s veran-
dah while she was retiring for the night, has
scored a legal victory. The. exact charge was that
he was there with intent-to steal goods and chattels,
and the Supreme Court, on appeal, found that there
were no facts to justify that suggestion. As for any
other suggestion, the pastor’s counsel remarked
that “he had a complete answer, which would be
given at a later time and in another court.”
Adelaide G.P.0., which the city was very proud
of when it was built, half a century back, is con-
demned now as “hopeless.” The different branches
are scattered anyhow, and Webster, P.M.G., abso-
lutely refuses to put on the proposed third storey
until he can work out a scheme to re-design the
whole thing “in such a way as to comply with
modern business conditions.”
Airs. Johnstone (the Tottie Greig of years
ago who married and settled in England)
has come back to Australia with hubby to
see her sick mother. ‘This time they took the
back track across Uncle Wilson’s lot to
escape possible submarines. Airs. Johnstone
is sister to mummer Bob Greig. Another
sister, Edith, was the shining light in the
amateur theatrical world of the ’Bo’s. We
won’t go back any further.
The Billie Alcßeath bridal couple are
back again after honeymoon-tripping
through Japan. He is a son of Softgoods
Alcßeath, and his golden-haired bride was
Minnie Dawson, one of the prettiest gold-
and-pink girls stocked in Melbourne for sev-
eral seasons. A glittering home in Orrong-
road, Toorak, has now received them.
The recent race for “head of the river”
honors ended the devoted yelling of solicitor
Ross-Soden, who for weeks past has been
bicycling along the banks megaphoning
orders, threats and expostulations to the
solemn young oarsmen of Melbourne Gram-
mar. In his less public moments Ross-
Soden warned them of the deadly effects
of cream puffs. They wanted a coach,
and he filled the gap so well that they even-
tually triumphed over Geelong Grammar.
The hero, who wears a reject badge under-
neath his waistcoat, was one of the Austra-
lian crew which beat England's crack crew,
the Leander, on the Thames, and later on
made an unsuccessful try for Olympian
laurels at Stockholm.
On Tuesday evening last week Bert
Austen fed the Grammar School crew, with
the headmaster and coach Ross-Soden, at a
city cafe. Afterwards the whole party was
taxied to Her Majesty’s and “So-Long,
Letty,” and the obliging mummers dragged in
references to the boys’ great victory. The
chorus girls, too, sported blue garters; and,
before the frivolling was over two principals
had put on Grammar caps tossed up from
the front of the house.
Mrs. Rosina Carandini Palmer broke the
silence of a decade the other afternoon by
singing in public for the Y.M.C.A.’s war
fund. The resurrection happened at the
Marcel Conrans’ rural crib at Woodend.
where a little sale of farm products and
patriotic pincushions was sanctified by the
presence of various money-bagged dwellers
from the expensive heights of Mount Mace-
don. It made the 10,000 th time Mrs.
Palmer had gratuitously Annie Lauried in a
good cause.
The idle rich received a shocking bad advt.
a t Malvern the other morning. In High-
street, which is worn to the bone by motor-
ists, there was a crash and a smash and a
ye ll and the hurrying of feet. \n old man
riding a push-bike had been run down by a
motor-car carrying a pair of heavyweight
females, and lay pinned under the near front
wheel. Most of the hurrying feet were worn
by rmrsegirls or children ; but inside two or
three minutes enough men were collected to
push the chariot off the victim. It was a
busy, hustling tragic two or three minutes —
an( j throughout the proceedings the goddesses
j n car sa £ an d merely looked annoyed,
Luckily for the old fellow underneath, the
f a t freight was supported by his leg instead
Q f ne ck
mi, „ 1 - , - ... r „
lhe patriotic matinde performance of
V,, • ~ A . ~
more than filled the
ho " * °a Tu'
xTonnoif “ °Pbosite boxes, and the
S tbf nLlo KU T . VI Tf 6
ll % M ? dd ? n ™ dhlS
T t ‘V *e stalls.. Lestey Madden,
Forlnf' K > gh % ***?? n
S* aUd m v Spit ? of , a . bad ? old
®? d IZ Z f'’, Wh ° 'V Pl °T*
th ® b ° Ul l UetS
d " e 6 aid at ber sboe ' tlpS ’
Mrs. Oscar Levy’s little affair at the
Austral Salon last Thursday turned out
t° be a really magnificent Pink Tea
in the cats-as-cats-can style. The old
hall in Flinders-lane simply swarmed with
men an d women—three men and about 500
women. Mayoress Hennessy took a leading
i? th e uproar. Mrs. Izzy Moss, of the
A.W.N.L., made a strictly non-political, some-
what breathless oration on war-comforts and
soldiers’ underwear. Amy Castles listened
*° mos t of the musical programme with
geotle forbearance. Sylvia-Little Webb, who
was 1° take part with her bridegroom in a
playlet of her own invention, got the wibbly-
wabbles at the last moment and took refuge
m the china-closet until the danger was
P as t- Mrs. John Sanderson mildly cooed
about a wood pigeon. Nineteen assorted
misses wrestled with the audience for a
right-of-way with their tea-trays; and the
. same 19 almost wept into their empties
when the suppiy of cochinealed cakes
out, in a terribly unexpected way W
before the back-seaters had had a chance at
the basket. _ Altogether it was a hot, splen-
did, noisy, joyous tea-wrangle, with a fat
stockingful of florins for the soldiers Q
result of the collection.
The painful but lucrative “queen of the car-
nival” device is being engineered in Mel
bourne to gather shekels for St. Vincent’s
Hospital. This particular affair is on a veri-
lofty plane, the competing “queens” thus far
nominated being the pluperfectly pl um Les
ley Madden, Melba, Defence Minister
Pearce’s little Dorothy, Prof. Harry Allen's
lady, solicitor Arthur Woolcott’s missus
(she holds the record as a Button Dav
organiser), Agnes Flannery, a bush represen.
tative (“Queen of the Harvest”), the respec-
tive wives of Frank Hyett and ironworker
Claude Gibbons. Mrs. Knowles (gumleaf-
poetess Marion Miller), Gertrude Rennie (of
the Mia Mia), Mrs. Quinnell (she’s the
sedate secretary of the Austral Salon), and
the “Queen of the Federated Bookmakers”
who is Mrs. Mike Healy. It is a dreadful
business, of course; but the list indicates
that it will be worth a mint of money to the
hospital.
Doris Madden gave her piano-recital at
the East Melbourne Conservatorium, with
the Victorian Artists’ canvas display as a
setting, on May 11. It was the loftiest of
High Art, with just the correct number of
refined musical souls collected by invitation.
Ernest (Melba) Mitchell was to have sung
Massenet, Cesar Franck and other masters,
but managed to be ill at the last minute, so
Doris gave a bit more piano to fill up. She
was in classic folds of lace and ripe apricot
silk —a frock that was designed by Melba
when she had Doris closely tucked under her
kindly wing. Director Fritz Hart kept well
in evidence, making the announcements and
working the switch of the electrics—which
were restfully “off” during the recitals except
for one green globe over the piano.
Ruth Ladd, who played second piano, is a
fresh-looking flapper with a musical future
yawning ahead of her. She is a pupil of
Doris Madden’s, and collected admirers in
handfuls when she played at the antique
furniture show at Government House. The
lucky youngster also has a voice which
Melba is overseeing.
Among the soulful listeners in the dim
dusk was Mrs. Ernest Scott (Emily Dyason),
garbed in the claret-plush cloak which she
had wrapped herself in for her own piano
effort at the Austral Salon during the after-
noon. On June 19 she threatens to give a
concert of her own at the Melba Ilall. It
will be for the usual Red Cross.
The ATctorian Artists’ Society, -which per-
sists in flourishing in spite of individual dis-
plays at the Athenaeum Hall, opened its
annual exhibition at the Galleries on Eastern
Hill t’other Tuesday, with Governor Stanley
to do the usual incantations. His Ex.
took the job seriously. Garbed in his
light-grey costume (now getting on the tight
side, thanks to Australian meat) he "did”
the whole show carefully with her Ex., who
was all champagne draperies, sables and girl-
ishness. When he hadn’t the right exclama-
tion about him, she supplied it, and there
were times when they sprang on the right in-
terjection together. When the time came he
threw off a large, solemn speech. It was
all about Modern Art and Gothic Trends and
how we must not be too hard upon struggling
originality, but must bear with it like a poor
relation.
The Galleries wer° full of the best art
dabblers procurable these times. At inter-
vals they 7 started pocket riots about Bernard
Hall’s latest adventures in paint. He
has committed three things this year, two
of them being figure studies. I saw one
Toorak mamma driving her offspring before
her with clubbed umbrella. The “Color
Chord” is a chilly view of a woman in a
brick-colored hairband washing her ankle,
against a background of green and purple.
The “Suicide” looks as though it died of star-
vation ; some critics say its drawing is fault-
less—others merely ask: “Why draw
it?” The third canvas, “The Tango
Girl,” has convulsed the entire Phili-
stines, because her neck is of the
genuine swan type. Some of the best
work shown is by women. Violet Teague
hangs a life-size portrait of her brother the
Captain, and another of Dr. Alleyne Cook.
Jo Sweatman’s “Rambler on the Open Road,
some of Dora Wilson’s head studies, and
Mrs. Muntz-Adams’s efforts are all worth
while; so are the miniatures of Mrs. Ada
Whiting and Bernice Edwell. who lately mini-
atured Governor Stanley’s small daughter
Pamela.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820—-
-.till going strong
w
s
»/
OS
V Hi I,l*
&
rz
\
vV-s
m
€
\
m
s
$%
\V
£
V
N
■&
\
m
x
XV
w
m
x
Km
m
m
rpr*
W
iW
//
t
S
V
s 5
J! /
VtUMUtu
TPsF!
nKSStfJ*
tefrS x /
S\
/
St
. • -»
' ' w>
Or/, Jr/
i&o^/
<?*u
/
/
Owner (excitedly to chauffeur): “Run to the nearest Inn and fetch me some whiskv ! ”
Victim (opening his eyes, more frightened than hurt)- “‘Johnnie Walker’—in non-rkfillable bottle, please!”
The famous non-refillable bottle ensures the original “Johnnie Walker ” quality. Another great
point in favour of “Johnnie Walker is that its quality is safeguarded by enormous reserve
stocks, sufficient to meet the most optimistic possibilities of increased demand.
Avery drop of “ Johnnie Walker " Red Label in a non-refillable bottle is over 10 years old.
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.


For all Lung
Troubles
take
Prescribed by the medical profession for
twenty-two years Angier’s Emulsion is now
universally recognised as a standard approved
treatment for coughs, bronchitis, asthma,
consumption, and for all catarrhal affections of
the resoiratorv or d’gestive organs. Angier’s
Emulsion is soothing and healing to throat,
lungs, stomach and intestines, and it has a
most invigorating, tonic influence upon the
general health. Equally useful for children
or adults, it is an invaluable household
remedy for chest affections
FREE TRIAL
Send name and address, 4d- postage, and mention this p.per
Since It Costs No More to insist on having Zanetic
in your Penduplicate books, why not enjoy the per-
fect, ,permanent pencopies obtained with such a
minimum of effort? If any difficulty in getting
supplied, either books complete or the sheets alone
furnished by S. B. Zanetic, Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. ZANETIC is ALL BRITISH; contains no
foreign dye.— Advt. [2
Calverß
iletSoap
is an excellent soap to choose
for everyday toilet use. t
is an antiseptic soap of the
highest quality, delicately
perfumed and decidedly
refreshing. A healthy soap
to use particularly in warm
climates.
(In 3-tablet boxes.)
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made byF. C. Calverts3* Co., Manchester, En%.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets*
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
A House.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DRAW d.wn the blinds, like lids o’er
weary eyes
That look no more upon the things of
earth.
And so, goodbye!
House that was “home” but yesterday,
where now
The blank w 7 alls meet me with a mute
ieproach,
The naked floors ring hollow to my tread
Like cries of inarticulate regret.
Last night betw r ixt the midmurk and the
gray
Thy last fire dwindled to a sullen spark,
And slow, reluctant as expiring hope,
Thy last lamp died and left us in the gloom.
To-morrow stranger feet shall come and go,
And alien shadow's fall across thy door
And flit from room to room, and here
appraise,
And there decry thy value —empty house,
O empty house that yesterday was Home!
Draw dow r n the blinds, like lids o’er w’eary
eyes
That w 7 .1l not wake or smile on us again!
Yea, so goodbye!
Last grave of many left beside the way!
victoria.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
By the Banks of the Murrum-
bidgee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
m M~Y mate, James Grahame, ex-farm
I boy, ex-cocky’s slave, ex-station-
hand, shearer, drover, station store-
keeper, city bushman, hawker, battler, com-
mercial traveller; ex-almost anything you
can think of in Australia, and now settler
and road maintenance man on the Yanco
Irrigation area —James Grahame, my mate,
hath a long, scraggy neck like myself; and,
as we are both collarless, our necks are
longer and scraggier than they usually are
when we are out together.
We first met in Bourke some 25 years
ago, and thus we share two pasts, so to
speak; but, as we were very young men
then, those pasts are boys’ pasts ; and being
but recently re-mated we haven't got to
speak of those pasts yet. There’s a certain
shyness about the matter, if you understand,
which may or may not deepen as those two
25-year pasts are cleared up. They’ll have
to be cleared up first, and it is mainly for
that reason w 7 e have come out into the
gnarledest, wildest, weirdest, oldest bush in
Australia, to camp “on the river” for a
night or two under pretence of fishing.
Our faces and voices have already grown
re-familiar to each other, and w r e seem to
have changed not at all. Not to each other.
I aim getting into the habit of calling him
Jim and he of calling me Harry, aid we
are both getting out of the habit of calling
each other by names w - hich w r e went by in
the strenuous old Union days of Ninety-one
and Ninety-two. The hearing of Jim’s
other name seemed to surprise and disturb —
and even distress and pain—Jim’s wife and
family. And the hearing of my other name
-seemed to surprise my friends. There
used to he two young fellers knockin’ about
Bourke and West-o’-Bourke named Joe
Swallow 7 and Jack Mitchell in those old days.
But they’re dead, or supposed to be dead.
Dead as the days.
My mate, Jim Grahame, hath, as 1 said,
a long, scraggy neck, and w 7 eareth a wide-
brimmed, soft-felt grey hat, turned up
squarish at the sides and back and down in
front, so that it looks at a little distance in
the river gloaming like the beak of a large
aquatic bird with a ruttie standing up round
the back of its neck. He also has a habit of
squatting on the flats of his feet like a black-
fellow 7 —a habit peculiar to few bushmen;
and thus he fishes, eats, smokes and yarns
in camp when he isn’t standing up or’lying
on the broad of his back. And as on these
occasions he donneth, w 7 hen the evenings are
chilly on the river, an old black “tail” coat
(relic of his “commercial” days, I suppose),
he looks, as he squats in the mud by a line,
so remarkably like a pelican in the shadow 7,
or a shag in the sunlight, that any stray
“pommy” or “tourist” coming round the
nearest corner or buttress of the sun-blasted
banks w r itk a. “sporting” gun would pop at
him on sight.
I nearly had a shot at him myself this
morning, about sunrise. I’d gone down river
at daybreak and w 7 as working up the bank
after ducks; but Jim had shifted down round
the bend to try a. line there, and I didn’t
know it. Besides, the sun w r as rather in
r.y eyes. It might have been worth while,
from a sentimental point of view, just to hear
Jim swear again in the old style.
The sun is setting over the gnarled old
trees and McCaughey’s Channel, which is out
of sight to the west. McCaughey’s Channel,
conceived and perfected by one man long
before our Yanco scheme was dreamed of, is
choked with reeds now, though the water still
finds a way through. They call the reeds
“McCaughey’s' curse,” he fought hard and
long to get rid of them —they’re like lawyer
politicians who choke the channels of the
State. But the Government will get rid of
them when the other half of McCaughey’s
run comes into the hands of the people after
“Old Sam” dies.
But here the very grass is monstrous —
exaggerated; coarse beyond coarseness; dry
beyond dryness; burnt beyond color; dead
beyond death. Standing, leaning, lying,
and swept all ways, and seemingly pitch-
forked any way or whirlwind-drifted where
the sheep have nosed or footed it aside to
get at the seed. Dry, twisted billabong and
billabong branch-beds, where you’d swear
water had never been ; all grotesque. Here
and there you’d swear they had been dug
and banked and levelled by man. And all,
river and all. littered by giant trees, or trees
like huge dwarfs, and logs bleached and
blackened, squat and ugly and monstrous in
any light; burnt, broken; limbs torn and
twisted, like sections of extinct monster rep-
tiles petrified.
And the trees! The Blasted Ileath, the
Witches’ Cavern and Birnam Wood are
PUBLICITY.
MAN: “ Well, sonny, have you lost a hag!"
BOY (chancing it): “No, I ’aven’t ’cactly; but me sister, wot works in the laundry , lost
one."
nothing to this. Grotesque beyond grotes-
queness ; weird beyond weirdness. Old!
A forest’s hag-age! Gnarled into the sem-
blance of all forms, human and inhuman;
gnarled out of the semblance of all forms,
human and inhuman. And where they have
burnt through, in perhaps ages of bush fires,
they have fallen with very little breakage,
like great squat pillars of cast-iron. Others
that were hollow left great, tall, jagged,
blackened stumps, sometimes with the whole
side torn out of the shell of the trunk ; torn
and crushed and broken and splintered like
bandboxes stamped by the foot for kindling-
wood. And where they have been washed
under by the flood's, and have fallen into the
river—the great, mushroom-shaped mass of
roots uppermost, and the trunks and the
limbs turned into snags - in the river—they
are like the foundations, pillars and roofs of
Chaos. In the hollows under those great,
burnt-out trunks, and under the roots and
trunks of the trees that have fallen into the
liver, are many and many a witches’ cavern.
But, after the rains, when the grass is
green, this must seem an elf wood, a demon
wood and a fairy wood ; a Windsor Forest,
or the “wood near Athens ’in "A Midsummer
Night’s Dream.”
The sun blasted banks aforesaid, of a
brownish drab color, seem to have been
cracked roughly in squares, and might resemble
the sides of the Pyramids at a little distance;
and some abrupt corners of the bends might
be the Pyramids themselves. But across the
river, over the nearer tangle of blackened
snags, a white sandspit runs down that might
do for the beach of any little pleasure resort
in the reaches of Sydney Harbor, with a
tiny, still, little back-water round inside the
lower end of it. The little still-water is
always there at the toe. Mark Twain
noticed the same thing round inside the foot
of all the islands —the “niggerheads,” or
what I’d call the billabong or anabranch
tongues—of the Mississippi.
Sunset. Sometimes on the Miirrunibidgee
it’s ruby-red; sometimes set with golden
islands; sometimes —but I don’t think it’s
ever twice the same. Darkness comes in.
It doesn’t seem to come down , but moves in
from somewhere in the outer wilds; ap-
proaching sullenly, sulkily, furtively, un-
observed. like wild blackfellows. There's but
one “approach” to the Murrumbidgee.
Through the gaunt trees. You see the dry,
further edge of a depression that might be a
billabong, gutter or anything like that; but
you don’t see the river until you’re right
on to it. There’s no “river timber” with
mulga outside, as on the Darling. But. after
seeing it once or twice, if Jim, or even I,
were to strike within a couple of hundred
yards of it we’d know at once, by some sort
of half-instinct, that we’d come to the river
—ard we were Darling River plainsmen,
not Murrumbidgee bushmen.
Our big tire brings out the banks, gaunt
•trunks, limbs and boughs, flickeringly and
eerily, as of old; and black demons and
yahoos peer round the trunks; and great
grey ghosts start out behind; and bunvips
rise amongst the snags of the river. And all
is snug and comfortable just as of old, as
Jim and I lie at a safe distance from the
fire, our blankets spread on the clay at the
foot of the bank, with a log and coats for
our pillows, and smoke at the stars. The
interval of twenty-five years has vanished.
The "muskeeters” are not with us to-
night, in the Bushman sense of the term.
But there are a few, and my citified skin is
tender. I hold out as long as I can, and then
scratch, softly at first, but soon with in-
creasing interest. Even Jim scratches a
bit, furtively. You see, he has been a gauze-
doored. mosquito-netted farmer for three
years.
“Pretend to take no notice of them, ’Arry,”
he says, “and they'll leave you alone.”
But I get up and go down along the mud
co rebait the lines. That done, I see to the
billy, and then climb the bank to the level
for. more wood. The other spooks vanish
as 1 reach the top.
This sort of bush seems to have lost all its
"weird melancholy ’ for me since I lived in
it last, some thirty years ago.
Daybreak; but daybreak on the Murrain
bidgee must wait. 1 get up with the sudden
sunrise, push the lire together, move the
billy on to the coals, and blunder, stiff and
unsteadily, down to the lines. I'd noticed
a large bream —or was it a perch V—and a
small cod in a big biscuit-tin half-full of
water. Jim had pulled them out about dav-
liglit, he told me, and he said he'd been up
off and on. attending to the lines since mid-
night. I take in the lines. Result: another
and smaller “brim’’ and a cod. "Fresh-
water fish for breakfast I’’ you say. Not on
your life! Those fish go home to be dumped
carelessly on the end of the table before
practical and unenthusiastie womenfolk
with no souls above keeping down the
butcher’s bill. Yanco fishermen take
tinned fish with them when they go a-fishin^
I bait and throw out the lines again, and
come back to the fire and swill tea and stand
about and smoke. We smoke ourselves dry
and stiff necked, fishing. Jim lies on the
broad of his back, with his pelican hat on.
his mouth slightly open, one hand loosely
holding his pipe on the clay beside him, and
two long, hairy, sockless shanks sticking
out from under the low T er edge of the
blanket, ending in a great, grey, furry pair
of string-laced bluchers, with the heels in
the clay and the toes well out. like the
cradle of a ship seen from the end.
I remember the Murrumbidgee. years ago
at Gundagai. as a muddy gutter, with a
white bridge; one hopeless, dried-up fisher-
man ; and dull, dry, hot. uninteresting banks.
Like any other inland river near a town.
The water here is clear and wide, and deep
in places, with a peculiar bluish, metallic
tint —very unreal to me at first—and with
all sorts of treacherous currents and under-
currents. Further down, below the snags, in
free water, is a tree somewhere in the centre
of the .stream on an island of its own matted
roots. It seems a sort of fir, very green, and
bronze green about the root-islet—slime, I
suppose. Like one of those wooden-toy
trees that come out of "Noah’s Arks,” with
a wooden foot standing on top of the water.
Tree and root-islet resemble the form of an
ant-waisted lady of the crinoline period, with
a small sailor-hat and a great onion-net of
hair behind gliding up-stream, with most of
the crinoline and flounces ballooning out
behind to form the root islet. God knows
how many floods have gone over her. In
form, atmosphere and color she seems the
only unreal thing here—where everything is
unreal, if you take that point of view. I
suppose she belongs to the Australian River
Fairies.
I lie down beside Jim out of sheer rest-
lessness. turn over on my side, as if suddenly
drugged—and sleep.
I w T ake —the real, satisfied, refreshed, done-
with-sleep awakening now; sit up. stretch
and yawn gratefully : draw up my knees, rest
my arms on them, and look across the river.
Then I open my eyes and stare! Balmoral
Beach about nine o’clock on Sunday morn-
ing ! Girls run and skip in Canadian cos-
tumes, and flounder into the bluish-tinted
water, and run out again, and chase each
other, and laugh with all their eyes and teeth
across at us! No. it isn't a dream. I look
lilt, and through the tree trunks get a
glimpse of a tilted van. some sulkies and
haltered horses. It is merely a party from
Yanco who have driven out through the
bush early on Sunday morning to bathe on
the sand-spit opposite our camp.
HENRY LAWSON.


IN
i'o sMh
- vX c r >- :: .
/ v ~. s^^
• ■-
J
V *»c
s *
\ *&»
*" ..
XV
ft ■
):.y
m 5
■
KS
m
m
a
x
i
a
■
ft
ft-,.
X
W
Xs
m?
=s
r;ol
sc:
X %N
$
Sv
IS
NS
-~
V>:
1 ' r "r
Gonppal Jojjvo
Comma nder-in Chief
of {ho French Army
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing of GeneralJoffre, Commander-ia-Chief of the Ftenm
Army, is one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of Hrs ory The
drawn for us by V. Jardine, have been reproduced on the f,nest art paper,
a n the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, bong entirely tree
advertising are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
Address to Australia or New Zealand on receipt of fd. in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we adv.se you to wote early .o
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, Sydney, *
lilll
.
N9lO
K.Y
WH


1
W‘
The
Re-inforced
& Invisible
Neckpiece.
The Sleeve
Lift- for
Ease and
Comfort
A BIG SAVING
IN SHIRT WEAR
Every Man nowadays wants the utmost for his
money. The value and advantages offered in our
Popular
“DOUBLE-LIFE” SHIRT
cannot be excelled in Australia. Everything is
right—the cut, fitting and materials. In addition
o the reinforced neckband, we now supply an
extra pair of cuffs free.
You are assured absolutely double life in these Shirts
which means that the price of
POST FREE, 5/9 TO ANY STATE,
stands for true economy.
Zephyr material, Blue,
Colors guaranteed.
The Shirts are made in
Black and Helio Stripes.
[1
GHAS. LANE & GO.
PTY.
LTD.
ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE.
THE TOP NOTCH”srrvreH
INGfEORGE
WHISKY.
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS, PEARLS, SAPPHIRES.
Specialty Australian Gems
89 Market Street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, formerly Manager White
Cliffs Opal Mines, Proprietor,
BelleVue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Ea >erlv Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical (iaiuon .
______ MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Prc irietress. _
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
HOSTILITIES AHEAD.
“And you’re going hack to fight after being
so severely wounded! How brave you
are!”
“My oath, I'm going, Miss! There’s a bloke
in our battalion ’ooked me bloomin’
watch, an’ I’m after the cow.”
‘Cangai”: Here’s a useful wrinkle to
stop bleeding caused by scrub leech, which is often
unduly prolonged. Apply the ash of burnt thick
brown paper. It does the trick right away, acts as
an antiseptic, and can be washed off soon after being
placed on the wound without starting the flow again!
It's a handy addition to the shaving kit, too.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Abo-folks will grin
when the\ r learn that one of our High Court Judges
has spent a couple of days determining the tremen-
dous question whether kangaroos and emus are
“articles of household use or ornament.” A Major
Henry Fothergill ran a mansion with extensive
giounds in the county of Kent. He specialised in
kangaroos and emus. When he left for another world
he bequeathed to his wife his furniture, pictures and
other articles of household use or ornament.”
Family complications ensued, and the question arose
whether the kangaroos and the emus would be
claimed with the cats, the dogs and the fowls as use-
ful or ornamental domestic accessories. Barristers,
solicitors and witnesses brought their collective wis-
dom to bear upon the point, and amongst other
things wheeled up evidence that “the kangaroos and
emus did not come into the house unless they were
invited to do so.” Justice Sargent eventually decided
that “the testator had a hobby with regard to keep-
ing these animals, but it was impossible to hold that
they were articles of household use or ornament.”
But there are rumbles about an appeal, and by the
time the House of Lords settles the point for all
eternity some £5OOO will have been spent. It
isn’t much good to our old friends of the bush, but
it is ripping for the sharks.
“Agricola”: New-chums out with a party
of duck-shooters ought to take warning from my ex-
perience. Along the Bombala River (N.S.W.), as
we rounded a bend, a flock of 12 or 14 ducks
departed for elsewhere in great haste, while we were
still beyond range. A large, brown hawk, sitting
in a tree above us, seemed, to my disgruntled eye, to
be observing our disappointment with unnecessary
contempt. So I let drive at him, and he flew away.
Never have I been spoken to with so little respect.
It appears that the bird was a “duck hawk,” whose
sacred mission it is to hover above the waterholes
and make the feathered tenants unwilling to leave.
Even if they do leave their fear of him makes them
take to the water again very soon. So the duck-
hawk is included in family prayers by all good fowl
murderers.
■ ■
Jay Jay”: “YYandi” (B. 6/4/’IG) makes
out a true bill about the blacks’ fear of caves.
Binghi cannot be induced to enter the Wombeyan
burrows, for instance. Native tradition hath it that
a huge serpent left the sea near the site of Sydney,
worked its slimy way across country to the Blue
Mountains, turned south, and by sheer force of
weight ploughed out the present Burragorang Valley.
In its wanderings it made the tributary gorges of
the main valley and finally reached ' Wombeyan.
Here it forced its enormous head and body into the
earth, thus forming the caves, where it is said still
to remain. The Burragorang blacks, who have
mostly gone to hunt the celestial ’possum, religiously
avoided the caves. In the same district are deep
holes in the Wollondilly and the Cox which black
brudder passes by on the other side. Bunyip is
said to reside in these spots and to have an under-
ground route to a small lagoon on the mountains
behind the river. Any venturesome nig. who bathes
in the holes runs the risk of being seized by bunyip
carried underground to the lagoon, and there polished
off.
“Barcoo”: The cattle-man and overlander
of the Gulf and the Territory stand right out on
their own in the stock-handling busi-
ness. The celerity with which huge
mobs are juggled with is remark-
able, and when the “inside” stock-
man from the eastern coast of Queens-
land first comes in contact with these
professors of the game they are)
knocked in a heap. IV hen the novice
from the coast sees the head-stock-
man’s two cutting-out hacks rugged
like racehorses in inclement weather
his astonishment increases, but not
half as much as it does when he wit-
nesses the combination of perfect horse-
manship with perfect horse cutting
out 1000 bullocks from a mob of
3000 or 4000. Horse and man are
in instinctive harmony, and no animal
has a possible chance of getting away
once it has been walked quietly to
the outskirts of the,, mob. The horse
only requires sitting, on, but'it’s no
mug who can do that on a good camp
prad once the beast attempts to rush
back to the main herd. The nag is
at its side like a flash, and if the
reluctant bullock attempts to turn on
his pursuer he keeps the closer in and
throws his head across the flying
animal's neck just past the shoulder.
That fixes the objector, who is shoul-
dered out to the cut-out mob. It is
one of the most interesting things to watch in cattle-
land.
il* * * *
“Condamine”: “Stingo” (B. 20/4/’l6)
speaks out of his turn when he corrects “Try Fluke.”
It is not so much upon the velocity as the class of
bullet that the stopping power of a rifle depends.
That is why the Martini-Henri will stop an animal
when a more modern rifle will not. I have seen a
kangaroo after being shot through the leg above the
hock with a .303 nickel bullet hop 100yds. before
the limb broke. Shooters with this rifle usually file
a cross in the top of the bullet when after game
In our camp when moulding .32 calibre bullets we
slip a piece of paper half-way down the mould
Result, the bullet bursts when it enters, and does
not come out the other side, and there is a very dead
animal with only a small hole in the skin.
CONSOLATION.
“Did yez win anything at the races, Pat?”
“Oi did not, Mike.”
“Ah, well, aisy come, aisy go.”
Haka”: “Hydros” wants to know the
origin of the Corriedale, which I listed with 50
other breeds of jumbueks (B. 30/12/’l5). Well,
wayback in the ’6o’s, James Little, manager of
Corriedale, Oarnaru (M.L.), started experimenting
with a Romney Marsh-merino cross, and was getting
along well when Dr. Webster, owner of the estate,
died, and the experiment had to be postponed, as
the property was sold. Subsequently, Little secured
a run of his own in North Canterbury, and recom-
menced where he had left off; but instead of the
Romney Marsh he substituted Lincoln rams. He
put 4000 large-framed high-class merino ewes to
Lincolns. From 100 of the best ram lambs, the
progeny of these ewes, a heavy cull was made and
20 of the best mated with a pick of the half-bred
ewes, and by a continuance of this process of in-
breeding, Little fixed a distinct type—the Corriedale.
They are stronger in constitution than the ordinary
crosses of sheep, withstand trouble equally as well
as the merino, and are less dainty in the matter of
feed. With favorable conditions they give a heavy
clip of fine quality; and where the rainfall is scanty
and the feed short, the Corry tops the prices.
“Agricola”: Re “Papua” (B. 30/3/’l6)
and his box-fish humorist. A similarly-jovial crea-
ture is the toad-fish of the N. S. Wales coast. It
has the reputation of being poisonous if eaten. Speci-
mens are often washed up on the beach, and if a
youngster in the know finds one he proceeds to roll
it on the sand. The toad-fish is so tickled by the
joke that it swells with suppressed mirth, and if
the treatment is persisted in it becomes almost
globular. Then the youngster heaves himself up for
a space towards the firmament, and returns with
enthusiasm and both feet upon the tummy of the
fish. It applauds with a loud report, and its con-
cealed iniquities spatter themselves over the curious
and amused onlookers. Sometimes, for a change, the
youngster puts the distended creature into a pool
where it light-heartedly floats on the surface, and
finally expires of suffocating hilarity.
* *
Nick Bottom”: Talking about queer
all hands at Priest’s sawmill, Murwillum-
bah (N.S.W.) were at a loss to account for a smell
that for a couple of days nearly drove the sawyer,
handle-man and tailer-out from their positions at
the bench. At last one of them suggested probing
the hollow log that supported the lower end of the
skids. The result astonished us. Three hens all
dead, and two of them shrieking for burial, came
forth, followed by a rooster who, although he was
first in and last out, was still alive, but looking more
like John the Baptist after his sojourn in the wilder-
ness than a respectable cock. They had evidently been
reconnoitring for a nest, till, owing to the'small
calibre of the log, they were unable to proceed fur-
ther ahead, and hadn’t the sense to go astern. The
rooster recovered, but I never saw him monkeying
around hollow logs again.
“Pick’: Someone (B. G/4/’l6) was talk-
ing about the inordinate length of bush ditties and
quoted the “Swaggie’s Song” of 27 verses. That’s a
mere couplet. When Ned Kelly and his ironclads were
shaking things up in Victoria ’way back in the early
’Bo's a song recounting their exploits was roughed
together by a shearer, who added a few stanzas
every time the gang was heard from, until the
blessed thing stretched to 336 lines. The tune to
NO TIME FOR ANY NONSENSE.
“See here, MacMahon. Oi want yez to go
across to th' township an ’ get me the
correct toime.”
“Very good, sir. If you give me your watch
I’ll he off at once.”
"To Hell wid yez! Wroite the toime down
on a piece of paper, an’ bring ut to me
immediately.”
which the oratorio was warbled was as mournful as
Dead March, so the opera fell into great dis-
favor, and after a time none of the chaps could
stand a nark who commenced to drone first about
h » w “the Kelly boys would live in spite of all the
police unhung, - ’ and finished up two hours later
with “the battle of Glenrowan’ - where “they nobly
f ell and died.”
(Continued on page 2G.)
THE ABOLTAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Aboliar’s a cheery soul,
Though prone to malediction;
He writes, to gain a golden goal,
A blend of fact and fiction ;
He tells the most enthralling tales
To passing tramp and stranger,
Of Murray cod and Darling whales
And ’scapes from deadly danger.
They cradled him beneath the gum
Beside the Lachlan River,
’Twas there he heard the bunyip hum
And saw the boogam shiver ;
When morning rose in callow glee
And drove the dark abhorred,
It gilt the locks that curled so free
About his truthful forehead.
He snuggled with the native bear
And cuddled with the ’possum ;
He tracked the adder to its lair
And sucked the wattle-blossom;
He found the emu’s hidden nest
And knew the native lingo
Of ev’ry tribe that prowled the West
Or camped beside the dingo.
He’s made a meal of prickly pear
And dined on quandong custard;
He knows the flavor, rich and rare,
Of roasted crow and mustard ;
He’s made a dish of jumper ants
Would make an angel hanker,
And tramped a week without his pants
When Pine Creek ran a banker.
There’s not a mile of dry Paroo
But in and out he knows it;
There’s not a brand of deadly brew
But he can tell who grows it;
There’s not a legend deeply blue
Among the lies that meet you
But he will find, among his crew,
Another yarn to beat you.
Romancing is his daily dram,
He pines for nothing better;
Sapphira was his olden dam,
Munchausen his begetter;
He loves to gild the landscape near
With all the hues of distance,
He dips his brush in paint, or beer,
And glorifies Existence!
QUEENSLAND.
P. FLAM.


What’s the Good of
Shivering with the Cold
or getting drenched with the rain when
yon can obviate the trouble and discomfort
with a smart, cosy “Murdoch” Overcoat?
You’ll need, to keep steam up if you mean
to sidetrack colds, coughs and chest troubles.
Get inside one
of Murdoch’s
Blankety Over-
coats,
The value is unequalled in the Common-
wealth, and for cosiness and comfort you’ll
find it a splendid investment. Made in
smart Blankety Tweeds, full skirted, ample
collar, patch pockets and strap cuffs.
Come in and experience the snug hug of one
of these Overcoats. We can fit every man.
We have also a splendid line of Double-
Breasted Overcoats, in Blanket and
other Tweeds, 35/-
Never-get-wet Macintoshes, too, at
29/6 —unsurpassed for comfort, value and
satisfaction.
Let us Overcoat
you to-day.
If you can’t call, send height and chest
measurements to Desk R.
c&mm
Jilt;
m
I
111*
I !
w i
m
Murdoch’s
IN PARK
ST. LTD,
Sydney
“Where the GOOD Hats are.”
A GOOD PROPOSITION!
v-. y
YOUR SODA FOUNTAIN CAN
EARN PROFITS ALL THE
YEAR ROUND!!
You’re missing much, both in volume
of trade and in percentage of profits if
you are not running the Hot Drink
Business. Your Fountain otherwise
lies practically idle all the Winter,
which represents capital at a stand-
still instead of earning.
The popularity of Hot Drinks have
increased wonderfully the last two or
three seasons. It means that if you
cater for this business you can make
a big thing out of it.
The outlay is very small.
The “PERFECTO” URN, as illus-
trated, is the medium you require; it’s
the best Winner for Trade in the hot-
beverage department yet placed before
the public.
The whole method is wonderfully
simple: you just drop into the cup of
boiling water one of our flavoring
Cubes, stir and then serve as delicious
and nourishing a drink as it is possi-
ble to produce.
1 Gallon Handsome Nickel-plated
Hot Water Urn, complete with
Taps, £1 5/-
1 Boz. Tin Beef Tea Extract.
Boz. Tin Celery Bouillon.
Boz. Tin Chocolate Bouillon.
Boz. Tin Tomato Bouillon.
1 Quart Bottle Coca Cola.
14 Doz. lOoz. Beef Tea Mugs.
THE LOT COMPLETE WITH
URN, £2/10/- CASH.
There’s big business to be done,
and you ought to see to it you get
your share.
“Speed up” and get into it.
Write us at once if you are inter-
ested. We’ll supply you with full
information.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
My best friend —the
‘Pianola’ Piano”
NO man could have a better com-
panion. Many are the times
when I have reached home dog-tired,
my brain addled with thinking and my
nerves jumpy with worry. T. hen I
have sat down at this good old
‘Pianola’ Piano of mine and, as ll by
magic, my troubles have vanished.
“It may be because the ‘Pianola’ Piano enables me
to throw my mind wholly into the playing, it may
be just the influence of the music itself, but what-
ever be the reason I get up from that instrument
with my mind swept clean of the cobwebs of woiry
and anxiety —ready and fit for new tasks and
problems.”
So says many a business man who owns a Pianola
Piano. The “Pianola” Piano provides pleasure as
inexhaustible as the music it enables you to play
and provides distraction, that every woiker needs in
these davs.
♦
6
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
m
A.
m
3:#-
i
{?
THE GENUINE PIANOLA
is supplied ONLY in these Famous Pianos:
STEINWAY—STECK.—STROUD —
and Famous WEBER.
If unable to call, write to us for New Catalog A of Pianola Pianos. We will be glad
to post you a copy, also particulars of our easy payments.
384 Georg'e
Street,
Sydney
(Next to Harringtons’).


4*
Made throughout in the
Empire from Australasian Wool by
Leicester Workpeople
Underwear
New •‘Olympic'* Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are made,
the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular
lines. Sole manufacturers
Get Jason guaranteed
unshrinkable Under- v
wear for every member
of your family. Your dealer
will supply you.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
c°
V
V
1 MORRISs 1
IMPERIAL
Obtainable *ll Chemists and Stores
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident # Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE-
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Mynza Bier”: Talking of beehives and
honey, can any Abo-liar better 5521 b. of extracted
honey taken from one hive within a period of five
months? The “man who did” is H. L. Jones, of
Goodna (Q.), and the same hive this season (the
first portion of which was adverse to the bees) has
almost reached the 4001 b. mark. Some honey' in
bees, if one knows how to work the mint properly !
“Matey”: “D.F.” (B. 20/4/T6) perhaps
lias a good big toe to kick with, but he is up against
a brick wall when he says that deep-soil cultivation
is practically' all hot-air. His chrysanthemum argu-
ment merely points to the error of over-manuring,
just like trying to rear his tender little daughter on
a champagne diet and not expecting her to wilt. Too
much manure for a plant is liable to bring on a quick
attack of plant-gout. Down Yanco way the deep
sub-soiling argument settled itself thus. Lucerne
wasn’t growing too well, but there were some splen-
did patches in the poorest paddocks. On investiga-
tion the lucerne showing the best stands was found
to be in old log and stump holes, or on the old Sam
McCaughey irrigation channels that had been filled
up—places that had accidentally been sub-soiled, as
it were.
* * * ■*
“J.G.”: Agree with “D.F.” (B. 20/4/TG)
that the benefit of deep cultivation is mostly a
myth, though in a few soils where there happens to
be a hard cement layer between the surface soil and
the clay subsoil, it is necessary to break through the
hard tack to get the best results. But in most soils
trenching and subsoiling is worse than useless. As one
who has grown wheat, vegetables and fruit in differ-
ent dirts, I am convinced that the only thing that
tells in most soils is good surface cultivation to keep
the moisture from drying out too quickly. The plant
roots will look after the rest. It is wonderful to
what depths soft roots will penetrate in very hard
country. I have seen lucerne go down 10 or 12
feet in a year or so in the hardest clay. Some of
the most profitable orchards in Victoria are planted
in country that was never subsoiled or trenched,
whilst some of the worst are on land that had been
trenched and deeply cultivated at the cost of many
pounds per acre.
* * * #
“Longy”: Allow me to place a hand on
“Yatti’s” head and declare him the winner of this
black-cockatoo disagreement. The two species are
quite distinct. The one ( Calyptorhynclius funereus)
has a yellow earpatch and yellow under its rudder.
During Lent it lives on the seeds of bush trees, but
at other times tears the trees open to find wood-
boring larvae. On a rainy' day it is the delight of a
traveller’s heart to come upon a stringybark where
cocky has been dining, for there he finds excellent
kindling for his fire when the rest of the bush is
sodden. The other brand (C. viridis) lives on the
seeds of the casuarina. The male has vermilion red
on the tall, but his wife goes without. Now I’m
after information. Can anyone tell me the farthest
point west these birds go in N. S. Wales? There are
none here in western Riverina.
HE SUFFERED.
TOO.
THE HOSTESS: “Don’t
you think she sings
with feeling?”
THE GUEST: “Oh, I
do! I don’t see
how anybody could
sing like that with-
out feeling it.”
“Longy”: These yabbies have me wet.
Local bush naturalists can prescribe no relief. I
saw a new tank recently sunk. Rain came along
and filled it, and from it the other day I dragged
a mud-encrusted yabbie to light. Now whence did
he come? There is no other tank within a mile, and
the nearest creek is three miles away. Nor has any
German aeroplane passed overhead dropping yabbies
with germs of infectious diseases in their whiskers.
MORE LABOR TYRANNY.
ABO. BOUNDARY RIDER (to new arrival ): “Why you no eat beef this morning?”
IRISH IMMIGRANT: “Share, ye black haythen, I wouldn’t be after ’atin ’ mate on Friday.”
ABO. ( contemptuously ) : “By Cripe, Labor party been get at you all right!”
“Fish”: About nautical pigs (B.
6/4/’l6). Anyone who waited for pork chops till
a swimming pig slit his weasand would get mighty
hungry.. Years ago a boar which had been taken
across to Maria Island (Tas.) didn’t like the scenery,
so he swam back to the mainland. The channel is
four miles across at the narrowest point, and at the
place where pig probably tackled it is six miles
wide. Another pig once swam across the Derwent
at Hobart, but that is less than a two-mile jaunt.
“Chink”: A few years ago a wedge-tailed
eagle captured alive at a Rodborough (Vic.) farm
extended the tape 9ft. from wing-tip to wing-tip.
She (the female eagle is always bigger than the
old man) had stepped into a strong rabbit-trap,
Incidentally, eagle-catching is an easy matter in
the right class of country. Nothing more is needed
than an animal carcase and one or two dog-traps
weighted with 251 b. or so of metal.
“Mab”: If the premises do not already
smell too highly of strangely killed livestock, let me
dump in a couple more. One, a bullock with a 21b.
treacle-tin jambed firmly on his upper jaw. He died
of starvation. Two, a frilly jew-lizard with his head
and frill stuck inside a recumbent pickle-bottle.
Starvation in his case, too.
“F.H.R.”: Know the iodoform beetle?
I’ve been doing some sucker-bashing lately and at
times have been brought right back to the days I
spent in hospital by the strong smell of iodoform.
On investigation I always find a small coil of insect,
not unlike a centipede and of a red-rubber appear-
ance, at the root of the bushes from which the smell
emanates. You see some queer things in the bush
even when you’re sober. Last week I knocked out a
stringy-bark sucker and around the butt I' counted
over 50 green spiders. And they were all males.
“Corio” : A butcher in the Manning River
district (N.S.W.) recently lcaisered a heifer, barely
30 months old, that will take some beating as
regards weight. The infant tipped the scale at
BSOlb.
* » * *
“Try Fluke”: The biggest vegetable I
have discovered in the M.L. bush is a kauri in the
Upper ICaihu, North Auckland. Its corset measure
we made 48ft., which means that it would take a
hatpin 16ft. long to puncture it from port to star-
board. It was not very lofty, but spread its branches
out into a circumference that would cover a fair-
sized orchard. We reckoned on a rough calculation
that this shrub was well out of its first youth when
King Alfred spoiled the widow’s damper.
* * * *
“Chink”; I rise with enthusiasm to
endorse “Nil’s” plea (B. 13/4/’l6) for more cheerful
names for Australian wild flowers. At present our
flower-nomenclature is in an awful mess, particularly'
as regards the orchids. In Victoria most of these
little beauties are dubbed “spiders,” a title that sig-
nifies next-to-nothing. Like “Nil,” I also advanced
on the schools in the hope of persuading young Aus-
tralia to do better by their glory-blooms. It was
only then I realised how difficult the job was. The
old countries have mopped up so many of the easy%
simple, singing names that our kiddies found it hard
to get enough good Australian titles to go round ;
so much so that at one small bush-school I found
the youngsters using the difficult scientific terms.
Then there are the birds—dozens of beautiful (and
some unique) varieties weighted with titles that
no one is likely ever to use. “Black-vented ground-
bird,” “blue-bellied lorikeet,” “chestnut-rumped
ground wren,” “yellow-bellied shrike-tit.” Now then,
altogether, on behalf of the birds thus disfigured,
three hearty Australian curses!
“Cleveland”: In the north of Auckland
(ILL.), with a strong swarm of bees, the amount of
honey to be got from a two- to three-year-old nest
is only limited by the size of the vacancy in the
tree. In a puriri, where the nest was in one of the
main topmast branches, we got 17 kerosene tins, a
bucket, four nikau palm-leaf gourds, an enamelled
mug and a billycan (large), all full of loaded comb,
and there was enough left in the stump to feed the
bees through the winter. .
“Hay” : I once knew a purebred ,v
whose character as a dog was onit- 0 7 dln S°
He had been brought to the station
and grew to be a very big animal for a / Up
probably because he always had plenfv t ng °’
Though constantly with other dogs he never ? 7'
and even at an age when most dogs lose
ful ways Ginger was ever ready for a ™ Pay '
am one who was willing. He was wm-n, t™ 6 with
in war debentures as a sheep-dog, and then
the tracks of a stray mob would follow th PUt ° n
pace that kept a horseman at a canter to S™ ?* 3
with him. When working sheep he was
to bite, and the only time the killing instinct 1 !
to awake in him was when he caught s"IT
poultry-yard. He was a whale at swallowing L n ° s *
“Barcoo”: What’s the matter with th*
curlew (stone plover) that causes the aboriginal,7
refuse to cat it? The only explanation ! ever
was on the Upper Warrego (Q.) one evenimr J
the commissariat department had punctured «,
black ducks and two curlews. The repast was
about to commence when a buck abo. and twn 7
appeared looking very hungry. The cook ,<5
out the plover to them with a generous slice of
browny. Then the yabber began. Billy fired th
at me: “Baal that pfeller budgery. He been r,w“
about longa bush all same cranky pfeller 7"
tinkit he bin make it the mad pfeller.” And bWi
dfoAmt and SiSter PUt bird ° n ° ne side in
* * *
“foou”: Figliting the Hun is less nerve-
racking than running a small country railway-station
This is one item that bobs up almost daily. He’s a
big, loud-breathing drunk, who spreads himself unon
the window-ledge and invites me to have a “droo”
out of a flowerpot full of beer:—
“S’l ight, mister ; ’s got a bung in ”
“No, thanks. Want a ticket? Hurry up”
“Yes; got any?” (Boozv cackle here)
“Whereto? And be quick. The train’s due.”
Looks hard at me; then: “Melbin.”
“First or second?”
No answer: Boozy Bill feeling in his pocket
Train whistles in the cutting. Bill slowly draws
out a pound.
“First or second?” I roar at him.
“Oh, better give us one of each.”.
The drunk pushes the pound through; I fling him
two tickets and some change, and then rush out to
attend to the train. About three hours later I find the
blithered individual trying to sell the flower-pot to
the postmistress.
* * * *
“Nick Bottom”: If it’s flowers you’re
after, take my advice and spend your Christmas vaca-
tion hunting over the heath country that stretches
between the Hunter estuary and Port Stephens. If
you can get there in October and November all the
better. But I’ll guarantee that in either case you’ll
find sufficient of indigenous flora to make you glad
you went there instead of visiting either the
“roof” or the back skillion of Australia that “Pick”
and other fellows brag about.
“Boggabri” : Here’s the quaint names of a
few more pubs which have flourished in N. S. Wales;
Camellia Grove, Cauliflower, Currency Lass, Horse
and Jockey, Invigorator, Orange Grove, Swan with
Two Necks, Who’d Thought It, Live and Let Live,
Do Drop Inn, Honest Lawyer. The Swan with Two
Necks w r as at the corner of George and Park streets,
Sydney, and was kept by one O’Shanassev, an Italian,
but after he gave over the license his successor
joined in the march of progress and changed the
sign to the Coronation.
AN INSUFFICIENT CLUE.
PARSON : “My poor girl, how long have y[?]
been serving Satan?”
BARMAID : “I don’t know. I always call m’
customers by their Christian names."
“Tiaki”: I have seen a family of albinos
among the Maoris. When the first cream-faeed coon
appeared there was a wild yell from papa Henan 1 ,
who repeated all the horrid things he knew of te
prurry pakeha” in language which had not been
disinfected for centuries. He was eventually recon-
ciled by the older Henares, who explained the albino
problem, and the dove of peace came to heel again-
At the next event there was another howl from t e
disgusted Henare, who mentioned divorce and shot
guns. After that, he found the thing to be a per
manent institution, and he accepted it as a stro e
of Fate. If the Papuan albino is anything like the
Maori article it would suggest nothing more beau-
tiful than a d.t. dream of the methylated dipso.
By the way, has anyone seen a Chow albino kicking
about ?


j O
&
tIES
%
o\^
s
HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
AT MODERATE PRICES.
CIGARETTES
jA connoisseur says: “ I always
smoke State Express Cigar-
ettes, no other brands tempt me.
The consistent quality and flavor
can always be rtelied upon. Wby
should I seek elsewhere?”
333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
STANDARD WEIGHT
NOT LESS THAN
FOR
D.
Obtainable of all
tobacconists and stores
throughout Australasia.
a*
s
-rT& s
W
tO A
c
m
u'y
on/
\v>
gU.
«r
B'f
tup e °
v;>;
ACCOC
VJPAC
WlA^
tOB
OAtH
ON
A”
oN
Sole Manufacturers :
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
LONDON, ENG.


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold s but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to make any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
mm
a M 13==
,! Up
IMw
■ ( 4' «§=W'*
u
S/
ir
■s*
‘^r
O
i
«?
if.
M
*.r?
W
|iS
im
ru
K.
¥
m.
7U- J
'Jfi
WZ
...
1181
13.
W 9!
-/■’ . f'v g
22
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on tHe CHEST
WEAK LUNGS.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney. N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
At a down-South suburban picture-show
three weeks back a lady in the audience, dur-
ing the progress of a travel film, uttered a
man’s name in a shrill scream ai»d fainted.
Three days later the lady, accompanied by
her solicitor and certain witnesses, paid for
a private display. The lady is the wue of a
chief officer on a big steamer; the travel film
was a series of views of Japan. The lady
and the witnesses identified the English
sailor standing under a blossoming cherry-
tree with a little Jap woman and two small
Jap children as the lady’s first mate; and
only the lawyers know what is going to
happen next. Meanwhile first mates with
second, third and fourth mates in various
ports are advised to either duck the cinema-
tograph operator or go disguised.
“Eddyson” on a venture in opera :
Reading the following in the Argus “Nature
Notes” the other day awakened fond memories:—
In an old hut where mice were numerous there
were always three or four singers. They were very
tame, and used to sing at all hours of the day and
night, but when disturbed and absolutely motionless
they were silent, only singing while moving. When
they were singing their sides used to vibrate, as those
of a cat do when it is purring.
Ordinary, ignorant individuals who, having lived in
a suburban boarding-house, think they know the
mouse in all its aspects will ridicule this; but I
would point out that the town mouse is no prairie
warbler. Self-preservation forced him to abandon
voice-cultivation and forego choir practice immedi-
ately the use of cats came into vogue. The singing
mouse betrayed his presence to the house Tabby when
vocalising, and was wiped out; but in the bush
there was nothing to discourage the little singer.
Consequently in districts wayback where snakes are
few and cats are unknown the mouse still trills his
merry lay. He has a pleasing note, hardly as shrill
as that of the grey wood grub, but more aggressive
than the call of the cockroach. And mice are par-
ticularly proud of their voices, especially the tenors.
I never kept cage mice myself, but in most of the
huts of the rough mill-hands at Boobybilly you will
find a neat little gilded cage containing a singing
mouse, or a pair, who make the humble home melo-
dious with their joyous song. Maltby, a hatter at
Stone End, had a whole choir of mice, which he had
trained to do operas, symphonies and part-songs.
Maltby was a bit of a musician himself, and the
finest performer on an ordinary haircomb that I have
ever heard; but his favorite instrument was a 40-
gallon bombardon, an instrument of the oboe family
that has the compass of a bass bull. Maltby accom-
panied his mouse choir on the bombardon, and the
combination was particularly fine, especially 'in
grand opera. Since hearing Maltby’s operatic
company do “The Flying Dutchman,” with Maltby’s
bombardon providing the storm-effects, I have no
desire to ever again hear German or Italian opera-
tives in Wagner’s tremendous musical insurrection.
Maltby was very ambitious; he believed he had a
fortune in his singing mice, and when their reper-
toire was complete, he went to Melbourne as a
Dutch impresario, intending to give public perform-
ances in the leading theatres. But he forgot all
about the cats, and lost two-thirds of his chorus
and a corps de ballet on the first night of his stay
in the city. Then his prima-donna caught cold, which
developed into pneumonia, his Carmen eloped with
the chief baritone, ar.cther lyric soprano was choked
in a wire trap, and two contralti and a silvery tenor
succumbed to poisoned wheat. With the few remain-
ing vocalists Maltby endeavored to popularise the
singing mouse as a house pet in the suburbs, and
finally got six months for fraud. In his extremity
the poor fellow disguised a mezzo-soprano mouse in
yellow feathers and sold it as a cock canary. Since
then I have heard nothing of Maltby, but in the
spring I always take a trip to Boobybilly to hear
the furry songsters trill their woodnotes wild.
Bert Leywood and Miss Morell, one-
time of “The Follies” that J. and N. Tait
ran at St. Kilda (Alelb.), have returned
to their native Australia under Mclntosh
direction. They figure on the Tivoli bill as
Leywood and Novell, and are now a much-
travelled couple, having toured Japan and
other parts since they set out from Mel-
bourne.
“Stargazer”: I see it was a heavy
dog-tax that forced the German housefather
to eat his dog. Now I see it is proposed
to tax operatic performances in Germany.
This means a tax on tenors. Well, let us
hope for the best.
“J.F.H.” : J. M. Barrie’s latest little joke
was fired off at an afternoon performance
in London Coliseum for the benefit of a
ladies’ committee which is organising con-
certs for the enlivenment of Tommy in
France and Flanders. Queen Mary smiled
decorously at its humor, her daughter
laughed in frank, girlish style, and the gal-
lery had a good time, too. The rising of
the curtain revealed Edward Gwenn, in a
fur-lined coat and an aggressive Amurrikan
accent, standing in front of a cinema theatre.
He is Silas K. Thunder, the film potentate.
He wants to know why, in this year’s cele-
brations of the tercentenary of Shakspeare,
the “movies” have been overlooked. He is
going to repair the omission and show the
world how Shak. can be handled by an up-to-
date Amurrikan with a punch. So he calls
upon Irene to “release the film,”
and then the widely-burlesqued picture ver-
sion of “Macbeth” starts on its sanguinary
career. Lady Macbeth wanders about with
pails of gore; the gruesome old hags of the
ordinary version are transformed into new-
style witches in white muslin ; and- various
other eccentricities of picture-palace produc-
tion are smartly satirised. The best laughs
are secured by the spoof letters and ex-
planations in Yankee slang flashed on the
screen ; and the curtain falls on a happy end-
ing, with the Macbeths sweet and penitent.
Incidentally Marie Lohr, Gladys Cooper and
various other stage beauties were permitted
to promenade in front of Royalty and a
packed house on the plea that they were
unemployed actresses on the look-out for a
job at the movies.
A curious mix-up occurred in a Vic. pro-
vincial town the other day to exemplify the
fact that if two coffined corpses are sent
by the one train to the one destination
extreme care is necessary to prevent an
awkward contretemps. On this occasion the
coincidence of two bodies being consigned
to the one town by the one train was
heightened by the similarity of their names.
One late lamented was Cohn; the other
Cohan. The Cohns accepted delivery of
their deceased parent, and after keeping him
over night with due ceremonial, the box
was opened up in the morning. Seven Yid-
dish relations then fetched a simultaneous
shriek. The face in the coffin was not that
of Moses Cohn ; it was of a distinctly Hiber-
nian contour. Then commenced a wild hunt
for the missing Cohn. The Cohns got on
the track of Jhe Cohans shortly after mid-
day, and waylaid the funeral of Patrick
Cohan at the cemetery gates. Only when
a fight seemed imminent did the Cohans
consent to the opening of their coffin. The
man inside was no Patrick. A Cohan had
never looked so wholly Moses. After some
delay an exchange was effected, and each
deceased was buried in his own proper
person. But think of the possibilities on the
Day of Resurrection had the Cohns not been
true to their old policy of paying for nothing
without inspection.
Lenwood, a missionary from the Islands,
has exploded in Adelaide over the idiocy of
rigging up natives in white-man’s dress.
Most missionaries, he says, “have the idea
that the Gospel goes hand-in-hand with
clothes,” and the Islands have “become
infected with the virus of clothing.” Papua
is still “comparatively free,” and he hopes
the practice, “unlovely, unhealthy, and lead-
ing to false modesty,” will not gain ground
there. He himself would not worry over
anything beyond “essential decency.” Gov-
ernor Galway, who was in the expedition to
Benin (Africa), and saw the “execution
pits” and “crucifixion trees” full of vic-
tims. gave a handsome testimonial to the
work since done by missionaries in those
parts. Unlike most soldiers, he approves
of them ; but he, too, thinks their fetich of
skirts and trousers absurd.
There are not many European nations
with their hands out of the fire. This is
how the division list stands
Allies. Enemy. Alleged Neutrals.
Great Britain. Germany. Holland.
France. Austria. Norway.
Russia. Turkey. Sweden.
Italy. Bulgaria.. Greece.
Portugal. Roumania.
Belgium. Switzerland.
Servia. Denmark.
Montenegro. Spain.
There’s fighting in three continents; and,
reckoning New Guinea as part of a fourth,
America is left as the only one that hasn’t
smelt burning powder.
“Suburban Strategist”: One week Meso-
potamia is the whole circus, and the West-
ern Front might as well be a Sundav-school
picnic for all the attention it gets. The next
week Mesopotamia is switched off without
explanation while the Italians enjoy the lime-
light. The Italians in their turn have to go
out and fight in the dark while something of
very little importance is said about the Rus-
sians, who have been belting away all the
time as hard as any of the team. Presently
the North Sea pours in, and there is naval
gunfire in every paragraph—the same scrap
of gunfire used over and over again. What
we really want and would gladly pay tup-
pence for is a daily paper that would frankly
focus the whole war in this fashion:—
General War Summary.
Western Front: Two mine explosions. Artillery
duels.
Eastern Front: No news of importance.
Mesopotamia: Slight British withdrawal.
North Sea: Destroyer action. Usual neutral reports
big action.
England: Zeppelin raid. Two cows killed.
Egypt: Desert tribesmen getting chased every-
where. British yeomanry out all night.
Africa: Vague reports of unimportant bush-fight-
ing.
Germany: Everybody hungry, disgusted and insol-
vent. Kaiser suffering and isolated. Crown Prince
found dead again with burgling tools in his posses-
sion.
Roumania: Now only waiting for shipment of
whisker pomade to start fighting for the Allies.
General: Belgian, Servian and Montenegrin armies
re-equipped and stronger than ever. Previous reports
that the Huns were massacring them were all mis-
prints. Should have read “massaging.”
“F.N.T.”: Melbourne is uot to have any
women police—yet. Some time ago a
women’s league at Ballarat sent a one-
woman deputation to Premier Peacock, ask-
ing him to appoint a Jane Hop or two to
pursue the soldier engaged in duck-hunting
on the shores of Lake Wendouree, and sepa-
rate him from his duck if the occasion
seemed to demand it. Nothing was done.
Then the executive of the National Council
of Women wrote to Chief Secretary Donald
McLeod, suggesting a trial of the new uni-
form. Now a letter from Callaway, Under-
secretary. has briefly informed the N.C.W.
that “policewomen are considered unneces-
sary.” John IL, it seems, has all the tact
required to settle any little trouble that may
happen on his beat —even though, in order
to get results, he has to knock the trouble
on the head and bring it to the watch-house
in a cab.
THE FORTUNATE FAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(A sort of snort of discontent inspired by familiar-
ity with the prominent items in many recent
theatrical entertainments, and with the conspicuous
features of most frivolous picture films.)
Because I am exceeding lean
It is my fate the livelong day
To toil at occupations mean
For scarce appreciable pay ;
The while the world hurls favors at
Those brainless creatures who are fat,
I wear my hair outside my hat.
My ribs wear gutters in my shirt,
My chiv is like a hen’s, no mirth
Is mine; but, w'ere I fat, small hurt
Could come to me- from drought or dearth.
Upon the stage a person’s bluff
Succeeds in any kind of stuff
If he (or she) is fat enough.
And, for the movies, endless quests
Are still maintained for bloated Gog,
Or any man whose form suggests
The leading virtue of the hog.
To-day fat calves are highly priced,
Ar.d, gorged with food and liquors iced,
The Prodigal is sacrificed!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
Business, Robbery, etc,
The Prodigal Son wouldn’t have got any
fatted calf if he had lived in these times.
The other day a Mangana (Tas.) farmer cut
37.11 b. of veal from an 11-months-old infant
and sold it at 7d. per lb. Then he collected
£lO 9s. 9d., without counting what he got
for the skin.
“F.H.R.”: If McKay, of Sunshine, will
make an axe suitable for suckering stumps
and trees and knocking out undergrowth, and
if it will do its work as well as the American
tool does the job of cutting, he will soon have
all the Australian trade. The axes we buy for
this work have a rounded edge to the head-
piece, and a few weeks of bashing wears this
so much rounder and smoother that it is
useless for anything but chopping. We
want an axe not too heavy, with a spiked
headpiece that will stand a bit of work, and
in any bush store there’s a shilling apiece
more waiting for it than the American brand
is bringing to-day. A hole bored in the
top end of the head that would take a set
screw would be a good idea.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : The night-owl in Syd-
ney or Melbourne who consumes a plate of
oysters and his final bottle of beer, and rolls
home with a cray under his arm and 2M.
change out of 2s. 6d., would get the shock
of his life if he operated in Buenos Aires. The
other night I succumbed to the lure of the
midnight cray in the Argentine capital, and
the resulting financial statement stood like
this :
i doz. oysters (1.20) .. 2s. Od.
4 cray (grilled) (4.50) .. 7s. 6d.
[The B.A. cray comes from
.Tuan Fernandez, on the other
side of the Andes, where the
Dresden struck trouble.]
1 bottle beer (Inglese) (1.00) Is. Bd.
Total .. lls. 2d.
And yet people are howling about the cost
of living in Australia !
* * * *
“F.II.”: To “S. & Co.” (B. 27/4/16),
who want a suitable advertising-name for
their knitted bedsocks, I recomment
lIOTSOX as an unavoidable eye-catcher.
Once the eye of the “prospect” is snared,
the rest should be easy, what with the bitter
weather and all this talk of cold Here
is a neat three-liner for the Agony Column.
“Don’t send him a white feather. Louise.
Forward a pair of lIOTSOX. They keel
the feet warm.”
* * *
Oscar Gordon, of Lindisfarne (Tas.), has
suggested to the local State War Counci
that fishing could provide for a lot 0
returned soldiers. Gordon, who has dabble
in the business, says there is a pot of
in running fish-manure and oil works i
double harness with fish-catching and pi<?'
serving. There is plenty of material abou ,
he says, and gives in detail two months woi
of a man and his two boys in a five-to
motor-boat. Their total catch was <9 to 1 !*-
worth £l4l Is. lid.; and don’t forget the
ha’penny.
FARMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I always fancied farming, and loved it from afar-
It seemed a pastime charming, with pleasures nought
could mar—
To plough a field and crop it, and, ere the year
grew old,
To take the yield and swap it for countless bits of
gold ;
To lie and bask in summer, and watch the busy bee
And know the little hummer was working hard for
me;
To gaze on sheep and cattle, the while my stars I
thank
That every pound of fat’ll enrich me at the bank.
No more of sordid mining, of golden hopes that fail•
The beacon true is shining, I'll follow in its trail!
And so I chucked the stamper that made so loud a
noise,
Yet oft had placed a damper upon my dreamed-of
joys
To come from clean-ups splendid, from Nature’s
golden store,
But always sadly ended, as all such dreams before;
I gaily waved a formal good-bye with flippant hand,
Cheered by the wealth abnormal I’d farmer from the
land ;
Bright were the rays that glittered to tempt me to
the soil,
And mourn the years I’d frittered in silly, ill-paid
toil!
With fearless steps and eager I hastened up the track
Where never clean-ups meagre set blissful plans
aback.
But now I sit and sadly review the days of old,
And wonder why so madly I swallowed what was
told
About the life bucolic, where man’s main duty lay
In watching lambkins frolic and pretty piglets
play;
While fatted stock grew fatter and splendid crops
grew rank,
With life’s most urgent matter the visits to the *
bank
To get the spoils invested in gilt-edged bond and
stock,
So that one’s fortune rested upon a solid rock.
Fantastic, frenzied fiction! In boiling oil I’d slay
Those lying fiends whose diction my mind had
power to sway.
What recked they of the contest with rabbits,
drought and weed,
Of crops so poor a conquest they scarce could pay
for seed ;
Of pigs that lived to madden, of fowls that never
laid,
Of tons of things to sadden, but very few that paid;
Of dreary, weary neighbors, on earth’s fair face a
blot,
Who talked but of their labors, and all the woes
they’d got;
Of bees that made no honey, but owned a fearsome
sting,
And were, much like one's money, forever on the
wing?
I’ve found it far too charming, I want to sell and
flee —-
Let farmers stick to farming, it’s not the game for
me!
N.S.W.
QUIDAM.


'
4m
:> ■
The Cosy Way
on a Winters Day!
Use Radiators
Why sit and shiver in office or
home when a turn of a switch
will send a warm, comfortable
glow through the room P
a
We have in stock G.E. Radiators in-
various sizes and patterns. Let us
demonstrate to you the value of this
modern electric comfort.
0
“Mazda House,’ Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.),, Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE—CENTRAL 2646, 2647; CITY 9579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd,, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
(Mi
kvl
sJCP
See how easy it is!
You merely rub a wet cloth
on a cake of Bon Ami,
getting d white lather,
which you daub all over
the glass. In about a min-
ute it is as dry as a bone.
You wipe it off with a soft,
dry cloth, and all the dirt
and grime comes off at the
same time.
In America, which has been
the home of Bon Ami for
twenty-five years, practi-
cally everybody cleans win-
dows and mirrors this way.
Bon Ami is used in more homes
there than any other cleaner. It is
quite different from scouring soap
—it will not scratch. It is for all
the finer kinds of polishing and
cleaning. It has a special field of
usefulness all by itself.
At your grocers. 6d.
‘ There is nothing else like it.
L CI_
Famous since the early
days of Queen Victoria.
J/f CgptiOating
Suggestion of Sweetness
surrounds the patriotic woman who uses LUCE’S
EAU-DE-COLOGNE —celebrated for its refreshing
fragrance. In the sick-room, for the bath, or when
suffering from headache, its restorative virtues are
unsurpassed.
ORIGINAL
Eaude-Cologne
@>ritisJ3. azzoCS&esr
First made in Jersey in the early days of
Queen Victoria, it is still prepared by the
same exclusive methods, and its pre-
eminence is proved by numerous Gold
Medals and Highest Awards won in
competition with leading British
and Continental Makers.
Of all Stores, Chemists and Perfumers,
Is. 6d. to 21s. per bottle.
Australasian Agents:
J. C. GAMBLES & CO.,
Commerce House, MELBOURNE.


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Hand
Mirror, Plain Design, Bevelled Mirror,
85/-
A. Saunders’ Cabinet-size
Photo Frame. Embossed Gilt
Frame, 10/6.
A. Saunders’
Solid Silver Hat
Rim Brush, Ham-
mered Design, Real
Bristles, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Putt' Jar
Pure Silver-plated Lid, Hand en
graved, Crystal Cut Glass,
SPLENDID
ALL MODERATELY
PRICED.
-'•i-
-- i• «
rSaPw
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Lady’s Purse,
Plain Design, Leather Lined, £2/2/•
PRESENTS
SEND FOR OUR
CATALOGUE.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set,
9 Pieces. Plain Design, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Solid
Silver-mounted
Glove Stretcher, Plain
Handles, 6/6.
A. Saunders’ Serviette
Ring, Pure Silver-plated,
Embossed Edge, 4/6.
Solid Silver, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Sil-
ver Lady’s Hair Brush,
Engine-turned Design, Best
Hand-drawn Bristles, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver-
mounted Sewing Companion,
complete in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
14/fi. Special value.
A. Saunders’ Glove Box, Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, Silk-lined, Beautifully Embossed,
£5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
807-17 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Oak Handkerchief
Silver-plated Lettering, 10/6.
Box,
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact Best lacquer brass,
2i'in. dia., Solid Leather Case,
Printed Instructions, POSTED
22 16
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Dr.
Lamartine’s Sklent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/-. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston's Card
Tricks, 1/2. i*Hl Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, Bd., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
op Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. How to Become
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries op Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), 10d.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
8d How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train/
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/- posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
%
£
I
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in and
out of marriage. No man or woman w’ho anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new' 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted
to ANY address for EIGHT SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
gm~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-#!
Prof. Fowler’s Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.,
1/3 post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules for
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. The White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man His Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. KELLf Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/- ;
post 1/2. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan nan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 6/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio,
Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted.
Women’s Secrets, 1/- post. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical H lu *'
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret his-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degree ,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ixgersoll s '' oBK r’
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), i/»
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife. 3 6 posteu-
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boiler
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1 2 postea.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at o/b poste®.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita ■
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and > m
Cure. 1/2 posted. Webster s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 Ulus., leather, bound,
mv price 15/- post paid /why pay 3 and 4 gumea ■
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2, Dynamos an
Electric Motors, 1/2, Moore s Universal As.
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clot
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs /words andl music
complete), 1/6 posted. The
Paine, posted Bd, WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
cheap Book Depot, 67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney


Put it where the pain comes!
Sore Throat
Pneumonia
Sprains
Chest Colds
Backache
Pleurisy
Bronchitis
Neuralgia
Rheumatism
Quinsy
Neuritis
Lumbago
Complete relief from the pain caused by diese and other ailments no matter
of how long standing—follows the application of Themogene. Thermogene
is absolutely safe —suitable for both young and old. It is sure in action
and easy to apply. It stimulates the soothing inner warmth of Nature
and brings to the affected part an increased supply of health and invigor-
ating blood to battle with and take away the foreign irritating substance.
Its comforting warmth brings new life and strength to the aching part.
mDDIN
The joint that is tdrobbing, the chest that is
racked with coughing, the back, the head, or
limb that is aching with pain, will find immediate
relief when Thermogene is applied. Pain will
subside, the throbbing will cease, and the com-
forting warmth will permeate the whole affected
part. Thermogene is far superior to the old-
time poultice. It is hygienic in use, clean to
handle snd comfortable to wear: A piece
can be tacked to the underclothing, over the
.■v; •' • yfi- ,;-. . t ;• .
affected part, or applied by means of a simple
tape bandage. It can be worn night and day
without any inconvenience ory interference with
ordinary work. Thermogene is recommended
and used by Doctors and Nurses everywhere.
An unsolicited Testimonial from Driver T. Wilson,
i 249 i, A.S.C. 67, Coy, Indian Meerut Div.,
Expeditionary Force :
“ I beg to give you this testimonial from the Front regarding
the value of your remedy, Thermogene, which has been used
by me with wonderful effects. I have been very bad with
rheumatics and bad chest owing to the hard weather which we
have had to endure out here. A comrade gave me a packet of
your Thermogene Wool, and I can surely say it did me a great
deal of good, and I am pleased to recommend it to my comrades
and the public at home. “(Signed) Dr.> T. WILSON.”
Another unsolicited Testimonial :
“ The Crescent, Sutton.
“ I think you should have the following extract from a letter
1 have just received from the firing line. We sent your
wadding to my brother, and he writes thus :
“ ‘ I will wrap the Thermogene Wool around my big toes the
first time we are allowed to take our boots off. The wool
you sewed inside my belt before I came out completely cured
the pain in my back, and I have had no return of it.’
- - “ E. BEST.”
% %
&
"\C
,V-
At all Chemists 1/3 per Box.
FREE.
Write for illustrated
book on Thermogene
treatment, which tells
how to get the best results.
) postcard to-day toThermogene
5 & 7, Barrack Sreet, Sydney,
Send a
Bureau,
N.S.W.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
FASSETT & JOHNSON,
5 & 7, Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured by :
THERMOGENE Co., Ltd.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, Eng.
nlfl“
m
eS
i«
mT
35 W
D ro€
assets*
BRITISH OWNED & BRITISH MADE by BRITISH
LABOUR


ChUNDER” TAKHS A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
\
m
M:
m
mm
m
m
&
0k
r*^
88 t*'
4* } .
J'
:ir
>s
»
W
w&
©8
%
«sr
,8
s-;
83
To I
•x
Yl
%
,8
&f : :
8>8«S
-,• .
88
88
%?
>?>
88,8
Bvr
,8
M"
8S
%
■y--:
W:
03" . -V« .-'
C ':,OSW£-
©
8
T,
8
31
8'
m
:«i
3*
ifg
ye
Si
mm
%e>
<8
s*
SS§§|l|
• v ">
-8 £
88
3®
8
; •;■
8
8.
gBs
m
m.
t!S
s.
■Ssi
••:j
88
'/•V-
-85
88
X-3r'-
iX .<
88
B#^
jaS*
m
typ--'/\:
y-
zm
fV
8
’■
mm*
y
8S
m
> ;v'-
8-
--Ac
5BS 1
V
: ; 8:;
8
-8.
i-
m*.
■
H
■v--.
sZCk
v/fi,
ms:
7'
•" 3 •
y.
■&.
Wi
mi
j&
7t
■37
r.>'<
r->
4T-
*
irfS?
■ i ''
- :•■:-•
':.,8
Msjg#?
ss*
.^B,
m.
-.W±
'-■ -T
-v:
P
-3 :
/j
?*V Zj* *
i
' y±,'/-
.
.8
*
/C
m-
-8V
.->-
a
V
-<-: r
m
eigv
3#;
0
-r, y>
:
r-
#B
'*s
8
r*»
. I .V v
m
■pigmm’»&
&
* 8\
**
DJ A^7
HN
r >B
V* ) . s-/
<6
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Crawls about the
Mountains too.
When the foe
Cannot be found
Chunder takes
Look around.
a
With the Bear and
Dog he hops
Round the snowv
j
Mountain tops. '
Presently—
4 ‘See, there they are!
•. i 4
t
“COBRA’ sights them
o
Prom afar.


The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited The Royal Bank of Australia Limited
THE FORTY-SIXTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Forty-sixth Ordinary General Meeting, held at the Bank, 126
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at noon on Friday, 28 tli April, 1916.
REPORT.
The Directors be? to submit to the Shareholders their Forty-sixth Report, with a Balance-sheet and
Statement of Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended 31st March, 1916, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current,
tax on note circulation, income taxes, land taxes, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts,
the net profit amounted to £27,146 3 2
Brought forward from 30th September, 1915 8,704 7 2
£35,850 10
Your Directors propose to pay out of the half-yearly profits the following dividend: —
On preference shares, at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum .. .. .. £10,641 10
On ordinary shares, at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum .. .. .. 4,733 5
The balance of the half-year’s profits they recommend to be applied as follows:
To Reserve Fund (making it £260,000) 10,000 0
, Officers’provident fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,000 0
’ Increase amount now at the credit of profit and loss account, making it .. 9,475 14
£35,850 10 4
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the 29th April, and at the branches on
receipt of advice.
The Forty-sixth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the head office of the Com-
pany 126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Friday, the 28th day of April, 1916, at noon.
By order of the Board. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
Melbourne, 19th April, 1916.
BALANCE-SHEET OF
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1910.
(Including London office to 29th February, 1916.)
Dr.
To Capital paid-up, viz.:—
31,184 Preference
Shares paid in
cash to £9 15s.
per share .. £304,044 0 0
77,278 Ordinary
Shares of £4 ss.
each, paid in
cash to £1 15s.
per share .. 135,230 10 0
£439,280 10 0
Reserve Fund 260,000 0 0
’’ Profit and Loss 25,850 10 4
„ Notes in circulation ..
~ Bills in circulation
~ Balances due to other banks. .
~ Government Deposits—•
Not bearing in-
terest, £78,687
12s. Id. ; bear-
ing interest,
£3 9 1,0 6 0
17s. Id.
£469,748 9 2
„ Other Deposits,
Rebate and in-
terest Accrued —-
Not bearing
i n t erest,
£ 1,8 0 7,4 9 9
16s. 4d. ; bear-
ing interest,
£ 2,1 3 9,9 8 7
os. 4d.
3,947,486 16 8
£725,131 0
18,525 0
292,697 10
1,476 4
4,417,235 5
4
0
8
4
10
£5,455,065 1 2
To Contingent Liabilities, as per
contra .. .•• . . £177,168 1 5
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian notes
and cash at
bankers . . £924,597 4 4
~ Money at call
in London . . 30,000 0 0
„ British Wa r
Loan Debentures
at £96 15s. per
cent., £137,493
16s. lid.
„ Commonwealth
of Australia
War Loan De-
bentures, Vic-
toria Govern-
ment stock and
debentures,
Met ropolitan
Board of Works
and municipal
debentures,
£74,696195. 6d. 212,190 16 5
„ Bills and re-
mittances i n
transitu and in
London.. .. 661,261 17 1
~ Notes and bills
of other banks 2,050 10 0
„ Balances due
from other banks 38,571 17 0
„ Stamps. . . . 1,524 16 7
£
I ~ Real estate, consisting of bank
premises..
! ~ Other real estate
j ~ Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad or doubtful debts
1,870,197 1 5
189,193 10 10 i
8,244 13 0
3,387,429 15 11
£5,455,065 1 2
Liabilities of customers and
others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra . . £177,168 1 5
To Current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, etc.) .. £30,690 2 3
„ Note, income and land taxes .. 3,692 0 8
Transfer to Reserve Fund . . 10,000 0 0
„ Balance .. . • • • • • 25,850 10 4
£76,232 13 3
By Balance brought forward. .
~ Gross profits for the half-year,
after allowing for interest accrued
on deposits, rebate on bills current
and making provision for bad and
doubtful debts
£ 8,704 7 2'
67,528 6 1
£76,232 13 3
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance .. •• •• ..£260,000 0 0
£260,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward.. .. £250,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss .. 10,000 0 0
£260,000 0 0
DINNEFORDS
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
~IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S"
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Buy the Ring NOW —
Diamonds will be scarce.
£>GAG E/Vj^^y.
a
C
y
CdSr
Every new Design,
every conceivable
Pattern in
Betrothal Rings
stocked by
STEWART
DAWSON’S.
There are two reasons for this advice: One
is the impending scarcity of Diamonds avail-
able for distribution from the World’s centres
of supply. The other is that in the matter
of selection the Treasure House can place
before you the finest assortment of Diamond
Engagement Rings in the Commonwealth.
Send for
OUR HANDSOME BOOK OF
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
which contains the Ring-size Card for order-
ing by Post.
5-DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT
RINGS.
Selected Stones, in 18et. Gold and
Platinum, £5 55., £6 10s., £7 10s.,
£8 10s., £lO 10s., etc.
STEWART DAWSONS
Strand Corner, 41* GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FIFTY=SIXTH REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 27th April, 1010.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance-
sheet and Statement of Accounts for the Half-year ending 31st March, duly audited am
certified. .
The net profits, after providing for a Bonus to the Staff (including
£7916/5/7 brought from last half-year) amount to . . .. •• ..£27,401
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.:—
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum . .
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £252,500)
And to carry forward the balance
9 11
. £12.000 0 0
. 7.500 0 0
. 7,901 911
By order of the Board,
£27,401 9 11
H. T. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year Ending 31st March, 1916.
Including London Branch figures to 7th February, 1916.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 Shares of £4
each .. ..£2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed —
30,000 shares of £4
each .. ..£1,200,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up 300,000 0 0
To Reserve Fund .. 245,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss
Account .. 27,401 9 11
£572,401 9 11
To Notes in Circulation .. .. 891 0 0
To Bills in Circulation .. .. 143,182 5 5
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest .. .. £49,766 5 2
Bearing interest 481,911 15 10
. 531,678 1 0
To Other Deposits—Rebate and In-
terest Accrued—
Not bearing in-
terest . . £949,536 17 11
Bearing interest 1,077,273 14 10
2,026,810 12 9
To Balances due to other Banks .. 54,682 3 7
£3,329,645 12 8
To Contingent Liabilities as per Contra 264,516 0 0
£3,594,161 12 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
ASSETS.
Cr.
By Coin, Bullion,
Australian Notes,
and cash at
Bankers . . £747,817
By Notes and Bills
of other Banks . . 1,958
By Balances due
from other Banks 2.948
By Bills and Remit-
tances in transit,
and payable in
London . . 258,345
By Government, Mu-
nicipal, and other
Public Stocks,
Debentures and
Funds . . . . 166,988
By Stamps .. 904
By Real Estate, con-
sisting of —
Bank Premises . . . . ■ . 80,000 0 0
By Bills Discounted and other Ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts . . 2,065,633 8 9
By Bank Furniture, Fittings, Sta-
tionery, etc. . . . . • • 5,050 0 0
£3,329,645 12 8
By Liabilities and Securities of
Customers and others in respect
of Contingent Liabilities as per
Contra . . . . • • • • 264,516 0 0
3 0
8 11
14 4
pi >3 n
£3,594,161 12 8
To Salaries, Rent, Income and Land
Taxes, and Other Charges .. .. £18,396
To Balance ~ .. .. .. 27,401
4 10
9 11
£45,797 14 9
..£24,916 5 7
By Balance at 30th Sept., 1915
Less Dividend declared
30th October, 1915 £12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
FuncP . . . . 5,000 0 0
By Balance carried down
By Profits for the half-year, after de-
ducting interest accrued on deposits
and rebate on bills current, less
reserves for bad and doubtful debts
17,000 0 0
£7,916 5 7
37,881 9 2
£45,797 14 9
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT
To Balance .. .. .• •• £245,000 0 0
£245,000 0 0
By Balance at 30th Sept., 1915 .. £210,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account . . . . t • . . 5,000 0 0
£245,000 0 0
z.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A British Triumph!
¥
The Popular
GRAMOPHONE
The “Gramophone,” which is indisputably the World’s VERY REST
Talking Machine, is an entirely British production. “Gramophone”
factories are to-day producing munitions —“Gramophone” mechanics
and artistes are serving the colors.
But so great are the facilities of the “Gramophone” factories, and so
great the multitude of artistes, that the standard of production to-day
remains quite, as high as ever.
THE “TASMAN” GRAMOPHONE.
If you want a Talking Machine
buy a “Gramophone”—the Brit-
ish production.
Model illustrated is The Oak
Tasman, Hornless, sold at
£l6/10/-; also in Satin-finished
Mahogany, £l7/17/-. Horn
instruments from £7/15/-
Instrument catalogue, record
lists, and name of nearest,
accredited dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.


S YDM EZ.V - . rN.SW.
The Wentworth Garden, with its beautiful surroundings, is
ideal for Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and
Wedding Parties, and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors r<> Sydney will lind the Wentworth Hotel most popular,
central and up to date in all modern conveniences, including telephones
in bedrooms, communicating with the Exchange.
The Appointments, Linen and Service are superb, and compare more
than favorably with the best Hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN, Manageress.
The SIGNS of SUPERIORITY
in P.lue and Black Serges, Coatings.,
and Dress materials are proclaimed
by the trade-marks here illustrated.
Every yard of
Genuine FOX Serges
bears these trade-marks. Ask for
“Fox” Serges—look for the trade-
marks—insist on these guarantees of
quality.
Manufactured by FOX Brothers & Co. Ltd., Somerset,
hug. If you cannot obtain Fox Serges locally write
the agents. Stogdale Sons Pty. Ltd., Box ISO 2
C.P.0., Sydney, who will tell you the nearest store-
keeper stocking it.
POLITICAL
POINTS
During last financial year the Australian
Post Office went £029,722 to (he bad. In
19.14 the deficit was £501,430; in 1913
£407.102. So in three years this awful
monument to Muddle and Loaf had to be
provided with £1.538,280 to dodge the bailiff,
which means a charge on the community for
all time of about £05,000 a year.
HISTORY IN THE FUTURE.
TEACHER: "Who was it that won the great
war for us?”
PUOIL: "Bill Adams.”
TEACHER: “ You're thinking of Waterloo. Try
again.”
PUPIL: "MU Hughes.”
The latest demand of the anti-conscrip-
tionists is that a referendum shall be taken
on the question. Well. The Bulletin
doesn't mind, though, seeing that 250.000
or so men have put on khaki and most of
them have gone to the Front, it does look a
bit like asking somebody to judge the beer
by tbe sediment in the barrel.
The place in the Australian constitution
occupied by swine has been further illumi-
nated by the High Court, assisted by Costs.
The hog industry in N. S. Wales being
threatened with an outside market, the Hol-
man Government issued a ukase forbidding
the pig to go into Bananaland, that being a
foreign, alien country. Whereupon certain
persons who convert pig into .human food
brought action to restrain Ma, and after
prolonged argument the Court said Ma was
wrong and mustn't do it any more. What
is going to happen next Heaven alone
knows, but unless Ma asserts her sovereign
rights and grabs pigs as she formerly
grabbed chaff, it looks as if Bananaland will
get Northern Iliver bacon at the expense of
the workers in N. S. Wales, and that is very
horrible to think of.
RECOGNISED.
HANS : “ Der Australians haf gome!”
FRITZ: “ How yon nos know flat?”
HANS: “Haf you not cars?”
Frank Clarke, M.L.C., who lately resigned
from the Vic. State Parliamentary recruiting
committee because of the unsatisfactory
position in regard to voluntary enlistment,
produced a sensational argument during a
recent meeting at Northcote. He cited the
case of a soldier who had been wounded
five times, had had enteric and pneumonia,
and still was asked to go back to the Front.
Conscription, of course, would mean that a
new, trained, hardy recruit would be ready
to go, instead of there being any necessity
to order this battered hulk to face further
trials. So far nobody at Northcote, or any-
where else, has had the nerve to argue with
Clarke about this phase of the matter.
Vic. Labor is already choking over its
anti-conscription effort at the recent State
conference. Frank Anstey. the fiery and
outspoken M.H.R. for Bourke, embedded in
his seat as safely as a pearl in a 20-fathom
oyster, is alleged to have said: "I am not
totally opposed to conscription,” and a mem-
ber of a subsequent deputation of anti-con-
scriptionists to the Defence Minister com-
plained that Anstey had said that ‘‘Con-
scription of men is a certainty.” So, if the
right sort of conscription measure is intro-
duced in the Ileps., it seems likely that
Anstey will be found voting for it. Where-
upon. unless the P.L.C. once more hurriedly
wriggles, a Laborite will have to be put up
against Anstey to get a sure licking at
the next Federal elections.
William McMillan's appearance in the
conscription controversy recalls old times,
lie was Treasurer of X. S. Wales in the
days when the Parliamentary Labor party
was being incubated in a hotbed of the most
serious strikes the country had known. They
were the days when artillery was dispatched
to Newcastle (Bruce Smith knows some-
thing about that), when mounted troops
were sent scouring the Queensland back-
country, and Colonel Tom Price was in-
structing the military in Victoria to “fire
low and lay ’em out.” John Hancock, the
earliest of the new generation of Labor
M’s.P., summed up what was the natural-
enough Labor view of the military. “I hate
the sight of a red-coat,” he said. Laborites
more or less unconsciously detested “mili-
tarism” from that moment; and argument
has hard work against prejudice. Of course
the attitude is illogical. Had universal ser-
vice prevailed in the days when Tom Price
wanted ’em to lire low, there might have
been something in it. As it is, the anti-
conscription Laborites merely want to pre-
serve the system that prevailed in Tom
Price's day.
“Yarra B.”: Official Labor in Victoria is
past praying for. At the recent conference
of the P.L.C., delegates backed down on a
previous intimation that members of the
Catholic Federation and the L.O.L. must get
out of the Labor movement; and they
climbed down simply because the Catholic-
Federation waved a big stick. Yet
the same conference passed a tremen-
dous resolution directing all P.L.C.
branches and unions “to select candidates to
contest the next election in opposition to all
Labor members who vote in favor of con-
scription.” Now will the P.L.C. put ice on
its head for a minute and consider whether
any Laborite could be put up to win Ballarat
or Corio from Private McGrath or Corporal
Ozanne, supposing those two soldiers come
back from the war as conscriptionists? And
where on earth is the Laborite to shove Dr.
Maloney off his Melbourne perch, or push
llampson out of the Bendigo seat, whatever
those members might say about conscrip-
tion? That Labor has never been able to
get a majority in Victorian politics is chiefly
due to the stupidity of the P.L.C.; and the
new, clumsy resolution, while it hasn’t got a
hope of winning so much as one new seat, is
calculated to squeeze out men who if they
went would certainly take their old seats
with them.
Billy Hughes the other day burst out
into the usual rhapsody about the British
Navy. “Stretching away into the far hori-
zon,” William says, “are great, grey shapes
seemingly endless. I have seen the invul-
nerable navy beyond whose ample cover the
Empire has rested since the outbreak of
war. and still rests in perfect security.”
What a beautiful spurt of hot-air to come
from a little man who, after giving it out
that he was going to England by the Oster-
ley, scooted mysteriously to America, and
approached England under the shelter of the
flag of the United States!
Apart from the enormous amount sent
out of the country for fruit essences and
flavors, the sums expended on dragging food
to Australia are paralysing. The bill for
butter last year was £180,557, for cheese
£lO,OOO, for eggs £3509. Of potted, smoked,
preserved and otherwise embalmed fish Aus-
tralia consumed over 13,000 tons, in addi-
tion to large quantities of honey, bacon,
animal _jellies, game, exotic poultry, and
over 2.500,0001 b. of milk in several dis-
guises. The prime cost of all this animal
product was £1,265,065; the cost to the
consumer at least £2,000,000. And while
these proceedings were being enacted. Aus-
tralia was slaying droves of animals and
heaving them into ships. Foodstuffs of vege-
table origin ranging from biscuits to lollies,
and from hay to preserved carrots, called for
£3,656,920. By the time this mass of food
was consumed Australians had parted with
about £5,000,000. Then various lunatic-
politicians approached the foreigner and
borrowed it all back, whereby the self-deny-
ing Australian was able to get a job and
earn more cash to buy potted fish and dried
carrot.
THESE UNGRATEFUL LANDLORDS.
THE LADY (to the landlord): "Well, I
wouldn't grumble if I were you. You
wouldn't have got even that much if my
old man hadn't sold the bad; door.'’
There is far too much talk about whether
conscription is "necessary,” and by "neces-
sary ’ they mean whether enough men can be
cajoled or coerced or otherwise persuaded
into enlisting without it. It is quite possible
that enough money might be got by "volun-
tary" methods to pay the wages of the police
who look after our lives and property in
times of peace; but even if it could* be.
would that be a good enough reason for not
making contribution to the revenue com-
pulsory ?
It has just been decided bv the Vdrdv,
Insolvency. Court, "regretfully.” that h
( rown still has the right to nut it- f the
» «w>to, .-ol blX p ; B r,j"
• •ase the insolvent owed the Advance-
Settlers Board £450. It held his ' • t °
for £166. and, as everything else lmT'
sessed came to only £llO, it claimed ti
right to collar the lot. and leave the n
creditors nothing. Judge Bussell
was m accordance with the latest
decisions’; and the local law \L tlsh
taken the trouble to say that where r DeVer
ment goes in for a business deal and snT‘*
a bad mark, it should stand in kes
other creditor. Jl,st llke any
What a choice piece of bunkum was the
cable received last week announcing that
Hughes had been officially notified that ti
Baris conference had been fixed for J une -
and that "lie regards it as imperative that
he should remain here [London], but leave
himself in the hands of the people of
data”! Did Hughes „ r the abe l„„ a !;
suppose that we would rush take ,
endum on the momentous questionv ti!
plain truth is that "the people of Australia”
don t care a darn whether Hughes eoos '
the conference or not, but they reckon that
it ,s about time he came back and did some
of the work that awaits him here. 11L
THE CHAIN GANG.
Let our Australian Labor movement boldly pro-
nounce that not any particular nationality, but “the
unity of Labor," is the hope of the world.
— Anti-Conscription manifesto.
THE SLAVE DRIVER: “Ah. naughty,
naughty! Why do you complain? Are
you not united at last to your dear
German fellow-workers!"
All misunderstanding on the matter would
In l cleared up at once it l’earce re-christened
ir the Jaw Precautions Act.
Now it is the Hobart Chamber of Com-
merce which is wondering whether Pirate
Enterprise hasn’t longer teeth and sharper
talons than the Socialistic tiger. Anyway,
it is so sick of the freights tlemanded by the
private shipping cos., and says they are so
damaging to the development of the island,
that it wants the Government to link up with
the mainland by a State service. When he
was Postmaster-General. \Siah Thomas pro-
posed the same thing and a bit more of it;
and from the row that followed you would
have thought the mild “local preacher” was
murdering somebody’s baby.
In his budget yarn the other day Federal
Treasurer lliggs said the estimated income
<>f the people of Australia was £200,000.(1(11)
per annum, and he was proud of it. But,
apart from the fact that they have some
interest for the tax-gatherer, such figures
have no meaning ; and as the basis of any
idea tegarding the financial position of the
nation they are useless. If Higgs took a
bucket of water and handed it to the first
man in a line of (say) a hundred men, each
armed with an empty receptacle, and
directed that the liquid be poured from
bucket to bucket all along the line and a
tally kept of each man's bucketful, the total
measurement of wet at the last bucket would
be (say) 300 gallons. And if it was all
passed back there would be 000 gallons;
and the figures would reveal the existence of
such a vast quantity of water that everyone
could have a bath and frequent drinks. But
if someone dropped his bucket there would
be no bath and no drink. And that is the
pedigree of the £200,000,000 income. The
only thing of any consequence is what w*‘
produce; and from that has to be deducted
the amount we pay away to the foreign
money-lender. Actually the bigger our "in-
come” the worse off we may be, because a
few producers may be supporting an intoler-
able number of parasites.
OUR SAVRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Warwick Brooke, a member of the House of Com-
mons, suggests that W. M. Hughes would be willing
to join the Cabinet if a sufficiently honorable position
were Offered. It would be easy to find him a
seat. —Cable item.
Take him, take all. For Umpire we can spare
That silver tongue that makes the Welshmen cheer.
We, who at stern Gallipoli could dare
The Turkish fury, may still manage here
To reap our crops and make the jumbuek grow
While he stands forth jaw foremost to the foe.
In sacrificial mood we lay oirr hearts
Upon the reeking altar in this hour;
And, well content, we fill our smaller parts
While he stalks on to high, bell-toppered power;
Here, where the cow the solemn landscape chews,
We yield all claim to ownership in Hughes.
Soon shall the Kaiser tremble on his throne,
His knees grown limp at that dread thing he hears,
Those words like mines of fierce destruction sown
That make the nation angry through its tears.
On, on! The tempest of his fiery breath
Thrills Asquith till he yells for blood and death!
Australia shall not bind that lofty soul,
The English atmosphere may suit him best;
How should our narrow honors be his goal,
Our small ambitions be his manhood’s test?
There he is great. His zeal can scarcely fail
To win the plaudits of the Daily Mail.
Compared with such vast praise our voices seem
No more than mutton bleating in the night.
Our nation’s simple promise and our dream
Could scarcely keep such fire as his alight.
We give him up. Let dukes and princes take
The hand the Billjim lumper loved to shake.
Without him'somehow we may muddle through.
Our wealth of strikes and kindred joys remain.
A continent's large work is still to do
And its neglect some other may explain.
Oh, give him tongue-room in your Cabinet —
l’earce and the censorship are with us yet!
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


m
PALING’S
for
Pianos and Player Pianos
& ame s
CHAPPELL PIANOS.
There cn.ll be no doubt about the durability of these
famous pianos when you consider that “CHAPPELLS”
have been making - high-grade Pianos in England since
1812. A personal inspection is invited. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
ESTEY PIANOS. .
These Pianos are magnificently toned and contain
new features in construction that undeniably enhance
their durable qualities. First made in 1879. Easy
Terms. May we Send you a Catalogue ?
SAMES PIANOS.
SAMES All-British Pianos have won
a distinctive place in Australian
homes on account of their sweet tone,
delightful touch and extraordinary dur-
ability. Illustrated Catalogue posted free.
Vicflor Pianos £D. Player Pianos.
The success of our VICTOR Pianos and
Player Pianos is based on honest value,
sound, solid construction and the long-
wear they are guaranteed to give.
Catalogue posted free on request.
EASY TERMS.
ESTEY ORGANS.
Like the ESTEY PIANOS these
instruments are magnificently toned, and
no better organs are made. Indeed, they
have no equal. Over 400,000 have been
made and sold. k ‘The Ester Organ
Booklet ” posted free on request.
EVERYTHING MUSICAL
can be purchased at Paling’s -Talking
Machines, Violins, Banjos, Sheet Music
and hundreds of Musical Sundries.
Catalogues are free for the asking . Please
mention what instrument you are
interested in.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.
Estd.
1853
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, USMORE.
2
X
TYRES \
t.
X
ALL BRITISH
X
x
x
2
j!
u
LS
THREE
TYRES
are made by a
special process to
withstand the ex-
cessive strain of
tropical climates
and Colonial roads.
They have proved
consistently suc-
cessful under the
most rigorous tests,
and will appeal
strongly to motor-
ists on account of
their staunch ser-
vice and quite ex-
ceptional durability
Wri/e for Booklets to —
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Stockists
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129. King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
P C 8.—60
v-
The PLUM
Prince among
Razors.
IT’S DEAD EASY
shaving with the “Plum.” All other Razors pale into
insignificance by eohiparison. You’ll stop experimenting
once you invest in
Jshe “PLUM” RAZOR
for there’s no blade- so finely tempered'.
PRICE 10 /G —POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect .order for two free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line r®akes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 80 YEARS.
:a
0
o
0
f/A
si
, %
r /<
Guard Against Substitution
The “ VALET ” blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia :
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.


As conscription is the nearest approach to
equality of sacrifice, it should be Demo-
cracy’s ideal method of defending its liber-
ties from aliens and savages, affirms that
wise spirit, King George IV. top-notch
Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Sharper, more lasting, more
shaves per blade—that is what
you get with every packet of
Gillette New Process Blades.
Take a packet home with you
to-night.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Sold everywhere, 23/6. British Made.
Write for free booklet. Agents: S.
Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney;
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
Whenever YOU visit Melbourne be sure
to stay at “Scott's.” For comfor ,
sumptuousness and convenience no otI J
hotel can compare with it. Frivate-
attendance-’phones in all rooms, and H
and Cold Water in Bedrooms.
Room or “Private-Suite” Accommodation.
SCOTTS HOTEL
Collins St Melbourne
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,’’
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Punters, who rolled up in good heart at
Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday, started out to
beat the bag, but finished up with shrunken wads.
Cumber got away with the hurdles right enough, but
the rest of the story is mainly about the old familiar
thud. Not another favorite arrived. When Hopfield
came to light in the Flying and beat Three over the
last half-furlong, maledictions were loud in the land,
for Hopfield had not been reckoned in the race, and
started at 33 to 1. This gelding is in one of the
heaviest betting stables in Australia, with Merimee,
Two Blues and others equally good, and his chances
must on the betting figures have been considered
hopeless. Three’s people have nothing to smile
about. Since coming from Victoria the nag has had
four runs and has not been further back than third
in any of them —one win, two seconds and a third.
Incidentally, the stewards at this meeting had a
lively day. Among other things they rubbed out one
jock for two months, censured a couple of others,
and told two of the hurdle-riders that cancellation
of their certificates would be recommended. Another
rider was told not to do it any more. Amidst all
these incidents the stewards put' their heads together
about 27 times, and earnestly discussed matters of
great pith and moment, as Hamlet said to George
Marlow while the Highweight Handicap was being
run at Elsinore.
Any confirmed punter who neglected to
back Duke Alwyne for the Newcastle Cup ought
to get his head read. Trainer-owner Jewell landed
a nice dry bit. Besides getting £BOO out of the
stake, Jewell was laid £lOOO to nothing by the
individual who drew the prad in a sweep. The
people behind the winner also had ample chance to
back him for a hatful of coin with very little out-
lay. He started at 10 to one against, but a week
earlier stood at 25’s in the set books. When Duke
Alwyne won the same race 12 months ago he was
the property of a Greek, N. P. Arony, who hangs
out in the Far North, but Jewell prepared him for
the event.
James McMahon, owner of Karanaud
King, which won Sydney Tattersall’s Cup, and was
second on Saturday in the Newcastle Cup, is the
eldest son of the late “Butt}'” McMahon, and is now
head of the big Sydney carrying business. In his
spare time Jimmy is a major'in the Commonwealth
military forces. In his .younger days he was some
potatoes as a Rugby footballer, being a member of
the famous Randwick Club. He many times repre-
sented the Ma State in international matches, and
after being a selector of the Union rep. teams for
years was appointed manager of the “Wallabies” who
toured Great Britain with much success in 1908-9.
He is a popular figure in the sporting world, and in
addition to being owner of Karanaud King is pro-
prietor of a breezv individuality.
**‘ * *
In winning the S.A..T.C. Goodwood Han-
dicap so jauntily little Blague almost proved the
truth of the report that he was poisoned the week
the Newmarket was run. Blague started for a New-
market Trial Stakes, at one of Melbourne’s down-
the-line meetings, and his owner laid the odds on
him to a big amount. Nevertheless the betting sug-
gested that “somebody knew something,” and
Blague ran accordingly. The “dead cert” couldn t
raise a gallop. Rumor said he was got at with a
hypodermic syringe as •he stood in his stall before
the race. Punters, by the way, have more to fear
from the injector than from the doper. The dope
comes, as a rule, from the friendly hand of a
trainer, and the fact that the gee is not on the job
can be gleaned from the stable mystery. But the
injection comes by stealth, and the stable gets no
hint of it, neither doth the jockey guess what the
’ell is the matter with his mount.
* * * *
St. Spasa and Cyklon, at Adelaide, gave
further illustrations of the inconsistency of im-
ported English horses. When he won the A.J.C.
Metropolitan 19 months ago St. Spasa appeared to
be a good one. Then he started to disimprove, and
for the next 12 months he shaped so moderatelv
that his present owner got him for 430 guineas. His
Adelaide Cup win, with 9st. up, makes him
out to be a good one again, for nothing got near
him in the last two furlongs. Cyklon, on the other,
hand, came a bad third in the Cup, after having
won the Elder Stakes brilliantly. He seems an im-
possible animal to get fit for a long journey, or to
keep in a willing mood.- Flash of Steel, a" former
stable companion of St. Spasa, has been another con-
spicuous in-and-outer. But there is yet time for
that big lump of a Britisher to develop into a stayer.
It was mentioned the other day that a
horse which had won races at unregistered meetings
was being driven about in a sulky by the trainer, in
the hope that the treatment would mend the animal’s
temper. The scheme is not an innovation. Twenty
years ago, when prizes were not nearly so big as they
are now, it was common to see ponies driven to
courses in sulkies before competing in races. The
story is told of a 13.3 called Sambo that he was
driven in a gig from Sydney to Rosehill, drawing
three men, to run in an event worth £5, and open
only to harness ponies. On arrival at the course
it was found that one other animal had arrived
to take part in the dash; but so much delay
occurred in getting the shoes off the nags that other
competitors which had been delayed on the road
turned up and went to the post.' Sambo finished
second, but a protest against the winner for being
overheight was upheld and Sambo secured the fiver.
That pony was a good performer at old Lillie Bridge
and Brighton.
* * * ♦
William Manning, the horseman who
landed into a hospital with a broken leg and other
injuries after getting a fall on a Sydney pony course
last week, has nothing to rave about in the matter
of luck. Manning not long ago resumed riding after
a spell of several months, and was just making up
for lost time in a profitable manner when his mount
toppled over another prad which had gone down.
He is one of the registered jockeys possessing a
license to ride in 14.2 races and under at the ponv
courses. Lillvman, another of the hard-working
pilots, had a spill in the same race, but escaped
harm.
* * ♦ *
“The Spreader”: It is not so long since
the folly of allowing a weight concession to geldings
in Derbies was done away with, and it is close up
to time that rich events like the Sydney and Mel-
bourne Cups that give a winning horse world-wide
advertisement were kept clear of the unsexed animal.
The knife is introduced, as a rule, because the nag’s
conformation is unlikely to appeal to buyers in the
sale ring. Therefore it would only be a fair thing
to give the owner who goes to all the trouble of pre-
paring an entire colt a measure of protection by
limiting the prize moneys that the neuter gender
can compete for. If a colt wins the Sydney Cup he
goes to the stud with credentials that are (or should
be) of some value to the owner. A gelding is useful
only while he retains his speed.
* * * *
Barfield’s victory in Q.T.C. May Day Cup
( £350) added another to the list of pots
which have boiled over this racing season. In
a field of eight there were five better favorites. Bar-
field (Bardolph-Forestelle) humped Bst. 121 b., and
was showing his tail to the rest at the judge’s end
of the 1J mile, run in 2min. 37fsec. No. Isaac
isn’t feeling the rise in the price of meat very much,
thank you.
The V.R.C. axe has chipped the Melbourne
Cup stake-money from £BOOO to £7OOO, and the
Maribyrnong Stakes from £2OOO to £l5OO. Slicing
of this sort won’t do much harm to anyone, and
there is going to be more of it directly.
Melbourne’s first jockeyette made her
appearance in the Burnley Handicap at Richmond
trotting meeting the other day, riding Snowfoot into
sixth place. Green cap, cerise and white jacket, and
divided skirt covered Bst. 41b., and enough “dead”
was carried to make up the handicap burden of
list. 101 b. The lady was Mrs. Kelly, wife of her
mount’s owner, just turned 21 and without nerves.
She has won a score of trots in the West, and wants
to have a try on the gallopers, but W.A. barred that,
and Vic. is pretty certain to do likewise.
* * * *
“Carfax” : Someone was saying something
the other day about the deal young horses get in the
training stables. I want to intrude with the remark
that in this matter there is a chance to round off the
mass of information made available every year by
turf statisticians. Much of it is not worth tup-
pence. But full particulars of what happens to the
multitude of prads which leave the sale rings would
be of value. The world hears ‘ about the winners
sired by certain horses, and knows something about
the losers. How about the rest ? Statisticians
know all about how many winners So-and-So handled.
How about the other sort ? A horse that sires a
few winners is rushed with mares, but there is no
sort of reliable evidence that, if the get of another
horse had received the same kind of deal, they would
not have been landing the bacon. Breeding is a specu-
lative business, but there is no reason why the period
between the sale and the starting post should be left
a mystery.
* * * *
“Musketoon”: It is not often that three
brothers, jockeys, ride in the one race, but it hap-
pened on the old Turon (N.S.W.) course. The jocks
were Walter, Dick and George Hfckenbotbam, and
Dick’s horse was first past the post. Walter later
on blossomed into one of the biggest trainers in
Victoria. Dick was in charge of Eyre’s Hotel in
Forbes (N.S.W.), and has for years been at Hyland’s
Hotel, Sofala. The third brother, George, died at
Orange a few days ago. It was on the Turon gold-
fields course that Starlight rode Rainbow—according
to Rolf Boldrewood.
At Wagga (N.S.W.) Cup meeting three
records for the course were put up on the first day,
including Quickberry’s Town Plate in lmin. 40sec. —
slick travelling for a country track. Same day there
were two dead heats. Next day the judge was unable
to separate Eunnv and Siientress in the Welter. Nor
could he divide them in the run off. The owners
then cut up the stake. Prince Bundong romped home
in the Cup (1 mile) in 2min. 7see., another course
record. Ikev also romped home in a motor-car with
piles of Wagga punters’ cash.
“Mujik”: Tiie Bulletin’s par. about
“the office” to back Three at Randwick on the pre-
vious Saturday reminds me. I went to a race-meeting
once with Percy, who didn’t know anything, but had
a fiver, an open mind and an eager soul. “That’s for
me,” said Percy as soon as we got into the paddock,
pointing to the first nag he saw. “I’ll have a pound
on him.” “Great Scot!” I said. “What for ? What
is it?” “Doesn’t matter what it is,” he explained.
“Always back the first horse you encounter. Best
tip in the world,” and he rushed off to deposit a quid
on Macintosh in the Hurdles. The animal belonged
to Matt O’Grady. “Any chance, Matt?” I asked.
“Not in. the wide world—unless the others fall
down.” And that’s what happened to five of them.
Matt swore horribly. Percy cashed in for a tenner
and paid for lunch. The waitress made a mistake
and served him with giblet pie instead of cold beef.
“A tip in this,” gurgled Percy as he seized the pie
and started rummaging in his racebook. “Ah, Wild
Duck—good enough—7st. 21b.—a dead bird,” and
dashing on his hat he rushed forth after Ikey again.
“How much Wild Duck?” “One hundred to 3 you,
sir,” confided the pirate (the right odds were 100
to 1). Percy took £OO to 6. That was the year
Hummer was backed for thousands to win the Gobble-
wong Handicap, and Was beaten on'the post by an
awful animal which had bolted with its rider and was
called Wild Duck. Percy collected his couple of cen-
turies and went looking for more tips. A pretty girl
gave him the glad eye. “Tip there, old bov,” i sug-
gested. “Bet yer life there is,” he agreed, and
started running his finger down the list. “Butcher
Boy—bah ! Cannibal—no good to me ! King David
not for this child. Inconstant—ah. ’lnconstancy
thy name is woman.’ There it is. Couldn’t be
plainer.” He took 50 to 10, and once more landed
the bacon. Then because I called him a fathead he
backed Abusive in the Cup, and after the brute had
won and I had borrowed a few from him he dumped
a wad on Cadger just to show me I didn’t know a
horse from a synagogue, and Cadger romped in by a
furlong. The last race was the Steeplechase. There
were no tips about, so Percy put 10s. on Snigger
Naturally Snigger fell and the poor devil of a jock
broke his neck. Whereupon Percy said the race was
a fake, and the winner should be disqualified. He
went home with nearly £5OO, left his job and
started out as a punter on his “tip” svstem. I saw
him last week, but couldn’t get away quick enough.
He got the price of three beers.
* * * *
Darcy had to wait in the ring at Svdney
Stadium on Saturday night for a full five minutes
before Alexandrescu Costica, the Roumanian, turned
up to start the argument he was imported from
America for. The rest of the proceedings were plain
farce. When Costica at last climbed through the
ropes he brought with him a face haggard and
bloodless, knees which almost refused their office, and
a heart that could almost be heard yelling to him to
bolt. “Box on,” cried Arthur Scott, the referee
and Costica promptly tumbled against Darcv, pin-
ning his arms down and hanging on for dear life
After half a minute’s hugging Scott pulled them
apart, and the stranger immediately hung on again,
while the crowd—a big one, too—nearly howled the
roof off. And so it went on. Towards the end of
the second round Darcy got a hand free and landed
on his friend’s midriff. Costica thankfully collapsed,
but the bell stopped the count. He had quit cold.
He went to recumbency in the third session, and
again had the horrible bad luck not to beat the
bell. In the fourth —and all this time he had been
too scared to put his hands up properly—he absent-
mindedly got up at nine, and taking a short jolt on
the jaw tumbled over again. Then the law, out of
pity apparently, held up its hand, and the exhibition
was over. Costica walked off amid prolonged boo-
hoos. The really wonderful thing is that he delivered
himself into the ring at all.
It seems to this writer that the time is dead-ripe
for somebody to accept responsibility for the dope
that is handed out in advance regarding imported
pugs. Either that, or for the protection of the
great Australian public there will have to be an
amendment of the law regarding quarantine, so that
these enterprising persons may before they land be
tried out by a staff of State Wallopers. This man
Costica was boomed as being something worth pay-
ing cash to see. The truth is that all the booming
was blue murder. It was the same lately with
“Roughhouse” Burns, Fred Gilmore and Knock’em-
steef Brown, and before them there were others. The
fragrant memory of Mr. Jeff Smith is also a modern
circumstance, and two recent performances by
foreign bash-merchants have left a smell that will be
hanging round for a long time. Of course a few
of the men who come along are up to specifications.
But too many are not. So, in the interests of Biff
generally, and of more deserving Australians, the
persons who are gathering the lemons should sit
down and have a prolonged think about themselves.
Incidentally they might consider the grading of the
fruit at the port of shipment. •
* * * *
Ferdinand Qnendreux and “Roughhouse”
Burns were in action at Brisbane on Saturday, and
as the cheerful stranger, who is mostly rough on his
own dial, couldn’t out the Frenchman, he got out-
pointed himself. There is something wildly humor-
ous about a pug who practises the noble art of self-
defence by putting his face where it can be assaulted,
but it must be a wearying way of making a crust.
Llew Edwards, the Welsh featherweight,
disposed of Bert Spargo in the 14th round at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday. By the 9th round
Wales had Australia well in hand. ' In the 10th and
subsequent rounds Spargo merely displayed his
ability to take a lot of punching. He gave an
excellent display with the left hand, but Edwards
boxed at a wonderful speed, using both hands quickly
and heavily. Spargo wasted a deal of energy in
missing with a right swing that often spun ' him
round like a top. Early in the afternoon the scale
showed Edwards 9st. lib. and Spargo 9st. 141 b.
Nimble and scientific boxers are invariably better
supported in Melbourne than the heavier stoushers,
and Saturday night’s affair exactly filled the bill.
Despite pouring rain there was a big crowd.
Dave Smith is again out to discover what
is going to happen to himself or somebody else, and
will confer with Mr. James Clabby on the subject at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday.
Tom Cowler. who came this way in
tow of Jim Corbett last year, and incidentally settled
Ben Doyle’s hash as a preliminarv to becoming a
white hope for a day or two in Yankeeland, is out
of the game for good. Lung trouble has him.
Whether Corbett actually thought he had a good ’un
in Cowler is pretty doubtful. To most Australians,
anyhow, he looked a long way from the kind of
thing required to damage the big nig.
PARSONS, who
recently chipped
a piece off the
100-mile motor-
cycle record.
H. Parsons is a rare daredevil in Aus-
tralian motor-cycling. Before Easter-time he was not
particularly addicted to whizzing, but the 200-mile
handicap at Mortlake (Vic.) gave him the oppor-
tunity to go. And he went. Mounted on a 7-h.p.
Harlev-Davidson, Parsons streaked over 101.7 miles
in 97min. Parsons’s four laps were remarkably even:
first, 32min.—64 m.p.h. ; second, 31min. 45sec. —
m.p.h. ; third, 33min. 17sec. —614 m.p.h. ;
fourth, 31min. 44sec. —644 m.p.h. Maintenance of
this over-a-mile-a-minute gait would have landed him
well_ inside the 200-mile figures put up in the race
by Noel Duckett (3hr. 40min. 42sec.), and previously
held by Yankee Erwin Baker (3hr. 41min.). But
the machine took ill and pulled him up.
F. W. Springfield mopped up the last of
Queensland amateur swimming championships—
440yds. in smin. 55sec., and the mile in 26min.
25 2-ssec. J. Saunders (holder of the mile title)
was second in each event. F.W. is the oldest of
the Springfield clan, who have won all the Queens-
land amateur swimming baubles at one time and
another. The family can produce enough silverware
to decorate a shop window. Sid Springfield dived
into khaki a few months ago.
Syd Ashby cut a niche in the Temple of
Fame last week when Bananaland Cyclists’ Union
endorsed his recent world’s half-mile m™ ,
65 i-Ssee. Ashby recently won The C>Zt 3 Mv° f
100yds. pedestrian championship in 11 9 = 3 Ln ‘°n
is probably the speediest amateur on and off
bike in the Northern State where the climatfi.f
everyone over 110. tn niate kills
* *
"ti! 1 sVusti alian motor-cycle record went «n
on the board recently when B. Carter of thp « U , P
with a greased-lightning flash knocked the to?’
quarter-mile figures into the dustbin with 1 ng
age of 83* m.p.h.-with wind, 10
wind, 11 sec. Record rushing on the
now reached the hair-raising stage. hlzzer has
The law has an effective way of d Pqlin „
with speed maniacs in Los Angeles (U SA V ft
motor-car owner or cyclist exceeds the speed iw!
or fractures any other by-law the beak chafest
off the premises and gives the conveyance
days in quod. The prospect of losing his madiin!
is more of a detriment to a '■peed-lovincr "J! 0 • e
than a fine as high as Kosciusko. 1 S maniac
Sixteen millions of motor-tyres is tlii
year’s estimated output of the rubber factories If
\ ankeeland. No winder the motor industrv ;
making millionaires. The majority of this
Yankee tyres are the straight-sided, detachahl!
variety for use on a demountable rim that is 2
on by an outside flange. The wired or beaded cmi?
for use on fixed rims, which took two strong men
and a boy to take off and put on, are almost H,;,™
of the past. The average motorist goes out to eni?v
himself these days—not to take violent exercise with
wheels. “
* * *
Arthur B. Postle, Australia's speediest
professional ped. until long-legged Jack Donaldson
happened along, is still too good for the voting ’uns
At Maryborough last week he galloped over
75yds. in a yard under “evens,” but even that failed
to gather the cash. Although he is getting alone-
in years, handicappers refuse to take any risks with
the old ’un.
* * * *
“G.T.”: A triangular running match
between a woman, a man and a dog took place at
Gurney's grounds at Flemington (Vic) the
other night. The whippet was on 'scratch
G. Taylor had 33yds., and Miss Sumner 48vds’
They are all champions in their class. The distance
was 100yds., and lovely woman arrived first Inches
only separated the three at the tape, the whippet
being last. Incidentally McNoses of course shared
in the lady’s victory, the betting being 6 to 4 on
the animal, evens the man, and 10’s against the
winner. Time 6 9-10 sec.
W ith only four teams playing senior
football in Melbourne it doesn't matter which wins-
the ultimate result rests with the finals solelv’
Wherefore the barrackers refrain from bellowing and
the small boy has the noise to himself. Two of him
by the way, provided more joy at the Carlton-’Wood
match last Saturday than all the players. They got
into holts at half-time over nothing in particular,
and gave a pleasing exhibition of stoush for a dozen
rounds while some of Our Boys kept a ring, and the
Law stood afar and declined to be a nark.
* * * *
There used to be a Soccer toeball club in
Christchurch (M.L.) and the players called them-
selves the Nomads. When the Bash started thev
unanimously dropped the inflated leather and rushed
away in a lump. Recently while resting in Egypt
the fighting men there turned again to the ball,
and from members of the Nomads Club in khaki a
full team was picked which wiped out everything
in sight.
McConarchy. the M.L. billiardist, man-
aged to get the laugh of his Melbourne critics by
running up a break of 560 “off the red” in his game
with Fred Lindrum. He did it in his usual hastv
way—much more rapidly than George Gray makes
the hazards—with an accuracy that had seemed
almost impossible to him earlier in the game.
McConarchy', who is only 21 or so, does very little
else than the losing-hazard stroke, but his impetu-
osity makes him interesting to watch, as compared
with the cold and steady Gray.
* * * *
Clarke McConarchy, who played a vic-
torious uphill game of billiards against Fred Lin-
drum, has started 18,000 up with Walter, young
brother of Fred, at Alcock’s Parlor, Melbourne.
Walter Lindrum relies mainly on the losing hazard
stroke, like Maoriland Mac, and the two young ’uns,
starting level, are likely to have a ding-dong
struggle. When Fred played Mac he gave a start
of 2000, and kept as much as possible to the top
of the table for exhibition purposes, instead of try-
ing to beat his opponent at the red-hazard game.
But brother Walter will be out -to win all the way
if he can.
**. * *
Billy Ripley (challenger), who defeated
Ben Thoroughgood (holder) for N.S.W. heavy'-boat
championship and the Percy Marks trophy at
Stockton (N.S.W.) last week, is the third sculler
to get his name on the shield. Arthur Pearce, who
won the first tussle, was the other holder.
Thoroughgood is the oldest sculler who has battled
for an open N.S.W. sculling championship. ' He is
47. To combat any idea that he is petering out,
Ben has fixed a return match with Ripley for June 3.
In the recent event Thoroughgood scaled 13st. 71b.,
Ripley list. 121 b.
Parramatta had its eye in when gathering
up the Metropolitan (Sydney) miniature riflp teams
championship. The “possible” was 3200 points, and
Parramatta scored 3098—the tall average of
per cent. North Sydney (3084) and Ultimo (3072)
were next.
* * * *
The curtain dropped on Sydney's bowling
tourneys when Ryde, by piling up 157 points against
Cheltenham’s 84, took the John Young Shield to its
hollow log. The shield, a sudden-death home-and-
home event, is played for every year to keep green
the memory of the genial “Father of Bowls” in the
Ma State.
* * * *
Two grown-up men barely had time to
shave the other day. They were too busy contesting
“the Croquet Championship of N.S.W.” at
wood. It is gravely reported that a “highly
ing” contest took place, the winner striking the
home peg in a state of exhaustion after a desperate
battle.


LEARN TO BOX SKILFULLY
AND BE A WINNER!
The skilful boxer has a great advantage over his opponent.
, , ," ec; ! u “ e applies his strength scientifically—does the right thing
at the right moment takes good care to reserve his powers, sees that
his opponent s blows lash the air or land on his gloves.
,11 unfortunate it’d be for you to engage a skilful Boxer. Why,
you cl be in doubt about a man of your own weight and skill.
Surely y'ou ought to cease being a target for a good Boxer.
Learn to box scientifically, and so become a skilful Boxer. There’s
no reason for you to remain “crude.” I can teach you in your own
home. J J
I TEACH BOXING BY POST.
M.v methods are as thorough as is possible—every-
thing is as plain as plain can be. The instruction
is simple and efficient. It will teach you to be a
hard-hitting boxer, with an excellent defence. You
will be taught how to compel y r our adversary to
leave openings. You'll cultivate the habit of keep-
ing yourself “covered” at all times.
Here is an extract from one pupil’s report:—
“I had a spar with a chap here the other night.
He lost his headpiece, and went for me like a good
one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but
that was not for long.”—J.O., Tenterfield, N.S.W.
You’re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you
better write for further particulars, regarding fees,
etc., which are given in my interesting Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home” ? Just write your
name and address across this advertisement, and post
to me. I’ll know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage to
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
496 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
High Hills Look Low
on the
L
Write for Catalogue “D."
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. [g
109=113 Russell St., Melbourne.
73 68
I AM A CHERUTO—
CAROLINA
CHERUTO
—open at both ends.
Yet I am just as good to
smoke as a finely-shaped
cigar, which costs ever
so much more than I
do.
We met in HAVANA
400 years ago, Columbus
and myself, and I have
recently been re-discov-
ered. You can buy me
in silver-foil bundles of
five for 2/-
Actual Size.
Carolina Cherutos,
5 for 2/-; 35/- per 100
Postage on 5,2 d.
100, N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-
State, 1/2.
My catalog of cigars, cigar-
ettes, tobacco, pipes, and
all smokers’ requisites will
interest you. Write for a
free copy.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on
SHELL
BENZINE
COOL and SWEET
N 2oz. TINS
SMOKE
HAP r ’’TOBACCO
CUT and PLUG
ALL STRENGTHS
W,
mSm
n
m
ip-VA
*PS
For Writing Home
A FILLER IS BOUND TO GET
BROKEN AT THE FRONT.
The Onoto needs no filler; it fills itself from any
ink supply, and cleans the nib while filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position. You send
it out to your friend at the Front full of ink ready
for immediate use.
The nilitary-size Onoto Pen is just the right size
for a soldier’s pocket.
Needs
no
filler.
Pen
From
12/-
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO . Ltd., Bunhill Road,
London. E.C. Australasian Managing Agents,
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Limited
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Selling Agents for
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. In
Steel Works,
Newcastle, N.vS.W.
WEAR RIGNEY SHOES.
There’s a Rigney Shoe for every occasion—
dress, semi-dress and outing. They differ
only in style. The same quality, perfect
fit and distinctive appearance are found in
every Rigney model.
We illustrate a high-grade Patent Kid
Golosh Bal., with Interwoven Glace Kid
Leg. Very light, Hand-sewn Welts.
Also in Tan Willow Calf
37/6
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
- '
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE..
Ages of Adelaide ’Varsity Professors:
R. W. Chapman (maths.), 50 next Dec.;
G. C. Henderson (history), 46; W. Mitchell
(philosophy), 55; Darnley Naylor (classics),
44; B. H. Rennie (chemistry), 63; T. G.
Osborn (botany), 2S; E. C. Stirling (physi-
ology), 67 ; A. Watson (anatomy), 67. Five
of the Adelaide Profs, are Australian-born
and three are natives of the Ma State.
J. A. Badgery, who died at Exeter
(N.S.W.) recently, aged 81, was the eldest
of the 12 sons of the late Henry,
the son of James Badgery, who came to
Sydney 121 years ago and settled on the
Hawkesbury. The Badgerys have been at
Exeter since 1820. Only two of the original
dozen now remain—H.S., of Exeter, and
Frederick, of Goulburn.
A Step in the Ri£ht Direction
Use Australian made
DUNLOP
TYRES
\ They mean more miles, less
j trouble, and greater satisfaction
j —and at considerably less cost
/ than the imported tyres. Compare
prices, there’s no need to compare
the quality—the road test proves
the superiority of “Dunlops."
Use them—it pays!
\LL
m
x
/<
X.
X
r
ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. BRISBANE. PERTH.
LAUNCESTON. WELLINGTON. CHRISTCHURCH.
LIST ON APPLICATION


GENTLEMEN
DEMAND
Quality, Style, Fit and Comfort in
their footwear. They get them all
in
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate one of our latest
models —a Glace Kid Bal. with
Patent Leather Toe Caps.
Price - 25/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
I
The Famous 12-Horsepower
KERMATH
MARINE and STATIONARY ENGINE.
4 Cylinders 4 Cycle—Medium Speed
Complete Equipment, including High-
tension Magneto.
Price from £6O up.
Write for Catalogues.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Invincible Motor Construction Co.
LTD.
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I
>
I
I
I
)
DAIMLER
vs*
sotor Carriages
Co&«ERCTAI Vehicles ~
Agricultural Tractors
DAIMLER COMPANY ws
COVENTRY, ENGLAND,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
.\siaa, tki. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
ai d at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High llol-
born. London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tue
telephone, .and obtain information without
charge.
Three Sizes—
l'A h.p.
2 H.p.
h.p.
a
r
TheEVINRDDE
:: DETACHABLE ::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40.000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes —adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of iuvaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator, etc.
T< transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes.
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H. A. GODDARD, 376 Collins Street, Melbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
404 Queen Street. Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; Remington
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z.
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
FX.&R. SPOONS and FORKS
embody the highest ideals.
They are the MOST HEAVILY-
PLATED of all spoons and forks the
world over. They will be good after
40 years of every-day wear.
The} - are plated on the finest-quality
white nickel silver that it is possible
to silver.
They engrave like solid silver. Sil-
ver deposit considered, they are the
cheapest spoons on the market.
They are made by us by the latest
new process, which makes them twice
as hard and strong as by the old
method.
We carry an enormous stock in
Electro Silver and Solid Silver, in
cases and uncased.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET,
Plain Figures. Cash Only.
Extra heavily-plated on special hard white
by a new process, A 1 quality Spoons and
Table Spoons, 38/-; less 20% discount....
Table Forks, 35/-; less 20% discount......
Dessert Spoons, 30/-; less 20% discount....
Dessert Forks, 28/-; less 20% discount
Tea Spoons, 13/6; less 20% discount ....
metal, made
Forks.
30/6 net
28/- net
24/- net
22/6 net
11/3 net
'l rZu*.
Wb
m
H
TRICKS 8 PUZZLES IN GALORE
Write for our New Catalog—FßEE.
THE PHANTOM CARDS.
Five cards are shown, and any person thinks of three of
them. The five, cards are now dropped in a hat. Performer
now picks out the two cards not selected. Someone puts a
hand in the hat to bring out the three selected cards, but they
have vanished, the hat being quite empty. Easy to
work. No skill required.
POST FREE. WITH FELL DIRECTIONS. 9d.
The above Trick and three other different ones
sent POST FREE FOR 2/6.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Ltd.
» 708-710 George St., Havmafket, Sydney
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
#1
•V
I
SbS
■
Do you know
of the superior features of the
MAX AMS complete line of Can-
making Machinery, from the Power
Press or Gang Slitter to the
Double Seamer and Tester?
Have you considered
the value of the AMS features,
and how they would affect your
production figures, convenience of
operating, cost of upkeep, time
in changing from one can diameter
to another, floor space and many
other items too numerous to list
here.
It will cost you nothing
to get these facts, and it may
result in a big saving to you.
an# 0 -
ca
WE INVITE CORRESPONDENCE on this subject and
would be particularly interested in showing you how the
MAX AMS System will give you greater efficiency and
a greater output per dollar invested.
ASK FOR “BOOKLET W.” NO OBLIGATIONS.
MAX AMS
Machine Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U.S.A.
Agents s
BERGER (Si, CARTER. CO., San Francisco, Cal.
W. E. HUGHES (a CO., London, E.C., England.
' EORGE HOTEL,
■St. Kilda, Melbourna,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratitied to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
—Rifle Sights
are more essential to a
sure shot than the gun it-
self. MARBLE’S Sights
■will greatly increase your
accuracy.
MARBLE’S Flexible Rear Sight
Folds down when not in use
but springs instantly into pos-
ition at the slightest touch.
Alignment rigid. Elevation
Quickly adjusted.
Vickers * Maxim Front Sight—
s a peep sight, the aperture being lined with
"ur lustrous Popes Island Gold so that the target
.9 quickly and steadily seen. Writefo* illustrat-
ed folder on Rifle Sights, sent prepaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. CO.
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address 1 *Marble** Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand Representatives (19R
HARRY MOLDEN, Box 1349, SYDNEY
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY* Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/* per Box. or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the State.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
What our Troops Think
Holdsworthy Camp. 7th October, 1M&
S. Fielder, Esq.. Randwick. Dear Sir-U“
behalf of our Company 1 wish to state t
we have derived great benefit from .
famous Exzerma. A great number ot
Company suffered from t )re feet riU ' ,
through marching : also sunburn and chapi
lips, and were quickly cured by Exzerni. ■
Believe me. Yours faithfully,
Corporal Brown of the 10th. A.I-E
All Chemists and Druggists, or from
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
5 2 6 [1
Ray’s Hair Dye.
When Grey
to show,
your a
with
Ilair begi«»
rejuvenate
ppearance
RAY'S
dye.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades-
Post pattern or
hair with order.
4/10,7/lM°/ 9 '
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH.
Street, Melbourne-
-22 * 23 Block Arcade. Collins


Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish— makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
Carte®
Hittle
IVER
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dosa— Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your fluster on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
if so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your kflees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be dis< olored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to Walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told yotir case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, hut do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also'for Poisoned Hands, House*
inaid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces*
ses, Snake and Insect Hites, &c.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store,
British Prices, 1/3 and 3/*
ALBERT & CO . Albert House, Farringdon St.,
AGENtS- LONDON, Eng
ELLIOTT BROS.
IV, H. SOUL PATTIXSON k CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN k SONS, etc.
MILITARY
BROOCHES
LATEST NOVELTY
Australia or Rising Sun,
18-carat Gold Plated, lj-
Sterling Siver 3/6; Solid
Gold, 15/- and 21/-
Send for our Complete List of rt al
Military Badge Brooches.
Rothwell’s Ltd..
Edward Street, Brisbane.
VERY NICE GRAVY
is made from the direc-
tions on the Bisto tin.
You don’t need flour,
salt or browning and
Bisto mixes much more
easily than flour.
OJSTO
makes
the simplest fare
most appetising.
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by CERRBOS, l-Tr>.
emr
>uthful appearance preserved
• bx\ ust m
■
■
na&zwm vmrcn
!«
I
.^inisrs
tfisisnisis
SLJIII '
M'afSllJS
Bags of Money can
be made with
FIAT.
LORRY
'*soo
4se>
R
Messrs. \V. E. BRAMBLE & SONS, Newcastle, have found their Lorry s
factory that they added two more to their fleet.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF WORKING COSTS.
satis-
ALICK McNEIL,
Gen. Manager,
GARRATTS LTD.
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
a
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
for Motor-Cars
and Motor Boats
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—for furniture:
the standard Polish
*
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
—for
all Floors
Johnson’s Wood Dye
—for colouring
all woods
PI
May We Send
You Postpaid
a Tin of
mm w
—enough for polishing a small
floor, piano, several pieces of
furniture or a motor car ?
Please use the Coupon below-
JOHNSON’S Prepared Wax is a splen-
did and complete finish and polish for
Floors
Linoleum
Woodwork
Desks
Pianos
Victrolas
Furniture
Golf Clubs
Motor Cars
Over varnish, shellac, oil and French
polish it imparts a velvety, protecting
finish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is in paste
form, clean and easy to use and very
economical. It gives a hard, dry and
artistic finish.
Every housewife who takes pride in
keeping her furniture attractive and
her home sanitary needs Johnson’s
Prepared Wax.
is for the artistic colouring of all
woods. With it inexpensive soft woods
may be finished so that they are as
beautiful as hard woods.
With Johnson’s Wood Dye you can complete
work promptly. It is very easily applied, very
economical and dries rapidly. Unequalled for
finishing new furniture, woodwork and floors,
for staining reed and wicker work, and for
refinishing old work.
Made in seventeen shades, including Mahog-
any, Early English and several shades of
browns and greens.
Johnson’s Artistic Wood Finishes
are for sale by Paint Dealers and
Ironmongers everywhere.
USE THE COUPON for a free copy of our 1;'- Book,
“THE PROPER TREATMENT OF FLOORS, WOODWORK
and FURNITURE,” and a generous tin of Johnson’s
Prepared Wax —sufficient for polishing a small floor, severs
pieces of furniture or a motor-ear. This booklet, which is
offered gratis, is the work of famous experts—it is beauti
fully illustrated in nine colors, and is full of valuable ideas
on home beautifying.
Post the Coupon at once to any of our Australian Distributors
SYDNEY: Holdswdrth, Macpherson & Co. (Whol.) ; D. C
Ramsay & Co.: Jas. Sandy A Co.; 11. H. Groth A Co.
Mark Fov’s Ltd. ; F. Lassetter & Co.
MELBOURNE: Jas. Hardie & Co. (Whol.); 11. J. Corder;
Mutual Stores; Wm. & Geo. Dean; John Dunks A Son.
ADELAIDE: King- A Co., Weymouth Street.
BRISBANE: Jas. Sloan k Co.; R. S. Exton k Co.
PERTH: Hamer & Co. (Whol.) ; Jas. Eastwood Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: Hart k Sons Co. HOBART: Davis A Co.
AUCKLAND: Hill k Plummer Ltd.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.): Collin A Co. Pty. Ltd.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, “The Wood Finishing;
Authorities,” Factory: Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Cable Address: Johnson, Racine.
Australasian Office, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.
To S. C. Johnson & Son AC
(Address Care of Nearest Distributor)
I enclose 6d. for a generous tin of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax and for a free copy of your 1/- Colour Book.
Name..
Address
My Dealer’s Name,
“Quill” seems to have somethin.!? to
grumble about: —
Vast masses of printed papers are thrown out by
Governments every year regarding “private finance,”
“the earnings of the people,” the “condition of
friendly societies,” and so on. It is all as arid as
the desert, as stimulating as ginger-beer. I take up
a volume, and before me are long rigmaroles about
carpenters and rock-choppers and rabbit-trappers and
billiard-markers and butchers and tuck-pointers and
cooks—about their wages, their unions, their hours,
tlie cost of living, and all the rest .of it. This is
no good to me, this dull catalogue of the squalid ;
so 1 turn over to get at the statistics about Ikey Mo
and Calico Jimmy, and the owners of the S. M.
Herald, and the land-agents, the drapers, the pic-
ture-show emperors, stock-exchange specialists and
indent agents. It isn’t, there. Not a line—just a
pile of dry bones and the meat hidden away in a
wrapper of silence. .There is no light and shade in
literature of this kind, no imagination, no point of
contrast. Therefore, as a Primitive Democrat, filled
with a holy belief that the rock-chopper and the
tuck-pointer are being robbed, and are mostly look-
ing in the wrong place for what does it, and
pursuing it with a bladder of wind, I want to have
Calico Jimmy brought into line with the slaughter-
man in these official compilations, and the man who
works with the man who tells him to get busy. And
while we are told what it onoht to cost Bill Smith,
rockcliopper, to live, let us also know what it does
cost, Willy Ssmyth and Mrs. Ssrnyth. Anyone listen-
ing, or has the audience gone home?
“Tiaki”: Maorilaml greenstone is all the
rage in 'Murka at present. It got its kick-
off from the White City, where it was passed
on to an enlightened public as something
unique from a desert isle. Now it is bring-
ing many dollars to the Jew peddlers and
Chinamen —mostly Chinamen. Poiuinmu,
as Ilenare terms it, is in three kinds:
kokotariphcai, .the best; puraicaipuke (which
means “flood sediment” and looks like it),
second : and kora, which is a bad third and
not of much commercial value. Greenstone
was used by the ancient Maori in making
ear-rings, tikis (squat ornaments as ugly
as a Chinaman's ghost), meres (sharp-edged
clubs), aureis (which are to be seen like
butchers’ steels depending from Ilenare's
watch-chain, etc. —especially etc.). There
is any amount of the stone in M.L., but T.
Enterprise has practically done nothing with
it except talk about building with it some
day or other.
Another note from Egypt:—
While dozens of families in Cairo are glad to
receive soldiers in their homes and trot them round
town, the bulk of the resident European population
arc mortally afraid of letting their damsels be seen
with a man In khaki, for the reason that people
might think “bad” of them. This is stark fact, but
it does not prevent many of these people being kind
and charming on occasion, nor does it prevent the
old human weakness of falling in love, as many an
engagement testifies. But to an Australian the fear
of “what people will say” or think, and, after the
barriers are cleared, the infernal presence of a
chaperon, nearly drives a man to apoplexy. Our
girls have no idea of the advantage they have over
their white sisters here. A friend of mine, engaged
to bo married to a good Australian, confided to me
that many of the girls in Egypt marry for the
freedom of movement it brings. This reminded me
of the answer of the wounded Kitchener chap who,
when he was asked wasn’t he glad to get away from
the trenches for a spell, replied that he wanted to
get back to them as soon as he could, for “they
don’t mess a man about so much ; they give a man
a bit of peace at the Front.”
“Quidam” : Billjim, of Countaquid, who
continually complains about the way he is
treated by the city, is not without stain him-
self. One of his bad habits is to charge
preposterous prices for his products when
he sells them to his neighbors. You’d think
dwellers in the country would be. able to
obtain country produce at city prices, less
cost of freight to the bloated metropolis,
agents’ charges, etc. If they could, the
reduced cost of such products would conduce
to cheap living, and materially counterbal-
ance the many disadvantages of rural life,
and also to some extent compensate for the
necessarily higher price of everything that
has to be brought from the city. But they
can’t. When chaff, for instance, is selling
at 4s. in Sydney, anyone in the country who
wants a bag finds Cocky asking ss. For
potatoes, eggs, honey, butter, poultry, etc., it
is the usual custom to charge Sydney prices
plus a bit for friendship. In the case of
country storekeepers there are excuses. They
have to give long credit and make a profit
to live on, but where the transaction is
between consumer and producer there is none
of this. Yet the country producer, who is
given to emitting dingo wails about the
middleman, insists on pouching the middle-
man’s profits and as much more as he thinks
the other fellow will stand. It may not
have struck him, but his habit is a material
factor in the suicidal business of keeping a
great and rich continent untenanted except
for a few overgrown cities on its edge.
“Annie J.”: My dear, fluffy little friend
who had just completed an expensive course
and consecrated her life to Art, thought the
time had come to make some money out of
it. and, with the vaguest notions of how to
begin, went along to a registry office. The
dreadful old lady behind the ledger read out
a list of inartistic working jobs before Miss
Perspective managed to stammer. “Oh. f
want something to do with Art!” The
dreadful old person calmly turned a well-
buttered page and jabbed a forefinger on an
entry. “Yes, here y’are. Photographer
wants somebody to scrub out. Can you go
at once?”
“Bill Bowyang”: Re the death of Joseph
Gurry (“Stobr Ruddell”) at Gallipoli (B.
3/2/T6), hard luck followed most of our
men who, weary of waiting, stowawayed on
transports leaving for the firing-line. I
know three men who managed to do this,
and they "were all killed shortly after land-
ing at Anzac. One of them, Pte. Varley.
of the 18th Battalion, was listed by his
medical officer as unfit for active service
when the battalion was ordered away for
the Front. But he was determined to have
a word with Abdul, and his cobbers con-
cealed him on board. Another man, having
sprained his ankle at Lemnos, was left
behind, and Varley took over his rifle and
equipment. He fought with great bratery
during the first charge of the 18th on August
22, but was killed a few days later.


i
'
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment the Perfected New
—THE GREATEST GIFT —
is built principally upon studi-
ous care of the body in all
conditions and in all climates.
The daily waste of the body
and the activity of the brain
are restored—the nerves are
steadied and strengthened—
the whole system rejuvenated
—by a course of
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE
In all cases of indigestion,
backache, malaria, headache,
brain fag, nervousness and
muscular rheumatism it is
the remedy which for 40 years
has been unequalled.
All chemists and stores, ty-
per bottle; four times the
quantity, 2/6. F.141.P.
Chemists,
237 George St., Sydney
8^
-
1
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
, _ . . and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CIEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalog's and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHRISTIE^
JSP£CIAUSE
TWO
L//VES
S l# s
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
/»N D
PATTERNS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
-
520 GEORGE5 T SYDNEY
1C /107MTER. § T NEWCASTLE
the • Jjl
HgSgf
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last seasop.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion.
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask me for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to use a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after
washing the face. Rub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
Photo: Wrather <£ Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use anv
thing inferior to wash the hair with Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of w
water. Then rinse the hai
gioiv nd 11 W 1 look bright an <*
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little—what do you call
it.' —stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick. ‘ Give vnnr
hair a good brushing every night, and 'that
will be all that you need do.
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
In a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores imrnedi
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result. * ’
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. it has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but flow
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol. obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc.; now puts a few
of these little brow’n berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
>l/
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness” so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that elynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
Very " faddy ” with bis food
Was Mr. well, let’s call him ‘A’
He shrank from eating, and his meals
They simply bored him In a way.
The Chef’s most wonderful creation,
Merely made him take to flight,
But ‘Jelloids, ’ happy Inspiration l
Soon found for him bis appetite.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
(( Mr. M. M. Hvatt, Isleworth, writes: —“ I have derived considerable
(( benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids ’—my appetite has returned, and I am feeling
quite well again. They are the best and most convenient tonic to take.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince yon.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at 1/1J and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
IV holesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd. cr. Clarence if- Market Sts.. Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to
Manager, who will quote you price foi t.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Fuze: You’re a misfire. This paper didn’t
approve of the thrashing of niggers because it reported
the occurrence, any more than it prefers cockroaches
in its soup because it found one there and told
the waiter 50... .Ringtail: Doubtful if it would
pass. The censorship instructions on that point
were apparently drawn up by Germans. But don’t
blanie Pearce —it was done long before his time.
... .Cromarty (and others) : Much obliged. Dean
Phelan is resurrected, and Dean Nelan is laid in
the grave in his place. And the man who deceived
us is for penance ordered to be tied to the tail of
the Yellow Pup for a month.... Ted R.: Thanks,
but not enough interest.... Tarwin: Ditto....
J.G.D.: That Yellow Pup won’t fight.... Brolga:
Idea worn threadbare... .E.L.J.: What was it you
wanted to know? The questions were not en-
closed... .G.W.8.: Much obliged; but it arrives a
few months too late... . A.L.8.: “Tourist Army” yell
is hollow in some places and jagged in others, and
hasn’t much meaning. .. .Alidade: “Deerest Julie”
doesn’t work. You should be able to get results by
better methods.... Last Post: Lord, how it jolts!
....John McL.: And did you really take all those
months to patch your submarine? You could have
built a fleet of new ones in the time... .G.H.: Quite
passable school rhymes. No use here... .G. 8.: People
who are not worth writing about, in their most miser-
able aspect... .Aislynn: One may d 0.... W.E.0.:
That finishing note gets us:—
For strength and unity of action the British Empire’s
bound.
A nation so united could not on earth be found.
A war is all-important—religion in disguise.
It is of many victories—one is to fraternise.
. ...W.F.: Micko verse is lame, halt and blind....
E.N.: No good. .M.R.: Never mind, you’ll be more
than 16 soon. Payment was for suggestion....
Gecko: Hubbard mystery declined No. 9: Poor
joke; worse dressing L.K.8.: We don’t yell for
blank verse; but yours is badly out of scansion and
not rich in idea's Feste: Not up H.W.: “Strange
foods” and “call” don’t go J.S.S.: Shoddy
Janitor: Dreary yarn about Britishers of no interest
to Australianers.... Petroleum Jones: Useless in pre-
sent form J.R.D.: Nothing in it J.M.W.: Not
up.... Earle Kyngson: We don’t publish books.
R.J.J.A.: Poor dad. What he has to endure at the
hands of the humorless! R.J.: Learn to write
naturally.. . .W.M.E.: “Celebration” is dull stuff.
. ...H.J.: Hqld for inquest A.M.: “Bill the
Silent” might sell elsewhere. .. .No Name: “Voices
of the Hills,” “Autumn Leaves,” and “The Baby” are
utterly futile W. 0.:. Verse too rough P.A.:
Slovenly stuff Jackv: No use H.A.S.: “Tess”
is a bumpy and discordant female L.D.: Here it
is in all its seintillant beauty:—
■.. .R.J.H.C.: A lot of loose phrases thrown about in
any old fashion don’t make verse J.C. J.: You
can’t put the responsibility of such verse on G0d....
P.M.: The “Cause” couldn’t regard that as a tribute.
. ...F.R.M.: Improve your scansion... .J.V.G.: That
recurring “desolation” rhyme destroys it H.W.:
Horrible yarn ; rotten verse Arjay: Ghastly idea
too thin A.C.: Nothing vital in yarn of sick man’s
madness F.W.T.: Bishop yarn, as it stands, is
simply a dull suggestion of filth. Other stuff pain-
fully labored and lacks fuel for a single smile....
R.G.H.: If verse wasn’t so rough the smart tag at
the end might carry it Pam: Doesn’t strike us.
H.W.: “Court of Inquiry” is crude H.H.H.:
“Bolger” and “Motherhood” not up. Other a.Jait
conventional, but held for inquest S.A.K.: Yarn
about “scarlets” moves heavily ... .J.N.S.: “Answer”
and “Sports Reply” not up V.F.K.: You have a
poor sense of rhythm and a mixed notion of gram-
mar. .. .H.M.K.: Dreary sort of optimist you are.
... .H.D.: Too rugged. .. .H.C.F.: Small geographical
verselet not up G.R.H.: Nearly... .Revbo: Pub-
lish it as a religious tract. .. .8.G.: Might have
point in England; useless here. .. .8.M.K.: Don’t
like it... .M. 8.8.: Here’s your chief thrill:-*-
We all were like madmen,
With our dive in hot haste.
And the cunning wild fugitives
Were going a pace.
When we entered the field, the enemy halted,
Like shameful dogs, pleaded to spare them their lives,
Their proud officer surrendered, their arms to unload,
But does he remember the loss of the lives?
M.A.: “The Portrait” misses A.T.C.: You
can’t rhyme “waves” with “days” in this paper. ...
A.G.T.: The poem was obtainable anywhere in book-
let form some months ago. Write to any of the big
booksellers.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Cecil B.: Too complicated V.S.: The joke wasn’t
new when an English paper printed it 15 years ago.
C.R.: Sorry; quite unsuitable. Pencilled scratches
on ruled paper are hopeless for reproduction
Marcus G.: A long way off. .. .Homo: No nightmares
to-day... .T.C.0’8.: Another thousand years’ prac-
tice F. 8.: All sunk in deep water.... Ted H.:
This is a hard world, but there is no necessity to
make it harder with bad art T. Le B.: Why draw
hands—of all things?. .. .Saracen: Woodemlegged
notion... .B.O.B.B.: Poor idea—awful drawing....
C.D.: Take it away....H.A.S.: Mould it be asking
you too much to learn something about Art before
you make a second start? J.W.W.: It is far too
long, dear friend —far too long M.M‘L. (M.L.) :
You’ll create a shortage of drawing material if you
use so much board on your first attempts.
“Jobber”: It is astonishing the number of
linguists one meets in Egypt. While at
Mena House Hospital. I became good cobbers
witli a Maltese who is in the Egyptian
police. He speaks nine languages, and can
read and write five of them. I met an
Egyptian boy, 14 years old, who was read-
ies the Arabian Nights” in English.
Before I left him he recited Mark Antony’s
oration from ‘‘Julius Caesar,” impressing on
me the fact that Brutus was an “honor-r-r-
-able man. ’ He asked me if I spoke French
—he could. “No, sport,” I said, and worked
ott the old gag about being able to speak
only English and Australian.
Out to stem the raging tide
Men from- Australia rushed out and died.
While lovers watched the sea in fear,
Laborers “struck” and fought for beer.
Kitchener said he wanted boys,
So out they went their mothers’ joys.
Their blood lies on Gallipoli,
And whispers come from over the sea.
But oh ! these heroes did their best.
Some lie, with bayonets in their chest.


j'im’X
A
A Trade Mark
with a vital
meaning for
motorists.
" For almost countless cen-
turies .... the rugged re-
mains of Stonehenge have . .
. .faced all the ravages of
Nature's elements and yet sur-
vive, almost scatheless, from
the long-fought contest with
the forces of erosion. Bearing
in mind its historical associ-
ations, age, strength and
permanence, the constant
identification of this monument
... as the symbol of the
strong and enduring is well
within the fitness of things."
—The Times.
TVjO house with an honourable past and a
promising future chooses its trade
mark lightly. A case in point is the Avon
India Rubber Company’s selection of the
Stonehenge Trilith.
d That Stonehenge chances to be situated in Wiltshire
(England), where the Avon Rubber Works have been estab-
lished since 1885, merely explains the origin of the idea.
The prime significance of the Trilith as a trade mark is that it
was chosen to symbolise the strength and endurance of Avon
Tyres, and it is within the knowledge of most motorists that
these valuable qualities are faithfully striven for and consistently
achieved. The superior “ stamina ”of Avons means, for
every man who goes down to the road on wheels —more comfort
for more miles , less trouble and less txpense.
jn
ass
fivr,
agents
N. J. HOWES & CO., 212 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, MELBOURNE.
mm
Ce rtamteed
SQOFINCi
■*
S£V *
Hot breezes of summer —driving rains of the off-season—
won’t penetrate
Certain-teed
ROOFING
This product represents the culminating effort of the largest
manufacturers of their kind in the world —it will give splendid
service and the cost is moderate.
Leading architects the world overspecify Certain-teed. Prominent
buildings, large and small —residences, stands, hotels, booths and
bungalows—are roofed with Certain-teed.
Obtain samples from your local distributor. He car-
ries a full stock. Orders will be filled promptly.
GENERAL ROOFING MFG. CO.
Manufacturers of world-known Certain-teed products.
Reinforced Flat Roofing Roll Roofing Damp Course Building Paper
Insulating Paper Paints Wall Board
EXPORT OFFICES: New York and San Francisco. U. S. A. Cable Address: ‘Genromco’.
FACTORIES: York, Pennsylvania; Marseilles and E. St. Louis, Illinois, U. S. A.
Australian Office: Perpetual Trustee Building, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Full local stocks carried by John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it
AUT
J
j
bo
SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street —a few doors from
King Street and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street !
J r
rn
3#K
IS
til fi 1 i
1
u
W
II
l
f'
k
m
<A
SJ.
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
THE Hotel Carlton, completed at a cost exceeding £lOO,OOO.
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David Jones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors !
While its exquisite appointments—its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used to every
comfort —the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that !
It is from every point of view the most desirable place in Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in catering for the
best class of patronage !
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases and concrete
floors throughout.
The general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, afternoon-
teas, etc.
All Letters, Wires, etc., promptly answered.
TERMS ON APPLICATION.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager.
1
1
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA CN GLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-luxe;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
You can obtain BETTER INTER-
EST and EVERY FACILITY FOR
SAYING at the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED FROM t /-
UPWARDS.
Interest paid at 3$ per cent, on balances up
to £ 500, except on accounts opened with
the late Savings Bank of N.S.W., which are
limited to £2OO.
Cultivate the habit of making regular
deposits—no matter how small.
The Repayment of all Deposits is Guaran-
teed by the Government of New South Wales.
By Order of the Commissioners.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Ollice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian j)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (31st December, 1915) .. £1,196.108
RESERVE FUND £75,000
HEAD OFFICE : George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IMS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa. China, the East.
The Commercial Banking go.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,805,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,805,000 0 0
Directois:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman,
lion. IT. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and J. J. Brenan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: f 8 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. •• 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . • • • 992,295
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,057,170
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping &c.
STEAMSHIP LINES OPERATED BY UNION S.S. CO. OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (X.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE
RAILWAY, Across the F
TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CAN ADLAN
amous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
PACIFIC
LAKES,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
STEAMERS SAIL : ;
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabins De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts,. Laundry
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around th*e World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MAITAI, 25th May. *MOAN A, 22nd June.
* Connecting Steamers leave Sydney 18th May, loth June.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
SPECIAL HOLIDAY TOURS.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America-
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. llakura.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Days’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
RETURN FARES: First Class, £4B; Second Class, £33.
SOUTH PACIFIC ISLANDS.
Winter T°«» »°Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva.,
Lautoka,
Samoa Apia, Cook Islands
Rarotonga
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUXE (2087 tons).
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
Something' Unique in
- -
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
send for further particulars to
BURN 5, PMILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Every Three Weeks
IX SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
I ntercl.i liveable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—•
MAY 31, JUNE 21, JULY 12, AUG 2.
AppIy:— OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, Telephone: City 2282.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harrv J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” * Set
of sis, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“llimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
. AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
£3,500.000
£2,600.000
£3,500,000
£9.600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionet Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.U., m.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgeeliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St . E C
344 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London"
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
-L RCSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
I HEAD OFFICE
3Sank° [ Australia
SYDNEY I
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth,
United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1/.
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at » 0 /
per annum w }
up to £300
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL. Deputy Governor. June, 1915 DENIS *N MILLER. Governor
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO,
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE : 0 and ,
WEST AUSTRALIAN. SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND POUTS
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, June Sand
July 1.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
P'P PAR a, May *>(i
PARINGA, May 27
MORI ALTA, June 3.
the firTpo P wklf othe" Intw-ftTtfcom aUcr
on all services subject to conditions whiS? Pan V ei '
ascertained on application at the Cofnpan be
G. S. \ l ILL & CO., LTD
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE
Sailings as follows (circumstances
permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).^
north.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 20.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Mav 24
Leaves Sydney May 2V.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Mav 31.
Leaves Sydney June 3.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 27.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPH!. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; TURN-
BULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
“pH E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON DAY, COFF'S
HARBOR and AVOOLGOOLGA.
Comoiuauon Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TLCKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
deamer. ,i:6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £ 4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
The Colonial fljutual
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments aau
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: .
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
rhc Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed f foo'oOO
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £lo>o
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE,
rhe Company acts as Executor, Joint Executor, Trus
ee, Administrator or Attorney under Power t° r ;* ,
ees, and is the only Trustee Company empoweie .
Let of Parliament to operate in more than one
SYDNEY OFFICE: 48 Young Street.
Directors. „
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.t-
I. Y. BRADDON, Esq. j KIDD,^-
I. AY. BELL, Esq. I R- M P 'H’ m, on
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable
pplication to JOHN MAlR,_Manager^
SULPHOLINE
* THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ensuring^A^CLEAR_COMPL£X[£IJ;
Vhe slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Piinp|®
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema P
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
S-urf
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin SP' London,
J.PEPPER&Co.,Ltd..BeiifordLaborato > an y
S.E., England, and can be obtained from
chemists and stores throughout the j
Quickly removes the effects of Sunscor _


u Make it better **
This is the standing order in every Mkheli
manufacturing department.
“ Good Enough ”
never was a
Michelin opinion of Michelin
Tyres.
Research work and exhaustive
tests are constantly being carried
cut in the Michelin factories, with
a view to the improvement of
Michelin Tyres.
The result of this careful study
means that each year the Michelin
Quality is better, and that Michelin
Tyres become more and more suited
for the arduous conditions to which
they are subjected.
o.
/
V#
EIGHT CYLINDER
Sixty Horse-power Seven Passenger
Michelin Tyres have never been so good
as they are at present.
The quality of a cigar can only be proved by smoking it; similarly the
quaity of a tyre can only be proved by trying it*
This is why we urge you to try
Michelin Tyres,
and compare the mileage obtained with that given by the tyres you have
previously used*
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Agents.
l A 1810
THIS powerful Model E Touring
car is the successor of our
pioneer eight-cylinder King,
which has been for the past year in
operation all over America and in
thirty foreign lands, there being
wore eight-cylinder Kings in owners
hands than any other “Eight” save
one.
Model E has a V-type motor, bore 3
inches, stroke 5 inches; aluminium pis-
tons —which increase engine-power and
resist carbon; improved King Cantilever
susnension; 120-inch wheel base; two
auxiliary seats folding out of sight;
spiral bevel gears; vacuum gasoline sys-
tem, and electric starting and lighting.
A five-passenger Sedan body—The
utmost in closed-car luxury—can also
be supplied for this chassis.
EXPORT DEPT., KING MOTOR CAR
CO.,
50 Union Square, New York, U.S.A.
Agent for New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd., Sydney.
Agent for New Zealand:
Dominion Motors, Ltd., Wellington, N.Z.
V A
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYtMIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best ana
cheapest I have ever used.” . .
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale o.
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine.- Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
INSECTIBANE
This Popular Fly
Killer and insect
Destroyer is now
obtainable.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
EXPLOSIVES
ARE THE PRODUCTS OF
OVER A CENTURY’S EXPERIENCE
Explosives packed especially to com?
ply with requirements of Australia
and other foreign countries.
Our SAFETY Explosives for use in
dusty and gaseous coal mines have
passed the rigid tests of the United
States Government’s Bureau of Mines.
Thirty factories in the United States.
Plants on both the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts assure prompt shipments.
OBTAIN MAXIMUM RESULTS
BY SPECIFYING
DUPONT EXPLOSIVES
E.l.du Pont de Nemours & Co.
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS
$ OF EXPLOSIVES
Wilmington, Delaware, U. S. A.
A US TRALIAN A GENTS:
Henry W. Peabody & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
£,
vv
Little Lectures
by Nurse 'Wincarn's
{Lecture Vo a.)
“Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an
intricate network of telegraph
wires. Controlled and nour-
ished by a portion of the
brain —known as the nerve
centres —the delicate thread-
li e nerves radiate in all di- |
rections throughput the body.
So long as the nerve centres
are capable of continually
supplying nourishment to the
nerves, the nerves will remain
strong- and healthy. But-
directly the nerve centres be-
came weakened by overwork,
worry or anxiety, they are un- I
able to transmit the necessary
nourishment, and the nerves
b rcome worn out and “ on.
edge.’’ Tnen it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia —you are rest-
l less and depressed. In this con- !
ditio.i there is nothing to equal
ESflgE®
Because, being a powerful
nerve food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets
right to the root of the trouble,
and, by creating a supply of
new nerve force, stimulates ,
and re-vitalises the whole
nervous system. Try ‘Win-
carnis'.. for ‘Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,00.0
Doctors recommend it
Begin to get well (
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
"TTOTEjSrySr S~OT.TEr3~'WTncarnis 1
Works, Norwich. You can buy _
‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists and
Stores selling wines, prices 4/- and
6/6, but if you experiehce any diffi-
culty in obtaining it, write direct
to Sole Distributing Agents, Fassett
& Johnson, 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney.
Stationary Engines
Magneto from U h-P- Upwards.
PUMPING OUTFITS SUPPLIED.
CONCRETE MIXERS, ROAD
GRADERS.
ROW-BOAT MOTORS, 5 different
models. .
LAKE BREEZE COOLING FANS, run
on methylated spirits.
LAMPS and LANTERNS, burn benzine
or kerosene. . ..0
LIGHTNING LETTER OPENERS, 3
models, capacity from 100 to 300
letters per minute.
LATES T-I MPROVED LETTER
SEALERS.
Agents for all lines wanted where not
represented.
ADDISON PARKER,
34- Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


ITZ’S
CIDER
$
KTTZ'So
%
PURE SPARKLING ap*ie jlhcc
L. KXTZ OL SONS PTY. LTD,,
460 Lit. Collins St., Melbourne.
Interstate Agents—
TUCKER k OO Sydney
BURKS, PHILP CO Brisbane
WVLKERVILLE CO-OPERATIVE
BREWERY CO Adelaide
PHILP, COYLE 4: CO Perth
BURKS, PHILP A: CO Townsville
BURKS, PHILP 4: CO Cairnj
A. H. MOUNTAIN & CO Geraldton
,T. FERGUSSON & CO Hobart
J. MeKEKZIE & CO Launceston
J. M. HEADRICK & CO. .. Rockhampton
THE CURSE OF AUSTRALIA! White Ants!
90% ARE AFFECTED. YOURS ALSO. Your Home and Castle. 4/6 WILL SAVE IT.
Aftw a decade of investigation in the heart of WHITE ANT colonies, we have Derfeeted
jsssJ&sr* s»jfa sjis
Marshall’s WHITEANTO Secret Compound
with full instructions, testimonials and pamphlet.
Place in Single Spot. They will find it. A boon
and a procurer of absolute immunity from pest.
No Tar. No Staining. No Nest Groping,
to Home-owners, as an immediate eradicator
J. VANCE MARSHALL, Manufacturing Laboratory, Pitt Town, Windsor, N.S.W.
TO BE BEAUTIFUL WITHOUT
“MAKE-UP.”
HOW TO MAKE YCLUR SKIN BEAUTI-
FULLY SOFT. CLEAR AND DELI-
CATELY TINTED WITHOUT USING
CREAM, POWDER OR ROUGE.
To many ladies the opportunity of beauti-
fying the skin and complexion without using
creams, powders, perfumes, rouge, etc.,. will
come as a welcome surprise. Yet it is so
simple and the result is so delightfully pleas-
ing that I am surprised more ladies are not
aware how it can be done. Just get your
chemist to mix 2oz. rose water, 2oz. flowers
of oxzoin, and 1 dram tincture of benzoin.
When well shaken this should be applied
with a sponge night and morning and
allowed to dry on. Then dust the skin
lightly with a soft cloth or leather. This
will quickly remove all skin blemishes or
roughness from the hands, neck and face,
and make your skin beautifully soft, clear
and delicately tinted. —Advt.
For —
Dustless
Dusting
Use . .
3-in-one
Oil i
Moisten woollen rag
or cheese-cloth with
this wonderful
Oil. Wipe
Piano, Chair,
Table, Man-
tel any-
polished
surface.
Dust and
germs stick to the cloth!
No grease or acid in “Three-ln-
One"-iust water-white, sweet-
smelling Oil that makes
Wood. Metal and Glass
clean and bright.
Send for FREE Sample Bottle.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
HARRIS STREET, WELLINGTON, NX
a
BANANA LAND
Banaualaud’s awful climate has told at
last on Scotehbyterian missionary Richard
lverr, who has decided to retire after a 50
years’ fight with tropical sin. During all
that long spell he never missed a service for
which he had been announced, though iu the
early days there was often a spear or a
boomerang on the path.
The first fortnight’s run of the Cactus
Estate Co.’s potash reduction works at
Dulacca averaged half a ton a day, which
should shortly be increased to the maximum
i hree-quarters of a ton. The potash is
obtained by gassing tbe curse ready for
burning, and then refining tbe ash. Apart
from potash production, the co.’s success de-
pends upon exterminating the porcupine plant
within a given period, in which case a
grateful Government will grant the co. a
large slice of land. So far, 10,000 acres
have been cleared, 70 acres of which now
carry a luxuriant crop of Rhodes grass.
So great is the demand for the small portable
poison-spraying plants—2oo of them are now
in use iu the State —that the establishment
of works on the Brisbane River for the
manufacture of arsenious chloride, hitherto
made iu Melbourne, is being considered.
E. 11. Abell, acting Under Sec. of the
Chief Sec.’s Office, has the honor by direc-
tion to send The Bulletin this Note: —
The statement (B. 20/4/’l6) that the rush on the
State Butchery was helped by “3000 tickets lor free
meat which were issued in one month” is totally at
variance with fact, as not one order for free meat
has been given. What has given rise to the rumor,
perhaps, is that, through some misunderstanding, the
Home Department, which issues orders for relief to
needy persons, made some of these orders on the
State Butchery it the same way that they were made
on other butchers’ shops. The meat was supplied
and the money collected from the Home Department
in the same way that the other shops collect. Only
a few of these orders were issued, as the Home
Department was asked to discontinue making the
orders on the State shop.
Well, if there’s any discrediting of the Sosh
chop it is in the official explanation that the
Government had been buying its own beef-
steak “through some misunderstanding.”
and that it apparently has so little confi-
dence iu its own undertaking that in future
it will patronise only the rival sausage
foundry.
The Methodies hold the local, record for
fighting parsons. Corporal Hunter died in
action at Gallipoli; H. P. Hare has a com-
mission with the 9th Artillery; J. T. Bods
is a lieutenant with the Light Horse; and
Wheatley, 8.A., Morsley, Delbridge. Gray-
son, Axelseu, Wellington and Stewart are
beating swords out of pruning-hooks in the
most approved modern fashion.
“Ebb”: Brisbane Normal School has been
famous since our grandfathers carried
slates. Further honor has now fallen upon
it, the Cabinet having decided to house
beneath its roof the offices necessary for
“the Workers’ Educational Movement.”
Albert Mansbridge, M.A., of England, hav-
ing told us how to move, Government money
will provide a secretary, lecturers in Con-
stitutional History and Social Economics,
as well as a library; and thither -will repair,
night by night, horny-handed sons for the
learning that leads to Limelight House and
a railway pass.
Ex-Corporal Wren has gone down badly
over the Goodna libel case, the jury having
awarded damages of £3325 to Medical Supr.
Ellerton for the articles which appeared iu
the Daily Mail concerning the manage-
ment of the asylum. The paper attacked
the institution and demanded a Royal Com-
mission ; the Commission was appointed,
and decided against the bulk of the allega-
tions. Then the Medical Supt. took a hand.
Costs will, it is said, add a further £BOOO,
for the hearing alone lasted 27 days.
A CLUE.
POLICEMAN : “And would you recognise him again, sir?”
CITIZEN: "Recognise him? Why, certainly. He was dressed like a boy scout.'”
Tom Fowles, M.L.C., is leading the 6
o’clock closing movement in Bananaland.
Fowles would naturally be some sort of
o’elueker.
“Boro-Belle” : Regarding the contention of
director Cronin, of the Melbourne Botanic
Gardens, that what the average crop requires
isn’t the stirring of the subsoil but the judi-
cious use of fertilisers (B. 20/4/T6). the
conclusion is borne out by the experiences of
the canegrowers in the Mackay district. In
the mountainous Finch-Hatton area, for in-
stance, where the soil is sometimes 20ft.
deep before clay is reached, heavy crops are
the rule with just the average subsoiling of
12iu. or 15in. and no fertiliser. In the Home-
bush area, however, where the soil is only
seven or eight inches deep on the clay foun-
dation, shallow ploughing and the liberal
use of manures gives equally heavy yields,
notwithstanding that crops have been pro-
duced on the same land continuously for
upwards of 2o years. The director’s opinion
that we want scientific experiments to deter-
mine the proper treatment of soil is again
borne out by the experience of two promi-
nent growers in different parts of the dis-
trict. Both applied molasses as a fertiliser:
one man lost his crop of young cane; the
other, by adding plenty of water before
applying the molasses, produced crops for
three successive years of over 50 tons to the
acre—which established a record.
The Duel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a splendid moon to-night. 1 watched its
glory grow;
It shone upon a yellow rose and turned its gold to
snow;
It shone upon a satin shoe one full, short hour ago.
The air was hot and strange and dry, drought pinched
the grasses’ awn ;
How short and crisp the wilted stalks upon the
shaven lawn!
(How many heart-ticks left of life? How many
hours to dawn?)
An emerald dragon on her wrist, a diamond at her
breast,
And dewy eyes with lashes black a yielding mood
confest.
Oli, warm above that diamond clam a weary head
might rest!
V laughing faun the terrace held, a stained, blind-
lidded thing;
The myrtle hedge stirred to the brush of some slow
owlet’s wing;
Her lips....A man may lose his life for such a
transient tiling!
%
Oh, had I tasted all her sweets I might have slept
to-night,
Nor waked to wonder if the East grows wan to
morning light,
And ponder on a patch of green.... six paces to the
right.
A blackbird in the coppice calls (how swift tlie
moments pass!)
My fingers snapped the crystal stem before 1 drained
the glass.
The cry, the challenge, and the glove upon the
trodden grass 1
\nd presently the night will leave the world as
bright as this
(.‘lean blade, that will not be so clean, before the
noon, I wis;
And I shall pay life drop by drop for ransom of
her kiss.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 13, 1916.
My Dear Tharuoaiindah, —
We are all busy brushing our iffiported
boots and dusting our Paris hats, preparatory
to receiving the delegates to the Chamber of
Commerce outburst next week. A river trip
on Monday, a theatre party on Tuesday, and
two receptions are arranged for the odd
moments when the Conference is not discuss-
ing how to kill Hun trade without a tariff.
To-night, at the Tivoli Theatre, the Bris-
bane Operatic Players opened their week’s
season of “La Fille du Tambour Major.” The
piece was well staged, and the orchestral work
splendid. Arthur Crane, as Capitaine
Robert, and little Miss Eva Webber, ns
Griolet, the drummer boy, were the pick of
the show. Tessie Mulcahy was a tuneful
Duchess, and Sam Learmonth made a success-
ful Tambour Major.
A meeting was held at the Town Hall ou
Wednesday to discuss the establishment of a
Residential Club for returned Billjims. Aid.
Jenkinson. who is a vice-president of the
Returned Soldiers’ Association, floated in and
told the ladies that -the R.S.A. was busy on
a similar scheme; whereupon the ladies en-
thusiastically decided to become hod-carriers
to the R.S.A.
Roy Lomax, youngest son of the Lomax
clan, Tenterfield station (N.S.W.), has placed
a diamond ring on the finger of Elsie
McGowan, third daughter of the McGowans
of Euro Yoroke, Warwick.
Have you any old bicycle wheels about you?
If you have, send them to the Brisbane Wool
Spinning Guild. Bike wheels have been
found to make the best spinning wheels, and
though some hundreds already have been
forthcoming, there is an increasing number
of spinners waiting to set them twirling.
Major Hill, who wears the Military Cross
and of the most popular officers of the
15th Battalion, was married yesterday after-
noon at St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane, to
one of the pretty Richmond girls, of West-
brook. The bride was frocked in crepe de
chine trimmed with white fur —a tropical
edition of the Snow Queen. Stella Rich-
mond and Rene Brown were the brides-
maids; Captain F. Ryder (9th Battalion)
chaperoned Major Hill; and a number of
returned soldiers of the 15th and 9th
Battalions and the 2nd Light Horse Regt.
captured the front pews and made the Major
feel more at home.
After struggling for over 50 years against
the accursed climate, Mrs. T. M. Bussey, one
of the oldest residents of Toowoomba, died
last week. She was one of the pioneers of
Maryborough, arriving with her late husband
and a family of little children in 1564. She
remembered all about the Gympie gold rush
in 1807, and had a few reminiscences of bush-
rangers and such trifles. Her husband a
the first mail coach from Marvbriotl r ° Ve
Brisbane. For the last Stt 0
Bussey lived in Toowoomba. She
grand-daughter of an earl, but after she
became au Australian it didn’t worry her
Hie Brisbane Girls Club presented
mental colors to the 41st Battalion veste '
day. and whispered their intention of rum
nmg a Comforts Fund for the boys whife
they are away. 1116
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
An attendant at the Goodna \ sv i um
received a communication from the Horn
Secretary's office the other day to acquaint
him that, “in consequence of information
received from the military authorities” i
had been decided to dispense with his’ser-
vices. He had a semi-German name •imi
some allegations had been made against‘his
loyalty. Apparently it was a little joke of
the military authorities, for the disloyalist
who merited the sack was already ffi khaki
and in one of the military’s own trainine
camps. s
W. A. Amies, M.A., was admitted to the
Queensland Bar one day last week and passed
into camp as soon as the Court rose. The
new recruit left Ormond College (Melb |
with “double firsts” in his pocket; then went
teaching at Maryborough and Brisbane and
filled in time law-reading and preparing a
volume on Elizabethan literature. Now lie
reckons he wants a quiet spell and goes to
war to get it
Binghi is rapidly disappearing from the
settled areas. Brisbane hasn’t more than
a dozen full-bloods, and the country towns
are steadily telling them off. A matter of
a few years ago Mackay knew something
like 1000; now it would have to let a muster-
ing contract to round up 100. A day or
two ago the local yearly blanket distribu-
tion —for old men, gins and kiddies—fell
due. It drew only 17 claimants, most of
whom were hard put to it to drag their
tired bones to the police station.
“Musketoon”: Hats off to Ted Jones,
shearer and shearers’ cook! Jones had been
dough-punching at Dungabull station, but
jumped on his horse and rode 100 miles to
get the boss’s signature at the foot of his
cheque. Having received the scrap of paper
and a blessing he was given a lift in a
motor to Eastmere, and travelled to Jericho
by coach. From Jericho he caught the train
to Rockhampton, 307 miles, and another
train journey of 306 miles brought him to
Brisbane and made him Private Jones, one
of the white hopes of Australia.
Passed out in Cooktown. aged 85. Cap-
tain Colin Thompson, well known in the
South Seas and North Bananaland. For
many years he was a regular trader in the
Islands and New Guinea, and had varied
experiences in the bad old days. Where
Port Moresby now sprawls Thompson was
attacked and nearly killed by natives. In the
Solomons some nigs, inflicted a wound in
his neck that caused him to wear his head
with a strong list to starboard for the rest
of his life. He was a great believer in, and
a battler for. the white settlement and
development of North Australia, and his
arguments had the force of long years of
experience behind them. A year or two ago
the old chap retired from the strenuous life,
as he was beginning to feel the weight of his
years—which is a way the men of the North
have when they get past 80 or 90.


Model 75
a
Electric Lights
Eleciric Starter
Five-Passenger Touring Car
Single Sealer - - - -
£.325
£315
. j'
The Overland is Yours
for a very Small Price.
A motor-car would mean much to you.
And the ideal car for you is one that is light and economical—yet one that will give you
the same convenience and the same pleasure you could find in a large and much more costly car.
You no longer have to pay a big price for one. Nor do you, in satisfying your desire
for lio-ht weight and economv of upkeep, have to be content with an uncomfortable
incomplete car that continually keeps you in a state ot mental dissatisfaction.
This new Overland solves the problem.
It weighs onlv i ocwt. This, in itself, means economv of tyres and general
upkeep. Also the en bloc engine is of the highlv-efficient, long-stroke type, designed
especially to give greatest fuel economy.
And while the car is not large, it is in every respect a finished production. It
has electric lights —electric engine starter —those easy-riding cantilever rear springs
even- advantage and convenience.
J o
You should have a car—you really need one. And this light, inexpensive
Overland is )ust the one for you.
Our local distributor will gladly demonstrate it ior you.
COMPLETE CATALOGUES ON REQUEST FROM
CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Melbourne.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., Brisbane.
ANDERSON <fc ADAMS, Perth.
H. C. HE AT HORN <fc CO., Hobart.
Messrs. A. HATRICK <& CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio, U.S.A.
Cable Address— Overlandis, Toledo (ABC sth: General, Western Union, and Lieber Codes).


A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers
£8 10s.
15 YEARS’WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
Packed & Delivered Free
A.N.A. Sewing
Machine Co.
2t> QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY,
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
EAU
DE COLOGNE
m
On
Distilled from natural
flower products only, its reviving
fragrance never deteriorates even in
a vitiated atmosphere.
An Ideal Toilet Water for sick room use ; a
refreshing addition
to washing water;
! indispensable when '
< travelling or on a 1
sea voyage; and one of the few
perfumes a man permits himself to use.
Sprinkler bottles ... 5/- and 9 '6.
Stoppered bottles ... 17/6 and 35/-.
“201 " Morny Eau de Cologne.
2 oz. bottles, 1/9 ... 4 oz. bottles. 3/3.
“ Morny ” Eau de Cologne is pro-
nounced by experts —“ Sans rivale."
The MORNY FINE BATH & PERFUME PRODUCTS
are retailed in Sydney by : —■
Civil Service Co-operative Stores of N.S.W., Ltd.,
152-154 Pitt Street; Farmer & Co., Ltd., 221-229
Pitt Street; David Jones Ltd., George Street; Las-
setters Ltd., George Street; Pattinson & Co., 427
George Street; Washington H. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt
Street; H. A. Rose & Co., 149 King Street.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia: —-
DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES LTD.,
Corner of Clarence & Market Streets, SYDNEY.
“Well gentlemen I take,
off my hat to you, —
m \
i. IHL..
such a beautifully
made rifle and such
shooting I never
expected to see...
Up to 800 yards I
could hit anything
I shot at... I killed
a big bull, over 500
yards away, and did
it so easy... The
' Ross * is good
enough for me... It
has a nice balance,
is light and has a
will say to anyone who is looking for the
best thing in Rifles get a ‘Ross* .280,
and you will never be disappointed.”
JAS. L. McLAUGHLIN, Hunter and Guide,
Valley, Wyoming.
In his enthusiastic praise of the Ross .280
Rifle, Mr. McLaughlin echoes the apprecia-
tion of the most skilled of the big game
hunters all over the world. Using the .280
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper tube
expanding bullet ( patented ) it is a wonderful
help towards a successful trip. Any game
fairly hit is anchored. 1015
AT LEADING DEALERS
Illustrated catalogue sent on request.
ROSS RIFLE CO., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from —
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
&
“The
Anzac.”
A Boot for Service.
A long-wearing, easy-fitting, well-
finished Boot, regulation military Cos-
sack pattern, in extra-stout Tan Calf
with full water-tight tongues, strong
wax-stitching in uppers.
30/-; also at 25/- and 19/6.
We pay postage. Catalogue free.
For Distinctive Footicear,
135 Ring Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. w
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the tw r>
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE , . 87 PITT STREET, SYD\IiY'° nUS '
Directors :—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman- H™ n ,
Rinei.- \r r r\ ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox Eso rn
?rn, Esq. ’ “ 4 '’ '•
Black. M.L.C
Samuel Hordern
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secret
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000. 6 ' y ‘
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £2O 670 000
The Societv issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write fnr ’ , '
and full information without delay. ,or P ros Pectns
r
JLS
# •§
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them", what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. Qnf the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the "day and one eye on the ultimate sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting ard so easy that they feel just like one’s 'best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well made that they look and. after quite
a lot of wear, continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Bostoek No.
P 6472
None genuine
unless stamp; (1
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock’’ on the soles.
S 3
~
■
i
m
35?
•v<rr-i
A
•§g \
J 3-n
'•■• •<
a
rtiSK:
«
m***"
m
r
■ -
PK
■fil
It
W '
D 5
■
✓
SSftli
i^'iS
tes?
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. have been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
srerme
Proven Remedy
N eurasthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine h s received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely agedNe w Life and Energy.
See what a well-known Medical Man writes :
DR. GORDON-STABLES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes:
“1 have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility (
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Messrs. Ashton !& Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your courtesy if, being set-red
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the package to 4QB Collins street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in jits place, and the , cost of pos ago
refunded to you.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Law*.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Q uee
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist,
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office: „
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. T. C. TROEDSOX. Director^
“D.F.”: Here’s a cheap cure for sea-sick-
ness. At one time I and a couple of mates
used to knock about a good deal in small
boats on the east coast'of Tassy. We often
had to take dogs along, and if it was at all
rough the brutes suffered as badly as if
they had paid for their tickets. But we
found that if we shoved them in a bag at
the start they became excellent sea dogs.
Why not try the same dodge on human pas-
sengers? It would save the stewards’ flat
feet, the poor voyagers would have all the
seclusion they yearned for, and the able-
stomached would not be plagued with the
sight of green-and-yellow countenances peer-
ing out of rugs.
“Lee-oli” on an old-timer: —
Auckland’s last, loneliest South Sea trading
schooner is sold out of the trade and goes to Wel-
lington to get dirty as a coal-hulk. The Ysabel is
the one survivor of a fleet of beautiful craft —fore-
and-afters, topsail schooners and brigantines—rigged
and run in real yachting style,- that traded out of
the Waitemata to the Eastern and Western Pacific.
She has dodged coral reefs and weathered tropic
squalls for 43 years, first as a mission craft, and then
as an ordinary godless, copra-hunting, Kanaka-carrying
trader. The owner-skipper, old William Ross, bought
her for £BOO and make a dozen times that much
out of her before he clewed up his topsails for a
shore life the other day. The old heart-of-kauri
packet is curiously narrow-gutted in build; she was
built for steam-power originally and, in light trim,
was as cranky as a Maori prophet. But Ross knew
to a hair-curling what she’d stand. I’ve seen him
sitting on the weather rail, cheerfully warbling a
Kanaka chantey, while the hooker was lying down
to it, with the white water washing her lee hatch-
coamings. Once she scooted from Savage Island
to Auckland, 1500 sea miles, in six and a half days.
She went one better that time than the Torea, which
cut out the passage from Auckland to Savage Island
and back in'seven days each way.
“Biog”: Ages of some Sydney Uni. Pro-
fessors: Francis Anderson (mental philoso-
phy), 57; 11. S. Carslaw (mathematics),
46; T. W. Edgeworth David (geology), 58;
C. E. Fawsitt (chemistry), 38; W. A. Has-
well (biology), 61 ; M. W. MacCallum
(modern literature), 62; T. I*. Anderson
Stuart (physiology), 60 next June; W. 11.
Warren (engineering). 64; B. D. Watt
(agriculture), 35; J. T. Wilson (anatomy),
55; G. Arnold Wood (history), 51; and W.
J. Woodhouse (Greek), 50 next November.
Leo Acland, of Canterbury (M.L.), who
now -wears the Military Cross, towers five
feet nothing. After gaining credit for his
S. African fighting he went hunting big
game in India, where a tiger made off with
his arm and almost his life. The arm went
for good, but the life was preserved by a
bearer, who with most other people liked
the successful little sheep-runner. Then the
European row began and Acland got to the
Front on transport service, despite his han-
dicap, and gained the Cross for bravery in
the field.
“The Wanderer” : What about this for a
family record? Mr. and Mrs. James Had-
ley, of Forster (N.S.W.), have had a family
of 19, and of these 17 are going strong.
The 17 are: Mrs. Lucy Schubert (mother
of 15, with three sons at the war) ; E. J.
Hadley (with a family of eight, three at the
war, and enlisted himself) ; Mrs. Geo.
Schubert (mother of 10, two at the war) ;
Arthur, single, freezing in Maoriland; Fred,
of Tinonee, near Wingham (father of six) ;
Anna, single; Abe, of M.L.; Charley, mar-
ried ; Harry, single; Albert (three children) ;
Herbert (skipper of a coaster) ; Ernie (four
children) ; Walter (three children) ; Thorn-
ton, single (at the war) ; Harold, single (at
the war) ; Milton, married (two children) ;
and Vera, single, residing at home. The
eldest of the family is about 56; the youngest
about 24. Mr. Hadley, sen., is fit and well
at 75, and so is his wife, 73.
“Weather Watcher” burrows in the dust:
In March, 1840, Philip Ilervey, convict, was sent
by Sir George Gipps, Governor of N. S. Wales, to act
as Government Meteorologist for Port Phillip. This
appointment was the first of its kind in Melbourne.
Hervey commenced his duties at Flagstaff Hill, along-
side the old Flagstaff, which had been erected the
same year in the West Melbourne Gardens. He
received the highest commendation from his imme-
diate boss, the harbor-master, who regarded him as
proficient and painstaking. At that time there were
only two weather stations in Australia —the first ai
South Head, Sydney ; the other this one at Flagstaff.
The latter commenced taking records of rain, wind,
barometer and thermometer readings on April 1,
1840. Monthly summaries were published in the
N.S.W. Government Gazette to show Sydney people
that the white man could live in the South. Hervey,
having been succeeded by a Mr. Scott, was appointed
to a clerkship in the Surveyor-General’s office. His
allowance as -meteorologist had been Is. 6d. per diem.
Nothing is said about rations, but as flour was then
£6O per ton, and bread 2s. a loaf, he probably got
the usual tucker allowed to employed convicts. He
couldn’t have lived on steaks cut off the north wind
or collected secret commissions on the rainfall.
“Biog”: Other Australians who have sat
in the House of Commons are the late Robert
Richard Torrens, formerly of S. Aus., author
of the Torrens or Real Property Act, who
sat for Cambridge borough from 1868 to
1874; and the late Samuel Wilson, the
wealthy Victorian who rented Beaconsfield’s
Hughenden Manor and was elected for Ports-
mouth in 1886.
There is no suppressing some of Adelaide's
ancients. One J. Giles, who is in his 94th
year, talked to an interviewer the other day
of jumping the fence into his neighbor’s back
yard merely to prove that he wasn’t as old
as his years. When the interviewer found
him he was kneeling in the rain plying a pair
of shears on his lawn at Payneham. A
shearer in the early ’so’s, he is keeping fit
just in case he is wanted to take the place
of some young shearer-volunteer in the
crowded days that are coming.
Two sons of W. A. Phillips. Anglican rec-
tor of Glen Huntly (Vic.), will never come
back from Gallipoli; but that didn’t prevent
a third son from selling his business in a
Sydney suburb the other day and getting
into khaki. He is now in camp near Mel-
bourne, and will go with dad’s blessing to
wrestle with Kaiser Bill as soon as the
Defence Department will let him.


“I condemn no honest medicine -
but when your life, or that of your child is at stake do not experiment
with new preparations or waste your time trying to mix home decoctions.
Get a medicine of known reliability and established reputation, one that is
sure to give quick relief, such as
E £ B GaZ&O Mt?
% COUCH REMEDY #
Anyone will realise tlie seriousness of
neglecting a cold if he observes the results of
such neglect among his acquaintances. How
often have von heard : ‘He caught a cold,
did not do anything for it and it turned into
’ then some dreaded disease is named.
Ordinary coughs yield to prompt treat-
ment at the beginning. That is why every
family should be supplied with a reliable
cough medicine —one that will heal raw and
inflamed surfaces, loosen the phlegm, allay
irritation, ease the hoarseness and stop the
tickling sensation in the throat that does not
pefmit one to sleep. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is just such a medicine.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is invalu-
able for the relief of coughs, colds, croup,
whooping cough, tickling in the throat,
tightness or soreness, influenza and bronchial
coughs. It contains no harmful ingredient,
it is healing, soothing, efficient and pleasing.
tyjcrUhsl Jo*
“YOUR MONEY BACK.”
This is what Chamberlain’s say to all
who may use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
and are not satisfied after using two-thirds
of a bottle. ‘ Your money back if not
satisfied ’ is an argument that cannot be set
aside. It shows at once their sincerity and
convinces you that there is no risk in trying
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Is there another concern in the world
that says : ‘ Use our medicines according to
directions and if yon are not satisfied return
what is left and get your money back ? ’
No, not one.
Remember, when you buy Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy you are buying the
best, safest and most successful medicine
known for coughs, colds, croup, whooping
cough, influenza and bronchitis.”
OFFICIAL ENDORSEMENT.
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy is the only
cough remedy sold in Australasia that has
been officially declared free from all narcotics.
This is a guarantee of safety to mothers of
small children. So be sure and see that you
get the genuine Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Nltnd3QWt/M7 ANWWii;
(0
*4*'
-t '+■
sQ/V
\\ \M
55^.9
*,xo
'J«
4.0/
IW3
0^
:<o
Vf
/ D
////o
Y 6 4T
v °\f
W-WV |A
45
mM
Slim
mmm
......
swem
V *
SK&jggg;
m
111
•^wflSiv:v:^;;;;:- ,:: '
Si’OO HXHOAVXVAY
ac/ci
€€
TI-SARKIN
99
LET US SEND YOU
BY RETURN POST A
POSITIVELY TAKES FAT OFF. SAFE TO USE I
ABSOLUTELY HARfILESS.
FREE SAMPLE
There are many
reasons why you
should get rid of
all that EXCESS
FAT
Excess fat injures your health, impedes your move-
ments, and makes you the joke-butt of your unfeeling
normal-weight friends. People who are excessively
fat never feel well and vigorous like normal folks. You know this is true.
People who have been fat and are now reduced to normal, think other fat people
ridiculous. Excess fat, also, impedes the heart action, rendering its functions
difficult, and interferes with the breathing. Not alone does excess fat injure your
health and endanger your existence, it absolutely destroys your figure and makes
you a ludicrous sight. Why (lo you stay over fat?
“TI-SARRIN ”
positively removes excess fat
and will restore your spoiled
figure to genteel and pleasing proportions, and is always a sure and lasting cure
for obesity and corpulency. A few doses improves your breathing wonderfully, and
the course of treatment will cure you. It is the only successful and at the same
time harmless fat-reducer that has ever been discovered. Its efficacy has been
undeniably demonstrated in thousands of successfully treated cases. It is totally
and absolutely non-poisonous, and can in no wise work any injury to the general
health, even though it often reduces excess weight by as much as a pound a day.
On the contrary, improved conditions in the general health become noticeable in less
than a week after its use is begun. Guarantee given
“ TI-SARKIN” is not a patent pill sold regardless of individual
sy??iptoms, but is a scientific treatment in each special case.
Obesity cannot be cured bv drastic purging pills. Don't use them.
Sandgate, Queensland.
Manager, Watworth Co.
Dear Sir, —When I wrote you in July last my niece
was rapidly improving under your treatment. She was
then over 15 stone in weight, but, has since been reduced
to truly genteel proportions, and is now a very pleasing
figure. She continued her usual diet while under treat-
ment and was in no way inconvenienced, and I am
truly grateful to you for the result, for before the
treatment she was absolutely devoid of any semblance
of a figure, a burden to herself and friends, and un-
happy generally. She has reduced considerably over
three stone, and her health has improved to a splendid
extent.—Yours respectfully, M. CEAMB.
GET A FREE SAMPLE.
It does not matter how far away you live, we can treat you
and reduce you successfully by post. We want you to see what
hundreds say of “Ti-Sarkin” after using it. We want you
to know all about it.
SEND 2d. STAMP FOR FREE TRIAL. If you cannot call,
send a 2d. stamp and let us send you a free sample and a very
interesting booklet on the subject of obesity. We will post
same to you in plain package, and free from observation. IF
YOU CAN CALL, we will weigh you privately and supply all
particulars. LADY ATTENDANT and private rooms for inter-
views. Write or Call to-day.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily. Saturdays till 12.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
1903 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
i
m
■n
CSOBS)


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIV O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
ifATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE 1)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
"J*IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
THE ONLY HORACE GOLDIN,
The Royal Illusionist.
Also, MENNETTI AND SIDELLI, MUSETTE,
EVERARD, LEYWOOD AND NOHELL, MARGARET
JEWELL, HAY AND CRAWFORD, VIOLET
TREVENYON.
Plan at Glen’s.
HE R MAJES T Y 7 S, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Annual Pantomime Extravaganza,
MOTH IS 11 GOOSE.
A HOST OF NEW ARTISTS. A RIOT OF FUN.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales, Callose’s.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
d&M.TAITS NEWENCLISH t?
PEG,
OM Y
A COMEDY OF YOUTH
by cJ.HARTLEY MANNERS!
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OFSUCCESSES
Box Plans now open at Nicholson’s.
RITEKION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Dramatic Attraction for
1916, introducing
The Brilliant London Emotional Star Actress,
MADGE FABIAN
in
ON TRIAL.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
\A/I KTH S’ NE W HIPPODROME,
vv HAYMARKET.
Campbell and Hay Streets (between George and
Pitt Streets), Sydnev.
NIGHTLY, AT 8 * NIGHTLY.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS AND
HOLIDAYS.
LAST TWO WEEKS. LAST TWO WEEKS.
And then the Circus is going out on tour, and you
must see it before it goes. You mustn’t miss
CAPT. HULING’S SEALS,
The Only Troupe of Riding, Wire-walking and
Music-playing Seals in the World.
A NEW AND NOVEL PROGRAMME.
WIRTIIS’ CIRCUS. WIRT US' CIRCUS.
Prices: Arena Stalls and Dress Circle 6/-, Stalls
4/-, Back Stalls 3/-, and Family Circle 2/-.
Children Half-price to all parts.
BOOK EARLY. BOOK EARLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Hotel Australia.
Cars and Carriages, 10.30. ’Phone, 1234.
COMING SHORTLY, “KULTUR,” a Wonderful War
Drama and Spectacle.
\V. BARRINGTON MILLER, General Manager
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
triangle plays at
' THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prices; 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
"THE PICTURE li LOCK THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
crystal palace, lyric, colonial, empress.
Ihe Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER .1. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
AY. Bariuxotox Miller. General Manager.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
SO LONG, LE I TY.
A WHIRLWIND OF GAIETY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Missing Friends.
1 > ELATIVES of JAMES GRAHAM,
LA/ miner, who died at Marranboy,
Northern Territory, on 22nd April, 1915,
are requested to communicate with the
Public Trustee, Darwin, N.T. Deceased
James Graham is supposed to have had a
sister residing in South Australia.
THE STIIIO@B£P
An Optical Wonder. Imparts to Colored Photo-Engravin
remarkable perspective effects, just like a high-
class stereoscope. Trees, buildings, animals and
persons, stand up solid and dis-
tinct, amazingly “ life-like.” The
Stereograph with 12 Pictures'
•nly One Shilling post paid
anywhere. Hundreds of Views
to select from at only 6d. for Ten.
The Union Co., 2»3 Elizabeth Jot.. Melbourne.|
THF GREAT HANDCUFF ESCAPE
I Become a Famous Man of Mystery and make
a Big Income. Send One Shilling for full details
of this marvellous trick. Defy the police or
anybody to hold you with their own handcuffs.
No confederate or faked handcuffs used. It*s
easy when you know how. Will send free
description of Eight Amazing Mysteries that have
puzzled the entire world and made the repu-
tations of all the most celebrated magicians.
Jfhe UNION CO., 299jLlizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE,
1 Direction .1 C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 20.
D. W. GRIFFITHS’ MIGHTY SPECTACLE,
Til Vj 13111T1I OF A NATION
The World’s Greatest Picture Production.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
p KIN CESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
FIRST PRODUCTION NEXT SATURDAY.
GEORGE MARLOW presents GERALD GRIFFIN,
Ireland’s Sweetest Singer, in a new play, entitled,
THE IRISHMAN.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
ING’S THEATRE, M E L B O U R N E.
Lessees BERT HAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 20.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE BERT BAILEY CO.
in
THE FAMILY CUPBOARD
The New York Comedy Drama by Owen Davis.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THE AUDITORIUM,
1 MELBOURNE.
Direction ROLAND STAVELY.
THE OFFICIAL
FRENCH GOVT. WAR PICTURES
SHOWING THE FRENCH FIGHTING FRONT.
EVERY EVENING AND MATINEES.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Amusements.
BIJOU T H E A X It E, M EL 15 O U It N E.
FULLER’S THEATRES k VAUDEVILLE LTD
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
CHARLEBURT BROS. AND ESSIE, PARIS
GREEN, THE ASTELLES. MAGGIE MOORE.
THE NEAPOLITANS, GEORGE MURPHY, BILLY
WELLS AND ECLAIR TWINS, MANDENO’3
CANINE MARVELS.' LA VEEN AND CROSS, JEN-
NINGS AND GERALD.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
QIACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND
EVENING.
uom PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
eiRCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to.
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.'
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
m
■
ye
Can
Restore the Voice with
EVAN
antisepticTH ROAT
Pastittes
allaying all irritation of
the throat and clearing the
voice perfectly.
Evans Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd., London.
m
' •>
Repeating and
Autoloading
Rt m u l 8$ toI i
Shotguns
and Cartridges
are displayed by leading dealers
everywhere. Our new catalogue
explains their merits and a trial
will convince even the skeptical.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co»
Woolworth Building, New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W., London
CAILLE 1916 MODEL 5-SPEED
OUTBOARD MOTOR-
With Bosch High-tension Magneto.
Ihe motor that you do not have to stop and
start the reverse way to go astern—you just
press, the button to go astern, ahead, or
remain stationary without stopping engine.
Improved Silencer, etc., etc.
Caille Yankee Outboard Motors with
Battery and H.T. Magneto Ignition.
Caille Marine Engines, 2 to 8 h.p. in stock.
SCRIPPS 4-CYCLE ENGINES.
LATEST models just landed.
All Spare Parts and Complete Boat Equipments Supplied
Sole Australasian Agents i
Benson Brothers Limited,
51-53 Pruitt Street, SYDNEY; 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
NEW CURE FOR BILIOUSNESS.
Torpid liver is usually the cause nf n
drowsy uncomfortable feeling, and the M ,
or ambition and energy ofteh f e lt I,! ~
vy* m yn***".* confe rs
ends in a bad bilious attack. 3la l}
Pinkettes, the new laxative, give excel!
results in cases of torpid liver ami i,n; ™
ness. They have a specific a c £ ST
liver and speedily banish the feelin- tf
lassitude and weariness. They are effective
without being drastic and they have 1
of the bad effects of strong purgatives. PiX
ettes also regulate the stomach and fiw
correct bad breath; clear the complexion’
and are an excellent remedy to use duS
colds and fevers. Send your name 2
THE re ßD?L r rim "sliif 1 sampl ?'
IHE BULLETIN. Sold everywhere, Is , J
bottle,_ or post paid from the Dr. William?
Medicine Co., of Australasia, Ltd, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRaH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ’
Branches in all parts of the world.
Music’s Re-creation
by the Edison
Diamond Disc
Phonograph
Music re-created—that’s exactly what the
Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph does.
It has been amazing huge audiences of
American musicians by matching—tone
for tone, in all the finest and most ex-
quisite shadings—the voices and instru-
ments of the world's most famous singers
and instrumentalists.
Christine Miller, Anna Case, Albert
Spalding, Arthur Middleton, Jacques
Urlus and others have each sung or
played; then the Diamond Disc has
taken up the strain—and the reproduction
has been indistinguishable from the
artist’s original effort.
Were the instrument and records speci-
ally made? No: they can be purchased
from any Edison dealer.
Write for catalog of this unique and
delightful instrument; posted free.
THOS. A. EDISON, LTD.,
564-372 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
wd
*NO|R»
I
c^»axc
at mix
s
-^s-s^Z
Medical
Opinion
is unanimous that
Horlick’s Malted
Milk contains all the
essentials of a Per-
fect Food-Drink
(Milk, Wheat and Malt). It is
easily di?estei, very nutritious,
and most palatable
HORLICiCS
MALTED
MILK
Write for sample, sending 2d. In
stamps, to Hutchinson & to. Ltd.,
26 Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Sharland & Co. Ltd.. Lome St., Auck-
land, & Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z.
ASK FOR
HORLICK S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.


baby loves his bath
With Cuticura Soap and Wants It.
It’s So Soothing for Hot Skins.
These fragrant super-creamy emol-
lients are a comfort to children. The
Soap to cleanse, purify, and prevent,
the Ointment to soothe and heal rashes,
itchings, chafings, etc.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sold throughout the world.
Md Tyres That
dive M Service
A
heavy load over
rough byways
only emphasises
the sterling merits ot
BARNET
GLASS
TRUCK
TY RES
They are built to give solid
service and to maintain the
"quality reputation" of the
makers.
They succeed in both !
Miles Cheaper and
Australian
CtC
UfS
PABNET ALAS RUBBER CH 1 *
/ALL STATES & rtEW ZEALAND
Are You Deaf?
If so, you can be
relieved by using
WILSON’S C3MMON-SENSE EAR-DRUMS
A new scientific invention, entirely different in
construction from all other devices. A ? sl *„
the deaf when all other devices fail, and %\her
medical skill lias given.no relief. 1 hey are
soft, comfortable and invisible; have no wne
or string attachment.
_ Write for Booklet. Mention this lapei.
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 498, Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfoit.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart, 'lo keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user
tobacco in any form absolutely abando
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous } »
■ and aids nature in entirely eliminating
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and wewill P SnoK°LET
FREE SAMPLE, also our l REE lSDUlvijiv i
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr. Frank Ford (lilackall P. 0.,
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 60 years,
but after taking your treatment for V, days
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. ’ SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
/*% • _ f\
{J't fff ■'¥
'v\w>\»"''
m
2
0
9
V
8
BIG BEN
7
5
e
22
1
For an On-Time Breakfast
Set Big Ben for that
“ Sunday - morning -
feeling ” at the work-
day breakfast. Ample
time to prepare it
properly, lots of time
to eat it comfortably,
a while for the morn-
ing paper.
It makes rising easier
when you know your
alarm clock is on the
square. Big Ben is strict-
ly truthful regarding time.
He lets you sleep to the
very last minute. When
that time is up, Big Ben’s
call is cheerful, wakeful.
Big Ben is seven inches
tall, well built, handsome,
punctual.
He has a big, easily read
dial a cheerful, deep
toned voice large com-
fortable winding keys—a
light running movement
with watch-like escape-
ment—an alarm that calls
steadily for five minutes
or intermittently for
ten.
Big Ben undergoes a hundred
inspections in the making and
six rigid timing tests before
leaving the factory of the Western
Clock Co., LaSalle, 111., U.S. A.,
Makers of Westclox. At all
clock dealers, price 12/6; postage
1/- extra.
Rheumatism
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benefit
has yet to be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczema,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation ot
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one ot
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
uschen Saits
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
The Inky Way.
Tlie headquarters of the A.J.A. have been
moved to Melbourne, in charge of general
secretary George Brickhill, a hard-headed
Are man with an intimate knowledge of
arbitration matters. BrickhiU’s most
strenuous work during his two-years’ tenure
of office will be the preparation of the
journalists’ arbitration case. The Journal-
ist, of which the gen. sec. is also editor,
has issued its first number since the change
was made. It is published from the Mel-
bourne office and is a more compact and
strictly-business paper than formerly -
much more of a trade-journal, with less
scissoring and greater brevity in contribu-
tions. Brickhill’s pals on the Age gave him
a farewell shaving mug the. other afternoon,
with a lot of hearty good wishes.
* *. * *
“Meat Axe” : There will be a great chance
for the headline experts in the event of
Casement, the traitor, being hanged. Obvi-
ously
Hoistin'g the Jolly Roger.
V * * •
“O’Phimerty”: Journalism was a merry
profession in the old Vandemonian days.
The Colonial Times, of Hobart, edited by
Robert Lathrop Murray and owned by the
Macdougalls, father and son, had a dispute
with the V.D.L. Chronicle. In its leading-
article of November 5, 1841, headed “The
Felon Press,” the Chro'nicle describes how
“we” went into action :
On going into town on Monday morning we met
the younger Macdougall, who was, no doubt, afraid
to venture down to our house, anticipating that hi 3
reception might not be pleasant, for it appears that
he had been for a considerable time lying in wait
upon the road, at a long distance out of the way of
the house. He approached us, and produced a paper,
asking us whether we had written an article in it;
upon which we rejoined, “Most certainly. He then
asked us whether we were “of the same opinion in
respect to it”—a curious question, evidently betray-
ing his anxiety to avoid the alternative to which. he
had screwed up his nerves. We answered that “of
course we were, 55 ' whfen lie drew forth ci dog - whip
from his breast and commenced an assaultT'but as we
struck him he retreated and put down his head, hold-
ing his arms across his face. In endeavoring to get
an opening at him we closed with him and in the
struggle threw him on the ground ; but being many
stone heavier than us he succeeded after a little in
getting us under, when, keeping his whole weight
upon us and seizing us with all his force bv the
throat, he held us down for several minutes, asking
us whether we would meet him like a gentleman;
to which the only answer we could bring ourselves to
give was the promise that if he allowed us to rise we
should let him know. At last, entertaining appre-
hensions that he might be involved in danger likely
to result from his violence, he released his hands.
AVhile we were getting up Macdougall struck at us
with the lash of the broken whip. Although, of
course, much exhausted we made towards him, when
he retreated back several yards and said that he did
not want to fight. Thus issued the young Macdougall s
valor.
But you should dig out and read the contem-
porary’s story of the quarrel! I can’t, by
the way, discover who wrote the Chronicle
article,' but he was a master of the long sen-
tence. The first yell streams along for lb
closely-printed lines.
* * * *
“Nemo” : The old Yorick is now mostly a
monument to the past literary life of Mel-
bourne. To us old hands it is almost teartul
to drop in during the afternoon. How often
I have been in the Club when it was over
Miss Oliver’s hotel in Coilins-street, opposite
the Town Hall! The men who used to
gather there are now few. The oldest mem-
ber at present is Watters ton, who, when I
knew him first, was a reporter on the Argus.
lie did some notable work for liis paper
abroad when he was on the reporting staff
—-I don’t care to say how long ago. If you
drop in now in the afternoon you may meet
Watterston there. Another original mem-
ber whom you are pretty sure to meet is
Bartrop who . in the long ago used to be
boss of’ the County Court department at
Melbourne. And sometimes you will rub
against R. 8. Smytlie, now S 3 and living at
Deepdene at his ease. The “much-travelled”
is an old Londoner, and if you mention
Higligate-on-the-Hill lie may take out his
handkerchief. He generally has a little audi-
ence around him.
* * * *
“D.F.” : It is doubtful whether the vague
“over half a century’s” service of J. Dobbs
with the Rockhampton paper constitutes a
record for these parts. W. J. McWilliams has
put in 52 years, with the Hobart Mercury ;
and that sounds more definite, anyhow.
* * * *
Ages of Adelaide’s leading literary men :
Langdon Bonython (proprietor and editor of
Advertiser) 67; Fred Robertson (associate
ed. of Advertiser) 57; W. J. Sowden (ed.
of Register) 58; Robert Burns (associate
ed. of Register) 57; A. 11. Young ( Adver-
tiser leader-writer and reviewer), in the
region of 50; Fred Johns, who gives Aus-
tralia its best biographical books of refer-
ence, 47; E. 11. Coombe, M.H.A. (ed. of
Daily Herald), 57; C.- J. Stevens (late
assoc, editor of Register, and still a bril-
liant writer) 58.
“ANTICIPATED.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit me clown and write a tale
Adventurous and fine,
Anticipating speedy sale.
Great glory will be mine.
The plot is quaint, the people new
It's finished in a day or tiyo.
Then comes The Bulletin to hard. |
My luck is fierce indeed.
All writing men will understand —
Another's yarn I read !
There set out, almost line for line,
Is that infernal tale of mine 1
I knocked off in a happy strain
A merry little skit
Done somewhat in the Leacock vein,
With more abundant wit.
The editor my hopes reversed
“Regret another got in first!”
I make a poem long or short,
The finest thing in years.
A rhyme, alike in shape and thought,
By someone else appears !
I pray all day may Satan twist
This telepathic plagiarist!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


We Sell only RELIABLE SPORTING GOODS.
Our Motto: “Goods Right—Prices Right.” -
A SAT/SF/ED CUSTOMER is our best advertisement, THAT’S WHY we endeavor to always satisfy,
TENNIS REQUISITES. || GOLF MATERIAL.
&
if MM Jiff
(111
F I 111 HA
*
3 '
tr
RACKETS.
(Postage on one racket: N.S.W., 9d.
other States, 1/2.)
We specially recommend our M.S.
Haymarket Rackets and Balls as
being absolutely the best value
procurable.
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each.
Dunlop Champion 1/6
Haymarket Special 1/8
Ayre's Champion 1/8
Slazenger's Cham-
pion
Doz.
16 6
18/6
19/-
1/8 19/-
XETS.
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, full size, 5/6, 8/6, 11/6, 13/6
Steam Tarred and Waterproof, wire head line —
13/6, 16/6, 22/6. 27/6, 33/-
Our stock of Golfing Requisites is unsurpassed, and comprises
Clubs, Balls, etc., by the world’s leading makers.
CLUBS.
Postage on one club: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
M.S. Drivers and Irons.. 5/6, 7/6 Brassies .. 5/6, 8/6
Auchterlonie Drivers and Irons 8/- Brassies 9/-
Simpson’s Drivers and Irons.. 7/6 Brassies 8/-
J. Braid's Drivers and Irons 8/- Brassies 9/-
Cann and Taylor’s Irons 7/-, 8/- Brassies 9/-
Spalding’s Irons & Drivers 5/6, 7/9 Brassies .. 5/6. 9/6
Braid Mills’ Aluminium Putters 10/6
Patrick Bulldog Spoons, Ladies’ favorite 10/6
BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Watson’s No. 10 3/- 347-
Silver King (Yel.
Dot) 3/. 35/.
Silver King (Black
Dot) 3/- 35/-
White Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Midget Dimple .. 3/3 387-
Domino Dimple 3/3 387-
Black & White
Dimple 3/3 387-
Challenger King 3/3 397-
Arch Colonel .. 3 / 6 397-
Glory Dimple .. 4/3 48/-
CADDY BAGS.
Waterproof Canvas, leather bottom and slings—
7/6. 9/-, 12/6, 14/6
Solid Hide, best quality 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
For full particulars of Tennis,
Golf and all Sporting Materials,
see our illustrated Sports List.
Post free to any address.
HAYMARKET
•SY&NEY-
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
JJ
U l
P'S-*
*>>
Si
e are Specialists in all kinds of I
SPORTING REPAIR WORK.
A
Special
Appeal
Mother and Child.
Baby 6% months.
Fed from birth cm the ‘ Allenhurys' Foods
»•
on Behalf of Baby
Naturally a Healthy Mother
should feed her own child, and no cause, save inability,
should prevent her doing so. But there are many
mothers who, though willing, cannot wholly or even
partially, nurse their children. Either they have no
milk for them, or it is poor in quality and deficient
in sustenance.
The Question then arises
what food should be given to Baby. Carefully consider
this highly important point. Remember, that the
right food, giyen at the proper age will lay a sure
foundation for future health and happiness. Ordinary
cow’s milk is totally unsuitable as a food for young
infants; it is acid, contains indigestible curd and is
frequently swarming with dangerous germs, especially
in summer time. Farinaceous Foods must not be given, as
a child under seven months of age cannot digest starch.
A Satisfactory Solution
of the difficult problem of feeding children by hand is
provided by using the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. Prepared
as directed, these pure Foods closely resemble healthy
mother’s milk in composition, nutritive value and
digestibility. They are the outcome of prolonged
scientific investigation, carried out with all the resources
of wide manufacturing facilities and experience.
Decide to use
the Allenburys Foods. By so doing the many serious
ailments which folllow the use of unsuitable food will
be avoided, and Baby will be equipped with sound
health and strength.
The Method of Simplicity and Certainty
Menburgs Foods
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2. MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From birth to 3 months. Front 3to 7 months. From 7 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks (Malted).
A useful addition tc baby's dietary when io months old and after.
Write for free book “Infant Feeding and Management”
64 pages of valuable information for every mother.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., 13, Market St., Sydney
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, nib in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
CURLY HAIR.
“WAYCTRL” imparts Beautiful PER-
MANENT CURLS. One packet sufficient, how-
ever listless your hair. One testimonial says: “My
hair soon became a mass of wan curls.” Resuit cer-
tain. Price 2/9. Special reduction for few weeks.
Send 1/6 only for large-size 2/9 packet. The
New Wavcurl Co.. 67 Cromwell House,
Fulwood Place, Holborn, London, W.C., England. [2
M
: i
WRIGLEYSk?
SPEARMINT
Jhe
AVOR
PERFECT GUM
►
r[A§xs
I
Remember! J
When you’re hot and tired,
head awhirl, appetite gone,
digestion poor, throat
parched
Remember then
WRIGLEYSt.
wEnMni ►
44 r* hO XV «t Otfflt* AirAMBT m am! M '
“ Chew it after every meal ”
This famous Chewing Sweet
quenches thirst, soothes the
throat, steadies stomach
and nerves.
Its delightful mint flavor
refreshes and benefits wonderfully.
3d. per packet of five big bars, at
Chemists, Confectioners and Stores.
Sample packet by post for three penny stamps from
J. C. GAMBLES & CO., Commerce House, Melbourne.
Ask for “ WRIGLEY’S MOTHER GOOSE ” Book, free.
Be Sure It's Wrigley’s.
. Made in Australia
8 FOR AUSTRALIANS I
™ ™ BY AUSTRALIANS 1


Miss Vera Spaull is a
Rexona Girl —Are You?
r-i
?
A \
«
Miss. VERA
SPAULL
(from a
photo, by
Kenelm
Stump).
MISS VERA SPAULL has en-
deared herself to Australians as
Mytyl in “The Blue Bird;” as
The Little Mother in “The Fatal
Wedding,” and as Bobby in “Seven
Little Australians.” She has a
phenomenal memory, and has
appeared as lead in over twenty
dramas and comedies.
Miss Spaull is a true
Rexona girl and writes as
follows: —
Rexona is a glori-
ous soap. I regard
it as absolutely the
best I can buy. It
seems to protect the
skin against sun
and wind and re-
moves any tempo-
rary skin blemish
caused by ill-health.
I also think the
world of Rexona
Ointment. For
cuts and skin
troubles of all kinds
there is nothing to
approach it. It re-
lieves and then
cures so quickly.
Rexona Soap and
Rexona Ointment
are indeed twin
blessings. I find the
Soap is delightful
as a shampoo. It
cleans and invigo-
rates the scalp per-
fectly and leaves
the hair so soft and
glossy. Wishing you
success.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) VERA SPAULL.
Everybody’s Using Them Now
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. They are universal favorites with everyone who
values a pure and healthy skin. R.exona will at once heal all the minor injuries
to the skin as well as the more serious ones, and Rexona Soap protects the user
from disease and ensures both health and beauty. Rexona Soap is also unequalled
as a shampoo for the hair. Don’t forget, Rexona the Rapid Healer is sold in
triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/- and Rexona Soap at 1/- per
tablet, so try them to-day.
o
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
The JoJiywells
JOJ
l.a>:
asm
The Jollyicells keen
Have always been
Of Evening Sports
King and Queen.
In Fancy Dress
With Cousin Bess
They dance till late,
M 7 e must confess.
A supper light
Is their delight —
“ Re x” Goods again —
They're made just right.
“Be Bright and Jovial
among your Guests
to-night,”
said the heavy one in Macbeth. And it is
written that the good Lady, believing it to
be the best course to pursue, served
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
after the banquet with a recommendation to her guests to give the good stuff
a further trial in their own manorial halls.
However, Shakespeare got the true facts slightly twisted —but there, let it pass.
Rex Luncheon Cheese is the most piquantly palatable cheese on the market.
It spreads like butter, makes delightful sandwiches, and a little after each
meal is a wonderfuL aid to good digestion. Moreover, it contains all the
valuable properties of perfectly matured Full Cream Cheese.
Buy it by name —Rex. Refuse substitutes. There’s a big difference not
only in taste, but in value. Sold Everywhere.
Other “REX” CANNED GOODS include:—
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
“Rex” Camp Pie, in tins.
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in Decorated Tins and Opal Porce-
lain Jars of British Manufacture.
“Rex” Brand Dard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
Temporarily out of Stock.
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Bunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins.
X Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
gllMf Curers of “ »*?ex ” Hams and Bacon ;
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
The Palace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I LOOKED into my lady’s wistful eyes.
“Love comes,” I said ; “Love goes, and
it were wise—
Since not to you or me is given skill
To capture Love one breath against her
will —
That we should part, nor sorrowful nor gay,
Knowing the joys she prodigals to-day
So soon and yet so surely pass away!”
Scarcely I breathed, and then her answer
came,
Thrilling my body with a rush of flame.
“Love is enough,” she said, “and cannot
die.”
Although I knew Love spoke, through her, a
lie
My heart was gladdened and my breath
came fast.
“Love is enough,” I said ; “and while it last,
The Future counts as little as the Fast.”
I led my lady down the flowery ways
Love spread for our delighting, and the
praise
Of our twin, throbbing hearts as amorous
fee
We gave to her in proof of loyalty ;
For all was as a dream, so utter fair,
We knew not if we dreamed, nor did we
care
Who smothered Thought' in Love’s delicious
hair.
But what crazed fancy prankt within my
brain,
Ajad ’wildered me with urge of luscious pain,
To build a palace in this holy place,
I cannot tell; yet, gazing on her face,
I know I felt that it was only right
That I should labor, e’en in Love’s despite,
To build for us this Palace of Delight.
I pilfered from the rose its wealth of hue ;
I filched the glistening diamonds of the dew ;
The splendor of the overarching skies
1 thieved to serve the ends of my emprise ;
With avid hands I scooped the sunset’s
blood,
And, blending each and other to my mood,
Fashioned my palace in this solitude.
* * * *
Turret, dome and bastion, cupola and spire,
Here the gleam of waters, there the glint of
fire;
Music, Pride and Madness, Wistfulness and
Pain,
All of these I blended, broke and blent again,
Till the thing was finished, fabric of my
hand,
Scornful of the Pleiades, insolently grand—-
Just as in my folly, I, a fool, had planned.
So I decked my lady, recking not of ill,
In a noble raiment, woven to my will —
Blue to almost sable, dazzle-wrought with
gold,
Hieroglyphic burdened, quaint and Egypt-
old ;
Then, in bridal murmur, tenderly I sighed,
“All we dream awaits us ; lady, do not bide!”
But my lady, wincing: “Are not flowers
fair?
Here are pleasant arbors, tender glades to
share;
Why desert the simple joys that here
abound,
Singing birds about us, sweetness all
around ?
Yon phantastic palace shudders me with
dread,
Seeming as if peopled with the eldritch
dead —
What for all its beauty? Love is here!” she
said.
But my heart was stubborn, thinking on its
scars,
Proud at having builded insult at the stars;
Here was place befitting Love’s triumphant
state
(So I deemed, defiant in the lists of Fate),
And, unto my lady : “Hush,” I said. “Your
fears
Are but sickly fancies; dry those timid
tears ;
Love is calling, calling—and to heedless
ears !”
So she came. I held her, throbbing, to my
side,
I the fearless bridegroom, she the fearful
bride.
“See,” I bade her gaily, “bravely through the
mist
How the palace glimmers welcome to our
tryst!”
“Nay,” she answered slowly, “or mine eyes
are blind,
All I see are dim shapes moving in the wind;
Presences impalpable, eerie, undefined!”
Nuzzling closer to me: “Who are these I
hear,
Following behind us, stealthily, as Fear?
Are they”—and her eyes lit with a pleading
ache—
“ Are they Dead Loves treading softly in our
wake?”
“They are Joys,” I told her, knowing that I
lied,
“Bidding us to hasten!” “Nay,” and she
replied:
“Love is dead, and Dead Loves may not be
denied !”
Then I saw my palace, cupola and spire.
Turret, dome and bastion shudder into fire,
Down from Heaven flaming, belching up
from Hell,
Till this Thing I builded into ruin fell;
. And a clutching darkness caught us in its
chill
While my lady nuzzled closer to me still.
Yet I cannot love her. . . .neither can I kill.
■ MAOKILAND.
BERNARD INGEEBY.
Ma-See-Up.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nnOMMY ALLIGATOR, the Binghi, had
been all things as a pearlshell-getter,
except a machine-diver, lie had picked
shell off reefs at low water until that very
shallow run of “alluvial” was exhausted;
then he had been a skin diver in a few-’
fathom water ; then shell-opening and pearl-
hunting on the supply schooner, and had
helped to collect £5OOO worth of pearls from
three tons of diseased and inferior shell; and
at long last had been relieved of the cease-
less monotony of lugger and schooner, the
endless rolling day and night, the chipping
with the shell knife, the stench of dead
oysters almost as bad as the stench of a
poogee tub filled with oysters liquefying in
corruption for the easier recovery of small
pearls.
After that he had been for six months
off-sider to a man who had a lugger, but
dived not; getting pearls, shell and copra by
trading with Binghis and New Guinea men,
combing the beaches and the sea for snail
shell, tortoiseshell, pearlshell, copra, ivory-
nuts, coal and copper-sheathing from wrecked
ships, old iron and fittings—a real marine-
store dealer and collector of sea produce and
junk from Croker Island to Sud-Est. Tommy
Alligator read the Coral Sea like an open
book. lie had been stung by catfish, escaped
sharks and the giant clam, missed the stone
fish by the sixteenth of an inch and a cold
sweat, admired the dorabo glittering like bars
of silver when hauled from the water and
dying in all the hues of the rainbow, and
hated the great reef eels, cruel and aggres-
sive as when the Romans threw slaves to the
murenae, which are the same as these pet
horrors of divers, who are merely contemptu-
ous of sharks.
And now One-Leg Bill, the trepanger, had
engaged him as overseer of a mob of blacks
who tended the boilers and smoke-houses and
the beche-de-mer therein on a gulf island
which has a real name on the charts, is
known locally by a name unfit for publica-
tion, and for which Pork Island is as good a
name as any other. Tommy Alligator had
had his share of diving for trepang —poised
for a -moment on the lugger looking down
through 30 feet of sap-green water, lucent
as air, before darting to a sandy sea floor,
white as new linen, dotted with the black
shapes of sea urchins, starfish, and with the
beche-de-mer of the epicure lying like black
cucumbers on the white bottom ; black teat
fish, red fish, crape fish, large lolly fish, red
prickly fish; green, red, yellow, surf, deep-
water, white, brown, leopard, cotton, yellow,
plumed and corrugated fish —all the variants
of trepang from see-ok-sum (black teat
fish), worth £l5O a ton, to chong-sum (large
lolly fish), worth but £35 a ton, and sand
fish, for which there is such little demand
that China, which eats almost all the beche-
de-mer soup of the world, has not troubled
to find a name for it.
lie had dived in depth for the highly-
priced fish and harvested the low-priced
stuff easity, and in a few feet of water, and
had gleaned the surfs for ba-doy-hur worth
£B5 a ton. And while diving with his re-
tinue of noisy blackboys, among small shoals
of parrot -fish —the female grass-green and
the males turquoise —-of trigger fish and
other leather-jackets with pink fins and
bodies striped green, yellow and blue, and
of poisonous blow-fish, he had weighed the
cause of the differences in the value of the
varieties of trepang, and was left wonder-
ing why the Chinese traders who bought
trepang in Port Darwin and Thursday
Island should decide instantly on the evi-
dence of their eyes. Why should they know
see-ok-sum from ma-see-up, hung-hur from
chah-sah-00, woo-sum from chong-sum and
chee-sum? It could be only on the differ-
ences of color.
It was a trouble to Tommv Alligator, for
he was too handy a man to be put off with
the usual Binghi pay of one pound a month,
and One-Leg Bill, the trepanger—a North-
ern lizard of a man sweated dry and burned
to the color of old mahogany, the neck lined
into squares like to those of the hide of
an alligator—recognised his value, and gave
.him two pounds a month wages, and also
jiaid him on the lay. Tommy Alligator was
ambitious to be a master trepanger himself,
with his own boats, his own islands, and un-
sophisticated men of his own skin diving
for him ; a dusky harem ashore of gins, and
old men to tend the fires under the boilers,
and smoke the snails over the fires of red
mangrove until they were like hard, black
lengths of rubber. He knew values, too,
did Tommy Alligator—knew that black
teat fish, the see-ok-sum of the Chinese
merchant, is worth £l4O to £lBO a ton, and
that the white variety of the see-ok-sum is
ma-see-up, worth but £4O a ton. There-
fore Tommy Alligator marvelled at the sini-
ster provision of nature which makes the
valuable difficult of attainment, and gives
ma-see-up for little and very careless effort,
and dead leaves, seaweed and the cast
shells of crabs for nothing. Also, being of
inquiring mixid and persevering character, he
determined to restore equilibrium to trepang
values by assisting nature or by foiling it.
One-Leg Bill took up his cargo of a little
hung-hur and see-ok-sum, and much of the
low-grade kinds of trepang; of green sea-
snail shell and tortoiseshell, on top of his
smaller cargo of pearlshell and ivory nuts.
He had also aigrettes of the water heron,
and birds of paradise smuggled out of New
Guinea, a little gold dust, and a pickle-
bottle half-full of poor pearls, mostly
baroques and blisters. He gave Tommy
Alligator final instructions and beat away
from Pork Island in the light and variable
winds, and so away through the Arafura
Sea to Port Darwin. There he found the
market up for see-ok-sum, hung-hur and
chah-sah-oo and down for the lower grades
of the sea-snail. He evened up the market
mentally, and protested against the order
of things by drinking, until, as he himself
expressed it, he was as full as a goose ; and
then he returned to-Hop War Sing and Co.,
who handled and exported his trepang, and
told them his exaggerated ideas concerning
(Continued on newt page.)


-V-
o
Require Prompt Dressing with ZAM-BUK
INSEPARABLE frtjm the rough, tearing work of the work-
shop, railroad, farm or cattle station are those every-
day cuts and luruises which may be neglected once too
often. Zam-Buk has brought to the worker new possibilities
in ••first aid.” Clean the skin round the wound or cut. and
promptly dress thke injury with Zam-Buk. Zam-Buk does
more than allay pain and inflammation: it prevents fester-
ing and blood-poisoning, and heals up your hurt quickly and
perfectly. Zam-Bmk is wholesome, and contains none of the
rancid animal fats that make old-fashioned ointments so
risky and useless. When you cut or scratch yourself the
best thing to do is to apply Zam-Buk. the powerful anti-
septic and healer.
CUT HIS HAND WHILE SAWING
Painful, Inflamed, Festering Wound Healed.
“While sawing, my husband inflicted a nasty wound in
his left hand with the saw.'’ says Mrs. F. Reid of Fleet
Street. Devonport. X.Z. “The wound inflamed and festered
up, and stubbornly refused to heal, notwithstanding the
various remedies and treatments we tried.
“At length we happened across Zam-Buk. and
were so encouraged with the marvellous benefits
derived from the firat applications that we con tinned
to apply this excellent balm. Zam-Buk drew all the
bad matter out of the sore, allayed all inflammation,
finally healing up the place with clean, healthy skin.”
Every Worker Needs ZAM-BUK
Zam-Buk is a uerfect remedy for eczema, ringworm,
ulcers, bad leg, bltftod poisoning, scalp disease, running
sores, festering wouands, sore feet, piles, scalp disease, rash,
and quickly heals cuts, burns, scalds, sprains, bruises,
scratches, and similar skin injuries. Zam-Buk is sold by
all stores and chemists at 1,6 and 3/6 per pot.
a
m
RUB
T
IN
-EveRTOOQYs mg
T TV *JT A ’
tTERULS ifid WORKMAN SHUI
IPERFECTIOM ia DESIGN, MATERIALS
V7~zm
Marine, Stationary and
Portable Engines
Unequalled in
Her. also I‘aj/e //.
SIMPLICITY,
ACCESSIBILITY,
RELIABILITY,
DURABILITY
and
ECONOMY.
XO Water Drip.
XO Cams. Valves or Gears to
get out of order and to repair.
XO skilled labor necessary.
Automatic Ignition.
Runs on Crude Oil, at less than
6d. per gallon.
Running Expenses less than half
of thoe of Benzine Engines.
Fuel Economy higher than that
of any other Cnide Oil Engine on the
market.
Designed for continuous hard
service.
More than 50 “Skandia" now running
in Australia and the Islands.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES and PRICES
TO-DaY!
fState Service and Horft-potrer Xecded,)
fs=-
HR
f"
Wy
kv
Ti
I
We Always
Stock these
Engines
From 4 to
600 HP.
Stationary
Type.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON.
Sole Agents for Australasia & Scuth Sea Islands,
11-17 Loftus Street, Sydney
5H
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The "Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation,
hand suited exactly.
'Swan safety”
Can’t L«*aK,
Blot. Miss,
or Scratch!
Every
The
Catalogue free on request-
MaiSIE. TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J A. BL Rkt
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and* Jewellers.
5 Primrose Buildings,
’.55* George sy^y-
7
If any illustration appearing i°
Buuxxix * hos your fancy write to th»
Manager, who will quote you price for it-
their dishonesty. To this they replied with
all the blandness of the shopkeeper the
world over for a profitable customer.
“Chinvman no buy ma-see-up. See-ok-
sum welly goo'! Ma see-up welly bad.
Chinvman no buy white fish, led plickly
fish, sand fish no wantchee. What can do?”
One-Leg Bill protracted his spree for a
fortnight, and then replied to the “What
can do" query by admitting it. and sailing
back on his ten days' voyage to Pork Island ;
hoping against hope that the cheaper and
almost unpayable varieties of trepang had
become extinct and that the sea-floor had
been paved in his absence by see-ok-sum,
solely for the fishery of One-Leg Bill. When
he did arrive at Pork Island and found his
wishes become apparent fact he almost
believed in the efficacy of prayer.
After the boss’s departure for Port Dar-
win Tommy Alligator thought until his head
seemed full of wheels. In the mornings on
the reefs, or on the lugger diving, he tried
to invent ways to make the rare the com-
mon. and convert twopence to a shilling.
But all his divers brought little of the deep-
water fish and much of the cotton fish, the
sand fish and ma-see-up. He saw nothing
but this necessity; not the great blue cup
of the sky. the dancing water, the livery of
scarlet and black worn by the parrot-fish in
their coral lagoons, nor the government
bream bringing with his broad-arrow mark
of red a Japanese color-scheme to the s(ip
green sea.
He went back to Pork Island; to the
rt res burning under the two hundred-gallon
tanks that held the boiling trepang, to the
laughing Binghis who gutted the fish and
tended the boilers ; and to the other Binghis
who lay smoking outside the smoke houses,
while the smoke of red mangrove wood
cured the fish. He went about his work
mechanjcally, thinking always of the low-
grade stuff which did not pay to ship.
Next day. in the attempt to escape from
this maddening thinking in a circle, he went
out with the wooding boat to cut red man-
grove for the smoke-houses.
The boat lost the way and furrowed gently
the blue mud about the mangrove: the
terrified crabs scuttled over the ooze, re-
volved frantically on their digging claws,
sank through the sandy mud. and pulled the
mofs of their houses over themselves. The
trapdoor oyster sank almost vertically into
the mud. A little runnel of fresh water
from the land came slowly to hide itself in
the sea ; Tommy Alligator saw in a puddle
of the fresh water a stain as of almost black
tea.
looking into the little puddle he saw a
strip of red mangrove bark: taking it up he
felt it rotten to the touch. So, as the wood-
ing boat sailed along the shore of Pork
Island to the trepang camp. Tommy Alliga-
tor thought again. But this time his
thoughts were not in a circle; they had a
direction and an end. He thought for half
the afternoon, and then he had the bark
stripped from the red mangrove wood, and
he experimented by macerating it in boiling
water.
Next morning he found the essence of the
bark had blackened the water, and he ex-
perimented on a larger scale and in a barrel.
And. two days later, being by this time
quite definite in his aims, he took all the
men that could be spared from the smoke-
house : and. leaving the boilers and the
gutting- to the gins, he sailed to his fishery.
There he sent all available men to dive, and
'tayed himself aboard, sorting the fish.
Ma-see-up. the white teat fish and the
unnamed sand fish were in plenty; see-ok-
sum seemed more scarce than ever. Yet as
Tommy Alligator sailed back with a. little
parcel of value and a good cargo of the
commonest, he was quite happy in the plea-
santest and least profitable of occupations
■<f all men—the counting of chickens before
they are hatched.
And then Pork Island knew a higher
energy than ever before. The usually-
complaisant Tommy Alligator drove his
people as if he were the leading man of a
white gang of laborers, with an extra shil-
ling a day for making the pace along the
plank. The fires under the boilers burned
steadily far into the night: the smoke-houses
ate the red mangrove as if all the world
were ready to die for the need of beche-de-
mer.
They had but one accident —a 'boilerful
"f ma-see-up rotted through neglect, and
when One-Leg Bill dropped anchor he
smelled the worst of all stenches, the stench
..f putrifying trepang. He swore at that,
not knowing the facts of the negligence;
but when lie saw the size of the cargo ready
for him he withdrew the cursing and blessed
Tommy Alligator as a first-chop, number-
one nigger. Further, he gave to Tommy
Alligator two tots of square-face: and
Tommy Alligator sang of the wonders of the
world t <>f which wonders Tommy Alligator
was the greatest! far into the night.
"My word. Alligator." said One-Leg Bill,
"you must ha’ got a good patch of see-ok-
suin.” as he saw the quantity of the highly-
priced trepang ready for shipment.
"All right that one," responded Tommy
Alligator cheerfully. "Damn bonzer alto-
gether."
A week later One-Leg Bill took on the
record cargo and hurried away to Darwin
to catch the market: light in the water but
with more value aboard than if it had been
a loading of general produce of the sea. And
T -mmy Alligator gave himself to the pro-
duction of another shipment of value, going
further afield as he finished combing the
near sea-floor. That restricted his output
a great deal, but did not diminish his activi-
ties. Fish and wooding boat, boilers and
smoke house, were hot with’ use. and the
time fled on winged feet between the
departure of One-Leg Bill and his return,
bringing with him a prosperous tale. He
had sold the fish in Darwin to Hop War
Sing A Co. at a great price, reduced a little
liecause of the quantity: but a sreat price
to a man used to a hundred-weight of high
grade and two tons of grade so low as to
be almost unsaleable. Hop War Sing had
advanced him £95 a ton. balance of £4o a
ton to be paid on his return: Hop War Sing
\ Co. had given him rice brandy and a
dinner with bamb x> shoots aud birds’ nests
soup in it: Hop War Sing had said they
liked One-Leg Bill welly much : and to all
inquiries of his for stores and accommodation
bad replied, with yellow grins of benevolence.
"Can do.”
And Tommy Alligator, finding the amount
of his "lay’’ was as cheerful as One-Leg
Bill, who departed down the Gulf to pick
up general produce—so greedy does success
turn almost all men —to make a full ship this
time and give Tommy Alligator opportunity
to rush a bigger lot of trepang through before
the monsoon caused the fishery to lay up
for the season.
Therefore nearly three months passed
between the date of the big sale to Hop
War Sing & Co. and the next arrival of the
schooner at Darwin. The fishery had been
.laid up, the laborers gone to their own islands
and the mainland happy in the possession
of a little money and much trade goods.
But One-Leg Bill recognised the value of
Tommy Alligator, and decided to take him
to Darwin, and up the hill of pebbles and
clay slate they walked from the big steel
jetty to Chinatown and the shop of Hop
War Sing.
They felt very gay. The town was new
washed and steaming: the big leguminous
trees of the Residency brilliantly green;
hibiscus flaming like, trumpets of blood in
the blue air; frangipanni throwing its cream
volutes saturated with perfume from the
stony soil; the air fecund with moisture and
with heat.
China Town lay baking in the heat:
brown and yellow children, bursting their
trousers, as if they were large puddings in
small cloths, sprawled under the crackling
verandahs of galvanised iron: a purple-
lipped Japanese woman, her face heavy with
paint, waddled to the door of a shop on
her short legs, beckoned, and was answered
with a frown from One-I.eg Bill. There
were shop windows spotted with bananas,
cumquats, tamarinds and granadillas; a
cookshop with two bronzed fowls as a sign,
and then the great house of Hop War Sing
& Co.
The trepaugers entered smiling, gracious
even to the skinny Chow seated by the door
on the vegetable baskets that proved him to
be a humble toiler; kindly to the bland fat
Chow who counted on an abacus, and painted
sums in ideagraphs: and with an air of
affectionate equality to the great Hop War
Sing himself, sitting behind the counter
beyond the desk.
Tommy Alligator sniffed the new odors
of Chinamen, dead fish, spices and old
cheese: sorted the smells in an instant,
with a perfect nose that had never known
catarrh, and remarked, for the benefit of all
whom it might concern:
“My word. One-Leg I That one China-
man smell like it bacon longa galley.”
"Sssh!" said One-Leg. “Hullo, Hop!
All li? Can do?”
Hop War regarded him sullenly, puffed at
his brass pipe once, and asked, “What you
want?*’
“Want? I want see you ! Buyem plenty,
sellem plenty, gottem money.”
Hop War Sing’s sullen eyes lighted for a
moment, and then were chill again.
“No can do,” he said decisively.
“What for no can do? I bringem more
trepang. Plenty see-ok-sum can do.”
In a moment the place was in an uproar,
as if the word see-ok-sum were an unfor-
gettable insult.
“Hi la I”.yelled Hop War Sing, dropping
his brass pipe, and calling to his countrymen
within —"Hi la fi tee.”
He charged around the counter, crying
“You lallakin! See-ok-sum no can do. You
lallakin.” he shrieked again in Chinese.
"The damn Pong’s tryin’ to jew us,
Tommy. Hit that Pong on the basket —get
one in quick-feller altogether.”
So saying, he struck the Chinaman who
painted accounts in ideagraphs a good square
blow on the nose, and ran to the door as a
score of Chinese burst from the inner room.
Tommy Alligator could not catch the humble
vegetable man. who ran out at the first sign
of trouble, but he delayed the pursuit a
little by snatching up the abacus, and with
one blow of it put the great Hop War Sing
out of action. Then he followed One-Leg
Bill, who made great time down the street
past the waiting Jap woman.
Tommy Alligator caught his boss, with
the mad rabble armed with waddies and
bamboos but thirty yards behind.
“Go longa peecsman," said Tommy.
“No fear, down to the boat! It’s down
hill, and they'd catch us before we’d get to
the lock-up. And 1.... I don’t-know what
it’s about! Quick-feller boat altogether.”
Pursued by the screaming horde they
reached the jetty, fell down it into their
waiting dinghy, pulled frantically to the
schooner, and boarded her. Her crew of
five Binghis dozed in the shadow of the
deckhouse. The Chows screamed shrilly
on the high jetty.
“Up anchor, you black loafers !*' gasped
One-Leg Bill. "What have they got on us?
Hop War Sing wouldn’t try to jew a man!
Why he no catchem any more see-ok-sum?
You savvy. Alligator?’’
"Marini.” said Alligator, fawning like a
dog. "s'pose him been find out.”
"Find out-—what? Hurry up! Find out
what?”
"Marini! I been seeum that one Pong
buyem black fish: no been buyem white
sand-fish.”
“Well, go on!”
"Then I been gettem mangrove bark,
boilem longa that one white fish, makem
black fish —see-ok-sum altogether."
"What!.... By cripes! yon tanned ma-
see-up with mangrove bark into see-ok-sum
and pickled the Pongs!, Well! you big
black waster! P'raps you've tanned all the
mandarins' stomachs in Pekin."
"Marini! I been thinkem alonga you
wantem catch money quick feller!”
"All right! We got ninety-five pounds a
ton for ma-see-np and closed this port till
Hop War Sing throws his alley in. You’re
too bad a crook to be a nig. Alligator. You
ought to be a damn munercipul counselor. Go
forrard. Now then, let her go.”
He put his fingers to his nose in panto-
mime of insult to the screaming Chinese,
and then he turned his face up <n his course.
But when they cleared the channel into the
crinkled waters east of Melville Island One-
Leg Bill's shoulders shook again.
"The dam nig showed ’em a point! Man-
grove bark to tan trepang. ,by cripes!
Pickled the Pongs !" he said.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WESTINGHOUiSE
(Morse) CHAIN DRIVES
• ‘* ; «y
tup-1 «r
mi
mu II
'v ' 'I ml*
H' ‘ '
■ 5
Sgugx's
■ n
For all types of high-speed power
transmission.
Positive in Action,
Silent in Operation,
Unrivalled in Efficiency,
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to sliding
surfaces. Consequently you have
Full Power,
Continuous Power,
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne vZealand Office: 93-107. Featherston St., Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
as
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKYER’S SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most peifect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Engi, and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
safeguard your health
otJ.C©flfS Brotfnels
CMorodyue
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co ids, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3j-, 5/-.
Made'in England.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
BULL DOG BROOCH.
As worn by our Brave Soldiers.
Every Patriotic Person should
wear one of these Brooches.
These splendid Brooches made in Australia and finished in
Gold, Silver, orOxodised Metal are sold retail at 2/6 each.
For the purpose of making these Brooches more popular
throughout the Commonwealth, we have decided to give
everyone an opportunity of obtaining Valuable Prizes for
acting as our agents. SEND NO MONEY, your name
and address will do, and by return mail we will send you
6of these Highly finished Brooches. When sold
remit us our money, and we will forward you the prize you
select from our Up-to-date Catalogue of Watches, Chains,
Clothing, Bracelets, Handbags, etc. Write To-day to the
SIMPLEX NOVELTY CO., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogrs Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.'
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
MR. HOIELKEEPER, you will make your business more profitable
by installing in your Hotel
Eckersley’s Dispensers
for the rapid and economic production of
Draught Aerated Waters.
These Machines are now used in many of the leading
Hotels throughout Australia, and we give below names of
a few Sydney users
Mr. J. B. Belfield, Belfield’s Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mr. W. H. Watson, Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Mr. W. B. Richardson, Railway Hotel, George
Street. Sydney.
Mr. J. I*. Barry, Lansdowne Hotel, George Street,
Sydney.
Mrs. Messenger, Hotel, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mr. A. Nonmus, British Empire Hotel, George
Street, Sydney.
Grand Pacific Hotel, Manly.
A targe number of our Machines are also in use in
Suburban and Country Hotels in Now South Wales.
MACHINES SUPPLIED ON TERMS.
Catalogs from :
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 25a George Street l Vest, Sydney ; and South Melbourne.
Some PiuJ
S
\
*
The tool with 5 big features
is the Oster Bulldog Die-Stock. The
features are:—
1. Self-locking dies.
2. Self-locking guides.
3. No resetting dies after each cut.
4. No loose bushings to lose or mislay.
5. No small parts to break.
Moving: the releasing: lever to the left
expands the dies— the stock lifts
off the threads. Greater speed, less
labor, cleaner-cut pipe-threading are
produced' by
Made in
11 Useful
Sizes
OSTER
TOOLS
47 distinct varieties
of die-stocks and
screwing: machines.
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251 C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
Os ter IV! fg. Co .
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
e
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, Write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WE CATER FOR THE WANTS OF
THE PETROL COMMUNITY.
No matter what your requirements
are for anything appertaining to the
machinery portion of
MOTOR-CARS,
MOTOR-BOATS,
MOTOR-BICYCLES,
or
STATIONARY MOTORS,
we can supply you.
Our Stocks comprise: GREASE
CUPS, LUBRICATORS, METAL-
LIC TUBES & SHEETS of ALL
descriptions, PETROL COCKS and
UNIONS, PRIMING CUPS, TOOLS
for the Bench, or Kit, etc., etc.
Illustrated Catalogues post free.
Robert C. Swan & Co.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for the FAMOUS
SCHEBLER CARBURETTER.


Tile All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
MANGROVIT
LEATHER
SE
■which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND HOR PRICE LIST.
mm
b
DODGE
Power Transmission Equipment
A Safe Proposition in these days of efficiency and economy.
DODGE Hangers and Bearings were designed to save power and
cost of maintenance, and will help you to save those expensive
POWER LOSSES on your plant.
Hangers, Self-Oiling Bearings, Plummer Blocks,
Pulleys, Couplings, Collars,
Friction Clutches, etc.
IN STOCK. ALL SIZES. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF
POWER TRANSMISSION APPLIANCES.
SOLE AGENTS—
8
CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
S 3
sea
n
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
HHH
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Soj,e Agents -
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
LAGGING
YOU WANT.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA
COVERINGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth; Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “Nelyamho” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
m
liwlSs
= «?V
.■ m
nmmm
.
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps
For Economy in Steam Consumption
and Freedom from repairs, these
Pumps are unequalled.
References can be given to hundreds of
satisfied users in the Commonwealth.
Delivery of many sizes from Sydney Stock.
Sole Agents—
The Austral Engineering Supply
Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MARINE
Sole Australian Agents :-r
BURTON, FRANRI, Ltd.
-311 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'en
PS
ALL-
BRITISH
MADE.
THE LATEST LISTER HANDPIECE.
Sole Agents for Australia—
DANGAR GEDYE CO., 9.13 young street, SYDNEY.
zmmmil
EVERLASTING
FOR ALL PURPOSES
FOR ALL PRESSURES
FOR ALL TEMPERATURES
FOR STEAM
FOR GAS
FOR OIL
FOR WATER.
VALVES
NO WEARING OUT.
NO PACKING.
In BRA SS
SEMI-BRASS or
IRON.
PROMPT DELIVERY.
The Bulletin
v' ;
Equitable Building 1 ,
George Sreet, Sydney.
