

the Veteran of Whiskies
m
.
'sMl '’■ •’
.'. wT-S.. -ji
S'!
icninen
lerchants
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
§
©
£
STREET, SYDNEY 74.
ssifce National Amphi
1 i y * '.^i h f *' r /!■-';
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
159 George Street West, Sydney,
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE 3ENNETT, General Manager.
Biiiiiii
iUjtiißili!
HOBART.
Hadleys
Hotel
Keep Your Home Clean and Healthy
And Free from all Insect Pests by using:
Radium Spray
Sold at all department stores. Radium Spray is
made in Australia by an Australian firm.
RADIUM CHEMICAL CO. LTD,*
210 Clarence Street, Sydney.
I ITTfiM
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
U I I UII
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
L
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Entirely BRITISH,
■
and the World’s BEST!
£R CORD
v v
m
Interesting' Catalog
The Silvertowi* Rubber Co.,
279 George Street, Sydney.
t
i
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
For all interior
panelling jobs ; strong
and good to looK at.
tSend for booklets.
§
ran
0
n
sT3
Agents Everywhere.
PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY,
CHALLIS HOUSE SYDNEY.
CD. S. EVANS, Australasian Rep.),
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
Moulds for Making
Concrete Pipes.
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. B
STEEL TRUCK
WHEELS.
OP ALGID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 37.—N0. 1875. ]
[Thursday, January 20, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. , Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW FICTION.
Moore’s Muslin.
Chambers’ Athalie.
Burnett’s Lost Prince.
Croker’s Quicksands.
Bower’s Blving U’s Last Stand.
Noble: The Bottle Fillers.
Farnol’s Beltane the Smith.
Le Quex: Double Shadow.
All at 3/6 per vol. Posted, 3/9.
Tyler’s Dusty Hoad.
White’s Grey Dawn.
Bacon’s Open Market.
Ward’s Eltham House.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON $ CO. PROP'T'Y LTD., 23S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROUND TABLE,
December,
1915.
Special Articles: The Harvest of the War; The
British Empire’s Financial Task; War and English
Life; India and the Imperial Conference; Land
Settlement after the War; Criticism of the Govern-
ment and Conscription Controversy.
Price 2/6 ; 10/- per annum.
MACMILLAN & CO., 109 Russell St., Melbourne;
and all Booksellers.
RILL THAT FLY.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, and a sample tin of “Must-
die” Powder will be sent post free, or
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
“MUSTDIE”
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
[3
Fiction
The Red Page
W. Somerset Maugham thinks ic worth
while to give us 050 closely-printed pages Of
Human Bondage (Heinemanu, per Dymock’s
Library). The strange thing is that it is
worth while. The worst thing that can
happen to an author is to possess too much
leisure to write. Once an author gets en-
trenched in prosperity he is quite content to
dig himself in, forgetting that even in fiction,
as in war. the only way to win is to evacuate
your trench for that of the other bloke’s.
There is much that is important and vital in
W. Somerset Maugham’s trench; but the
reader gets tired of trench-life. Maugham
tells the interminable story of his hero’s life,
but only up to the time of his marriage: one
fears that even now he is busily entrenching
himself in another section of that history.
But if the reader can manage to read on he
can depend on Maugham providing the in-
terest. The book is a leisurely narrative of
the woes and the ideals of youth.
“It is an illusion that youth is happy, an
illusion of those who have lost it; but the
young know they are wretched, for they are
full of the truthless ideals which have been
instilled into them, and each time they come
in contact with the real they are bruised and
wounded. It looks as if they were victims
of a conspiracy; the books they read, ideal
by the necessity of selection and the conver-
sation of their elders, who look back upon
the past through a rosy haze of forgetfulness,
prepare them for an unreal life. They must
discover for themselves that all they have
read and all they have been told are lies,
lies, lies ; and each discovery is another nail
driven into the body on the cross of life.”
This is the story of young Philip’s love-
affairs. He begins early with the elderly
Miss Wilkinson. All the romance he gets
out of the affair he has to make himself. He
thinks it necessary to seduce her, and goes
to her room. “She had taken off her skirt
and her blouse. ... She looked grotesque.
Philip’s heart sank as he stared at her; she
had never seemed so unattractive; but it was
too late now. He closed the door behind him
and locked it.”
He had even less luck when he went to
study art in Paris. The ugliest student in
the academy fastened upon him, and ulti-
mately committed suicide, from starvation,
and left him the unpleasant task of burying
her. The next was Mildred —and there are
hundreds of pages of Mildred. She was a
tea-room girl whose manner was so snappy
to Philip that he determined to be even with
her. Suddenly he found himself passionately
in love with this anaemic and mentally vacant
cockney. She was this sort of girl: When he
took her to supper and champagne “she liked
to leave untouched a large glass filled to the
brim. ‘lt shows the waiters who you are,’
she said.”
She clears with a German, but she
keeps turning up in Philip’s room for hun-
dreds of pages. He sees her through a con-
finement, and even goes so far as to offer a
friend of his the money to take her a trip to
Paris. You see, he loved her so! But the
author must himself answer the reader’s in-
evitable question, whether so uninteresting a
type deserves so meticulous an analysis,
whether, in fact, there isn’t altogether too
much of Mildred? Still, as Philip found out,
after the tiresome Mildred had made her last
appearance one night in Piccadilly Circus,
that “life had no meaning.” an author might
as well linger over the awful Mildred as over
the delightful Sally whom Philip marries.
But it is almost worth wading past Mildred
to come to Sally.
It is a depressing creed, this of Philip and
W. Somerset Maugham: “On the earth....
man, no more significant s than other forms
of life, had come not as the climax of crea-
tion but as a physical reaction to the environ-
ment. .. .There was no meaning in life, and
man, by living, served no end. It was im-
material whether he was born or not born,
whether he lived or ceased to live. . . .If life
was meaningless, the world was robbed of its
cruelty.. . .Failure was unimportant and suc-
cess amounted to nothing. Philip exulted, as
he had exulted in his boyhood when the
weight of a belief in God was lifted from his
shoulders; it seemed to him that the last
burden of responsibility was taken from
him ; and for the first time he was utterly
free. . . .He was the most inconsiderable crea-
ture in that swarming mass of mankirid
which for a brief space occupied the surface
of the earth ; and he was almighty because
he had wrenched from chaos the secret of its
nothingness....”
Such a discovery is futile, unless one can
get something of positive worth from this
nullity. And Philip does. He finds out the
meaning of a Persian rug given to him by a
dying poet. “As the weaver elaborated his
pattern for no end but the pleasure of his
{esthetic sense, so might a tnan live his life,
or if one was forced to believe that his-
actions were outside his choosing, so might a
man look at his life, that it made a pattern.
There was as little need to do this as there
was use. It was merely something he did
for his own pleasure. Out of the manifold
events of his life, his deeds, his feelings, his
thoughts, he might make a design, regular,
elaborate, complicated or beautiful.. . .There
was one pattern, the most perfect
and beautiful, in which a man was born,
grew to manhood, married, produced children,
toiled for his bread, and died; but there were
others, intricate and wonderful, in which
happiness did not enter, and in which suc-
cess was not attempted; and in them might
be discovered a more troubling grace....lie
would make of his life a work of art, and it
would be none the less beautiful because he
alone knew of its existence, and with his
death it would at once cease to be. Philip
was happy.”
Well, it was quite time. He arrived at
happiness only on page 650.
J*
D. 11. Lawrence has got the sort of
advertisement that an author does not like.
When certain book managers of London sub-
scription libraries censor a book, all that it
means to the author is that these managers
refuse to purchase that book for their
libraries; but there is no restriction if the
public wants to buy the book. Naturally
there is a loss to the publishers, for the
number of copies bought by the subscription
libraries in London alone is usually suffici-
cient to assure the publisher a profit on his
venture. In fact, it is this market for light
fiction at the libraries that is the sole cause
of so many useless novels being published :
the majority of novels are accepted mainly
to supply this steady and considerable de-
mand. The fate of a “censored” novel
depends solely upon the authors name and
“pull.” If he is sufficiently famous, the
censor simply booms his book ; and the pur-
chases of it from the shops and bookstalls
are worth more than what he would have
got from the libraries. If. however, he is
practically unknown his book simply drops
out of sight. But if he has literary friends
who will write to the press about his book,
the controversy aroused will sufficiently
advertise the novel. But D. H. Lawrence,
the author of such original and interesting
novels as The White Peacock and Sons and
Lovers, and of that remarkable drama, The
Widowing of Mrs. Holroyd, has had a worse
fate reserved for The Rainbow (Methuen).
The publishers were prosecuted and ordered
to withdraw the book from circulation.
The Rainboio is written w-ith all Law-
rence’s keen love for nature and with his
remarkable knowledge of psychology: the
style is vivid and beautiful; the portraits in
his long gallery of characters are brilliantly
painted ; but there is' no suggestion of unity
in the novel. Lawrence merely takes three
generations of the English country-side, and
narrates their growth arid their adventures
in love and marriage against a vividly
painted series of backgrounds of country
and city life. He has made three books into
one; the connecting link is merely that
of a family name; and from the lives
of these three contrasted heroines he draws
no conclusions, enforces no lesson. But
the many beauties of the book are
smirched and stained by the author’s delight
in picturing the sensual side of passion. It
is one thing honestly to depict the seduction
of a girl or the sexual pleasures of married
life —W. Somerset Maugham does it in his
novel —it is another to revel in the purely
physical aspect of sex, to record with a fasci-
nated interest intimate details of pregnancy,
the “love-affair” between a school-girl and
her school-mistress, and again and again to
delight to show sexual passion in its most
brutal aspects. Without any suspicion of
Wowserism it may be said that this side of
the book verges on indecency. There are too
many of those “unmitigated” kisses. No
wonder his thifd heroine winced under her
own dread. She was living with her lover,
bur she wouldn’t marry him. She did not
want to end with him. She wanted to go on
—to try other men. She says that she could
love a hundred men, one after the other.
And the thought comes, “Was she just pro-
miscuous?” Luckily the book ends before
we find out; but there seems no doubt that
she had accurately diagnosed herself.
But this nauseating aspect of The Rainbow
is by no means the major part of it. Law-
rence’s knowledge of the psychology of the
child, the virgin and the boy is uncannily
arresting; and there are scenes in it that
are radiantly beautiful. But that smear of
the ugly physical, slight in itself, gives to
the hardened critic a sense of repugnance.
Yet, for the temperate adult the book is
interesting and valuable. Unfortunately
an author cannot be sure that his novels
will reach the right hands. And upon the
immature and unpoised mind the effect of
this book, in its other aspects a work of
art, would be poisonous. In their harsh step
the authorities were justified. The world
can quite easily do without The Rainbow.
Australian
Richard Charles Mills, LL.M. of Mel-
bourne University, got his degree of Doctor
of Science (Economics) in London Univer-
sity, by a thesis upon The Colonisation of
Australia, 1829-J/2, dealing with the Wake-
field experiment in empire-building, a well-
documented essay in research now published
by Sidgwick and Jackson. The book fills a
gap,. since no writer has given us either an
unbiased or a complete exposition of Wake-
field’s achievements (and failures) in coloni-
sation. R. C. Mills deals with the subject
chiefly with reference to the effect of the
Wakefield scheme upon Australian colonisa-
tion and the colonists. Prof. Graham
'Wallas, Professor of Political Science at
London University, justly claims that this
work gives the first adequate account—from
hitherto unpublished sources—-of 14 all-im-
portant years in Australian history, and
points to the book as providing an example
of the development of civilisation by delib-
erate and conscious political thought. Aus-
tralia and Maoriland are outstanding excep-
tions to Seeley’s statement that the English
nation had “conquered and peopled half the
world in a fit of absence of mind.” Had
that policy of muddling through been applied
to Australasian colonisation these would
have been the consequences: “The period of
British convict labor would have been fol-
lowed by waves of coolie labor, Indian,
Chinese and Papuan. Absentee capitalists
would have scrambled for careless or corrupt
grants of land and mining rights, and would
have exploited the sheep farms and town-
sites of Australia, or the forests of Maori-
land, as they now exploit the rubber-trade of
Borneo or the Congo. Even if Great Britain
had retained sovereignty over the whole
territory she would not have granted rights
of self-government to a population so gath-
ered. No Australasian ‘Monroe Doctrine
would have been strong enough to prevent
the constant interference, official or un-
official, of the other Powers in the in-
terest of their own concessionaires ; and a
series of intrigues and risings would have
followed, as barren of good results as are the
civil wars of Central and South America.
And what a part in that scrimmage would
not Germanv have played !
Richard Chhrles Mills has done his work
faithfully. The book will find a permanent
place, long vacant, in our archives. The
story of the founding of the ill-fated Swan
River Colony (W.A.) is admirably told, and
in his conclusion the author succinctly sums
the merits and disabilities of M akefield s
brilliant scheme. Perhaps, in the future, this
conscientious scholar might make a com-
panion book upon the Wakefield’s experi-
ments in colonising Maoriland.
J*
Reflections on the War, by G. C. Hender-
son, Professor of History at Adelaide Uni-
versity (Hassell, Adelaide), give perma-
nence in book-form to a series of lectures
delivered by the author throughout South
Australia on behalf of the Belgian fund.
Already some £500 has been raised by these
lectures, and whatever profits there are for
the book are ear-marked for the same fund.
The author lucidly puts the thoughts of the
best part of our national life before his
reader; and the little volume is a dignified
and scholarly exposition of our belief in the
righteousness of our cause. He rightly points
out that “when it comes to a struggle such
as this, the ordinary maxims of political
economy do not apply, and it is just as well
to face this fact and all that it means at
once. One thing it means is this, that if
Great Britain is dependent upon the outside
world for many of her commodities, and
Germany is self-sufficing, then, despite all
that British gold can do, and despite all that
the British fleet can do, Germany will hold
out until the last British sovereign is spent,
provided she has men enough left to fight
with....The issue of the struggle will de-
pend upon the number and efficiency of the
men that either side can put into the field
and keep there.” For that reason Prof.
Henderson makes no attempt to minimise the
gravity of the situation caused by Bulgaria
flinging a force of 300,000 fresh soldiers into
the fray at this critical stage of the war.
And his final appeal is worth quoting: “Will
the democratic Governments of the empire
rise to the greatness of the occasion (by
raising without delay stronger forces than
those of the Central Powers) ? If not, then
once more in the history of the world demo-
cracy, the highest form of human govern-
ment, will have proved itself unequal to the
demands made upon it in the hour of danger.
Germany will emerge from the struggle un-
beaten, and there will be military discipline
enough for a hundred years.”
J*
There should be, in time, a place for Our
Australian Boys and Girls, an illustrated
monthly magazine for Australian kiddies, con-
ducted by Edward A. Vidler, and published
by George Robertson for 6d. The first issue
contains several typically Australian fea-
tures ; but its weakness is in the comparative
paucity of illustrations and their mediocre
quality. However, a magazine can never be
judged by its first issue—and the editor
promises to do better.
The war edition of The Kookaburra, the
magazine of the Sydney Teachers’ College
(Govt. Printer, Sydney, Is.), makes a feature
of the story of the recruits from the college
from the time they sailed from Sydney till
they reached Gallipoli, by means of interest-
ing extracts from the soldiers’ letters. Other
war articles and verse contributions make up
a worthy record of the pedagogue turned
hero.
Renmark, where the go»d fruit grows, hav-
ing, so she asserts, given more men and more
money to the war than any other place of
her population, is ambitious now to send to
the front a motor-ambulance. So she
modestly concocts The Renmark Maga-
zine, the proceeds being for that patriotic
purpose. A pleasant little literary blossom
from a place that is all blossom. The
writers are ingenuous, and the poets are
many.
The important subject of “The Mitigation
of Floods by Forestry Operations” forms a
feature of J. H. Maiden’s Forest Flora of
N.S.W., vol. vi, part 6. The author’s opinion
is that it is only a matter of brief historical
period when, unless preventive steps are
taken, the rich river and creek fiats of many
of our rivers will find their way into the
ocean. Loss from erosion is going on, to an
extent hitherto not guessed, all over Aus-
tralia. In considering the effects of erosion,
J. H. Maiden takes as his unit the paddock’
and makes an important discovery: The
State of N.S.W. is mainly made up of pad-
docks. The erosion that occurs in your pad-
dock is occurring in every other paddock.
Hence, look after your paddocks. “If one
could estimate the percentage of -flats’ area
which has disappeared since the advent of the
white man on some of the Upper Hunter
streams, I think the result would be start-
ling.” Summarising a valuable essay, the
author offers these proposals for the mitiga-
tion of floods : (1) Intelligent control of ring-
barking or felling. “This is the beginning of
all things, the attempt to get at the little rifts
in the ground-surface that have such mighty
consequences.” (2) Repair of little incipient
rivulets by gradual replanting or placement
of obstructions (logs, etc.). (3) Planting
of willow and other trees, shrubs, grasses,
etc. (4) Chamfering of the banks. (5)
Fencing of banks. (6) Burning as much as
possible of the dead timber and branches to
prevent their finding their way into the
watercourses and scouring the banks.
J. H. Maiden’s Critical Revision of the
Genus Eucalyptus , issued in half-crown parts,
has now reached part 4 of vol. 111.
<»
Even a Professor of Poetry should be
up-to-date. Herbert Warren, who has the
quaint but delightful job of nrofessing
poetry at Oxford, professes to know some-
thing about Australasian poetry. In a
lecture reported in London Times he gives
his little list of all the Australian poets he
knows—or likes. First, the two “character-
istic pioneers,” Henry Parkes and Gordon.
As for “the real poetry of Empire,” would
any Australian even guess? Here are the
names: George Essex Evans, John Landes,
Houglas Sladen, Archibald Strong, AVilliam
Pember Reeves, Dr. Gilbert White, Bishop
of Carpentaria, “whose hymn. ’Australia,’
had been quoted with much effect at St.
Paul’s by the Archbishop of Canterbury.”
That’s all. Is it worth Australia’s while to
have a literature of her own if this is all a
Poetry Professor knows about it?
Room for a new- pawnbroker firm, Bill-
Cohen ! The most important article in the
December issue of The Round Table (2s.
6d. quarterly) deals with the British Em-
pire’s Financial Task. In this the author
makes the ingenious suggestion that the time
is assuredly coming when Britain may have
to ask the Dominions for loans! “The
British people are taking on very heavy bur-
dens. They have already been told officially
that every man must be ready to give up half
his income to the service of the State. The
assistance which can be given financially
from the other parts of the Empire would be
of the utmost service. It so happens, too,
that the assistance which the Dominions
might give would be of a kind that would be
the most valuable of a11....The great diffi-
culty of England will be to find the means to
pay for her purchases of food, raw materials,
and munitions feom oversea. What greater
help could the Dominions give than to ad-
vance her the time being the money
wherewith t/ buy the food and other
materials whjrch she can get from them? It
is a tradition, difficult to forget, that Eng-
land is always the lender and the Dominions
always the borrowers. War changes many
things. /England can no longer lend. Are
not the Dominions now in a position to
finance their own expenditure, war and other-
wise? Australia is indeed raising an inter-
nal loan of £20.000,000 for her own purposes.
Jlut are they not in a position to do a still
greater service to the Empire by raising
money internally for the purpose of making
advances to the British Government?”
Australia as Bill-Cohen! Australia as
Britain’s pawnbroker! The idea is delicious
and flattering. Fisher’s boast of “the last
shilling” would come true, but we would
hand over that last bob with a polite reminder
that we expected our pershent on the trans-
action. And, of course, since Britain and
other pawnbrokers always make the loan-
business pay, Australia would be able to
sit back after the war and watch the interest
flowing into the national till. And on our
flag we would find room for some more stars
—three golden balls. All that a loan to our
ex-pawnbroker would mean is that we would
be merely foregoing the immediate enjoy-
ment of our profits and building up a reserve
abroad which would be rather useful to us
after the war. A less dramatic way would
be for us to pay off any indebtedness to
England shortly falling due. And the more
we could lend the greater naturally would be
England’s purchases from us of food, muni-
tions and raw materials —in preference to
Japan and Fordland.
In Poland, the latest volume of the Home
University Library (Williams and Norgate,
Is.), W. Alison Phillips compresses into
250 pages the tragic history of that dismem-
bered kingdom, whose fate, now in the grip
of Kultur, is at its darkest hour. An inter-
esting chapter shows that there is no hope
for the Poles under Prussianism.
A song rose up in my heart one day
When the pulses of morn leaped high,
So living and joyous a thing it was
I thought that it never could die.
’Twas born of the Spring and Forgetfulness,
From my heart to my lips it sped;
But memory came, and the trench you’re in,
And swiftly my song lay dead.
As each contributor has promised to buy
up the whole edition if her little piece is
printed the money for that motor-ambulance
is trebly assured. And maybe this is a
better way to raise the patriotic cash than
to elect a Renmarkian carnival queen.


u
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for Satisfaction in Silverware
No. 10G. —Child’s Knife, Fork and Spoon, Silver
plated, Pearl handle, in handsome Silk-lined Case.. 7/0
ES
No. 107.—Cake Forks with Server, Silver plated,
the latest idea, assorted designs ... . 11/-
-
.
■
■
No. 101. —Cake Serve-Alls, Silver-plated
A very new and useful Gift.
13/G
No. 108.—
Spoons
persons
Others
Fitted for 6
■Fine Assortment of Cabinets of Cutlery,
and Forks, best Sheffield make, fitted for 12
£ll
£l2/10/-, £l4, £l7, £2l
persons—
-82/6, £5, £5/18/G, £6/2/6, £6/17/6, £8
Consult our Illustrated Price List of ELECTROPLATED
WARE, CUTLERY and CLOCKS. Write for a copy,
pest free on request; it places selections from the
immense variety we offer at the command of
everyone in Australia.
%
No. 41. Flower Stand (all Metal), Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, very pretty effect;
tubes take out for cleaning . 40 / -
las
Xo. 42. Flower stand (Dixon’s), silver-plated, exquisite
design, with pretty. Iridescent Glass Vases 42/6
No. 46. Flower Stand, Silver-plated,
charming effect, with Iridescent Glass
Vases 38/6
No. 35. Inkstand. Electro Silver-plated on Britannia Metal,
engraved design 32 / 6
V
aasi
I
No. 109. Cake Forks, Silver-plated, half-dozen in
beautiful Silk-lined Case, pretty design 8/-
Other choice designs—
-9/-,'lo/-, 10/9, 11/6, 12/6, 15/-
l
No. 112. Carvers, in handsome Velvet- and Silk-lined
* Cases’ best Sheffield make, Xylonite (White), 3 pieces
111 01 11/-, 12/6, 14/-, 15/-, 17/-, 20/-, 24/-
No. 111. Carvers, in handsome Velvet-and Silk-lined
’cases,’best Sheffield Steel, 3 pieces, with Stag handles—
-10/-, 11/6, 13/6, 15/6, 17/-, 20/-, 21/6, 22/6
XO. 102.—Fruit Salad Set, the Latest Novelty, as
designs
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace oriuin»
BricKneid Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WNCHssrm
Factor) 7 Loaded
Shotgun Cartridges
“New
Rival”
If you want to fill
your game bag,
first fill your pock-
ets with Winches-
ter “New Rival”
factory loaded shot- ,
gun cartridges.
They have the speed,
pattern and penetration
essential for good shooting.
All dealers keep them in
the most popular loads.
Be sure to see that every
box you buy bears the big
TITF GRAND PR IN, the highest honor,
was awarded Winchester Guns and
Ammunition at the Panama Exposition.
I
A
1
Trad* Hark
Fortify yourself
with Bovril
IT MUST BE BOVRIL
BRITISH TO THE BACKBONE.
t?
Y
Ghengis Khan
never was
welcome
People hated to have him about.
Bitter and short tempered —-that
was the trouble with Ghengis Khan
And when you find your-
self in a bitter attitude
of mind, —grumpy and
irritable and pessimistic, —
just remember that in-
digestion and acrid bile,
and neglect to eliminate
poisonous wastes from your
system, have precisely the
same result to-day as they
had when Ghengis Khan
made himself so unwel-
come. Hurried, violent
measures make matters
worse. The gentle,
healthful course is to take
Cockle’s Pills
Sold by all Chemists, in boxes, price 1/- and .2/6.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., 4 Great Ormond St,, London, Eng.
Hhe Bocft^-Croaker
CHEAPER THAN
Elecfriciiy, Goal-Gas, Acetylene or Kerosene.
and BETTER THAN All
saw;
*• :
I*
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Buzacott & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Dangar, Gedye & Co.,
Young St., Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son ud.‘
Bourke St., Melbourne
Works: 269 Toorak Rd..
Melbourne
BROOKS B 302 Light Road Saddle. Also B 302 L for Ladies.
Your BROOKS Saddle is that model among the wide BROOKS range
which has been made with your special requirements particularly in view. Why
not find it and be sure of comfort ?
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS.
m
m
BBS
“There is no need to tell people who
saw me two years ago of the
wonderful results of
Clements
Tonic”
Mrs. Mary Ethel Hoare, wife of the
officer in charge of the Police
Station, Guildford, N.S.W., write' of
her recovery:
Police Station,
Guildford, N.S.W., 2/l/’l5.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
tw to pe , ,fect health has been so wonderful
£*{ *££ i hat * c ™ ot * et this opportunity pass without
results o? Clements°To£io '°' ° theP pe ° ple " ,e "' mKkrf ul
SWPBRBD DREADFULLY FROM
NERAOCS BREAKDOWN and INSOMNIA. The least thin"
would send my whole body into a tremble. I would shake all
r tri s d me<li eal treatment, but I gradually gre\v worse.
FVFIl I BFTNC t \VFT 1 f eit An atv AD UP ALL HOPE OF
try Clements Tonic °" V " he " » ■>«*■«» me to
Zo'nho to ,ell P<*>l>le "ho »«»■ me two years
Clements Tonic me +i n °« ’ °*. *he wonderful results of
better and after I il?'! t ie fi V st hottle I commenced to get
TOMYPRFSFVT bottles 1 WAS restored
10 ‘‘You ar?Jt T n?rfe^ E i^.OF HEALTH, \VH[( HIS PERFECT.
of this. AS I THINK EYERYONe'SHOULD KNOW‘arOFT
CLEMENTS TONIC AND WHAT IT WILL DO FOR THEM.”
(Signed)
NOTE.—AII Chemists and Stores sell this
Health-insuring Medicine everywhere. Get
it, and you get good health at the same time.
It is health’s advance agent.


Australia Riddled with
Deadly Kidney Disease
ALMOST EVERYBODY COMPLAINING.
Kidney disease is most certainly on the in-
crease. Thousands and thousands of people
in the towns and villages of this country are
in terrible danger of deadly kidney disease.
This insidious disease creeps on, gradu-
ally getting a firmer and firmer grip, until
when it is too late the poor sufferer discovers
he has Bright’s Disease. Have you kidney
trouble? Do you know how to recognise
whether you are suffering from this or not?
Here are some of the symptoms of kidney
disease : Aches and pains in various parts of
the body, nasty taste in the mouth first thing
in the morning, constipation, cloudy and bad-
colored urine, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, puffiness under the eyes—
these are all symptoms of kidney trouble.
And then people who suffer from backache,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone or
pains in the bladder, muscles and joints are
all suffering these pains through weak or
diseased kidneys, for these are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble.
All these things mean that the kidneys are
weak and diseased. They need strengthening
and making healthy.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
fpK;
Kidney&BladderPillsj
| These Pills also act on the Zi yen 4
b NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE » d
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of I)e Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause —the poisonous uric acid. Remem-
ber to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy
bluish color —a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that they
have put their healing touch on the right
spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A won-
derful pill—straight to the kidneys—that is
why De Witt’s Pills give such amazingly
quick relief —every time. A permanent cure
follows in almost every case. Look for that
blue-colored urine.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how 7 badly
you have suffered.
n 3 u nid ny
fIOJL 3MV
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more ?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
FREE TO
SMOKERS!
ma
?} r> J* Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W ,
writes:—.
~ gives me great pleasure to inform you that 1
ave been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
y ur wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
n? aVI i* or seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
tnK Wee * - It is now 12 months since I last used
anc *> a ithough I am continually in the eom-
' T smokers, Ido not have the least desire to
OKe; therefore I consider the cure permanent.
JlHwral health is now perfect; all my former
81n S| tU(J ' as irregular Heart Action,- Dizziness,
rpnsn oUS r eSS v a Stomach Trouble, which I have every
tnba° n t0 v. oeiieve were caused through the use of
m omni?’ , e en tirely disappeared, and are only re-
Der ® d as a hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep
me ’erf i to face the wor ld again. It will give
others ’’ f J easure to recommend your remedy to
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
„ fI’FE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,
testimonials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Bonnincfton’s
irish 6 moss
1*
>
For Children
Nothing is more irritating than the continual
coughing of children. Unchecked, a cold so
quickly spreads to others. To instantly re-
lieve, and quickly cure COUGHS, COLDS
or WHOOPING COUGH, give the child-
ren “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss.” Take none
but—
Beware of
Imitations
BONNINGTON’S
Make Somebody
Glad To-day!
They come to us in scores MEN and
WOMEN with the marks of disease upon
them and a pitiful appeal in their eyes.
They are poor, sick and sad. With your
help we could make them GLAD.
Hand in a shilling to-day to any local
collector, and get a coupon in exchange.
Twenty Shillings or Coupons entitle you to a
ticket in a draw for an ENGRAVED SOLID
GOLD PLAQUE —value One Hundred and Fifty
Pounds sterling, and the entry of your name as a
member of
THE MILLION SHILLING LEAGUE.
Tickets for the Plaque will be issued one
month before the draw.
“I* it nothing to you,
all ye that pass by ?”
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne appeal for
a Million Shillings
MR. ARTHUR S. BAILLIEU, Collins House.l Hon. Treas.
MR. EDWARD FITZGERALD. Bank Place,/to the fund.
m
Ik
■Hi.
s,i
Constipation
The case of Rheumatism or Gout
which Kruschen Salts cannot benef it
has yet f? be discovered. This
famous British remedy is also
recommended by Medical Men in
cases of Lumbago, Sciatica, Eczr na,
Constipation, and Liver and Kidney
Disorders.
KRUSCHEN AT THE FRONT
Since the outbreak of the War, enormous
quantities of Kruschen Salts have been ordered
by, and delivered to the British Authorities, for
the use of the British Forces overseas and in
the Base Hospitals at Home. Kruschen Salts
are prescribed by Medical Men the world over.
THE WORD KRUSCHEN
The trade mark “ Kruschen ” is a legacy-
handed down from generation to generation of
the family of Evan Griffiths Hughes, the sole
Manufacturers of Kruschen Salts, and one of
the oldest firms of Manufacturing Chemists in
the County of Lancashire. Established 1754
160 years ago.
usch'
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
ONE SIZE
ONE PRICE
2/-
Per Bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Plaint of Eve.
“He for God only ; she for God in him."— Milton.
He gazed upon the Presence mute
And she stood there a while
And wondered what his reverence meant,
His rapt seraphic smile ;
For though he felt that God was there
To Eve ’twas but a vision fair
That lit with glory all the air.
Her form divine was nearer far,
She did not soar so high ;
In Adam lay enough of Ileav'u
To please his spouse’s eye;
And so she cried impatiently:
“W hy look so long on Deity?
Just gaze a bit, dear Man, on Mel!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
The Clothes-line.
My mother takes me hy the hand
And leads me past the garden rails ;
Till anchored to a pretty land
We find the ship and spread the sails.
And there we sit and bide until
There skips a very happy breeze
From round the corner of the hill
And runs its fingers through the trees,
And when its arms are waving high
We know there is no time to stay ;
But kiss our hands and say good-bye,
And sail and sail and sail away.
And so throughout the golden day
We sail our ship towards the West
To see where unborn babies play,
And where the sun lies down to rest.
And yet our ship is very slow,
Or else the sun is very fast!
No matter how the breeze may blow,
He always beats us at the last.
And when the world is sad with gloam,
And little stars begin to climb.
We take our sails and hurry home
To try again some other time!
MAORILAND.
BOYCE BIWDEN.
A Ballad of Treasures.
Not hoarded gold, nor jewels, such as please
The greedy fancy of ungoverned kings.
Nor lofty garners locked with cunning keys
And piled with tribute that exaction wrings :
’Tis not to these that Age, heart weary,
clings,
But to frail relics of life’s former prime ;
The simple beads that pensive memory
strings—
These are the treasures in the house of Time.
Not languid pleasure of long days of ease
Hidden away from wanton Fortune’s slings ;
Not silken raiment ’broider,ed to the knees
That round each step a broken rainbow
flings;
Not the far lure of lengthy wanderings.
Not these, but shreds of half-forgotten rime
And trifling songs that wistful Memory
sings—■
These are the treasures in the house of Time.
Not sated pride when gloating vision sees
Full answer to ambition’s whisperings:
Not passion’s chalice emptied to the lees.
Nor the keen joy that high achievement
brings,
But when in sorrow piteous Memory rings
A muffled echo of love’s glorious chime.
Remembrances whose bitter sweetness
stings—
These are the treasures in the house of Time.
L’Envoi.
All ye whose feet, as light and swift as
wings,
Brush the brief flowers of youth’s radiant
clime,
How can ye guess the work of little things?
These are the treasures in the house of Time.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Evasion.
She hurled a pot. He uttered “Damn !’’
It struck him in the diaphragm.
She wept at that, and he was kissed
Repentantly. She would have missed
If she had meant to hit him there,
Or on his head or anywhere.
She only hurled to show that she
In quarrel stern was good as he,
So that he might her will subdue,
And sternly her forgiveness woo.
On his hurt vest she dropped a tear,
Then hastened out to buy him beer.
* *• * *
She, talking in tempestuous way.
Says what she does not mean to say ;
And by mistake will sometimes hit
Old sores of mine that hurt a bit;
And then, when I am fairly wild,
She weeps like a repentant child ;
And makes amends as best she can,
Extolling me a super-man!
* * * *
By pot or tongue, or anyhow.
A woman dearly loves a row !
She in life’s calms will trouble brew.
It is a woman’s nature to.
But I, who know such little ways
Take easy part in all such plays.
I rave before I feel the smart
Of things that might have seared my
heart;
And in this way the storm is done
Before my anger has begun.
By false pretence I kisses steal
That then are meant my wounds to heal.
And thus I dodge the angry pot.
That flies through the domestic lot.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
4
<•
I
4
>*■
*
?
1/
§6
E^Sv
k-afcj
if
PERDRIAU
GARDEN HOSE. \
Obtainable from all Ironmongers.
Pcrdkiai s ~r« staffard :cf qe* - ■ 2.
I. _i d L - ' "
ever Assent. It a mir cc “cse
lor ersrv r<ETrcsc sac 1 :rccs lbwcss zz iick-
c< t«t resc
Otr H :« B z s ire: —
“W atershec speAl art jj&rr* and lbe ~-ed
rc-ccer oenctees gr-aac sfceni ' £f3d
-1 i-^-.iiK. ‘-i:! ■*:< iTeci rscr sdrac.
“ Cataract” A s.«aav Bose rs=c -mil asc-
■»<evl unier rress^r?
" Prospect ne k«* triced on be ■sark^.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co Ltd
-
V
i *it37i
'•li
nai
ir si
1
*»*
fj
__ 1 j /
I r //I
/ / /
John Lysaghi Limited will bo pleased. upon
application. to forward a free copy of the
new and en larged edition of their * * Referee
to Every Property r Owner and GaJvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation wh : ch w r iJl be found
both usefufand interesting.
S Sor, -g Street , Sydney.
to t-e
A-t-cr : * S
5*4A
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT 31 MOTOR
DRIVEN
*isn, 5.7 tssr»ser3:w»
OM«t£S WOTT.
6k S'. I. 1 l IteiMuri*. V«
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
»TE;; - Lzx Mi r-iirief because of
:i-.r -rA- c . ~-frix•-** oc in the
.* >r 5 ..-r £ ixj -xxy&itag ms. hines.
Ti** -Ci.-TTi t ii- -ft. No.
4_L *3j--b*> > ~iz-- £ pipe
fr ;.n I-lZ'-i z fii- i diameter,
and •_* t.I smeb fr-;« i-inoh to
lfiiei. f Osier
11 t.--: Anii iiitic die re-
-1-: - -'.Aj. i£-:c- 1 :: ii-es. • rnatic
*1 r-T2t> in: sask ec-svenient
•S—i-:&L F:c cithreads
49K£ ■*“ ~£ Tse tea Machines.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland Ohio, U.5.A.
;i
The Jolh*wells
*
f«*t ?w*ri«F
r* fcftrs- «pn»r
Tl*f - i Tr-’c/'f
WH§ TOC* CM Jtlrf
Ti*f ww~# B»er«
-± t** m Ffo*t
-1® HrfJ SMV#
I d jiri*
t»x *ef*U_
A Picnic is No Picnic
without
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese
R si~
ivHr 7 ixr*
■wirib® sic zii: -Sms- -CHBursi a. 39
si* l £.•!«*■ c %i ci±- tust
wmaniie j«ie cl t
ci L' LLT tc -RFJT LOi HD;»X
CHF.F>£ ii: ii_i 1 .Li
XWW J£L<L Z3H- J'ETTsr. 31~ > LjrC
ran*. “REX' LOCHD'X
«HEE>E -eiscy ■vc'iffur
,sj ~j H **t-a . • t T f?i.T - i -siurv.-i
Bit Bhb **ET lOCBBiW IHEE?£
TopJtiß in- c n i«gcut vv~:i .tod • *
uiL -jit+j rix -atz t vij Tnni.-itc i+tcr f
-f-s. iiw -REX' Lnf€ED>X
C HtESI: ?>-> ~ r 'i_ :a : -•*-■ —- zc
f rune a£j it t*- c5-;Tij-iia.TiOTL Ft Cpkib
lit?**.
az a Grocers in
Tins or Jars.
E* A cma 15LLK A* IXS
hu.
BBt I idtt'iif hK
ir-fc »X. Sl T3®^.
7 ipt «■■«■£«*. 3k.
*•«' Lame*. lifliTift ■ *eCr 3k as
‘ E«* Slwy ? - jx Sk ;wv
**»■' Lt-'I- i*r 'Until? x Hk jr-nf;-.
FOGcSITT. JOHES & CO. LTD
Cij«s *4 ~EET HAM> u>: RAO'V.
F*c*ert «f -RET- POLE F>*«o Pl&>Wa^
- , V X
V - O
v^.
r,
3=
- '
c_ "^K
A
v:
*
#«
*
trmij
s>
r
j~>'
-
7 :
§
s
inccmpjMr\b!e’


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, tor Transmission oy Pose as a Newspaper
Vol. 37.—N0. 1875.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, L 916.
Price 6d,
THE NEW CALVARY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod,, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS, when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
tvithout stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable.' ' Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—-will be , paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Cifcus.
South Africa. —The Central -News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dauson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., })/ Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Marked Street,
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.'H-.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 553
:29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
llandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id-; United Kingdom, All Sea Iloute, 160 z..
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
Z^^xxllelZTi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1916.
THE PAPER WE STAND ON.
The Stone Age gave place to the Bronze
Age, the Bronze Age to the Iron Age, the
Iron Age to the Age of Tempered Steel and
the Age of Tempered Steel to the Age of
Paper. Everywhere the written agreement
holds and the printed word has sway. Bank
notes, bills of trade, letters of credit, Acts of
Parliament, business agreements, industrial
awards, leases, mortgages, certificates,
diplomas, lOU’s and a thousand other de-
vices, which are merely pieces of paper, link
our civilisation together and keep it from
falling into blank anarchy. The paper
medium represents our trust in one another,
and failing this the whole machine of life
goes out of gear.
* * * *
This being so, it is necessary that society
should protect its paper with all proper
violence. That paper stands for society’s
faith in itself, which is its life. Hence the
duty to a man to guard his own life, even
at the expense of somebody else’s. is no
greater than the duty of the organised com-
munity to stand by its paper and the inky
scratches which give it meaning. This is
the practical explanation of our part in the
big war now ramping up and down the flame-
swept lines of Eastern and Western Europe.
The Kaiser set liis battle hoof on a piece of
paper, and if things were to go at that the
bottom would be completely out of the ship
of civilisation, and no subsequent pumping
could get the old craft dry. The cost of
teaching Wilhelm the simple lesson that a
signed paper is sacred will run to a tremen-
dous sum in blood alone, not to mention gold
and ironmongery: but it is absolutely neces-
sary to see the job through and to lash him
into meek and humble submission to the
flimsy thing that must for the world’s safety
be proved stronger than his guns. Big as
the task is to crush a Power that has been
preparing 40 years for its crime and bending
all its secret energies to a single purpose, it
is rendered still bigger by temporary alliances
' hieh dislocate trade and chock the wheels
of industry. Trade unionists are playing
the German game in the German spirit by
tearing the paper of their agreements and
going on strike. Their erinn% if lesser in
degree, is exactly the same as that of the
Kaiser, and the whole force of our civilisa-
tion should be brought to bear on the job of
convincing them that their offence is one for
which there can be no excuse.
* * * *
To deny the right to strike is foolish and
against every notion of individual liberty.
Every man has a right to say that he will
or will not work for a certain employer under
certain conditions. That he might never-
theless be compelled under the law of com-
pulsory peace-service to share the general
burden of the community is not to the point.
While Private Enterprise as a capitalist
employs, Private Enterprise as a worker
can work or leave it alone. More than this,
refusal to work unless certain things are
conceded is a perfectly legitimate way of
securing advantages which would not other-
wise be granted. It is a risky game and one
in which the wage-earner is often heavily the
loser; but it is no crime against the com-
munity, and whether his claims are extrava-
gant or not the worker has a perfect right
to urge them. But the breach of an indus-
trial agreement is an altogether different
matter. “When once such an agreement has
been entered into the person who breaks it
becomes an enemy of society, and as such
should be liable to the severest penalties that
civilisation can inflict. This applies equally
to the employer and the employed. Unless
the paper agreement is regarded from both
sides as a sacred thing which it is infamy
to break, our whole basis of civilisation is
undermined. Other paper can then have no
value. Only a fool would cash a Common-
wealth note under such conditions; an Act
of Parliament would be a clumsy jest; there
could be no possible use for a Labor party
to make paper laws. The only course then
open to the State would be to place some-
body in absolute power by acclamation and
make his single will a substitute for all the
paper documents of every kind. Failing
this there could, be no State, and things must
lapse into plain savagery. If a paper agree-
ment does not hold in one case it ought not
to hold in another; and if the whole paper
system be swept away Billjim has no more
rights than the household dog or the house-
roof cat.
* * * *
Trade Unionism, as Justice Williams,
of Maoriland, pointed out years ago, has a
right to preference oyer disjointed and un-
associated labor, not because it is unionism
nor because in its massed power it can make
some show of fight, but because it can sign
agreements which are binding upon its mem-
bers. Yet organised labor in Australia breaks
a score of its agreements every week and
believes that it can go on offending in this
way with comparative impunity, honoring the
paper it has signed when the arrangement
pleases it, and walking on it when it seems
possible to gain a little more by throwing
down its tools. The result is constant loss
to the community and a constant menace to
the whole theory upon which the community
is built. The employer has his faults and
his grievances; the worker has his wrongs
and his rights. But far more important
than these parties to the industrial bargain
is the general public which, unless agree-
ments between the two are faithfully kept, is
being regularly swindled and defrauded. If
the greatest good of the greatest number is
regarded as a reasonable economic aim, the
public is more important than any union, and
should have consideration before any em-
ployer ; and it is for this public to see that
it gets a fair deal. Small fines that may
or may not be paid cannot meet the case.
There is a call for something large and
drastic in the way of punishment. In the
case of the employer he should be simply
drummed out of business and forbidden ever
to enter it again. He might also be com-
pelled to wear his hat inside out as a badge
of shame. The fraudulent union, on the
other hand, should be disbanded and its
members disfranchised ; and any association
of any of those members under any circum-
stances or for any purpose should be regarded
as conspiracy, and punished in any severe
way up to immersion in boiling oil. Only
one employer and one union would ever have
to be treated in such a manner; for the
awful examples would leave no sort of doubt
as to the public view of agreement-breaking.
The magnitude of a crime is judged by the
sort of punishment set against it on the
Statute Book ; and as long as people can walk
on the paper they have signed at the cost of
a paltry fine, to strike when you have prom-
ised to work will be regarded as no more
serious than getting drunk or forgetting to
settle the gas account. While Australia is
spending its best blood in an attempt to
wallop the Kaiser for his breach of an inter-
national treaty, it is absurd that our own
international treaties should be broken every
day, without so much as a boot being raised
to land the kick of justice in the right place.
RAILWAYS AND BIRD LIME.
In theory there are 170 ways of running a
State-owned railway system. One, and the
simplest, is to let it run itself. Another is
to let the railway servants elect a board of
managers. A third is to wear out all the
plant and then rush round looking for some
other method. But in practice the popular
choice is limited to two alternatives. One
is to engage a man who understands
the job to attend to the details of manage-
ment in conformity with a certain general
public policy. The other is to let the poli-
tician handle things. Between the two is
a large, yawning gulf, and just now the fine,
upright Government which afHicts N. S'.
Wales is preparing to leap across the chasm
and make the political administration of a
great national asset one of its immediate
objectives. Australia has known something
in the past about the political management
of railways. It knows to-day something
about the political construction of railways.
And it knows that wherever and whenever
the politician has put a finger into the pie,
the result has been incompetence, muddle,
fraud and loss. Of course no system is
perfect. There are dangers inherent to
every scheme of management devised by man
and defects in the checks and balances he
may invent to minimise danger. Non-
political administration of a public depart-
ment may be shockingly inept—may even be
dishonest by intention. But ineptitude and
dishonesty there are easy to detect; they can
be corrected: they become beacons and warn-
ings against humbugs and th'- ves. With
political control the evils of ineptitude and
common dishonesty are the least sinister that
have to be reckoned with. It involves deeper
and more malignant dangers, which corrupt
the community to its very foundation. A
railway service directly controlled by a
group of party politicians is run for one put"
pose only—to snare votes. And that
business the democratic politician, thrown
up by the party machine from the hurly-
burly of a general election, can be a very
irresponsible individual indeed. #
In every country in every age political
parties and the coteries of wirepullers who
at times masquerade as parties have all
denounced the evil of patronage as revealed
by the nepotism of the other fellows, and
have frantically promised to clean up the
mess and inaugurate reform. And just as
regularly, when reformers have been given
the cash-box to handle, they have become the
objects of denunciation, for they too have
promptly set to work on the same old im-
moral lines, merely seeking new places to
operate in. In most democratic communi-
ties the Civil Service has_ accordingly been
surrounded with barbed-wire regulations to
keep out the politician, since experience had
shown that if he was allowed in he would
certainly arrive with a w T aggon-load of candi-
dates for jobs at the public expense. In
all these countries the people who find the
cash have observed, too, that if they only
left the politician on the premises long
enough he would put a gate through the wire
and run his friends in by dozens at a time.
He is no better in Australia than he is any-
where else. On the contrary, by burdening
the country with half-bankrupt schemes of
pensions for sections of the community, and
by giving concessions here and special advan-
tages there, the politician of every brand
has shown to Australia that he regards pub-
lic funds and the public estate as something
to be juggled with in order that he may
maintain his own precarious place in public
favor. The largesse he distributes is none
the less demoralising because it is not his
own, nor the betrayal of the public interests
any less definite than if those interests were
sold in the market-place for money instead of
being peddled in holes and corners for scraps
of. paper tossed into a ballot-box. A com-
munity can be debauched through its own
Statute Book quite as effectively as any
other way, and it is a hundred times easier
to make an experiment in Socialism an instru-
ment of civic degradation than it is to keep
it free of the white ants and rats which soon
get busy on its foundations. State
railways are not built to be manipu-
lated by party politicians as a means of
hanging on to their jobs. The arguments
which justify them are that they separate
from politics a great public utility, and pre-
vent the country being plundered. Cut
those arguments away and there is nothing
left. And they are cut away when party
politicians get control of the lever.
So far as can be made out from the confused
observations of Minister for Hoyle
about a re-construction of the N.S.W. Board
of Commissioners, the intention of the Gov-
ernment is to assume an over-riding author-
ity in administration. Stripped of all the
guff concerning “grievances” and “demands”
the meaning is that the Minister shall direct
not only what the Commissioners are do,
but how and when it shall be done. Now,
members of Parliament are not elected be-
cause of their ability to administer the com-
plex affairs of a railway system, nor is any
member chosen to be a Minister simply be-
cause he is a railway manager. During the
reign of this Government McGowen, Dacey,
Cann, Carmichael and Holman have all
been Ministerial heads of the railways. Were
they all railway experts? Now Hoyle is
the asistant-Minister in command; and
though Hoyle may be the proper person to
put in charge of an affair representing a
capital investment of £60.000.000 and a rev-
enue of more than £7.000,000. there is pretty
solid ground for thinking that he is not, and
that if he wasn’t a party politician he would
have a mighty hard struggle to impress any-
one else with his fitness to be left in
charge of a signal-post. Considering iis
recent disastrous experiences of politicians
monkeying personally with business enter-
prises, this determination to reach out after
opportunities for making a still greater mess
is a joyful illustration of what may happen
to a cashbox which doesn’t belong to anyone
in particular. Summing it all up.
the party politicians are not concerned
about the railways as a public ser-
vice. What they are concerned about
is to get closer to the man who
works on the railways. They want to make
themselves the court of personal appeal for
the adjustment of wages and hours of labor.
They want to utilise the huge annual ex-
penditure of the Railway Department to
sweeten constituencies. And incidentally
the Norton Griffiths syndicate looms in
the background watching the outlay on
duplications and deviations coming up for
careful consideration. This money is now
controlled by the Commissioners. Why not
by someone “responsible to the democracy”?
It would be very convenient. Rut these
things are no good to the people. Nor would
they be possible if popular control of
national affairs was a reality. That machine-
ridden politicians should be allowed to make
even the smallest public enterprise a medi-
um of vote catching and party advancement
is an outrage upon every principle of nation-
alisation. and wherever it has been per-
mitted has been a fruitful source of demoral-
isation. To Labor which stands for nation-
alisation. encouragement of this means the
denial of its own doctrine —the stultification
of its own platform. Suppose Australian
railroads to be unified, as thev presently
must be. what would the Labor organisa-
tions think of Joe Cook and Bruce ■•Smith
as the kingpins of the service? For let it
be remembered that political control doesn’t
always mean Labor control. It may mean
control by Iceberg Irvine.
ON WORKING OR LEAVING IT
ALONE.
“Moutere” puts the question in the nude:—
As a people we hate, loathe and detest work.
The proofs of our attitude towards the accursed thing
are everywhere. We are governed mostly by Labor
parties, and you can hardly walk 50 feet without
barking your mind on the jagged edges of a Labor
union or a Labor League or a Labor politician; but
when we spell Labor with a big L we invariably
mean something which is in bitter and open rebel-
lion against labor with a small 1. There never yet
was a Labor organisation which did not aim at
reducing, curtailing or opposing labor. There never
yet was a Labor leader or politician who owed his
position to a desire for more labor in either quan-
tity or quality. The ruling political motive in Aus-
tralia to-day is to get rid of toil to the la’st
possible point of apparent safety, and at the saute
time to secure to the person who is compelled to
work a little the largest possible amount of money
for his services. In all this, of course, the Aus-
tralian people is not singular. The same political
ideal is making headway in most countries, and as
far as the lights of history may guide us the pre-
sent movements are in line with all the past. There
have been people who went on doing things for the
sheer joy it gave them, but they have always been
in a minority, and have generally had the contempt
of their fellows. What the rank and file of Aus-
tralians now attempt to do by Labor organisation tlie
individual in the past accomplished by many devices.
Sometimes he dodged labor by stealing money or
possessions; sometimes by stealing men and women
and turning them into slaves; sometimes by running
a pawnbrokery and retiring on the profits; some-
times by merely sitting down on a piece of land
until it acquired value. All these modes of escaping
perspiration are still in vogue ; but with the grGwth
of the communal instinct the up-to-date notion is
for a general laze in which all men shall have an
equal share.
Looking at our comparatively narrow world with
moderate honesty these statements must be admitted
as containing the gist of our popular thought and
the kernel of our ambitious. Day by day, as the
sweat which Adam foolishly invoked streaks the
forehead of the toiler in ever-lessening degree, the
hatred of doing things becomes more pronounced.
The loafing of the politician 'is pardoned by the
person who voted him into power because he feels
like that himself, and would gladly lean upon a
post all the week if only somebody would supply
him with cigarettes and beer, and see that the
missus and kids did not actually starve. The mer-
chant of imported rags affects indignation at the
general tendency to burst the fetters of toil, and
points with enthusiasm to the way in which cheap
niggers and other people made docile by hunger
toil in the production of his wares; yet he does
not go the length of setting an example to the
public, but leaves the toilsome work of his office
to a chief clerk or other misguided person who plods
on under the notion that it is a religious duty to
crush the desire for lounging which arises in his
own soul. Here and there somebody cries out for a
tariff that might protect our existing industries or
create new avenues of labor ; but the politicians are
too comfortable to take much heed, and know per-
fectly well that as long as there is enough food in
the country to go round, nobody will raise a
serious riot in his eagerness to make new things.
The perpetual borrowing of State Premiers is toler-
ated for the same reason. The Labor party in
holiday moments, when work looked less objec-
tionable owing to its comparative distance, has
denounced borrowing and passed fierce and con-
scientious resolutions regarding it; but when a
new loan is actually being obtained at Cohen’s
counter the opposition shrinks and dies away until
it becomes like the mere popping of a cork in a
thunderstorm. Money is easier to borrow than to
make, and ease of any sort is, after all, the main
consideration.
* * * *
Now why can’t we be honest about all this, and
go to work to abolish toil in an open and Gon-
fearing manner? If as a nation we don’t want to
work, why keep up the sorry pretence that we are
burning with zeal to get at it ?. There are several
ways out that are quite practicable, and others that
would last at least for a few years. For instance,
we might re-introduce slavery and force a black,
brown or yellow man to collect our dinner for us.
We might proclaim a perpetual holiday and live
with the minimum of toil by the mild art of sitting
on a rock and fishing. We might cut Australia up
into blocks, let it to Chinamen or Indian coolies,
and with the rents they paid us pay them for the
food they raised from the soil. We might gather
all the supplies in sight, call the whole population
to an extended picnic, and sit down under a few
shady trees until everything was consumed, trust-
ing to the future, as Holman’s creditors do, to
somehow rear itself up and undertake things that
it tires us even to think about just now. There are
all sorts of ways of eluding or defeating toil if we
were only honest about our feelings in relation to
it and were prepared to elevate those feelings into a
national policy. In the old days they didn’t mince
such matters. William of Normandy resolved to
plunder England because by doing so he could
avoid the labor of cultivating the soil of northern
France: people who did hoe the earth with sweat
and other accompaniments were known as villains,
and such villainy has ever been held in scorn.
Elizabeth knighted John Hawkins for making the
great discovery that niggers were naturally adapted
to slavery, and Charles the Giddy put Morgan in
the list of birthday honors when, in desperate
anxiety to get rid of the cause of perspiration, he
tore the wealth out of Panama. If we were less
hypocritical, and ceased to bleat about virtues
which in reality we detest, George-street might have
been padded for our comfort long ago and Collins-
street slung with broad hammocks.
* * * *
But Australia simply cannot serve two masters
who roar conflicting orders at one and the same
time. When we profess to live by work and sternly
refuse to tackle it we are in a fair way to fall
between two strips of banana skin. To stand around
the edges of things we intend to do, slowly screw-
ing up our courage to the point of taking our coats
off, is the most fatiguing business of all. To rush
toil as the Anzaes rushed Gaba Tepe is really less
exhausting than to talk forever about the things we
intend to do when we feel a little stronger. In point
of fact, the knowledge that work is to be done and
has not yet been tackled causes blisters on the
brain as big as any we can raise on the hands by
gripping the mattock of progress. The perpetual
standing at gaze, while we assume and assert that
we are hefty workers, must at last wear out the
national nerve and assurance. Whether we like it or
not we have simply got to choose between philoso-
phic sloth and the big perspiration of genuine labor.
The work that lies before Australia is of such
magnitude that unless is it is tackled now. and
tackled with desperate zeal and energy, it can never
lie done at all. The policy of talk-and-shirk. whether
it calls itself Labor or Liberal, is rank folly. Be
must go in either for a policy of work or for a policy
of loaf. To proclaim a general strike in perpetuity
and let things go at that would lie a thousand times
better than to put up a programme of extensive labor
and then blow holes in it by submarine methods.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Prime Minister’s Well-known
Opinions.
When representatives of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures of Australia
waited on the Prime Minister last week to
ask_ for decent protection for their goods
against Germany, the answer they received
was not exactly of the kind to make them
feel confident in launching out into new in-
dustrial ventures. Hughes told them his
own views were well known, which might
have referred to his taste in neckties, his
opinion of Joe Cook, or his advocacy of Free-
]T a d e J but the only assurance he would give
the deputation was that he was not “in
tavor of trading with Germany during the
nrf r ’ ,f^ ter the war or at any other time.”
I he “any other time” must logically have
referred? to,the period before the war, when
Hughes as'a tariff-sinker of a pronounced
sort allowed Germany to build up a trade
p p 1 Australia ; and if the Prime Minister's
lack of favor for Teuton imports doesn’t
make a better showing in the field of action
; n . the future than it did in the past, he
night just as well take the ground that Ger-
many should stand on the level of other
nations when the storm blows past.
ughes, in trying to dodge a straight-
•ut Promise of proper protection for
‘kalian goods, quoted Henry V.’s talk
< oout selling the lion’s skin while the beast
i ve( h "his was mere clap-trap. The beast
fi l ? v lv ing- The German power in the
in d j? some considerable life, though
• ending of the war can only come about
in one way—by its death. But German
ion,- Australia is dead—dead and
p • * ng , a . .most evil smell behind it. The
Munster’s business is with that trade
n °t Wl th other things that may be alive.
To give guarantees of legislation that will
lts rev ! val is a duty dictated by both
1 otuotism and common sense. Hughes
knows perfectly well that if matters are left
as they now stand the moment the last battle
n s , number of Australia’s alleged
iatnots will rush to the German market
to secure any sort of shoddy that may put
a tew pounds in their own pockets. Once
rm trade llas been begun it will be
difficult to stop. The real time to act is
now while the public eye is on the matter
and the issue is clear and definite, and
when no vested interests have come
mto being. What is Hughes afraid
°t Does he imagine that the Kaiser
will win, and that in such an event our case
*J^ e a little less desperate if we have no
anti-German legislation to speak of on the
Statute books? If the Kaiser could win,
our legislation or the lack of it would matter
nothmg ; if we win, as we must, our victory
will be no gain failing the legislation which
Hughes will not promise to pass. There is
absolutely no reason for obscurantism or
keeping the public guessing in such a case.
Manufacturers cannot get busy all at once
without some time for preparation. If the
German trade which has been killed is. to
be honestly kept dead, industrial Australia
should know it at once. Altogether,
Hughes s lame shuffle has a bad appearance
and suggests that his former severe affliction
on Freetrade has not been wholly cured.
Anyhow, the Australian public wants an
answer to the question the Chambers of
Manufactures asked. Is the Prime Minister
prepared to shut down on German imports,
or is he going to play the Kaiser’s game by
quoting Shakspere and sinking Australian
interests and a decent tariff together behind
his obscure smile?
«.
Reaping the Harvest.
Out of the mouth of Sir Alfred Mond,
M.P. and P.C., came a solemn warning to
Great Britain last week. Yet it was not
intended as a warning, being the utterance
of a party politician and a “little Navy”
man who would, if he could, have made
Britain impotent to do more than protect
her own shores against German aggression.
Mond is the son. of the German chemist who,
in partnership with Brunner (the son of a
Swiss), founded the largest alkali works in
the world at Norwich (Eng.). He is
now managing director of the mighty
Brunner and Mond firm that owes its
success to Britain’s Freetrade policy. He has
spent tens of thousands of pounds in com-
bating the Protectionist cause. He
puts money into freetrade newspapers. He
has represented German influence in Eng-
land from the outset of his career. So, when
he told the House of Commons: —
The most serious competition after the war would
be from America, not from exhausted Germany,
which would not be in a condition to flood the
world with goods,
lie was practically saying: “Don’t interfere
with Freetrade. It is our best policy, and
poor, dear, damaged Germany will be incap-
able of taking advantage of it.” But when
he said : —-
No amount of legislation and tariff jugglery will
deprive the Germans of the advantage of their
encouragement of scientific and technical knowledge,
Mond the Freetrader, who hates and fears
what he terms tariff jugglery, was stating
only a bare truth. The German Govern-
ment has been benevolent as regards the
physical and mental education of the masses
and the encouragement of scientific research
to serve the nation’s commercial ends. The
British Government has been unbenevolent
and unpaternal in so far that it has made
but little practical endeavor to raise the
level of education among the people, and
has been content to see “true-born Britishers”
pushed into the background by aliens in
their own country for lack of education.
The better-equipped foreigners have been
capturing trade in Britain as well as British
trade abroad. It was lack . of educa-
tion that kept Britain dull to her peril
before the war, and permitted tfle peril
to grow to its present dimensions. The
same lack of education accounts for the an-
tagonism of so many workers to compulsory
service. They owe so little to the Govern-
ment that they pay no respect to its appeals
for help. The Government of Britain,
autocratic in nothing and ultra-liberal to
foreigners, has been heartlessly careless of
the welfare of individual Britons outside the
ruling circle and the circle of social influence.
Other Governments have been almost equally
indifferent to considerations which were all-
important in the German scheme of world
conquest. Now woe has come upon the
world because its misgovernment has left it
almost completely at the mercy of Germany’s
savage kultur and hoggish ambition. All
far-seeing thinkers have predicted or hinted
at the punishment the world was preparing
for itself. The sins of the Governments
are the sins of the peoples. Germany is
suffering because the people have let them-
selves be drilled and educated for the pur-
pose of aggressive national advancement
rather than in the interests of German
humanity. Britain and other countries are
suffering because the people have been cal-
lous to the sight of uneducated poverty in
their midst. Charles Dickens appealed
in vain to the common-sense of Britain when
he wrote the story of the Haunted Man.
“This,” said the Phantom, pointing to the gutter-
snipe, “is the last, completest illustration of a human
creature utterly bereft of such remembrances as you
have yielded up. No softening memory of sorrow,
wrong or trouble enters here, because this wretched
mortal from his birth has been abandoned to a worse
condition than the beasts.... Woe tenfold to the
nation that shall count its monsters such as this by
hundreds and by thousands! .There is not one of
these but sows a harvest that mankind must reap.
From every seed of evil in this boy a field of ruin
is grown that shall be gathered in and garnered
up, and sown again in many places in the world. . . .
There is not a father by whose side, in his daily
or his nightly walk, these creatures pass; there is
not a mother among all the ranks of loving mothers
in the land ; there is no one risen from the state of
childhood but shall be responsible in some degree for
this enormity. There is not a country on which it
would not bring a curse.”
Fifty or sixty years have passed since
Charles Dickens preached his sermon on
the gutter child, and all that time the Ger-
mans were getting better educated under
despotic rule, whilst Britain went sluggishly
along under its old system of “freedom” —
the rich and prosperous classes paying no
heed to the accursed poverty and malnutri-
frop that was denied governmental care or
relief apart from a degrading workhouse
system. And now a German-sprung apostle
of Freetrade can taunt the House of
Commons with the fact that Britain,
enfeebled by a cancerous growth of
indigence in the population, is commercially
outshone by an iron-ruled nation, because
the iron rule had educational method in it.
No amount of legislation, as Mond insists, can
deprive this generation of Germans of the
advantages of their encouragement of scien-
tific and technical knowledge. .It only
remains for British Governments to draw the
sting from the taunt in the future.
»
The Hole in the Back Fence.
According to Melbourne Age, Mahon, Min-
ister for External Affairs, has not aban-
doned the idea that “even at this late stage
a practical scheme may be evolved for deal-
ing with the development of the Northern
Territory.” Wherefore he has sent a civil
servant up to make an “exhaustive investi-
gation,” and is thinking about appointing a
Royal Commission to exhaustively investi-
gate some more. Heaven alone knows how
many reports have been made on the back
yard. Certainly not less than 76,421; and
as Mahon is getting further reports tipped
on his table every mail from the multitudi-
nous civil servant up yonder he must be a
warrior for literature if this gigantic pile is
not enough. Meantime, while he is waiting
for the next one, it may be a useful thing to
remind Mahon that the fact of the Minister
charged with administering the Territory
being in a condition of mental chaos about
his job is a fairly serious sort of scandal.
At the same time it might be pointed out
to him that, in the midst of all this Minis-
terial doubt and irresolution about every-
thing except spending cash, Private Enter-
prise is busy acquiring large hunks of land
in connection with the freezing works that
are under construction in the Territory.
Apparently Private Enterprise is satisfied
that pastoral development is not only possible
but profitible. Why, then, this loose official
talk about not having wholly abandoned the
idea of development? Does Mahon realise
what the price, of abandonment would be?
The Territory is a fertile land, half a mil-
lion square miles in area —one of the waste
places of the earth. It must be inhabited
and made a place of industrial effort by Aus-
tralians, or someone else. There is not much
room for doubt about that—nor time to
waste over, the job. either. The primal
curse afflicting the Territory is its remote-
ness, and this is one of the greatest dangers
to Australia, the chief reason for its neglect.
The cure for that is the long-promised rail-
way communication . with the rest of the
continent. The service is wanted for devel-
opmental purposes and for defence. It is
imperative. Neglect to proced with it is a
betrayal of the Commonwealth —a wicked
abandonment of trust, a piece of treachery
to the white race. It is in this direction
Mahon should be turning his eyes instead
of groping for additional exhaustive reports,
which exhaust nothing but opportunity, time
and money.
Dodging the Issue.
Assuming the advocates of “conscription of
wealth” are serious and not playing with a
red herring, it would be a fair thing for
them to explain their suggestion. How can
it be given practical effect in Australia to-
day? It is clearly useless for a citizen to
declare that he will oppose compulsory ser-
vice for defence unless there is also conscrip-
tion of wealth, without showing a way to
conscript wealth. Take these cases:—■
(1) Jones and Co. Ltd. have a dozen steamers, for
which they paid (say) £150,000, and still owe
£lOO,OOO on debentures. The shareholders cut up
£7500 a year.
(2) Smith is a surgeon. He makes £4OOO a year.
(3) Brown, a farmer, is £2OOO ahead of it on a
good year.
(4) Robinson is the mortgagee over a block of
land on which he has advanced to Stealem and Co.
£20,000; his income is £lOOO.
(5) Andrew Fisher, Agent-General, salary £5OOO
annually.
Now what is the wealth conscriptionist
going to do? Is he going to conscript the
Jones line of steamers or only the income?
If he is going to take the income derived
from these punts, who will run them? What
is going to be done with them when the war
is over? And what is he going to say to the
company’s creditors who live in another
country and have pledged the co.’s deben-
tures with a foreign bank? Smith’s wealth
consists of two skilful hands and a bag of
tools. If his income is taken these remain.
What is the next process? Brown wants
long thinking over. Robinson only has a
scrap of paper—that is wealth. But
Stealem and co. had the £20,000, and have
spent it on buildings and machinery and
making goods to sell, by which they have
accumulated £lO,OOO worth of book debts.
How is all that going to be dealt with ? Of
course, A. Fisher could be brought home
again ; or should we compel him to serve us
there for nothing? Cohen, mostly of
London, has £60,000,000 of p.n. on N.S.W.
railways—wealth in a very real form. How
shall we conscript that? And Norton
Griffiths has a contract that is worth a
bob or two. How shall we reach that? By
cancelling the contract? The reply to all this
will no doubt be that the State can collect
the wealth just as it now collects probate
duty. So it really means, then, that con-
scription of wealth is a highfalutin’ term
for taxation. But if anyone said that he
would oppose conscription without taxation
it would be obvious nonsense, because we
have taxation already. The State already
takes one-third of certain incomes, and it
has a complete right to take the whole lot.
So the excuse of some people that they are
against conscription because there isn’t taxa-
tion is a patent fraud. _ It is quite possible
there isn’t enough taxation. In other words,
it is quite possible there is too much borrow-
ing and too little raising of money otherwise.
But whose fault is that? Who are respon-
sible for the orgies of borrowing in Aus-
tralia? The wealthy? Not a bit of it! The
Labor party, to its eternal disgrace! So,
from this point of view, the demand for “con-
scription of wealth” is a reflection, not on
the owners of the wealth, but on the Labor
Governments which are in power in the
Commonwealth and in every State in Aus-
tralia except one. _ _
The Trend of Things in Berlin.
According to a statement cabled from Lou-
don. and professedly built upon a reading
of German newspapers which have slipped
through between the shells, something like
a pro-English feeling is growing in Berlin,
Dresden and Hamburg. The GoTT-strafe
business is said to be dead and the loaf
hunt to be reaching a crisis. The German
mind as explained under the censorship is a
remarkable affair at all times; but the pub-
lished extracts from prominent German
prints certainly seem to suggest that the
longing for peace is getting so acute that
somebody may start waving a dove in the
air or whirling an olive branch in spite of
the Kaiser’s bad temper. Pro-English feel-
ing could only mean a growing belief that
England might be the best country to look
to in any proposal to down war implements. If
so, it is another indication of the inability of
the Teuton to understand the British spirit.
On all appearances Britain is only just be-
ginning to get seriously annoyed. The events
of the past eighteen months have slowly
soaked in, and old gentlemen at Wands-
worth and Tooting are only now showing a
little purple about the shirt collar when they
read their morning papers. That Germany
will get a surprise when her peace proposals
are made seems therefore tolerably certain.
No big nation has yet made moderate offers
for winding up hostilities and had them
thrown out of the window; but that seems
as if it would be Germany’s experience. If
it is, the country beyond the Rhine may rea-
sonably be expected to go mad ; but whether
the madness will be of the GoTT-strafe-every-
body kind, or of the sort that makes for
internal revolution, remains to be seen. In
any case, unless the Socialist journals’
articles are specially dictated by the Kaiser
as a means of misleading Asquith, things
are moving faster in Berlin than they are
along the Western front.
♦
Tiie postal connection between Australian
soldiers having their base in Egypt and their
relatives and friends in the Commonwealth
continues to be a scandal, and the excuse that
the fault lies with the senders is proved in
dozens of cases to be merely a lie to cover
muddle and carelessness and probably mean
theft. Every week complaints from one side
or the other reach The Bulletin. This
week’s batch contains one particularly en-
lightening example. Exhibit A—the cover of
a Bulletin addressed :—•
21460. Corporal ,
No. 2 Battery,
Field Artillery Brigade,
N.Z. Expeditionary Forces,
Egypt.
This is clearly typewritten. Exhibit B
is a note as follows :—•
Hundreds of papers addressed the same as this
one come to England, and yet the postal authorities
say it is not their fault that they go astray. Hope
you get it all right. , 8.Q.M.5., No. 55 Battery,
R.A.A., England.
Exhibit C is from the original sender of
the paper in Adelaide —the person whose
money the Commonwealth took for doing a
job which it shamefully failed to do: —
I imagine that the enclosure bowls over the defence
of the Postal, authorities that only mis-addressed
mail matter goes astray, and gives us a key to the
problem that has exercised a good many brains i 11
the last few months. Ever since our first Expedi-
tionary Force left Australia I have sent Bulletins
correctly addressed each week to my brother, who
has been In Gallipoli. He has not received them as
regularly, and I can now understand the reason for
this. If, as the B.Q.M.S. says, hundreds of papers
correctly addressed to Australians and Maorilanders
in Egypt are sent instead to England and kept there
by people who have no right to them, it is time
that some action was taken. However, proof is hard
to obtain, and only for the courtesy of an English
A.M.S. man who was given this particular paper,
and who thought it worth while to write to mv
brother on the subject, this bit of light would not
have been thrown on a pretty dark mystery, and we
should still be exercising our brains on the problem
of missing mail matter. Yet this only illumines
one side of the question. The other side—the reason
for this deliberate exportation of Australian papers,
etc. —still lies in unfathomable gloom.
Suppose Webster, P.M.G., gives bis bright
scheme for nationalising motor-waggons a
spell, and tackles the plain job of delivering
letters and papers and parcels to the people
he accepts money for delivering them to.
Young Australian soldiers, serving in a
foreign country, are surely entitled to this
small piece of consideration.
The S. M. Herald, which “entered the new
year with hopefulness and prayer,” bucked
up sufficiently a few days later to discuss
the question of German-Australian trade
after the bayonets are wiped. And having
wrestled with things at great length the dear
old lady appeared to come to these conclu-
sions : —*
(1) That unless Australia sells goods to Germany
the population will not be able to get German pianos.
(2) That it is ridiculous to suppose this country
would refuse to supply the requirements of such a
good customer for wool as the German.
The idea that Australia could possibly make
pianos is of course so absurd that there
must be some sort of trade with the Hun ; so
what more reasonable than that Fritz should
be supplied with wool? For of course wool can-
not be properly treated at this end of the
world. It has to be sent to Germany in
ships to have the dirt washed out and be
combed and carded and dyed and packed up
into nice little parcels and put back into
the same ships, along with the pianos, and
dragged back again. Then having paid for
the pianos and the freight and the insurance
and made Fritz a present of the grease in
the sheep’s overcoat, the democracy of this
happy land at last finds itself in a position
to knit an occasional sock and listen to a
fugue in D major. If something like this
were not done we would obviously all be
horribly poor and wretched. Meanwhile
how about Fritz, who doesn’t grow any wool
to speak of, but has the astounding gift of
being able to make a piano? Well, among
other things thousands of him would be
finding useful and payable employment on the
jumbuck’s fleece which Australia could only
hack off and se\V up in a bundle • and others
of him would be toiling with the despised
grease and putting scent into it and packing
it up in tubes and pots and packages* and
sending that back to Australians. This
paper, being much more concerned about Aus-
tralian than German trade, would earnestly
invite its venerable contemporary to go into
Vale!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Silver and black below the moon,
Naked beneath the fleckless sky,
Choired by cradling tides, atnne,
Yet voiceless else to-night! Good-bye,
Hummock and hilltop, sand and sea,
Gallipoli, Gallipoli!
Rude foundry reared in flame, wherein
A People’s strength was beaten out,
Toughened and tried and tempered thin.
Leapt to the proof, and slew the doubt!
Pride of our pride that shall not die
With Death ! Gallipoli, good-bye !
Steep headland scourged with fire, and
stained
With blood of paladins! Low shore
And sand-strip, that by valor gained
Valor could hold, but could no more !
Splendor of Time while Time shall be,
Gallipoli, Gallipoli!
Page from a world-old palimpsest
Shrined on the altar of the sea,
Whereon a Nation’s new-limned crest
Glitters in gloried blazonry!
Grave that our race shall kneel anigh
For aye —Gallipoli, good-bye !
Dying, to rank as Men with those
Who manned the wall while Ilium
burned —-
This is the crown your story knows.
The meed their rare dear madness
earned!
Troy’s heroes cry to ours and thee,
Gallipoli, Gallipoli!
They watched through fierce weeks many
a one
AVhile, from his tent of rose-hued lawn,
The unclenched fingers of the sun
Unloosed the westering birds of dawn :
For them those sun-birds stoop or fly
No more ! Gallipoli, good-bye !
God’s-acre, bare of barren words.
Cross-guarded mounds where moon-rays
burn —
Like pale knights praying by their swords
Set upright in the bracken-fern—
Thy lore shall keep our freemen free,
Gallipoli, Gallipoli !
N.S.W.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
Spiked.
“N’importe’s” nightmare :
The President sat in his office with a heavy frown
on his face. His powers of composition had been
severely taxed of late, and he was feeling wearied
with his arduous duties. Suddenly the door swung
open and a breathless courier rushed into the room.
The President paled. “What now?” he de-
manded.
“The Plutocrat has been torpedoed, sire,” stam-
mered the courier.
“With what loss?” inquired the President,
anxiously.
“Seven hundred Englishwomen and children, sire.”
“Fool, I said, what loss?”
“Two Americans, sire.”
“Two Americans,” echoed the President. “This
must cease. He reached for his fountain-pen,
grabbed a sheet of notepaper and commenced to
write. ‘ Once, twice, three times he pressed on the
pen, but no ink flowed. He shook it violently, but
without result. Then he examined the reservoir.
Some foul miscreant had emptied the magazine.
“More ink!” he thundered, while he unsheathed
his pen refiller. A second later a messenger entered
white as the unsullied sheet on the President's blot-
ting-pad.
“The ink has all been removed from the build-
ing,” said he.
“East, west, north and south, hie thee away and
seize some,” shrieked the President.
“Alas, the supplies have been commandeered by
the enemy!” moaned the messenger. “And fires
have broken out in all the stationery works through-
out the country.”
“Heavens above!” shouted the President. “They
have destroyed our arsenals!” For a full minute he
was silent. Then: “But I shall not be beaten,” he
hissed. “We shall be avenged. The cursed foe
shall receive a note, though I write it in letters of
blood, my own blood, the blood of the President.”
He bared his forearm, seized the erasing knife
and opened a vein.
With a cry of baffled rage he plunged the knife
into a stuffed dove on his table and gazed at his
arm.
Nothing flowed from his vein but water.


GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMOS6LER
sasL-
bottle.
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
Australians
BE PATRIOTIC. DRINK—
The World can offer no better Natural
Mineral Water than Koomah-wh ch
comes direct from the famous Rock Flat
Springs. Cooma. N.S.W. A Natural
Mineral Water from your own country.
55*,, E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to Vice-Royalty,
Ballarat, Melbourne, Sydney, Katoomba
Australia's Very
Own in Natural
Mineral Maters.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
THe Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia
INSURANCES EFFECTED FOR—
1-ire. Personal. Accident. Hailstone. Live Stock
Workmen’s Compensation. Plate Glass, etc., at Lowest Rates
Head Office: Comer Pm and King Su-ect?, Sydney. G. HOWARD POPE. General Manager.
details about all these things. We want to
know why public policy should be shaped to
(1) Provide Australia with German pianos;
(2) Provide the linn with all these jobs after the
war;
(3) Provide Hun-owned ships with material to
carry.
For the present,'having a continent that
needs population and work for them to do.
there seems to this paper no reason at all
for handing over to a foreigner immense
supplies of a raw material from which he
makes goods that are absolutely necessary
to him in a finished form.
♦
The Struggle for Victory, Peace and
Dollars.
Early in the war The Bulletin had a sus-
picion that when the little misunderstanding
was cleared up it would he found there were
15 Kaisers. Later intelligence indicates
that this was a conservative estimate. There
cannot be fewer than 20. Consider what
we have heard about him during the last
week: He was in a bad temper; he had a
cold in the head ; he was having a row with
Yon Tirpitz ; ho had, variously, a sore
throat, enlarged tonsils, a pimple somewhere
or other, cancer of the larynx, influenza; he
had been operated on and was at the last
gasp; had not been operated on and was tak-
ing exercise as usual; was very ill and quite
well; was unable to take any nourishment,
but fed with the Imperial Chancellor. Now,
as all these things cannot happen to one per-
son at the same time, there is overwhelming
testimony in favor of the 20-Kaiser theory.
Also that theory gives us some justification
for swallowing holus-bolus all the yarns,
stories, predictions, perjuries, guesses and
estimates that drift along from day to day
about the Kaiser, the condition of Germany,
the situation generally and what is going to
happen next if something else doesn’t occur
meantime. Incidentally, all this talk about
the Kaiser suggests that we find it much
more comforting to think of his ills than
of our own shortcomings. It is time we
changed all that, and realised that the
Allies will derive more profit from bashing
the enemy than from bothering about his
bread card or his frame of mind. The essen-
tial point is that the German has to be
heaved out from where he is. He has not
been heaved; and until he is heaved he re-
mains unbeaten and powerful for evil. More-
over. definite information about what the
British navy is doing is of far more import-
ance than indefinite news about what the
German outfit isn't doing. Apparently John
Bull, though having a strangle-liold on the
German, is not exerting it to the full extent,
out of deference for Uncle Sam’s trade with
Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Holland.
And as an enormous volume of this is going
round the corner to the Hun, the suspicion
arises that Britain’s naval arm is not help-
ing to suffocate the German with as much
enthusiasm as the circumstances demand.
Of course the howls of Brother Jonathan
and Joiiannsen and Sveborg and the rest
would be fearful to listen to if Britain
started real suffocation, but these could at
a pinch be accepted with more resignation
than the knowledge that Fritz is getting
sausages from Chicago. News dribbles aloug
of the Bear continuing to leap on the enemy,
of marching and counter-marching in the
Balkans, of the Montenegrins being chased
along the skyline, of battles raging some-
where near the place Adam and Eve called
home. But for us it all means very little
except that the later movements of the Ger-
man have not been held up and that the end
is a long way off. All of which maketli glad
the heart of the benevolent neutral of whose
feelings we must be so careful and filleth his
cashbox.
In the early days of the war this paper
protested against some of the instructions
of the Censor, which could only be described
as grossly immoral, inasmuch as their plain
intention was that the press should give the
public a false idea of the progress of events.
That the policy of the military authorities
was both disastrous and cruel is now known
to almost everybody, even perhaps to the
military authorities themselves. The nation
was thus encouraged to live in a fool’s para-
dise for 12 months, and then it partly woke
up to find that tens ot' thousands of its best
had been thrown away on enterprises which
were foredoomed to failure because the pub-
lic had not been aroused sufficiently to fur-
nish strong enough support. It had been
hoped that the. blindness and folly which
produced those early instructions and those
painful consequences had been chased away.
Certainly for six months or more no serious
complaint could he laid against the Censor-
ship. It was occasionally puerile in the
performance of its work; but it appeared at
last to recognise that it was only justified in
muzzling or interfering with the press in
order to keep information of value to the
enemy from reaching him. Latterly, how-
ever, a change appears to have come over
the department, and there are indications
of a return to the old immoral habits. Y\ hero-
fore. in view of the most serious conse-
quences which followed from the early hood-
wiuking of the public, this paper warns the
community that the hands of the press are
once more being tied, and that it is not per-
mitted to know the truth about the success or
the failure of certain steps which have been
taken to ascertain the feeling of. men of
military age in regard to a certain matter.
It would not be so bad had the
press been instructed that no information
at all on this subject should be published.
[Suppressed by the Censor.]
How could this self-governing people decide,
for example, whether universal service is called
for. or whether voluntaryism is sufficient, if
the information on that subject were
polluted? This paper, at any rate, declines
to be a party to the deception of the public
without entering this protest.
The sort of deal N. S. Wales made with the
Norton Griffiths syndicate or combine is
becoming more definite as the days go by.
Originally the argument for giving the
shyndikit an innings was that it had a tre-
mendous lot of money and would provide
multitudinous millions for carrying on local
works until Cohen was ready to handle the
Holman p.n. again. It was all plain hum-
bug ; but as the Government whined dis-
mally about the tremendous amount of
unemployment there would be in the land
unless someone came along with the cash for
keeping the boom going, the gag passed.
Well, money was wanted lately to keep the
shyndikit going. So the State put a couple
of millions on the London market and it
pans out this way: Norton Griffiths gets
a commission for underwriting; the money
being raised, it gets more commission on
spending it. When it buys a wheelbarrow
it gets commission on the invoice; in addi-
tion it bags commission on the salaries dis-
tributed amongst the staff employed in
supervising the purchase of the barrow and
the toil of the man who shoves it. Further-
more a squad of officials paid by the State
have been diverted to help the combine, and
the shyndikit rakes off more commission on
their salaries. Yet it is a Government call-
ing itself Labor which perpetrates this
atrocity of giving a £IOO bond for every
£97 10s. it obtains, and then placing the
remains on the counter to be wolfed by a
crowd which gets first a cut on selling the
bond and next another deep cut for getting
rid of the remnant. Of course it is the
wickedest thing ever done in Australia or
China: but that didn’t prevent a foolish
little politician throwing up his hat in pub-
lic the other day and squeaking about his
“great satisfaction” that the loan had been
launched. Most of the others merely copied
the public and held their noses. But. then,
they didn’t help to shove and manoeuvre the
deal through.
Goncerning Germany's newest allies: —
There are humorous features about the latest
strike at Broken Hill. It is entirely an A.M.A. out-
break; and as the Broken Hill A.M.A. (Amalga-
mated Miners’ Association) is the most wrong-
headed collection of wild cats in Australia, naturally
it soon got into violent conflict with everybody. It
owns a daily paper (kept going for years past with
money collected for miners’ widows and orphans),
and it used this paper to bitterly attack the Engine-
drivers and Firemen. Whereupon the Engine-drivers
and Firemen intimated that if the A.M.A. didn’t
leave them alone its members wouldn’t supply the
A.M.A. paper with power. While the A.M.A. was
nursing that eye it got something worse in the
other one. Its delegates went to Pt. Pirie, where all
the smelting is done, and which is of nearly as
much consequence as Broken Hill, and Pt. Pirie
laughed, and asked the A.M.A. who was its
monkey 'last time, and went on with its job. Then
the delegates pushed on to Ironknob, where the iron
ore comes from, and were chased out and told they
were German pimps, and it looked as though a bad
accident was going to happen to one or two of them.
Meantime .at home the A.M.A. was declaring Pt.
Pirie “black” and Ironknob “black’’’ and Hummocky
“black” and the Engine-drivers “black” and the
Carpenters “black.” In fact, everybody is “black”
except the lilywhite A.M.A.—and the Labor Prime
Minister of the Labor Government is “blacker” than
any of them. But while these capers of the A.M.A.
are humorous they are also serious, as the manu-
facture of munitions is hung up and the output of
metals is blocked, so far as the A.M.A. can do it.
In the circumstances, and in view of the past con-
temptuous attitude of the A.M.A. towards Industrial
Arbitration, it seems about tjme to suppress that
absurd body, cancel its registration, forfeit its funds,
and declare the fools who mislead it incapable of
holding any office in any other union for 75 years.
“Green Tape”: Lewis Deer, who was
appointed publicity secretary to the Educa-
tion Department when Carmichael was Min-
ister. is to be Chief Publicity Officer in the
Ma State. The Holman Government has
appointed several “publicity omeers,” but
I don’t know what good has resulted. The
inside relations between Speaker-Lord Mayor
Meagher and the Labor caucus have not
been explained : and the log-rolling and the
“jobs” generally go on emitting a great, un-
holy stink, but get no other kind of much-
needed publicity. What N. S. Wales public
affairs want are sanitary gentlemen, not
“publicity” officers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “So bong, Letty”
Criterion
royal “What Happened to Mary
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Garden The Dandies
Picture Block Theatres Moving 1 lctuiea
The White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “pother Goose”
Royal “Under tire
King’s “The Chaperon
Princess’s “The Merchant of Venice
Bijou Fuller Vaudeville
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Own & Olympia Hoyt’s Pictures
♦-
The following is the programme of the
‘“Twin Beds” Follies at the Criterion :
B—Show8 —Show advertised to start.
8.10 —Overture starts.
8.18 —Show starts.
8.47-9.2 —Interval.
9.ls—Norah unhooks Blanche.
9.30 — Blanche takes down her hair.
9.31- —Great undressing act by Blanche.
9.36-9.40 —Allegedly humorous undressing act by
Monti, the Dago comedian.
9.40-9.52 —Interval.
9.53 —Waking act by Blanche.
10.20—Telephone sleight-of-hand performance by
Norah..
10.36 —Twin-Beds transformation scene.
In spite of all these attractions, the com-
pany will take up its bunk and walk
on Monday of next week; and if Wood-
row Wilson carries out his alleged
intention of prohibiting the export of muni-
tions to Britain, a few other Yankee products
will soon afterwards find it advisable to take
up their beds and follow.
** * *
After beiug in darkness for a week the
Sydney Royal is to be re-opened on Satur-
day by the popular Bert Bailey Co. with
“On our Sel” No, no; not this. time.
“What Happened to Mary.” According to
the producers it is an old-fashioned love
story. “Its comedy is real comedy, with
laughter and tears and seriousness and joy
intermixed.” With a dash of bitters and
some ice it ought to go well in this weather.
* * * *
Letty is still saying “So-long” at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), but, like most of the
sex, she doesn't mean it —not while the
money lasts, anyhow.
“Dick Whittington,” no longer having a
monopoly of the Lord Mayor business of
Sydney, will don some new and brighter
clothes on Saturday, in preparation for fierce
competition with Richard Denis Meagher’s
show at the Town Hall. The most import-
ant addition to the Adelphi panto, will be a
scene depicting the interior of a cabin of a
boat in a rough sea, a rare situation for
comedians Dan Thomas, Harry Burgess, Ted
Stanley and Billy Watson to knock about in.
Eddie McLean (Dick’s hard-worked cat) and
sister Deeima will introduce some new dance
eccentricities, and Matembo and Wells will
give a new assortment of their clever comedy-
“DICK WHITTINGTON.” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Alderman Fitzwarren (Crossley) interests
Idle Jack (Watson) with his attractions.
acrobatics. Producer Lester Brown adds
further brilliancies in stage effects to gild
the Adelphi rainbow.
* * * *
At the Palace (Sydney) a dramatisation
of Bex Beach's well-known story of Alaskan
life has been played for the past week
by George Marlow’s co., with Ethel
Buckley as Cherry Malotte, the music-
hall artiste. The free life of the
Far North mining camp is familiar to every
frequenter of the flicker houses: but the
films left out Charles Taylor's delightful
chuckle as Dextry, the “pard.” And there
were other laughs they missed. Slap Jack
(Frank Reis) whooped; Helen Chester, the
heroine (Jean Robertson), rippled; and
Cherry, in her first scene, delivered herself
of three distinct sets of noises, any one of
which would let j’ou know that she was the
Woman Who Did. The caste was even, and
Ethel Buckley’s work so appealing that one
felt sorry she was doomed to draw only a
consolation prize in the marriage lottery.
“The Spoilers” is a highly moral show. Even
Archbishop Wright could look on a naughty
poster without ill effects after spending an
evening with it.
;J: * :'c &
At the Sydney Tivoli singer Peter Dawson
is the strong draw of the week, and he is
giving his admirers (anybody who isn't his
admirer is invited to arise any night and
say so) more than good value for the admis-
sion money. He even invites you to hand in
during the day the name of any song in his
“THE PANTO.;”
AT HER
MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
The Fairy. Jill.
repertoire you fancy, and he will sing it for
your special benefit that night. For the
rest of the show the Follies provide most of
the fun and frolic.
$ * 3
Henry Kolker. a support of some weight
in the Margaret Anglin co. that toured Aus-
tralia two or three years ago, returns to
Sydney in the movies as a human earth-
quake. In “The Warning,” an anti-whisky
drama showing at the Crystal Palace this
week, he is alleged to present a “crashing
vision of Heaven and Hell in a man’s own
soul.” As a drunken father, he crashes
through the home and bursts up its acces-
sories, but pulls up against a cleverly-acted
seven-year-old youngster, and is drawn back
on to the chalk-line again. Australian Lily
Leslie shows to advantage as the long-
suffering wife in the piece. At the Lyric,
Colonial and Empress there is the usual
liberal helping of flicked comedy and drama.
* * * *
Sidney’s big open-air pleasure ground, the
White City, which re-opened for the sum-
mer months recently, has been specialising
ia gay, fancy-dress carnivals. Last season
the carnival nights caught popular fancy,
and this year manager Eslick has decided to
let p.f. have the time of its life. Next
Thursday (27th) will be a “Pierrot night.”
** $ $
A week of “Who’s the Lady?” at Mel-
bourne King’s will strengthen the reputation
of the “Glad Eye” Co., although it may
fail to give renown to that essentially French
comedy. From an 'Australian point of
view “Who’s the Lady?” suffers from super-
fluity of complications and diffusion of mis-
understandings after the sultry first act.
The farce has a little too mitch plot and
too close a bearing on French government in
the Minister of Justice’s Department. If
two or three characters were cut clean out
of the story the humor of it would be closer,
but in that case the curtain would fall too
soon for a public that values its entertain-
ment by the furlong. Characters who
could be spared are humorously placed, all
the same. None of the people are irrelevant
bores. The trouble is that the make weights
collectively represent a loss. The amount
of human interest they put into the busi-
ness is less than they distract from the lead-
ing principals.
■'MJ the big parts are admirably cast.
H. J. Ford, as the Minister of Justice, is
convincing as far as translated farcical
comedy permits of realism. Shelford is a
model of a private secretary—a striking
reminder of the W allington who prepared
instructions for a series of vice-regal persons
JJ* Australia and whose watchword was
Better not. Bradley has improved his per-


0 O ORDAS ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., SydneyU
DT
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
TASMANIA-™'
Summer Resort
of Tourists.
wm
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
Proprietors:
Trustees Estate of the late George Adams.
Hig'Hfield
—The Latest in Hotels.
Remodelled & Refurnished
New Winter Garden
Spacious Dining Rooms
Cuisine —highest class
Entirely New Management.
Tariff—o 3- to 75/-
All Correspondence to be directed
to the Manager.
formance of the wowser magistrate, which
was a good performance a year ago. Florence
Fanning seems positively probable in the im-
possible part of the wowser’s cook wife, to
whom a brass coalscuttle is as a light that
must be made to shine in the darkness. And
Ethel Dane has a natural talent, together
with every other qualification for imper-
sonating a Gobette. When Gobette simply
insists on being kissed by a complete
stranger there is no more to be said against
giddiness. This naughty little birdie chirps
upon the scene, and lo! the angel of Virtue
folds her wings and starts moulting. Mrs.
Grundy feels the hopelessness of protesting
against Gobette. She is the daughter of
Joy, born into the world to make bad men
happy and good girls envious. The mole
on her neck is the Mecca of the Unfaithful.
The ends and purposes of enchanting Gobette
are absurdly falsified, however, in an Eng-
lish adaptation of a French comedy. Landor,
Walter Vincent, Dorothy Hastings and
Tilton are others concerned in a good all-
round display of acting. If “Who’s the
Lady?” is to run for a week only “The
Chaperon” will be staged on Saturday.
* * $ *
“Mother Goose,” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
continues to be favorably known by its
ballets, balloons, dream-girl, swings and
things. Also, the imported “comedians” are
matters of less favorable comment, and the
matinees and the evenings are the sixth
week.
* * * *
Friday will be the last Julius Knight at
Melbourne Princess’s, and if the advt. sticks
to its promise “The Christian” will be the
bijjl. John Storm was to have burst into
fury last Saturday, but at the eleventh hour
tfie management decided to continue the
“Lady of Lyons” until Tuesday of this week.
Next Saturday (22nd) George Marlow will
ask forgiveness for his past crimes of melo-
drama production by restoring Immortal
William to the Melbourne stage. A new co.,
headed by Allan Wilkie and Miss Hunter-
Watts, will set the Shakspearian ball rolling
with “The Merchant of Venice.” The
Bulletin’s best wishes go with Marlow’s
unlooked-for venture. This journal prefers
“The Merchant” to “The Worst Girl in the
Reformatory.”
'•* sfc s|j
“Under Fire” is in its last nights period
at the Melbourne Royal. Next week, pro-
bably, the bonzer bomb will go bang for the
last time and the ruthless German army
will cease to march past Atholwood’s pub
every time the front door is opened. Some
new planets from the land of stars and
stripes are preparing to appear in “It Pays
to Advertise,” which is a well-established
fact in Amurka and elsewhere.
* * * *
Scherbelis the Mighty Russian is the
strongest feature of the present Tivoli bill
in Melbourne. This appalling Ally is a
wrastler, muscle-bulger and champion iron
breaker. Ten armies of him, supplied with
“THE PANTO .,” AT
HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Arthur Reynolds
as the Laird.
the necessary artillery, would make pork and
beans of the German menace. The rest of
the bill is not so brawny. Barton and Asli-
iey have reverted to their old sketch, in which
the lady figures as a Pure Innocent dwelling
on the uttermost summit of the Andes moun-
tains (where the painted landscape is of
mixed origin and artificial palm-trees grow
in pots), and the man is a shaggy intruder
who drops from a balloon. Other “turns”
are sadly acrobatic or strictly musical, and
among these latter the misguided Leroy Sis-
ters are conspicuous for the youthful beauty
of their voices. Sweeter tones were never
turned to worse account.
* s;< * *
Lutes, a maimed Ainurkan person vylio
uses his feet for hands, is an interesting
curiosity at Melbourne Bijou, where lie
demonstrates that he can employ liis under-
standings even to the extent of making ex-
cellent rifle practice and performing skil-
fully with carpenter’s tpols. The only other
stranger on the programme is Eileen Fleury,
who is one of the depressing horde of imita-
tors aroused to activity by the recent brilli-
ant work of Alice Pierce. Eileen is not in
the Alice Pierce class, but she is as gifted
as other plagiarists in the same line of busi-
ness. In the second portion of the bill the
Stanhope co. is reviving “Fun on the Farm,”
wherein half-baked scones are the media
ot polite expostulation, and the monkey
aa hiskers of Stanhope are as ruddy as before.
Adelaide, with both Royal and Tivoli
closed for the moment —the former promises
Anderson s melodrama shortly—has two out-
door costume concert-parties to choose be-
tween, Waller’s Ideals at Austral Gardens
and Branscombe’s Dandies behind the Exhi-
bition. Each is a pleasant party, not out-of-
the-way brilliant, but clean and clever.
Y\ est s put up Lenore Ulrich, with Desmond
m support, against the old attractions. Marv
I ickford and Blanche Sweet, at Wonder-
graph. The King’s has parted with its
Hebrew comedians, after a long and success-
ful season, and now makes a feature of Her-
bert Brooks and his Trunk mystery. Belle
and Betty enliven some fairly good dancing
by unusually good stage management, and
Essie McNeill makes full use of her eyes and
her smile as well as her charming contralto.
“Green Tape”: The incorrigible N.S.W.
Tublic Service Board is advertising again
for a crop of temporary clerks for the Taxa-
tion Department at 10s. and Lis. a day. The
Public Service Act lays down the manner
m which entrance into the service is to be
gained, and the taxpayer has his pocket
guarded by a series of medical and educa-
tional tests prescribed for all applicants.
So he thinks ! As a matter of fact, tempo-
rary clerks dodge all this. Three times have
the Taxation Department “temporary”
clerks been made permanent, because, as
stated by the Premier and the Board as
recently as last year, “the officers had made
themselves familiar with the affairs of the
Income Tax payers, and it was highly ad-
visable that they be made permanent.”
Apparently this weary foolishness is to begin
again. Obviously the better course would
be to advertise the positions as permanent
and thus attract a really competent class
of applicant. Anyhow, if there is a word’ of
defence to be said for the present way of
doing things then the entire basis of' the
Public Service Board is utterly wrong.
From a persistent pressgirl:—
Christopher Mudd having told an Unpleasant Sun-
day Afternoon in Melbourne, that there are thousands
of disloyalists in the Victorian Baekblocks hindering
recruiting, and no end of school-teachers who are
whooping for Germany, The Bulletin (13/1/’l6)
suggested that Christopher should be pressed for
details. Not hearing that anybody else Avas pressing
Christopher I decided to do it myself.
I found him in a-dingy, ill-ventilated room, sur-
rounded by tracts, sea-shells, certificates of merit
for classifying dandelions, hymn books, and an
ancient organ. In the midst of this debris Chris-
topher opened wide his mouth and made his nose
say: “Noa, I’m not going to tell where I obtained
my information about disloyal school-teachers. I’m
not such a fool as to tell Avhat I knoiv, when Fisher,
the Prime Minister, cannot win a libel case. The
Minister of Defence always makes the same reply
after he has investigated cases of supposed dis-
loyalty : ‘I find there is nothing in it.’ ”
Curbing my desire to study the technique of Chris-
topher’s voice production, I put it to him that as a
man of righteousness it Avas his duty to sort out
the general accusations he had trumpeted against the
hard-working Victorian country teacher. From the
farthest recesses of his nasal cavity came the reitera-
tion that Christopher knew but would not tell.
Then I manoeuvred afresh. “AVere you in the
schools when the teachers spoke disloyally?” I asked
Avith childlike simplicity. “Noa,” he replied; “but
the children and their mothers told me about it.”
Then Christopher thaAved slightly and gave me a
heartrending story about his housekeeper Avho
attended a picnic, and heard two men say to two
Avounded soldiers: “Serves you right.” A feAv more
remarks of similar calibre Avere all I could extract
from the patriot. “I promised the people,” he said
with pride, “that I’d speak about the disloyalty, and
I have done so. The Government lias Avritten to ask
me for an explanation, but, of course, I’m not going
to give it to ’em.”
That’s all. Christopher’s name is Mudd. I’m con-
vinced it deserves to be.
The line between the duties of the military
and civil police has at lengili been drawn in
an unmistakable manner. The direct cause
of the action was Frank Anstey, M.H.R.,
battling, as usual, for an under-dog who
seemed to need a friend. The other day
Anstey was turned out of the Melbourne
Town Hall recruiting-depot by certain mili-
tary police, he having attempted to take the
part of a young man who appeared to be
getting roughly handled. Too much “push”
spirit w T as shown in pushing Anstey out, and
an inquiry followed. The military police
concerned were withdrawn from the depot
and sent back to Broadmeadows camp as a
consequence; and the Defence Minister has
issued instructions which will permit Anstey
or any other citizen to perform a citizen’s
duty if the circumstances seem to demand it.
Hereafter the military police will attend to
soldiers only, while the civil police will deal
with civilians in their usual capable manner
—and deal it out to them, as of yore, when-
ever the time seems ripe and the occasion fit.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Harold Ashton was the other day included
in the J. C. Williamson Co.’s voluminous
directorate.. The perennial youth was in the
mummery line when he was very young; he
was a boy reporter on the Adelaide press
before he took one-line parts in Wybert
Iteeve’s company. Then he did some adven-
turous busking round >S. Aus., and figured
as a judge of elocution contests in Maori-
land. Subsequently he became advance
agent for Hugo’s Minstrels, went on from
advance agency to business management,
and has now arrived at the J.CAY. Board.
Edward Dyson has lately been scorning
delights and living laborious days preparing
a stage version of “Fact’ry ’Andsl” for pro-
duction in Sydney, at the Palace, in Feb-
ruary. The play, which is in four acts, is
now finished and about to be nut into re-
hearsal. Practically all the well-known
employees of Spats’s fact’ry figure’ in it, and
the best-remembered incidents of the popular
Bulletin yarns are reproduced. Some
weird and wonderful dress “creations” have
been designed for the production by Ted’s
sister (Mrs. Harrison Owen).
A little dramatic joke by J. M. Barrie
has been played at a matinee in His
Majesty’s, London, on behalf of the charities
that look after the wounded Kangaroos in
England. It was called “The Fatal Typist”
and is a love-making duologue upside-down.
Gerald Du Maurier comes before the curtain
agitated and in great distress. He explains
that owing to all the female typists having
been commandeered for work in the war-
munitions factories, the job of copying out
the parts had to be entrusted to a mere
male, who had messed the thing up dread-
fully. “My role has been given to Gladys
Cooper and it is her part that I have
learned. What’s to be done? I suppose we
must keep the piece going as best Ave can.”
So up goes the curtain and Gerald figures
as Angelina being made love to by Gladys
Cooper, the swell military lady-killer. Queen-
mother Alexandra, Princess Victoria, a Rus-
sian Grand Duchess, princesses and princes
by the packet, the Brasseys, the. Denmans,
Edmund Barton (just finished packing up)
and various others of credit and renown
were conspicuous in the Royal boxes and
roundabout. A large contingent of wounded
made Tree’s spacious playhouse echo Avith
their coo-ees. They gave a boisterous wel-
come to countrywoman Alice Crawford, who
recited some rag verses illustrative of old
times in her native Bendigo. The perform-
ance washed up for a satisfactory £2641,
Melba weighing in by cable from the other
side of the Atlantic with a hundred guineas.
“Que”: Veteran George Darrell is again
about Sydney, hale and hearty. How is it
Australian managers have not been after
him for “The Forlorn Hope,” his sensational
drama of many years ago. in which one of
the big scenes showed the departure of Aus-
tralian troops to fight with the soldiers of
England on the battlefields of Europe?
If George Darrell had been an American
or an Englishman that particular bellow
Avould be showing by now at one of our
theatres.
From London; —
Lewis AValler passed out at Nottingham, succumb-
ing to double pneumonia originating in a chill con-
tracted while making strenuous open-air recruiting
speeches in damp, moist, wintry weather. He might
have pulled through if he had not foolishly gone
out playing golf with Harry Lauder when he ought
to have been snugly tucked up under the blankets.
I think he was certainly the handsomest actor and
perhaps the finest elocutionist of recent years. Most
generous in every Avay, money ran through his
fingers like water through a sieve, and he Avas
badly sponged upon. He played 410 parts in his
time; but the finest nugget he ever unearthed was
“Monsieur Beaucaire” —which, by the way, at its
trial performance was unanimously condemned by
all the West End managers save one, Sir Charles
AVyndham, who predicted that it would capture
the public. He Avas right. It ran for close on 500
nights. AValler had been Avarmly thanked by the
AVar Office for his recruiting speeches, which were
really among the finest England has heard in this
crisis.
“B. J.”: Victoria Buildings, at tlie south-
east corner of Collins and Swanston-
streets, Melbourne, where the Tourist
Bureau has its offices, has been bought
by a shindykit in which bookmaker
Sol Green, J. M. Gillespie and others
are interested, for £lOO,OOO. The idea is
ultimately to build a theatre on the site;
but some of the leases have ten years to
run, and to arrange transfers will take
a little time. The shinkykit wants to
form an Australian theatre circuit, and in
this connection it may be noted that a pui-
cliaser whose name has been kept secret
recently bought the valuable Belfield Hotel
property in Sydney for £112,000.
The Appendreena, Adelaide's fashionable
amateur dramatic society, has published one
of the quaintest balance-sheets on record.
It is in connection with a recent charity
performance of “His Excellency the Gov-
ernor.” The quaintness comes with. a list
of small expenses usually lumped in the
obscurity of Petty Cash. The Government
House party which attended is faced with
the embarrassing fact that it ate or smelt—--
“bouquet and sweets (Lady Galway)”—l2
shillings-worth of what would otherwise have
gone to Wounded Soldiers. Other unusual
items are “ammunition, 65.” (expended in
firing volleys during the play) and “fish,
Bd.” —presumably a bit of realism for the
breakfast scene.
(Continued on page 3Jf.)
When somebody mentioned in the British
House of Commons the other day that a
cousin of Yon Tirpitz was employed at the
War Office —the said employment having
been secured after the military governor of
a district in Yorkshire had asked the lady
to take herself off —John Bull drew a long
breath and started thinking with great de-
liberation. And when somebody else re-
marked that one of Yon Tiedup’s sons had
been staying with the lady just before the
flames broke out, John looked round for a
quiet place to sit down and think some more.
But it was all right. A member of the Min-
istry explained that the lady had shown
many acts of loyalty to her adopted country
and could be trusted implicitly. Whereupon
Asquith allowed the incident to close. He
might have offended Yon Tirpitz if he
hadn’t. And you can’t be too careful about
not offending people you are at war with.
An eccentric genius who had been worry-
ing editors and aldermen and politicians for
many years died in Sydney the other day.
He might have made a name for himself
if it had been necessary for him to get finan-
cial results from his work. As it was he had
enough cash to satisfy his few extravagances,
and he always chased his ideas round a cor-
ner. He was trained as an architect but
early forsook his profession to devote his
whole time to his ideas. For over a decade
he interviewed City Councillors with his
model garbage destructor, designed to deal
with all the waste of a city and pass out
fertiliser, pure tin, ammonia and other
products. He built a house and was so in-
tent on innovations that he forgot the stair-
case. _ Attached to the residence was a cre-
matorium, and when he was officially com-
manded not to cook human beings in it he
utilised it for the purpose of cremating other
animals, the ashes of which he used to fertilise
his garden. But he had higher ambitions
than dog, reckoning that, if given a chance,
he could prove his theory that human ashes,
owing to the variety of foods consumed by
mankind, would be the most valuable of all
manure. His efforts to induce friends whose
relatives had died to hand over their remains
caused a lot of offence; and his own dying
wish that he should be spread in the vege-
table garden was ignored.
“Monkbarns” from the old Courthouse:—
“Nemo,” in an otherwise excellent paragraph
apropos Holrovd and the old Melbourne Equity Court
(B. 13/1/’l6), does not render justice to Wilberforee
Stephen, unquestionable leader of the Equity Bar
until he became Judge. Webb was nearly always
with him as jifhior. Stephen followed Stawell, and
preceded Hodges, as Chancellor of the Church of Eng-
land. , He also became Education Minister in the
Cabinet which introduced the present Education Act.
It was he who, at a public meeting in the St. Kilda
Town Hall, made the well-remembered statement:
“The Education Act will be a sharp wedge to rend
the Catholics asunder.” But the prediction went
wrong, for the Act has been the making of the
lt.C's. Judge Molesworth, senior in the Equity Court
in those days, wrote such a frightful hand that the
comps, got extra for setting up his judgments. His
fly crawled over little square pieces of blue paper
tied with ribbon. Judge Fellows, of the same
period, was less particular about his paper. He once
handed the Argus a judgment written on the backs
of his household bills—grocer's, butcher’s and even
milliner’s.
John Sands’ Sydney, Suburban and Country
Directory for 1916, just published, might
have been made a most interesting compila-
tion if there had been no censorship. In-
stead, the compulsory residents of a couple
of Important new settlements in N. S. Wales
have had to be entirely ignored. However,
the list of remaining Sell’s and Yons in the
alphabetical lists is sufficient to promptly
send any cold-footed Ilun-hunter into a high
fever. The Directory is as complete and
reliable as ever in all its sections, and is
indispensable to the business man in coun-
try or city. John Sands, Ltd., of Sydnev,
publishes it at 275. 6d.
LINKS TO A HOMESICK PRO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I send you greetings from across the Avater;
I stretch a hand to you from oversea ;
May the budding year be laden deep with gladness—
-1 or you and yours from any gods that be 1
And as the New Year came towards the footlights,
All eagerly from Time to take the cue,
I filled a glass Avith sweet and golden liquor,
And drank “Good Luck!” to you.
N.S.AV.
BILLY B.


The "D.J.” Tunic Shirt, 4|6
Correctly out from specially-selected
Cambric-?, cool and durable, sewn
and finished in our own workr-uns.
These shirts have stiff: cuffs and
neckband on soft body, and may be
had in sizes 14in. to ITHn. nevk.
Colors: White -rounds, with sing
or fancy stripes of Black. Helio.
i«r Blue ias illustrated!.
Price 4 6 each: 3 for 13 3.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPPOSITE 6.P.0.. SYDNEY.
,v m
-
/ 1 9 179
S*>£-S£VB( N
LUXUR/A
Cologne.
t ZA
are.u.
m
t n*
n
M
Smmf* Bret* iJ. jv_r/ fra.
Parviola Perfumery Co.
\ormanby Road. South Melbourne.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
V- urnished ant! Up-to-date Hotel is
now complete in every detail, and.
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He l.uve iu most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER.
Managing Director.
Society
THE OTHER PRETTY GIRL.
HE: "Pretty girt, isn't she?”
SHE : "A pity she's such a cot.”
HE: "Oh, hut how do you know she's a
cot ?”
SHE: "Why, I'm her dearest friend.”
She was charged the other day at Sydney
with bigamy, but the allegedly rightful hus-
band wasn't Quite sure of her. "If that is
the woman I married 2o years ago." he ex-
plained. "she has altered a lot." Xor could
he remember the name of the child they pro-
duced during the two years they lived
together. All he knew was that whoever
he married cleared out with the infant.
There was then a break in the historical
record, which was resumed when, as a
widow with seven children, she (or some-
body else' acQuired another husband. It
was a queer case and the magistrate said
a jury had better be consulted. But it
wasn't as queer as the also-recent case of a
woman who suddenly descended on a butcher
and swore that she had been married to
him _‘T years before, when he was quite good-
looking and she was fresh and fair. It
looked as if the butcher, despite his frenzied
repudiation of the yarn, was in a tight place,
until the lady mentioned that he had lost a
toe while they were living happily together.
Whereupon the butcher threw off his boots
and exhibited his feet, and after the Court
had solemnly counted the ends it accepted
10 toes as an alibi, told him to clear out
and adjourned. He bolted like a hare.
* * * *
If anybody mentions science to the Ilans
who is left when the war is ov&r, he is
likely to get beer emptied over him. IN hen
Hans awakes in the morning to pull him-
self into the scanty raiment science has
devised for his discomfort, he proceeds to
make his morning meal. First he has an
artificial egg, which “contains all the con-
stituents of a hen’s egg but more scientifi-
cally proportioned.” Then he has coffee of
boiled nuts and beans, with artificial cream
“made of a chemical mixture that is pure
and agreeable to the palate” and a few
slices of straw-flour bread. After reading
the scientifically censored letter from his
son —who is fighting scientifically, as he
reads in the scientifically censored paper—
he goes out to seientfic toil. Later in the
day, with the idea of scientifically buoying
up his spirits, he has a glass of "kulrnet.
which “contains no alcohol and no malt, but
its color is guaranteed to convey to the
drinker’s mind the illusion that he is enjoy-
ing real beer.” He lunches upon scientifi-
cally prepared dogs-meat sausages at a shil-
ling a pound, a “cheese” “guaranteed to
have a certain quantity of skimmed milk
amongst its ingredients” and some artificial
jam. Then, being luxurious, but not suffici-
ently affluent to pay 15s. per lb. for China
tea. he has to be content with a scientifi-
cally prepared mixture, extracted from any
old things that the chemists found handy
and sold at 4s. or ss. per lb. On this fare
he is expected to take his part in the scien-
tifically compelled rejoicing over a scientifi-
cally faked victory. “Back to Nature. ’
meaning thereby pig and onions, will be a
great war-cry in Germany when the trouble
is over.
• • * •
The employer who wants a typist or
a lady bookkeeper or anything of that sort,
for whom he is prepared to pay 15s. or f 1
per week, simply tosses a shilling advt. into
the papers and waits for the rush: but this
is how it is done when women workers for
a factory are required : —-
The following are reasons why workers should
enrol: —-
(1) Highest wages given.
(2) Constant work all the year.
(3) Employees can buy goods at our shop at a
discount.
(4) We have a hospital, with a qualified nurse in
attendance.
(5) We supply all employees with tea free.
t_6) Our factory is the finest in Australia.
And that is only part of it. Employers are
simply howling for female labor of the right
stamp—intelligent, willing and capable—and
are prepared to pay big wages to secure it.
besides offering baits like those mentioned.
But the average girl prefers the cheap and
mostly sham gentility of the comparatively
useless job. Queer ideas of caste are
the trouble; and something like a cam-
paign to convince Australia’s heroines
that the home trenches are worth
holding appears to be needed. If a short
Act were passed under which all factory
ladies were to be styled Miss and all office
women called Sarah a lot of the difficulty
might be got over.
Figures made available by John Mustow,
who keeps the melancholy records in connec-
tion with the Court of Insolvency at Mel-
bourne, show that only one bookmaker in
Victoria became financially addled during
1913. which is another argument in
favor of the totalisator. There were 167
sequestrations in all, and a rough analysis
indicates that brawn contributed 40 pdr cent,
of these, brain (architects, clerks, teachers)
10 per cent., and wits (agents, hawkers,
builders 1 17 per cent. The balance was
mostly made up of retailers (13 per cent.), a
sprinkling of manufacturers, married women
and public servants, and one importer got
lost and found himself in this galley. Doc-
tors. lawyers, clergymen and undertakers
are conspicuous by their entire absence, and
every actor in the State managed to placate
the bailiff until the New Year came in. But
what Melbourne papers regard as the most
remarkable thing about the list is the fact
that it contains only three more names than
the tally for 1914. "despite the war.” It
takes a long while for some people to wake
up to the fact that so far the war has been
with us merely a case of lavishly spending
borrowed money, and that the hard times
will only come with the bill.
A DEFINITION.
ROY : “S ay. Uncle, what is repartee?"
UNCLE : “Oh, merely an insult with its dress clothes on, my boy .”
‘‘S.S. spends a happy day at the seaside:
El wood sands have been made available
to the people of seven sweltering suburbs by a new
tram service, and on hot days the place should be
prosecuted for overcrowding. On one sultry after-
noon during the recent holidays, when there was
standing room only for a hundred yards out. the
mother of a numerous brood suddenly missed little
Willie. She communicated her fears to father, and
then had a fit. Father collected his family, counted
it and immediately behaved like a hen whom a
housefather is seeking to strafe with an axe. In-
stantly 31 acres of sea and sard contracted hysteria,
and the quest of little Willie began. Every third
man and every second woman found a child some-
where, and rushed it to Willie's parents in the fond
hope that it might be little Willie. One distracted
matron took a dog, and another wild woman threw
a plate of sandwiches at the “ "eartless ’ussy"’ for
doing it. One man pinched an infant from under a
picnickers’ trap in the belief that it was the missing
link. He was chased by the lawful father and
mother aid the established grandma, who took the
child from him and almost all his clothes with it.
Then grandma held the child while papa and mamma
tried to another the well-meaning stranger in wet
sand and stifle him with dead fish. Meanwhile the
father and mother of Willie were encumbered with
five boys and four girls whom nobody seemed to
own, and who were delivered by kindly people ea-.tr
to help in the restoration of the lost child. When
Willie's parents refused to accept responsibility for
the miscellaneous children thrust upon them tie
people delivering the goods said it was easy to see
what tJkef were—they were impostors. While Willie's
papa was earnestly fighting the loudest traducer
Willie reappeared. He bad only been impersonating
the buried hero under a shelled trench at Anzac, and
when dug up and treated was scarcely the worse for
wear.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Some travellers in an out-of-the-
way part of the Lake district i. Tas. 1 lately
put up for the night with a shepherd who
grumbled about his lonely lot. and com-
plained that for months together in the
winter he had no one to speak to hut his
dogs. One of them asked why he didn't get
married. “Well.'' said the bac-kbloeker. "I
did try that once, but the thing died
on me.”
The A.W.U. reckons it has sent 15.000
men to the colors out of 80,000; the X.S.W.
Railway Workers' Union says it has con-
tributed 3000 of its 18.000 odd ; and the New-
castle Colliery Employees’ Federation esti-
mates that 1000 of its 9000 have gone to the
Front. But the industry of making toys
from oyster shells has contributed all its
followers. He volunteered in Sydney.
* * * *
“Mil”: Now the Defence Department, hav-
ing a vacancy for an accountant at the Dun-
troon Military College, advertises that appli-
cations are invited from “natural born or
naturalised British subjects.” Apparently
the Defence Department isn't dead-sure that
there are any Australians equal to the task
of adding two and two.
IT'S THE BUMP THAT HURTS.
WIFE Y : “Why don't you go out and enjoy
yourself sometimes, dear! Go to the
Club, for instance.”
HURRY : “Well. I don't Kant to get into the
habit of haring a good time .”
PREPARED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long mist lies along the northern sea,
Through the grey days the grey ships come and go,
The silent watchers, grim as destiny,
That hold the world's wide gate against the foe.
Tne clamor of loud engines belching death,
The reek of poison fumes, the tortured day,
The bleak hills blasted with the war's red breath,
The shrieking bolts that break in fiery spray,
These are the tokens of the war that sways
And staggers, drank with blood, across the lands,
Where the long trench the flood of ruin stays
And sleepless Freedom strives with tireless hands.
Seaward the guns are silent. Watch on watch
The black flood whitens to the gliding keel;
And patience, like a spectre, stands to match
Her changeless heart to that embattled steel.
Long is the vigil. Fretfully the foe
Chafes in an ecstasy of helpless hate,
As through his dreams of fear forever go
In long procession the grey ships of Fate.
To east or west some hard-fought battle sways;
Hope shudders and the ranks of death grow thin—
Oil, shapeless nights! Oh. haze-enchanted days!
The sea has bloodless battles still to win!
Because the guardian steel was wrought in peace,
Because in peace the long ships took the flood,
Because the forge and hammer did not cease
When Europe cleansed her hands a while from
blood.
In the long weighing of the nations’ deeds,
This to the scale of doom its weight must lend,
The thunders stored to serve war's wildest needs
In hours of calm are silent to the end.
x.s.w.
D. M. W.
TO THE LADY WHO SWAPPED LOBSTERS WITH
ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bright as a star that swoons across the night;
Rich as a sunset spread along the blue;
Safe in its passage as the grey gull's flight
May this year be to you!
X.S.W.
BILLY B.


—get “Midway”
SHIRTS—
made to your
measure for
5/6 each
It need cost you no more to get your Shirts made
to your order at PIKE BROTHERS.
Here’s a shirt now. Made to your measure with
soft, turn-back cuffs. Well and evenly stitched.
Nice to look at. Feels good and wears well.
5/6 each, or 31/6 for Six.
Send To-day for a Free Range of Patterns. You incur no
obligation to Purchase. Just tear out this Advertisement and
Post To-day, with your Name and Address.
PIKE BROTHERS,
LIMITED
m
;n
H
Toowoomba
BRISBANE
Townsville
Double-breasted Flannel Suit
—a distinctive “ NO=VESTE ” Style.
It is some time since we have been able to feature these popular
Suits, on account of the difficulty in obtaining materials. Our
latest consignment brought us a good, dark, Plain Grey British
Flannel, which we have made up in the “No-Veste” (Regd.)
Double-breasted, Two-button Sac Style, with three outside patch
pockets and vent back. Trousers have side, hip and fob pockets
and permanent turn-up bottoms. The coat is unlined and unpadded
—very cool for Summer'wear.
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg measurement#
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD..
Men's Outfitters.
309 &. 311 George Street, Sydney.
*
Concerning the tail-docked Kangaroo:—
If the “Kangaroos” who lately did a tiresome
trudge from Wagga to Sydney had not swollen
heads and feet it was not the fault of either the
villages they had to pass through or the sun. Every-
where they were glorified. Flappers hugged and
mugged them. Their petticoated elders provided an
orgy of levity in the sacred name of patriotism.
Pompous presidents of shires, mighty mayors, portlv
priests, pump-handling parsons and paltering knaves
of politicians vied with each other in platitudinising
on their nobility. What time they were not expand-
ing their martial breasts with pride they were
stuffing themselves with turkey and tarts and tea,
and thinking of the delightful temptations they
would have to face at the journey’s end, when Inno-
cence, Prudence and Tea would disappear from the
menu. With throats well prepared for lubrication,
with pockets well-lined with back-pay, with at
least a week’s leave, they were going to have the
time of their lives. But Bill bargained without the
Boss. The merciless martinet inspected him and
lauded him, and then hurled a bomb at him by
telling him that as he had been such a good boy he
was to be treated to a ride in the train to Goulburn,
and was to march to the railway station at once.
This was too much for Bill, and, true to the Aus-
tralian instinct, he went on strike. The Empire
might fall but he would stand up for his inalienable
rights. Then somebody reminded him that in some
places he would be shot early to-morrow morning
for no more than this; and Bill thought better of it
and trudged to the train. Experience had taught
even the military heads a lesson. Of course, the men
continue to resent the treatment, but later on they
may learn that many of them were being protected
against themselves —being saved from disease, disgrace
and dishonor. The incident ought to put a stop to the
tomfoolery of “route-marches.” It is the sublimity
of absurdity to march a lot of recruits to Sydney
180 miles past a railway station and military en-
campment, and then charter a special train to take
them back 1
* * * *
Letter received from Margate by last mail,
showing what it costs to send forth heroes:
To the Editor.—Dear Sir, —Will you kindly let me
through your paper appeal to some of the oider sons
of the Motherland to help two helpless, lonely women,
mother and daughter?
We had a business in London; 13 years ago mother
was ordered to Broadstairs for her health. When
all was paid we had just our furniture. By hard
work we made both ends meet by letting apartments.
When the first air raid came last May our house
emptied, and now we are faced with a distress on
our furniture for rates. We had to borrow the sum,
£l3, at 6 p.c. They summoned us, and though I
told the Justices that we had only 10s. weekly
allowed us by the Prince of Wales Fund for food,
they made an order against us. One quarter’s rent
is now overdue £l7 10s., and another at Christmas.
We are in despair, for to lose our furniture is to lose
our living. I have appealed to several of our rich
men, but in vain. So the thought came to me that
the country that found us such grand, noble boys
would come to the help of two women (one an
invalid) who called over the sea to them.
Now I want to tell you how grateful we are for
the splendid boys you sent us. My pen cannot write
what is in our hearts. But your boys and the Canadians
are known at m distance, so fine, so smart, just like
fresh blooming roses. Their bravery will live for
ever, just as the love we bear them will live while
life lasts. P.S. —Mother is 65, and unable to use
one arm.
HIS HEART AND HAND.
THE LADY : “But, Algernon, I am afraid
you have been drinking.”
THE ALGERNON : “True, my darling; but I’d
have been afraid if I hadn't been.”
“T. 0.1.”: A trip along the road over the
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) discloses many
relics of some of Sydney’s early citizens. At
. ascoes (now Blaxland, in memory of one
of the three who crossed in 1813) is still the
old house known as the Pilgrim Inn in its
earliest days, but as “Wascoe’s” later on.
lames Outram Wascoe belonged to an old
English family, of which the Indian general
of Mutiny fame was a member. Wascoe’s
mother was a sister of General Outram.
GOOD RESERVES.
TEACHER: Tommy, you wretched little beast, stop beating your little brother. You'll
kill him."
TOMMY: “Wot do I care! Got two more like him at home.”
Vrascoe’s inn was of the old English type.
When the railway passed the business ended,
and the landlord got a billet in the Stores
Department of the Railways. At Valleys is an-
other ancient inn, which became the moun-
tain home of Geoffrey Eager, one-time
Colonial Treasurer and subsequently per-
manent Under-Secretary for Finance. Still
further west is a third house, also, one-time
a roadside inn, the Woodford, now a resi-
dential college. Up here Alfred Stephen
and James Martin, Chief Justices, had coun-
try houses, all now wiped out, though the
foundations of a vast mansion by Martin
are still to be seen. Here also is a natural
curio, a bath in the rock, still known as
“Lady Martin’s bath.” Not far off Henry
Parkes had a section, 640 acres, on which he
built a cottage and laid out a cemetery.
The cottage is there still, unoccupied—at
least jt was a few months ago—and the ceme-
tery is adorned with a cheap obelisk to the
memory of. the old Parliamentary hand. Be-
tween Linden and Woodford is a large
circular tank cut out of rock, and now and
always filled with water. It is the site of
Captain Bull’s camp of early date. The
Captain, monarch of all he surveyed, was in
command of a large road-making party, the
workers (in irons) being guarded by a com-
pany of soldiers. Close by is a cell cut in
the rock where delinquents were punished
by confinement. And alongside you can see
a stone flag, or rock, with carved ridges on
it. This was the site of the triangles, and
the ridges in the rock were to prevent the
operator with the “cat” slipping in his work.
* # * *
The Chatham Islands, a few specks 50
hours’steam east of Lyttelton (M.L.), carry
a white population of less than 300, but 16
have rushed off with the bayonet
and the remainder have subscribed
£719 to various patriotic funds.
The islands are nowadays almost
lonely at nights, the crowds which
formerly thronged the theatres and
restaurants being seldom seen.
# ♦ t *
“Shipping Clerk”: The steamer City of
Florence, which came into violent collision
with a timber schooner off the Victorian
coast the other night, had only just left
Sydney with 8000 tons of cargo. Her rate
of freight was £4 a ton (freight bill,
£32,000). No wonder the Victorian Gov-
ernment is pressing the old training-ship
John Murray into the wheat-carrying busi-
ness. Enormous profits are being made by
some shipping people. For instance, some-
one or other is paying 130 s. a ton for carry-
ing motor-cars to Maoriland. Eighteen
months ago space was begging at 455. These
are the war profits that it is about time
our hard-bled country started to tap.
“Frank B.”: Another casual Australian.
He returned to the Front from hospital, and
was surprised to read his name on one of
the many little wooden crosses. “Some
bloke’s made an error,” he said, and boiled
his quart-pot with it.
* * * *
When the German Pacific fleet was prowl-
ing about that big ocean and every British
port thereon expected to hear the guns
knocking at its doors, the grey-beards of
Wellington (M.L.) recalled how their town
was shelled by a warship 40 years ago. The
Virago was the frigate that did the damage.
She was lying at
anchor in the harbor
and indulging in some
target practice with
live shell when some-
thing went wrong
under the gunlayer’s
cap. Three missiles
spluttered into the
northern end of the
village and made the
man in the pub think
the Russians had
arrived. One shell
dropped on the empty
par a d e-ground a t
Thorndon Barracks
and blew the air into
small pieces ; another
wrecked some toll-
ga£es. Number three
was the lucky shell.
It struck a cot-
tage which faced the
sea, entering below
the floor and whizzing
beneath till it encoun-
tered the back step.
This was composed of
a block of heart of
totara, and the impact
exploded the shell. The
back step flew over the
back fence and the
occupants of the cot-
tage hung on to the
pictures on the wall
and called for the
police. No serious harm was done, how-
ever, for the erratic gunlayer was grabbed
from the rear before he got the range of
Parliament House or managed to lob an ex-
plosive into the “biggest timber building in
the world.”
* * * *
It is more difficult to bag the Y.C. than
any other military decoration in the world.
Even during the first 15 months of the great-
est scrap in history only 108 of the bits
o’ bronze were handed out. Australia got
nine of them, India eight, and amoDg the
single infantry regiments of Bull’s army the
Lancashire Fusiliers are on top . with four.
Nine artillerymen have been ornamented,
several of them for deeds done after Mons.
Meanwhile the Kaiser weighs out his iron
rewards by the ton to anybody who looks
braver than a municipal dust cart.
* * * *-
This is the sort of letter that cheers us
up. A week ago The Bulletin told of a
bright young pressman who threw up his job
to do his bit, and is now back home with a
battered left hand, and an eye looking out
for another job. “What offers?” it asked;
and the first to come ran this way:—•
At ■ will be found three struggling black-
and-white artists and a pressman, doing - for them-
selves in Bohemian style. If the dailies have so
soon forgotten their duty, we four will boldly
attempt to supply the necessa-y tea and bread (per-
haps butter) until some paper which blazes with
patriotic leaders inviting boys to enlist wakes up
to its duty.
However, the hospitality of the four good
fellows need not be drawn on this time, two
billets being on offer.
* * * *
lan Hamilton tells how “the enemy, much
encouraged, turned their attention to the
Maoriland troops and the other battalions
holding the south-west of Ohunuk Bair.
Their constant attacks, urged by fanatical
persistence, were,” he adds, “met with stern
resolution .”
F. W. Boreham, Tasmania’s prolific book-
writing parson, is also among the prophets.
The other day he went for a holiday to
Wedge Bay, and while there wrote a news-
paper article in which he remarked, “If in
the course of my rambles I chance to fall
and break my leg the task of getting myself
found and then of arranging for a barge to
take me 40 miles over a rough sea to a
doctor will present difficulties of its own;
ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE.
“Haw! They tell me you come from dear
old London. I also was horn within
sound of Bowbclls. What is your name,
my brave soldier ?”
“Ogivitarest!”
“Ha, I understand! Of British birth but
foreign parentage .”
but who bothers his head about such morbid
possibilities?” This was just getting into
print when the parson had the very accident
he had described.
From a Western trench: —
We eat and dig and watch and shoot,
And rest just as we may ;
We know not when a spell will come
And work shall turn to play.
We carry on week in,’ week out,
Inured to shell and shot—■
And here and there to one or two
To-morrow cometh not.
When our men charge and charge once more,
And gaily chance their luck,
They get fair meed of credit for
Indomitable pluck ;
But when the Turks attack their foe,
Undaunted by resistance,
Their frequent charges merely show
Fanatical persistence.
All courage, so the Preacher saith,
Is centred in the soul;
Man fights according to his faith
To gain the promised goal.
But if he be an infidel,
Though at the clouds he gazes,
When he falls dead, he goes to —well,
Suppose we call it Blazes.
The Christian brave is ever wise,
The valiant Moslem mad ;
Ilis hope of gaining Paradise
Makes priestly critics sad.
The Christian quits this mortal strife
Assured of joy ecstatic;
/The Moslem’s dream of future life
Denotes the darned fanatic.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


AFTER THE COURTS HAD FINISHED WITH RICHARD DENIS MEAGHER.
AFTER RICHARD DENIS MEAGHER HAD FINISHED WITH THE LABOR PARTY.


THE JOURNEY TO TIPPERARY.
JOHN BULL: “Oh well I suppose I'd better go the way in that. it you say it will take it will take us there quieker.”


HYGEIA
Shaving
Stick.
x^x
In
Hvgeia
oil-foam
hard
bri>;les
grow soft
Martia's I‘ills are soM by \V. 11. Soul.
I*at:inson & Co. Indies recommend them,
li-- sure too sre: the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
KOBAN
KINS OF
ROWBOAT
MOTORS
Run* Excdlfttlr ft itbout Vi>rtti«a.
PRITCHARD BROTHERS LTD.
L —■* North Sydney. N SW.
(t
For COUCHS. COLDS. GATARRH. use
'HEAN S ESSENCE
Costs . *. Makes i pint. Saves 10
Good also for Toothache. Earache and
Stoanach Cramps and Diarrhoea when
J used without sweetening.
30—15
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Tasmanian West Coast lost one of
ts most consistent backers when F. O.
Henry passed out the other day at Strahan.
aged 70. Born north of the Tweed he tried
his luck in turn in Fiji (then just out of
the “long pig" stagel. Maoriland and Vic-
toria. and reached the Tasmanian West
Coast when Heemskirk tin boomed in the
'Bo’s. Since that he had store-kept at
Strahan. and in his time grub-staked most
of the old-time prospectors of the- Coast, in-
cluding the McDonoughs and Karlson and
other pioneers of the Iron Blow (Mt.
LyellL lie helped many a more or less
lame dog over a stile, and found it good busi-
ness. too, mostly.
G OVERNOR STANLEY oiving a glad eye
at the Races.
T. R. Moxham. M.L.A.. who died at
Parramatta last week, belonged to the aider-
man and shire-council school of politicians.
His early rise was associated with an
amiable disposition that had a smile for
the baby as well as for the voter; as an M.P.
he filled the J.P. list and made regular ap-
pearances on the lodge and friendly society
track —the path which has always been
smoothest for political aspirants in Parra-
matta. As a young man he swung a pick in
the stone quarry: after he got into the
cushioned seats of Parliament he swung the
party whip for the Opposition, in succession
to old John Nobbs. Outside Parliament in
later days he sold and swapped horses, and
the business was profitable enough to enable
him to put many of his family on the land.
Born in Parramatta, he lived in the district
ever after, and was oT when the Division bell
rang.
WAITING FOR HIS SHARE OF THE
BONUS.
Germans are giving consideration to the Australian
baby-bonus system, with a view to urging its adop-
tion.—News item.
Colin Templeton, appointed chairman of
the Board which is to manage the Mel-
bourne trams when they are taken over
from the eo. in June, ought to be a first-rate
man for the financial side of the job. Some-
thing over a quarter of a century ago
Templeton was the young clerk whom the
Bank of Australasia sent up to run a branch
at a new place called Broken Hill, and when
Broken Hill presently said it owned the
biggest silver mines in the world the young
man proved strong enough to keep the
billet. More than that, he took the eye of
W. R. Wilson and "the Queen-street crowd"
which bossed the Broken Hill situation, and
they lifted him to Melbourne and hired him
to be their ghost in a financial way of speak-
ing. -The old Queen-street crowd is dead or
scattered now: so of late years Templeton
has left off being a ghost and has taken to
sitting on innumerable Boards, ranging from
the great Mount I.yell t-> the little Lamson-
Paragon. which stitches up the stationery
that the young man at the ribbon counter
makes the bill on.
The stories that the Melbourne Bar tells
of the late Justice Holroyd are mostly to
the honor and glory of the benign old man.
One yarn is a reminder, too. of the ready
wit of the late Walter Coldham. barrister.
Cold ha in. arguing a point with the learned
Judge, said : "Oh. your Honor is quite wrong,
and I'll show you why—with great respect,
your Honor." "If I'm wrong put me right—
never mind the great respect." said Holroyd.
“But I can’t help it, your Honor,” replied
Coldham.
Josiah Symon is just upon 70 and there-
fore not likely to f iiow his old law-partner
as Chief Justice of S. Aus. George Murray, a
Puisne Judge. 53. unmarried, rich and very
learned, is most likely to take that chair, as
well as the Chancellorship of the University.
M hen Dr. Barlow died the vice-chancellor-
ship was coveted by Professor Stirling: but
the lot fell n Murray, a younger man with
newer ideas about Universities. For the
vacancy on the Council Bony then, of the
Advertiser, would almost give an eye.
Died at Buninyong t Vie. 1 the other day
Thomas John Thomas, the oldest inhabitant
thereabouts. "Johnny” Th .mas arrived at
Buninyong in 1850. before it was even a
village- With Tom Hiseock and >ne or two
others he was out looking r’.-r stray cattle
when they came upon the first gold found in
the district. This discovery was made about
the same time as Esmond picked np the first
specks at Creswick. But it was Hiseoek’s
party that gave Ballarat its start, and the
first rush of any sixe was : Buninyong.
N ne of the originals made very much,
though. Hisovk went into business, and
for a great number of years little J »hnny
Thomas was a foreman tanner. Then, about
20 years ago. the lure of the Inky Way
attracted him and he bought the Buninyong
Telegraph, which was one • f the first
country rags to be set up in Victoria. Sam
Goode ran it fi r years, but it thr.ndered
itself ur. and just before Johnny Th mas
assumed ownership the edd rag had
eon our of business f r s'me time. Under
Thomas's direct! -n and the editorship of
T .A Colebrook now Church of England
parson at Ballarat ■ the paper gained a
circulation: but the burst of speed did no:
last long, and soon the old printing
outfit, office and all, went up in smoke.
Dead at 81, somewhere in Wales, Edwin
Holt, whom English papers speak of with
reverence as “the father of public libraries ’
because he started one in a Yorkshire loft
04 years ago. But poor old Ptolemy 11.
started his in Alexandria more than 2000
years ago, and was one of the late-comers
even then.
The late Sammy Way knew something
about pretty well everybody who lived iu
S. Aus. 40 or 50 years ago, and had a
habit of producing reminiscences when a
youngster of the second or third genera-
tion came up to the Chancellor as a new
graduate at the annual University Commem.
A while ago a girl was up for her degree,
and for once in a way the old Chief said
nothing; whereupon tame a voice from the
back of the hall: “Here, didn’t she have
any grandmother?”
With the death of Frederick Saunders the
Melbourne Savage Club lost the man who
proposed its foundation and in its infancy
took on the job of secretary. Among the
members of the Melbourne Musical Society
(uow deceased and supplanted by the Musi-
cal Society of Victoria) there were a few
who were ready to acclaim the Saunders
suggestion when it came: and the die was
cast one evening over a glass of wine in a
well-known mid-city pub. In those days
the Savages had rooms in the Block Arcade;
but of late years they decided to get more
space for their money and took a couple
of floors in the less-exclusive Queen's Walk,
where they remain even unto this day. Old
man Saunders was British-born and for the
past quarter-century had been ’employed as
managing clerk by one of Melbourne's
ancient law firms.
Few people had thought much of what
turned out to be in the end C.J. Way's most
striking quality. Eighteen months ago, just
after the sudden death of his wife, cancer-
ous symptoms showed themselves in the
upper part of his left arm. His old friend
MacCormiek, of Sydney, took the limb off
high up at the shoulder blade. The patient
was 7s, yet in a month he was back in
Adelaide presiding at the great Science Con-
gress then just starring. For more than a
year he had peace; then it became evident
that the trouble was in the body, and latterly
its progress was marked. He knew he
was to die in a few weeks. Yet he kept to
his work as usual. In November he went
to the South-East to take his turn as circuit
Judge at Mount Gambier. He sat on the
Bench till the last day of term in Adelaide,
and said the usual encouraging things to
the new batch of barristers admitted then;
and he presided at the last meeting of the
University Council. He even made a speech
at the University commemoration, though
his physical weakness was then painfully
clear; and the day before he had journeyed
to Mount Lofty to preside at a Masonic
ceremony. In three weeks' time he was
dead.
COMMERCE IN THE CORAL SEA.
TOURIST : "You been in Sydney one time"
NIG : "Your. Old white-feller Mary give
me two Pound bayem Bibles longs my
village. I bmyem two feller pig. two
feller wife. More better that one."
Dropped oat the other day. at Hobart,
after a years' ran. Francis Butler, the
oldest surviving manlier of the nuinero s
and. in patches, wealthy Bntler clan. He
was only a year old when his father.
Gamaliel Bntler. brought him to Tasmania.
In the ’fifties and thereabouts he was an
architect acd designed some of Hobnre-
loading buildings of that period. Then he
S°t a Government job and was in succes-
sion Director of Public Works and Commis-
sioner of Taxes, but had been retired s 0
:mg that the general public had forgotten
ms existence.
John Whiting, dead in Victoria at about
SO, was a farmer there in later days, but in
his strenuous youth a mounted trooper in
South Aus., and at various other times in
Tasmania and Maoriland. He was a mem-
ber of the famous gold-escort between Bal-
larat and Adelaide, and first or last had
almost every bone in his body broken, as
well as his skull.
ALF. O'BRIEN, Sec. Musicians ' Union.
Died last week. Dr. Odillo Maher, who
would have been in anybody’s list of Syd-
ney's three leading eye experts any time the
last 20 years. A Sydney native he was son
of Timothy Maher, a member of the old-
time firm of Alexander Moore & Co., who
ran a furnishing warehouse in Pitt-street.
his partner being James Mullins, father of
the medical and legal Lane Mullinses. Next
door there was a rarpit till that "sport”
was shut down on. Dr. Maher, who was
57 years of age. was in the Kedfern railway
smash of 20 years ago. and suffered a bad
hurt to one of his hands.
Colonel John Hughes,
of Maoriland and Gal-
lipoli. mentioned in the
cables among the latest
bunch of C.M.G.’s.
can also write D.S.O.
after his name if he
likes, because he got
permission during the
trouble with Brother
Boer. He burst into
that disturbance as a
private in th j First
Contingent, and came
back a captain, after
going to Kimberley
with F renc-h and
everywhere else there
was anything doing.
When the present row
started he went off as
General Godiey's ad-
jutant and in the
trenches won another
step and a regiment,
and accumu lated
a severe attack of
rheumatism. He is a
happy little man is
John, who resolutely
refused to get any
older after he touched
four and twenty, and
he knows more girls
in the Loanly Isles
than any other citizen.
He started out to be a
lawyer, after five min
utes or so took up pol<>
instead, and most of
his later years have
passed as an .officer in
the Defence Depart-
ment. He has never
taken anything seri-
ously in life except
actual soldiering, and
, . . perhaps not even that;
which is why everyone calls him Jack.
“I DIDN'T RAISE MY SON TO BE A SOLDIER"!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Xo. but 1 heard the wail of a tortured ehild,
And the scream of a girl, dishonored and slain ;
And I called my son from his peaceful path.
Kissed him and armed him and sped him forth.
He may go to his death, 1 shall watch him go—-
But he will not die in vain.
When the cannons roared by the forts of Liege.
And the soul of Belgium rose, divine.
He heard the call, but I would rot heed.
For I did not choose that my flesh should bleed
For a cause that was not mine.
So I held him back with a selfish hand.
And turned my eyes from the fields of woe;
1 had but one son, my dear, brave lad —
lie was mine alow, he was all I had,
And I would r.ot let hint go.
So the children of Europe cried in vain.
Innocents caught in the flames of hate.
And the women of Europe, mother and bride,
On crosses of shame were crucified :
And 1 send my gon, as I should have doue,
But I send him over-late.
For I heard the shriek of a tortured child.
And my soul is sick with the crime;
So I called my son from his peaceful path.
Kissed him and armed him and sped him forth.
He may go to his death. I shall watch him go—
God semi he goes in time!
south xoshuua.
M. PEAKE.
v SAVAGE RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Keep use the Kaiser's throat,
Wad it with cotton:
Save it les: deeds cd rote
Here be forgotten.
Surgeon. yxwr fittest skill
(Science enhance kl)
Use or. the neck of Bill—
Scalpel and lancet.
Liter art! heart of him
" ork ary jest on.
®**l leave h:s collar rim
S. g ts:
of our needs has been
SantMif to haagr with—
•SVe* Bit}. t*;i tresvis are green,
Stmrthimp tm horny with.
X.S.*.
CURSE O' MOSES.


- -
AY'
mm-.
k> '* ,r k
/TsSUtfi#
i
25
rs
r"¥
n
The Menace of Germany
This is a world-wide war, and it is being waged for the purpose of a world power.
I his is not merely for the purpose of military power, although the means of achieving
world power are necessarily military in their nature. But the war is waged by Germany
for the purpose of achieving COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DOMINA-
I lON OF THE EARTH. This is the great purpose for which she has devoted her tremen-
dous, systematised energies for nearly half a century
UNLESS. . . .WE TAKE PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES NOW. . . .we shall after a
season of barren inactivity be overwhelmed by an inundation of Enemy Goods, swamping
not only our good intentions and the possibility of giving effect to them, but giving to those
who have vowed our destruction the fruits of our enterprise and industry*. . . .
Hon. W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister of Australia.
The Opportunity
is NOW!
For nearly half a century the civilised world has thought and dreamt of the menace
of Germany’s Military Might —a menace that has at last materialised in a world-
wide struggle for supremacy.
To-day, with our National consciousness almost wholly preoccupied with the waging
of war, we need to lift our heads above the din and turmoil of the conflict to realise
clearly the issues that are at stake.
Only so shall we avoid the danger of a peace which is no peace at all —because it
does not remove the real causes of the war.
German Militarism, beaten and even humiliated, will be no bar to the long-planned
German war on our Commerce and Industry.
Victory —even a decisive Victory - will be fruitless unless it leads to a fundamental
change in our National business policy, and the golden opportunity is NOW.
Germany Must Be
Beaten N OW, or
She Never Will.
Clearly, unmistakably we realise the National need for economic independence . . .
our ignorance and weakness of the past, in the needless barter for German goods.
But to-day, conscious and wide-awake to the menace of enemy goods, we know our
weakness —and our strength.
We CAN Beat
Germany Now
IF WE WILL.
For the sake of our Empire’s future we must bar all Enemy Goods, and in the
preference for things all British supply our National needs.
Australia and the work of Australians demand preference first of all, and its practice
will banish the menace that threatens after the war.
First in the Field and
Foremost Ever Since
Back of our claim to be Pioneer Distributors of Austiahan
Goods is nearly Haifa century's trading as proof.
P'irst in the Field to urge the merit of Australian-made
Goods, consistent in our recommendation of Home Manu-
factures as against Foreign Importations, we stand to-day
relatively in the same foremost position as we did 50 years
aero . . \ Pioneer Distributors of Australian-made Goods.
Half a century’s Leadership in the Men’s Outfitting Field
has carried the conviction to thousands ot Australians in
favor of Australian Goods.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO YOU ?
484 to 490 Oeorge
Street, SYDNEY.
a
mu in i lllil
PiohccrDistrihutorj Goods
3 to 17 Royal
Arcade, SYDNEY.
\
i *
"X v;
J&
U,
'\\\i
-M
□ ?£
¥
m?
tT •;
VS'
&
35
~N^
w
n


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
New Zealand Insurance Company Limited
PREMIER COLONIAL COMPANY.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Sickness, Workmen's Compensation and General
insurance. 79-8 J PITT STREET( SY DNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Every penny that we put into our own
War Loan is a penny less for harassed
Britain to worry over. Considering what
Britain has lent us in peace, we ought to
be in a position to lend her large sums in
war. She doesn’t ask that. She merely
asks that we shall try to finance our own
share in the great trouble. So far we have
not done more than about one-fifth of it.
Applications close on January 31, and every
patriot with money in his purse ought to be
heard from by then.
The N.S.W. Savings Bank will do a bit
for its customers and the War Loan at the
same time. Any customer of the bank who
may buy war stock (he can buy as little as
£lO worth) can have the receipt taken care
of by the bank, which will then, as
soon as the interest comes due, credit it to
the depositor, whereupon of course it
instantly starts to earn its little bit of inter-
est. This will not only give safe custody
for the document, but will save the customer
all expense and trouble of collecting interest,
and give him the immediate benefit of the
41 p.c. p.a. as it falls due.
* * * *
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :
Ex- Writ- Added
Sept., Income. Claims, penses. ten Off. Funds.
1903.. £634,071 £303,836 £112,270 £217,965
1904.. 717,062 328,920 129,591 258,551
1905.. 762,906 361,053 138,370 £963 262,520
1906.. 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907.. 898,253 374,809 157,512 1993 363,939
1908.. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909.. 1,043,801 449,957 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176,344 4744 502,464
1912.. 1,284,364 520,249 174,664 2016 587,435
1913.. 1,395.866 511,045 175,031 709,790
1914.. 1,479,109 591,062 177,491 710,556
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 692,440
The life offices of Australia have woke up
surprisingly during the last few years.
There is no doubt more than one reason,
but the principal seems to be that the socie-
ties were until recently still chiefly governed
by the old gentlemen who in their more vigor-
ous youth had seen the infants through their
teething. Insurance was a very different
thing 50 years ago from what: jt is to-day.
There was a strong idea that" TCwas a more
or less philanthropic, business; so it was
actually provided at first that if a society
found out anything bad about a policy-holder
—that he drank, for instance —it might
cancel its contract with him. And to some
extent this idea that a life office is a semi-
philanthropic institution still prevails;
wherefore there are people who profess to
be horrified at every proposal to tax these
big co-operative finance and investment con-
cerns. The new generation of insurance
men don’t hang on to many of the old ideas.
They know that theirs are hard business
propositions, and they work on exactly the
same lines in selling insurance as they would
if they were selling sheep’s trotters. The
foregoing remarks apply as much to the
National Mutual as to any of them. That
its income should have taken 40 years to
reach a million and in the next seven should
have reached a million and a half, is suffi-
cient proof that some very extraordinary in-
fluences have been at work lately.
In some respects, certainly, the National
Mutual never was so bound by general rule
as some others; and this habit of using its
brains —a process almost entirely unknown in
some life offices up to a few j r ears ago—has
been of immense service in meeting new
situations. During the last two years, for
instance, one might reasonably have ex-
pected a bad slump in insurance figures.
But the National Mutual has contrived to
keep the increase in income going at the
previous rate. Certainly some of this new
premium income may carry more than the
average risk. Some of it is on what are
known as probate policies. Between them
the Commonwealth and the State take up to
about 30 p.c. of the little bit left by a
deceased person. The scale, of course, is
graduated, but it runs up to that. This tax
lias to be paid in money. Even W. Hol-
man hasn’t yet reached the stage at which
he will accept a quarter-share in an elephant
or a team of bullocks or a stock of bonnets.
It might easily happen that when the money
was needed the market for elephants, bul-
locks or bonnets would be dull, and a heavy
loss would be made on the forced sale. The
probate policy is therefore offered as the
surest way of making the money available
without disturbing the estate. And natu-
rally, since it only very seriously affects the
rich, and since the rich are usually past
middle-age. the premiums are heavy. In
many cases —nrobably most cases —the policy-
holder of this class isn’t expected to live
more than 10 or 15 years. These policies
have no doubt very materially increased the
new business of the year. In 1912 the
average premium per new policy issued was
under £9 12s. For the past year it was
£lO os. Gd. On the whole, then, though the
year’s new business and income figures are
so excellent, it is doubtful whether the busi-
ness is as good as usual. The policies
issued to men proceeding to the Front,
though no doubt usually small, certainly
carry abnormal risks; and if they do not
become claims a good many of them will
lapse. And a few big policies, issued to rich
elderly men, can hardly be of the same value
as a large number of .small policies issued to
young men for an equal aggregate amount.
The interest earnings are as usual excel-
lent—only they are more excellent than
usual -
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £4 13 2 p.c. I 1914 .. £4 16 8 p.c.
1910 .. 4 12 3 „ I 1915 .. 4 17 2 „
Unless there are big losses of principal, this
is going to make for excellent bonuses
presently. The assumed rate of interest is
probably 3£ p.c., and money earned in excess
of that forms one of the three main sources
from which bonuses are derived. The
society may, however, have to stand the
racket of losses through a slump in landed
securities. While other societies have been
going in more and more for public securi-
ties, this one has specialised in mortgages.
The assets are now as follow’s :
1900. 1910. 1914. 1915.
Public securities 3.4 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 6.9 p.c. 8.9 p.c.
Mortgages . . 56.5 ~ 55.1 ~ 59.3 ~ 58.7 „
Foreclosures . . 4.4 ~ 1.3 „ 0.6 ~ 0.5 „
Freeholds . . 12.7 „ 12.8 „ 9.9 „ 9.2 „
Loans on policies 14.3 ~ 9.8 ~ 9.4 ~ 9.4 „
Other assets .. 14.7 „ 15.9 „ 13.9 „ 13.3 „
Losses are no more inevitable in connection
with mortgage loans than with investments
in public securities. It is all a question
of management. But the risk is certainly
larger.
Fine progress has been made, too, in con-
nection with the expense rate: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 .. £lB 2 9 p.c. 1911 .. £l4 14 4 p.c.
1907 .. 17 10 8 „ 1912 .. 13 11 11 „
1908 .. 16 14 6 „ 1913 .. 12 10 9 „
1909 . . 15 1 1 „ 1914 . . 12 0 0,,
1910 . . 15 0 3 „ 1915 . . 10 13 0 „
The real improvement, though, isn’t what
those figures might suggest. For instance,
the bigger the accumulation of funds the
larger the income from interest, and the
expense of earning interest isn’t very oppres-
sive. Still whatever way you look at it
things have improved very greatly in con-
nection with the National Mutual. The
Bulletin’s arbitrary method is to allow 7
7 p.c. for old (renewal) business and 3 p.c.
for single-premium business, and set the
balance of the cost against new business. On
that basis we get the following result: —
Exes. New
Chargeable Business
New to New Expense
Sept., Business. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 .. 114,195 119,426 104.6,,
1914 .. 121,015 112,577 93.2 „
1915 . . 118,357 97,229 82.1 „
It isn’t a complete method, because it dis-
regards the expense of the investment side
of the business; but it is near enough to
show 7 that the society finds it a much easier
job to rope up policy-holders than it did 15
years ago.
Bonuses are, as mentioned above, drawn
from three chief sources — i 1) surplus of
interest earnings over those assumed when
the premium tables were drawn up; (2)
a saving in exoenses compared with what
were allowed for when the tables were
drawn up; (3) the policy-holders paying in
more premiums than had been reckoned on
through their living longer. This office has
been to some extent experimenting on the last-
mentioned point. Insurance offices have
thought to protect themselves against people
dying too soon by .having , an elaborate sys-
tem of medical inspection and report. But
the National Mutual is largely cutting the
doctor out. In most other offices 12 p.c. or
more of the new premium income goes in
medical exes. In this case:—
Proportion of Medical Exes, to New Premiums.
New Medical
Premiums. Exes.
1903 .. £68,456 £7503 10.9 p.c.
1911 . . 116.168 7844 6.7 „
1912 .. 120,518 7265 6.0 „
1913 .. 122.897 6737 5.4 „
1914 .. 121,015 6241 5.1 „
1915 . . 118,357 5091 4.3 „
The actuary reported last year:—
The practice whieli was adopted 12 years ago, and
has now had a fair trial, of accepting without medi-
cal examination proposals for assurance of small
amounts and for limited terms, has been completely
successful. The ratio of actual to expected claims
under proposals so accepted has throughout not ex-
ceeded the ratio of the total business.
The society not merely saves expense, but
unquestionably attracts scores of people who
have a horror of a doctor’s examination,
simply because they have been so beastly
healthy that they have not had to meet a
doctor. But medical examination provides
a certain safeguard against the results of
lax office management; lienee the present
system under worse management would pro-
bably be costly.
The Agricultural Bank of Queens-
land :
Profit Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
June, Interest. . to State. Reserves. Deficit.
1903.. £289 3 p.c. = £47 £336
1904.. 501 3 „ „ 417 £B4 252
1905. . 826 3 „ „ 773 53 199
Reserves.
1906.. 2,476 3 „„ 2,031 445 246
1907.. 4,212 3 „ „ 3,161 1051 1,297
1908.. 4.771 3 „„ 3.445 1326 2,623
1909.. 5,257 3 „ „ 3,851 1406 4,029
1910.. 6,253 3 „„ 4.278 1975 6,004
1911.. 7,694 3 „ „ 5,147 2547 8,551
1912.. 10.236 3 „„ 6.918 3318 11.869
1913.. 16.305 4 „ ~ 12.950 3355 15 224
1914.. 24,368 4 „ ~21.386 2982 18 900
1915.. 33,300 4 „ ~28,852 4448 22,654
As this paper has previously warned the
Government there is going to be bad trouble
here presently; and w r hen it happens the
management w 7 on’t he chiefly responsible.
This year the managing director puts things
as plainly as The Bulletin has tried to put
them in past years.:— ;
The interest paid to the Treasury during the year
was £28,851, the Treasury still charging the Bank
4 p.c., thus leaving the Bank to cany oni with a
margin of only X p.c No provismn can be made^to
losses that are sure to occur, as advances a
on such liberal terms and on securities that are t>y
no means gilt-edged.
During the past year no less than P r ®
perties were taken over -mostly they ha '
abandoned —and though the Bank cleaml
out what it could it still has 32 in hand.
Further “the trustees view with concern the
steady spread of pear on their securities in
many districts.” Had the bulx of the
advances been made years ago so that by
this time a substantial sum would have been
paid off them, there wouldn t be so much
cause for alarm. But two-thirds of the
advances have been made during the last
three years. This table shows that and some
other figures: —
Advances Advances Re- Ex P e "f 6S
Out- paid dur- Working p.c. ol
standing. ing Year. Expenses. Advances
1903.. £6,253 £557 £8 18 i
1904.. 20,370 £650 550 2 14 0
1905.. 38,417 311 687 } 15
1906.. 94,268 3,229 1043 } 9 ° 9
1907.. 112,216 12,908 1243 } 2 "
1908.. 119,344 16,<16 1199 } J
1909.. 136,947 16,184 1388 1 ® "
1910.. 163,641 21,551 1015 18 6
1911.. 206,998 27,793 1814 17 6
1912.. 305,653 24,804 2599 17 0
1913.. 470,796 27,808 3704
1914.. 636,790 61,900 4192 13 -
1915. . 880,204 52,819 4693 10 8
And the securities are for the greater part
those which private concerns would look at
with extreme caution. In all the circum-
stances a very substantial reserve ought to
exist. This can only be provided by in-
creasing the margin between interest paid
and interest earned. That can be done in
three wavs: (1) By reducing the rate paid
to the Government for money. This for
practical purposes ought to be ruled out.
The Bank is paying too little, as it is. (2)
Increasing the rate. of interest payable by
customers. Considering the security offered,
the present rate is too low. (3) Reducing
the expenses. These can’t be cut much with-
out reducing efficiency: and as the Bank
hasn’t its own inspection staff, and must
rely for its valuations upon men whom it
hasn’t selected, and who, for all it knows,
are blissfully ignorant of values, the effici-
ency is already poor.
* * * *
The Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance Soci-
ety (Ltd.) :
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept,, Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1903 .. £73,983 £19,585 £28,263 £26,135 £310,583
1904 .. 79,779 18,302 29,285 32,192 342,775
1905 . . 89,738 18,894 36,071 34,773 377,548
1906 . . 98,666 21,02 G 38.925 38,715 416,263
1907 .. 108.447 21,451 39,616 47,380 463,643
1908 .. 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 519,806
1909 . . 160,946 44,733 49,412 66,801 586,607
1910 . . 177,578 40,810 53,658 83,110 669,717
1911 .. 189,794 31,236 52,071 106.487 776,204
1912 .. 203,467 32,286 63,938 107,243 883,447
1913 . . 224,252 33,752 75,588 114,912 998,359
1914 .. 242,979 36,281 71,858 134,840 1,133,199
1915 . . 269,696 37,747 95,302 136,647 1,269,846
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1903 .. £69,547 £46,230 £8,925 £14,392 £49,063
1904 .. 82,742 48,595 13,365 20,782 69,845
1905 .. 103,499 54,761 14,213 34,525 104,370
1906 .. 118,433 58,833 16,444 43,156 147,526
1907 .. 124,703 52,289 16,129 56,285 203,811
1908 .. 134,723 64,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909 .. 145,757 64,954 34,189 46,614 298,426
1910'.. 155,333 59,359 40,129 55,845 354,271
1911 .. 170,358 61,002 50,537 58,819 413,090
1912 .. 194,650 71,308 56,505 66,837 479.927
1013 .. 234,465 84.420 104,245 45,800 525,727
Taken over from Accident Dept... 338 526.065
1914 .. 273,216 105,227 104,846 63,143 589,208
1915 .. 306,949 111,375 89,567 106,007 695,215
The society’s very rapid progress is main-
tained, in spite of adverse circumstances.
Certainly all the circumstances have nut
been adverse; for persons who have been
aware that they may presently be called
upon for military service have no doubt
dropped in and asked for a bit more insur-
ance. But the war, which may have thus
given a fillip to the recruiting of policy-
holders,. has also added pretty seriously to
the claims, especially in the Ordinary de-
partment. Payments during the year “in-
clude 130 .claims directly resulting from the
death of members at the Front.” They are
probably for small amounts, as a rule; on
the other hand, the policies having been held
by young men, the society will have received
against them little in the way of eitler pre-
miums or interest. This is going to affect
for a time the surplus available for distri-
bution in bonuses.
But: the loss in this way is more or less
counterbalanced by the gain in interest earn-
ings. Here are figures showing recent re-
sults calculated on average funds: —
190 S ..£4 9 7 p.c. I 1912 .. £4 11 0 p.c.
1909 .. 4 10 3 „ [ 1913 .. 4 n c
1910 .. 410 6 „ I 1914 .. 412 6 ’
1911 .. 4 10 9 „ | 1915 .. 413 o”
But_ that difference of Is. (id. in favor of
Uno as against 1913 hardly represents the
whole improvement. Two years ago the free-
holds were valued at £104,441. Then the
co. bought the big building in which the
tobacco people used to be housed in Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney, and that purchase and
the subsequent improvements have run the
Property item up to £334,510. During the
past year over £lOO.OOO must have been here
unproductive pending completion of the
remodelling of the block. Easily the war
should add half a crown per cent, to the
earnings of the co.. for. sav. seven years
1 resent funds just exceed £2.000.000 '• and
no-Ao 0U that a 2s- od. p.c. means
v 2 ’- 00 . " TT Tv £1 ( -’ OO in seven years, and
it isn t likely that the dear-monev effects of
the war will pass away earlier. This then
is a set-off against the demand which the
war will make m respect to claims; and the
same applies to other insurance concerns.
Their bonuses will consequently be less cut
into than might be expected. * CIU
The past five years show an excellent re-
duction in the expense rate, though the
figures are not down yet to where they
should be :— ■
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial.
1905 .. £2l 1 1 p.c. £52 18 2 p.c.
1910 .. 22 19 7 „ 38 4 4 „
1911 .. 16 9 2 „ 35 16 2 „
1912 . . 15 17 4 „ 36 12 8 „
1913 .. 15 1 0 „ 36 0 1,,
1914 .. 14 18 8 „ 38 10 3 „
1915 . . 13 911 „ 36 5 8 „
But you can’t tell much from those figures
unless you know how much new business
was done ; for that is where the money goes.
Put it this way. Suppose the new business
cost 75 p.c. (that is to say, three-quartefs
of the' first-year premiums), then the old
business in the Ordinary Department has
cost the following: 10 years ago, £9 18s. p.c.
of the premiums; last year, £3 3s. p.c. of the
premiums. The fact that the old (renewal)
business must actually have cost more than
£3 3s. p.c. last year indicates that the exes,
chargeable to new 7 business must have been
less than 75 p.c., which would be a remark-
ably good showing, especially as the new
policies average only about £llO each.
The Industrial Department’s expense
figures are not racing downhill the same way.
The chances are the Ordinary figures are
benefiting at the expense of the Industrial;
in other words, the Ordinary gets the benefit
of the missionarying for which the Indus-
trial pays. The Bulletin is not complain-
ing. When the Industrial organisation has
chased down a customer, and got him into
the saving-up habit, the best thing that can
happen to him is a transfer to the Ordinary,
where he can get about 50 p.c. more insur-
ance for the same money. The Ordinary
then gains by getting a new policy-holder at
a small cost in commission; the Industrial
suffers by losing one of the customers whose
premiums cost least to collect. And if that
makes the one expense rate look good and
keeps the other pretty bad, it at least can
be said that the right thing has been done by
the insurer.
The most important question to ask about
a life insurance office is: Is it sound? That
is much more important than its bonuses,
especially if you don’t collect your bonuses
in cash, and very few Australians do that.
The actuary estimates that the society
ought to have £1,886.242 on hand towards
paying its ripening liabilities. It actually
has £1,965,060. Therefore the actuary says
the surplus may be distributed —in cash or
paid-up additions to policies. We have to
take the actuary’s sworn word for it that he
has valued the policy liabilities right—that
the results are “correct and safe and equit-
able for all the members interested.” The
Ordinary surplus, by the way, for last year
was £24.877. phis £15,444 brought in from
the previous year; and £29,150 is distributed
- 14.3 p.c. of the premiums. Then, taking
the actuary’s word for it that the liabilities
are thus fully provided for by the insur-
ance fund, one next has to find how that
fund is invested : Government and municipal
securities. 35 p.c.; loans (mostly mort-
gages), 43 p.c.; properties, 16 p.c.; cash
and sundries, 6 p.c. The loans and proper-
ties may be a thorough good investment.
Whether a society can escape losses if it
goes in largely for such assets depends en-
tirely on management. Losses may of course
be made in any investment; but with - a
terminable public security you know that
some day at any rate you will get par; but
there is no such assurance in connection
with a mortgage or real property investment.
And because a man has to put his trust in
the management not only of to-day but
maybe of 30 years hence, that office is to be
preferred, other things being equal, whose
policy it is to steadily increase its holding
of public securities.
* * * *
Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., formerly
Australian Kodak, Ltd., which began as from
June. 1908, with a small deficit representing
preliminary expenses:—
June, Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
1908.. __ £478
Mar., Reserves.
1909. . £22,038 9 p.c. =£ 11,250 £596 £9,714
Sept.,
1909.. 12.984 10 „„ 7.500 358 14,840
1910.. 25,273 10 „„ 15,000 3869 21,244
1911.. 24,346 10 „ 15.000 3067 27,523
1912.. 36.227 121 „ „ 18,750 5219 39,781
1913.. 36,890 124,,,, 18,750 5238 52,683
1914.. 40.610 124 „ „ 18,750 6240 68,333
Transferred to capital, £30,000 .. 38,333
1915.. 54,228 15 p.c. = 26,250 5852 60,459
The rate of dividend shown in the last line
is only approximate. As a matter of fact,
£24.750 has been paid during the past year,
which the directors say, is “at the rate of
124 p.c. p.a. on the average of the paid up
capital,” though to save his life the present
writer couldn’t tell you how it is 124 p.c.
£24.750 is 12-4 p.c. on £l9B 000. whereas
the capital 12 months ago was £150.000 and
now is £lBO.OOO. Anyhow, everything in
the garden is lovely. Call the dividend what
you like it must still be something handsome,
equal to about 174 p.c. on the capital actu-
ally paid : and then, after writing assets
down hard, there remains about 124 p.c. on
the present capital to put to reserves. _ In
other words, the net profit amounted to just
on 334 p.c. of the capital as it stood at the
beginning of the year; and no new capital
has been got in since. In any circumstances
that would be an astonishingly good result:
but it is better than that when the quality
of the assets is taken into account. The
entire liabilities are £29,122; and the book
debts are slightly in excess of that total.
Assuming that the book debts cancel the
liabilities, there are left to represent the
capital and reserves the following assets:—
Freeholds and buildings .. £89,132
Stocks (merchandise) .. .. 89,000
Cash .. .. .. .. 24,725
Plant, etc 26.301
Shares in other cos. .. .. 12,530
Total .. £241,688
Certainly on a forced sale the plant might
have to be written down; but other values
are well looked after. 2 p.c. being annual!.'


The most difficult drives in most of the largo
mines throughout Australia are equipped with
.‘Chromol ’ belting. “Chromol” has replaced many
ot the composition beltings which were formerly
used. It is made from special mineral-tanned leather,
and has great heat- and damp-resisting qualities,
which are essential for mining work. You can buy
it direct from the sole manufacturers, J. C. Ludowici
& Son Ltd., 117 York Street, Sydney ; or inter-State
agents, viz.: Geo. Russell P’t’y Ltd.; Flinders Street,
Melbourne; Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Bris-
bane ; John Mclvell, Timpson Street, Adelaide;
Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth; Geo.
Dempster, Broken Hill. —Advt.
ALUMINOFERRIC is used by the Sydney Water
Board, New South Wales Public Water Supply Depart-
ment, and many country Water Boards and graziers
for precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, cattle dams, etc. It is simply thrown
into the reservoir in the form of a solid cake, or
dissolved and added as a liquid. In three hours’
time the most discolored water will be as clear as
crystal. One pound will clear over 2000 gallons of
water. It is exceedingly cheap and quite harmless.
Sole agents: William Adams & Company Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth —Advt
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
Ine . Ilardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of ” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
sole representatives for them in the Commonwealth,
and will be glad to forward particulars.— Advt. [1
Extract from The Citizen, London, 15th Septem-
ber 1915: “Colonial Mutual Life Office. —It is a
distinct pleasure to receive and review the annual
report and actuarial investigation of this excellentlv-
managed, world-wide mutual life office. Apart from
the purely technical aspect of its operations, there is
the admirable work which it is doing in knitting
together the English-speaking peoples in various
parts of the great British Empire. The Society is
mutual m the purest sense of the word, and" the
manifest advantages of life assurance upon the
mutual principle are admirably portrayed in its
records. The Society has no shareholders, and all its
profits are divided amongst its members.”— Advt. [1
PIONEER MOOD PIPE TANKS for water, wine
vinegar, acids, oil, cyanide or mine liquors are
constructed in all sizes from 500 to 100,000 gallons.
They are easily despatched, being carried in sections
and erected on arrival. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to Federal
't fcHsr* 51 York s,r " 1 ' ssim *
* * * *
The Australian Provincial Assurance Asso-
™ 1 I I °j' f iTI) - I 1 *8 beyond question that the
amount ot new business—upwards of £430.000 —•
secured by the Australian Provincial Assurance
Association for its third year of existence, a year
clouded by war and drought, is a record to be proud
„’ no T. certainly a good deal more than we
' -t 0 see ‘ •• - Any young insurance company
holding its own, to use a well-understood collo-
quial expression, during this time of stress and
strain has much to be thankful for ; but to be able
to show marked advance and undoubted progress at
such a time is a matter for satisfaction and pride.
If there had been no war at all and no drought at
all this third report of the A.P.A., just as it is
woidd have been deserving of high commendation!
but that such progress has been made in spite of
these serious drawbacks is nothing short of astonish-
1S fair to add that this is not the
opinion of critics only, but also of some of the com-
pany s rivals, both older and younger. The A.P A.’s
report deals with comparisons'from first to last'
Expenditure is faithfully given, and there is no more
interesting part than that showing expenditure actu-
«ie third year than for the
econd, notwithstanding the doubling - of renewal pre-
miums and an increase of more than £lOO,OOO in the
new business A very few years of such progress as
has been hitherto shown will place the Association in
a strong position. .From all we hear and know the
business being done is of first-class quality ”
Krtract from the Review, an Australian journal of
banking, insurance and finance.- —Advt.
*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 C'astlereagh Street'
Sydney.— Advt.
* *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
finders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock!
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
h™ f i •" •i P a l>eS ’f l i eSSl ' s ' Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
th7l^w ed ’ 0f , F ° ots< : ra y, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
wm.r„’ f P,le S i hoes - Ridges and Contractors’ Iron
of every description.—Advt.
* * #
Tiie Electrolytic Repining and Smelting Com-
pany of Australia, Limited.— By mutual* consent
Mr. Fiancis 11. Snow has retired from the above com-
pany, and the Ore Purchase Department at Bridge St
Sydney, has been closed. Sellers of ore should now com-
municate direct with the Works. Port Kembla — Advt.
r-* * *
~,'P A U * TRALIAN Machinery Co. Ltd., of 123-195
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, specialists in road-build-
mg and shire and municipal machinery, have secured
an order for a complete quarry and haulage plant at
a cost of several thousand pounds, from the Ipswich
City Council, Ipswich (Q.). This plant will be the
most up-to-date in Queensland, the latest method
being adopted for haulage, viz., the “Foden” Patent
Steam Motor Waggon.— Advt.
Mine managers, when requiring new .Steam
Boilers, are invited fo communicate with Babdoek
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writ!
us for Inventors Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory ■ Glassware and Apparatus \ssa\
BaWe teS ’ w ho m Sup Pr lies ’ Ainsworth’s & Oertling'':
Balances Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, ai
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H B
Silberberg & Co Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney :
and 443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
perpetual trustee
COMPANY (Limited)
2 ' 4& 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
absolute security
and EFFICIENT
MANAGEMENT
can best be obtained by the
appointment of this Company as
Trustee, Executor or
Administrator, etc.
LOW CHARGES.
BOOKLET on APPLICATION.
B coPL.ijio Lethbridge, Manager.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £9,300,000
Annual Income Exceeds ... £1,400,000
The Company is distinguished for
FINANCIAL STRENGTH
and
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital ... ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up 82,500
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Royal Bank of Queensland,
Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock)
545,760 0 0
155,351 0 0
81,500 0 0
£782,011 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man.: Edwd D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews
London Office: 31 Budfe Row, Cannrn Street. London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. ’ E C
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
written off even city buildings—a right
thing to do, but not generally done. There
may be a trifle of goodwill in the “Shares in
other cos., £12,530,” nearly all Eastman
Kodaks; but even so, similar shares have
been sold hitherto at a premium. Apart
from that there is no water anywhere.
* * * . «
“The Secretary of Amalgamated Zinc (De
Bavay’s), Ltd., reports the sale of 20,000
tons of zinc concentrates at a satisfactory
price for shipment to Japan. Delivery wiil
be spread over 10 months from January 1,
1916.” So our energetic little friend in the
North, seeing his chance, is jumping into
that business, too. Meantime Australia-
well. Australia is still busy listening to
Hughes’s fierce threats to “cut out the Ger-
man cancer.” Apparently for the benefit
not of Australia but of Japan.
* * * *
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) is at work again
with one furnace, and copper is £5O a ton over
the price at which the present management
reckoned the mines could be made to pay
back a percentage of the debenture debt and
the Government loan. Certainly if the
mine can’t make a do of it now it never will
But it is to be hoped the
instead of pocketing the whole of the profits
as made, will see their way clear to ear-
mark a portion for prospecting the proper-
ties. In this respect absolutely nothing
has been done as far as new ground is con-
cerned, and Heaven knows the co. holds
enough of it! The co. is introducing the
system of fathom contract in lieu of the
old tonnage contract, and the miner will
know every fortnight the amount he has
earned. If the pay envelope isn’t bulky
enough he can look round for something
else. Considering the rivalry between the
cos. in the district for the best men. Bill is
on a pretty good wicket.
* * *
B. H. Junction North has found a buyer
for 20,000 tons of zinc concentrates, delivery
to commence in May and extend into next
year. It is said to be a similar contract to
that fixed up between the Amalgamated
Zinc and Japanese ore buyers. The Chinese
were, so history says, the first to treat zinc
ore, so it isn’t surprising to find the Japs
making a bid. for some of the cheapest zinc
concentrates in the world. Australia isn’t
to be congratulated on trade of this kind. The
jam that we haven t got the necessary
cheap labor won’t wash. The U.B.A. are by
no means a cheap-labor country, yet thej r
have collared the zinc trade. The whole truth
is we don’t like the laborious job.
* * * *
’ Last f r° m Bodangora, old Mitchell’s
Creek (N.S.W.), was £1977 from 546 tons,
\yith tailings containing 11s. 6d. by assay.
Average, £3 12s. 6d. per ton, compared Avith
±.t los. dd. from the previous crushing. The
crusnings to date have been principally from
development work, the policy being to keep
this 12 months ahead of the mill. But
note that each successive return shows a
decrease in value. The shrinkage may
appear slight, but it is dangerous. The mine
] s costly to work. The lode is verv flat,
and handling the ore between level and level
involves extra labor; it is also very narrow
and frosted on to the walls. To return a
Reasonable profit on capital recovery must
lie kept near the ounce mark. With'further
equipment for sliming and cyaniding the
h» mgs direct. some profit will be made,
out this will mean considerable extra
expenditure. The mine is developing well in
the deeper levels hnd is ably managed,
these conditions will ultimately lead to divi-
' "J 1 } they are not as near as some
over-confident people think.
* * * *
0l ? HiU End (N.S.W.) produced
iD ,000 worth of gold last year. Most of it
came from the Amalgamated and Hawkins
fn.Arii e o?i d ‘ , rhe .latter crushed 3730 tons
■ °t which the directors handed
a threepenny (£1000), which is equal
,i- , and there s a prospect of another
• lb ution this j-ear. This claim should
increase its output now that the workings
j£.Tf | )PP T connected with the old Never
vlf.-i !■’ wbl , eh 1S bein s timbered. Better
entdatmn will also enable the manager to
lve on a new reef located last year.
A** * *
nr.^n! o?d A m ! e mine with a very bad pros-
at Mr w T? Sh ij n<^Tv?« nnedy s *O-acre lease
reen^ < N - S -W.>. now asking for
the Lord Kitchener Gold
mines Ltd. Owners have worked the show
reLvl years with an eight-head mill for a
from Lxlwft. over the plates and loz.
i L yani l e; . Wlth an alleged lOdwt. left
‘Soon , Capital is £25,000 in 10s. shares;
to vendor with £5OOO cash; 22,000
01 on f ed ’ 2s ‘ 6d - on application and 2s.
HJ allotment; 6000 are reserved. The co!
a ‘ to registration as soon as 10.000
?endoi f lbe r d - ° f * he f2r)oo thus received
IndasLrif lr£ et £2oo ° (of their £5000) ;
charts f he £i>o ° remaining the co. bears “all
, registration, so li e itors’ fees,
and thp g t' etc .' 11 Stamp duty must be paid,
one qnfi C °'* WI have after registration about
e and ninepence.
the Vill^ 1 ” This is stressed in
5/' ‘ “ give
ITtC SS
be\n ttr l B - oth mines ma - v
but there the^ 67 S S^ eek blg dyke s y stem >
uuc mere the connection ends. Like the
Morning Star, Wood’s Point, the Wallabv
has been tried before. The last co to h*v*
scooted lfc nj 100 ft ’ PUt UP a batter y and
Re . ason > poor stone and heavv
basin 700 fa ei \ ° f COUrse with a
JOft ‘ w i de t 0 explore, there must be
si?k to" 1 tor e ° M - ljut the **>■» is to
iw u 11 e P rom °ters think rightly that
they have as good a chance to hit gold at
Si? 88 ? e Mornin S Star. Hence the cal!
to the punters to make the game.
* * *
Ballarat East doesn’t want to be snuffed
than d T Bendigo by Justice
male in Tf g< i S a . ward ’ so a move is being
made to start piece-work on the Cornish
plan once followed at Wallaroo and Moont a h
ihe mine cap’n is to run his eye over a
the 6 ’ °" fc a . block of ground and assess
niL P r ce . 0f dMvl , ng ’ but it will only be by
plugging m that the miner will top the mini-
mum of the award. If he doesn’t he will get
the assessed value of his footage. The
worker takes to. this move as willingly as a
lat commits suicide, but it has to be con-
tact work or shut-down for dozens of
claims. Sorting out is already under way
on the plea that if 15 bob is to be paid only
• , ; mh workers will be kept on, and alto-
gether there are signs that an unholy row
may knock mining in Victoria still ‘flatter
before long.
* * * *
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.) toiled for
-U years before paying a div., but the
hPhtna in St dlst f lbut «b was only 12 months
m. ind ,t be drs t- Both were sixpennies.
Ihe. co s operations for the past year show
a ciedit balance of £10.034, swollen by the
amount brought forward to £14,313, and
after earmarking £5600 for the dividend and
f ° r de P re ciation. the carry-forward
is £.>830 against £42<B brought in. Stone
crushed was 28,651 tons and the gold out-
put was 16,22!)0z. Developments did not
quite keep pace with the mill, ore reserves
innli8 es 1 t o mated .u at 92 ’ 118 tons a^in «t
S Bl , 8 .J 2 “ oath Lag but the value is a
trifle better—4os. sd. against 395. 9d
* * * *
The now almost down-and-out Princess
Koyiii (W.A.) held a meeting in Adelaide
lately, but on getting word from the tribu-
tors that they intended to clear out the
gathering adjourned for a month. The co.
lias about £3OO in the bank, but against that
there is £2093 interest due on preference
shares and £2OOO Westralian Government
development subsidy.
* * * #
, Speakmans (W.A.) has visions of re-
habilitating itself in the eyes of disap-
pointed Melbourne supporters. The show
\vas floated in the. belief that it was going
t° pay from the jump, but the, unexpected
happened and the co. had almost made up
its mind to give up when someone came
along and persuaded it to have another go.
Aovv the new manager reports that the value
ot the ore is improving and that the outlook
is very encouraging. But the onlv sort of
encouragement that is worth anything and
the only sort of outlook that can be taken
notice of in a case like this is the confirma 1
tion of assays by mill returns.
* * *
From the Golden Mile :
Kalgoorlie is threatened with paralysis: 500 fire-
wood-getters have struck for a rise of 6d. in the
cutting rate, and a smaller number of dissatisfied
horse-drivers, rouseabouts and loaders have followed
suit. Three of the local mines are already idle for
the want of fuel, and the cos. working the others
announce that they can’t keep going' much longer.
If they shut down the few hundred now out of work
will be swollen to 5000. For years past three fire-
wood cos. in which some of the mine-managers are
sleeping-partners have supplied the mines with fuel.
Why the mining cos. have never clubbed together and
saved money by getting their own wood is a mystery,
and why no questions have been asked by shareholders
is a bigger mystery still. To a great extent the war
is responsible for the present trouble. Just about the
time the timber industry sickened several hundred
alien enemy fuel-getters were interned, and un-
employed hewers from the South-AVest were brought
to the fields to take their places. The displaced alien
enemy had, by slogging from daylight to dark, man-
aged to earn good wages, but the 8-hours-a-day trans-
planted jarrah-jerker has not done so well, and as
he considers the rate offered is insufficient to earn a
living wage he has knocked off. The aim of the
Chamber of Mines, which is fighting the employers’
battle, is to shut Ihe mines down on the slightest
provocation in the hope that the thousands of miners
who lose their jobs will bring pressure to bear on
their wood-cutting comrades to give in. It is a
brutal and mischievous policy, but the State Labor
Government can easily settle its hash by employing
the idle cutters on public lands and giving the
mining cos. all the fuel, and, incidentally, all the
squelching they want.
* * * *
Mclntyre’s gold-hunting expedition has re-
turned to Southern Cross (W.A.) in pieces.
tv,«» hl ? g talk a . bout was reported as found,
J gn after getting over Christmas some of
tne returned prospectors will probably go out
n their own. Detailed accounts of expen-
i? connection with the various syndi-
f at ? s . tbat backed the venture are prom-
given m dUe ° onrse> but no definite date is
*
From Westonia: Edna May’s set of new
pumps have started and should unwater the
m,; Li and adjoining Deeps to 300 ft. very
quickly. Edna will get the reef at 300 ft.
0d xr Tbera is absolutely no doubt
about this. Nos. 1, 2 and 3 bores at 300 ft.
were horizontal and gave satisfactory re-
denr.Us? 0 ' 1 b 01 ’ e &t tlle Same level Was
depressed and consequently went underfoot.
soro/T S disclosed by this bore were not
tiois f at t 3(¥>fr bUt n thiS does affect ex P ecta '
thTi iui S ft A P eeps are still living in hope
that the Edna May pumpg will relieve it of a
nr 'Y 01Ty aa d expense. The cementation
nhnnt aorf e . na *fied this co. to deepen its shaft
about 40ft. in three months. The cost must
rinA hoCkll i g; P rob ably between £5O and
tJUO per foot. Reports calculated to keep
admirers peckers up are still being issued,
Jjv n the , r r e ls a terrible crash not far ahead,
ia.na May Central, which someone pre-
Wol }[d become a great mine, is still
battling with 16s. ore. Supporters say that
when the new; rock-drilling plant is working
t ings are going to hum, but machine drills
mean hard ground, and the optimist who
ooks for dividends in hard ground in a mine
which cannot make any out of soft ground,
is likely to be disappointed. The Central
crowd values the Deeps shares at 2s. 6d. and
the Deeps crowd reckons that Centrals are
not worth 2s. The Edna May heads have a
poor opinion of both and believe that thev
wall eventually secure the two at their own
price.
* * * •
r „ rj ’ bo Peacock-Palfrey man crowd, following
1 eddy Miles s shrewd lead, have roped in
two rich pigtails to sit on the Bentong
rsoard. Ihe show is claimed to be the very
best yet harpooned for Melbourne by the two
i• s or their friends. As doubts naturally
arose after the slump in values at the much-
vaunted Deebook, a good deal of check work
nas ot late been done, especially on Lot 1.
d, his is a.little slab of 35 acres that in W.
Curries original sampling averaged 2.821 b.
tin oxide per cub. yard. Check-pits raise
that average to 2.901 b., so the dredge ought
to talk once, its nose gets shoved into such
a bank. Besides Lot 1 the co. mopped up at
tba t i l . ne , oi ' the float nearly 300 acres in
little blocks round the village of Bentong, the
calculated to work into 8.600.000 cub.
yards of ground containing 6196 tons of tin
oxnle . This isn’t enough for Peacock and
his Chinese friend, so they have set gangs
sampling another 300 acres. Scout bores
have given a 21b. average here, so things look
as it the P.’s weren’t altogether wool-gather-
ing when they set out in cold print at Christ-
mas-time that the Tin Bentong was, after
all, a small potato among their shows.
Peacock’s trip to California led him to pick
out a Spud dredge for the claim, and when
lie found freights up Lord knows whpre he
did a Lloyd-George stroke by buying* a
steamer to transport the plant to the Penin-
sula. He and Khan Tok estimate to “spud
out” £109,992 profit in the first year, with
tin at £l5O and costs at 3d., and 47 p.c.
annually when the poorer areas are attacked.
* * * *
Austral Malay, having put Australia on
to the Ivampong and the Kamunting, from
which it begins to draw fine fat dividends
that promise to repay the capital outlay
many times over, has now turned to Bolivia,
where it believes that the Commonwealth’s
special knowledge of dredging will produce
equally good results. An option of a big
property in Spanish hands has been already
secured, preliminary reports have been made,
and last week mining-engineer Bethune and
electrical engineer Lawrence left for S.
America to further inquire into the pros-
pects. Bethune was recalled from the Malay
Peninsula for the job.
* * * *
Corella, Cloncurry, has reserves of 38,000
tons, containing 1990 tons copper. This
includes 12,500 tons of calcite flux, carry-
ing 330 tons of the metal, so the balance of
25,500 tons represents a 10 p.c. proposition.
The co.’s first effort was a smelting cam-
paign of 79 days, w T hen 4377 tons were dealt
with for 2791 tons fine copper and 16610 z.
gold. Costs haven’t been set out by 'the
directors, but they look to be in the locality
of £5O per ton. Of course that isn’t the
whole box of expenses for a half-year. A
lot of development work has been done, with
the result that the profit shredded out for six
months is only £3600. Drought hung up the
furnace for three months, but the dams are
now full, and the new year opens with another
smelter campaign.
* * * *
The shareholders in the Bruni Island
ITas.) Petroleum Co. have decided to take
no notice of the report of Commonwealth oil
expert Wade, who told them they might as
well look for oil in the streets of Hobart as
on Bruni, and intend to go right ahead and
bore with the £5OOO-odd they have in hand.
The co.’s manager, Guy Andrew, has found
an ancient mariner, one Captain Brown,
who swears he has known of petroleum on
North Bruni for the last 40 years and had
seen it running out of the rocks and had
burnt it. Why he had not spread the good
tidings years ago does not appear, by the
way. Andrew also said that on the main-
land of Tasmania bitumen had been picked
up 12 miles from the coast, at the' back of
Southport, and that oil would be found
there too.


Charles
Vi n Lag
1906
mmm.
FLU 5
ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR
SALLOW COMPLEXIONS.
Everyone may have a clear and bright
complexion, free from furrows or wrinkles, if
they will only take a little daily trouble in
the following manner: Buy some Puritol wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply every
night, lap a little cold water on the face ten
times with the hands every morning, allow-
ing it to get thoroughly round the closed
eyes, and pinch the skin very gently across
all wrinkles. Puritol Wax Soap, which
leaves a fine film of wax on the skin, should
be used; this acts as a protective during the
day. This treatment arouses the dormant
nerves and blood vessels, and undoubtedly
accounts for many of the clear complexions
so much admired by those who do not yet
know the secret. — Advt. [3
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (Sl CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FE.SQ (Eb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
SINCE 1679.
SINCE 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, January IT. 1910.
My Dear Arini, —
The Trade Fair opened by the State Gov-
ernor bulges in the Town Hall with many
things not made in Germany. It is chiefly
a man’s show, for women are cold to the
charms of leather belts that, go round wheels
instead of waists. Still, there are some
things of interest to us. For instance,
there’s a silvery-grey piano, home grown
from its wooden house to its velvet tones.
Any woman would cheerfully take that off
the premises. Also there are bags —the
small leather trifles the pickpurse likes to
snatch. Germany, it appears, had an octo-
pus grip on our peggies, too. To lose it has
been a fool's game for Kaiserland, but good
for Us. Australian tanners are getting-
experts in color. Leather, shown in long
tanned strips, shades into all the best decora-
tive tones.
The Light Horse Comforts’ Fund did a
rattling business at the Fair the other after-
noon. A duck (I borrow the word of a
damsel in the gallery) in khaki and crisp
curly hair collected the shillings at the tea
counter and gave the right change and a
smile to gloating flappers. This hero was
suspected .of having returned from the
Front, but he looked so healthy no one dared
to ask him. A golden-haired voluntary
waitress knitted socks at his shrine, and
occasionally tore herself away to take a mun-
dane order for corned beef.
As Lord Chelmsford gets the best vice-
regal hat offering in India, his haughty and
ambitious lady will at last feel that her
merits are recognised. She is a Churchill,
on the distaff side, as no one here was ever
permitted to forget. Lady Chelmsford at
one time hoped for Australia’s best —the
Commonwealth G.-G.’s throne—or appeared
to. But she went the wrong way about it.
Her petty jealousy of the popular Denmans
actually goaded the usually diplomatic
Chelmsford to “protest” against the then
G.-G. feasting local school kiddies! Educa-
tion, said his huffy Ludship. was not a Com-
monwealth matter ! When the Denmans gave a
big party to the post and ’phone officials, a
loose-tongued Help remarked: “Thank good-
ness, the ’phone girl is a Commonwealth
blessing—or otherwise —so we won't have a
State protest to-day
Poor “Little Jinks,” as he was affection-
ately called long ago in Victoria Barracks,
has been killed in action. He was a sub-
altern in the N.S.W. Permanent Artillery
in the when Hutton ground smart sol-
diers out of the local mill. He’d left
the service for years when war broke out.
But he beat his rose-garden spade into a
sword again, and as Major Jenkins hurried
off to do his bit. He was the baby of the
Nepean Towers Jenkins family, and a brother
of Dr. Jenkins, of Macquarie-street. Mrs.
.7. H. P. Murray, wife of Papua’s long Ex-
cellency. is a sister.
Though Justice Rich’s eldest son Jack
fell in France he wasn't one of the snobbish
crowd who deliberately turn their backs on
Australian regiments. Before war broke out
young Rich, just emancipated from school,
took his mother and sister to England, xney
were on a health trip, and he was in charge
till the date when he should tackle work as
a medical student. But when Potsdam blew
up. all his plans were altered: he at once
volunteered, went to Aldershot, and later
to the Front. Major Everard Digby writes
of the youngster’s gallant death. ’Tie could
have saved his own life, according to the
adjutant of his regiment. But he stood by,
waiting for all his men to jump first into the
trench after the return from an attack.”
Frances Hodgkins, the Maoriland artist
who was here awhile ago, had one of the
most flourishing Art classes in Paris when
the Thud came. She packed up her color-
box and moved her chattels to St. Ives, a
picturesque Cornish hamlet with media?val
sanitation. Pupils rose as fast as young mush-
rooms round her studio, and things were
beginning to hum when the War Office sent
its ultimatum. “No sketching on the coast."
or thunder to that effect. Still the order
isn't quite fatal. And, anyway, she has her
own brush. She had six pictures hung on
the line at the International Exhibition.
Included were two or three portraits—a
new departure for the brisk little lady, who
caught the backwash of the Post Impres-
sionist wave in France.
Sydney’s clever young fiddler. Donald
Mcßeatli. sends a line from Texas. On
December 5 he was in the Lone Star State
with John McCormack’s company—chiefly
John, followed by a golden tide of dollars.
Donald says: “The papers in U.S.A. think
1 am improving very much, but I don’t see
how that can be. There seems to be no
time on tour for serious study. However, in
May I hope to make a supreme effort and
find time to work. I am using a violin
made in Sydney in 1854 by a man named
Heaps, and I feel I’m in luck in getting hold
of it.” Gracious! Make violins, too, can
we? I’m sure we’ll manage those clothes-
pegs yet.
An exhibition of “art.” fancy needlework
and infants’ efforts in plasticene still strews
the tables and walls of the Education Palace
in Loftus-street. Most of the “art” is too
painful to be remembered without an
anaesthetic. And some of it, including an
attempt to depict Christ walking on the
waters, is the work of teachers in the In-
struction Department! This sounds hard on
the teachers, but they are only the victims
of a system. Under the experimental rule of
Campbell Carmichael they were overwhelmed
with subjects. They are, in consequence,
forced to teach Art —form and color ex-
pressed on canvas or otherwise. And, of
course, 19 out of 20 of them can’t do it.
For whoever can teach art has rarely the
temperament to teach anything else.
In one alcove of the gallery teachers’ work
is set apart in haughty exclusiveness. The
china painting is fair, stencil designs and
similar fancy tricks are quite up to the
standard of exhibits sent from the country
to the Easter Show. The “portrait” paint-
ing, however, with one or two exceptions,
ought to be heavily draped in oblivion. The
kiddies’ efforts are the most “live” part of
the show. Leichhardt Infants’ School has
been to the Zoo. It shows its impressions in
plasticene models. Other babes of seven or
eight have been thrilled by the sinking of
harmless merchant ships, and the pictorial
results need to be seen to be shuddered at.
In still life there is a better attempt at form.
But the pupil who depicts a very green
cucumber with a knife in a state of collapse
beside it had a heavy hand with color. As
the exhibition was opened with a flourish,
and as Under-Secretary Board appeared to
be elated with the gaudy, ill-arranged show,
the Department is unlikely to feel any re-
morse. J. E. Branch is its Art overseer.
Waves of khaki undulated through the
streets last week. They calmed down in the
Domain—to he sorted out, as it were, by
Inspector-General McCay. a weary-looking
man still lame from Gallipoli, and far from
strong yet. The continual rush of feminine
relatives and friends upset the steady tramp
of a fine-looking lot of men. and the more
emotional admirers became a mild nuisance.
But the march, in spite of these unrehearsed
details, was stirring.
The new wing, for which the Waitara
Home sisters return thanks to Mrs. John
Toohey and Miss Egan, was opened the other
afternoon. W. Thompson, M.L.A., a plump
and urbane politician, performed the cere-
mony. Dr. Svdney Watkins and his daugh-
ter, devoted friends to the youngsters in this
airy upland home, acted as Mr. and Mrs.
Santa Claus. The Christmas-tree having
been looted, the orators got their breath and
plunged into statistics. The Home, it seems,
has a steadily-diminishing death-rate. Long
wards lined with snow-white cots and every
up-to-date contrivance in the hospital gear
contribute to keep SO kiddies fat and rosy.
Any distracted mother of ten who wonders
how the soft-voiced nuns can handle nearly
a hundred riotous little humans ought to
have seen a Sister in pursuit of an infant
Samson who was making a beeline for for-
bidden spoil. Nothing happened. But
Samson looked as if he'd learned that dis-
cretion was the better part of valor, and
toddled up to give himself in custody.
Brian Egan, of Kiameron, grandson of the
late Egan of Mount Harris, known to old
hands as “Briany.” has put an engagement
ring on Nancy Hill's finger. The girl is a
daughter of Bob Hill, of Buttabone, one of
the State’s best amateur shots. Hill's
parent was the old Bent-street Cottage early-
identity. who afterwards was an M.L.C.
Egans and Hills have swapped dampers on
the shores of the Macquarie River for the
last 40 years. I’m told. Mount Harris was
the place where Oxley boiled his last billy
before trekking to the coast, by the way.
The Spencer Rruntons’ fair-haired lass
Jean was married to her Captain Adrian
Moreing on Jan. 11. The wedding was in
London. Mamma gave the bride away, as
father stays in Sydney to put out the cat —
when he isn’t splashing at Manly. Jean’s
new hubby is in the Royal Fusiliers. I
suppose he is one of the mining Moreings
whose chief is Algernon, dear.
Mr. Geoff. Elkington. the hit-the-ceiling
M.L. sheep-grower, left by the Osterley
last Saturday. His little wife, ex-Bunty,
pulled the strings that took her London-
ward some weeks ago. She wanted to be on
the spot to welcome a brother and three
cousins who were either returning wounded
or going away to take that risk.
Young Geoffrey Hughes didn't get away
as soon as he expected. Just now he is try-
ing to pluck a passport from the authorities
so that he may join an aviation school in
England. The" delays with regard to the
Victorian academy for fledglings are intol-
erable to lads who want to get to the I ront.
Ai. elder Hughes brother, Roger, is soon off
to work with the A.M.C. He is waiting for
the call to jump into khaki. But at pre-
sent young doctors are said to be tumbling
over each other in Egypt.
War-correspondent Ashmead Bartlett
climbs down the Sonoma gangway in Syd-
ney on February 8. Under the Tait man-
agement in the Town Hall on the 12th of
that steamy month he will give his first
sketch of glorious, tear-dimmed Gallipoli.
Eily, daughter of Donald McDonald, of
the E.. S. & A. Bank, Waverley, chose New
Year's Day for licr orange-blossoming. The
groom, Lieut. Frank Godolphin, js a younger
son of the late Colonel Rowe, V .D., of Dar-
ling Point. The best girl wore blush-pink
finery under gossamer ivory top-hamper.
Pink, as you know, is almost as necessary
at a wedding party as the icing on the cake.
Lieut. Sep Rowe was second-best man.
After paying two fares to the South Coast,
the groom hurries off to tell the enemy what
his new wife thinks of him.
Less than two years ago Kathryn Steven-
son was a Savage grand-opera star over in
the L T .S.A., and had risen to headlines on
Broadway. “Butterfly” was offered by Chi-
cago opera folk, but Cupid stepped in with
another contract, and the singing-bird sailed
for Australia as Mrs. Lorance Carter. Now
Beecroft shelters the nightingale (who was
introduced to Sydney by the Liedertafel a
while back), but she is coming to town soon
to show the young Australian how to produce
notes like her own.
His purple-clad Excellency Cerretti left
last week to have another look at Maoriland
(the first was too brief even to write a
book about). Fellow-passengers were the Tom
Daltons, with whom the clerical dignitary put
in a recent holiday at their Bowral home-
stead.
Ruth, a daughter of the George Galtons,
of West Maitland, had the help of pink roses
dotting an elaborate white lace frock at her
wedding. Alluring little bows in the same
color splashed through the foamy drapery.
The groom was Jim Wolstenholme —also of
West Maitland. The ceremony was per-
formed in St. Philip’s by gaslight; and the
wedding cake was cut over the way at the
Wentworth. Three bridesmaidens in cherrv-
pink (there’s not a moment’s escape from it)
had their dainty corsages laced with black
velvet. That's the fascinating trick the older
grand-opera lady peasants, glittering with
gems, taught us when they fainted in the
arms of the tenor. Of course the brides-
maidens carried directoire sticks headed off
with roses.
The 2nd Divisional Ammunition Column
Committee —D.A.C. for short —thrashed out
its fighting-for-funds scheme the other after-
noon. Mr. O’Donnell took the chair and
restrained the ardor of the meeting when
the State Fights bogey occasionally reared
its head. The D.A.C. is a composite
column that left in November. But at pre-
sent the Sydney committee is disinclined to
salaam to the Victorian dames, and Bris-
bane, if it gets going, will probably decline
to recognise either. But that’s only because
they don’t know one another. When their
hoys have to stand up to a common enemy
the wrinkles will all go out. Meantime hon.
sec. Mrs. Ballantyne will lie in wait for
helpers at Falmouth Chambers. Pitt-street,
three days a week; and hon treas. Miss
Andrew will take your cash at the same
address.
From nowadays breathless “Rosna” :
The Edmund Barton damsel Stephanie was duly
married off to Dr. Scot-Skirving's son Robert
Churchill a day or two before the parental Bartons
left for home and work —dash it I The knot was
tied by the Rev. Latimer Jackson, who used to
officiate at St. James’s, Sydney. Lieut. R. J. A.
Massie, of the 4th Battalion, upheld the benedict,
while the Lionel Robinsons’ daughter Viola sup-
ported the bride, so the entire revel was Australian-
made. The bride wore white cloth trimmed with
stunk, and a white velvet hat, and departed for the
honeyweek in golden brown. Reception and other
frills were dispensed with owing to the death of the
benedict’s brother. The pair are going to house-
keep on the Old Brompton-road.
Ruth Bannister, the young Sydney wood-
sculptress. has been given a commission ny
Melba. An order to carve an overmantel.
Ruth recently exhibited some of the work
at the Women's Handicrafts show in Lon-
don. It was the Australian design she's
just finished for Lady Denman.
The Old Gold and Silver Fund flourishes
like sloth and muddle in the Defence office.
After steadily collecting the goods the com-
mittee now sells them in Paling's. Any
Saturday morning you can acquire unique
trinkets at prices that Shimri Mclsrael
declares a thshame. Miss Wentworth—a
generous giver to the store —and hon. sec.
J. E. Richardson stood behind the counter
the opening morning. The golden thread of
unselfishness is stouter than it was before
the war. One heroine has parted with a
brand-new gold wristlet watch of expensive
make. Other cheerful martyrs have torn
the rings off their fingers, and valuable pen-
dants from their heaving bosoms. Oh, yes!
Oh. yes! Proceeds go into the war chest
and tanned sheepskin collection plates. The
present flourishing business is the glittering
evolution of the humble silver-thimble fund.
Army Service Committee girls were out
for all' thev could make at the Trade Fair
on Friday afternoon. Icecreams and buns
were interwoven with raffle tickets in the
Town Hall tea gallery. When prospective
customers —very warm and thirsty—arrived
they were pounced on by the' amateur
waitress, who isn’t tired of her job like the
professional. Lottie Gilbert and Hilda
Caro and other attractive damsels made these
swift sorties; and in the dim background
Miss Craig tackled the tea-urn and all its
capers. No idol in khaki was permanently
on the premises to distract the attention of
the lady-helps.
There was a quiet wedding in St. John’s.
Moss Vale, the other week. The lady was
Muriel Carter, eldest treasure of the Arthur
Carter family, of Hanslow Park, Sutton
Forest. Harry Lambeth, the local shire
clerk, was the leading gentleman. Ilis
brother, by the way, was lately killed in
the Dardanelles, so the party was unfrilled.
Muriel wore her going-away outfit —a fawn-
colored tailor-built.
The Divisional Engineers and Signallers
Fund Committee is mothering a continental
evening at the Sydney Sports Ground on
January 22. The programme appears to
include" everything except a dam-sinking
competition and a jumble sale. Tickets, one
shilling.
At Sydney’s Garden Theatre the Green
Dandies" do" the work while the audience
cools off after the heat of the day. Under the
sheltering fig it sips ices and wonders how
pretty Mona Thomas contrives to sing a
coon "song (suitably capered) without a
streaming countenance. The frilly emerald-
green skirts worn with Swiss cordages are
short enough to show the elegant, silk-hosed
limbs of the Dublin contralto, Tessa Byrne.
She has the Spanish appearance not uncom-
mon in the West of Ireland. V ith a man-
tilla flung over her “raven locks,” she might
easily claim a remote connection with the
Armada.
Mrs. Watteeuw, wife of the Belgian Con-
sul, is to sing at the French concert in
February.
Ynys Sutton Tatham, the Sydney girl
who recently worked for about a year in the
French soldiers’ canteens, was quietly
married the other day. The young man’s
name didn’t come my way. But I hear he’s
off to do his bit at the Front before long.
Meanwhile his bride is, according to her
pre-war custom, helping the children of
mean streets. She’s financing “Sunshine
Camp” at Dee Why. There are about 50
little guests, who went “just as they are”
from Surry Hills and adjacent parts. She’s
a brick, isn’t she?
“Rosna,” after telling me about the re-
cent entertainment of six of our own Y.C’s.
in London, says it would be impossible to
throw too many bouquets at the Anzac
Buffet, which has arisen there without fuss
or frill to do its bit for Tommy Kangaroo.
It now lias large quarters attached to the
military offices in Horseferry-road. with
billiard-, writing-, reading- and music-rooms,
and a big luncheon-room, where excellent re-
freshments are “on” from 9.30 a.m. to 10
p.m. There is an Australian concert each
afternoon, every scrap of catering, attend-
ance and managing is voluntary, and oyer
1000 officers and men use the Buffet daily
without payment of any kind. Perhaps its
greatest value is that the place is a definite
Australian corner in old London, where the
boys know they can meet and amuse them-
selves in a friendly, unofficial, gum-leaf
atmosphere without wowsing of any kind.
Organist Lilian Frost is holidaying in
Tasmania. She is a native of the cool
isle where the girls grow peaches and the
men apples.
Nigger brown is the poor relation of
khaki as a color. But it is promised as
the rich woman’s favorite shade this
autumn. Possibly its tone-cousinship to the
soldiers’ work-a-day garb is the reason.
The fugitive notion of having an Edith
Cavell memorial here in stone or bronze is
going to fade into thin air. A better idea,
to found a rest house for weary nurses, is
already in train. The Cullen dame will help
to apply the fuse later on.
The back premises of Government House,
which had fallen into had repair, are now
getting a hearty smack of paint. Other reno-
vations, including the remodelling of the kit-
chen, are also progressing favorably—and
bother the expense! The Stricklands take so
much exercise on horseback that nine or ten
nags are stabled at Moss Vale. I’m sure
Yerbrugghen won't have them in the old
Govt. House stables. So they'll have to be
tethered to the sentry in the pill-box when
the family comes to town.
Tours affectionately,
VANDOBIAN.


“THUNDER” TAKES A TRIP
HOME.
At the War.
. V:
tS
?S&
\
£X«,
r<-
,JSI
V .-••
M
Mi
\
7
x<>' 3
SiM
V %M{
.-t>
r,i
a©**
.77
■:£V
WA
<rUrf
s*?
HP/
b.'-^v
IP'S
<^:Zl
m
/
mmot
’■■ .'• fb>Z*' JfU-
- - -7' i L*y^Q’'i /
v -•
■£VX
®O.
m
mmm
■ ■ ~- ■■/
' y:r/L
W.
•)• X
f&S&f
V.
(?OBW
Burr i
- r;-il jiff?%»Cvi*>«<i&-i, • •*
. Mg J. a?
S#S*f3lSlSilBliiß
mzkmmw
«tin£rer*
*k
>- tei
.
;E&
s
§g
«ate^B»«aagai
NS
&
*SbiiS
//
&£A$S§
S&gsCi
.m
*M
£:■
papppipif
wmmimmm.
!M'
■ r >'.'.
G&kg;
•:>*. !•
:s§%£?•
g«
®s§?
jjg
MS
C\
•V
4 !&,
RStiltii
' /'*-■' ,
r 7' 7
?&£
1
fx
r,
WsS§o
C
fa A
mm
rv
7\
S
H
•->«
,7
C -
a
Sg£
MS
r \r
■
■O
7'yj^i:
.\a
m
m&
>}&s
'■ ’ C >;':
:•■ 7' j
C 7 X <
Q*"*U-"*
&
z
Co
1
ml! 7 A t
;CV^
.. •'•'•
I
*
W&;;
■NV
7 -' .
✓<S£
-■■■ ■'
■■ . J- - J/. ■
W^^md
?>s
~n ;>
l ! |^^
Wvfy -JsMF n 11
m^mm
'cF^'c
fafixPA
\1
m,
r-'S’XJy/i
Wit
’fZe&j&y. £
4V&.
. >
rf^V
.$ j«b
,
V , M
Zr 7
. " i.v y'-’T/. T- *v
.•V*r-. j.■>% ;.,cfj
‘/A.
M
■ - . :■
JT,i
■>A
SSST
a*y #
U’-'Vit*
IKL
m
<£
vmm
C '<yV ,-i^f
l t
L/Z" 4 2>>J
■-.*■
\3.:
\
it
f«jt
one
f, • -Jy... .
pi' i '' *? :§ .
F jf Js- i' .? .f .-?
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is a generous
Sportsman too.
With the ever*
Ready foe
He will barter;
For, you know,
There’s no reason
Whv a fight
J o
Should be dull
Instead of bright.
“Fags for polish,
‘COBRA’ Man
“Shoot you later,
If we can!”


Every Sea Traveller
The
“ROWARD”
LIFEBELT
Self-infla ting
42/-
And Less 10 Per Cent. Cash
Bonus if purchased by
Saturday.
Should Procure
One of These.
The Belt consists of two rubber compartments
charged with specially prepared fluids, and is sim-
plicity itself to adjust. You simply place it around
the body, either over or under the waistcoat. Should
you be on a boat and danger threaten, or should
you be seized with cramp when swimming, or fall
out of a punt or boat, just pull the cord sufficiently
to release the valve and the belt will instantly inflate,
keeping head and shoulders well out of water. Full
directions go with every box, and refills can always
be obtained.
ON SALE FANCY DEPARTMENT (PERFUMERY
SECTION), GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market
and
George St*.,
SYDNEY.
DUNLOPS
GIVE THE BEST SERVICE
:
COST OF MOTORING.
it
YOU EBDUCE THE UPKEEP OF
YOUR CAR WHEN “ DUNLOP9 ”
ARE FITTED. THEY COST LESS
TO BUY, AND RUN FURTHER.
THEY ARE AUSTRALIAN MADE.
DUN LOPS
GIVE THE BEST SERVICE
PLEASURES OF MOTORING.
HIGH-GEADE TYRES MEAN AN
ABSENCE OF THOSE ANNOYING
ROADSIDE TROUBLES AND
DELAYS THAT ROB TOURING OF
HALF ITS ATTRACTIONS.
“DUNLOPS” ARE THE HIGHEST
GRADE MADE II II II II
DUN LOPS
GIVE THE BEST SERVICE
!.* • . 1 '
AUSTRALASIAN MOTORISTS!
WHEN YOU FIT “DUNLOPS,” YOU
SUPPORT LOCAL INDUSTRY-
KEEP YOUR MONEY IN YOUR OWN
COUNTRY—WITHOUT SACRIFICING
QUALITY AND SERVICE. ALWAYS
SPECIFY “DUNLOPS.” IT PAYS !
OBTAIN ABUS *T.L GARAGES.
DUN LOPS
GIVE THE BEST
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, January 17, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
In the grilling heat of Saturday afternoon
the G.-G. and his Helps indulged themselves
at Caulfield, but his Ex. returned early to
give Lady Helen a hand with a party on the
lawn at Government House. The guests,
numbering about 300, included members of
the Friendly Union of Soldiers’ Wives and
miscellaneous women folk of soldiers and
their children. Tea, Punch and Judy,
swings under the trees on the lawns, con-
jurer Malini, ice-cream and various tab-
leaux filled in the time.
Our own Victor Hood, private secretary
to Sir Arthur Stanley, and a very perma-
nent governors’ help in this country, has
been passed a C.M.G. by an admiring Sov-
ereign. The recipient is a younger son of
Viscount Bridport, but that is not his only
claim to the bauble, although I forget what
the others are for the moment.
The Victorian Agent-General Mcßride’s
daughter Catherine is now Mrs. Fisher,
with a captain of her own somewhere in
France with the Field Artillery. The new
dignity was conferred upon her at Hamp-
stead with a considerable flourish just before
her warrior and his battery joined the Hun
chase.
A hail from London announces that f big
Geoff Kiddle and pretty Miss Phipps
(“Auntie” Phipps, of bygone Melbourne
days) are to be made one in March.
Squatter Geoff starts on his third visit to
the Front soon after the ceremony. He
expects his luck to take a turn for the
better in the ’stances. The first time he
got within striking distance of the Huns
they “winged” him in the neck ; the second
time a sniper clipped his eye. But those
are things which no fellow can help without
a lot of practice, so Geoff is not a bit down-
hearted.
Charles Chapman Napoleon Greene, bar-
rister, died with the old year at Esker,
Bairnsdale. He was a son of Captain
Samuel Greene (Chevalier Greene), who
was an aide to Napoleon and died as the
result of wound received at Waterloo.
Charles was a jaunty young fellow of 75
when the light went out. His mother was
descended from the Earl of Desart, and the
family shares in several Irish estates in-
herited from her. A daughter, Mrs. Howe,
is in Melbourne helping her sick Major
husband to patch up his health so that he
may return to his Indian regiment.
Colonel (A.M.C.) Bryant, who recently
returned from Lemnos, is recuperating in
Tassy under the chaperonage of a brace of
daughters. He will return to the war lines
shortly.
Muldoon’s picnic wasn’t in it with the
Parliamentary picnic arranged ostensibly to
“open” the Bairnsdale-Orbost section of the
coastal railway. I happened to be travel-
ling through the Orbost-Marlo-Lakes district
before the ceremony, and a few stray facts
introduced themselves without apology. The
original party was to be 20, but it grew until
it amounted to 135, and, my dear, you
shouldn’t have heard the language of the poor
man who had to shift the crowd per motor
over the wildest part of the Tyers country,
which is composed of sand precipices and tall
limber. “It’ll be like shiftin’ an army,” he
said —anyhow, that’s a summary of what he
said.
Twenty or more motor-cars were chartered
to convey a portion of the party to Buchan
(where the Caves are) from Nowa Nowa,
which sits jingling with bellbirds on the
tail-tip of Lake Tyers. At Nowa Nowa a
caterer to the party told me that eight men
had been sent up to Buchan to erect tents
for some of the picnickers. The grafters
were to be away a week and the loafers were
to occupy the shelters for one night only.
On the lakes the sudden rush of this pic-
nic army was likely to overcrowd the
capacity of the launches. But the controllers
of the traffic were equal to the momentous
occasion. A large extra launch was lugged
round from the Big Lakes to Lake Tyers,
over (he intervening miles of sand. It took
14 or 16 horses to haul it and the job cost
£4O. District estimates of the total cost of
transport tremble around £2OOO. Altogether
it must have been a spree calculated to dispel
the_ gloom surrounding the State’s financial
position—for the time being.
When Rider Haggard, who is coming to
Australia to inquire into the possibilities of
a scheme for settling British soldiers on the
land after the war, was in Australia some
years ago and was lionised socially, his
thoughts were mostly on the land. No one
could get him to talk about a book, especially
a. book by R.H. The girls at dinner-parties
gave him up as a hopeless job. When he was
not talking land and pumpkins he was roar-
ing with laughter at masculine jokes. His
laugh made Peacock’s sound cheap, and his
laughing mouth was like that of an ogre—a
fearsome wide view of scarlet and white
framed by a beard.
The widow Judkins and her 16-year-old
daughter are living at Sandringham, where
they put in a lot of time taking wounded
soldiers motoring and boating. Their kind-
ness has in one case had serious complica-
tions. A returned warrior and the maiden
hostess discovered the usual symptoms.
Mamma smiles on the suitor, but won’t hear
of marriage until daughter reaches 21.
Mrs. Pearse, of Meka Station, Westralia,
is diluting the summer with a helping of the
Gippsland Lakes. She is a splendid swim-
mer and gets up a dust for the pastime by
motoring. Pearse, deceased, wrote his name
large over sheep country in Westralia. Be-
sides Meka he left his widow a share in half
a dozen other stations. So she finds widow-
ing a very endurable form of existence.
In summer-time, when not directing atten-
tion to flaws in the Arbitration Act and
indicating the comparative excellences of
law and justice, Henry Higgins gets tired
of looking out of his upstairs window at
Governor Stanley over the way. When that
happens, he leaves Doona to the dusting-
staff and takes his family and cooking-
experts down to Dromana. There, close to
the bay, he has a dignified retreat among the
ti-tree, where there isn’t a Governor within
50 miles.
The Conservatorium of Music (Director
Fritz Hart) sends out a glorified account of
itself in celebration of this its twenty-second
year. Melba writes the foreword: “I leave
all. my pupils at the Albert-street Conserva-
torium in the hands of my lieutenants, in
whom I have absolute confidence; and I
wish it to be recognised that the vocal tuition
they receive is completely in accordance with
my own methods.” On her return from
America early in the year “Madame” will
resume her classes at the shop.
Now a little from Adelaide:—
Mrs. Arthur Coles, who was injured in the motor
smash that killed her husband a fortnight ago, died
on Wednesday. There are no children.
The E. C. Clelands have gone to look for some-
thing cooler in the other States, particularly Tas-
mania. The quest shouldn’t wear them out. Pew
places can do more in the way of persistent tem-
peratures than this city has managed since the last
week of December. Meanwhile, as talk of lawyer
Cleland reminds me, Attorney-General Vaughan, who
has been holidaying in Hobart, has returned to his
political muttons, to be faced with the difficult
business of choosing a new Chief Justice. Already
a movement is afoot to erect a statue to the memory
of the old one, and much of the necessary money
has been thus soon subscribed.
In spite of motor-traction and the “uselessness” of
cavalry in the present fray, there is still an appar-
ently brisk demand for horses and mules. The bro-
ther of a local cleric has in the last 15 months
purchased 600,000 horses and 300,000 mules in
Canada and the U.S.A. for the Entente. The animals
are shipped across to England and trained there
for military work.
Veteran Simpson Newland had the bad luck to
be knocked down by a motor on Monday afternoon
and badly shaken. At an age when most men would
feel they had earned a spell he has gone on ham-
mering vigorously at his two hobbies—one connected
with Murray waters; the other the straight-North
railway.
The State Children’s Council has lost one of its
best workers by the death of Thomas Rhodes, who was
among its founders and its president for 21 years. The
Council was formed in 1887, with Dr. Stirling as
president, and Miss C. 11. Spence amongst its most
active workers. A misunderstanding with the Gov-
ernment led to its resignation in a body, but it
was re-formed in ’B9, and included most of the
original members. Mr. Rhodes was born in Eng-
land in ’39, but reached Australia when he was
still a small boy, and became one of the State’s best-
known and most respected business men.
Major Mclnerney, gallantly leading the
military police on Saturday, got his head
cracked in a riot instigated by a crowd indig-
nant that an alien-named merry-go-round
should be allowed to collect the money of
loyal Australians. The Major will not
admit that blame attaches to returned sol-
diers, very few of whom were arrested. He
mostly blames agitated females and sympa-
thetic male citizens. Major Tim was a
woman-fearer in the bachelor days before his
fair-haired wife educated him to the view
that “all women are not alike.” He and
bachelor brother Tay Pay (the lawyer and
University Warden) used to house together
on St. Kilda Esplanade under the care of a
devoted old housekeeper who snarled at the
swish of a strange petticoat.
Mr. and Mrs. Carlyle Smythe success-
fully escaped Zeppelins, mines, torpedoes
and submarines, and landed in Melbourne
last week. They went to Europe via
Batavia, and acquired some knowledge of
Dutch, which was useful when they reached
the Continent. They are both excellent lin-
guists, so they placed their knowledge at the
service of the home authorities. In addi-
tion to expressing his own views on the war,
Carlyle has arranged to bring several war
experts to Australia to tell us what is hap-
pening—if they know and Mr. Pearce will
let them.
Mrs. Goldstein, widow of the late Col.
Goldstein, and mother of Vida and Mrs.
“Book Lover” Champion, died last week.
She was a woman of great understanding
and large sympathies. So she was able to
dwell happily even in the midst ot the
Pankhurst-Goldstein performances. Her
life was full of interest and her influence
was a great factor in the work (or what-
ever it is) of her daughters.
The sound of' a pistol shot in the dead of
night quickened the heart-beat of looraK
last week. No, this is not the introductory
phrase of a new melodrama. It is nieiej
a statement about a really-truly pistol shot.
A most romantic state of affairs was behind
it. A love-lorn Society lass had endeavored
to silence for ever her love-rushed pulse.
The soldier-man upon whom she had cast
her affection failed to see her in any other
light than that of a good pal. He called
to say good-bye on the eve of sailing for the
trenches. And because he did not kneel on
a tin tack and propose, the maiden sought
a melodramatic end instead of the solace of
memories of what might have been. How-
ever, she did not rehearse her part, so she
failed to pull the trigger successfully.
Lieut. Paul Lohan, a soon-to-leave soldier,
got married at the Carmelite. Church, Middle
Park, last week, and took his bride to Syd-
ney for the ’moon. She had a special incen-
tive to change her name. It would, have
been an embarrassing thing to. live with m
the years to come. Miss Doris Brownlow-
Fatt! A painfully significant name if she
became bronzed and plump, and a terrible
satire if she grew lean and pallid.
A garden fete in Toorak has unearthed a
Secret. A highly respectable, though wealthy,
family has a palace buried deep in large
shrubberies and grounds, but owing to the
eternal Mary Jane troubles it lives in the
gardener’s cottage while the butler camps
in the castle. This liveried nobleman keeps
his impressive eye open for visitors and
warns madame in the lean-to of their
approach. She strolls through a side door
into the always-prepared drawing-room and
—well, there you are.
Mrs. George Ohirnside has been busy
shrouding the legs of the Werribee Park otto-
mans in holland prior to leaving for Egypt
by the Osterley to join daughter Audrey,
who has been devoting herself to the comfort-
ing of sick and damaged soldiers. Pa Chirn-
side has also moved on. But he’s merely
gone to England to secure a new pasha for
a harem of Jersey cattle.
I told you about the German staff at a
swell seaside hotel. Well, it has been re-
inforced. When an English cook left the
other day a Teuton filled his place.
A young person of social tonnage is busy-
ing herself with a house-and-land agency.
She does not run an office or advertise in the
manner of common business people, but acts
in a mouse-like way among the Very
Naicest, and gets their palaces let, sublet,
bought or sold. But you mustn’t mention
“trade,” my dear. You see, it’s a “hobby.”
Nita Hunter, another of Bendigo’s charm-
ing products, has placed a snowy cap upon
her auburn locks, and is learning how to
nurse at St. Vincent’s Hospital. Both of
her brothers have long since donned khaki,
so Nita saw no reason why she should not
do her share. Eleanor Leahy, daughter of
ex-Speaker Leahy, of the Bananaland House,
is also doing her little lot at St. Evins, which
stands in glory beside St. Vincent’s. She
finds it far more interesting than reviewing
drought-stricken paddocks at home.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, embalmer of a myriad
Australian wildflowers in imperishable oils,
nowadays lives the simple life at The Cot-
tage, on the exclusive upper slopes of Mount
Macedon—as simple a life, that, is, as the
prevailing social conditions will permit.
Katherine Susannah Pritchard has landed
on her native soil, just the same Katherine
Susannah, despite that her novel, “The
Pioneers,” evidently educated Charles
Garvice. Anyway, he gave her the Hodder
and Stoughton prize of £2OO for it. Kath-
erine would have been here some weeks ago,
but she changed her mind at the last minute.
Modesty forbade her to travel by the boat
that carried the film of “The Pioneers”
which is about to be shown in Australia.
Balcombe Quick, a bright young medical
man who two or three years ago nailed up
his equally bright young brass-plate in the
very heart of Toorak, where he found the in-
habitants all that could be desired, has been
hoard from as being on hospital work at
Cairo. Major Quick had previously been
reported from various spots, often in the
firing-line, and since he was one of the early
medical birds at. Anzac his transference to
a less-shrapnelled sphere gives his relatives
comfort. He is a son of that William Quick
who for many years has sharebroked on the
Melbourne Stock Exchange.
Lieutenant Lionel Robinson, R.N., xvho has
raked in the Distinguished Service Cross for
his doings at Ypres, is a Melbourne vouth.
His father is Frederick Robinson, of Grace
Park, whose Australian woollen-mills have
been trying for years to push German
jaeger-stuff off the market. Young Robin-
son’s grandfather was the late Bennett Rob-
inson, the pink, white-whiskered old fellow
who knew more about selling a bear than
any other six commercial experts of his dav
and generation; and Lionel Robinson of the
London Stock Exchange, who won the Cup
with The \ictory and is keeping open house
for Australian wounded at the family shack
in Norfolk, is Lionel’s proud uncle.
Napoleon Boffard’s New Year’s greeting
to his friends is a photo, of himself, sub-
scribed with the wish that 1916 will be
peaceful. It isn’t very placid thus far. But
the wish harmonises with Nap. Boffard's
portrait, anyhow. He looks sternly benign
sweetly resolute, beautifully confident. A
tenor to be equally loved and respected.
Maoriland reports the death of Major
Booty Levin at Alexandria. His wife
was Zoe Johnson, a daughter of Charlie
Johnson, MX C, of windy Wellington, and
a young family 1S left for her to stem-
through the shallows. W. H. Levin Ve
longed on his mother’s side to the notable
mSnTiiuhistm; 0 ." d °* e a lot Awards
On her last trip from Egypt the Tahiti
returned to their Maori oasis Adjutant-
captain Pitt and his wife and a new sin
The young hope was the first Maori babv
deposited by the stork in Pharaoh's land
She sat in the corner of the carriage knit
ting, and the way she worked drew the eves
of every woman near by. The movement
was all downward from the palms of the
hands, which were held perfectly horizontal
with the wool and needles underneath'
“This is the way the German women knit”
she explained at last to an inquisitive neigh
bor. “I spent my schooldays in Germany
and learned this method, which puts the
minimum strain on the hands and fingers”
and she galloped through five more rows in
a twinkling. i
Wild duck in some parts of this State are
not waiting for the shooting season to end
their days. At the Winton Swamp, near
Benalla, duck, cranes, plover and ibis have
been dying. The water the poor birds drink
and swim in is excessively tainted with
decayed vegetable matter, and they have
been poisoned. That is the theorv of local
residents, but a number of the dead birds
were sent to the University for post-mortem
examination, and the coroner’s jury mav
throw new light on the cause of the calamity
In any case, the gifts of murdered wild du'cli
that sportsmen bestow on their friends next
month will be received with caution. Friends
will wonder whether the feathered victim
was doing a last dying flutter when the
sportsman took liis deadly aim.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


■ - '“S v^
r
J% 1 • ijj X
/ ( V 0 >»’ -7
\ i v \ ; '
wv —«* *' u JlkzSS
X
r ._.
5 -V';; 7 .. ?
fi
: y
n
sr# -r
e -
CS-;
>■;; ;
-.
a>vsi*.
; p
Ls
Zt<
'
sssm
■
\
W
\;
\
&
\
\
fcv
k‘i
I
i
r^'iS
5
k
\
VS:
s>X
NS
m
c
3
> •
if
m
m
m
X-
_■. ■*.
■■■
\N
\XX%\;p '■• ' ' \
\ \.Vv '-\ - \. V,
\y
\\Y' ; v-'
.-. y\ \ '\
sx-\>.
Gonopal Jojfvo
Commander-in Chief
of {ho French Army
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
'"THE above reproduced portrait drawing The
Army, is one of a senes o w reproduced on the finest art paper,
* series, specially drawn for us by W. Jardme, have pee <=p bcin? entirely free
raist*ss;-' f “ *£ ~>£w“
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., Bromley House, Kent Street, S ; dncy, N.S. .
.
L "W r —j
*»■*»*■"»■**■** ;
* ’1 *■ *£< > '* g., H miml-iliii *T W .tmemrnmM


THE UTILITY
SPORT-SHIRT
FOR ANY-TIME WEAR.
The n-.es r convenient Shirt yes introdoced, a special
feature being: the adaptable cellar. Can be wore three
njs: Is:, button up: iai. medium »eV%r; 3rd.
open to middle button. This Shin is
THE IDEAL OF COMFORT
AND SMARTNESS
Toe car wear :: to fcosiress. Spons. Camping, any
time, anywhere. Made in Wh;te mercerised cotter
' ' ' • •' ' Or;.:: • ;
Pos: Free to ary part of Australia.
Price 5 6
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
the mail-order house for men
\c-le oar
only Addnr-i:
Elizabeth Street.
MELBOURNE.
l&e insert picture sfeQir> ihe coLLir
button up for evenr-tiay wear.
v ->
w
x IL
: ~*T
\
■
/7.
m
Obtainable ill Chemists and Stores
SOAPKO
It Surpasses Soab.
Toilet and Motor In
TABLETS.
Household in BARS
SOAPKO CLEANSER 'SSIS&?'J^Sf.
ALL PURELY ALyIKAT.I Ay M AXUK AI.TI~TIK
SOAPKA PROP'Y. Ui Hi, 6.P.0., Adel.id,.
-
:
Px *
v - -■*>
I *
1
m
v
«
Df B. Allen's USA
fliSci'CAN
VVA \ ,N ( I *!* HAIR
~ STAIN.
fj\
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Nick Bottom": Can any Abo. brother
truthfully say that he has seen a laughing Jack kill
a venomous snake ? I have knocked about the bush
for years, and have frequently seen the bush humor-
ist juggling with snakes, but they have always been
of the non-venomous variety. A pair of Jacks made
a nest in a hollow tree near my university last
year, ar.d one day provided a morning's Xature-study
for the youngsters. The old man had caught a
green tree-snake, and having killed it tried to trans-
port it to the nest. After several ineffectual attempts
to rise with it from where he killed it (about 50ft.
from the butt of the tree) he dragged it farther
away in order to get a longer fly at it. It was no
go. however, so he called Mis. Jack to the rescue.
They then tore the snake in halves and bore it off
in triumph. Talk about perseverance and resource-
fulness ! Brace's spider is a fool to our Jackaburra.
Incidentally, I have seen small birds, frogs and rats
taken to the nest by the parent birds, and one day
I had hard work to persuade an irate farmer to
refrain from shooting our old friends on account of
a visit they had paid to his poultry yard.
WASTE OF A WORD.
ARTIST: "Little thing I dashed off the other day. 'Study in Blue.' I call it."
VISITOR: "Don't you think just “Blue Study' would be enough!"
• Flinderino" : 0.K.. in North Queensland,
takes first prize as the Australian township possessing
the shortest name, but the cake goes to Vic. for the
read with the stumpiest title—the L.L_ road, a
much-used highway in the fruit-growing district of
R ; nsrwood. The LL commences at Vermont, some
U: miles east of Melbourne, zig-zags down to and
crosses the Pan-ienong Creek, ther. climbs to the
foot of the Ranee near K -ntJre Gully. It was
named after Dr. L. L. Smith, who used to own
oo siderable ...reage thereabouts.
“Billy T.”: It has not occurred to our
indigenous aristocracy in general to grow their own
family trees, but I have met one proud mall who
had his growing in his own backyard. As a youth
1 was one of a party prospecting for coal in the
Gippsland hills, at a time when a cocksure M.P.
had offered through the Argus to eat all the inflam-
mable coal Victoria could produce. Winton, the
man with the tree, lived in a pleasant mountain
retreat in the vicinity of one of our camps. He
showed me his curiosity. It was a neat thing in
scientific forestry. His father and mother were
represented by. a double butt on which their names
were neatly- inscribed. Two protruding roots bore
the names of his maternal and paternal grandparents.
The two big limbs into which the tree had been
taught to branch bore the names of Winton and his
wife, and there were minor branches for each child,
girls on the wife's side, boys on Winton's limb, all
named and bearing true dates. “See that twig?"
said Winton, pointing to a sprout from Horace
M inton, jun. "I grafted that on two months ago.
It’s my first grandchild.” I am told the tree was
perfectly- kept up to the time of the old man's death
and is still a curiosity of the district.
« . » * *
“Snell": The old Hand aud Band in the
course of many years had poured from her puddlers
a huge paddock of white pipeclay, eight or 10 feet
feet deep in places, and for some time after the
mine was shut down this remained a sort of quick-
sand of slurry in which many sheep and an occasional
cow were engulfed. One night Tom Irons, coming
home from the Drovers' Arms, choke-full and hilari-
ous. took the short cut across the pipeclay, and,
striking a spot where the treacherous crust had
been softened by recent rains, went through. He
made a great fight, but the hugging, slobbering
pipeclay got him, and, when daylight did appear,
that part of Tom still visit le above the surface had
scarcely strength enough to call louder than an
adolescent sparrow. They had to timber a little
shaft round Irons to get hint out. and when they
succeeded, Brother Practer said: "Ehh you, this’ll
be a lesson to 'ee to cast away from ’ee the evil
drink.” "I dunno, I dunno." whispered Tom feebly,
"but first thing when I get about I'm goin' to learn
to swim.”
* * * *
“Werrimee": The strangest wild bee*s-nest
I've come across I met when returning to the Rich-
mond from the lower Clarence (X.S.W.). We camped
a night at Gibberagee. the site of an old-time sheep
station. W hile gathering wood I noticed traces of
honeycomb in the half of a hollow limb lying on the
ground, and looking up saw great flakes of comb
under the other half of the limb on the tree. It had
been split down to within a few feet of the trank in
a storm that had passed probably months before. The
bees had continued to work on and now the comb
heng a foot below the wood. The only thing in the
shape of an implement we possessed was a rifle, so
we tried shooting it. A bullet through the wax
brought down a trickle of the honey, then a charge
of pebbles dislodged a whole side of comb. I passed
that strange sugar bag again some months afterwards,
and the bees were working as before.
"S.W .S.": One of the company in the bar
paused half-way down his beer to inquire what had
happened to ‘“Old Peter." Peter had been off sider
at the pub. and eeneral nuisance to the community.
The fact was elicited that Peter had been sentenced
to two months in Mndgee Gaol. "'Strath:" was
the general comment. Then he of the snakeskin
belt raised his half-empty glass to the company.
Ere sto Peter, blokes We ll miss the poor obi
cow, but. Mime,” he added tenderly, “kc'U he
evmim* out with the rattler.'’
IN THE TOWSNSHIP.
SQUATTER ( recognising an article with his name boldly written thereon): “Where did
you get that shirt. Tilly!”
TILLY: "You Missus bin gib it. Them shearer pfellcrs tink it plurry funny, don't they!”
“Merrigal”: It is a good, all-round tree,
all the same, though nobody takes much notice of it.
the spotted or leopard tree ( Flindertia maculosa ),
known in Bananaland as the prickly pine. It run-
up to 40ft. and accumulates a girth of about ISin.
The timber, which is of a bright yellow and tough,
unlike most other timbers of the Western Plains, is
very elastic, and is used for shingles, staves, pick
handles, poles and shafts of buggies, etc. It is also a
champion tucker vegetable in droughty spells, for
stock not only devour the foliage but also relish the
twigs up to the size of a goose quill. In the summer
time it sweats a clear amber-colored gum reminiscent
of good-quality gum arabic. This has a pleasant
taste to Binghi and is one of the bushman's remedies
for disturbed innards.
“Verdad": I?c the alleged Australian habit
of leaning against a verandah post. The South
American knows a better trick. The most common
type of chair, in those parts where they make their
own. is a very strong square-seated piece of car-
pentry. The four legs are connected by cross-bars
quite near the ground, and the scat and back are
covered with raw-hide or leather. It is a most
uncomfortable thing to sit on in the ordinary wav.
but. used in the South American style, quite sat-
isfactory. The chair is placed in front of the
house, and tilted back against the wall. The mud
walls of most houses are scored where the chairs
touch them. The cross-bar makes a comfortable
rest for the feet, and on this perch the S, American
smokes and spits by the hour.
* * * *
"John M.": "Barcoo" (B. 4/11/’l5) asks
if anyone knows anything about the black-headed
snake of North Queensland, and if he is venomous. I
know a little about that snake. He is non-venomous,
very beautiful, easily tamed, and one cf the best-
tempered serpents I have ever met- He grows very-
big. I've had one eight feet long, and heard of
others much longer. His favorite food is frill-necked
lizards, but how he manages to catch them bears me.
as the frill-neck is very quick, and the “tiger" fas
he is called) is rather slow in his movements except
when be is near enough to strike. Then, like all non-
venomous snakes, he is like a flash. The blacks about
here call him "cotha-cooer.” which means "head
black," and an old Binghi told me one dav "how
cotha-cooer got a black head first time," This way :
"Long time ago. good while, before tnikolo [white
people] come up. old-man cotha-cooer canto longa
hole. Cotha-cooer lazy fellow, don't like too much
hot. One day, close up dinner time, he poke his head
out link way, look all about, and he say Kari [the
sun] too [bad word] hot.' Then Kari bin hear bin:
and think that cotha-cooer too cheeky, ami make
Vungulla [the cloud] throw black shadow on that
fella head, and mak» it stop there all the time
That why Murri [black people] bin call him cotha-
cooer."
“ Outcast": The Papuan has a complete
scale of insignia as rewards for killing. About Port
Moresby he can. if he has kill'd his man, wear horn-
bills' beaks, or plumes of cockatoos' feathers, or certain
crotons, or paint his house-posts red, or make certain
tattoo marks on his body. L'p on the Mambare River
a cuscus tail worn in the armlets is a sure sign
that you've outed someone. If you've managed to
kill your enemy's dog you are permitted to rattle
your lime-stick on the edge of the lynepot when
chewing betel; if the dog escapes you must eat your
betel quietly. When you kill a man and burn his
house you can stick a bunch of fowls’ feathers on
NOTICED IT HIMSELF.
MEDICAL OFFICER: "Oh. yes. plenty of emi-
nent men serring at the Front now."
BILL: "My oath! Why. there's two blokes in
OUR company what useter play for
Carlton."
■ v#ur spear and flash it around at feasts. Up in the
bush when you kill a woman you can sport a croton
over your right ear or a hibiscus bloom in vour
hair. I don t krow of any (articular form of Iron
" s baby-stiller, so the Papuan has still some-
thing to learn in savagery from the Hun.
(Continued on pa?e 24J
THE SMASH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wowser broke the festive bars —
We plainly heard the fearful crash.
The pieces flew in splintered stars.
And instantly all things went smash;
But Robinson and Jones and I
Sit near where throbbing waters sigh.
And all the world is not yet dry !
The broken glass shines in the sea.
Just where the angry wowser hurled
The scattered bottles vengefully;
But still there's liquor in the world.
For Robinson and I and Jones
Drink merrily on mossy stones.
And sing our songs in cheerful tones.
That awful din at midnight's hour—
The crash and bang of breaking things,
As, hurled by some colossal power,
They- darted out as if on wings—
Was like a hundred brassy bands.
'Twas lucky that those mighty hands
Hurled ws no further than the sands!
Let wowsers smash whate'er they will.
There still are bottles on the shore;
And, as we make them empty, still.
We turn and find a couple more.
So Robinson and Jones and I
Sit where the throbbing waters sigh
Since all the world is not vet drv ;
N.s.w
HAMER.


Every Nerve Sufferer
Should Read This.
Victory for
Hean's Tonic Nerve Nuts
over Foreign Preparations
When you use HEAN’S TONIC NERVE
NUTS you are not only doing a wise thing for
your own health's sake —you are helping an
Australian industry.
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS are
manufactured in Sydney. The compounding is
done by Australian chemists, the bottles are
made by Australian craftsmen, and Australian
labor is employed to do the necessary printing,
labelling and packing.
The sentiment of loyalty to Australia would of
itself be insufficient, where your health is con-
cerned, to justify claim to your support.
Over 20 years’ experience as a retail and dis-
pensing chemist has convinced me that there is
no finer combination of medicinal ingredients for
nerve ailments than HEAN’S TONIC
NERVE NUTS.
m
v'-’
gfn
3lr>
II
"S>)
•A
w:.*:
%
\ : .V , ,V:*
'■ Vv
r jiV; ?
Mv opinion has been amply endorsed by many prominent citizens, who have used them for
nervous troubles such as headaches, neuralgia, backache, brain fag, nervous breakdown, etc.
The superiority of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS over imported preparations is
told in no uncertain way by Miss L. Collins, of Coogee, whose letter should be read by everyone
who suffers from “Nerves.”
Coogee, Sydney, 3rd January, 191(5.
Mr. G. W. Hean, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, Some time ago, owing to overwork, 1 became a nervous wreck. Insom-
nia supervened, and in spite of the best medical attention I was unable to sleep or
to recover my strength. I bad tried a well-known high-priced foreign preparation,
but even it failed to effect a cure. Fortunately for me. a friend presented me with a
nliial of your Nerve Nuts, and, as nothing could make me any worse. I took them.
I was astonished to discover that I soon felt somewhat better. My ever-present fear
bewail to leave me, and 1 had intervals during which existence became bearable. And
then I slept. That was the beginning of my recovery. I took more Nerve Nuts, and
after m.v second bottle I can proudly say that I am completely restored to health and
fear nothing on earth. Yours gratefully, L. COLLINS.
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS cost 3f= per bottle,
or six bottles for 17(3.
If vour chemist or store cannot supply them fill in the attached coupon, send with payment,
and your order will be filled per return mail.
Mr. G. W. HE AN, Chemist,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Enclosed you will find three shillings, for which please
NERVE NUTS, as advertised in The BttIiEETIN.
(State whether Mr., Mrs., or
send me a bottle of HEAN’S TONIC
Miss.)
Name ....
Occupation
Address ..
Start the New Year Right.
v - .....
QUICKEN YOUR SERVICE.
MODERN Stoi *es cannot afford to have
aisles crowded with impatient customers.
People demand quick service. T hey do
not excuse old methods.
With National. receipt-printing registers
change is made instantly. There is no
waiting for money to return from some
distant part of the store. There are none
of the old delays or mistakes.
Your customers are satisfied, your
assistants can sell more goods, and YOU
CAN MAKE MORE MONEY.
The National Cash Register Company
of Australasia Ltd.,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
“Nothing” Suits and Tussora Shirts
at THE LEVIATHAN
. **
*
i
;*
ll\
W
Ss,
“Nothing” Suits have a cool sound and a
cool 100k —the very name is suggestive of
lightness and comfort in clothing.
In Northern parts they have worn light
Summer Suits for years, and we Southerners
are now treating ourselves to the same
sensible ideas in comfort and coolness.
“Nothing” Suits are tailor made from
Tussorette —a tough but silky mercerised
cotton with a similar appearance as Tussore
Silk. Tussorette washes perfectly. It does
not shrink.
You can be cool and dressy this Summer
in a “Nothing” Suit. Order your size by
Tost. State chest, waist and inside-leg
measures.
Ready
to Wear
27/6
Freight
Paid
also 35/-, made to measure. Patterns and
measurement-forms free. W e guarantee
satisfaction, or money back.
Let us make you a Tussora Shirt to wear with the “Nothing”
Suit. We’ll include a collar to match.
“Tussora” looks just like Tussore Silk —but it wears better by
far. It has a rich, silky lustre which remains after repeated
washing. r
You can have a choice of two styles of cuffs—soft gauntlet, or
wristbands to button —and three styles of collars —detached soft
double —detached tennis —or attached tennis.
State size of neckband or collar when ordering.
Post Free
619
Collar to Match
AT/I AH
J&r ~fljLL VALUE IM ttALE ATTIRE
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets,
Melbourne
IIPIIBIIiBIBBi
THERE'S A LOT OF MUSIC
on REGAL Ft# cords you would
delight to have —music for every
mood and every occasion. Every
months list proves that
REGALS give better value ■
better music —better records than
any at the prjce. Ask your dealer
to play you the new REGALS.
MUM
B
Here are a few "Stare” from the Regal Catalogue:
MARIE LLOYD GERTIE GITANA S J * JJu'o mam
ELLA SHIELDS DAISY DORMER MARK
ALEX. PRINCE NEIL KENYON HARRY WELDON
SCOTS GUARDS BAND and SILVER STARS BAND
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth. Royal Arcade. x
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & AlWn Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St,
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


room
UTERES
Duval g Co.
Q C-ist-St..
SYDNEY
*75 Mms Street.
MEIBOM SHE
4 &e St
SEiSSA<«E.
CORNELL LTI,
ADELAIDE.
A- C. McCULCM,
pant
Ec>; is rt-i Lm| Em
I"E _S
-FOwSSCO S-S5
Phillips* Ormoiiif Inc. Pn??v. Ltd.
I7QUEE >» S T
The BLACK OPAL STORE.
OPALS. PEARLS. SAPP MIKES.
Specialty Australian Gems
If Miritt Strrs:. Htk Puk, Syiny.
E. F. MMHni r.cswciT »”3xS* Cc±s
OteC aCLzes. PW*;ET3«.
Buy Direct from the Manufacturer,
and Save 25 Per Cent.
& i* Giivv Kii «r Bex Oa2- Fair
r: *: " "** ** At^tooiaa
n # ** « l*e*l CVwrr Beec. wi*k mi
ae^*** w * 4 Fran* ,'c a A: :Jsi price
If! 6 v'arruf? h i—;; * Btvs Yaise
;x riw CV'msßestWYa^Si.
Semi TtwUj fvxr Full Illustrated
i'jMuKxsue.
HV. HARRIS,
McKean Street. N. Fiurvy.
... MELBOURNE.
A-J-I fr ,r, :l
Tai-a. fi ;
“The Hoofer” : I can’t agree with “S. S
Severn” that most Papuan villages own at least om
albino. I think that that writer is confusing half
castes with the utterly repulsive albinos, whose skit
is mottled-pink, with white eyelashes. Hula village
had several of them last time I visited it, but they
bore no resemblance to half-castes. A European and
Papuan alliance produces a pale, saffron-tinted heins
whose physiognomy tends mostly to the white father's
side. I could never contemplate the albinos without
feeling squeamish, and others have told me that they
were affected in like manner. The natives could not
account for these freaks to me, nor for the her-
maphrodites of Hula and Kerepuna. The London
Missionary man stationed there five years ago wrongly
blamed some earlier European visitors of aristocratic
lineage for the albinos, and tried to found a Social
Purity League amongst the amorous, goo-goo-eyed
Magdalenes of Hula and Kerepuna. His intentions
were good, but he had been delayed too long.
» » * »
‘Tmuna": The Papuans have strange
methods of showing their grief for the departed. In
certain districts, for instance, amongst the Orakawas
on the Mamba re River, it is the custom of the males
to remove joints of the third and fourth fingers on
the decease of a relation. The values of kin are of
interest: thus, for a sister the first joint of the
fourth finger is removed, for a brother two joints of
this finger, for a mother the first joint of the third
finger, for a father two joints of this digit. In the
case of a wife no mutilation takes place. As one
boy explained: ‘'S'pose woman belong me he die. no
matter cut him off finger. Get him 'nother one.”
The customary black clothes of mourning are found
throughout Papua, charcoal ami soot taking the place
of crape, etc. In many cases this remains smeared
over the body for a whole yam season or year.
Other natives abstain from all kinds of flesh food
for 12 moons after the decease of a father or mother.
• * » *
“Rag”: “W.C.M.” (B. IS/11/T5) says
“no other place in the world can show such variety
ami splendor of native flora as Queensland.” He has.
it is very evident, never wandered afield in the
Golden West. Away out on the "desert” plains,
where the sky weeps only once or twice a year, I
have ridden on camelback for days over a knee-deep
carpet woven of everlasting daisies of every imagin-
able hue, and crimson, velvet-textured “kangaroo-
paws.’’ and exqusite vermilion-bodied Sturt pea,
ami wild hop and the fragrant boronia. and scores of
other flowers which 1 do not know by name. For
miles ami miles whichever way one looked the land
was ekuhed with gorgeous blossoms, waving and
swaying to the whims of the wind, and changing in
pattern continuously as though the ground was one
vast kaleidoscope. 1 don't want to go to the
West, but if it's flowers we're after that's where
we've got to head for.
* » * *
“Condaniine”: A good Australian that
would stand inspection in these times of dear meat
is :hi sc ,-ub wallaby. Many families in South Queens-
land have this year removed beef from the menu and
inserted wallaby, and in ordinary years numbers of
people eat the native for a change. Its flavor is a
bit rich for sonn palates, but minced and fried it is
a dish that a few of the fugitive ntenarehs of Europe
might enjoy. Close to the western line there are
millions of the little beasts. They weigh on an average
about 151 b.. ana it' there were a sure market they
could be crated profitably at 21d. per lb. In most
years the skin is worth about Is. 3d . so there seems
to be a chance for a freering works to get busy.
THE PACE WAS TOO WARM.
SEAR OLD LADY: "But why. m y man, didn't
yam iollow some trade?”
RAD OLD CADGER: "I did. man. but I had
[?] and mrer eanght up with it."
' BagMii*: References to nbo. montiehs
recall king Toeueuy . of Carr's Creek (N.S.WX. who
was at Grafton to receive aad fires shake the haasl of
ex-Gorernor Car:: area. Tommy said: "Yc<i kirg down
Sydney; me king up here Gib it pound." Caring-
re - : - C--V re V. .
half-sovereign, and Sir Robert Dnt. on the hat of
John See. gave him half a crown. As Tommy put
it: "Lord Caricgto* bo, ; gery: Lord Jersey pretty
good; Lard Duf no pfcmj g.vd a; ilk’*
SOLOMON—WITH A QUALIFICATION.
THE PARSON: “I want a cloth-bound copy of Joseph Hooking's All Hen are Liars.’ ”
THE BOOKSELLER (to assistant): “James, all men are liars —in cloth."
"Fliuderiuo" : The scrub tick does not
confine its attentions to land birds. One day when
we were off Lucinda Point (N.Q.) a seagull iell dis-
abled on the deck of our dreadnought, the little Lass
o' Cowrie. The ship's cat grabbed the bird, but
dropped it immediately on receiving a broad hint
from a belaying pin. Later, the mate, who hap-
pened to be a student of natural history—he kept
guinea-pigs when a boy—conducted a post mortem
on the gull, and after he had given evidence we
found that the primary cause of the bird s demise
wss the scrub tick found tightly attached to the
upper part of one of the deceased's legs. We hanged
the tick on the yard-arm.
* * * *
"Barcoo": To get away from the cranky
born-en-the-teat marsupial argument. I am satisfied
the wallaroo is no gentleman. He is only a podgy,
ungainly member of the kargaroo family. Lately I
had him under observation-—3O or 40 feet
away—through the opening of my tent. Coming to
his Kish pub. which had no opposition for miles,
tor his moonihret beer, I fraud hint grunting, dis-
sans&fd and uiaDcuhh in his cups, rushing up and
down the trough and upsetting his pals' beer. He
does not drink like one of nature's gentlemen, but
Sines every other chap's pint sweeter than his own;
and his w ay of lapping with the tongue when absorb-
ing hts liquor makes as much sound and hiss as a
German dealing out kultur to soup.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
"E.J.M. Jack \ ane told me this in ex-
planation of why he took to the professioß of busts -
ranging. At Long Swamp, near Caioola sNS.b.i.
trs shanty-keeper ha: got in a big stqjply of grog
for the annual race meeting, and some of the bush
lads, for a hri. decided to raid the premises and
sample the goods. So they gleefully blacked them-
ss-vss with burned eeck on the assumption that the
;ic would te put down to abos.. rushed the bar,
locked the boss and the missus in a room and pro-
ceeded to get a lily's star: on the race crowd When
they let the publican out he Cogged all the way to
Bathurst arc brought back a trooper. The lirtsr
sccr tourd out what had happened arc got the canes
of the party. Vane and Mick Bourse belted aad took
a kt o: catching. That set A'atse on the road. His
next appearance was holding Jack O'Menlly's h:rse
at the stivSringvgp of Stapleton's score at Trunkey.
Alter two years of btishrangieg \ are serreriered
ar.>! was tried at Bathurst, where he was presented
wuh 4} years' imprisonment—throe lots of 1* acsl
' °f 15 years. After sttritg Jt? years v~d sere*
months at Oarfinghust he was released. In tre
gac>: he bad been aught the trade of tfnwnmn
an-i had bo d fro- lty in gectirg ho-irest vakker on
**» iaafetiHs of 3t Mary 's bilk * il. j
w; he's be« dead'*e»
veaos.
“Moana”: Know a man who has a duck
farm close to the seashore, and who lately has been
worried by the mysterious disappearance of eggs
from nests. Recently he lay in wait with a gun
and caught the culprit—a seagull After a few
evolutions the bird dived to where there was a nest,
gripped an egg in its claws, flew across to the beach,
and at a height of 30ft. or 40ft. let go. Then the
bird descended and began breakfast. This perform-
ance was repeated several times until the duck-
farmer saw bankruptcy coming and outed the gull
with a dose of shot.
. A ttolin with a curious prenn
•
- • • • :: ‘ " : •• •
o«we pun of a rest in the -rhare of the MXoriow- Te
Kocti. A cas caused of M idtswwa. W>{
: :rgrom « aw«r tasker of fiddles. saw possibilities
“ *** asc «Mde it 4 musical ie-
H * £ so the big Frisco Exhibition,
--ere it ns atstityvi re* 4 tine: ard when it caste
oaca recently the owrer ktrded the thrnp over to
lx * ****** se * *** SreretaryM ,** { rather,
i I, rcf eWef itstwrer
Cx kL..L. scsccxs. arc iaew mere aAc: the brew,
taee taaa saost peepie.
“V.”: The luck of drunks! Myself and
mate, coming home off afternoon shift in a North-
West (W.A.) mining camp one cold night (and it
can be cold there in winter, though two degrees
inside the tropics), called at a pub to get a drink
There was a corrugated-iron billiard-room in course
of erection and corrugated iron lying about every-
where. Hearing a terrible rumpus among the litter
we went to investigate, and found a very drunk
drunk wrestling sheets of iron on to himself. He
war fully satisfied that they were blankets. Tried
to bring him to, but it was no use. He spent the
night there. At 3 a.m. a horse came and stood
on the iron, and the unfinished billiard room fell on
it by reason of a storm, but both missed him. He
didn’t even catch cold, and in the morning he found
2s. 6d. among the ruins.
* * * *
The lighthouse-keepers at Cape Borda
(S.A.) report that the reserve on Kangaroo Island is
growing mallee fowl satisfactorily. Two pairs of the
nearlv-extinct bird were taken to the island four
years ago, and now there are specimens of all sizes
to be seen. Snakes and iguanas are about their only
enemies, the deadly fox having been kept off the
island so far.
• -• • .
“Orpheus”: It occurred during the burial
of a prisoner in one of the gaols here in Papua.
When the deceased was laid in his grave, a friend
(also a prisoner) leaned over into the hole and
addressed the remains:—•
Magala, Mag-ala, Magala! When vou get to the
place of the dead, and the dead men ask vou who
you are and whence you come, tell them that vou
are Magala. Tell .them that you offended the Gov-
ernment and that you were put into gaol. Tell
them that you died in the gaol, and not in your
own village. The. dead men will ask you why you
come without your necklace, your clubs and your
spear, and without your face “painted. Tell them
that if you had died in your village all these
things we would have done for you. And sav that
you died at the Government place, and these things
we could not do. And the dead men will hear you
and know.
Magala was then covered up and gi-’n a chance to
explain the situation. Foolish? Jusi hink of some
of the things done by white men.
* * * •
“Ess”: The most familiar night howls in
the bush are those of the dingo, the mopoke and
the stone curlew or stoDe plover. The dingo’s con-
tribution is always a melancholy discourse; the call
o? the mopeke is sweet, haunting and far-reaching;
the powerful owl (or eagle owl) and the teringing
(owlet nightjar) between them awake weird fancies;
but nothing plays on the emotions so much as the
cry of the stone c-urlew. At one moment it is clear
and sharp; then it is drawn out into a long, low
wail; and, again, it echoes through the timber in
wild, piercing screams Usually one bird calls at
a time: but occasionally a number will deputation-
ise simultaneously. The powerful owl, whose
screeches often rise to an alarming outcry, is the
largest of Australian owls, being 24 inches long.
Its prevailing color is brown with whitish marks,
and its prevailing yell enlivens the Dorrigo scrubs,
other parts of Eastern Australia, S-A. and the North-
ern Territory. The Australian curlew (sea curlew)
is only heard in the summer months, as it spends
the rest of the year in Siberia and Northern Europe.
The koeL a glassy, greenish-black cuckoo, sends forth
its loud whistling c-ail day and night; so also do
the sweet-voiced Australian cuckoo, the bronze
cuckoo and the pallid cuckoo, a querulous, olive-
browa bird whose piercing whistle is familiar in the
south from September to February, after which
month it seeas the warmer Queensland clime. The
bush lark, which pours forth its delightful lav in
moonlit hours, is rare. The habitat of the species is
AN OTHER MISCARRIAGE OF
JUSTICE.
THE LARCE BLOKE: "I called the slop a
cross between [?] jim-jam and a
tora-rat, abd the blocky Beak fined me
thirty bob the abasice language.”
THE S MALL DITTO: "Rotten, mint it: Had
mo edaeati on. half these Beaks!”
am! WJL Vk'ts the creek the
5 ' - '' ~ ' • wink rig <£>»asd the boaibonk shout
rgs a,: raght; ire -roea the grass comes a
pcvc.:.ir wksstti*gr SM«d, varied 4; times by a :me-
; >tf ' SvXix oi aranst. 1; is the voice oi the myr-
« ***** «*:t»kcec. ami it is so load in the
"■'■* tbit :; eas a&,re than oeue stampeded eattle
c 5 canto.
OUR NATIVE WEAPON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dey called me from da push awav,
Dey put me in a khaki suit,
they drilled me all da Weedin' dav,
Acd I was mute.
Iky stuck a rifle in me "and.
An tried to make me unnerstami
Da way to sheet.
Gretu ies dey shoved into me fist;
A trench it is me daily hark ;
I done me best, an’ put 4 twist
Acrast da Turk.
But iu me cart I know more quick.
More certain, too. a Brunswick brick
Would do da work.
An' 'ere stuck in a drain or 'oie.
With Abduls jist acreet the wav,
For all da bloomin' time I bow!.
Bet. spare use day,
I -ocg to bring da push up quick.
’- v * ‘fa "dukies'’ full of brick
Come inter piay.
I Bnrc ii banks past an' done
lbs gooi 'ari-Briirswicks used to wic,
A' this 'ere tgohiT w!t a gun
Is jist a sic.
Give us our rarive weapon sc,
An' let us pet it to da foe,
-An' brick him in!
TKTOU4.
BILLY T.


Model 83
1916
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Five-seater Touring Car, £325
Sing'le-seater Car, £315
\
We Build More Cars of This Size
Than Any Producer in the World
We build many thousands more
Overlands than any other producer builds
of any other car of anywhere near its size.
This means economy in production
through vast buying power and specialised
manufacturing methods.
When you buy an Overland you get the
advantage of these economies.
That is why you get in an Overland the
greatest motor-car value ever offered in all
the world.
In no other motor-car at anywhere near
its price can you get even a majority of the
following advantages, which are all combined
o O 7
in this newest Overland.
It has an easy operating clutch; a 1 young
girl can operate it with ease.
It has magneto ignition-—certain \ and
always uniform. f
It has conveniences—control is easy - and
natural. \
• . 1
Electric starting button is in the toe-board. \
Electric switches for magneto, lights and
signal are conveniently arranged on the
steering column.
It has comfort —deep, inviting upholstery
and extra long underslung rear springs—
real riding comfort.
It has beauty —a long, low, streamline
body with simple, symmetrical, clean-cut lines.
But you should see this car and ride in it.
Let us demonstrate its sterling qualities.
Silent, Powerful Motor.
Instrument Board on Cowl Dash.
Deep, high-backed Seats.
Tonneau, long and wide.
Genuine Leather Upholstery, deep and
soft.
Windshield, rain-vision, ventilating type,
built-in.
Crowned fenders.
Electric starter —Electric lights.
HIGH-TENSION MAGNETO IGNITION.
Thermo-Syphon cooling.
SPECIFICATIONS :
Five-bearing crankshaft.
Rear axle, floating type.
Springs, rear, % elliptic, extra long,
underslung.
Wheelbase 106 inches (2.69 m.).
Large tyres, 33in. x 4in. oversize.
Beautiful dark-green body, with ivory
striping.
Nickel and aluminium trimmings.
Demountable, detachable rims—one
extra.
Right-hand steering—centre levers.
Electric switches on steering column.
Body, streamline, with one-piece cowl.
Electric engine starter and generator,
electric head, rear and dash lamps and
headlight dimmers. Storage battery.
One-man mohair hood and hood cover;
magnetic speedometer; electric horn;
rug rail; foot-rest; tyre carrier in
rear; extra demountable rim; full set
of tools; tyre repair kit; jack and
pump.
AUSTRALIA :
E. G. EAGER & SON LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
THE CO-OPERATIVE MOTOR SOCIETY LTD., 4! Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MURRAY A UNGER LTD., 60 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WITTMAN MOTOR SUPPLY CO., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
NEW ZEALAND:
HATRICK & CO., Wellington and Wanganui.
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOCIATION, Christchurch.
" s. -
Willy s-Overland Company, Toledo, GM
Full information on request to any of the abovementioned Dealers .


m
'-C
8^
n
Ribbon
The Beer of Quality
Teabdel <£ L/ttley
60/e Contro///ng Agents for Aostra/as/a
7 fiAM/L rot/ SZ SYDHE r.
BLUE RJBBOULAGER /s obta/nab/e Everywhere
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
The Australia Hotel
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
The Management of the “Australia”
Hotel are gratified to state that, not-
withstanding the upset caused by the
recent fire they are able to announce
“business as usual.” The service in
the Grand Dining Room, on the
Balcony, and in the Winter Garden
is being conducted in the same style
that has made the “Australia” Hotel
so popular with its patrons, while the
arrangements for Private Dinners and
Suppers are working with their accus-
tomed satisfaction.
Throughout the holiday season
arrangements for Afternoon Teas will,
as usual, be carried out in the Winter
Garden, which has been running con-
tinuously throughout.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
*
*
<
£
V
*
Of-
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
" Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne
The Inky Way.
“Dalriada” : Melbourne Savage Club is
in mourning for its former president, Ed-
ward Holroyd, a miniature of whom,
resplendent in scarlet judge's robes, sits on
the library mantelpiece. His son Teddy,
yachtsman and sport, still keeps the family
name on the member's list. Twenty-five
years a member of Vic. Supreme Court
Bench, and SS years old when Death put
on the black cap, Holroyd. who in his salad
days wrote for the London press and nar-
rowly escaped being an editor, made a
scholarly judge and an ideal club president
no* only at the Savage but at the
Athenaeum. It was a generous sight —his
flowing beard at the king table on a Savage
smoke-night, as he pounded the huge brass
shell-case which served as a gong . and
secured order for some new and joyous item.
Different was the picture when the Maori-
land lifer. Butler, was sentenced. Froth-
ing at the mouth, his face a living maledic-
tion, the prisoner turned on his judge in a
startled court and cursed him, as MulvSney
hath it, “to make green turf crack.” Hol-
royd, a trifle pale, behaved wonderfully;
knowing it could do no good, he forbore to
bring the man to book for his contempt of
Court, and merely ordered his removal.
Good at tennis and billiards, he was a tough
boxer, and stood in the ring with Bendigo,
the Jew pugilist of old time. Teddy, his
son —otherwise “Mr. Spencer E. Holroyd”
-—was for some time judge’s associate to his
father and also his sparring partner. And
if by chance the associate handed up Exhibit
Z to ’Sonah in place of Exhibit A he
knew all about it when he put on the gloves
with dad next morning. The old man was
admired and loved, and many a Melbourne
crook has a soft spot in his heart for
“ ’Olyrc.d. ,T.” May he come to a just judg-
ment !
* * * *
“Quidam” on the virtues of bad cooking: —
An interesting bit of information, if it could be
accurately collected, which it can’t, would be the
precise value of indigestion as a producer of good
literature. Let the person of literary bent be in a
happy home, with a good cook for a wife and every-
thing comfortable and handy, and the chances are
that he puts on flesh, enjoys life, sleeps like a native
bear, and can’t scare up an idea worth writing
about. But let him take a billet out in the wild
bush, where he has to camp in a tent and cook his
own tucker and pick bulldog ants out of his pants,
and otherwise suffer much distress of body and mind,
and directly the effect of bad cooking begins to
exercise an influence on his sleeping ability
brilliant ideas begin to boil in his brain. And
it is the same when his wife and family go to the
city for a trip, and leave him in his sombre seclusion
to look after himself and the fowls and the cat
and the various other items that appear pleasant
but unobtrusive trifles when the hand that rocks the
cradle rules the establishment, but loom as gigantic
curses when the lord of creation takes on a
bit of lording unassisted. All is gloom and profanity
and broken crockery for a few days : then the mas-
culine culinary processes get in their work, and
tremendous overflows of genius pour on to paper and
(given luck with editors) are conveyed to an admir-
ing world. And the cause of it all, leaving on one
side the slight mental exhilaration caused by throw-
ing boots at the poultry and crockery at the cat,
is simply and solely indigestion caused by damnable
cooking. The worse the. indigestion the better the
literature. This doubtless accounts for the fact that
numbers of authors living precariously in a garret on
a daily.chop casually charred on a gas-stove turn out
such splendid work that they rise to world wide fame
and fortune, and then, when comfortably married and
removed from the atmosphere of bad company and
worse cooking that surrounded their struggling days,
and with beautiful fountain-pens and attractive type-
writers and every adjunct that an ambitious author
could wish, turn out stodgy, heavy stuff that nothing
but a world-wide reputation could sell at all. Then-
digestion was bad, their products good. Success has
incidentally brought in its train a good cook The
digestion is now good, and the literary results deplor-
able. The all-important problem is: How much
must a man sacrifice his stomach to benefit his brain?
* * * *
“Bhanavar”: Interesting changes have
just taken place in the Argus office. M il-
liam Adrian Brennan, chief of staff since
Campbell Jones left to join Sydney Sun,
has become a leader writer. He is suc-
ceeded as chief by Charles P. Smith, who,
graduating from the composing room to the
reporting staff, was sent, after doing the
Federal round- to represent the Argus in
Egypt. Gallipoli and the Balkans. He has
just returned after making good as a war
correspondent. After the troops left Egypt
to become Anzacs and w r in glory, Smith re-
turned for a brief space but was again
packed off to the Front, and managed to get
into the Gallipoli firing-line and the turbu-
lent Servian arena. It was in Servia that
quite by accident he met the sister of
Johnny Sandes, once of the Argus and now
of Sydney Telegraph. She was with the
Red Cross. Smith is ginger-haired and ener-
getic, and should be a marked success as
staff-leader when once he begins to put a
polish on the job. “Billy” Brennan is a
brother of Frank Brennan, M.11.R., and
started life as a civil servant. He joined
the Argus about 14 years ago, and worked
his way up to the top mainly owing to his
value as a political expert. He should
have been a leader-writer long ago, for in
his own vein there are few to touch him. if
only Argus traditions do not freeze the
genial current of his soul.
“P.X.”: The Yankee paper-mill, like so
many other Yankee mills, is having the time
of its life. The other day a tramn. the
Werribee. rolled into Maoriland with 3200
tons of good, unspoiled news-sheets aboard,
the output of one factory. Others are pouring
their stuff across the Pacific and collaring
trade that Scandinavia and England used
to have. In this line the little Jap isn't a
competitor; and what few feathers the
Yank manufacturer leaves to the poor
printer the shipowner plucks. Freights by
steamer now cost about as much as the
paper, and to escape some of the piracy the
printer who can wait is taking the risk with
sailing-vessels which bucket round the Horn
and may turn up or may be out for insur-
ance money. When the Werribee started to
unload Maoriland began to think once more
whether this paper-making wasn’t a job it
ought to be doing itself; and meantime the
foolish old Australian papers which have
been crying for Freetrade all their lives are
whimpering for mercy, and as they are not
getting it are threatening to co-operate and
save a little by cutting out the middleman.
This from one of the best clubs: —
By Gad, sir, you newspaper chaps deserve a good
hiding for vour' carelessness. I was going home in
the car the' other night and enjoying my war news
in comfort when a heading exploded before my eyes.
There it lav across the column like a corpse in a
barbed-wire entanglement—' '‘Every Fat Man Needed” !
I tell you my heart started to beat like a circus
drum and I had to let down the windows before I
could breathe. Then and only then did I see that
I had made a horrible mistake, the line being
“Every Fit Man Needed.” Confound you! of course
every fit man is needed, and if I had had my way
they would have been flogged to the Front long ago.
It makes me sick to have my car held up at every
street corner by able-bodied men who seem to resent
being shrieked' out of the way by my siren—the
brass and rubber one squeezed by the chauffeur.
The siren that I squeeze doesn’t shriek; but the
little woman resents just as fiercely as I do the
way these shirkers are avoiding the rec ruiting offices.
You ought to see some of the looks she gives the
insulting cad 6 when they won t get out of the way
and we’re in a hurry to get to supper.
Stirring item of news from the South: —
Our readers are favored through having in their
midst a thoroughly up-to-date undertaker, Mr. ,
of Street, who has a most up-to-date plant, is a
gentleman of long experience, and turns out the
best class of work at short notice. He has a large
stock of oak, pine, cedar and maple, and we trust
the public will favor him with their patronage, as
we feel sure they will receive satisfaction.
Get one of these matchless wooden overcoats
and dare the Devil to do his worst! But a
Maoriland rag went better than this. It
assured the local democracy that its
esteemed townsman Ghoulplanter made such
comfortable urns that there was likely to be
serious trouble at the Last Muster.
* * * *
“S.T.S.: What is the meaning of “bar-
ley”? Have come across it twice within a
week in Australian verse by Nettie Palmer
and C. J. Dennis. The lady uses it mostly
to rhyme with “Charlie,” but evidently in
the same sense as Dennis, as a kind of
saving appeal—“Pax.” “touch wood,” “You-
cannot-harm-me-now!” sort of idea. Where
has the term been in hiding? I can't find
anyone in these southern parts who has ever
heard of it, and Henley’s Slang Dictionary
is dumb on the subject.
* * * *
The great advantage of a single cable
press-service to Australia is that the sub-
editors are inspired to make variations which
history couldn't think of making for itself.
Thus Melbourne Herald says Andrew Car-
negie is giving £24,000 as a first donation to
the Belgian Relief Fund. The Argus raises
the alleged amount to £240,000. The Age
assures its little lot that the cash forwarded
is £2,400,000. The Bulletin’s own opinion,
based principally on the fact that the man’s
name is Andra, is that it was two and four-
pence.
SHAKING HANDS WITH HENRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now I met with Henry Lawson when the year was
near its end.
And he shot a brown fist at me, fpr he’s everybody’s
friend ;
Then he shook my hand with vigor, and he didn’t let
it SO, .
For he’s nothing if not cordial is this Henry we all
know.
He is very hard of hearing, so I shouted in his ear
That I hoped we’d have less trouble in the coming
glad New Year,
And he wrung my hand and nodded —and he wrung
my hand again,
For he never can start talking till he gets behind a
pen.
In between his fits of dreaming he with sudden joy
would choke
As he hinted he and someone had been photographed!
A joke
Which excelled all other follies, and I had to under-
stand,
For his glee was quite infectious as he shook me by
the hand.
It was silent in the office, it was lonely, it was late,
But the shadow that was Henry seemed to be
amused at Fate ;
If he’d tried to tell the story I the humor might
have missed,
But I knew he was delighted by the pressure of his
fist.
With the singer of good mateship and the brother-
hood of man
I shook hands for all Australia while the year s
last moments ran,
And it seemed to comfort Henry more than laurels
and brass bands
To be thinking of the old times, and (still at it!)
shaking hands.
1 have had some shakes with Henry since we met
eight years ago,
But the latest New Year shaking beat the whole
reunion show.
Life’s a joke, and well he knows it! Oh, he makes
his meaning clear
When he grips your hand and shakes it at the dying
of the year!
X.S.W.
KODAK.


B
R
I
T
I
S
H
M
A
D
E
- 5
4m
%
I
1a 1
s
m
tk\^\
m,
ng
\
ss
\vs
■ !... -.'
/://.
m
'll
m
mm
A
11
m
I
"N»
Sn
i
B
R
I
T
I
S
H
M
A
D
E
Better Light
Lighter Bills
guLffitaa
*
m
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia
(E.S.C.A.), Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
—Agents—
“Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock and Co., Ltd., Launceston; Oliver & Oliver, Ltd., MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort, and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
eally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
Hie mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA i* therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly Removes Skin Eruptions
ensuring
A CLEAR. COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable
Pimples, disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema
disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
Bottles 1/3 & 3/-
P.° r 42 years Sulpholine has been
the remedy for: —
Eruptions
Pimples
Redness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema.
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea.
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin
Specialists, J. Pepper & Co., Ltd., Ledford
Laboratories, London, S.E., and can be obtained
direct from them by post or from all chemists
and stores throughout the world.
Sulpholinequickly removesthe effects of Sunscorch
Ahead!
ing
4
.v,-. ')
V V
&
\ '' ■
K:
r£
/*• - •* It
%
>■<
rIS
Y
_— / /
.MB
is rapidly forging ahead of all other motor
spirits, for the discriminating motorist knows
that he obtains better results by the use of
"Plume."
Its advantages are: —
Easier Starting.
Better Acceleration.
Less Carbon Deposit.
A Sweeter-Running Engine.
More Mileage to the Gallon
than other Benzines.
Obtainable from all Garages and Stores
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
PILE PILLS
HAVE PERMANENTLY CURED.
Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. Have cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
MADE AND SOLD BY A. MURPHY, WOY
WOY, N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a course of 8
boxes for £l. All postage Free,
under plain cover.
On sale at all leading Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY


Solid Silver-mounted Manicure Set,
finest quality instruments, cut glass jar, 25/-
Engraved. 27 6.
Two Hobnail Cut Glass Toilet Bottles, Puff Jar and
\ aseline Pot, with richlr embossed solid * silver tops, in silk-lined
Morocco case, £2 5/-
$
• -
N;
mrrt
JL
Solid Silver-mounted Gent's Hair Brushes and
Cloth Brush, in silk-lined case. £2 15 -
HANDSOME
-TOILET CIFTS-
Delightful in appearance
and reasonable in price.
Solid Silver Handsomely Embossed “Empire*’
Design Brush. Mirror and Comb. £3/15/-
IVo brushes and Comb, £3/3/-.
Sterling Silver-mounted Shoe Hook
Glove Hook, highly burnished. 8 6
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
LC« 0 0
12jS*
jfc
SYDNEY
as«
«<
Solid Silver Handsomely Embossed “Empire”
Design Hair Brush and Comb, silver-drawn brietles,
in Morocco case, 30/-
-
Solid Silver-mounted Sewing Companion, com-
prising four articles, in »ilk-lined Morocco case, 15/6.
a srsw
sps£
Solid Silver Plain “Concave” Design Manicure
Set. finest quality instruments. £2 15. •
807-817 GEORGE ST
(Opp. Railway Station) SYDNEY
u
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking I.KVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
lsvala*M« to Prospector. 'liner. Geologist.
Eafineer an-i squatter.
> ' . - • •: ' ::. . ••
•; ' . . . - ;
Pri«fi I«ntc;x'tss. POSTED
22 6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.,
ISO-101 George Street. Brisbane.
op
7MI J PEN
vy Ar *.
&
Yn*
v
v.
c <^
«
V#
o
-.O
A
ro
f
&
°e,-
&
%
FOR “73?
DUPLICATING.
Ask Yoar Stationer or for a& Assorted Sample Bci —BRITISH Miie,
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter writ toot resoiratorv orcars mav
be suffering from-whecher Asthma. Hay
ff*«. Rose Cold, or ordinary Coos fa —you
w: l and in this famous remecy a restorative
jxrwer that is simply tmetr-tded
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
st Tims fr mM CirttssSs m' Szrrts
m£ A utrdcdi.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF XATt'RK ASP ILLCST RATED
UASKIAOE Lll'lDC. ' 'JSSnievi »-;a 50 «*-
t~v> ••?*. a*w W-S *1 ;:cr.. is 61 rested.
Lmutd -Ai. H: » roG'-tRKS. Is rested. Pbl. i «»»»■
irafk Sam Func, Is ML Xn> ftiumil Aw
of Bo.\-a«. aew **-treed ectroe. -*0 a
H;» w Paso*. Ist txsc. Hop to "Ust..!. Is. ' Mock
r..iS7«3A i rt_-« Iwfe 'ey Pe Fee. Is roeted.
T»e*srv*aS Cam is 6i_ AH £. .t*s.
Set Is 61 steo. jvsted. £ktir><> r-*
Hesse. s. Vt.vtsaux'. ss* Jt > * E ls'-:. Is. U.'-nv
&mOHK bom. It ywttl HwnsSmnmß
ras Maaoitr. Is 'X ‘ B3ii s sto >o Eiocv-
r- > sr. 'aiess iilu'ii. -s 61 swtiii, Rrsocs op r*-e
l> .-wa. X-.. w; n't R.in \»s Fi'ss R*»trcrs
(Stai hr Ukl OMrttinn CMnwrretuc.: «.
-•'N ' ' >
* jkslt»(rVtn»ii Ex?i.us*a. is&i Miemasj_>
F.-ius** Has JTS.VS. 15. ij.; tjdKis ..i Book a .
A» w.iss >f aFUet. IS. f AttestTn CS.S * I. l »*s.
It finni Tnnrrirtnm tp MmfkSNtr-
INIFjjnUT, li Tat TOKK. kr HuOMtt w : e*. IS.
Tsaras oi Pcrastcss an* Cams. JE 's. 5a e—- s
Sscksts. rose rrse. Is. Hit:. Mesa. Is 6a. H at»
K• • ' ' • -as. : v.u > S; «> :s :- I -e
I S:X Am.)IQEt3S GCI7S S ’.' V. S tSCS - - <
Is -Si. M. i*ts Fopenrat Taw>« Book of Firs
.ryeftoters >«r* Gttaie . sees Is; rose. Is 3ti.
Ke* P> Kivu «jciov' at F'-iCiXs. is tt
K*cautt. .'<• Tt Po»a»tTT—atliwuvi is
roscec. >o;os Book of ytww. 3s aMi
CtHKUfs fumAKini. 3s *i ,«wi Vrsnur
of Paa». Is id- Hsstokt of tss 800 F-asMbtssoos
t -7 a soaroe. I's. Peactcax ti. >iu
(tt E>«k BtSMUTK. is. > 6nsiT (Baaa-
ML Isa vir or Jir-irrsc. Ai vni Is -M.
fioo a>» Mr XsrKWJOK. Sc. Bkitcs fok -ai
Bsmss. *i. ek ato Facfs. Is Si. How to
X•'•<••s • - • - • .
Is Ai Tatosr if V o.n. Is 61. Fejcese
tn I'l'.'i, IX »»3 _ jssF-X \T«er- 11
H ' v •! •: s ' .s' >'rr
Ix-css arts Ouvs, Is mmHL Hots* Passttsw 03
Pa*iKss Is SI “tv’f F.-tut s st» .a Boraxes.
Me ic. ABsrtisto ftjnTWOs s 6cjk Is 61
%
n
$
ft
LLi
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
nttiCTCi
THE POPULAR ‘ PLAIN HOME T \LK **
Bi Dt E R FOOTE.
Cfcrcrres. 4>? l»4<
rr IS FKEZ FSOH TECHNICAL TEKiIS. «*i up
is :s «acs. Here *r* <a
■5W.* MW to At
“•- ««* C « A3C « ' i«i IVi ctor -
lierr f&ffVOM. Oarcere ire :* Ssw«*b^ : -Ves
est-i sr:;«js owewirif irarr:i«. wiicfe
rr" <rf -a—use. > r Baa or wea wfe, *,.* w 4 '? *£
JSrgr.s^ 3 «
-■•■■' ■ ■ r.-'.-':.\:‘,yr- _ , - - ; ..
' - " X • .V. . '
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
- tVKica ry. is CAKt- l*>ye.
FITUIIT, s.:.- -w.02 tail iirsdncns.
li rCISGaC. vj v» SSCI-TTS ASA H. T JC
*'t» it CitK. Is St Mirii-t .isrw >x Ai»
tt *s. Sclmsiss. Bbaxss. Gio-?—Tts-i. «k.. is 3d
■ns. H*w » ?*at t&aeaaud. is 3c.
ts.tr ititii wsnn is; pec is 3c. Citux s
xc. i * itYurwPtuc Is. Pussltsssisj
Juttstfsis*. Is Sc. It ;<u Ersicsm. Is. s:nrs
A eta v.iist r..i aa ?ar i. .Itaias. Is H-.'w ye
ItAS»T3IS*L Is Sc. M t-t futm SSB*T &TTS2. AS
Fccirar iis?'Ai. is wai PaaacK JLti-x. is
ac. Ist Wana s Ya .ht
Its 5s 0»s Cisjssna. Is Sc. Ss.tir?Jcs:sAt
??r .5 Je reseed Wizr'ia. L*>
!»:-l its. Is :-.- aanac. »woi iS3 t: errs. FrsL.tr
PfOLiSJBK 3L.55 ijsy. is aaeni. *sr. .-■■■- LtA* ijr
Fcsasiwaas. —ssersnens mi: aanmtaa Is: rose
Is ic. iiscnrxrrr 3lui aii?L* las'a, *s ic.
-5 rCSCcC tAKJU Xiij« H*»rs».va*
Cwun BwtturcK. is. Ur. opiWCV
*-“■£ *■ H:, i£^
iOH. C Ot*** V 54*53. :s
-"• «?> “ *«« £*"«,, s S
* .i ?o«ec_ ?v*ws or x-m •*
*■ --i-*S &4.VCACVS". H*?T4.ltS*oiS. JtSC lu»<
£5 a -**> V“ * « **«■-- S* i»S
•‘ s ■ - • .
“** 3 *******- -* Tit* l - $
ALE lifx jrwts r»>|
No Matter wnat Book you
want I’ve got it
Pmi t b* :mW iau »*r*.
■? yr.ott wi* a , . ~ .
»•“»•* WE®:^s“rr
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheao Book Deoot
67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney
ONLY A SM ILL IDEA Ol' MY STOCK CAN
BE COT FROM THIS ADYT.
Writ* f* r my,...
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Scar Aaj»a*ne for toe Asking.
KE *iT IS > W-S. MOXEI ORI> a. OR
POSTAL XOTE OP AST COINTRT.
SEST BT BKTCBX TOST. SO BUTT.
AST BOOK ADYOmSED ELSEVHEKE SENT.
Hv *TV * » :*{*;*• ;o * # --*
P 1 * KiH r ftw>niitf < i>iv:&
tit, A ■ *** VCS « -*-X -‘ 5 IIUF
laxwwo-v *j -si
Ai-J- . JT*. .St. A7.IH _ siv . ;x s « r e:«.
vA* :'c..v*r*T Ouvm of ms
'' ' ' ' " '
« SW6A>-’ :* X: -VSC. IctcsS-
X*.? I** 1 **- * Al 4 A*.,T Im-UNU. :* 'J±
«.««!> * > *mm «*.-sitT Sxy.ssv. Ktf» 3 c a 3
~ V \., : ' ,: ' :# *'-'*G<xL 'ssr Poors
' '• • v.
; * w £&*» HeaK
vI V Ci V ,SS4 > A Of n? A
JJJ * *». taw sm
-< vxx \A A * ‘ xTix-s .# sd paw fw«.
»> «• taw tun w»am»
V‘ ' ' " s - "»>'•* : VSCf ' i ,VK. ' VSl*
iA !nA s* -* a~ xw-.-.x»•».«*»
:V - »*«»* -xvis cs
w , «-V»»«T. C 7XUVS. :xv:dss,.-«sn^f
«(* w.v. .* -.vac -sad **r J <
'■ ' ' . . # ;V "- X .
• - • • > •••■
' ■' .-■' '• >v* XX- : ;:-
>< '
' ' - - •»
"4" J** '«* « A A.' ;y Fir ~
* N * 'a- rs> j\v; arc ,v». c r>;-> A t.


THE ADVANCE IN MODERN DENTISTRY
IV
IS
mm*
,c
u
THE MAN BEHIND THE GUN. *
MR. BERT. BROUE, Managing Director of
The National Dentistry Ltd.
(Corner of Liverpool and Castlereagh Sts.).
OVER NAT LEWIS'*
FACIAL
EXPRESSION
IMPORTANCE OF THE' TEETH.
AN INTERESTING INTERVIEW.
A very important factor in the facial expres-
» : on of an actor, or of any individual, is the <
teeth. Such is the view held by Bert E. Broue
(Managing Director of the National Dentistry,
Ltd.). The remark* here made by Mr. Broue
r.npiy to those who naturally have good teeth,
or teeth as supplied by the establishment over
which he presides. “Beautiful teeth and a
well-moulded face,” he explains, “aft the first
essentials in a pleasing expression, and show
to advantage during laughter, conversation, or
when at rest.' •
“The proper time to arrange for good teeth
and perfect jaw deveicgiment is in the begin-
ning. Tooth-development begins at a tfcnder
age. When the temporary teeth start to shed,
or fall out, the permanent ones take their place.
Some children’s teeth shed naturally, while
others must be extracted. And right here let
me caution you that both premature and de-
layed extraction of the temporary teeth are a
direct cause of irregular and mal-positioned
teeth of the permanent set and of restricted
jaw-development.
• when teeth are removed from the jaw be-
fore the next ones are ready to take their
place, and why delayed extraction will cause
the very same result.
"When a tooth is extracted because of some
annoyance, or lost by accident, the remaining
teeth have a tendency to move into the space
•o created. That makes insufficient room to
accommodate the second tooth, so it must take
an irregular position. Delayed extraction of a
temporary tooth forces the second tooth to
erupt out of line, either in front or behind that
temporary tootfl, thus creating an irregularity.
attention. But,' if such, irregularly positioned
teeth are permitted to remain till the bony
structure about the root becomes dense, then
it is a difficult matter to correct the fault.
* < The position of the teeth in the Jaw con-
trols the mould of the face. Crowded teeth
prevent proper 'jaw-deyelonment. When a j!*w
is under-developed the effect is seen In the
facial expression. The most noticeable defor-
mities of the face, due to the conditlons-narncd,
are—protrudipg chin, resultant from a sliding
forward of the-lower jaw caused by early ex-
traction ; the crooked face, twisted to either
side, due to a loss of teeth on one eld» of tho
jaw ; the ov€rshot jaw : and the polntod ap-
pearance of the upper lip, due to ovcrlapnsd
front teeth which arc crowded together, Thia
condition c?n be caused by prematuro or de-
layed extraction, or by thumb-oucklns. An-
other unsightly disfigurement la prominence- of
the cuspid teeth, commonly called tho ’eye' and
‘stomach’ tepth, which have the 'fang' appear-
ance. All these conditions prevent a perfectly-
moulded face, and therefore affect the expres-
sion of the emotions,
"Professioaal people understand Bpd' appre-
ciate the benefit of a good set of teeth, find *ll
of them do what they can to tuve such teeth.
tooth, and leave a favorable place in the gum
for •mouth-bugs’ to dig deep. ... ,
“All of us are not blessed with
teeth; but every individual can have ‘cleari
teeth at a small cost and very little effort. The
many dentifrices on the market and the so-
called wonderful ‘mouth washes’ are m many
instances more harmful than effective. Some
of the powders and pastes contain substances
. . V rr .u Scientists have
ot tne powoers Jr . >
which affect tooth-structure. Scientists have
proved that germ-destroying washes will
kill germs to any degree. It ■* a loeical a
ms to any uegrvv. .... - l°gi“l
The saliva mixes with the solution and
f*
SHOWING THE BRILLIANT LIGHTING
OF THE SURGERIES.
makes it weak and inefficient. If it is wd
strong enough to kill germs, it will invariably
d *A C tooth s powder, to be effective and worthy
to use in the mouth, must contain -grit, but
not in sufficient quantity to wear off the
enamel. Precipitated chalk and a flavor is all
that is necessary. Good soap will clean * c
~.,u Qait water is re commendable, it re-
moves substances from the teeth * nd b * rd^ s
the gum-tissue. As a mouth-wash it is un-
"“Bleeding guma should be given attention.
Usually it is due to small particles of tartar,
which forms under the gum and
" to the tooth. When pressed upon
ttosTwaa. pointed, sharp bits of tartar, the
single tooth, thus
single diamonds in the teethT ddl we have
special formation of diamonds—that *“ ““
number of diamonds—in a
getting magnificent results.’"
Since enlistment started in connection with
the Australian Expeditionary Force*, many a
would-l)e patriot has had his hope of being
a soldier of the Empire cut short on account of
defective teeth. ,
Do you recognise the necessity of haying
good teeth to enable you to fight the battle of
life ? A few decayed teeth are sufficient to
cause bad health, so says Bert E, Broue, man-
aging director of the National Dentistry, Ltd.,
whose surgery is situated at the corner of
Liverpool and Castlereagh streets, Sydney.
Discussing the outstanding difference be-
tween old and modern dental surgery, Mr.
Broue said : ,
"Nine-tenth of the present-day dentists
time is taken up in preserving the life of a
j tooth. Thirty years ago it was different ; then
i his duties were divided between removing teeth
( and replacing them with others. To-day our
objective is to preserve the life of a patient s
tooth, or, if dead, to deal with it in such a way
that the maximum use may be got out of it.
Such work embraces the treatment of the pulp,
the elimination of decay, or germ life of what-
ever description by filling the tooth by a plastic
or mechanical process, in which are used
cements, amalgams, gold, in both cohesive and
inlay forms ; and finally, the crowning with
gold or porcelain. Crowning is a last resort.
A tooth that cannot be saved by any other
method can in nine cases out of ten be saved
by crowning.
AN interesting talk upon modem methods and processes
in all the branches of present day dentistry by an
expert. Every line bears a message to matron, maid and
man upon the necessity of proper care and attention of
the teeth. Nature is bountiful in supplying you with
teeth, but she requires your aid to retain them.
v m
mgmtiMm
9
.
THE HEADQUARTERS AT THE CORNER OF LIVERPOOL
AND CASTLEREACH STREETS.
tton and afterwards whilst the food particles
are lying in the mouth in contact with the
teeth. Hence it is that you frequently see
naturally fine teeth becoming victims of decay
years before auch should. happen. A child
should be taught as early in its young days as
possible the necessity of cleaning the teeth.
To me,” continued Mr. Broue, “it has always
been incomprehensible that people should wash
their faces and neglect to cleanse their mouths.
Perhaps for the same reason that causes the
average schoolboy to clean the front portion
of his boots and leave the back part dirty—in
neither case it is noticeable For cleansing
the mouth nothing excels Castile soap an <*
plain precipitated whiting. J-t it rub the brush .
or the'soap, and dip it into t fyt whiting. The
soap acts as a means to convey the whiting ,
(the cleansing agent) to the teeth. The latter (
being of the same lorigin as lime has a bene- j
ficial effect OtTthe -structure of the teeth.
beware of peroxide.
» *Thc USO o! peroxide is so general that a
the
i child of nine or ten years of age. One
7„ aS a\ta,e e of°'dSir -Tmoat at
time of coming through the gums. This
due to some .inherited weakness •" ,t,e
'ManjTsuch" cases have been treated
for there is n 6 valid reason’ why a child should,
for years, put up with the disability of de
caving teeth or the absence of them, eiuter.
Eoth are a ciusc of ill-health. Going o
Extremes, a woman. 84 years of „a S e, has had
a complete set of teeth supplied.
Many difficult cases are handled successfully
and safely by present-day dentists. Of such
occurrences Mr. Broue speaks with a large
ametmtaof experience. A few weeks back a
aSienr*visited him whose case necessitated
SI. neing up of a ruptured artery, caused by
the treatment received from another vhep^ex-
! medico* 1 Unfortunately, none of the doctors
I usually available could be got in touch with.-
I ”, was Imperative that the case should have
immediate attention, for the patient was suffer-
ir
** '
THE SPACIOUS RECEPTION-ROOMS.
mm 2
*!ss»
.
» ;
C lN ONE QP THtSUROERIE^
“Recently « -Oman from the county
treated. The case ia unusual “Ouch to
gi ; she cut eleven fresh teeth.
a third set—good, perfect teeth, too. The ln-
cident is recalled with a view to showing that
third teeth are grown by people of advanced
yC "Some cases of patients with cleft
nave been most successfully treated at the
National Dentistry, Ltd. „ N s
“Here is one : A man from Wollombi, N.h.
Wales required to have twenty-seven stitches
Verted in his* palate. The case -as treated
in co-operation wjth Dr. Stanser ®°™ r *
Usually when a patient with such a deformity
comes to be treated, it is to have his teeth re-
moved. In such a case it is usual to affix to
the plate an artificial nalate-—that is to say, an
apnendage designed to renlice the lost tissue
ONLY THE HIGHEST SKILL IS EM-
PLOYED IN THE SURGERIES.
in the cavity created by the cleft. The plate
with the teeth and the appendage being all in
one. . Generally, these palates are mado of
special Vel* rubber. The Wollombi man had
perfectly sound teeth. The only trouble was
the cleft palate. What was done by Dr. Stanser
Bowker and Mr. Broue entirely did away with
the necessity of c plate, together with the rub-
ber appendage, such as has been described. The ]
; uvula was united in the centre, and the stitching
brought forward to the apex of the cleft. The
result has ejy.cn the utmost satisfaction.
, “Cases of second hemorrhage are not un-
known to the profession. Such patients show
no symptoms of bleeding to excess at the time
their teeth are extracted, but after reaching
home the trouble commences. Where much
bleeding sets in the patient should communicate
I with the dentist who operated upon him or her.
I By so dping treatment can be applied that will
j stav the flow of blood. In justice to the dentist,
| such a happening should be reported, for it is
The National
Dentistry Ltd.
LIVERPOOL HOUSE*
(OVER NAT LEWIS’)
Corner Liverpool and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney
entrance, in castlereagh-street
(.OPP. MARK. POT’S)
AND PAUL’S CHAMBERS, BOLTON ST,
NEWCASTLE*
■TELEPHONE. OX?, «<>#•
WE HAVE DEALT WITH 57.000
CLIENTS DURING THE PAST
EIGHTEEN MONTHS AND
■ CLAIM TO HAVE HAD AS
GREAT A MEASURE OF SUCCESS
AS ANV ESTABLISHMENT ON.
EARTH,.
in swallowing a tooth, or c*en two. Not to
long ago a man did swallow- two pivot tccUi
without any direful results.
CHANGED FEATURES.-
«*H a ve you ever noticed the changed appear-
ance of a friends* face after having a large
number of teeth extracted ? Not always does it
make for improvement. In this connection, per-
haps, the fair sex, whose faces are often their
fortune, are most concerned. That it is possible
to fully restore the contour of thc-iace has been
demonstrated time and again. ’Any decent
operator should be able to do so, says Mr.
Broue. “No person suffering from a depression
or hollow in the cheeks need fret over the fact,
for it is certainly curable. A case in point i*
that of a woman treated at the rooms of the
National Dentistry. Lt<L. corner of Liverpool
and Castlereagh streets, right in the heart of
the busy city of Sydney. The whole of the ten-
dons of her face had been destroyed, and the
muscles of the lips and cheeks were formed into
knotty protuberances. They made a plate for
her, upper and lower—a plate so big that the
outer flanges of the gum'exceeded an inch in
thickness. Such thickness was necessary to get
the face back to its original contour. Contrary
to what might have been expected, the plate
was tjot- tgnsuot l / wovjn* or fiUiRSr to
*!
m
m
A
- .
THE MECHANICAL STAFF AT WORK.
A ptetty let of teeth lights up ah ordinary .
face; and the expression is pleasing. To Keep
the teeth sound and clean, It is not necessary
to become a slave to the toothbrush. I would |
esution you riot, to use. your toothbrush a
Scrubwoman does on a tile -floor. A tooth-
crush properly employed is d scientific assist-
ance in a mechanical way to keep the teeth
Kiczn. However, if a brush is used without
discretion it whi do. more harm than good.
’ “Tho teeth should be brushed after- each
ffrtcal. and surely bcfofe retiring, because it is
at night that ‘mouth-hugs’ work "havoc. . Par-
rCdqi of food left between the teeth and on the,
Surfaces disintegrate and form a chemical ele-
‘ jV'cnt that decays tooth-structure. Brush the
c «stK 4)n the front and back surfaces. Brush
||the.gum towards the tooth edge. Also the
faces.. Remove all particles from be-
tween the teeth, and use a quill pick for that;
jPurpasc. Wohd and floss and rubber bands
delicate p'.ecjbrane round a,
gum bleeds. Of course, tome diseases cause I
the same, result; but the dentist tfiU diagnose j
the case and correct it.
“The teeth should hot be abused. But they .
must have exercise. Proper mastication sup-
plies that want perfectly, and it prevents indt-
> gestion. To masticate the food properly it is
not necessary to ‘Fletchcrise it. Chew slow^y,
bite upon the front teeth and grind with the
back ones. The act of chewing the food will
affect the facial expression. One-sided masti-
cation develops muscles on one side more tnan
on the other, and the result- is more than
noticeable.-- Often it. is a disfiguration. With
comfortable, scientifically fitted teeth—such at
we studiously endeavor to supply—impertect
mastication, with its many disabilities, is neat
t 0, ‘I that we Have just secured the
services of a doctor of dental surgery, with a
specigl equipment for crown, bridge, inlay, and
diamond-setting work. hot only do we. set
A barbarous METHOD.
"Twenty years ago dentists were equipped
with what was known as an excising forcep.
It was indeed an instrument of torture.-calcu-
lated to strike fear into the stoutest heart, io-
day the National Dentistry—which is the hig-
hest dental institution south of the Line—does
not possess such a thing.
"What I am about to say may seem stran.e,
but if we are to avoid becoming a nation ot
mumblers, a more thorough inspection of
school children’s teeth should be made._ in-
deed, the care of the teeth should begin before
the child even goes to .school. •
"One of the principal , causes of decay ani
disintegration of teeth can fee attr,bu ,, te £
alarming and shameful -p«*Ctice of ad “ , f l e r*3"J
articles of .human consumption generally—but
those in which sugar is the principal ingredi-
ent more particularly. A great deal of fermen-
tation- takes place in the mouth with pr'«nt-
i day food, both during .the process of
word of warning is necessary. When applied
by the users themselves it becomes an absolute
danger. For instance, take the case, say, of
a person who has just partaken of some acid
form of food, particles of which are still re-
tained in the mouth. I have seen many in-
stances of violent reactions in the mouth due
to the application of peroxide, and permanent
damage to the teeth has only been averted by
the immediate removal of the drug. Dentists
may, and do. use it with the best results and
with perfect safety. But in applying drugs to
the mouth (and peroxide comes within this
category) the dentist should note the prevailing
ate of the mouth, and in the event of such
q thing as epulis, or other form of malignant
disease being present, it should be regarded as
case for the surgeon. In our institution
when euch a case presents itself we recoenise
that the services of a surgeon are called for
who will advise regarding treatment. A wise ,
discrimination in this respect means the entire
removal of all danger in dental operations. I
Many of our new patients require the atten- ,
tion of our doctors, before bfing operated j
me Just briefly cite a case in illustra- i
tion of what I am here stating. Some time !
ago a patient came to me with an exceeding y
bad mouth of teeth. They were in an ad-
vanced state of decay. We sqprt dggmed a
growth on the jaw as epulis. Taking our
advice, she visited her own medical advuxr,
and ho confirmed our opinion of the ca.e, tie
sent the patient back to us for the removal
nt ill her teeth (thirty-one), and the prepara-
of her mouth for. treatment by him The
woman then went Into a private hospital
where the malignant growth was removed, and
Th. Vnnnth restored to a thoroughly sound state
-—a that was gratifying to the doctor,
myself, and the patient. I know of no decent
dental practitioner who charges a fee for c n ‘
• that being so. everyone should not
delay in consulting a reputable dentist, and so
deal of torture and expense, often paused
by so delaying.
MODERtf METHODS.
••When one looks back through a vista of
, ears it is agreeable and surprising to note the
imoroved‘methods and processes that have
3 ’ntrodnc.d into dentistry. No long.r 1.
it necessary to 'screw one s courage up to
entSr the surgeries of the National Dentistry
Ltd There are many illustrations ot the
greit advances thst have been made in the
Dractice of the dentist’s profcssn?m.. Some oi
cases treated at the big surgeries situated
at the corner of Liverpool and Castlcreajh
strccVs Sydney, may bs given' as instance,.
• There it is quite in ordinary thing to put
a plate of a* many as sixth teeth ia.thc month
f '
K I
£ „ ': ‘
j* ■ ' ■ mmm
A
%ir
“f - fv *
a#.**
.•■>;■ -
WHERE ALL THE MECHANICAL WORK IS DONE*
!ng through Toss of Mood. Mr. Broue. being a
man of resource, got to work and located .the
artery, which he ligated himself. The patient
was afterwards seen by his doctor, who re-
marked that the operation could not have been
better performed. t A peculiar happening is
recorded by Mr. Bcoue. From near the border
g£ Queensland there came a case where a tooth
reoeated itself -three times. At first a pro-
truding .tooth was .removed, because of over-
crowding. -Some rfionths later a second tooth
■ ppeared ; -this was removed, also. Again, for
Betw —
lid and the appear-
a tooth
the extraction 'of the
nnce of the third \there waS an interval of
eighteen months. The second and third teeth
were alike as two pins, and p:
of the first. All protruded
fashion, and in other respects
the same
other respects as well were
■ked\ by identical characteristics. There
appearance' ' * 1
had exhausted herself.'
fourth tooth—Nature
only flirough the patient that the dentist can
be. notified of the circumstance.
"Because a tooth has broken off a celluloid
plate there is no reason why it cannot be re-
placed. In fact, any number of teeth can be
replaced if necessary. This is the experience of
the managing director of the National Dentis-
try. Ltd. Plates supplied by other dentists are
frequently so repaired by ‘them.
ONE CAUSE Of CANCER.
"Do not have a faulty or badly-fitting plate
in your mouth. It may cause ulceration through
injuring the gums or palate. Indeed, cancer of
the mouth has been attributed to the tissue
therein being constantly irritated by a badly-
fitting plate.
"False teeth cannot be recommended as a diet,
for it is narrated that a Kempsey rp*n swal-
lowed a plate, which lodged in his throat and
. caused his death. There is 119 danger, however.
In a most approved fiiit to fcet
result the patient was treated with the grefttes'J
care for a period extending over four month*—'
adding to the plate here and taking away from i':J
there, just as the wearing and use of it showed,
such Improvement to be necessary. The patlen'/j
acknowledged that the time 6pcnt waa wel*
spent, for she was very pleased^
CONSULTATIONS FREE
HOURS '9 AM. TO 9 P.M. EVERY
DAY EXCEPT SATURDAY. WHEN
WE CLOSE AT 1 P.M.


N.SW.
OPENING of the SUMMER GARDEN!
- -~e w rth Hotel Garden is now in full swinsr. and. as
in previous seasons, has quickly become the rendezvous of the elite.
Delightfully cool and comfortable, it is ideal for Luncheons. Dinners.
Afternoon Teas and Supper Parties and all open-air functions.
Vi-itors to Sydney will find The Wentworth Hotel most popular.
The appointments and service are superb, and compare favorablv with
the best hotels in Australia. Terms on application.
Mrs. MACXUKCAX, Manageress.
STOMACH MEDICINES ARE
DANGEROUS.
DOCTORS NOW ADVISE MACNESIA.
Just how da unrolls it is to indiscrimin-
atei\ dose the stomach with drugs and medi-
oiuos is often not realised until too late,
it SCGSg so simple to swallow a dose of
some special mixture or to rake tablets
w some so-called remedy or other after
meals, and the folly of this drugging is not
apparent until perhaps years afterwards.
Kegrets are then unavailing: it is in the
earl\ stages, when indigestion, dyspepsia,
heart earn, flatulence, etc,, indicates exces-
>ne acidity of the stomach and fermentation
''' " u ' intents, that precaution should
,'ki ta^'n V Drugs and medicines are unsuft-
able and often dangerous—they have as a
rule little or no influence upon the harmful
aciu. and that is why doctors are discarding
them and advising sufferers from digestive
am. stomach trouble to get rid of the dan-
gerous acid and keep the food contents
ana and sweet by taking a little bi*tt rated
magnesia instead. Risurated magnesia is an
approx ed antacid, which can readily be ob-
tained from the chemist. It is practically
iuti * tea spoonful taken in a
ttio warm or cold water after meals will
wsowly be found quite sufficient to instantly
xiitralise excessive acidity of the stomach
and prevent all possibility of the food fer-
menting.— Advt.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hughes and Watson and the others who
are supposedly handling this matter of pro-
viding employment for returned soldiers be-
long to a party pledged to the hilt on the
taxation of land values. Are they going to
use this as the key to open the land of Aus-
tralia to the soldiers and to others? If they
are not they ought to say so; if they are
they shouldn't play with the thing. So far
the only talk is of repurchase. Watson says
that for this no loans will be required—the
owners “will take debentures.” What does
tnat mean but loans? Somebody will have
t>» repay them.
THE MAGIC MIRROR.
suggested faith cure for synthetic feeders.
"Hail times been normal he would have
welcomed a contest which would have added
l i\the gaiety of London." says the Abuts.
referring to G. Reid's election to St.
trcorge s. Hanover Square. Then then is
something to be said even for the war. since
it has prevented the name of Australia
being associated in the mind of the Londoner
with the feeble jests of a fat old vulgarian.
1" tom a man who lias hoard there's a
world’s war in progress:
The Minister for Public Instruction in X. S.
Males evidently believes that all the talk about the
need for economy is rot. On the 24th instant appli-
cations close for positions in the Medical branch of
the Education Department for 11 doctors, nine
dentists, seven nurses and five dental assistants.
The salaries, allowances, etc., will come to over
£12,000. It is a new outburst this, and, since the
war services require all the medical and nursing
aid they can get, will hamper the military authori-
ties. Anyway, if it does not the Department will
get a crowd of inferior, unpatriotic and unskilful
medieoes, while if it waits till hostilities end there
will be plenty of good, patriotic and skilled men
a ' a ilable. If that £ 12,000-odd is going begging,
why not give the civil servants their increments?
Mhy economise on one side and make a splash on
the other?
WHAT ELSE COULD ONE WRITF.
ABOUT ?
FATHER: “Wot cher got?"
SON : "Somethin' for you.”
FA THER : "Why , I ain’t 'ad a row wiv no
buddy this week, have I?”
The first and greatest principle of Labor
government is the elimination of the para-
site. great and small—the securing to the
producer of the full products of his toil.
Richard Denis Meagher belongs to
r he parasite class, and always has belonged
to. i* > J' er the bogus Labor party in X. S.
ales loads him with honors and lucrative
billets. Why.' Simply because Richard
Denis Meagher wants those things badly for
personal reasons, and is a person who would
make himself very unpleasant to the Labor
Ministry if he didn’t get them. So Richard
Denis Meagher is another bit of the price
the community pays for the present immoral
system of party government.
■ Ruckland. who passed over at
Cambridge i M. 1.. I reeentlv. after 73 years
on the planet, once collected local fame as
the author of the most remarkable Rill ever
circulated in the M.L. House of Reps.
Ruckland wasu t much as a politician, but
he was great as a hidebound Ton of the
ancient school, aud in the davs when Bal-
jan.ee was bringing forward fistfuls of legis-
lation dealing drastically with factories,
sh. ps and offices, he was continuallv foam-
ing at the mouth. So he set out to slay the
enemy by ridicule, and prepared an in-
genious measure entitled "The Washers and
Manglers Rill. * which he managed to set
printed in the usual way and duly circulated
ui lie House. This Bill proposed t«> make
the then Minister for Imbor ■W. 1* Reeves i
responsible for the -mallest actions of women
who p"k in washing and mangling. Tie-
on Rueklaud’s side ~f r he fence h wled with
delight when the Rill appeared, but it hadn’t
been m circulation long when Mr. Speaker
ro track aud ordered its immediate
withdrawal on the grounds of an excess of
frivolity.
The W ales Government, having to
enoose a Lord Mayor of Svduev. last week
selected Richard Denis Meagher a- the
man most suitable for the job. If half the
things oue hears about the Sydney Oitv
Council are true, the Government was for
once right. Anyway, the Council has made
no noise about it. and seems to have agreed
r:.at its honor and dignity and other things
are m appropriate hands when they are
passed over to a solicitor who was struck
off the roils for infan.ms conduct: who has
at plied again and again to the Lull Court
i.l "tote for re-admission and has been
told that ae i- not a fit person; and who. on
appealing to the High Court of th. Common-
wealth. was handled even more contemptu-
ously. W hen the Government, knowing its
man. says that he is worthy to preside'over
* oiincil. it sc r. s about time the
public began to inquire what sort of a Citv
Council it is. especially as the bodv accepts
him without protest.
As the war threatens to last a long time
and debts are piling up like Kosciuskos and
everybody is urging everybody else to prac-
tise economy, it is pleasing to note that this
year Premier Peacock has abandoned the
usual Parliamentary trip down the bay in
the Government steamer Lady Loch. True,
lie has replaced it with a week’s Parliamen-
tary trip to the Gippsland Lakes —per
special train, motors, coaches, etc. —osten-
sibly to broach the Bairnsdale-to-Orbost
railway, which is a huge undertaking and
will obviously take some time to broach.
Still. Peacock doesn't forget his duty and
the need of the times. The anticipated 120
members and their relatives are informed
that they must bring their own soap.
‘'Guests are advised to bring their own
towels and soap." Now that is really states-
manlike.
Commenting on the exposure of German
duplicity in the matter of the four pro-
fessors. really spies, who visited us recently
as guests of the British Association. Prime
Minister Hughes said: “Let us hope, now
that our eyes have been opened to Germany's
abuse of our generous hospitality, we shall
slam the door of Australia in her face.”
With as much respect for Hughes as he be-
gins to deserve, this paper ventures to sug-
gest that his Government should now slam
the door in its own face and get to work—
especially on a tariff. We can’t beat Ger-
many industrially with our mouths any more
than we,can beat it on the field. Heaven
knows the attempt to do it there has been
disastrous enough.
Labor is likely to give the X.S.W. politi-
cal truce a crack on the head over the Parra-
matta by-election. So far Holman has
prided himself considerably on his party's
strict observance of the agreement. But the
Liberal seats which have fallen vacant gave
very little chance for Labor, so Holman
found it convenient to make a virtue out of
hopelessness. On the other hand. Parra-
matta was held by Moxham mainlv on per-
sonal popularity, much as Xobbs used to
hold Granville: and Death, in finishing his
political career, left the field open to a push-
ing Laborite. Frank Walford. So Labor, hav-
ing any amount of Liberal precedent for
breaking a dishonorable understanding, will
go ahead.
The “coast railway" from Sydney to Mel-
bourne is a few rails nearer completion.
\\ ith the recent running of the first passen-
ger train from Bairnsdale to Xewmeralla,
within a couple of miles of Orbost (Vic.),
the distance to be filled in-between Bombala
(X.S.W.) _and Xewmeralla—has been re-
duced to i * crows miles. If the present
brand of Liberalism continues to hold office
in A ictoria for another half-century, it
seems quite likely that the rest of the line
may be completed by 1966. this new section
of 60 miles having taken several decades of
persistent local agitation to accomplish. Yet
the Lands Department alone, with its mil-
lions of beautiful, well-watered, riehlv-tim-
bered acres in that Xewmeralla-Bombala
region, should find it easy enough to make
its brethren of the Railways see what a fine
thing such a railway would be for all
parties.
THE SAME OLD OPPORTUNIST.
The Queensland Lalior Government called
in a business man the other day— R \[
Anderson AUen Tayl.,'s old pam,er-u> tell
it what Private Enterprise would do ym-
l \ m? •* ran the railways. And among the
few changes he said Private Enterprise
would make is the development of one or
more coal mines to keep its own fire-boxel
ml. The Government had. as a matter of
fact, decided on this extra ba of
time ago . but it hardly expected that Pri
Vr 6 Enterprise £ onld it to ahead'
Yet why it shonldn t have exnected it i<n*r
clear, since even the Fattest private
Pf ls^ r telling the working man to
be thrifty and grow Ids own cabbages and
S? M
Lanehlan Maekinnon having revived hi*
«** Papuan s SaTES? ami
string of beads, the other dav his u ,
£rre.three-fourths of a column to the\Xv
congratulation of the new knight Vfter -nl -
Cunningham had talked a grea t deal
Lanehlan said he "owed the honVr r, d tk
Argcs. 'so one see- the erin- a i ' r - tie
imported title is the reward
is the bitterly stupid FreetraiWwA> i? 61 S
Raws
being a mischievous anti-Australi.au.
“Quidam” : It may be heretical, but there
is much to admire in Governor Galway’s
blunt remarks to the railway men in Adel-
aide. Just when super-superior energy and
organisation are wanted the workers are
knocking off on the least possible pre-
text. Now. democratic principles are all
right, but their value can be utterly nulli
tied if the democracy cannot think or
behave in a sane manner. And when the
home-stayers of a nation in war-time knock
off work for the flimsiest grievances, an in
telligent outsider may be pardoned for con-
cluding that the democracy 13 very mad
indeed. Better a Governor who tells this
truth than a politician who doesn’t.
THE HUNT.
At the beginning of November a firm in the
Landsberger-Strasse in Berlin was selling “do»
sausages" at Is. per pound, and buvers were =o
plentiful that there was a good sale.— liar item.
It looks as though Holman has decided
not to run for the Cootamundra farming
constituency again. Last week the Sydney
Srx told the obvious truth that "high prices
induced by the war" were the main cause
of the big area put under crop in X. ,s.
Wales. But the idea that any good thing
should happen for which he wasn't respon-
sible .was so repulsive to the swollen-headed
egomaniac that he scouted the Sun's plain
statement of fact. How could high prices
have anything to do with it, he wanted to
know, "seeing that the price of wheat has
been rigorously held down bv special legis-
lation passed by the X. S. Wales Govern-
ment all through last year"! Certainly the
price of wheat was "rigorouslv heia down."
80 that the drought-stricken farmers of Hol-
man s electorate got no more per bushel for
their three-bushel harvest than they will
get this year for their 20-bushel: and a
man who is proud of having condemned his
constituents and >ther Riverina farmers to
l:'e on rabbits and pollard, as hundreds of
them had to, can t be seriously thinking of
looking that way again for votes. His
natural appeal is to a community not of
producers but of parasites.
I.ast week s finest recruiting haul was
made when "Bill ‘ Rosser lined up for a
suit of khaki. It was a hard clout for the
Peace crowd and a harder one for the other
crowd which says it's a capitalists' war
and the great proletariat" has nothing to
gain, anyhow. Rosser, who first waved a
red rag at Broken Hill in Tom Mann's dav.
and has lately been president of the X.S.W.
Railway Workers and General Laborers'
Association, takes The Rulletis's view
that the Allies are warring against war.
and ' for the most ardent opponent of mili-
tarism there is only one course to take —to
fight militarism till it is crushed.”
Ami there can be no doubt whatever as to the
object ot Germany in seeking world domination. It
ts an object which takes by the throat every prinei-
P* e 01 freedom, justice, liberty and social progress
so dear to the hearts of sincere and earnest lovers of
humanity the world over.
In. those circumstances it seems a proper
thing to call on the whole nation to- do its
bit. which means universal service.' ‘Rosser,
however, reckons that it is the right thing
to let those who will fight against German
domination, while the rest "s-ah" on them.
® ■* against conscription. Still in his
case ir doesn t matter, because he says "to
oppose conscription ami yet not eniist is
the act of a trifler and a hypocrite.”
THE EMPIRES THAT REMAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Peace Society delegate contended that foree
had had a very good innings so far, and had been
in utter failure. The empires of the past founded on
force had disappeared, and more would disappear in
the future. —Report •of Anti-Conscription meeting.
The empires built on foree are gone.
The desert wind blows o'er their tomb,
Though that they built their hopes upon
Is always more or less a boom.
They marched afar in ordered ranks,
They toppled down a thousand thrones,
And still we hear no word of thanks
Or praise bestowed upon their bones.
The empires built on peace remain
Exactly where they used to be;
They made it absolutely plain
They would not fight by land or sea.
They went with olive branches lorg
Ami doves entangled in rheir hair,
And when their neighbors looked too strong
They humbled them with frequent prayer.
If people armed with sword or spear
Removed their cows or stole their corn,
They used to shed a quiet tear.
Or curl their lips with haughty scorn.
If anyone with larger feet
Lifted a hefty arm and smote,
Their anger rose to fever-heat—
The large, rude persons got a Note.
And so these empires still remain
Exactly where they used to be,
Making it absolutely plain
They will not fight by land or sea.
Observe their high, imperial smile,
Sleek as a well-stroked Persian cat—-
Their lands lie broad for many a mile
All covered by a dreamer's hat.
x.s.w.
CURSE O' MOSES.


I Trn irx'iTTwrai.rmnriwTHmr ■*-■ -■ ' * * ¥,llaB ' i rvrirsri sw>«aa**^^.*,~vvstti
Australian Novels.i Adventure
1/. each— The “Bookstall” Series—i/1 posted
M&IESTYS
SERVICE
BY ras EXCEUENCYS
COMMAND
of Australian Books.
“OX HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
by ROY BRIDGES.
An intensely interesting and dramatic
romance of Van Diemen’s Land.
“FOR TURON GOLD,”
by DON DELANEY.
A brilliant Australian goldfields' tale,
crowded with exciting incidents.
L’cd
FIFTIES r>OTH
DEJL.ANEY
JJ
By LOUIS BECIvE.
The Famous Australian Writer of South Sea Stories.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
“THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS BLAKE.”
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
by JOHN X. CAMERON.
A story of the good old days in the Aus-
tralian bush.
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S
COMMAND,”
by ROY BRIDGES.
“STELLA SOTHERN,”
by I. A. ROSENBLUM.
A novel of exciting adventures in
Northern Territory.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
by DON DELANEY.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR LAUNCH.”
by ARTHUR H. ADAMS,
SIX SPLENDID BUSH RANGING BOOKS— 1/
“SHORT-LIVED BUSHRANGERS,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
“ JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER,”
—by CHARLES WHITE.
“DAN KELLY, OUTLAW,”
—bv AMBROSE PRATT.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
‘“THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN RANGE,”
—by AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE DEVIL’S NIGHTCAP,,”
—by LANCELOT BOOTH.
each.
TOoiSirS^AN
'■6
“TOOLS OF SATAN,”
by LANCELOT BOOTH.
One of those thrilling, absorbing novels
that holds the reader’s attention from the
first page to the last.
“SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,”
by A. .J. BARRY.
A series of sea stories of great dramatic
strength by one of the most popular of
sea-adventure writers.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or direct
from the Publishers.
Write for Complete Catalogue.
South Sea
Shipmates
John Arottirß4r«7
SUv.Brownjßimyttt
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd., 476 George St., Sydney
NEEDLESS FEAR OF HEART TROUBLE.
Many people have needless fears about the
state of their hearts. Sharp, shooting pains
that are sometimes present round the heart
worry the sufferer into dread, of heart dis-
ease. As a matter of fact, pain in the heart
is scarcely ever present in organic heart dis-
ease. The pain is nearly always from the
stomach.
When your digestion is out of order it
often affects the heart, and even causes an
irregularity in its beat. The gas produced
by undigested and fermented food may cause
pressure that affects the heart unpleasantly.
But these pains do not mean that you have
heart disease, nor need you fear sudden
death.
Tone up the stomach, correct any errors
of diet. Eat the right things and not too
much of them. Don’t pamper your stomach
with pre-digested food and artificial aids to
digestion. Tone up your stomach so that it
will do its own proper work. Don’t worry
about your heart; worry causes and aggra-
vates indigestion.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are the best
digestive tonic. First you notice an increase
in your appetite. Then you see that the food
does not distress you; that you are no longer
troubled with wind, sour risings in the
throat and those misleading pains round the
heart. Strength and energy return. A use-
ful booklet on “What to Eat and Ilow to
Eat” will be sent to anyone sending name
and address to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Sydney.— Advt.
A DAINTY LAXATIVE.
Some cathartics should be used but once,
others should not be repeated often.
Pinkettes, the tiny pink laxative granules,
may be used as long as desired without fear
of causing a drug habit. They are a perfectly
safe laxative as well as a dainty one. You
can take them until regular habits are estab-
lished and then discontinue them without any
relapse or reaction.
Pinkettes are recommended for the treat-
ment of torpid liver, biliousness, constipation
and sick headache, for the complexion, and
whenever a gentle laxative is required.
Your chemist sells Pinkettes at Is. per
bottle. If you prefer to try them first a
dainty free sample will be- sent you if you
write to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Syd-
ney, mentioning The Bulletin. —Advt.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AItABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others : it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
Iiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiimimimimiiiiiiiiimmmmimmmiiimmiiimiiimimmiiiimil
•puBiSug *43»S31{DU«VV 'M J «d pJOjjBJX— s> l JO /A
him iiniiiiiiiiimiM tiiiuiiitiiiiiuiiiiiiiMiiMMM in m in hi mini linn m Mini imuiiiii![Miiiiiuiii! > I
mm
im
‘HMHnoaiHW ‘i33His wvmiM ‘w ‘OMianna aNv is^aaaO
-«oi aaijjo P«»H
•S9[qB9 SuilUODUI .TO] 99Bds 9|dlUy
•J9A09 }UOJJ JO JBAOU19.I UO 9jqiSIA 9.1B SU01499UU09 [|y
•sSuuds J9§uy jo uSisgp |Bi99ds Aq p9}U9A9Jd a[9jiju9
\IB9A\ JO 9AI}99dS9.I.U U01SU9} .I9gUU JUBJSUO^)
9qj uo jno-A\o[q .i9||0J4U09 9J49u8biu jnjj9A\od }soj\;
•p9.unb9J ugqAv ‘.iojoui J9qjra }no gupjno jo poq}9iu
•S.IlCd9J pue UOj499dsUI JOJ qioq 9[qiSS999B AJISB9 SJJBd ||y
•sdij SupjB uirup puB .iggiiij
*9|qBA\9U9.l A|dB9q9 pUB A|1SB9 Sj.iud" SllUB9A\ |[y
’93UBU9)UIBU1 A\Oq
•S4-lBd SlUAJ.IBO }U94.in9 ||B JO Suijb.1 |B.I9qiq
•9[qB9SuBq9J9HlJ A|PJ4JS puB 9griBg O} 9pBUI s}.iBd ||y
•syBd |o .laquinu uinmiuiiu qj[A\ uisiUBq99iu 9[diui$
•uoijorujsuoD |BDiuBq99iu Suoa’js A||Buoijd99\q
S3HniY3d 3YI333S 31VOS
saanoaiNOj avmwvhi
a sno\j?ups3^\
l Jpi l i|i 1, Vio^ l, Suiaru3wi l nu«w ,l pu* ,| ,3*^3®I3 l, ®®uo^ l mjsa^ lll {|siiug" , av|j' I
immiimimimtujiftmituimmmmiimmmimmmiimiimmmrmmiimmimiiiimmmmimmHmHiimimmiiimiiiimiimmiiiimmlllll
PARIS 1889
GRAND PRIX
in—i'PKls
i
m
'M'
I
;,a
--y
' ■v' •
a
>
S§S
&
m
©
-- •
w
$
m
■ twi *
fe-* i-(S&
NYCARLSB
E W
WV
®ANTsff3
c ro6ig Hsisiva ox /j.
m
1


RESCH'S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LIHITED, Redfern. Sydney.
Missing Friends.
\f ACDOXALD (WILLIAM), about 38
xtX years old. came to Australia from Scot-
land about the year 1599. He is a son of
John Stewart Macdonald, deceased, formerly
of Glasgow, Scotland. Wine and Spirit Mer-
chant. He was a soldier in Victoria Bar-
racks* Melbourne, and afterwards at Queen-
cl'ffe, Victoria, in September. 1905*. After lie
left the Military he was residin’ at °6
Rrnce Street. Kensington. Melbourne. When
he left there he went to Bendigo or Ballarat
and while working on a farm in Gippsland
he met with an accident and afterwards
■walked with a limp. He is known as **Sol-
dier Mack." Any information concerning
him may be f.-rwarded to Sergeant Hickey"
of -No. 1 Police Station. Clarence Street
Sydney.
Cj PHILIP), al-o known as Donie
Gallivan. la-t heard from at Yass, X e w South
Wale;, Augi:-t 21, 1914. when he sent a po-Teard
from there to his mother in Kngland and -ignedU
Doxie. Something' to hi* advantage aw,:-' him
Any information concerning him mav be forwarded
r* UVer - Xo 1 Pol Nation. Clarence
KIDNEY TROUBLE AND LUMBAGO.
RELIEVED AFTER A MONTH’S
COURSE OF DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN ROOT RILLS.
M hen the kidneys are disordered and not
fulfilling rheir proper functions, the blood
becomes too strongly charged with uric acid,
§5
r
MIC. /). MctNTOSU.
(from a photo.)
and lumbago or some
other form of rheuma-
tism results. To get
rid of these troubles
the kidneys require
attention. That Dr.
Morse's Indian Root
Pills are a most suc-
cessful medicine for
this purpose has been
proved repeatedly. An
appropriate illustra-
tion is the case of Mr.
D. Mclntosh, which is
described in his letter
following:—
“At Werris Creek
some years ago I was
a ::rear suit ere r from the kidnevs and lum-
l»a go." writes Mr. David -Mclntosh, of Henry
Street, Gunnedah. N.S.W. "The doctors did
me no good, and a friend recommended my
trying Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, for
which lam truly grateful. I found after
taking a course of this remedy extending over
the period of one month. I was much relieved
aud could get up for work: prior to this,
heavy work was out of the question, and I
had to obtain assistance before rising each
day. All this happened many years ago, but
I have never forgotten your medicine, and
now give my opinion and sanction to publish
t testimony.” —Auvt.
Public Notices.
/ IOMMON WEALTH PATENT No. llj®
V ami dated the 29tli day f April. 1908
for an Invention entitled "I.tn ovements it
an d relating to Explosives.”
Ihe Public of the t Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia is hereby notified that any reasonable
revpiireinonts in regard to permission, upoi
royalty, for Mannfaetnrers or others to ein
ploy the said invention, iu Australia, will b<
satisfied by the undersigned tat reasonabh
on being made to him.
Melbourne, the 12th day of January. 1916
” • PAI.MEU t the Patentee), in cart
of A. o. SAfllsi:. CsFL Patent Attorney
eorner of Collins and William Streets
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Les Darcy list. 111 b.; George ‘Knock-out’
Blown, of Chicago, list. 811 b.,” roared the an-
nouncer, and the crowd at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day, jambed together like sardines, sat up and held
its breath for what was going to happen. It was
reckoning on blood and hair. Mr. Brown's fame was
considerable. His record among the minor American
middleweights is like the story of a tornado. Yarns
about his training performances had been serious
competitors with the war news. He didn't care if
Darcy weighed a ton.
Would this core drop one of his mighty wallops
on the young Maitlander and hurt him f ’ That is
what the crowd wanted to find out. WeU, he didn’t.
‘•Bos on'” cried Arthur Scott, and Brown rolled in
with a crouch and a smother and a bash in either
hand: but they were bashes that were deHrered with
great deliberation, without particular intelligence, and
mostly made a whistling r.oise as they dashed the
atmosphere aside in intervals of clinching. There
was more in-fighting during this disturbance than
has been seen at the Stadium for many a day. At
times the men looked more like wrestlers than
boxers. Brown is a Terr strong feUow, and his
method of hearing a mighty smite at an opponent’s
upper structure and then closing in to fight hard
against the body would make his assault difficult for
anyone less powerful to withstand. But Darcy hap-
pens to be Hie stronger, and despite his own strength
Mr. Brown got badly handled at close-quarters, with
heavy punishing visitations to the ribs and chin. It
was a rough, confused, uninteresting sort of struggle,
redeemed from becoming wearisome by Brown's
wild his great courage and unconsciously
amusing swank in trotting bac-k to corners. It went
the whole way, and as Brown had not won a round
Scott's judgment against him stood without a caveat.
At the end Brown walked over and patted Darcy'on
the back.
As between these two men the question of which
Ts the better is not arguable. Brown could rot beat
Darcy even by accident. They are not in the one
class. All the same, the stranger is a mighty, hard
customer, who can stand as much knocking about as
any half-dozen pngs of average endurance. This is
the onl_w quality he reallv has. On Saturday night
he took 'frequent stiff jolts under the jaw—on one
occasion four were handed him in quick succession—
without suffering serious inconvenience. Many times
at the openii.y of a round Darcy deposited a violent
glove square to the side of the head with a force
which sent the moisture flying in a spray from
Brown's iron cranium. From these he recovered
with wonderful alacrity. Only two or three times
was he really rattled, and even then he was quic-kly
able to fight back or hang on. But there was too
much hang-on altogether. Brown would put up a
whirling riot with anyone he didn’t want to cling to
so affectionately. This evening the Wool and hair
were not on tap. Brown’s nose and mouth leaked
most of the time, but not excessivelv. and his face
was much bruised. Darcy was not marked, and his
grin remained at the old address.
* * * »
By his anxiety in the opening skirmishes
at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday right it was
evident that Herb McCoy expected the little devil
which Frank O’Connor carri- - in his right glove to
provide considerable excitement. It was a good
suess. From about the third round and throughout
the subsequent proceedings O'Connor was the attack-
ing force, and he distributed Mine terrific c-lonts to
the body. One, in the sixth, sent McCov flying, and
as he arose, as wobbly as a drunken fiddler on stilts,
the referee ended the disturbarc-e. O’Connor looks
like becoming another Milburn Saylor, only more so.
» » • *
Yankee motor-cyclist Erwin G. Baker has
evidentlv taken note of the persistency of his Presi-
dent. Woodrow Wilson. Last week he set out on
the Mortlake-Terang-Xoorat round trip to sec how
many miles he could cover in 21 hours, riding a
7-h.p. Indian. A sticking valve delayed him at the
start, birt he got away at 7.15 p.m., and covered
200 miles in shrs. ISmin. Then he lest 53 minim -
in altering his riming, hut that only made him tear
along faster through the darkness. With the dawn,
wind and rain held him to 10 miles ar. hour, but
on the home trip he got up to 70. At 6.35 a.m. he
had covered 500 miles: then an extra-hard bump
broke his front spring, and 23 minutes were lost
in replacing it. He was slithering along to make up
the deficit when petrol, spilled over the machine
when filling the tank, caught fire, and he lost a few
more minutes, in spite of rain and wind he wa s
soon pelting along furiously, when the everlasting
cow got in the road, awl in dodgirg her he ran into
a boulder and broke the frame. That would have
stopped most men, fcnt Baker got a blacksmith to
splice the fracture, and then tore off to recover the
two hours lost. He had covered 930.2 miles when
time ran out: but he had easilv beaten C. W.
Kerne’s previous world's record of Sol miles 335
yards, made in 3. A ns. in December. ’l3. Baker'-
average speed works out at 38.76 miles per hour, or
46.6 allowing for time lost through accidents. With
k he reckons he eould cover 1200. but luck wddom
Ids good for 24 hours on a- speeding motor-bike.
Writes the Dunlop Co.: “The price of
rubber has almost doubled during the past few
weeks. Should the present high rates hold it pro-
bably means increased cost for all classes of tyres
—cycle, motor and vehicle —at an early date.''
Mails from U.S.A. report that A.
Grenda, of Tasmania, and his partner F. Hill won
the Boston six-days' bicycle race. Distance covered
1409 miles, which is about 25 miles better than the
previous best for the race. MeXamara and Spears,
both of X. S. Wales, brought up second.
* * * *
One trade is booming, anyhow, despite the
war. Aliek McNeil, of Garratts, Ltd., who handle the
Fiat ear in N.S.W., has a cable from the big Fiat
headquarters in Italy saying that the firm at the
end pf January will ship to Australia in one act 52
' cars, having a total value of £41.965. This is a
second shipment, and gives a good idea of the popu-
larity in this country of the automobile made by the
nation which Austria can't strafe.
The proclamation of the Bosch Magneto
Co. as an enemy firm should mean no trouble for
anybody in the British or Australian motor-trade.
Ir. England several firms are already making mag-
netos as good as the Bosch; and in Australia the
same thing has been done by Ernest Machin, a
brainy native whose special line is the manufacture
of scientific instruments. The all-Australian aero-
plane-eqgice lately made for the Defence authorities
by Tarrant's, of Melbourne, contains one of these
Machin-made artieles in its innards.
» * * *
The record for the motor-cycle run from
Hobart to Launceston (122 miles), put up by
Yankee Erwin G. Baker, wa> r.ot allowed to go long
unchallenged. E. Bayles, the Hobart crack motor-
cyclist, had a slap at it the other day, and would
have smashed it but for an accident. Bayles put 92
milts behind him in one hour 39 minutes, and then
lost his exhaust valve tappet and had to quit. If
he had kept up the same lick for the last 30 miles
he would have got through in two hours 15 minutes,
against Baker’s two hours 371 minutes. Anyway, he
did the 92 miles in one hour 39 minutes, while
Baker took one hour 58 minutes to reel off 100
miles. Bayles means to trv again shortlv.
* * * •
D. Resta. on the new wooden motor-track
at Noo Yark, recently in an exhibition ten-mile
ran, to show how fast he could go when reaUy in a
hurry, wiped the distance out in smin. 32 4-ssec.
This isn’t the world’s best, for at Brooklands (Eng.),
in February. 1914. L. G. Hornsted tore over the dis-
stance in smin. 19sec., equal to 113 miles an hour.
* • * *
There is to be a dark horse from Sonth
Aus. in the motor-boat championship on January 29.
E. S. Rymill’s Tortoise, 200-h.p., has been putting up
big performances in regattas on the lakes near the
Murray mouth, so S.A. will be represented in Sydney
Harbor for the first time.
* i * *
Who says the racing world isn't taking
the war seriously ? The last revision of the Aus-
tralian Rules of Racing has been published, and it
is now provided that disqualifications for competing
at unregistered meetings are not to apply to any
race for bona-fide troop horses approved of by the
military. Previously tins dispensation applied' only
to polo ponies.
“KNOCK-OUT"
BROWN.
Um : Ikey gets it in the neck sometimes.
For I went out -to Randwick for a flutter,
on Xew dear’s Day, and the first race saw me with a
shilling. I decided to risk the lot, 10 to 1 Enter-
tainer. Result, 11s. Whereupon I put the odd bob
in my pocket, and invested 10s. on The Mogul
at 8. Return, £ 4 10s. The odd 10s.” having been
put down south, Merritnee was my nest choice at
< to 2. That £4 returned £lB, and £l4 went on
The Fortune Hunter for the'Curi. HcXoses expressed
great xrher. he handed me £ll2 oxer this
7to 1 chanced I had almost decided to button up,
but Vauntness for the Xurserv seemed to be asking
someoiie to back her at S to 1. so after £l4 had settled
on top of what was in the refrigerator, on went £9B,
aud Ikey passed out £BB2. Placing £9B in safety, I
let- Grail carry £784 in the Welter, and Israel
yielded up £8624. Balance-sheet shows a return from
one shilling of £8740 10s.. after having played safe
on every race except the first. But, of course, you
have to take Ikey the right wav to do this regu-
larly.
• * * *
A trotting record that should stand for
some time went on the date at Auckland (M.L.) at
Christmas time to the credit of the crack Maori-
land pacing mare Country Belle, when she left the
two miles behind in 4min. 22 4-ssec. This is a
rew Arsiralasian record, the previous best being
Denver Iluon's 4min. 28 l-ssec., put up on the
same track two rears ago. The Auckland club held
out a purse of lOOsovs. as a temptation to fracture the
record, and offered to add a further loOsovs. if the
time was beaten by over four seconds. Country Belle
clipped off 5 2-osecs. The Club shelled out gladly,
for it cot the best exnibition of trotting ever seen
outside of Uncle Samland for its money. The time
i- a world's record for a mare, and shows that the
trotting nags of M.L. are getting close to the best
times recorded in country. The world’s
record is 4min. lisec., made by the famous Dan
Patch at Lexington (TJ.S.A.) in 19'.8. On Yankee
tracks under Yankee methods Country Belle could
probably get cb.-e to those figures. She has row
been sent to the stud in the hope that she will pro-
•nce a string of flying machines.
* * * *
“Jim Carraway’*: Although the Kvneton
fVic.l Show committee will not offkdaHv recognise
the big jump put up (7ft. 4iin.) bv J. G. Robin’3
ancient Snowflake, owing to the fauitv state of the
jumping ground for record measurement purposes, the
grev 3 jump still stands as a splendid achievement.
Snowflake (previously named Captain) has had
chequered career during the 24 years he has been
earning oats. Originally at the jumping game the
old, draughtv-looking warrior found his way into tne
shafts of a' monkey-scoop when the big Yaranga
Basin embankment was in course of erection
about 12 years ago. There he was rescued from
oblivion, and is now the best high-jumper in the
Commonwealth. The prad's latest achievement was
to beat Judd's Bandolier, on New Years Day, at tne
(Vic.) Sports. Bandolier was brought
500 miles from Blayney (N.S.M.) to do the trick,
and failed. Snowflake, with Gracie Baugh in the
pigskin, flew away with the boodle like a grass-
hopper,» . * •
The speedy Eurobin, after winning six-
furlong sprints at Caulfield and Flemington, carried
top-weight to the fore in a seven-furlongs go at Caul-
field last Saturday. Giving 311 b. to the runner-up,
Eurobin won by only half a head, in Imin. 28sec., so
the performance hardly stamped him as a bobby-
dazzler over short courses. But if he can stay as
respectably as he sprints this good-looking nag will
make a name for himself.
* * * *
When the Maoriland champion M arstep
broke down the other day in the Auckland Cup a
profitable piece of machinery went wrong. Warstep
owed nothing to anybody. She started 30 times and
only nine times was beaten out of place. Her 12
wins and occasional seconds and thirds meant
£10,190 in stake money for her owner, Dalgety.
As a four-year-old she won three Cups, dead-heated
for another, was third for the fifth, and in the rush
for the remaining utensil arrived next to the winner.
There was always much controversy about the rela-
tive merits of Warstep and Reputation. She was a
real good mare, anyhow, perhaps the best of her sex
turned out over vonder.
* * * *
During the last week of 1915, after 1 1
months of the most devastating war in history,
Maoriland indulged wildly in what the wowsers are
labelling “a riot of gambling.’'" In the six days there
were no less than 23 race meetings, and the huge
sum of £ 550,000 poured in and out of the tote.
M.L. has never been so prosperous, but that’s largely
because she can still tap Uncle Israel for a loan and
sell her butter and frozen cow at war prices to J.
Bull—for whom Uncle Israel is also keeping the pot
boiling.
• • • •
The only Australian-bred stallions in the
past season’s winning list in Fogland are Fitz-Graf-
ton, one winner, one race, value £277 ; and The Vic-
tory, one winner, one race, value £136. No wonder
that a lot of Englishmen entertain the delusion that
any kind of a decrepit hack can win races in this
country.
* • • •
Racegoers must have their Saturday's
sport, but they don’t always get it where they look
for it. Those who went to Aspendale (Vic.) on
January 8 fled from the dusty, sweltering city to a
course laid out on hot, black sand. The first race
was won by a favorite, at 5 to 2, but thereafter a
steady procession of outsiders left most of the
“sportsmen'’ stony. It was Noses who had the sport.
Baiting his hook much as usual, he drew up a
plump, juicy flathead every time.
• • • •
No one has been rushing around offering
hatfuls of cash for a yearling this season in Maori-
land, but 550 of the Riddiford guineas are now in-
vested in a Bomfomi —Class filly, one of a bunch
offered at the New Year sales by W. G. Stead. It
was the highest price realised during the day, and
is accounted for by the recent smart performances of
Eligible, a three-year-old brother of the expensive
lady. They are also brother and sister of Bon Ton,
who was brought over to Australia a couple of
seasons ago with Bon Reve, but hasn’t done very
much since. The dam of this trio. Class (
La Toscai is an Australian mare purchased by the
late G. G. Stead, father of the present owner, for
stud purposes.
* * » »
“Rangan”: I went to a Bananaland pony
meeting, and after the first race headed for the
books. They and the public were making a fearful
row. “We ain't paying. 5 ’ says my man. “The
race is being nm over again.” “Why?” I asked.
He looked annoyed, and yell eel the odds. A quiet
man beside me explained. “Yer See,” he remarked,
“they couldn’t help but - run it off again: the
wrong un won.” He stopped me in the middle of
my commentary and said: ‘lt is pretty certain you
don’t come here often. Well, if you want to follow
up the game a bit. here's a tip. Get on the com-
mittee.” He was the chairman.
* * » *
Queenstown;'! M.L. ). the picturesque town
on the shores of Lake Wakatipu. had its 50th race-
meeting recently. In the early days when the
district wasvfuU of wild miners with gold to melt
the meeting was an important one. offering the
biggesk Stakes in Otago, and. in spite of the diffi-
culty of getting to the snot, attracting some of the
best nags in the South Island. Dan O’Brien, Car-
bine’s first owner, often showed his colors at the
lake-side. Owners used to take with them marquees
in which to stable their prads on the course. Three
miles was the fashionable distance at the meetings,
so it seems. that in those davs. at any rate, there
was something in the gag about racing improving
the breed of horses.
* * • *
“Haka”: At a Maoriland country race
meeting the last rider to arrive home in the back
race was Te Pene. In response to a tremendous
ovation he pulled up and took the crowd into his
confidence: “I can’t help it te laugh,” he said, “I
saddle up te wrong horse.”
* * * *
Applegarth had deserted the running track
in Fogland when the last mail left, and had entered
for the great crawl to Berlin. This means that his
running days are over. Another well-known ped.
who has gone to the Front i- Charlie Bergmeier, of
Australia, the acknowledged half-mile champion of
the planet
* * » •
B<>wlers in Dunedin (M.T..) are weeping
into their whusky just now because W. MeLaren*.
the finest player the Sc-iwtc-h metropolis lias pro-
duced, decorates the green there no longer. He
ba= just been given command of a big O-amani
fM.L.) school. The most famous bowl trondler in
M L., he visited Australia with the All White team
in 1906. and bagged the Singles Championship of
the continent. He has been singles champion of
M L., champion of champions in Dunedin, champion
of bis own club, and has helped to win doubles and
rink everts from Three Kings to The Bluff
* * * »
The flutter in Sydney golf last week was
the challenge match between J- Kirkwood and D
Sou ter (professionals) and E. Apperley and T
Jioward (amateurs). The pros, made a fine start hv
having four down at the midday halt; but in the
afternoon the amateurs shook things up so vigorously
that the pros, struggled out with only one stroke tn
spare at the last hole. The gate (£3O) goes to
charity. ° J
* * » *
Some fine Ma State oarsmen among recent
enlistments: J. Goswell and E. Cody (who both hari
seats in N.S.W. rep. eights of 1913 and 1914) s H
Knight (of Enterprise, last year’s champions) Jack
English and J. Coyle (Leichhardt). Other athletes
who recently put on khaki include the brothers Bede
Desmond and Les McCarthy (A.A.A.), Ted Fahev
(K.l . rep. for the past six years), and G. Liggj ns
(Cyclists’ Union secretary since 1907). Incidentally
with the closing of the Country Lawn Tennis Garni’
val a large number of players will swap flannel for
khaki. The Wee Waa team consisted of one man
this year, and of the Forbes contingent every single
member has enlisted. M hen the roll is made up in
N. S. Wales there will he about 1000 racquet
swingers on it
* * * *
From the start tennis clubs have been
good recruiting centres. Gerald 1.. Patterson, holder
of the Australasian and Victorian Doubles Champion-
ship, is the latest to doff the white flannels of a
harmless life and get into khaki. The young man
(who, by the way, is a nephew of Melba) would have
done this earlier, but an operation for appendicitis
kept him back. The Australasian and Victorian
Singles Champion, A. O. Wood, a nephew of just-dead
Justice Holrovd, was doing his bit alreadv. He is a
lieutenant in the Flying Corps.
* * * *
The sparkle of Sydney baseball on Satur-
day was the belting that Waverley (last year’s pre-
miere) received from Leichhardt—ll runs to 2.
It was a rattling game to the end of the fifth
innings (one all) ; but in the sixth effort Leich-
hardt buckled up the opposing combination and
smote eight runs. Waverley fell down dead
and kept on being dead until the end.
Pitcher Harold Franks earned the halo of
the match by keeping Waverley down to
two runs, and making four safe hits. After
taking it easy on the slab for a while this season,
Franks has got his eye in again. Although
Waverley still holds a lead in the premiership rush
anything may happen in the days to come. That's
one of the most interesting things about the days
to c-ome.
• * * *
“Jersey” Watson, a merry-hitting Sydney
cricketer, put up a vigorous effort the other day
when, in smiting together 205 runs, he got 152 in 38
bashes to the boundarv. That’s the tonic.
* ♦ * *
In a recent match between East Hobart
and We~t Hobart K. Watt knocked up 210 not out
for East in four hours. Next day they met he took
eight wickets in West’s second innings for 63 runs,
ar:d, incidentally, did the hat-trick.
“D. P.- Platt’’: There is nothing unique
about birds flying on the Randwick (Sydney) rifle
range while the rifles are busy. On the Williams-
town f Vic.) range I often see them through the
hopping about on the ground between the
firing-point and the target, taking no notice at all
of the bullets whistling through the air a few
feet above them. The other Saturday when we were
firing at a thousand yards three horses walked
quietly across the line of fire about half-way down
the range. They were in no danger; the bullets
were many feet above them. Often on Sir Henry
Halford's private range at Wistow (Eng.), when
the boss was shooting at long range, the haymakers
in the field between him and the target would go
on with their work knowing that they were quite
safe. The builets were a long way above them, and
Halford was a careful shot. On the open-air minia-
ture range of one of the clubs I belonged to in
England the 25-yards butt was a wooden structure
about 12ft. high, and in a cavity in the top right-
hand corner two birds built a nest ar.d reared a
brood quite undisturbed by the lead rapping into
the butt a few feet below them. Another club I
belonged to had a pistol range consisting of a
horeeshoe-shaped earth bank with the targets in the
bend and the firing-point across the opening. One
summer a partridge built her nest in the grass of
the bank only a few yards from the muzzles of the
pistols and revolvers.
* * * *
P. M. Poore, just made a brigadier-
general, joined the Hampshire county cricket team a
dozen years ago. and proceeded to smash records. Scores
of 1000 runs in a season are always officially chroni-
cled. but Poore hit up 1366 in seven weeks. Just
when English cricket thought it had discovered
another Grace his military duties took him to Africa,
where he piled up centuries against the visiting
M.C.p. team from England. Although a crack
tennis player, champion poloist and first-class shot.
Poore evidently didn’t neglect his job, and scored
his high promotion at an unusually early age.
A GOSFORD IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love to float in a little boat
__ On the stream in the after-glow,
And watch the fishers set their lines
For the fish that they never know,
Though I must admit it is time to flit
When the prawns begin to “go.”
"Tis joy to glide on the sluggish tide
That sweeps through the mangrove trees
With a maiden sitting on either side
And another upon my knees,
Till I'm made aware by the scented air
That the prawn is on the breeze.
Chorcs of Agoxt.
The prawn is on the breeze, dear hearts,
The prawn is on the breeze!
Oh, it’s hard to go
When I love you so
But —Lord spare me days irhen it starts!
The pratcrt —THE PRAWS!
The blighting, destroying, irithering,
headless green PRAWN
Is on the breeze!
}v.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


Don’t Wait for a Beating Before Yon
Learn to Box.
Are you going to do the sensible thing? Be prepared to defend
yourself in a convincing way.
Few know how to make the most of effective and scientific use
of their natural means of attack and defence. That is just one
of the many sound reasons why YOU should be a skilful Boxer,
and possess the advantage over your fellows. I can make you a
scientific and effective Boxer.
I Teach Boxing by Post.
So you’ve no excuse for remaining crude and inex-
perienced—a good target for the first “bully’’ who
torments you.
Let me make you a cool, determined, scientific
boxer with a substantial punch and effective guard—-
a manly man, well able to look after himself and
win the respect of others.
And what a delightful pastime you’ll And my
tuition! What a valuable exercise for body and
brain.
Here is what one pupil says:—
“Before starting on your instructions 1 thought
a fighter was born. I am now satisfied that your
lessons will make almost any man an efficient
fighter.’’—G.M.R. Peeramon, Q.
Write for my illustrated booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in your Home,” which gives fuller particulars and
cost of tuition. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement and post to me. I’ll know
what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BAKER
459 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
va
IF YOU ENJOY
a mild yet fine-flavored cigar, with a deliglit-
•ful'aroma, I'should like you to try iny
Club Royal
“ Cabinets ”
If you don’t like them you can return them,
and' I will only charge you for those smoked.
This is a very fair offer, isn’t it? It proves
too that I have confidence in my goods.
“CLUB ROYALS” are hand-made from the
finest Havana Leaf. They are a particularly
good smoke, anel will satisfy even the most
critical taste.
In Handsome Cedar Cabinets
of 50, 20/-
P on 50: N.S.W., Od.
Inter-State, 1/2.
Sample Packet of Post Free,
2/6.
Write for a copy of my Catalog of Tobaccos,
Cigars, Cigarettes and all Smokers’
Requisites.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
5^
FROM
FREMANTLE to
SYDN EY
BENZINE
THE SPIRIT MAT BROUGHT MEM THROUGH
SHELL
BENZIN
Ask Yourself These
Questions when Purchasing
Has the machine PROVED its superi= fy
ority in open competition ■
Is it easy to drive, simple of control and ry
luxurious to ride *
Does it possess ample reserves of power fy
for all exigencies
Has it been built to last ?
Shall I get 20 suitings in the £ value for ty
the money 1 spenj ■
Ask the man who rides an
ffindicm
Catalogue D Post Free request.
Rhodes Motorcycle Co.,
109-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
THE HIGHEST STANDARD
ms
.
of footwear excellence is fully upheld in
RIGNEY SHOES. In quality, style, tit,
price and every detail they are sure to gi\ e
you the utmost satisfaction.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf Ihree-
Button Shoe, Smart American Shape. “Non-
Tread-Over’ Brand.
Price - 32!6
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
TKE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
h i:
*
m
THE BEST FOR ALL,
-Athletes
J,
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
ft
Eucalyptus Oil,
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
III! Australian Remedy '
for Colds, Bronchitis, i
Rheumatism, etc.
► CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
} PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
“Oft
zjr
.V *
rnmM
n
1
m
\
■*
THE LAST WORD IN RANAHA VALUES.
A Real Panama—the Genuine Native Leaf —Finely Made —
Light—Cool—Comfortable. Shape as shown. Wide or Narrow
Brim.
POST FREE 21/-
You couldn’t possibly get anything better at the price, and this
Ilat will please you, so —
POST YOUR ORDER NOW!
Lincoln, Stuart & Co Pty. Ltd.
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,”
244-754 Flinders ftreet
Melbourne.


“Biff” Gladdens
Sore, Tired Feet
Tender Feet, Sore Feet, Swollen Feet
cured without delay. New Foot
Medicine Quickly Banishes All
Foot Ailments
“My feet
just ache
for ‘Biff’ ”
w
m
s*?-
. v
To those who are troubled with sore, tender,
aching, swollen, perspiring, unpleasant smelling
feet, bunions, corns or hard skin, “BIFF” will
bring quick relief and gladness to the feet. Use
“BIFF” today and banish all pain and discomfit.
By using “BIFF” once a week you will insure
your feet against all foot troubles. “BIFF” is a
scientific compound which draws out all poisonous
matter from the feet, which clog and choke pores
of the skin. One application of this unique com-
pound will render the feet sweet and antiseptic.
Its delightful results must be experienced to be
believed.
MRS. CARTER WRITES : —For years my feet
gave me much trouble. It was purgatory to
have to walk far, but after using one box of
“Biff” I Can walk with perfect ease and com-
fort, there is nothing to compare with your
preparation for foot trouble.”
“Biff” can be obtained through all chemists and
stores ; if not in stock send direct to the manu-
facturers. Price Is. 6d. per box, or triple size box
4s. (triple box contains three times the Is.6d. size).
The “Biff” Manufacturing Co., 114 a Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Have You a BAD LEG
perhaps surrounded with inflammation and
swollen, that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. ton may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which you will find a certain remedy.
Also for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid Knees, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
-Qaii be obtained at any Drug Store.
British Prices, 1/3 and 37-
albert & CO., Albert House, Farringdon St.,
Agents —- LONDON, Eng.
ELLIOTT BROS.
W. 11. SOI L PATTIXSOX & CO.
AI'STRALIAX DRI'O CO.
VXTHOXY HORDERX & SOXS, etc. „
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
“I simply can’t account for this
trouble with my teeth—and I’ve
been so particular to keep them
immaculately clean always.” This
is the complaint of thousands.
It’s just this way, Madam.
You’ve spent your time watching
the highwaymen robbers of tooth-
health—Decay Germs —and for-
got all about their sly, insidious
accomplice, “Acid Mouth.” Acid?
are constantly forming in the
mouth. They are constantly
“working.” But they work
“incognito.”
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
and break down the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easv prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “acid mouth,”
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
Send 3d. Stamps for sample
tube and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
PEBECO is Made in Australia bv
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’ Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [6
li
THIS year the dainty foot daintily shod
comes into its own. Never were skirts
shorter or fuller, nt /ev were shoes more in
evidence. So the .mart woman will hail
with joy the arrival of ,h'.- new linstock styles
for the season, since the' e are more (.iptivating
than ever. The shoe here illustrated, for example,
is typically charming. Cut from that most
elegant of materials, patent leather, made in
that new’, short-fronted P tench shape which
makes every foot look so a relied and delightful,
this is the shoe of shoes to give a telling finish
to one’s new’ walking suit or j.r vn. And it is only
one shoe amongst many eoualy desirable.
Bostock styles now’ on tiew ,a the leading stores.
Bo dock No.
Q 958.3
mm
m
m
None genuine
unless stamper!
“Bostock."
830
Unmistakable in style, cut and finish,
and the name “Bostock - ’ on the soles.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
the
ORIGINAL
AND ONLY
GENUINE
■* ' ‘ 1 ‘" ” " ' ' ' VtY>YVWY>YV
PHOSFERINE
1/-2/6-4/6
0/ all Chemists
Sold
BSflllSP
O
\ta%^¥ rr T
it>tC nf~S _ A r*i D—’
DtP°lv
s,l«ter
viicr** \ : Z&s’ghz
1» V 9S
f*r*«LTl——:
"fnrocjDhour Australasia i
A and the tff
&rilTsh *
, Empire ff
If sen ed
with a sub-
stitute not
bearing the
name Ashton
& Parsons
Ltd., post the
__ package to 408
Collins St., Melb.,
when the genuine
article will be for-
warded and the cost
of postage refunded.
A PROVED REMEDY
FOR
AJ ETKVOU-SrvTErSa.
liNDIOESTION
/X.
Supphed by ROY/QL COMMANDS fo
the: royal ram/ly
H.I.M The Empress op Russia.
h - M The KinB of- Spam,
RM. The Kmg of Greece,
ri.Pt. The Queen oßßoamania
Efc. EEc. dk.
PHOSFERI/NE
Ensures Vigorous
Healt'K and gives
Srrengrh and Energy.
Gbe Grant) prlorv of
Ctx »i6tr ol It* Dwptttl ft St. John
F' •< SttaMlem. in Enplane.
LADY slocgett 20th July, 1915
Messrs. Ashton 4 Parsons, Ltd.,
Gentlemen,
We are requested by the Com-
missioners of the St. John Ambulance
Aasociation at Havre and elsewhere
to supply, for use in the Base
Hospitals. 1,000 2/9 bottles of
Phosferine.
They inform us that your remedy
is in constant requisition by the
Field Hospitals, and from the reports
they receive, it is held ir. high
esteem as a Tonic possessing valuable
recuperative qualities.
I shall be obliged by your imme-
diate attention, as it is necessary
to get the Phosferine forwarded to
France as quickly as possible.
(Lady) Helen S. Sloggett
p - s - —You are quite at liberti
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Wh, net give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Harrison O.”: Archbishop Wright’s de-
nunciation of “Twin Beds” on the strength
of its posters is typical of the beautiful inno-
cence of a certain brand of clerical mind. I
have not seen those pictures, but any male
who has past the stage of yearning to visit a
circus because of the posters depicting
crowded rings in which 26 varieties of wild
animals disport themselves, while 59 distinct
acrobatic turns are in progress, knows how
futile it is to attempt to form an estimate
of a show by its posters. There has never
yet been a melodrama that has lived up to
its hoarding thrills, and many a voluptuary
has had his hopes raised by musical-comedy
posters only to have them dashed to the stalls
carpet by reality. As a follower of the
drama who has often gone to gloat and re-
mained to yawn, I would not mind wagering
the value of this par. against next Sunday’s
collection at St. James’s that if the Archbish.
visited “Twin Beds” he would find it about
as demoralising as one of his own sermons.
Anyhow, it ill becomes any clergyman who a
year or two ago insisted upon nightgowns
having a place in the ritual of his church
to object to a play which makes more or less
of a feature of pyjamas.
“J.F.H.”: Pinero has published his latest
play, "The Big Drum,” in a modest eighteen-
penny pamphlet. Its run of a hundred per-
formances at St. James’s has just come to a
close. At first it looked like a chilly frost,
being coldly received by the critic and
found disagreeably depressing by the play-
goer. But Pinero reconstructed the piece
and provided it with a happy ending, and
this seems to have saved it from collapse and
withdrawal. In its published form he
adheres to his original manuscript, declaring
in a prefatory note that the alterations were
made “against my principles and against my
conscience, and yet not altogether unwill-
ingly”—which paradox he explains by stat-
ing that “in such times it is the first duty of
a writer for the stage to make concessions
to his audiences.” and, above everything else,
to “try to afford them complete if brief dis-
traction from the gloom which awaits them
outside,”
11. B. Irving has considered the American
cables good enough to warrant him in secur-
ing the English rights of Knoblauch’s new
piece, and he proposes making “Paganini”
his next production at the London Savoy.
“Morbid Bill" : In the belief that suicide
lends interest to the view, a friend who owns
a slice of rugged waterfront took us scram-
bling round the rocks last Sunday to view
the exact ledge a desperate stranger had
dived off some four years previously. After
we had measured the drop with our eves and
shuddered at the flat, wave-washed rock
where the unfortunate landed. I remembered
the icily-calm and over-entertained English-
man who happened to arrive at some Aus-
tralian show water-falls just as a shouting
maniac made his leap into foam and eternity.
'A d—d silly performance !” was the irritable
comment of the distinguished witness. “Find
out who pays him and don’t let him do it
again while I’m here!”
“Slapstick” : It is quite obvious that the
cocksure “Homespun Critic” doesn't know
what_ he is writing about when he says
“Lewis aller’s Silver King wasn’t in the
same street as Clarence Brune’s.” It mav
surprise “Homespun,” though it won’t sur-
prise anyone else, to hear that neither Lewis
Waller nor Clarence Brune ever played the
part,, in Sydney. So the “odious compari-
sons” he draws so carefully don’t apply and
his valuable ignorance has been wasted. It
may tickle the vanity of “Homespun” to find
himself amongst the rapier-play of the Pov-
erty Point column, falling over his own feet
and those of such master-rivals as “Harrison
O. ’ and “Mid-Channel” ; but before he ven-
tures in again, he had better sit awhile in the
gallery and learn the rudiments of the game.
I now withdraw in the hope that “Home-
spun may be able to find some excuse for
intruding here.
[Private P.S. for Editor.—Dear Sir,—lf you have
not yet printed the contribution of “Home-
spun please defer publication of the above para-
gi aph. I may say that we have fixed up to go in
l?, 1 '. thls literary cross-talk game and have a nice
little act fixed up which several managers have
described as real bright. But do vou please see to
it that ‘Homespun” gets in his bit first. I will
look a darned fool if I start contradicting a state-
ment which has not yet been made.—Yours truly.
George Washington Lusitania.]
“Gin Fiz”: A lot has been said of the
failure of “A Pair of Sixes.” In my esti-
mation not one critic has hit the bull’s eye.
The piece failed because John Webster
looked like a butler when he became one.
'' hat is more, I will have to be convinced
that he wasn’t one previously. What a pity
Beau. Smith didn't produce the play! The
I irm borrowed a couple of his people—Ethel
Dane and Tom Shelford—to play parts thev
were not sure of. Smith would have given
Shelford \\ ebster’s role, and Australia would
probably still be laughing instead of trving
to forget how it was bored.
STRAIGHT FROM THE SPRUIKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A thorough artist—and you -know
I’m no prevaricator—
Is the head-liner “Mario,
Female Impersonator” ;
No man, to swear I will engage,
So like a woman on the stage,
No act here billed is greater!
In make-up, costume, airs and grace,
All mimics in the shade lie
Puts easily, in form and face
He’s It—a perfect lady !
'Women who nightly cram the show
Copy the “style” of Mario
(In private, Mike O’Grady!).
Complete in ev’ry detail is
II is turn; there’s not another
Male star who draws one half the biz,
All rivals he can smother.
Walk up! An artist through and through—
Why, like all lady-artists do,
He travels with his mother!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Wk
!ss?»s>s?
a
Which Piano Shall I Buy?
The question becomes increasingly perplexing on each
announcement of fresh agencies for imported pianos, never
previously represented in Australia, all advertised as “the
best” and specially selected to replace the cheap German
pianos, which, although still advertised, for an obvious
reason are now unobtainable —thanks to the British Navy.
Apart from “patriotic reasons” Beale Pianos and
Beale Player-Pianos, made in Australia, have chief claim
to your confidence. They are manufactured specially to
suit Australian conditions, and for general excellence are
quite unequalled. Their popularity is not due to the
patriotic feeling engendered by the war, but on account of
their unsurpassed tonal quality, undoubted durability and
beautiful appearance. Over three times as many Beale
Pianos were sold before the war as any other make of
imported piano, and the steady, constant rise in the sale of
the more expensive models—horizontals, player-pianos and
uprights—proves the growing appreciation of the dis-
criminating musical class in Australia who demand
superlative quality.
Beale Pianos are sold for cash or on easiest possible
terms, and we make full allowances for old instruments in
part payment.
Beale Pianos do not have to support, importers'
enormous charges nor Customs duty (40%, or 8/- in the £),
but are delivered direct from the factories to your home.
©
Head Office & Factories: 41=47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Showrooms
136 a-b Liverpool Street. Sydney; 232 King Street, Newtown; 14 Oxford
Street' Paddington; and at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore. Newcastle, Goulburn,
Wagga', Adelaide (S.A.), Melbourne, Perth, Brisbane Rockhampton,
Maryborough, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns (Queensland).


The least
exertion,
whether it
be work or
pleasure,
seems to
quickly tire
you out and
makes you
feel weak
and languid.
This means
that both
your mental
and physical
vitality is low. It may be caused
by too much work, worry or
pleasure, but a course of
Fisher s Phospherine,
THE GREAT NERVE TONIC,
quickly restores the system to its
normal condition, and gives you the
vim and vigor necessary to enjoy
both work and pleasure.
In cases of Indigestion, Back-
ache. Malaria, Headache, Brain-
fag, Nervousness and Muscular
Rheumatism—Fisher’s Plios-
pherine is the remedy which for
forty years has been unequalled.
All Chemists and Stores, 1/-
per bottle. Four times the
quantity, 2/6.
Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
F.149.P.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aunsts of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times
and powerful
s efficient
is the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on ererjf occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illnstrated
booklet and particulars of onr Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard's Buildings. 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 5916 City
SYDNEY.
Hears Ear Phone Co Inc. .45 West 34th St New York
The LUCKY GEM of the EAST
Brings Luck and Happiness to everyone.
Must be worn on the person.
The lucky LUXARIA la real gem) is
supplied by an Indian Brahmin, or High Priest,
and is an emblem oi prosperity.
If it brings you luck, as it has done for
thousands of others, tell your friends.
Posted free to all parts of Australia. 2/6 each.
Sole Agents—ALLAN HARRiS & CO. LTD.,
Cem Merchants. BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
Every Dinner Table
this Summer will serve
Ice Creams or Iced
Fruits and so
ARNOTT’S
“ADORA”
CRE A M
WAFERS
will be in popular demand
These Wafers are ar.iqne in erery
wav, being iu>: ha :' the sire of oar
oniinarv waters- and having more
cream - -c in them and a more ce-
Lcious £i.:ng Two shapes Diamond
and Piain. Ask for Amort's "Adoras.’'
They are the hues: Wafers vtw can bey.
AT ALL GROCERS
pr
Watch This Space!-
and
Don’t place an order for a Stock
Saddle till you see the Special
“Bulletin” Saddle, photo of which,
with fittings, will appear on this
space on Thursday, 3rd February.
It’s going to be a “Bully” Saddle, designed and made expressly for Bulletin
Readers, at a price (£5/10/-) to fit all pockets.
To the first person sending an order for this Saddle with a cutting from
“The Bulletin” will be presented a KING HEAD BRIDLE.
If you require anything in Saddlery, Harness or Leather Goods, send for our
Illustrated Catalogue. Tost Free
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.,
Saddlers and Harness Makers,
393 George Street and 32 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
U
99
Underwear
To see the Jason Brand on a garment
is to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert fashioning have
gone to its making.
New "Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of coit - n—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67 <f)
Druids’ Art Union.
Total Value of Prizes. £750.
Ist PRIZE. £400; 2nd PRIZE. £lOO.
Value Guaranteed.
100 Prizes. TICKETS. ONE SHILLING.
MILITARY SPORTS AT SPORTS
GROUND, JANUARY 20.
Upon receipt of postal note for 1/- ticket
will be forwarded to any part of the Com-
monwealth. Do not delay. Send postal
note and addressed envelope to the Secre-
tary,
R. A. BARRY.
<l5 George Street, Sydney.
The Preparatory School
of the Toowoomba Grammar School.
I HOARDERS and DAYBOYS up to
> THIRTEEN years of age are given
sound elementary education under the most
favorable circumstances.
The specially designed School Buildings
art situated right on the Main Range,
where the air is always fresh and invigorat-
ing and particularly beneficial to growing
boys.
I irst quarter 1910 will commence
Tuesday, Ist February.
ERNEST A. GILE.
Headmaster.
RAZOR TROUBLES ENDED
How many men fret and fume and
waste time in the morning because
they've never solved the Razor
problem. There'll be an end to
all your difficulties if you try
The “Plum” Razor
Requires but little stropping, and
its all-conquering keen edge enables
you to shave swiftly and easily for
months.
Price 10/6, Post Free.
Send your order to-day. We keep
it in perfect order for two years,
five of charge.
Single Razor. Vulcanite
Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Rouble Case. 217-
Single Razor. Ivory Handle,
13 6.
Pair in Double Case. 307-
Tins line makes a handsome present,
for our Illustrated Price List.
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG &. AITKEN,
654 STREET, SYDNEY.
established over so years.
V 1
M
IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING
ABOUT WATCHES
examine this Movement, and say if it
e possible to build a stronger
mechanism or one better calculated
to stand the roughest u<age.
f
&/>e
“MINER’S”
WATCH
is last word in tiniek«piuf acetiracv
an '\ w**r-r*dstin* quality The CASE is
*'«* St'RKW' front, and is abso-
, ,u 'e dust- and ant-proof. The siass is
***** stronsr to stand hard usage. Good
nxuetuent, with compensation balance. to
ensure correct tinse when working under
y~ r rowoitiotts. and the dial is plainly
** that tellin* tine in .lark
■ **?*? :s easy. An honest. trustworthy'
watch. Sent poet free any where for
20/-
orn GIFT CATALOGVE SeM rw Fr« ,o A(Mre »
STEWART DAWSON’S
STRAND CORNER. 4 .2 CEORr.T STR E E TAS YD N
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A 'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications xnsu/ficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
M.K.: Fine subject for a par, but poorly
handled .A. C. bitchier: The statement may have
been wrong, blit the yarn you forward doesn’t blow it
out. It isn’t a bit “remarkable” that the N.S.W.
State Government undertook to deliver three vessels
in a completed condition on a date when the keels
were actually not laid. The same X.S.W. Government
has undertaken to provide scores of things that have
not even yet been- begun—and won't he until some-
body in authority can see personal advantage for
himself in doing it... .J. McV.: The Kaiser fathers six
sons and a daughter. .. . Merrigal: Thanks. Apparently
“The Oldest” was wrong. Members of the family
assure us, anyway, that the Rouses never owned
Jlabee nor did the Coxes. It seems to have been
“old Bob Fitzgerald’s walk-about.” 8.L.8.: All
right, thank you both.... Oxide: We’ll help them to
fight for a pound or twenty-five shillings a day if the
industry will stand it. But we won’t spill a drop of
ink to help them get a five-day week. This country
and its necessities demand more work. not less....
O'P.: You’ve treated “Grandson” badly. Get to work
and give him a crisper tale. He’s well worth it....
J.G.S.: “Cairo” is very good soup of its kind ; but
there isn't much substance in it... .P.1.0.L.: The
verse isn’t signed. Why not? It certainly isn’t any-
thing to be ashamed of. Let's see some more....
Stock: Don’t think you'll do anything at verse. If
your ear were not defective, some of your alleged
rhymes would make you writhe in pain... .R.T.:
Your denunciation a trifle over the odds. Might
have gone if verse had shown originality of treatment.
.... Stone E. Broke: Pretty poor. Still you might write
a yarn if you had a subject and took infinite pains.
. ...Y.F.K.: Four alleged poems, and not one idea
in the 10t....M. I.e G.: Xo use stringing good
phrases together unless you can make the lines look
as if they meant something... .Co lex: Since “G.
Street” read your eulogy the Religious Editor has
been compelled to sit on his head.... Xative: Don’t
know whether sentiments are more rotten than verse
or verse more rotten than sentiments. .. .G.R.S.: Xo
g00d... .M.C.: Quite nice verse without one original
idea... -Skean Dhu: Scotchbyterian horror received,
read and quenched. It took a deal of quenching....
Sarto: Knock as hard as you like. You can't come in
until your verse is 17 times better than this sample.
. ...M.8.: Well, keep your man; but don't ask this
paper to make your shameful practices public....
King Mudd: Hurled out in the interests of sanitary
reform... .Yir: Can’t even guess what it means....
R.S.: Verse a bit too rough .F.W.M.: Xo chance.
But glad to know that "the eager kisses frore on her
pretty lips.” Anythirg cool must have been
acceptable this weather. .. .J.D.: Seems a bit con-
tradictory, doesn’t it? Or.e verse: —
Would that we had never met
And set our cups allow ;
Still, again I like to meet
The iittle girl I used to know.
.... A.L.8.: The same theme has been handled better
7597 times before—. 1..W.H.: ‘‘She Dieel Too Late”
is dreary nonsense. The dialect appears to be a
mixture of Cockney. Lancashire and pidgin English.
Xo Irishwoman ever talked like that W.F.: “Ad-
vertisement” is a sad business. You can't write
verse... .Mater: Well enough written, hut of no
interest to this paper John R. Q.: Verse not up.
.- T.J.H.: “My Jim” ditto... .V.R.: Where did you
steal it?—.C.S.M.: You start off by saying that
only “standard writers and advanced authors have
the privilege of being prosy.” And then you offer
us this! Charleston: If you wouldn’t “survey the
crowd from a lofty height” you might do better....
E.J.C.: Doesn't “Stoo” deserve an old-age pension
or something? It has been served hot scores of
times, ami now you offer it cold .Horace W.
Digby: Might be worth trying again: but don't
spread so small a story over so large a space.
Bellerive: One stirring item: —-
Baddy Murphv who'd been absent from his missus
ami his kids,
Fell upon a plan to face the awful Brunt,
He hired a coat of khaki ami discarded soldier's cap,
To imper-onate a returnette from the front:
He limped towards his tentement with the aid of a
stick
Where he’s frenzied missus met him at the door.
As soon as he did enter, she cried you schemire brute.
By the holy saints I'll give you bloomin war;
She struck him with a poker, and he hit her with
his stick.
When she relied hint with a saucepan on the head.
The yooijr-ter s yelled blue murder and the police
did breaketh In,
Ami poor Paddy was a-carried out for dead.
. ...E.F.T.: ‘"After the Spree is a dark mystery.
What's it all about? M.8.P.: Can’t be done.
Slick to orthodox forms till you master them....
TO AUTISTIC (AKD INARTISTIC)
O > I! U ESPONDKXTS.
D.J.: You have only a mild attack W.J.: We
are not buying puns or designs for stained-glass
windows....R.M.M.: Xow. where did you get those
Kaisei-crocogator and mouse-ir.-the-pie ideas? When
you have thought out something original try a
course at an art-school P.C.: Some humor in
them, though the whisky joke has been in the cellar
* long time. There is merely a glimmer of promise in
your pencilled - seiches.... H.F.: Xot up Fraser
P.: Ideas acceptable. Ideas always are. They are
the scarcest thing in the world.
S >nie -iau: Australians are still getting
into khaki. K. A. Hart, of Barkley (Vic.).
wh<> up the other day. reaches 6ft.
S;in., and must be pretty nearly the tallest
sapling iu the business.
A remarkable double was onee nearly
brought off by Col. Madley. who passed away
quietly in Adelaide last week at 71. Born
in YV ales, he came t- Sydney in the ‘UVs as
master at the St. James Training School,
but moved to South Aus. about !(• years
agv-. There he divided his time between
t-aching and soldiering, and was successful
at both. He declined the position of Com-
mandant of the local forces, but in 1596 took
the post of Commissioner of the Adelaide
pohee. in sui-cession to Peterswald. Before
that he nad been head of the training col-
lege for teachers, and. when the fatal acci-
dent happened to Hartley, the great chief
of the Education Department, it was real-
ised that the best man to be his successor
had decided instead t specialise as a tx>lk-e-
-man. Hadley's health r ke down about 10
years ago. and he retired to his native
W ales, but sh ‘ttly came hack. de< iarieg that
Australia is a much better laud to die in.


1
*GIOB£
tRABf % MASK 1 "'' *****
k„/:S % ■
, -TMae\
r -'
* .--rust*
-
An Eagle on a Globe
Circular Saws
Manufactured by Highly-skilled Workmen.
From Best Sheffield Crucible
Cast-Steel Plates,
Size 6in. dia. to 54in.
SAW REPAIRING A
SPECIALITY.
Engineers
“Ultra Capital”
and “Capital”
High - speed
Twist Drills.
We carry Large Stocks
In Sizes: “Ultra-Capital,’
Urn. to 4in. ; “Capital,’
sin. to 2in.
Contractors to the
N.S.W. Govt.
JH
TOOL STEELS. —“Ultra Capital” and “New Capital” High-speed Steels,
Carbon Steels. Double Extra, Best Warranted, and Warranted qualities.
MINING STEEL —Octagon, Cruciform and Hollow Sections.
Write for Full Particulars, adv ising for what purpose Steel Required.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Sheffield, England.
Australian Offices—
-379 Kent Street, Sydney; 264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Cliff Street, Fremantle. >
V.
.x.
\
■
I /
■
ft
*
Welding 18in. diameter Steel Gas
Main at Newcastle, N.S.W.,
v, by Messrs. Stewarts
& Lloyds.
w
wi
=0
<“>
I NO MORE BROKEN CYLINDERS,
COG WHEELS, etc.
rpTTt' n\v np Tiip F.YPEHT To-day is the clay of the expert—the man who knows every detail of his work
_who is thorough, efficient and up to date. The engineer who desires to reach the top of the tree in his profession must
be conversant with every engineering method which makes for speed, complete craftsmanship, and for economy.
Tjje ENGINEER WHO DOES NOT KNOW of the Oxy Acetylene process is not abreast of the times; he is
at big disadvantage, and leaves himself open to .the chaige of incompetence.
Any work of Iron or Steel welding: or cutting-can be carried out with Oxy-Acetylene. It is revolutionising
Tf the Engineering trade. Broken parts that once were useless can now be successfully welded and.made new
f again. This, too, in the matter of minutes. Cost is a matter of pence as compared with the expenditure
of pounds in the old method of buying new parts and making new drawings and castings.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remark-
able variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following are a few of the broken
and worn machinery parts our process w ill make new again:—
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes, /
Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn lveywavs in Shafts.
Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of anv kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild
Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other process.
The latest authoritative work on the subject, “A Practical Manual of
Autogenous Welding,” published b.y Charles Griffin & Co., London, states:
“Within the last few years welding by oxy-hydrogen and oxy-acetylene blow-
pipes has been applied in thousands of workshops.” rhose workshops which are
rapidly adding the process to their equipment include manufacturers, con-
tractors, machine shops, garages, blacksmiths, boilermakers, repair shops,
foundries, steel mills and railroad shops.
The Commonwealth Oxygen Co. Ltd.,
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents—
MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.
A
K *
s -
* %
. <■»
;m
/d
i , #> #£*’•»>. <
f 1
IfilSMilWi
f,
r
i ■
Fractured Cylinder Repaired by H. Williams
Oxy-Acetyleae Works, Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Colin Templeton has been selected by the
Peacock Cabinet as chairman of the new
Tramways Board. David llennessy. chief
magistrate and retired baker, is one of the
other four; so is Alexander Renfrew, a
Fitzroy furniture-dealer who sits in the local
council. The remaining pair are faithful
Liberals whose appointments may be taken
as some recompense for their disappoint-
ments. Henry Weedon. ex-M.L.A. for East
Melbourne, is one; lawyer Frederick Hick-
ford. of Brunswick, the other. Excepting
the chairman, they are all members of the
Tramways Trust and will each get £250 per
annum. The chairman is to have an extra
hundred, and the new Board is to start its
hard labors (loud applause) at the end of
June, for a limited period. The attitude
of old-fashioned Liberalism towards the
Peacock tramway proposals is one of digni-
fied disapproval; but the fogies find some
satisfaction in the fact that the Board
has been kept in the family.
Though late Chief Justice Way, of South
Aus., was the oldest Judge in any British
Court outside Britain, haviug completed just
on 40 years of service, the head of the
Government that gave him the job is still
alive and fairly hearty. It was James Penn
Boucaut, who presently himself went on
the Bench, and is now South Australia’s one
pensioner. Curiously, to get on the Treasury
benches, they threw out, among others. W.
H. Bundey; and then for 20 years these
three decorated the law bench together.
From London :
War-lime is making hay of all old conventions.
Afternoon shows are everywhere, with evening per-
formances occasionally. Philharmonic concerts now
start at the curious hour of 6.15. One hard-work-
ing theatre co. tries a Saturday performance at
6.15. Another offers prizes for the best sugges-
tions from patrons as to a starting-time for its
pantomime. Another plays at 5.30 three times a
week. Tree announces that the formerly utterly
indispensable evening-drtss at a night show in his
theatre is “purely optional.” Wyndham’s goes fur-
ther, and calls it “optional but unfashionable.”
Finally, a male chorus is becoming so rare as to
cause strong comment wherever it does appear, and
one or two theatres announce proudly that neither
on the stage nor “behind” is any man of military
age employed.
The logic and wisdom of the Hobart
Mercury, discussing tariff reform and the
knocking out of German trade: —
Sir Robert Peel never took a wiser decision than
when he resolved to combat foreign duties against
England by free imports, whence sprang for Britain
the cheap living and consequent cheap everything,
labor included, that put her at the head of the trade
of the world. We do not say this trade success has
been an unmixed good for the Old Country. On the
contrary, unrestricted competition and unchecked
greed between them have gone pretty far to make a
hell of England, Scotland and Wales, and to turn the
great majority of their inhabitants into helots.
After this the Mercury proceeds to de-
nounce the idea of a tariff wall against
Germany and expresses horror at anything
which will “throw Freetrade out of gear.”
Evidently the Mercury reckons it a great
thing to live in Hell.
It is London Times now that stands hat-off
in front of Will Dyson, “who lifts the Eng-
lish cartoon far above its old-day level.”
Dyson’s art is summed up as “contrasting
right and wrong in visible shapes, giving an
aesthetic turn to moral questions, and show-
ing the ugliness of evil, and the beauty of
good.”
A _ young Victorian named Michael
McGinness—lately of the Melbourne motor-
accessories firm of Edwards and McGinness,
which is now entirely in uniform —thinks
he has discovered a new method of trench
warfare. It is the employment of what is
really a giant gravel-pump, only the pump is
capable of hurling rocks instead of small
stuff. It is designed to embarrass the enemy
at close quarters by filling up his trench
and compelling him to come out and be filled
with shrapnel. McGinness has lately pre-
vailed on the Defence Department (or the
Department has prevailed on McGinness)
to try the thing to its wild and whirling
limits, and he is now on special leave from
the Engineers’ camp, working at high pres-
sure to get his own particular devil ready for
action at the Front.
After all, perhaps the most remarkable
feature about Chief Justice Way (S.A.)
was his capacity for sheer hard work.
When at the Bar, in partnership with
Josiah Symon, he had an enormous practice
and he made heavy loss in income by going
on the Bench. When there he took up all
kinds of social activities, in marked contrast
to most other S.A. Judges, who are seldom
seen anywhere in public. He was to the end
of his life Chancellor of the University, and
it was no ornamental office, for he presided
at all meetings, attended many committees,
and did much outside work for the benefit
of the institution. For years he was also
President of the Public Library and Art
Gallery, but when he was over 70 the
Government of the day neglected to re-
appoint him, as a broad hint that his heavy
work in court was getting in arrear.
Bertie Johnston, who resigned from the
Westralian Labor party and Leg. Assembly
owing to his disapproval of Premier Scad-
dan’s action over the Nevanas contract, suc-
cessfully wooed his old electorate. This
surprised few who knew the district and
Bertie. Bertie is the roads-and-bridges
super-man of the Western Parliament. No
constituent who wants a ribbon matched or
a chicken hatched appeals to Bertie in vain ;
he will ransack Perth for any required
article. The ex-Laborite conducts an enor-
mous correspondence with his mostly-cocky
electors, and eminent statisticians have cal-
culated that his session’s output of corres-
pondence placed flat would stretch from
Perth to Boogumbustup. By strict atten-
tion to business he has obtained a strangle-
hold on the affections of the free and unen-
lightened. On the vote of Bertie, thus
elected, the fate of Scaddan hangs. Whether
this Government or that shall be in power', or
this policy or its exact opposite enforced,
depends on whether Bertie or somebody else
can match a piece of ribbon best. And this
is as far as we have got with the science of
government!


Bunking. Public Companies, &c.
A Practical and Useful
New Year Gift for Your Children
A SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNT
in the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
The State Savings Institution.
Deposit any amount from Is. upwards in
their own names or your name as Trustee
for them.
Deposits of Is. per week, with interest at
35% as allowed by this Bank on every com-
plete Pound, will amount to: —
£2 12 4 in 1 year.
£5 6 5 in 2 years.
£8 2 2 in 3 years.
Head Office,
11 Moore Street,
Sydney.
J. H. DAVIES,
Secretary
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AI TJIORISKD CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, IC.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hoad OlTioe: Rrisbane.
Sydney Otlicc: 253 George Street.
Melbourne OHice: 41 Queen Street.
London Oilicet 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
Australian gank of Qommerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1009 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th .Time, 1915) .. £1.195.831
RESERVE FUND £65.000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Thread needle Street. E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Siif.ldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Arthur S. Barton,
Esq.; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R.
Lysagjit, Esq. ; George F. Todman, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under tlie Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to dune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 180,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 190.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All nctv business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Buniting, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
das. Milne, Esq.
General Manager—TV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Qo.
of Sydney, limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ~ 2,000,000 0 0
£5,780,000 0 0
Directors:
George d. Coil kn. Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Knox, Esq.
T. A. Hires, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: TV. L. Docker, Esq., and d. d. Brexan, Esq.
General Manager: H. H. Massie.
Heml Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Offiee: 18 Birchi n Lan e.
Directors: F. H. Hangar. Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Lsq. Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |]eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNVARD
STREETS.
£529,95S
750,000
992,295
500,000
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. uuv , wu
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.057 170
GRANTS DRAFTS SXm'a^ToSS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS i :eret
, „ bxe<i periods, a:
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial (flutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
for
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments aud
Annuities without Mutual Liability; aljj
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLIN'S STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £0.000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M G.. M.L.C., Chairman
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Shipping &c.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D
ORMONDE .. Geared Turbine
ORAMA . .Triple-Screw. .
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw..
OSTERLEY..
OTRANTO .. „ „ ..
OTWAY .. „ ..
ORSOYA .. „ „ ..
ORONTES .. „
OMR AH .. '
I itted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
® us . i Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
a K e £ ular sailings from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(UNDER THE BRITISH FLAG)
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA,
and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
''Steamers sail from Wellington:—
MAITAI,
Feb. 3.
MOANA,
'.arch 2.
‘Connecting Steamers leave Sydney:—
Jan. 27. Feb. 24.
ST.W 24 HOURS AT PAPEETE,
THE PEARL OF THE PACIFIC.”
Return tickets available by various routes.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD..
209 Georsre Street. Svdtiev.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting): —•
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhippin<r for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 22.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
■ Leaves Melbourne Jan. 26.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 29.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Feb. 2.
Leaves Sydney Feb. 5.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S. A. and ft’.A. wrts)
SOUTH.
ANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 29.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports. ___
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—c ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
SAMOA-HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
JAN, 26, FEB. 16, MAR. 8, MAR. 20.
Apply:—OCE ANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
»0« E
rABAUL
Jfiyi4
SO AW
%•
'•r
BRISBANE
■
/JSYDNE'i
V//////A
EIBOURNE
,4
. ' NORFOLK
. . |»
•- ' LORD
HOWE
S3Qrt %
Holiday^
bruises
JAVA.S/NGAPORE
& Pacific Isles.
Burns Philp&C9L t p
Send for Pamphlet*
Paid-up
Reserve
Reserve
Capital
Fund -
Liability -
Established 1817.
42%:
- *
Directors:
£3,500 000
£2,600.000
£3,500,000
£9,600.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., Chairman.
Robert Lionel FaitMull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbeiy, .(. .Ai.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. BlacK, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard F.dgttliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson E<q
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedie St EC
314 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. (Foreign Bills nego
tinted and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
-T. RI SSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Health> anti Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
lnnd i « l irii. e - r still in the process of initial development. Queens-
prospecUve heftier < and D to'the^onest 6 workmr. inTeSt ° r ’ the SCie " tiSt ’ tL
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU. Brisbane.
Branch Office: 279 George Street, Sydney, >’.S.W.
TROEDSON, Director.
A. MESTOX, Local Director.
V*
♦
sank ot Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
■for all
General Banking; Business
CITIES and TOWNS of* AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world. *
Banking and Kxchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth
Lmted Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits’
Advances made against approved securities. v ueposits
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at over
1 -
Minimum
Deposit
2550
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at ,
per annum <
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Saving* Bank Facilities
James KELI-. D*pn*r 6owmn<
Jki te. 1915
DENIS X MILLER. G U Ter.„, r
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
Capital Subscribed .. .. .. £ 250,000
Capital Paid-up.. .. .. ..£lOO.OOO
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits.. £15,365
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and, BRISBANE.
The Company acts as Executor, joint Executor, Trus-
tee, Administrator or Attorney under Power for absen-
tees, and is the only Trustee Companv empowered bv
Act of Parliament to operate in more* than one State.
SA DNEA OFFICE: 43 Young Street.
Directors.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR, M.L.C
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. I JAMES KIDD. Esq.
H. AY. BELL, Esq. j R. M. PITT. Esq.
Full information as to terms, etc., obtainable on
application to JOHN MAIR, Manager.
COLORED POST-CARDS. bv Ilarrv J.
Weston— ‘ WEEKLY WORRIES.” ' Set
of six. posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co.. 214 George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
larT^to^— lPaD ‘ V S ’ niaSmficent Steamers trade regu
I\\ EED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE Itifi i ivr>vi.
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY \xn
RI\ERS; also to BYRON IHY^Vnrr'c
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA COFF S
Combination Tickets are imapH » n ,
tie N. S. WALES and QUEENS LA " iUi
to include first- or second-£^ N £ BUISBanp
thence, to Tweed Heads— steamer 1 u BKJ SBANE,
rail to Byron Bay. Richmond or CUren^n^* I*’ 1 *’
there connecting with one of the ” liner s,
date liners for SYDNEY, or ricf-re-ia P 0> * Up to '
ROUND TICKETS —First-class ran .nA ,
steamer. £6 S~ 6 : ceco-H.Tuf-/ 31 -, on
on steamer. £4 2; 6d '* 1 r "‘“ steerage
For Guide and all particulars apple-
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE io and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Feb. 12
and March 11.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
'I IXNAMINCK A, Jan. 22
I MORIALTA, Jan. 29
f RUPARA, Feb. 5.
) PARIXGA, Feb. 12.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN I{ M
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST
AND BEST-EQUIPPED VESSELS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN
CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
I Leave
Auckland.
Jan. 25
Feb. 22
Mar. 21
April 18
<Twin-Screw. *Triple-Screw. Fitted with Cabins
de luxe, suites, bedstead rooms, laundry, nursery,
wireless, etc.
Passengers stopping off at Suva can obtain every
comfort and convenience at the new and palatial
Grand Pacific Hotel. Coupons at specially-reduced
rates are available to passengers.
For full particulars and pamphlets applv
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
"Riverina,"
“Westralia,
“Wimmera,
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
- - - And All Ports.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between
»Australia and United Kingdom via Suez
Canal, Cape of Good Hope, Torres Straits.
I- ast Modern Passenger Steamers,
Twin Screw—l2.soo tons.
SIPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large, airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
1 r.LLGLAPHI. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
Fare to London or Liverpool, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, Etc.,
apply to
Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane; Turnbull,
Brisbane; Mellwraith, McEacharn
*"°' Lty., Ltd., Melbourne and Newcastle;
Elder, Smith & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide; H. Jones
and Co., Ltd., Hobart
A.U.S.N.Co. Ltd.
I Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
! T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ W VREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WVANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
-“ e of beautitul scenery should travel by
e a.i s.V Line, as this‘Company's steamers possess
a P*t° date arrangements for convenience and com-
ort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
• * 0 , c , a > First ami Second Saloon Tickets are
"A e l ! t £f n f* a ! > k ' vi[ h all Interstate Companies, also
. F |n >on S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
n . , ars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS. PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, li BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
T au ' illustration appearing in The
;, i i.KTiN takes your fancy write to the
* auager, who will quote you price for the
original.
-H George Street, Sydney.


The happiest holiday is the
holiday spent with a KodaK
’
With the Autographic Kodak you can make
a picture and a note of every pleasing event
When you leave the monotony of every-day work and
seek diversion and rest in the bush, on the mountains,
bv the seaside or on the harbor —you need a Kodak.
J J
With Kodak snapshots you can vividly recall every
happening that pleased you.
You can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour —and prices range from 30/- to
£l5/2/-
The No. 3 Folding Pocket Autographic Kodak, for pictures x inches. Price,
£4/7/6.
The No. 3A Folding Pocket Autographic Kodak, takes postcard pictures —s£. x 3]
inches. Price, £5/10/-
s'/je No. 2 Folding' Autographic Brownie
is the latest addition to the Brownie family—the little cousins of the Kodaks. Has all the
Brownie efficiency, simplicity and compactness, with the new and additional advantage of
being Autographic. Takes pictures x inches, and, with meniscus achromatic lens,
price 27/6.
Get a copy of very interesting, fully illustrated booklet: “Holiday Time is Kodak Time.”
Secure the January “All-Australasian” number of The Austiialasian Photo-Keview.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba;
Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., Wellington,
N.Z.; 3 Lome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin. N.Z.
Information for the Housewife.
CLARK’S
BOILERS,
CAST-IRON
SAUCEPANS,
KETTLES, Etc.,
will boil QUICKER or as QUICK as the lightest Enamelled Ware, and will last
a lifetime instead of months.
They have lids that will not rust. Handles that will not slip in the hand.
Please note the
Hygienic Shape
and the Patent,
Itivetless Handle
of the Cover, also
the Fluted Handle.
€
SECTION.
CLARK’S
are the Original
Patentees of Porce-
lain Enamel.
CLARK’S hollow-ware IS THE BEST
Australasian Agent: A. J. CHAMBERLIN, Melbourne.
If you want the best
English Eau-de-Cologne
get Atkinson’s “No. 24.”
MADE IN ENGLAND FOR OVER 100 YEARS.
J. 6? E. ATKINSON, 24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
POST FREE
5*
&
PRICE & CO. LTD.
... Watchmakers and Jewellers ...
Military Watches
from
21 1-
We hold the Largest Stock
o-f Luminous and Plain
Dials in N.S.W. Only the
BEST MAKES STOCKED.
90 King St,, Sydney
ant! South Grafton
ft—
We have in our Showrooms
Engineering and Wood-working Machinery by
the Foremost British and American Manufacturers
includin';
LITHES, MOULDING AND SHAPING MACHINES, PLANERS, MILLERS,
POWER HAMMERS, DRILLING MACHINES, FORGES, MORTISING
MACHINES, BAND SAWS, SAW BENCHES, etc.
Prices and full particulars on application.
We make Bolts and Nuts of every description in our extensive West
Melbourne Works, and will be pleased to quote you Bolts in any quantity.
We make COACH, ENGINE, SERVICE and PUMP TIE RODS,
RIVETS, etc., and are CONTRACTORS TO THE VARIOUS STATE RAIL-
WAYS, GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS AND ALL LEADING MINING
AND ENGINEERING COMPANIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
We have a comprehensive range of the latest and most reliable Hand and
Power Tools and Accessories for the following:—■
ENGINEERS, MINES, MOTORISTS, FOUNDERS, BOILERMAKERS,
BLACKSMITHS, COACH BUILDERS, WHEELWRIGHTS, SAWMILLERS,
CABINET-MAKERS, FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS, CARPENTERS,
PLUMBERS, TINSMITHS; in fact, workers in Metal or Wood of every descrip-
tion. Write for Catalogue.
MSPWerso
Proprietary Limited
Established 1860.
Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.; and Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W,


m
11
v
Your copp of
Finney’s
Summer
Sale Book
is readp waiting for
pour name and address
Send it to-day!
Finner. Isles
Sc. Co. Limitec
The Big Block. Brisbane
have ’him*** \^
rthv Ausrrs: : .<n *-?* - J 'l { - A
COMMONWEALTH
OF AUSTRALIA.
£10.000,000 WAR Toaxi
l SE YOUR MONEY
to sar? the Bus f *h- e_-b . .
M" 3 -
victory cam bo
Australia.
IHt YOl WANT TO EN D THE WAR?
** *° ~~J It -W m, oj
DO YOU WANT TO HELP YOLK COUNTRY'*
Bj subscribing to the W*r Loan v.«-
Tho man. be be rich or poor, fe KtTle to be A : rv ~* u ' l >H r^
——« r.a, tafce iKw »• <w ~», t .
APPLICATIONS mmj be r_tde at al Ranks. <sta f . » secar»t % > of his n .
M " 1 a* is ekses on Sis; c ***»*s ox Post tkhoos
C:— Bark of AsstraH*.
January. 1916.
THE BEST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL STATIONERY
IN THE WORLD
OAT 0$ :Lv :r*-> Xo office is
«•* tt» Wet Rrits-Wande stationery
***** TYreWMTEI! CARBONN
x Xl* mTIL CAKBOSS and TYPE
RI*Y EK RIIHiYY? vv l TWe XOLOK
x XY RIXT**Mt fats ■» unl Et er E
' skwCi a; oat* s*» that his
v '^ >v>> *s<(* Xcic* :tra«?s.
Y* I. YTTOXEKS.
YwtnUsiM Vceac :-C. F. BICKFORD,
S l*»! tw Street SvJoey.
IN BANANA LAND
“Alton”: The tallest Billjim, is it: Well,
Banana land has had to provide khaki for
one Kuickel. who soars nn to 6ft. llin. lie
was raised ar Alton Downs, a fanning dis-
trict near Rockhampton.
“Rangan' : Ar last Bananaland has an
l nder-Secret ary for Agriculture who is not
afraid to strike our. lie has actually made
a suggestion. This year's report is mostly
the same lifeless collection of mouldy sub-
rvports, but covering one discovery. * Some
fine system of irrigation or some modern
method of production? Xot at all: these
do not come within the scope of Banana-
land's Agricultural report. The great dis-
covery is that the agricultural societies are
wrongly named: they should l>e called asso-
ciations. How did the Department find that
out?
"Rangan" : To date Ryan has experimented
with State hotels. State printery. State
butcheries. State sawmills, and talks of
Stare bakeries and State collieries; but the
institution that is crying for State manage-
ment —the hospital—is left to beg and bor-
row and get deeper into debt. Only mem-
■>ers of hospital committees know the battle
necessary to keep going. Here is an every-
day example. The visiting committee of
the Springsure Hospital reports that the
windows of the operating-room are broken
and the rain wets everything: that the light-
ing is had. the burners of the hurricane hint*
being worn out: that the matron needs
assistance: that an extra cook and laundress
are needed: that an X-ray plant ought to be
secured. To which the general committee
replies that food is dear, expenses high, and
subscriptions below the average. Appar-
ently the votes of the sick and invalided are
not worth bothering about.
Cream of tartar has been scarce since
tr.e war began, so a substitute has been de-
vised. Ordinary stuff contains 95 per cent.
acid tartrates; a Brisbane swindler's
cream of tartar contained 44 per cent of
phosphoric acid. 30 per cent, of starch. 26
per cent, of other assorted matters, and no
trace of acid tartrates. It looks like a
record for adulteration—if that's the word.
estern Bananaland is never free from
:be ding o pest. When it isn't bad it is
worse, and in dry spells like the present
loss of lanrs is enormous. Sheep-owners
have now come strongly forward to ask that
deg-proof netting attached to all existing
rarbit-proof f-noes. The idea is past the
experimental stage, and the only men clear
trouble are those who have made huge
‘tv! cages of their runs.
‘‘P.W.L.": Bananaland's coastal fruit-
growers have had their worst! season on
record. It wasn’t the drought or the fruit
fly—though they were bad enough—it was
the flying fox. This pest broke all records,
especially in the mango districts, where not
one farmer was left with a decent crop. The
stinking creature, half bird, half beast, rages
like the legions of the Kaiser and destroys
about one hundred times more fruit than it
eats. Poisoned fruit, shooting and colored
scare-lanterns prove ridiculously inadequate,
as anyone who has seen a present-day fox
camp knows. The curses hang in thick
masses from the branches to the ground,
lifting a stench like the Last Judgment to
the patient skies. Government Fruit Expert
Benson takes a leaf out of the German's
book and advocates poisonous gas. Some
years ago sulphur fumes were proposed. The
experiment has not been tried yet, but some
destroying vapor that will account for
millions at a time seems the only thing pos-
sible. Of course it might fail. The inverted
stinkpots might welcome poisonous gas as
a breath of fresh air in their obscene
haunts.
NO DROVING JOB.
P.C. MALONY: “Jacky. your bow is not in a pt stale to roide home. Ye'll hare to droive
him.”
JACKY (not long in from “The Edge”): “Yes gib 'em mob a cheep I drire 'em alright. But
no fcer drive boss. He too arch lie down longa rond.”
"Machete' sends hack word from Egypt:
1 r " settled. 1 'if ;_ss ■*£ i eel--Eel in how-
He wis very large and fat led he on
h : s collar the badge of the Bugle iu Efertact
which has earned the Highland lriintry their
u Faying rarae of ‘The Pig ini Whistles." His
hillLird-table kgs were clad in those weird ricicg
trousers bdwed of Indian errors—Ctariev Claplic
» the krees and skin-tight to the irkies. j u . 5
be.ew the safes in orthodox paatioß were the
bowrugs. cot the axraos sort, bat of brown
l***her, each with two neatly-pel;shed boekles. The
>acne cay I saw a stiJ-elfcer in dnmois-kiiiiet
niirg beets of palest yefl-. w. bet that was a mere
cash-tt compared wia> the catocei in borru^.
I tan : The Lsi»>r Government. led bv a
lawyer, is promising cheap law. by establisa-
;ag a btate Department where the noxious
dm*g may be dispensed. A movement of :hat
s:tt might redmy? fees, put it would add to
:h* «os of the Courts. What is wanted is
not more law but less law—which means,
first, an Arbitration Court for those wh
as sire to settle turtr disputes without the aid
of lawyers. Frequently the Judges
settlements in contentious cases, and it is
S6bdvm that the parties ■will no: compromise.
Euc even when they do they do not escape
'"’‘r The Ey h n ver®ment would
a m:re popular move it it estab-
atsUoa a Department where cheap conwv-
ancmg might be done. Th so wh . hsv.
d" 7 : Up wtth deed transfers, mortgage
ats aarges. etix/ wfli know what that -traits.
Following X. S. Wales Bananaland i< f<>
have a system of qualifying examinations
for its police magistrates. Most of the pre-
sent P.M.’s are promoted clerks, and may or
may not have a knowledge of the law. In
future all appointees will be required to
know at least something about the Justices,
Small Debts. Licensing and Mining -vct3.
Perhaps the first requirement of a P.M. i 3
ordinary horse-sense, but apparently that
will have to be left to chance. Of course
the good old Jay Pay is to be left alone.
His single qualification—that he be able to
sign his name —still holds good.
R. McC. Anderson has been up in Queens-
land making a report on the railways for the
Government. He puts all the sting in the
tail of the document —he couldn't find a
Depreciation account, and reckons the un-
shown debit at £622,500. In other words, the
books have been faked to that extent, inas-
much as an expenditure properly chargeable
against revenue has not been charged at all,
and the machine which has had two-thirds
of its day stands in the books for the mis-
guidance of Cohen at its original cost In
\ k ' it isn't verv surprising
r *‘ at Anderson found exes. i n proportion to
revenue were exceptionally small.
The Law sat quiet the other day i n
Townsville, while “expert advice" sambolled
round the witness box. and showed what
this "demarcation" that wages boards. etc.,
are now so much interested in is coming toe
A question had arisen regarding the definition
ot various grades of blacksmith, via., endn-
eermg. c achbuild r's and the ordinarv plain
or common smith. The Court's expert ad-
T '^ r sca . ted if a man made a bolt
tor a railway waggon he would be an ea-
ffiwpers blacksmith, bnt if the same bolt
wwe pat into a sanitary cart he would w
aJ engineering distinction, lie aI A , exnlaimwl
«v US * Wire drive* inSTSS
wav w agg’. ii automatically made the n-Tn
whoinna&ctaied » gSjSS
. : V- »
who made hall » docen bolts Jt
parEl ° se that he was
-t fh VT 7 UK ' ** to wha? , n ? r !
r ~\" > rs eventually put that
Law Prescribed
*■'“*“* with refreshments. '
A Prayer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come IVath with soft, grey wings and
cover up
lhe Ancient Shame of frenzy and disease!
Bring hack the smoothness to the wrinkled
brow.
Best to the tortured brain, as you know
how.
lhus only shall he find the lethe enp.
Aud, thirsting, drain it to the poppied lees!
QUKKXSLAXD.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSI[?]
Beisbane, January 15, i9 l( .
My Df.AB ThaRGOMINDAII,—
Everyon" was glad to see that Lieut m
Bond had been given the D.S.O. for '
X ;, w , Gui “ ea - He Y as SOT 'i fl 'vhero „
the Dardanelles with the Naval BrfdS
Train when the latest news of him wa s ,
calated. dS (
If any Australian soldier knows anyth;
• l *» t Tim Murphy, of B Company 1
Battalion, who has been missing since Mav
Mr C. F. Murphy, of Brisbane, would*
glad to hear from him. Mr. Murphy had h
sons at Gallipoli, and circumstances treat
him cruelly in the case of each n '
six months before definite news that r
was missing reached him. Meanwhile t
blundering Defence Department informed
harassed father that the other son had be
killed. mx weeks ago this boy reached Sv
ney by hospital ship, and that was the fiV
intimation to the family of his having vii
from the grave. 6
TT ?<*** was hel< * 5n the Exhibit!,
Ilall last Monday to consider* the best r,
of celebrating April 25, the dav when V
Australians landed at Anzac. Major-Gene!'
McCay, who has been inspecting the Qu ePn ‘
land -amps, stirred up enthusiasm with
soldierly speech, and, although no definif
arrangements were made, an impressive tr
bute to the men who were in that histori
assault is assured. But it shouldn't be le
to Bananaland alone; all Australia ought
take its hat off on April 25.
Chaplain Robertson (a brother of Main
Beresford Robertson, of B Company, of th
'\nri?V- A \ b ° was v kiU " d action o,
April 25, and who will be remembered an,
loved so long a 3 a man of B Company is left
has returned invalided A brave and modes
man. he will say nothing of his own work
but when telling of the exertions of other,
particnlarly Father Bergin, he glows.
The first woman to be appointed a Gov
ernment land agent in the State is Miss It
Tranent is haring Lr
difficulty in filling the places of men wh,
have enlisted, and the experiment of ntilis
ing brainy women like Miss Murphy, wh,
i*^ ll 10 7? aTS ™ the Lands, was do
cided upon with a sigh of relief.
Mr. George Furness, of Maryborough
celebrated his 100th birthdav last week i
hundred years take a_lor of accounting' for
u certain mat «o have been spent in
Queensland. Mr. Furness's signature ap
p*ars on the petition for the separation of
Bananaland from >. S. Wales. In 1841
when he arrived in Sydney, he toiled as a
?art ?? er , f, ' r . a week and rations.
I-a.-y. he tri-u whaling first for sperms, and
then for jobs c, n the Darling Downs, when
Ipswich was a collection of huts and War
wi--K was a patch of natural history.
borne days ago the military authorities,
alter searching a boarding-house in Wharf-
streer. collected the proprietor, his son and
nve other unnaturalised Germans and in-
ternwl them. It was a friendly thing to do
ana done in good time, because, a soldier hav-
P , \ Tloas *y struck some special attention
in the noose, a party of his mates had called
mund as a deputation from the Piece-meal
boaety.
* - ,H. BrociTey. who ran unsuccessfully
for tne Labor seat at the Lockyer at last
h ? been appointed general man-
ager ■ bawmiHs. He brings the ex-
perience of 30 years to the business.
Tours affectionately,
AUSTBALIA JANE.
J. Lalor, a member of the Chamber of
F ssils, did n t attend a single sitting dur-
ing the past session and only once recorded
. s : ;me ine session before. Nor could C.
M Cihie find any spare time to tnrn up last
after being seldom present in the
preceding year. Toe li-use has now
‘*r :n dted jo S 1 members, and the attendance
c: these few was lastsessi n very indifferent.
1 reeneaily s; caking a i en old nominees
■ - the president carried on the job of
' toying tl work of the 72 members of
the elective Assembly.
Freda Bage. a master of science who used
to lecture on biology at the Melbourne Uni.,
s latterly been toiling for the Queensland
Government. On behalf of the National
t ounoil of Women. tlti> - i-'-ntific miss testi-
tnxi the other day in Melbourne before
Ft go.jier-General J an Stanley. Q.M.G., as
'•' the need for cookery lessons in Victorian
military camps. The OoundTs idea is to
-tve a cooks' >r; <. like they have in
' - : - . S hool
orv'v-ded teaching s.eiiities for soldiers, of
310 presently passed an evam., each
receiving a eertiheate of his ability to roast
®f As a result of the Stanley inter-
the Women's Council in Melbourne is
me vs. riv.g a working {is aof procedure, and
'■lt* it ready General John is to be
given a chance of putting his O.K. thereon.


Just the Pure,
Fresh, Fragrant Juice
of Fully-ripened
Lemons —
Sweetened just right—
that’s
BROOKES
“LEMOS”
SQUASH
There is no beverage more
welcome or more beneficial, in
enervating climates, than
BROOKE’S SQUASH
Nature’s Own Refresher!
'vssN^\v\
(0
AH,
V.
WA
'
•jj
- = JSf-
. .Uiiw
1
r *£-:=2
i-fe
=1 x
S. sAI
//A
</A
r/K maw
$
y
sS
<0
SUPERIOR TO ANY OTHg
fern riavooo of ’’■'F -
i** !*«•«,. It!fen Jilt II pm* ll***M
f* .>..,»!* •»! •».!> low ,r% ’
*•*•%•! IH- »••• I'MHt W ,MM
C R Eo or J i' < Ca\>vs
/ ////teZ=*i.
MB


WSL
A. N. A.
£3/1 O'- to £lO
Guaranteed 1 5 Years
We do not employ canvassers
to waste your time. Come direct
to us and save money by secur-
ing a better machine at a lower
price.
A.N.A. Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston ; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
vt\
* 280 Calibre
High Velocity *•
lubhots in a post-card
at 500 Yards
Tbe Ross .280 Rifle using the Ross Spott-
ing ammunition will group 10 shots in a re<3-
angle the size of a post-card at 500 yards.
Try to equal this at 200 yards
with any other sporting rifle
and ammunition.
But its wonderful accuracy
is only one of the reasons why
you should carry a Ross .280
on your hunting trip.—Another
is the anchoring properties of
the Ross .280 Sporting Am-
munition with copper tube ex-
panding bullet. This projectile
delivers a smashing blow as it
expands in the body of your
quarry and fells the largest game
instead of allowing it to escape
and linger wounded in the bush
as happens so often with other
sporting bullets.
Ross Rifles
The Ross .280 Rifles and
Ammunition are used all
over the world wherever big game is hunted.
Illustrated Catalogue sent free on request .
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada.
T ulle—luxurious
but economical
tj Few ladies will deny that Tulle is at
once the most luxurious, fascinating and becom-
ing Millinery trimming for Summer wear. Yet
it is a fact that if you are careful to choose
“Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle your Millinery will
cost you less than ever. “Dynamo” Tulle is
rainproof—yes, guaranteed rainproof. It is
also sunproof. It is colourfast. It is fadeless.
When wet, you simply shake it gently to and
fro in the air till it is dry. It immediately
regains the crisp, firm appearance it had when
new. It loses none of its sheen or colour. Its
original charm is completely restored.
Q “Dynamo ’ Tulle is wonderfully durable. It
stands the wear and tear of everyday use much
longer than ordinary Tulle. It is
most economical, because it
avoids the frequent renewals so
unpleasantly necessary when
ordinary Tulle is used. There-
fore, see that you get the genuine.
Tulle
RAINPROOF
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d., 10|d., 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yard upwards.
?AU the best Milliners use “Dynamo” Rainproof
ulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard. Ask for
it by name. But if you wish to be sure that you are sup-
plied with the genuine, you must insist on seeing the
name and trade mark on the card on which the Tulle is
wound.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
THE, GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
49
& UHEIMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & Co.. 229 Strand, London.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in bis little way. He likes, and must
have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most effi-
cacious equivalent to Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the battle.
Then what a boon to the mother to
use a food which requires no tiresome
cooking or preparation.
MellinsFood
is made in a flash—needs no cooking
MESSRS. GOLLIN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd., SYDNEY.
Send for sample
of Mellin’s Food
and Handbook
for Mothers
“The Care of
Infants in Aus-
tralia ” FREE
nz.
horrocjk.se s
IS
&
i f! k
LONG CLOTHS S.SHEETINGS
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If vou have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON'S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price lie, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
BE
CRITICAL
as critical as you
like over the services
you require from
Calvert’s Carbolic
Tooth Powder.
For the efficient cleansing
and antiseptic properties this
dentifrice possesses, make it
easy to maintain that standard
of cleanliness, which satisfies
people who want their teeth
to last well and to look well.
G
I
a
If
~ n
y Q
Q
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co. .Manchester. Eng.
Ju-y
a
reas
P
T:
*
/
XV
m
P
Bflß/MET GLASS
. MOS&
AUSTRfILW/N f* |/qOE
o Will not'Kink.Crack orßursl"
Bfl WT GLASS KIBBB? C?L T ?
All States and New Zealand.
In that great shopping streak known as
Chapel-street, Prahran, an “emporium"
wears a queer placard in its window: “Two-
penny tickets sold here singly.” It is a per-
manent testimonial to the sex’s habit of
spending all but the last possible tuppence
when out on a drapery-drunk. As tuppenny
tram tickets may elsewhere only be
bought in clutches of six, the spend-
thrift would be in danger of walk-
ing but for her accomplice, the shop-
keeper. As it is, the shopping woman may
reduce herself to tuppence and still be able
to buy a tram ride that costs threepence in
cash.
The A.J.A. has decided to take its case to
the Federal Arbitration Court. As things
were, what with the war and the high cost
of living for employers, the Journalists were
ready to go ahead on the old agreement; but
the employers gave notice that they were not
prepared to do likewise; Wherefore, as pro-
vided by the A.J.A. constitution, a plebiscite
of members was taken and there was a
swamping majority in favor of applying to
the Court for redress. After the Long Vaca-
tion is over and the Court returns from the
seaside there will be lashins of work await-
ing it, so it is not expected that anything
more will be heard of the A.J.A. case for six
months or so. Meantime, the Ass. will be
card-indexing its grievances and keeping
hopeful.
Surgeon-General David Bruce, who gained
the Dutch Science Academy’s Leeuwinhock
medal last year (it is awarded every decade)
for investigations into sleeping sickness and
Malta fever, is an Australian born in Mel-
bourne in ’55. He got his doctor’s ticket
at Edinburgh and served with the R.A.M.C.
in Malta and Egypt from 1884 to 1889.
After that he had divers scientific jobs, in-
cluding the direction of a Royal Society’s
Commission to Uganda. Between whiles he
has been awarded medals and prizes whole-
sale, and has published a pile of learned re-
marks about Malta fever, sleeping sickness,
and other obscure troubles.
Two great-grandsons of that Captain Wil-
liam Crosby who founded the Australian
shipping firm of William Crosby and Co. in
the early sailing days have been through the
recruiting depot at Melbourne. Frank
Crosby, a wheat-farmer, was turned down
for one of the usual reasons and went back
to do his bit in the bush. Eric was accepted
and left as a driver with Grim wade’s artil-
lery brigade. The father of these lads is
Charles Crosby, a retired member of the
Crosby firm. He spends much of his time
in assisting the Y.M.C.A. to be a success at
home and in the field, having been its Vic-
torian president for the past five years.
The worried little woman who looked as
if she had seen a lot of trouble and been
disappointed by a dark man from over the
water, whirled round from the sandy beach
repast and beckoned angrily to the small
boy hovering guiltily near the deep water
under the rocks. “Commere!” she called.
"You commere at once, Fleetweek!” No
trouble to date that infant!
“Hamer” : Re the Oxford Dictionary hav-
ing settled the origin of the word “suffra-
gette” (B. 6/1/T6), tracing it to Charles
Hands, a London Daily Mail man, I fancy
the word is more than 10 years old and was
coined in Australia. When womanhood
suffrage was an unsettle/! question in N. S.
Wales, P. J. Gandon formed an “Anti”
League, and as its secretary carried the
hostile campaign into all the debating socie-
ties and managed to get their proceedings
reported at some length. I don’t know
whether Gandon used or invented “suffra-
gette,” but the fact that it was used is
definitely fixed by memory of the bad pun
of some debater who declared about woman
that Gandon would never “suffer-’er to get”
the vote if he could help it. That recollec-
tion is at least 17 years old, and as there
would be no reason for either the recollec-
tion or the pun if “suffragette” had been
an unknown term, the Dictionary must be
wrong.
“Bill o’ Costs,” from the table:—
I see that Justice Real threatened to disallow two
days’ fees to counsel for wasting time. That warning
is a legal chestnut. Some of these days he will go
too far and then Armageddon or something will
transpire. But, after all, Real’s threat is to fine
the successful party to the suit (or the “estate,” as
the case may be) those two days’ fees, for you can
bet a pound to a pumpkin that someone will have
to pay.
They manage these things differently in commer-
cial circles. If Percy Singlets and Miss Chiffon
arrive 15 minutes late at the glove department, or
are a bit lethargic in persuading the dubious pur-
chaser, they are liable to be pounced on by a
floor rajah and find a slice of their not
too robust emolument; and they haven’t Buck-
ley’s chance, either, of recovering the forefeited
shillings from any other source. It is odd that,
although Judges have always had the power to
smite Costs on the pocket for time-wasting, they
seldom exercise it. I can recall only two who had
sufficient courage. One of them, a German at that,
with the true Teutonic instinct for economy, had a
short Cromwellian way. When the learned brethren
had got to the stage of inquiring: “How about
costs, y’ronor?” He would say: “£5O for costs.”
“But, y'ronor—quite inadequate—assure you ! Better
have them taxed in the usual way.” The shocked
protest rarely shifted him. Sometimes in trumpery
cases he put it more curtly: “No costs,” and after
the usual expostulations would simply repeat, “No
costs.”
Seriously, why should it not be the duty of every
Judge to take into account the time which should
properly have been occupied over a case, the time
wasted by the respective parties, and assess costs on
a balance of accounts accordingly? Some of these
days when I decorate a judicial seat I am going to
deliver the oracle in this fashion: “Judgment for
the plaintiff, damages £lOOO, or defendant to
marry the girL The trial occupied 12 days; six
should have been sufficient. The plaintiff wasted
half a day in hysterics, her counsel another 34 in
needless speeches and unfounded objections, the
defendant’s counsel was responsible for another un-
necessary two days, and both counsels spent most of a
day in personal wrangles. Costs awarded for seven
days accordingly.” If I feel unusually honest I may
add: “I wasted half a day myself in irrelevant
loquacity, but I don’t see how I can salt anyone for
that.”


NOTICE TO IMPORTERS.
Manufacturers of hosiery,
WOOLLEN and COTTON PIECE
GOODS, ALUMINIUM, ENAMEL-WARE,
aVeT !LS of all descriptions, ZINC and
POPPER PLATES, PAINTS, WHITE
RED LEADS, ACIDS. DRUGS,
CHEMICALS, MACHINERY, SAFES,
VcYLES, ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES,
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, GLASS-
WARE, Table, Window, Fancy and Bangles,
RUBBER GOODS, etc.
Nearly all the World’s Commodities, now
replacing German and Austrian Goods, are
now made in JAPAN. They are chronicled
for ready reference in the
OSAKA and KOBE
Manufacturers’ Directory
and Buyers’ Guide.
Osaka and Kobe are the “Manchester” and
the “Liverpool” of Japan respectively, and
this new book (nearly 300 pages) is of ines-
timable value to every up-to-date business
house.
Price 12s. 6d. post free, cash with order.
Now to be had from
The Far Eastern Advertising Agency,
No. 388, KOBE, JAPAN.
Payments may be made by International
Money Order or Bank Draft.
FORD OWNERS
A Pfanstieli Master Vibrator will make your motor
run steadily and smoothly; will make starting
much easier; will save you the trouble ot trying to
keep four vibrators working together.
-i\<31d13313 lH3|j Cl „ ,i
1*
JS
ii
ii
Uliiiiiiiimiiiimmiiiiiii
Pfanstiehi
Master
Vibrator
Increases the speed,
power and flexibility
of the motor; gives
your motor perfect
timing and conse-
quently increased
power. Does away
with missing and the
resulting loss of power.
Reduces carbonising.
The Pfanstiehi is the
"standard Master Vibra-
tor. Small, neat, at-
tractive. Measures only
4 x 4 x inches.
Heavy black fibre body with lacquered spun-brass
cover! Price, 40/-. Shipped by prepaid Parcel Post,
registered, to any point in Australia for 2/- addi-
tional.
Made by PFANSTIEHL COMPANY, North Chicago, 111.
US A. Orders promptly filled by LYON PETCHELER
and CILLES, Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
I.
The Delicate Magneto
is the very life of your cycle or car. It requires the
skill of the expert to adjust and repair. Send yours to
Moody & Co.,
343 Kent Street, Sydney,
who have specialised in electrical work for years, and
who undertake to repair quickly and cheaply, and
guarantee to make it work equal to new again or
make no charge.
*
ITUvit id
HVi lk
Stimulating—
Nourishing-
Palatable—
Easily Made —
Easily Stored —
Always an Ideal
Food-Drink.
IK
ra
SPAHpftAVfI
HI
MfctTg
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian liard =
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring ana
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
loud street, perth, w.a.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68j' I 'PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
__Branches in all parts of the world.
to
&
ft
///
>-V'
fwpmmmzsmi
;s - .TtQ,
U
vl/rf
hi *•'■.
w *%«
*
3,
2^>
NV2
r*
*SE
1 »—»-, *>E
Or
•A
3KL<
'mterr/*
• n
i
“r
i::".. :ih
"THE THREE GRAHOLAS”
Ilis Master’s Voice” “Gramophones” find their superb materialisation in the
Gramola models, of which there, are three types—No. 1 being illustrated,
hor beauty of structure, exquisite tone, power and compass, these instruments
remain unchallenged as the perfect talking machines of to-day.
Gramola No. I.—Circassian Walnut £65
Gramola No. 2.—Figured Mahogany or Oak £55
Gramola No. 3.—Mahogany £47
British Manufacture.
Accredited dealers everywhere. Instrument catalogue,
record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
“GRAMOPHONE.”
Reg. Trade Mark.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Registered Trade Mark
THE JOKER’S SQUIRT BOUQUET.
A neat bunch of violets. Ask your friends to
smell the violets, and to their surprise they receive
a stream of water in the face. Post free, 1/-
JOKES, TRICKS,
Puzzles, Novelties,
Write for our New Catalog.
A Novelty in itself. Sent Free.
WATCH MATCH-
BOX.
NllB.—W a t c h
Matchbox, nickel-plated,
engraved in imitation of
semi-hunter watch,
diameter two inches.
Post free, 1/3.
The Two Articles together Post Free for 2/-
H. L. Hutchinson Ltd.— New York Novelty C 0.—708-710 George St., Haymarket, Sydney
Watermans(jdeai)K)untainPen
Held in highest esteem.
Waterman’s Ideal has millions of
friends all over the civilised world, and
many are the tributes that have been
paid to it. At the front it is held in
the highest esteem for its simplicity,
durability, and absolute reliability.
As a token of regard for military or civilian
friends no better gift can be chosen. .Send
the “ Safety” type.
4 TYPES—Regular, Safety, Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ctjrnxr, London, England.
AUSTRALIA-350. George St., Sydney.
Pill
I',,;:*
.vfflWt
WiM[
u
n
■
i
it
H
“TEACH THEM TO SHOOT,”
with Remington-UMC .22 Calibre Cartridges
These little cartridges—. 22 short, long or long rifle —have an
unrivalled reputation for accurate shooting and are used by the
leading small bore experts the world over..
All three sizes may be used in a .22 Remington Repeater without
mechanical adjustment. Ask your dealer to show you a Remington
Repeater and finsist always on the Red Ball Brand of cartridges.
The genuine are stamped wdth a “U” on the cartridge head.
" < ' r We shall he pleased to send, postpaid to any address, interesting in for-
tnation for shooters . When writing , send us the name of your dealer •
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Woolworth Building, New York City
D. I). BRYANT, Australian Representative,
P.O. Box (iSG, 3lelbourne.
LookforTKis "U
oxv
Tfeut*
Contractors to the British and Colonial Governments.
ABBEY SHOES.
Men who like character and indi-
viduality in their footwear find
their wants well expressed in
ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate a special High-grade
Patent Derby Shoe. A smart
made-to-order style. Also in Tan
Willow Calf.
Price - 30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
9
B
Ideal Hunting Knife
and Safety Axe
Two articles indispensable to the
comfort and ofttimes the safety of outers.
Examples of the practical worth of
MARBLE’S “Sixty Sporting: Specialties.”
Marble’s Safety Axe
—the handiest tool a sportsman
ever carried. The nickle plated,
spring - hinged guard, lined
with soft lead, protects the blade
and folds down into the handle. Blade
of best tempered steel. Slips easily
into your side pocket where it is out
of the way but always at hand.
Marble’s Ideal Hunting Knife
is just the all-round knife you need. Es-
pecially designed for all hunting uses.
Made from the finest cutlery steel, care-
fully ground and tempered. Every knife
guaranteed. See these goods at your dealer.
We will gladly Bend you postpaid cornplete
illustrated catalog of MARBLE’S “Sixty Sport -
ing Specialties” on request.
Marble Arms & Mf g. Co.
611T)eItaAv.,Gladstone,Mich.,U.S. A.
Cable Address “Marble” Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand
Representative
HARRY MOLDEN. Box 1349,
SYDNEY
Guarded
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
NORCROSS” Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The, sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney.
v/j o*'\ ¥
!«:
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers
Bushnell. Illinois, U.S.A.


Eau-de-Cologne.
The perfume lingers—the fragrance
delights!
There never was —nor is there
now—any other Eau-de-Cologne
quite so refreshing as Yardley’s.
It is EXQUISITE!
The name is the guarantee of the
quality.
8 New Bond Street, London W.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE. SVDXE Y.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
PETER DAWSON, the World-famous Baritone.
TIVOLI 'FOLLIES
OF 1915-1916—SECOND EDITION.
EVERYTHING NEW AND DOWN TO DATE.
Plan Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
■yiVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
VAUDEVILLE 1)E LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
MATINEES AS ABOVE.
Plans at Glen’s and Tivoli.
|-| E R MAJESTY’S, S Y I) X E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
SO LONG, LET IY.
With a brilliant cast.
Plans Paling’s. Day Sales Callose's.
QRI T Eld O N T II EA T RE. SYDNEY.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd., present HALE HAMIL-
TON (the original “Wallingford” of New York and
London) in the first of a series of New Farces,
TWIN BEDS.
Plans Paling's. Day Sales White Rose.
THEA T R E ROYAL BYDN E Y.
■ Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
Direction THE BERT BAILEY CO.
Managing Director: JULIUS GRANT.
Limited Season of Two Weeks, commencing
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 22.
EVERY EVENING AT EIGHT.
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY,
Interpreted by the BERT BAILEY Dramatic Co.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan at Paling’s:
Reserves, 4 ’-.
T
H E
WHITE CITY.
Rushcutter’s Bay, Sydney.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 7.30 TO 11.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICK, General Manager.
ymmwmvm*
The garden thea t r e,
BAYSWATER ROAD.
DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY.
Direction E. BRANSCOMBE PTY. LTD.
AN ENTIRELY NEW
1) AN D I K S CO.
EVERY EVENING (Wet or Fine) AT 5.15.
Prices: 2/- h I'-; Reserved, 2/6.
DANDIES' SUMMER LOCATIONS:
RED CO
VIOLET CO
ORANGE CO
PINK CO
SCARLET CO
PERTH, W.A.
ST. KILDA. VICTORIA.
MANLY, N.S.W.
ADELAIDE. S.A.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
NOTICE TO READERS.
IF any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
original.
T/uT&xzueivn.
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
GREATER J. I). WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present their Gorgeous
Annual Panto. Extravaganza,
MOTH Hll GOOSE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Theatre royal,, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present the Great War
Plav,
UNDER EIRE.
Prices: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction BEAUMONT SMITH & LESLIE HOSKINS.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 22.
BEAUMONT SMITH & LESLIE HOSKINS
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE LADY OF LYONS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 22.
First appearance of GEORGE MARLOW’S
SHAKESPEARIAN CO. in
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
Amusements.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FULLER’S THEATRES & VAUDEVILLE LTD.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
Afternoon 2.30. Evening at 8.
Paul Stanhope’s Burlesque Co., Fritzee De Guy, Les
Bates, The Original Grafters’ Quartette, Ruby Ken-
nedy, Frank Norton, The Popular Butv Korus,
The Great Lutes and Co., The Jeunets, Eileen Fleurv,
Morris and Meeker, McConnell and Austin.
Prices: 2/6, 2/- & 6d. Matinde’s: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
|_| O Y T’S PICTURES. MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
TWO BIG SHOWS.
HOYT’S OWN: Bourke Street, next Theatre Royal.
OLYMPIA: Prince’s Bridge.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
DAIMLER
sotor Carriages
Ccweroal Yehict.es -
Agricootral Tractors
t«£ DAIMLER COMPANY «s
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. ltd
The “Safety First” Movement
For Safety.
For Reliability.
For Regularity.
For Durability.
For Smooth Running.
For Fast Running.
For Heavy Lifting.
For Economical Upkeep.
Instal Up-to-date Hydraulic Lifts
Hydraulic Elevators, Lifts, Hoists, etc., at prices to suit all requirements.
Complete Hydraulic Plants for Lifting, Pressing, Dumping, etc.
Lift Maintenance, Inspection and Repairs a Specialty
Quotations supplied for all classes of Lift Maintenance and Repairs, Renewal of Lift-
ing Ropes and other parts. Best Workmanship at Lowest Rates.
Large Stocks High-pressure Pipes. Yales and Tubing always on hand.
Make Sure Your Orders Reach the Right Company.
No connection with any other Lift Insurance, Inspection or Maintenance Company.
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
A. MAYXE HERON,
Manager.
NOTE.—Hydraulic Power will Never Fail You.
Self-Sharpening Scissors Set
THE EASIEST CUTTING SCISSORS EVER MADE
8-Inch Constant-Tension Bent-Trimmer Scissors. Fancy-Work Scissors
Special Button-Hole Scissors.
Onh
*53
ra* 8
3 G
the
Set
at*
aa«a
Onlv
mm
3/6
the
Set.
&
Delivered anywhere for only 3/6 for the Complete Set.
A Competition Bargain. Three Scissors for the Price of One.
MONEY BACK IP YOD ARE NOT DELIGHTED
'PHF- Self-Sharpening 8-inch Scissors are the easiest catting that have aver been made. Shaoed like tailor’s cotter's
shears, with extra tang on finder bow, tnev do the hea\ iest cutting easily. Biades are hollow ground of the finest
•hearsteei. and kept always ssharp by the constant tension lever. One blade sharpens the other. Bal, nearing points
reduce friction. Will outlast Six Ordinary Sciß.ors. The Fancy-Work Scissors are specially made for embroiderv ami
lace work, and the Button-Hole Scissors can be adjusted to accurately cut button-holes of any sis u . All tnree Scissors are
heavily nickel-plated and rust-proof. You should order at once; this offer will not appear again. The 8 Inch
Scissors mav be had separate.y for 2t. 9d., posted free anr*here. Obtainable only from
THE UNION COMPANY. 299 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE
20% DISCOUNT off
STERLING SILVER
Our experiment of a couple of years
ago of taking the wholesale catalogues
of the great English Manufacturers of
Electro-Silver and Solid Silver Goods
and deducting- 20 per cent., or 4/- in the
£, from their prices, was of a revolu-
tionary character and might have landed
us in heavv loss, but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so we
are continuing the discount. It only
gives us a bare commission on many
lines, but commissions count, if numerous
enough.
Heavy Solid Silver Sugar
Basin, 4 inches diameter,
28/6
Less 20% discount 5/6
Heavy Solid Silver Cream
Jus. 3 4 inches hfgh.
t 26/3
Less 20vc discount 5/3
21/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
25 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Business Notices.
Ray’s Hair Dye.
—'
wm
y
. »■
When Grey Hair begins
to show, rejuvenate
your ap p e arance
with
RAY’S
DYE.
Harmless and In-
stantaneous.
33 different shades.
Post pattern of
hair with order.
4/10,7/11,10/9,
POSTED.
MADAME LEIGH,
2*> & 23 Block Arcade. Collins Street. Melbourne.
SEEDS FROM ENGLAND 8
Buy your seeds
from Ryders,
the famous
Eng'ish Seed
Specialists. All
seeds <flower®
vegetable) in
penny packets.
CATALOGUE
FREE.
Address —
RYDER & SON
Seed Ltd.
Merchants,
T ALBAKS,
England
RYE
LxyJuna,
Cures ECZEMA.
No matter how this terrible disease manifests
itself, either dry, scaly or mattery, it quickly
vanishes under the wonderful influence of EXZERMA.
Exzerma is a liquid compound, is non-poisonous,
and cures Eczema with amazing rapiditi and
thoroughness. .
The worst and most obstinate cases are cured in
two weeks.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS
or by
S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney.
(fIPILLdRINE
CROWS MOUSTACHES
!
<?
Other preparations
may fail, but this
tried and tested
Hair-grower lives up
to its reputation.
CA PILLARING
quickly converts a
weedy moustache into
a luxuriant growth.
Why not send for a
Jar to-day?
PRICE 10/6. Post Free.
Craig & Aitken
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
THE BRITISH MADE
YELLOW METAL NIB
GOLDEN
WATTLE
Smooth and durable, as it does not
corrode or break. Just the kind
of nib to improve characterless,
illegible handwriting. The best
of writers like it and use it, and
with ladies it is a great favourite.
SIXPENCE & ONE SHILLING PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
MANUFACTURED BY
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
STE Et, Gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
By ordering
CEREBOS
SALT
you make sure
of getting the
best and purest
that is to be had.


Burned and Were Itchy. Could Tear
Face to Pieces. Used Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. Face Clear.
Boundary St.,'East, Little Coogee, Aust.
“X suffere.d with blackheads and pimples,
pimples being my main
trouble. My face would
burn then in a few days it
would all break out in pim-
ples which used to be so
itchy. Then the pimples
would come to a white head.
I used to feel as if I could
tear my face to pieces.
“I suffered like this for
such a long time until I saw an advertise-
ment for Cuticura and at once sent for Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment and in about three
weeks my face was clear and I was cured."
(Signed) Miss Vera Newman, Apr. 29, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,
Sold throughout the world.
Benger’s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
ill
♦
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partiaMy
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder,
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
An interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Food ‘assists Nature'
for Invalids and Convalescents, post f ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER,Engr.
Branch Offices :
NEW YORK (U.S A.) 92, William St. SYDNEY (N.S.W.) n 7, Pitt St.
Canadum Agents —National Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd., 34, St.
1 75 A Gabriel St, MONTREAL,and branches throughout Canada.
Treat your
hair kindly
You desire fine, beautiful hair.
Therefore you must treat it
kindly—nourish it, preserve it,
care for it by regularly using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
“For Your Hair.”
This preparation has been used for over
120 years—it has proved its value time
and time again. Do not try experi-
mental remedies on your hair—get a
bottle of Bowland’s Macassar Oil at
your chemist’s. Also sold in a Golden
co 1 our for Fair or Grey Hair. Rowland
& Son, 67, Hatton-garden, London, E.C.
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Lsttor-paper
this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you .
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
*ign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 106 x
°*< P«> s t free 4/6; or NSC£4OO DOUBLE Capacity
■or 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x 6in., post free 3/6; double capacity, 4/6.
sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and most successful Mutual Life Otfice in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors -Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L C. ; Hon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C. ; Hon. F. R. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £33,500,000. Annual Income, £4,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1914 ~ £1,034,346 Total Bonuses distributed .. £19,808,000 ;
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus,
and full information without delay.
Try
this!
\
, .f 'ft the outer watts of the nostrils a* shown above. Then inhale vigorously through the
". s Afterwards exhale, also through the nostrils. Do both, of course, whhe hold ng the
ostrils wide open. The result will be nothing less than a surprising revelation of how the nasal
a r passages can be enabled to conuey an increased supply of oxygen to the respiratory organs.
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
If you have a dropping of phlegm into the throat,
If your nose is stopped up,
If crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to colds,
If you suffer from frontal - headaches,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat and expectorate often,
If a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If your sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
If you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition until
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, but it never stops there.
The simple cold becomes a protracted one, while the discharge from the
nose grows more piofuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends tp the throat and bronchial tubes, causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggravating cough. The matter
that is continually dropping back into the throat finds its way into the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and loss of
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the body become infected. What was supposed to be a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated, and chronic, and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Semple Bottle of “ KAT-AR-AH ” INHALANT
FREE to SUFFERERS.
“ICat ar-ah” Treatment for Catarrh i 8 based on scientific principles,
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entirely new and logical
basis. I know it is right by personal experience—the best Catarrh
Remedy in existence, and I am ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
acknowledge its w r orth. No matter how many remedies you may have
tried do not consider your case hopeless until you have tried “Kat-ar-ah ”
Treatment.
In order that you may prove the value of this Treatment to your own
satisfaction I will supply you with a trial bottle of “Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant
FREE OF CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and germ-
destroying medicated air to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasal
passages of the accumulated mucous. I will also send you a copy of my
new and interesting booklet —“Catarrh —its Cause, Symptoms and
Treatment.” Be sure to mrntion this paper when writing, give your
full name and address, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage.
Send to-day. The trial bottle will be sent you by return mail. HERBERT
HERDER, 22 Daking House, Sydney,
St
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing/
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Stenog” : “Enzedder” (B. 28/12/’l5)
has been speaking about lack of labor-saving
appliances on wharves. \v ell, I struck this
at Port Wakefield (S.A.) the other day. They
were unloading bagged super, from a ketch.
One man was in the hold (about four feet
deep).. llis job was to fish out a bag, place
a loop around it and hook on to the
derrick chain. There was another man on
deck to signal for a heave and guide the bag
to the wharf; also a horse to pull up and
lower the bag to the wharf, a man to
drive the horse, two men to truck the bag
to a shed about 10 yards away, and some
more man to receive and stack the parcels.
I asked the captain of the crew if he
couldn't do the work with, a smaller multi-
tude but was assured that he could not. Six
men and one horse to move one bag of
super, about 10 yards every five minutes!
Anyone beat it?
Statistics prove to a surprised Adelaide
that 1915, which “broke the drought” and
produced a bumper harvest, was really an
inch and a half below the average, and was
itself a real drought in its first and last
quarters. In those six months Adelaide had
under 2in. It had far more than that for
the same periods in unspeakable 1914, whose
beggarly total was 11.39 in. Where 1915
scored was in a gloriously wet winter. From
April to September, the important months
for wheat-growing, the average was well
exceeded, and 1914 was simply wiped out.
Apparently a city with a good reservoir
supply and a country depending mainly on
wheat can do without any rain in the six
summer months if the other half only be-
haves decently.
* * * *
“D.F.” : No wonder the post-office loses a
million or so a year and has to raise its
rates if what my friend Q.D. tells me is
true. He says that some years ago lie was
earning a crust as a telegraphist in the
U.S.A. and noticed and worked with a sys-
tem far superior to the Wheatstone used
in the Australian telegraph offices. Later
he' came back and got a job as a telegraphist
in Melbourne, and then he brought this sys-
tem to the notice of the powers that be. It
happened that not long before the Postal
Department had sent a highly-paid official
to America to look out for things of this
kind, and he had gone through the very
office in the States in which Q.D. worked,
but saw no wrinkles worth picking up.
However, he admitted, when the idea was
put to him, that it seemed a good one and
worth trying. A recommendation was ac-
cordingly sent on —and that is the last the
man who brought back the notion has heard
of it. Anyway, the old system is still
going strong. # #
“Croson”: Some, at least, of the Vic-
torian orchardists consider they don’t need
organising. Recently the Central Fruit-
growers’ Association was invited to consider
a scheme by which distributing agencies were
to be established in Melbourne suburbs, each
being supplied largely, if not wholly, by the
producing district nearest to it. The idea
was to largely increase the consumption of
fruit by selling to the consumer direct in
single cases, at fixed prices for properly
graded fruit. As a matter of cold fact the
Australian fruit-grower, while he has
nursed and coaxed his export market, has
utterly neglected his home market. Fruit,
at any rate during the summer, should be
on every Australian meal table, and a few
years ago the hawkers were encouraging the
healthy habit; but the Bumbles chivvied
them into the Backblocks, so to speak, and
now the Jonathan apples for which the
grower would gladly accept ss. per case of
401 b. cannot be bought in Melbourne subur-
ban shops at less than 4d. per lb. A well-
organised scheme would have halved the
price and trebled or quadrupled the con-
sumption ; but the Vic. Central Ass. turned
it down because it “would unduly interfere
with the retailer.” This regard for the
flea on the part of the dog is truly touching.
“Dumper”: Assuming that “Rimu” (B.
30/12/T5) leased his cottage, and the roof
blew off, and he then refused to pay rent, he
would have lost in a legal argument with his
landlord, unless the lease clearly made the
latter responsible. Even if his cottage had
been burnt to the ground “Rimu” would still
have been liable for rent, unless expressly
protected in his lease. The law holds that
the ground is leased, and can be lived on
whatever happens. The leading case is
Taylor v. Caldwell, which dates back to
18(52. Here an agreement to let a music-
hall for four days was held to be terminated
on account of the hall being burned down.
The existence of the music-hall was essen-
tial to the performance of the contract; but
the law would not hold “Rimu’s” cottage to
be essential, as he could live in a dugout.
GERMAN TRADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Australians have tender hearts when the fight
is over, and it is usual to find them handing round
cig.Wettes, sweets and other treasured luxuries. This
is the British temper. Yet, in face of this universal
sentiment, limited sections are trying to make the
community commit itself to a policy of unrelenting
refusal to trade with our present enemies for years
after the conclusion of the war! What are the
selfish inspirations ?—Chemist and Druggist of Aus-
tralasia.
We cannot well expect to stop their trade,
We do not even wish that it should end ;
Things will come neatly branded “German-made”
When we have ceased the trenches to defend.
The war will end in settled calm and peace,
And smiles will twist our mouths in various-wise;
Trades battle with the latest shot shall cease,
And hate give place to gentler exercise.
Mind you, we do not want the German’s wares,
We do not want him or his ships, or ways ;
But, in defiance of our toils and cares,
There must be German trade, because it pays.
Oh, yes. The things will come. In dull despair
We may sit down and wait or watch or pray,
Or hasten to get drunk or tear our hair,
But Germany will never keep away.
For, viewing this great matter in the wise,
Large light of all that ever went before,
There seems no hope that anyone will rise
With sense enough to simply shut the door.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


THe BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
B32—REMINGTON HAMMERLESS REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, Model 12, 22-ealibre, solid
breech, side ejector, straight grip, 24in. round barrel, handles 15
short, 12 long or 11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights; weight 4slb. Delivered, 52/6.
!b " )- ]
llfasiiiiiisa
THE MAXIM SILENCER.
for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/7/6
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2/6
Postage on one Silencer—N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging or screwing Silencer on 22-cal. barrel. . 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on all other barrels 12/6 extra
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS’ OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot: 119 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
We Repair
All Kinds
of Q U N S
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and I
aii Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
hAYMARKET
•SYONLY
-nmnj
e
B49—MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10-shot,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/10/-
819-—“ THE SAVAGE” REPEATING
HAMMERLESS RIFLE, 1914
MODEL, 22-cal. rim fire, 24in.
octagon barrel, slide action, de-
mountable, pistol grip, handles short, long or
cartridges; magazine holds 20 short, 17 long or_ 15
cartridges; length over all 40in., taken apart 271ir
• about silb. Delivered
long rifle
long rifle
i.; weight,
£3/8/-
—a^ss
B29—REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel,
weight l7/6
B3o —With ladder rear sights 21/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State.
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE, British made. Sample Box of 5—2/6 (post free).
JVC
B2—STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel, 20in. chambered for long
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight 41b., 17/6
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
Exclusive Agents Wanted
to Sell Gasoline Engines
MARINE, STATIONARY AND
PORTABLE OUTBOARD MOTORS.
Write at once to
The Caille Perfection Motor Co.,
506 CAILLE STREET,
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
“WORLD’S LARGEST BUILDERS OF
TWO-CYCLE MOTORS.”
We manufacture every practical type of Gasoline
Motor. Prices Right. Quality First.
2-H.P. PORTABLE.
Motor-
cycling
at its
best
IT will pay you to remember that
it is not necessary to have a heavy
high powered machine. The B.S.A.
4i h.p. Motor Bicycle develops suffi-
cient power to take you anywhere solo
or sidecar. It is most economical to
run, simple to control, and by its won-
derful reliability consistently maintains
the well known B.S.A. reputation.
RIDE A
Motorbicycle
Fitted with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT THREE-SPEED GEAR.
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH."
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle
List Free
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co.
Ltd.).
Australian Bmldiogja,
MELBOURNE.
Agents: TMILLEDGE BROS. LTD., George Street, Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN’S UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free
Wheel on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop
Tyres. As ridden by F RANCIS BIRTEES. £l2 10s. Write for Price Eist,
post free.
ANTHONY NORDERN & SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Praviders,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
THE GIES REVERSE GEAR.
The GIES is built in three sizes of the enclosed and open type, so that it
is the best-fitted reverse gear for the greatest number of power boats. It is
the simplest reversing mechanism made. The few parts it has are all inter-
changeable, as they are jig made to accuracy. High-grade materials and first-
class workmanship, combined with right design, make the GIES the most depend-
able reversing device on the market.
GIES Gears are not an exper'ment, they are the result of
10 years’ experience in building reverse gears exclusively. Over
30,000 satisfied customers are our best recommendations.
DEALERS: We wish to secur responsible dealers wherever
we have no representation. We feel certain that reliable
importers will want to represen the GIES line, once they have
investigated its merits. The DIES offers any dealer a com-
plete line of reverse gears to fit any make of engine. Rightly
priced and widely advertised, th GIES will be a quick-selling,
money-making line to handle. Write for our special dealers’
proposition to-day. Cable Address :
GIES GEAR CO., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
GI ESGEAR,
DETROIT.
Edison Blue Amberol
Records for January
This month’s list of records comprises two concert and twenty-
four regular records —and each one is worth hearing.
Among those that will be extremely popular are ‘"ltalian Fan-
tasia Accordion (P. J. Frosini) ; “Search for a Four-leaved
Shamrock” (Talbot O’Farrell) ; “Make Me King of Your
Heart” (Emory B. Randolph) ; “Lead.. Kindly Light”
(Hughes Macklin) ; “We All Went Home by Rail” (Will
Terry) ; “All Do the Military March” (Stanley Kirkby).
W e advise you. if possible, to hear those you fancy played over
at your nearest Edison dealer’s. But order without delay.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28204 —Mein Lieber Schwan! (My Faithful
Swan). Lohengrin. Tenor, orch. aec.
Jacques Urlus.
28205 \ oci rli Primavera (Spring Voices) —
" altz Song. Soprano., oreh. acc.
Alice Verlet.
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2529 —Tannhauser March.
Edison Concert Band.
2536 —>/y Lady of the Telephone. Baritone,
orch. aec. Joseph A. Phillips & Chorus.
2538 — Operatic Bag.
National Promenade Band.
2539 — Out to Old Aunt Mary’s. Recitation.
Harry E. Humphrey.
2540 — Teenie, Eenie, Weenie. Contralto and
Baritone, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph A. Phillips.
2542—My Melancholy Baby. Tenor, orch. aec.
Walter Van Brunt.
2545 Cecile—Waltz Hesitation. For Danc-
ing. National Promenade Band.
2546 — (a) Ah! ’Tis a Dream. (6) I Dream
of a Garden of Sun-hine. Baritone,
orch. acc. Thomas Chalmers.
2548 —Good-bye. Girls, I’m Through. Bari-
tone, orch. acc.
Owen J. McCormack & Chorus of Girls.
2551 —Let By-Gones be By-Gones. Contralto
and Baritone, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Vernon Archibald.
2553 —Little Bit of Heaven. Baritone, orch.
a^C- Frank X. Doyle.
2554—My Orchard is Short of a Peach Like
*ou. Comic Song:, orch. acc.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan.
2558 Let Ls Have Peace. Baritone, orch.
acc - Philip H. Wolfram.
2567—Italian Fantasia. Accordion.
P. J. Frosini.
Kakuda One-Step. For Dancing.
Van Eps' Banjo Orchestra.
Millicent—Waltz Hesitation. For Danc-
* n S. Jaudas’ Societ.v Orchestra.
2583— Armorer’s Song—Robin Hood. Basso,
orch. acc. Frederic Martin.
2554 Old Folks at Home. Contralto, orch.
acc. Christine Miller and Chorus.
23355—Lead, Kindly Light. Tenor, orch. acc.
Hughes Macklin.
23356 \\ e All Went Home hv Rail. Comic
song. orch. acc. ' Will Terry.
2005 i I Don t Suppose. Tenor, orch. acc.
Charles Compton.
Search for a Four-Leaved Shamrock.
Tenor, orch. acc. Talbot O’Farrell.
23360—A1l Do the Military March. Comic
song, orch. acc. Stanley Ivirkby.
23366 Make Me King of Your Heart. Tenor,
orch. acc. Emory B. Randolph.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


first in
Everything
First in Purity
First in Efficiency
First in Quality
First in Results
First in Economy
And there are many other reasons why
Laxo-Tonic Pills are first with the
hundreds of thousands in Australasia
who know their value and use them.
They immediately sweeten the stomach,
remove the sour, undigested and fer-
menting food and foul gases; take the
excess bile from the liver and carry off
the constipated waste matter from the
bowels. Then your stomach Trouble
is ended.
A LAXO-TONIC PILL to-night
makes you right by morning .
LaxoTonic Pills
I h 2 h
This Week s TOILET HINTS
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY RECIPES COLLECTED FROM VARIOUS
EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads, oily skin
and enlarged pores.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly cor-
rected by a unique new process. A tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist, is dropped
in a tumbler of hot water which will then of
course “fizz” briskly. When the effervescence
has subsided the face is bathed with the
stymol-charged water and then dried with a
towel. The offending blackheads, of their own
accord, come right off on the towel, the large
oily pores immediately contract and efface
themselves naturally. There is no squeezing,
forcing or any drastic action. The skin is
left uninjured, smooth, soft and cool. A few
such treatments should be taken at intervals
of three or four days thereafter in order to
ensure the permanence of the pleasing result
so quickly obtained.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned, home-made recipe restores youthful
appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist an ounce of concentrate of tamina-
lite and mix it with four ounces of bay rum.
Apply to the hair with a small sponge for a
few nights and the greyness will gradually
disappear. This liquid is not sticky or greasy
and does not injure the hair in any way. It
has been used for generations with most satis-
factory results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of
Superfluous Hair.
“Home Science.”
Women- annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered phemiuol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
The Real Cause of Most
Bad Complexions.
“Health and Beauty.”
It is an accepted fact that no truly beautiful
complexion ever came out of jars and bottles,
and the longer one uses cosmetics the worse
the complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
must breathe. It also must expel, through
the pores, its share of the body’s effete
material. Creams and powders clog the
pores, interfering both with elimination and
breathing. If more women understood this
there would be fewer self-ruined complexions.
If they would use ordinary mercolised wax
instead of cosmetics they would have natural
healthy complexions.
About Hair Tonics.
“Novel Recipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some won-
derful discovery for improving the hair, and
although this paragraph may seem a little
superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe may come
as a welcome change. One thing about it is
that it will grow hair, and also prevent it
falling out. From your chemist get an origi-
nal package of boranium, to this add i-pint of
bay rum, allow it to stand 30 minutes, then
add sufficient water to make half a pint. Rub
briskly into the scalp with the finger-tips and
you will immediately experience that clean
tingling sensation which is a sure sign of
healthy action. [2
A US
‘Australian Made
Combs,
2/« each.
Cutters,
6d.each.
Postage extra. Ask for them at every shed,
or send direct to the Manager,
AUSTRALIAN COMB & CUTTER WORKS,
Corner Larkin & Sparkes Streets, Camper-
down, Sydney; or Head Office: FEDERAL
PASTORAL SHEARINC CO. LTD., Chamber of
Commerce Building's, Ceorge Street, Sydney.
ip i
Csl,
. trrp
E
The Old Mahogany.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f MIME’S elbow grease but darkens the
I rich wood :
Spanish mahogany, some sailing ship,
Black-flagged perhaps and not unused to
blood,
Loaded beyond the ocean’s western lip,
To some grey English coast at length to
bring.
Splendid and rare in wavy figuring.
A jovial carpenter came to the task.
A jest he put into those solid legs
That swell grotesquely, like the skipper’s
flask
Too often calling at the brown-hooped kegs ;
And fancy bears the green mahogany
Through rum and riot on the open sea.
But fair and wide the workman made the
board,
Smooth at the corners for my lady’s friend,
High for the comfort of a roystering lord
Who slid beneath it at the evening’s end ;
For when my lady left them with the priest,
They drank like men climax of the feast!
Clear for wax candles to reflect their light
Like orange lanterns flicking in a grove.
Or wraiths of spent suns in a summer night
Blurred with hot weeping for the dawns
they love —-
Wax candles guttering ’midst the dying
flowers
When Day crept in with her revealing
hours.
No forcing swamp reared this mahogany:
R lacks the softness of Honduras wood.
Some Spanish isle beside a wild blue sea
And mountain country made it firm and
good ;
No warp is in its many feet, but here
The polish dulls and leaves a hostile smear.
So an old tale is writ! By candle-shine
In wigs pert-ribboned and in hose of silk.
Satin knee breeches, ruffles prink and fine.
Because of a small wanton’s throat of milk,
Two gallants fought to bitter finish there
With steady wrist and deadly rapier.
Outside in the walled garden deep and grey
A slight girl watched. O’erhead a phantom
moon
Threw tremulously one faint, pallid ray
To show the muslin gown, the dew-soaked
shoon,
The small unquiet breasts, the slim young
hips,
The hair unpowdered, the unpainted lips.
She heard the clash of rapiers, could not see
And dared not call, and dared not even
weep,
While, warm and red beneath her canopy,
’Broidered with poppies for enchaining sleep,
Dreaming fresh triumphs for the morning
hours,
The wanton slept among her gathered
flowers.
Stirred in the coppice some wee waking
bird;
Dawn picked with ruddy fingers at the roofs.
Was it a closing door the watcher heard?
Was that the sudden thud of horse’s hoofs?
She tiptoed to the lattice. . . .Could she see
What lay along the brave mahogany?
Pale candle-flames blown sideways in the
breeze
That to the casement prattled of the day
And brought the living scent of flowering
trees
And asked, “What is this comedy men play?
M hat dance is this behind a fast closed door
That leaves - red favors trickling to the
floor?”
Bees rose amid the purple heather buds ;
A waggoner came yawning from his cot;
Morn sailed into the world on golden floods ;
But last night’s ruffling gallants 'heeded
not—
One rode, loose reined, towards the twink-
ling sea.
And one sprawled o’er the spoiled mahogany.
What marriage meats has this old table
seen!
The caudle cup has passed across its shine ;
Shy hands enlaced beneath its shield have
been ;
And, when fhe foreign courier stayed to
dine,
Down-cast and modest lids have not con-
fessed
A satin slipper by a jack boot pressed.
Here monkish palms have slipped in monkish
wise
The secret sign, the while king-makers
quaffed
A fruity wine that never paid excise.
And the King’s mistress furled her fan and
_ laughed,
Flinging with languid air her verbal dart
To hide the cold forecasting of her heart!
And here the King himself with gilded heels,
His cloak of velvet and his jewelled sword.
Has read rebellion where the courtier kneels
‘;' K 1 guessed the poison underneath a word,
Ihe while with twitching mouth he makes
pretence
Df a most kingly-kind indifference.
Bound this same table Squire was wont to
bid
His boon companions swill the amber ale,
setting back the merry tankard’s lid,
Vould roar and bluster in some hunting tale,
p . as a sequel with a view hallo
omt, with the tankard, the last brush to
show,
a 'y eai ' there was no hunter in the field
- ike his bay Sal. No fence too stiff for her !
° "Boh too deep. No leadership she’d yield.
-nd ill-luck to the clown who would
demur.
■ attorney with a weazened face
inted some other steed the pride of place.
Ihen Squire leapt roaring to his gouty feet,
lee mg an( ] apoplectic from the cup,
int neither he nor bay Sal could be beat,
oiade a wager. ’Twas Death took it up.
In muddied boots and red coat bramble-
scored
They laid old Squire upon the creaking
board. 3
the widow, sitting all alone,
A nu ei u e ? k thlng m clumsy weeds ;
And here the lawyer with his cringing tone
Juite ready to supply a widow’s needs—
As cunning as a cat that waits a mouse,
A poor dependent of the elder house.
Here came the old man with his lusting wife
Here came the lover, delicate and young
er< kidfe aSSaSsin with his sleeve-tucked
And here the traitor with his honeyed
tongue, J
rr” d h ? re therms to dine before the Rout
Lpon her fluttering eve of “coming out.”
Gallants, and ladies chaste, and ladies light,
Ghosts are ye round the old mahogany !
Vu ln th e garden May is blossoming white
And one brown bird chants in the lichened
tree
A song of moving fans, of wine and sword,
1 orgotten wassail gathering at the board !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Valley of the Shadow
of Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUR little party shouldered its loads
and packs and prepared to leave the
gentleman in khaki, who was loung-
ing on his back in the shelter of a bank, pull-
ing at a fag, prior to running the gauntlet
of bullets through which we had just passed.
“D’yeh know the track along there?” he
asked, indicating - with his head the way he
had just come, and which we were now to
travel.
’ ( Not too well,” our O.C. replied.
“Well, look,” he said, rising to his feet,
and pointing along the shallow creek-bed
tliat formed o. track for men and mules
travelling to the left wing of the firing-line.
‘See that dumper trees. Well, there’s an-
other open space there—an’ y’ want t’ move
pretty slick for about seventy yards !”
We thanked him, and moved on until we
reached the place. Here was a signboard
protruding from the scrub that lined the
bank, with “Dangerous— Sniper” written in
straggling letters with indelible pencil to
warn the too-casual Australian soldier of the
danger hidden in the distant blue hills that
looked so innocent, but commanded a clear
view of the spot.
Beyond the trees beside us the bank sloped
down bare, leaving no protection against
hostile fire. On the far side five dusty,
wearied figures, with rifles slung carelessly
from their shoulders, were just entering the
danger zone. We hurried across as fast as
our burdens would allow. Putt—putt—putt!
Three or four bullets spat up the dust about
our feet. As we passed the five men, just
relieved from the fire trench, someone urged
them to “shake it up and get over”....
“Aw, 'em!” drawled the only one who had
enough energy to talk —and leisurely they
continued their journey across the track.
“Damn fools!” said one of us impatiently;
but, then, we had just finished three weeks’
holiday off the Peninsula, while these five
were just relieved after two months in the
firing-line, and were literally too worn down,
physically and mentally, to accept any im-
pression other than the vision of the rest
before them.
Safely past this, one of the hundreds of
sniper-traps that enliven the lot of the Allies’
soldiers in the Peninsula, we followed the
depression to where it lost all semblance of
a watercourse and wound its way through
shrubs and tussocks, a mere track over level
country. Now the clatter of rifle-fire from
somewhere beyond a small rise on our right
told of the usual desultory engagement that
is an everyday accompaniment to existence.
The hum and whistle of bullets was about
us; and, as we proceeded, above the con-
tinuous boom of artillery could be heard
sharp explosions which every minute seemed
to get nearer. Our track was now leading us
into a slight depression, which gradually
deepened and ended in a gap in the low
fringe of trees and growth, obviously mark-
ing the course of a creek-bed that twisted
and straggled across to the still, blue sea
spread along our left.
We had passed frequent small mounds of
dry, turned earth amongst the grass and wild
flowers. Some were surmounted with a row
of brass caps from exploded shells; others
had crude, wooden crosses made from pieces
of packing-cases or ammunition boxes, with
a name and regimental address inscribed in
pencil, and concluding with the inevitable
R.I.P. These were now becoming more fre-
quent as we neared the gully. Suddenly
there w r as a splitting explosion, as if metal
were being torn to fragments, followed by
the splattering of missiles through the foliage
on our right. And just above, over where the
slope of the hill entered the gully, a large
cloud of smoke, golden-white in the sunlight,
drifted lazily along on the breeze. But under-
neath, hidden in the gully below, there lay—
what? I knew from experience that shrap-
nel rarely searched such places in vain. And
this was the sort of narrow, steep-banked
creek-bed that formed an excellent communi-
cation for troops, stretcher-bearers, army-
service men, passing to and from the trenches
that lined the hills at the head of the gully.
It is a rare trench or sap that isn’t open on at
least one angle to an ingenious enemy’s
gunfire, and we had happened on this gully’s
weak spot. Wherefore I devoutly hoped, as
we came up with a mixed group of soldiers
of various units, unconcernedly seated about,
awaiting a suitable moment to enter the
gully and run the gauntlet, that the unseen
Turkish gunners mistimed their shots so as
to have landed when there was no traffic
passing up or down. Then came two more
shells, one low down and the other so high
that the fringe of its bursting snray of lead
splattered the ground a few yards in front of
us like a shower of giant hailstones.
The group of men we found ourselves
amongst, hot. tired and grimly silent, a few
stolidly smoking, consisted of army-medical
men with a couple of stretchers; five or six
(Continued on next page.)


DON’T NEGLECT YOUR KIDNEYS.
The kidneys and bladder need occasional attention jnst as much as the bowels, especially
after colds, exposure and over-work, or when the kidneys are over-excited bv beer, spirits or tea .
The brain rests while we sleep. So do the muscles. Even the digestive svstem slackens.
But the kidneys never rest. Night as well as day they keep on with their great work of filter-
ing the blood —if they did not you could not live more than a few davs, for the urinous waste
left in the blood would poison the whole system.
That is why the early symptoms of kidney trouble are much the same as those of slow
poisoning you feel as if you could fall off to sleep at any time of the day ; you seem to
have no energy, no ambition ; the ankles and limbs may be dropsical, the joints get rheu-
matic. The water contains a brickdust sediment, there is pain in emptying the bladder nnrl
you may be obliged to seek relief ever}’ few minutes.
\\ hen the kidneys are in a weak and exhausted condition they have no chance to rest
and pick up their strength. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills give them just the help tliev
need. This remedy is solely for the kidneys and bladder ; its ingredients are of the liio-liest
quality and absolute purity, and quickly help the kidneys to throw off the poisonous waste
and surplus water which cause dropsy, inflammation of the kidnevs and bladder oravel
stone, lumbago and rheumatism. ~ 1 >
Every Picture
tells a Story. 0
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
d3'tffl3 S>!V3A OAVX
Mrs. A. G. Cox. 11S talker Street. Redfern, says: "For a long time I suf-
tered from kidney trouble, the worst symptoms being severe pains in my back, bad
headache*, dizzy attacks, disordered secretions, and a dull, tired feeling that I
could not shake off. The pain in my back was often almost unbearable, and
every movement seemed to increase my sufferings. As time went on I got worse
instead of better, nothing I took doing me the least good. I was reallv far from
well, and badly in need of a medicine that would cure me. At last I heard of
loans Backache Kidney Pills, so I got a bottle to try them. They proved to be
tne verj thing I wanted, for after taking three' bottles of these pills I was quite
cured, and I ha\e had no return of kidney trouble since. I am sure sufferers can-
not do better than take Doan's Backache Kidnev Pills; what this remedv has
done for me it will do for others.”
wo - Tears later Mrs. Cox says: "My cure has proved a permanent one for
I have not had a sign of kidney trouble since Doan's Backache Kidney Pills cured
me two years ago.”
three years cured.
been buffering 1 1 40 1 years Vrorn'k' Redfern - Sydney, says: x »<>-
and have had to stay in bed for .. u , disease. I have had dreadful attacks
With my back, and spent hundreds >f n ! ?U J U a tiine - 1 suffered intense agon}
obtained no relief whatever \ l >ou nds on doctors and medicines, but
ache Kidney Pills, and 1 «ot ° lU ] ot lU * ne advised me to take Doan's Back
ing the directions. I did not i, tu * commenced to use them, carefully follow
remedies without success, 1 low >v\>- 1 t aiß ' * n them, having tried so maW
eiopntmn -— 1 i 1 t oan s Backache Kidney Pills proved the
: • *
"huoui success. llnwovA. i , r* '“fin. Having irieu so
exception, they cured me. 1 oan s Backache Kidney Pills proved th<
1 hope many will benefit bv mv ,>■* n .J; B*' 8 *' enou ?h in praise of these wonderful pills
a trial. Should any sufferer ! 1 1 enoe * *pd give Doan's Backache Kidney Pills
lars of my thorough cure " me ’ shall be pleased to give fuller particu
lars of my thorough cure/’" 1 ‘ rn 1 ***& be pleased
Three years later Mr \h» i ---mm
me of backache and kidnev*tro!,hf! l \f ays \ “ Do; tn's Backache Kulnev Pills cures
ever since. Before I took ’this three . v «»rs ago. and I have been wel
f ' I am absolutely free of everv V > a terrible sufferer with my back; bu
ache and pain.'*
Backache
Kidney
At all Chemists ami Stores , 2/9
Per bottle; or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street , Sydney.
“Terriers” in battered helmets, seated on the
boxes of ammunition that they were taking
up to the trenches; and three tall, turbaned
Indian transport men. With these last were
a team of pack-mules that stood sleepily in
file further out in the dusty sunshine, utterly
unaware of the danger that threatened them,
yet only a degree more careless of it than the
khaki-clad humans who waited stolidly in
the scanty shade of the scrub until the time
seemed opportune to venture on their inter-
rupted journey. Through the gap that let
into the gully I could see two more Indians
crouched against the bank, a buttress of
earth between them and the line of fire. A
dead mule lay. still in harness, on the creek-
bed before them : and the leader of the team
beside us was bleeding from a wound in the
haunch.
As a minute and a half had passed with-
out further attack, it was considered time to
make a dash. We were invisible to our un-
seen assailants, whose batteries were well
hidden behind some distant hill: but there
were observation posts on various other hills
and peaks within view, from which the
enemy's gunners were advised of any body of
men passing a spot of which they had the
range. Consequently to disincline the dis-
tant watchers to experiment with a shell or
two, a few of the foremost of the waiting
party broke away and doubled down into the
gully alone. Although the Indians had right
of precedence the other soldiers who were
awaiting their turn intimated that the mules
aad better halt until the Australian sahibs
had gone. Our tall, mild, dusty fellow-
warriors smilingly assented —as is their way.
For my part I approved, mainly because I
have noticed that there is no more unhealthy
travelling companion than a mule team:
firstly, because of the dust it makes;
secondly, because of the incentive to a sport-
ive enemy to lob a few shells in the midst
and scatter the whole show.
I couldn't see who were the first few men
to start out; but they had been gone about
fifty seconds when there came the familiar
wailing whir-r-r-r. Most of us instinctively
dropped our bodies. Over the creek-bed there
appeared as though by magic a puff of pale
gold cloud —then a metallic crash, the hum
and whir of a driving rain of flying metal,
and. .. .was it the cry of a human voice... .
or the whine of a stray fragment of flying
shell-case? A little, emaciated, nervy-look-
iug youth beside me. whose haggard face told
that his term of leave from the Peninsula
was long overdue, removed the cigarette from
his lips with an unsteady hand. “O Christ!
They’ve got ’em!” he said under his breath.
For a while there - was silence: then some-
one querulously wondered how much blanky
longer they were going to keep us. Two
minutes passed without anything happening.
“I think that was their final flutter for a
while,” someone said. “We’d better make
a dash for it now.” We took up our bur-
dens and clambered down the steep bank into
the gully. I remember now that, as we
prepared to dash forward, the thought lay in
my mind : Who were, the men ahead of us
—had they gone? But there was no time
for reflection. The next shell might come
any second. Straining and panting under
the heavy panniers and ration-boxes that
we carried, we travelled at the nearest to a
run that was possible under the circum-
stances.
The gully took a sudden turn to the left,
and in the shelter of the new steep bank
before us we were forced to drop for a
breathing space. The intervals between
each six or seven of these customary “after-
noon shellings" had been frequently noted to
be about ninety seconds. So almost imme-
diately we were up and forward again—
eager to be quit of the danger zone in good
time. But for all our reckoning hardly had
we got into stride when Xo. 1 of the next
series came shrieking over and burst fifteen
yards behind us. There was no doubt about
the urgency of the matter after that. “Full
steam ahead!” called someone —and each
man put every pound into it. “This ’ere’s
tk’ plice f’even toime, choom.” panted a
grinning, red-headed “Terrier” who had
joined with our party. He put on a spurt
as he spoke, and dashed round a sudden turn
in the creek.
“Look out there, choom!”
I heard his voice dimly, in sudden advice,
as he flew on. Dashing round almost on
his heels I stumbled over something in my
path. As quickly as we were moving, every
detail of that scene was impressed on my
mind. Even to the fair-cropped * hair cut
straight above the sun-bronzed neck, as he
lay face downwards —a slim, khaki figure,
with a Red Cross brassard on his left sleeve,
and under his head a pool of fresh blood not
yet dimmed by the dust of the scuffling
traffic.
Five yards further we passed the remains
of a shattered stretcher lying in the dust.
Close by. some drooping shrub hung in a
profusion of clusters half-way down the claj 7
walls of the bank slanting steeply into the
gully. The upper part of him hidden by
their leaves, a figure leaned propped against
the slope, the khaki knickers and puttied
legs only showing below. But for something
unnatural in the pose of a half-lifted heel
one might have wondered at a man choosing
to recline in the shade in such a place of
death.
And somehow, as I hurried by, a vague
twinge of relief went through me for what
that shading foliage conserved to itself.
Maybe I should not have felt thus after
what I had seen in a night advance over
foul, captured territory and a counter-
attack on the part of the enemy. But it was
in this gully, on the day that t first set foot
in Gallipoli, that, under almost identical
circumstances, seven of our little party were
stricken down before my eyes, including
my mate in Broadmeadows and on the
transport coming over—good mate o’ mine
who, while bending over another wounded
friend, was struck about the head and killed
instantaneously. Ever that gully will be a
ghostly memory to me.
Twenty yards onward, around another
bend in the course, there is a very high
bank. In this shelter there was a “depot”
of sorts, crowded with a party of chattering,
ever-smiling little Gurkhas. We dropped
for a spell. Partly dug back into the bank,
and in places built up with sandbags, it
served as a sort of half-way refuge for those
whose duties took them along this, ,
route. In it were stationed a few ambulance
men to render assistance to wounded,
never envied them their job at any time 1
saw them. Usually waiting outside their
scanty 7 shelter, squatting in the dust with
the sun beating on them, they puffed away
at their pipes, with their view bounded by
the clay bank opposite them; their unly
diversion watching for traffic coming round
the bend, greeting friends, or listening to
shrapnel dropping around, and speculating
on how 7 close the next one would fall.
Then there would be a call, and taking their
lives in their hand they would themselves
round the bend to bring in the unfortunate
who lay shrapnel-stricken in the creek-bed.
And an evil-smelling place, as well as an
unlovely one. Even as we rested, on the
fringe of the careless party of brown-
skinned little Gurkhas in their Baden-Powell
hats and short knickers lay the remains of
a tall Sikh that had already too long awaited
chance of burial. But they weren’t con-
scious of that. The only thing these hardy,
pleasant little fellows ever seem to give any
serious attention to is the word “Advance! ’
The A.M.C. men were having a busy time
in their depot. Besides the wounded man
they had recovered from the wreck of the
stretcher tve had just passed, there were
their lively little brown guests waiting till
the whim seized them to continue along the
Way of Death ; and a couple of men from
the hidden gunpit away over the flat were
boiling tea in a niche in the clay wall for
themselves and their hosts.
With heads lowered we made our next
quick dash, past the too-seanty funereal cov-
erings over some who had fallen ; past where
there lay—one of them in a ghastly grotesque
attitude—close against the clay walls of the
gully, the sun-distorted remains of some of
our faithful and untiring Indian Army-Ser-
vice men : men who have done miracles for
us in Gallipoli, with supreme disregard for
dangpr.
With a feeling of intense relief we came
to a sudden narrow sap cut in the wall on
the left bank. Turning sharply, we proceeded
along its sheltered course, leaving thp foul,
dusty, sunbaked Valley of Death behind us.
T. COLLES.
Fear.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUT of the warm darkness of the sum-
mer night it had leaped at him. He
had sat luxuriously in the big Rolls-
Boyce thinking that she ran as smoothly as
though the read were satin—like the amber
gown Mildred had worn; like the skin of
Mildred’s upper arm. He choked back the
half-savage laugh that rose in his throat.
Love? Well, it was hardly that he felt for
her —she always filled him with a madden-
ing desire to break her in two. To-morrow
night! He had shifted slightly and caught
his wife’s gaze fixed on him. He wondered if
she guessed his thoughts. To his sudden
touch the car sprang like an unleashed tigp r
round the curve. There was a sickening
impact, and a shouted oath from the otner
vehicle.
By the time Lindon had slowed down and
jumped out the men from the waggonette
were already gathered round a prostrate
silent figure in the road.
“Curse you,” said one, turning an inflamed
swarthy face to Lindon. “I believe you’ve
killed him !”
There had been the bore of the coroner’s
inquest; and then the charge of man-
slaughter. Manslaughter! Why Lindon had
never hurt a fly in his life! Could they con-
viet a man of manslaughter when there was
no evil intention? Did the Law take into
consideration the intention, or only the fact’
The fact in this case was the limp, huddled
figure they had placed in the back seat while
the car raced for the nearest hospital.
Lindon remembered the barren corridor
they had waited in while the house-surgeon
made his examination—Catherine, °the
swarthy faced man, and he. He and the"
other man had been restless, but Catherine
had been quite unmoved. “Dead from con-
cussion." the young house-surgeon’s keen
grey eyes had flashed round the group
"Gawd! llow'll I tell ’is missus!” the dead
man's friend had passionately demanded.
Catherine had drawn her scarf closer about
her shoulders. "Why will people drive along
country roads with their lamps unlighted?”
she had said wearily.
Lindon saw again Catherine’s shadow on
the white-washed wall as she drew her scarf
closer about her shoulders. And he heard
the angry little dark man: "That’s a damned
lie— they were alight till you knocked ’em
out."
Manslaughter! They could give a man life
for that ! In the weeks before the trial he
found himself drifting into public libraries,
furtively looking up law-books on the sub-
ject. Twenty years ! That would make him.
fifty-five before he was free again. And the
boy—the boy would be a young man. And
he had planned out all the times they were
going to have together—they were going to
be chums—God! if only he could sleep! lie
found himself going over it all again from
the beginning. lie hadn't slept or eaten since
this thin- had come upon him; and he was so
sodden with whisky that the thought of the
stuff had made him sick. One of the law-
books he had read ( those lying lawyers told
a man nothing I—where was he? He’d jj
Fifty-five ! And the boy—a young man with
questioning, measuring eyes. He gripped his
hands tight, tight on something—the railing
of the dock.
He straightened up as he felt the battery
of curious eyes turned on him. The jury
were moving in their places—were they
going out or coming in? Suddenly the
shuffling ceased, one man stood up. "Not
guilty, your Honor!”
Lindon slipped down. down. When they
lifted him up a second later he was fast
asleep.
JOHN EGAN.


We are Confident that
THE WESTINGHOUSE-MORSE SILENT
Rmawsmr':
ifcp
i -
■
m
I JJH
If
$
ffl
a
-
•V
■
IP
toL r!
'*■>-
,
ROCKER-
JOINT
CHAIN
will appeal to you as
an important factor
in the problem of
Costs reduction*
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
8M.310 to—
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Nev Zealand On ice: 93-107jFeatharston St., Wellington.
Concord West, N.S.W.
BOUNDERS No. 20 PLANER g MOULDER.
Unequalled Value. Stridly Moderate Price.
PLANES, 12iih x 4in„
Double Row Bail Bear=
ings to ail Spindles.
'Feed Rollers all Gear
Driven and of Large
Diameter.
Vertical and Horizontal
Adjustment to Side
Heads.
Can be supplied with
Plain or Ballbearing
Counter Shaft.
! wdy
* . V
/
W JU.
Delivery of these Machines can be given from Stock.
Descriptive Leaflet and Price from SOLE AGENTS—
THE AUSTRAL ENGINEERING SUPPLY CO. Limited.
ISO* CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCKVER’S sulphur.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Lockyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ana Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
With each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
«/I|, 2/9 & 4/b.
tfMcrcdf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectuall y
cuts short all
attack* tl
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUQHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
’he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acta like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY. |
A
m,2
334 H. P.
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating. For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
peller—no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
Descriptive Booklet Post Free from
H. A. GODDARD, 404 Queen St.. Brisbane; 82
Pitt St., Sydney; 376 Collins St., Melbourne;
Cliffe St., Fremantle; Remington Chambers
(opp. G.P.0.), Auckland.
[3
1 I
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. w Time tells
all things” says a truthful, adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled, price IO Jd. (36 pills) I/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
Dinnefords
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
ES
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their - friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
use since 1596
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng,
Insist on “ Singleton's' —refuse all substitutes.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
KYNOCH “SWIFT” is
THE Cartridge for the
“man on the land.”
Smokeless—effective—
reliable—it is a really
good, low-priced Cart-
ridge, and is deservedly
popular.
Factory loaded; uni-
form in pattern and
penetration.
BRITISH MADE.
-r: ’ *
m #i| m
.
ssss
y;;-x<£
mm
i
. v* •
*■:'" .
> ..
'■v !
yv
3
o.<
£
KWH?
Note Your Notes with an
ONOTO
Take an Onoto Pen with you wherever you
may be stationed.
It will save you time and trouble and will
make writing under any conditions possible
and easy.
It is the pen that fills itself and' cannot
leak.
Price from all stationers, jewellery, etc.,
12/- and upwards.
British made and
guaranteed by its
makers.
Ask for the Special
Service Model “ O,”
made to fit the Uni-
form pocket.
fcf-raiing - - DUaiM
Safety Fountain IVll
Booklet about the Onoto Pet
free on application to
Thomas de la Rue & Co.
Ltd., 195, Bunhill Row,
London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Managing Agents,
Norman Baker & Longhursi,
50 York Street, Sydney,


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
NGROVTT
LEATHER
LTI
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
dispels
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards arid Piaster
for Wails, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARPIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
JOT
,F
t
m
l
*
n
/
A re-invigorating
Tonic Beverage.
Reliable Machinery
for FARMS STATION REQUIREMENTS
Tangye Lampless Oil Engines.
Tangye Benzine Engines.
Tangye Suction Gas Plants.
Tangye Irrigation Plants anti Pumps.
Tangye Steam Engines and Vertical Boilers.
Clayton & Shuttleworth Portable Steam
and Traction Engines, Thrashers, Steam
Boad Rollers and Waggons.
TANCYE LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
Started Quickly like a Benzine Engine.
- '
•■* 1 '
"CLAYTON” PORTABLE STEAM ENCINE.
With Largs Wheels to give
Ample Clearance.
Munro Chaffeutters and Saw Benches.
Gane Milking- Machines.
Nicholson & Morrow “Union” Harvesters,
Ploughs, Drills, Cultivators, etc.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machines.
dalgetyTco. Lth.
Sole Agents,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, and all Branches.
Pot genuine satisfaction
use only IKe
Woricis standard machine
mi
k
The
J
wi
9£
Ddlgc ty & Co. Ltd. Sol* Agents.
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE:
Originality in Desig'n
distinguishes
Kempsmith Universal Milling Machines
Study their construdion —they Have the strength and rigidity in the rigHt
place to enable them to stand up to the severest strains imposed by
Modern Milling' Methods, are adaptable for worK of wide range, and are
PRODUCERS in every sense o/ the word.
Catalogue No. 17 tells you all about them and their attachments.
Sole Agents Let us send you a copy.
lv: if
m
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
■
PURE WATER.
FOR HOT DAYS
m
I
e
M
Pressure Filters,
Glass Filters,
Fountain Filters,
Filters.
Special Filters for Hotels, Cordial Factories, Breweries, etc.
GET ONE EARLY AND AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT.
From all Stores or diredl from Manufadurers.
N.
LTD
Equitable Building,
SYDNEY.
.
Vidlorian Agents: BALTIC PAASCH CO., Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
«z.ihe,:-a bb q tt: ’
sap
