

■
The Genial Spirit
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
9
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty • AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY
AND LOWEST INTEREST
M-5 W MONT DE PIETE D &
Head Office: 74
Opposite National Amphitheatre,
CASTLEREAQ H
STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N»S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
■ ' • . y'/t , V
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
a-ss-Bamfflwwtimw
iiiiilSlli®
sssr
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel,
WRITE TO-DAY FOR 5C
r
WALL
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY.
GOLD MEDAL
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
BEDS
For In- and- Out-door Sleeping:.
American Wall Bed Co.,
380 Georgre Stretet, near G.P.0., Sydney
m
5.H.8
MUTTONS
1^r auauu uuiiniiniinm
saanH]
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
H A N SEN’S
ĥ
ħ
Far INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals. . ’ -
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
CORD
BUY BRITISH GOODS!
Practical Patriotism does not countenance support of Foreign Industries.
CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
THE SILVER TOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE.
”
£
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
" Not the same
as others
MALTHOID for Roofing.
AMIWUD Wallboard for Interiors.
Lot’s send
booklets
and samples.
&
(LmL
Chains House, Sydney. (O. S. Evans, Australasian Rep.)
ts everywhere.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
BL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
MINING
MACHINERY
J. B. WALLIS & CO.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, „
Roil Shells, Shoes
and Dies, and all
STEEL CASTINGS.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
ħ
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y01.37—N0. 1909.]
[Thursday, September 14, 1916.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOORS FOR ENGINEERS
(Postages
shown in
parentheses.)
Kent’s Mechanical Engineer’s Pocket Book, 1916.
28/- (5r1.).
Spon’s Engineers’ Tables, by J. T. Hurst, 2/- (Id.).
Machinery’s Handbook for Machine Shop, etc. 25/-
(6d.).
Snth 20/ S (8n bal ” N ° toS a " d Sketcl,es » Bth coition.'
Trautwine’s Civil Engineer’s Poeket Rook. 28/- (4d.)
Wannan’s Engine-driver’s Guide. 6/- (3d.).
Van Deventer: Machine Shop Management. 16/- (2d.).
Eunz s Design of Steel Bridges, illus. 30/* (7d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Afraid of Food.
Those who suffer from Indigestion
and Dyspepsia very often become fad-
dists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very
meagre and unsatisfying diet. The
Antiseptic properties of
HUDSON’S
“Eumenthol” Jujubes
prevent abnormal fermentation of the' food,
and correcting Acidity of the Stomach, they
thus allow the natural digestive ferments to
act, and, if taken regularly after meals, they
so improve the Digestion that a strict diet
becomes unnecessary. They arc a most valu-
able corrective for all forms of Indigestion,
and are especially useful and beneficial to all
who suffer from Heartburn, Flatulence and
Dyspepsia. ’ '
i o'.
ON
•m
<AiimauuimwuMumn
'X&S&gSr-
Sold everywhere in tins. Price 1 /6.
[l
The Red page
Fiction
Ihe important question, “What makes a
man enlistV” is delightfully put and con-
vincingly answered by John Palmer, in The
King's Men (Seeker, per Dymock’s Library).
The author of this absorbing and important
piece of war literature takes a group of Eng-
land’s young men, and shows the leaven of
patriotism working in their strongly indi-
vidualised minds, until, one by one, the inner
compulsion of their Englishness prompts them
to enlist. He paints a faithful picture of
the English Attitude toward the intrusion of
that annoying, even aggravating, thing called
War upon the sacrosanct party politics of
ante-helium England. His group of young men
is chiefly composed of deliberate amateurs of
life, busy on the cultivation of their own
souls, and, here and there, one or two with
souls worth the cultivation. Yet to each
the impulse comes, usually in a strange dis-
guise. Of course, all these soul-struggles
might have been prevented if only England
had introduced conscription at once; but
then John Palmer, while not defending the
voluntary system, manages to get some good
out of it. “We haven’t your solemn league
and covenant of all Englishmen enforced by
the State. But every Englishman who mat-
ters is arriving at a covenant with himself.
In most cases he has had to face a strictly
personal and domestic crisis, and for this
reason alone the war must leave upon Eng-
land a deeper mark than upon any other
country in the w0r1d.... A system which dis
graces our leaders will be recognised in day
to come as exactly the school we needed fo
the recovery of our English virtue. Wha :
do our leaders matter? They stand for a
age in which our English citizenship wa
lost. But our political disgrace is bringin
its own painful remedy. There is hardl
a person in the country who by reason o :
the absence of leading in our Government
has not had to ask and to answer for him
self what his citizenship implies.” (No
John Palmer is not writing of Australia.)
It is necessary to add that the stories that
the author tells of his young men—anc
young women—are of absorbing interest, anc
that they are told in a delightful manner.
Whoever H. G. Dwight is, his name i
henceforth one to be looked for in fictio
lists. Stamboul Nights (Hodder and Stough
ton, per Dymock’s Library) is the work of
master of fiction. Doubtless it would b
wiser to wait until H. G. Dwight has con
firmed this assertion with other collection
of stories as remarkable as this; but it save
time to make the assertion now. Perhap
the easiest way to indicate the character oi:
these stories of modern Constantinople is t
quote the author: “They give one such an
idea of the extraordinary wreckage that ha
been left on the shores of that old Greek sea
....There is something more secret anc
ancient about it —more like Homer and th
Bible and The Arabian Nights .” For thes
stories are like Homer and the Bible and The
Arabian Nights. The author, who aeknow
ledges himself unknown, asserts that he lacks
the gift of invention, and that not one o
these stories could really be called his
“Several of them I put on paper almost ex
actly as they were told me. More of them
were pieced together out of odd bits of ex
perience and gossip.” But though they seen
like transcripts from some forgotten Arabia)
Nights, though he has invested them witl
the right atmosphere and scented them witl
the fragrance of romance, the stories are
indubitably his. He has style—the right
style, and his artistic cunning lies in what he
has left out. The things he leaves out
are infinitely more charged with mystery
than the mysteries he permits us to
glimpse. And the things he tells are
so impressively true. He knows the
minds of that polyglot population of Asia
Minor, that ironic tongue, as he says, thal:
Asia sticks out at Europe, and from his long
residence as an American in Constantinople
he has gleaned many a strange tale of mys-
tery. He had the flair for meeting those
“favored people to whom things happen. I
have never made up my mind just how they
differ from the rest of u 5.,.. All I know is
that there is a wireless telegraphy going On
about me, of which I haven’t the code. Per-
haps that is why I have such an inordinate
curiosity about people’s stories.” 11. G.
Dwight is wilfully deceiving us. His mind
vibrates to that wireless telegraphy: he is
one of the few writers who have the. code.
These stories are modern. They have to
do with American missionaries who dig
foundations for their churches and find
enormous bronze doors beneath the rubble
of centuries of superimposed civilisations;
with Turkish sailors who somehow navigate
a steamer that eventually to their surprise
arrives somewhere; with houses whose walls
are lined with looking-glasses (and with what
you see in those looking-glasses) ; with the
amorous adventure of the milk-brother of the
Sultan; with the gay American girl who
married a wowser missionary, and the face
she recognised when she looked down into the
newly-opened sarcophagus and made out the
figure of the young prince immersed (for
how many centuries!) in a clear pale-amber
liquid ; with the superlative rascalities of the
Armenian; with the beautiful faun who
smoked cigarettes; with prosperous, frock-
coated Turkish gentlemen who sold little
boys for eunuchs and beautiful Circassians
for slaves, and Bibles for—well, for a quite
curious purpose; with the wives of Ameri-
can consuls who bought bathing dresses for
the Sultan’s many wives (they would bathe
on the beach, and they thought the bathing-
costumes too pretty to wet) ; with the dear
old Pasha who had married a young French
wife and who didn't open the great chest in
which she seemed so interested. “What hap-
pened next? My dear fellow, you remind me
of those kids who will never let you finish
their story! Nothing happened next. That
was the beauty of it.’*
War
Another book by Patrick Macgill, The
Great Push (Jenkins), deals with the British
advance at Loos in this Irish writer’s grimly
realistic manner. Practically the whole of
the book was written in the trenches by this
stretcher-bearer, and the remainder in hospi-
tal after he was wounded. Macgill leaves
nothing oiit. He shows us the men writing
their addresses for each other in ease they
should be killed in the charge, and spending
the last of their mpney on Turkish cigar-
ettes and champagne; he' meticulously de-
scribes the charge of the London Irish and
his feelings as he charged; he supplies the
gruesome details of his work: “Men and
pieces of men were lying all over the place.
A leg, an arm, then again a leg, cut off at
the hip. A finely-formed leg, the latter,
gracefully putteed. A dummy leg in a
tailor’s window could not be more graceful.
It might be X; he was an artist in dress, a
Beau Brummel in khaki. Fifty yards further
along I found the rest of X.” And he tells
of the starving men in the trenches and the
loaf of bread that was soaked and red—three
of the rationing party had been wiped out on
the way. But more interesting than these
horrors are the remarks of the men in the
trench. Bill, reading a paper, says: “The
Bishop of says this is a ’oly war.
Blimey, ’e’s talkin’ through ’is ’at. ’Oly,
indeed, it’s ’oly ’e11... .’Ere’s somethin’ about
parsons in this paper. One is askin’ if a
man in ’oly orders should take up arms or
not.”
“Of course not,” said Pryor. “If the par-
sons take up arms, who’ll comfort the women
at home when we’re gone?” “The slackers
will comfort them,” someone remarked. “I’ve
a great respect for slackers. They’ll marry
our sweethearts when we’re dead.”....
“The married men say to the single men:
‘You go and fight, you slackers! We’ll stay
at ’oine; we ’ave our old women to keep !’
Sayin’ that, the swine!” said Bill angrily.
“Them thinkin’ that the single men ’ave
nothin’ to do but to go out and fight for
other men’s wives.”....
“We have no particular hatred for the
men across the way,” said Pryor. “My God,
the trenches tone a man’s temper. When I
was at home (on furlough) our drawing-
room bristled with hatred of some being
named the Hun. Good Heavens! You
should hear the men past military age revile
the Hun. If they were out here we couldn’t
keep them from getting over the top to have
a smack at the foe. And the women ! If
they were out here they would just simply
tear the Germans to pieces. I believe that
we are the wrong men, we able-bodied youths
with even tempers. It’s the men who are
past military age who should be out here.”
Komain Holland’s articles upon the war
have met with a mixed reception. The
author of that tremendous novel, John
Christopher, in which he compares the ideals
of France and Germany, now writes as a
cosmopolitan rather than a Frenchman. lie
does not regard Germany as a nation of bar-
barians. “I know the intellectual and moral
greatness of your mighty race,” he writes
to Hauptmann. “I know all that I owe to
the thinkers of old Germany.” His whole
life-work has been to bring the minds of
these two nations together; and he does not
despair, after the war, of effecting a recon-
ciliation. Naturally such an attitude offends
his own countrymen. But it is this lofty
view-point that, in the volume entitled Above
the Battle (Allen and Unwin, per Sydney
Book Club), proves Rolland a true patriot.
For the. bitter reproaches he permits him-
self against his old friends shows that he
has found them out. And though he has
hard things to say against Panslavism they
are like butter on a lordly dish compared to
the heavy brick he hurls at Pangermanism.
And, after all, it is only the old Germany
that he. loves. “What art have you pro-
duced since the monumental work of Wag-
per? What new and original thought can
you boast of since the death of Nietzsche,
whose magnificent madness has left its traces
upon you though we are unscathed by it?
What German writer can you set up against
Tolstoi and Dostoievsky, those giants of
poetic genius and moral grandeur? In
music Germany has only neurotic jug-
glers with orchestral effects, like Richard
Strauss, but not a single sober and virile
work of the quality of Boris Godunov. No
German musician has opened up new roads.”
But Rolland’s philosophic mind remains
above the battle. He enunciates pregnant
aphorisms: “The European thought of to-
morrow is with the armies. The furious
intellectuals in one camp and the other who
insult one another do not represent it at all.
The voice of the peoples who will return from
the war, after having experienced the ter-
rible reality, will send back into the silence
of obscurity these men....” He draws
attention to the fact that the criticism of
the war is merely that of the older genera-
tion. The younger voice has not yet been
heard above the cannon. And in a striking
article entitled “The Murder of the Elite”
he remarks: “Never, in any period, have we
seen humanity throwing into the bloody
arena all it? intellectual and moral reserves,
its priests, its thinkers, its scholars, its
artists, the whole future of the spirit—•
wasting its geniuses as food for cannon.”
Rolland is a philosophical Pacificist, but
he is no pro-German. His mind is above
the carnage, but his heart is with the
wounded with that most sorely wounded,
France.
Shaw
Another name on the casualty list, Private
Bernard Shaw, obstinately refuses to be dead.
In the dim days of the past, A.o. 11)12 —
which should really be: b.w. 2 (Before the
War) or, if you like the Latin, a.b. 2
Shaw wrote three plays, Androcles and the
Lion, Overruled Tind Pygmalion. Two of
these, at least, were produced to loud
applause and louder controversies: this
shrewd showman has long ago found out
that if you take care of your controvei'sies
the royalties will take care of themselves.
And all three appeared in various magazines.
Hence, for the average reader, the only point
of interest in the belated publication of these
plays in volume form lies in the inevitable
prefaces. But it may be remarked for the
uninfonned reader that Androcles is a de-
lightful comedy of the Early Christians, with
a pantomime lion chasing a comic-Caesar
amid, a coruscation of brilliant repartee, a
Lavinia who is much more alive than Mercia,
and a miracle much more convincing than
the miracle in The Sign of the Cross. And
incidentally Shaw makes the Early Chris-
tians first cousins to the Suffi’agettes. They
are all prepared to die for their faith, but
each apparently has a different faith, and
Lavinia, in the last analysis, discovers that
she hasn’t a faith at all.
The Captaijj : Are you then going to die for
nothing '!
Lavinia : Yes: that is the wonderful thing.
It is since all the stories and the dreams
have gone that I have now no doubt at
all that I must die for something gi’eater
than dreams or stoxues.
The Captain: But for what?
Lavinia : I don’t know. If it were for some-
thing small enough to know, it would
be too small to die for. I think I’m
going to die for God. Nothing else is
real enough to die for.
The Captain : What is God?
Lavinia: When we know that, Captain, we
shall be gods ourselves.
Shaw says that the persecution of the
Chi'istians by Rome was "not a conflict of a
false theology with a true, but an attempt
to suppress a propaganda that seemed to
threaten the interests of the established law
and order. . ...All my articulate Chi-istians
have different enthusiasms,' which they accept
as the same religion only because it involves
them in a common opposition to the official
religion and consequently in a common
doom.” But Androcles is certainly a more
joyous pantomime than any Australia has to
suffer at what should be her festive season,
and a play with more dramatic action and
more humbr in it than anything that has
been imported from the Neutral States.
J*
But in Shaw’s published plays the
preface’s the thing. Usually much longer,
too. The Androcles Preface “on the pros-
pects of Christianity” advances the quite
reasonable suggestion that the world ought
really to give Christianity a trial. And,
naturally, the temptation to re-wi’ite the
Gospels “without prejudice” was too much
for Shaw. The pith of this extraordinarily
interesting restatement of the Gospels is this:
“We must get rid of the idolatrous or mono-
graphic worship of Christ. By this I mean
literally that worship which is given to pic-
tures and statues of him, and to finished and
unalterable stories about him. The test of
the prevalence of this is that if you speak or
write of .Jesus as a real live person, or even as
a still active God, such worshippers are hor-
rified. .. .You may deny the existence of the
divinity of Jesus; you may doubt whether he
ever existed ; you may reject Christianity....
and the iconolaters, placidly contemptuous,
will only classify you as a freethinker or a
heathen. But if you venture to wonder how
Chi'ist would have looked if he had shaved
and had his hair cut, or what size in shoes
he took, or whether he swore when he stood
on a nail in the carpenter’s shop, or could not
button his robe when he was in a hurry, or
whether he laughed over the repartees by
which he baffled the priests when they tried
to trap him into sedition and blasphemy, or
even if you tell any part of his story in the
vivid terms of modem colloquial slang, you
will produce an extraordinary dismay and
horror among the iconolaters. You will
have made the pictura come out of its frame,
the statue descend from its pedestal, the
story become real, with all the incalculable
consequences that may flow from this terrify-
ing miracle. It is at such moments that
you realise that the iconolaters have never
for a moment conceived Christ as a real
person who meant what he said, as a fact, as
a force like electricity, only needing the
invention of suitable political machinery to
be applied to the affairs of mankind with
revolutionary effect.” Therefore he suggests
that it is up to us to give the Christianity of
Jesus a fair deal —and promptly cruels his
philosophic pitch by pointing out the remark-
able rosults that would follow such a revolu-
tionary suggestion. It would mean a sort
of Sosh compared to which the present Tiger
would be merely a tame poodle. It would cei'-
tainlyannoy Quite Respectable People. Which
is an excellent reason why it should be tried.
In his preface to the one-act Overruled
Shaw says: “This piece is not an ai’gument
for or against polygamy. It is a clinical
study of how the thing actually occurs among
quite ordinary people.” lie was apparently
impelled to write this farcical comedy because
all the other farcical comedies he has seen
shirked the last act. Granville Barker
observed that “if the third act of our farci-
cal comedies dared to describe the conse-
quences that would follow from the first and
second in real life, they would end as squalid
tragedies.” Which, Shaw adds, would
greatly improve these entertainments. Shaw
doesn’t want to hear the lies the husband
and the wife tell each other to conceal what
ffhey have done, but the truths they tell each
other when they have to face what they have
done without concealment or excuse. There-
fore he proffers Overruled as a model to all
future writers of farcical comedy. Just as the
Black Death was wiped out when society
faced its sanitary problems, so a worse
plague than the Black Death will disappear
when we face our sexual problems.
Lilt, despite this portentous preface,
Overruled will be found to be quite an innoc-
uous comedy. There are only four people
in it, two conventional wives and their con-
ventional husbands, each husband philander-
ing with the wrong wife. How these affairs
begin is delightfully explained. “Do you
know why half the couples who find them-
selves situated as we are now behave horri-
bly / Its because they have nothing else to
do, and no other way of entertaining each
other. You don’t know what it is to be
alone with a woman who has little beauty
and less conversation. What is a man to do?
She can’t talk interestingly He can’t
look at her: if he does he only finds out that
she isn’t beautiful. Before the end of five
minutes they are both hideously bored. There
is only one thing that can save the situation;
and that’s what you call being horrid. With
a beautiful, witty, kind woman there’s no
time for such follies. It’s so delightful to
look at her, to listen to her voice, to hear all
she has to say, that nothing else happens.
That is why the woman who is supposed to
have a thousand lovers seldom has one;
whilst the stupid, graceless animals of women
have dozens.” And there is a deep philo-
sophic truth hidden somewhere in the state-
ment of Mrs. Lunn, who being, as she ad-
mits “what people call rather a fine figure of
a woman,” is bored by all the men who seem
to think her a creature with volcanic
passions: “All the volcanic women I know
are plain little creatures with sandy hair.”
d*
Pygmalion, with an Australian audience,
would utterly lose its point. For it is a
joyous comedy of phonetics. In England
where every county speaks a different lan-
guage, or at least pronounces the same lan-
guage in a way that is hardly intelligible to
the inhabitants of the next county, and each
strata in society has its own unmistakable
dialect, a Professor of Phonetics might be
able not only to make a living but to take a
flower-girl and in six months make her speak
as well as a duchess. But in this continent
where the same language is spoken the same
way by every class of society, the Professor
of Phonetics wouldn’t be able to find any
subject for his miracle. Our flower-girls
speak as good Australian as do our rag-
emporium society leaders —our only substi-
tutes for duchesses. This is a sample of the
English flower-girl’s speech: “Ow, eez ye-ooa
san, is ’e? Wal, fewd dau y’ de-ooty bawmz
a matlier should, eed now bettern to spawl a
pore gel’s flahrzn than ran awy athaht
pyin. Will ye-oo py me f’tliem?” The
amazing thing is that a “young lady” in-
stantly understands and answers her. Yet
the stuff is excellent comedy, and in the part
of Mr. Doolittle, the flower girl’s father,
Shaw has added one more to his list of
authentic character-studies. ,
It will be remembered, perhaps, for the
echoes of the Pygmalion controversy reached
even our shores, that this is the play in
which the converted flower-girl, dressed like
a duchess, scandalises polite society by say-
ing “bloody.”
Freddy (opening tye door for her) : Are
you walking across the Park, Miss Doolittle?
If go
Liza: Walk! Not bloody likely. (Sen-
sation.) lam going in a taxi.
Evidently the Great Australian Adjective
has reached Bernard Shaw. England can
have it: it is getting rather out-moded here.
Shaw unconsciously admits that he failed
as a playwright in Pygmalion, since he finds
it necessary to add a narrative sequel, ex-
plaining what he omitted to make clear in
the play. The falling of the curtain leaves
the reader, as it did the audience, pretty
certain that Liza would go back to her Pro-
fessor. Shaw says that she didn’t; and ad-
vances various reasons to show that she
married Freddy. Surely that was the busi-
ness of the playwright and not of the writer
of prefaces? He could have made Liza’s
preference plain: he didn’t. And though
Shaw assures us that Liza married Freddy,
this page simply can’t accept his assurance.
And the -assertion that another character in
the comedy subsequently met H. G. Wells
this page also disbelieves. For surely if
Clare was going to meet Wells, Shaw
couldn’t have resisted the opportunity of
lugging H. G. Wells on to the stage and
letting us all see him, with “his pleasant
neatness and compactness, his small hands
and feet, his teeming ready brain, his un-
affected accessibility, and a certain fine ap-
■prehensiveness which stamped him as sus-
ceptible from his topmost hair to his tipmost
toe.” Perhaps Shaw is keeping Wells for
another play....that is, if the'war allows
Shaw to write another play. Somehow this
page can’t forget the sight of his name in the
casualty-list.


me
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
M
J
f 057
Canton Guard Lever Harrows.
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition
of the Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars. . ,
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards or
trashy ground. The ends of the tooth bars being protected, prevents injury from
colliding with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul
the ordinary Harrow. , , „ ~ „
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or
to clear the Harrow of trash. , „ „ . ,
Made in two sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are S inches
long by i inch square.
2 Sections of 25 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Sft.,
complete .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 80/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft.,
complete .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 90/-
THE STAR DISC HARROW
THE STAR DISC
HARROW contains all
the features of any im-
portance in a disc har-
row, and includes besides
many advantages and
conveniences for the
cheap and successful use
of such an implement.
The seat is so arranged
that it can be adjusted
for a light or heavy
driver, and all excess of
weight taken off the
horses’ necks. A two-
wheeled fore truck takes
the place of the pole,
doing away with all
friction on the horses and
enabling the operator to
turn his team in their
own length.
ItSHS
m
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, 16in. size of discs, 3021 b. net weight .. £8
2- or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide. 12 discs. 16in. size of discs, 3691 b. net weight (No. Ts
1065) .. .. .. •• tB/10/ "
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
h
WIARD
PATENT
PLOUGHS
No. 100, Two-Horse Steel Beam Plough, as illustrated, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter, and with Iron Handles; will plough 6in. to 9in. deep, lOin.
to 14in. wide; weight, 1061 b., 80/-. Extra Shares, 2/3.
No. 21, One-Horse Swivel Plough, Wood Beam, will plough 4in. to Tin, deep,
Gin. to lOin. wide; weight, 771 b., 55/-. Extra Shares, 1/9.
ĥ
Blue Jay Plough, lOin. Steel Beam, for t""' Worses, weight 911 b., with one
Steel Share, 87/6. Extra Steel Shares, 10/6.
s
CANTON No. 4
DISC PLOUGH.
THE CANTON DISC PLOUGH has been universally successful for general
use everywhere (in hard. soft. dry. wet, old or hew soil).
The" Discs are 26in. in diameter, and the Single Disc will turn furrows from
3 to 12 inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions between
each Disc. The Discs have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle to
revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely over
and is thoroughly pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10 or 12 inches.
1- weight 6721 b. . . •• • • • - • Price, £lB
2- weight 7SOlb. . . .. • • • • Price, £23
3- weight 9001 b. .. . • • • • • Price, £25
26in. Spare Discs, 24/- each.
-fttraysLi
liOLiiyEMSsffS
WIARD ROAD OR CONTRACTORS’ PLOUGHS, medium, weight 2001 b., very
substantial, and is heavy enough for ordinary road or contractors’ work when
used with two or four horses .. .. .. •• •• •• £5/17/6
Extra Steel Shares, Wrought .. .. .. .. . • • • 20/-
The No. 68 PLOUGH, Extra Heavy, weight 3251 b £9/15/-
Extra Wrought Steel Shares .. .. . . .. • • • • 27/6
We can recommend these Floughs for heavy excavating and all kinds of
contractors’ work, “Good Roads’’ work, to builders and users of road machines,
and in all cases where great strength and capacity are required.
m
ma
WIARD ONE-HORSE
GARDEN PLOUGH.
TWT? WTART) RIGHT-HAND WOOD BEAM PLOUGH is the smallest
Wiard^Plough 1 made. It has an adjustable beam, allowing the horse to walk in the
furrow or on the land. It turns a furrow three to five inches deep, and six t
eight inches wide, and weighs 40 pounds. For simplicity of construction, ease m
handling, light draught and great strength it has no equal.
No. 62, as illustrated, with Wheel .. . • • • • • **/ m
■ a
iron ploughs.
No. 0. One-Horse Iron Plough, as illustrated, with one extra share and spanner:
weight 1161 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth and width . . • • £4/5/-
Two-Horse Iron Plough, similar to No. 0, but much stronger .. £6
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight 5211>.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth
and width .. .. .. •• .. •• .. •• ••
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


h
*
9
w fo* f
Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols
No matter how accurate a rifle or pistol may be, if
the cartridges used in it are variable, the results ob-
tained will be disappointing. Winchester cart-
ridges in all calibers are sure fire, accurate and
uniform. They are made by experts in a plant
having every facility for turning out perfect
work. A trial will prove their high quality.
i ASK FOR THF W BRAND.
i
m
v^<
SF
wA
m
Sa
/m
MARK
TRADE
Q
ĥ
Better Health
Added Beaut)
Are Yours
THESE great human desires come
true with but small outlay of effort
and money through
GOOD TEETH
Do not allow indifference to stand in
your way of having a life time of good
looks and vigor. Good teeth pay. They
are easy to have by visiting your den-
tist twice a year and using
Dr. Lyon's
PERFECT
Tooth Powder
Dental Cream
Berth Dr. Lyon’s Perfect Tooth Powder and Dental Cream are safe
dentifrices and superior and efficient preparations. Both are equal in
preserving and cleansing powers. Both at alternating periods should
e used to secure and retain good teeth. Tooth powder is the super•
cleanser. To those exercising that preference the wise
su gg est ion is offered of an accasional use of tooth
powder to secure the highest efficiency from the
preservative agents embodied in both preparations.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores. Send 3d.
in stamps today for a dainty sample package of either
Dr. Lyon's Perfect Tooth Powder or Dental Cream.
V-"*' rCT -
SH
for C.lMmsira»
4 Bewiiift iihJ
WETtlffl
AND PURif VINBi'
i THt BRt4TH ,§
isrKNTfl
I. W. LYON & SONS, Inc.
Lower Cuba St.
Wellington, N.Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
spati izss&r'-* - -
keeninar «fiSi P !8I«S Wl r a n |? t ln ( gl ' v tr - v , to Preserve their teeth ns long as possible by
ineffectual TtmSh noJw« if 1 ’ and - S ,°« P , :iT1(1 water are useful, but somewhat
are on the P e n ”mel.’ "" cutt,ef,Bh ’ cn.bseje., crude chalk, and charcoal
the Sth E h?r J den o^J H P ' ASTE prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
mmSSS?* harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay)
!w EN J A fl therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
v hei e. 1 ost free 1/3. t ree sample posted. ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
FEDERAL LORRIES
ass
HE
The firestone Tire &RubberC<x|
o*i
The World’s Carriers
Federal Lorries are operating in almost every country on the globe.
Built in one of the largest factories of the world devoted exclusively
to the manufacture of lorries, Federals have earned a world-wide
reputation from thousands of satisfied owners.
Federal Lorries are worm-drive exclusively. Made in three sizes—
l-|-ton, 2-ton, 3|-ton.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
A Company of great financial strength and stability.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN,
U.S.A.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT
18 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Cable Address: Lockwood, New York.
Awarded the Only Gold Medal at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.
WAVERLEY
THE “ BOON AND BLESSING ” NIB
Uwumur
You can depend on a Waverley.
Its quality and durability make
it a world-wide favourite. It
writes so smoothly and lasts so
well that one Waverley outlasts
two or three nibs of an inferior
kind. The Reservoir Waverley
does 200 words with one dip.
6d. & 1/- PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS
AND DEALERS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
Steel, Gold a Fountain Pen Makers
Edinburgh, Glasgow a London
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ħ
MODERN TOOLS
FOR THE
GARDEN and
FLOWERS.
“NORCROSS" Cultivator-hoes
have revolutionised Hand
Cultivating. The sharp,
tapering Shovels literally
tear up the earth from
lin. to 6in. deep, leav-
ing ground level, loose
and untrampled. And it
is done with such ease
and speed as to make
gardening an extreme
pleasure.
They work closer to
plants without injuring
them than any other
tool.
Ask your Ironmonger
or write our Agents—
S. SCOTT-YOUNG LTD.,
1 Bond Street, Sydney
h
C. S. NORCROSS & SONS, Manufacturers,
Bushnell, Illinois, U.S.A.
NERVES
And how to keep
them sound.
NERVES are the source of continuous worry to-day to some
people holding Civil, Military, Social or Commercial posi-
tions. . When leaders of society, commerce, war, politics, or
other professionals, feel the strain almost to breaking point, the
nerves are found to be the weak spot in the chain of healthy life.
The ability and fitness to do things depend upon real good sound
nerves.
* * * *
In volcanic times like these, when the nerves of the world
are on edge, the nerves of the individual often show their weakness
and give way.
* * #
This is the time when the real,
One Great Nerve-strengthening Clements Tonic
should be taken and the nerves put right. For that it does put them
right, and quickly and permanently, is vouched for by such well-
known professional persons as Madame Brola, Miss Agnes Murphy
(Madame Melba’s biographer and secretary to the late Quinlan
Opera Company), and others equally well known in the profession.
* * # *
Clements Tonic is a healer of the nerves. It strengthens the
brain that supplies power, and it helps to keep fit those who are fit
and healthy, as well as the one who is ailing and seeking health.
Do not be without this really good medicine. It does general good.
It is the advance agent of healthy life. When you keep it in a sense
you keep yourself insured against ill-health.
* * * *
GET IT FROM YOUR CHEMIST AND GET WELL TO-DAY.


RHEUMATISM
Its Cause—and Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by a curious,
poisonous acid in the blood. This acid, just
like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and
causes that awful agonising pain of back-
ache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the
bladder, etc.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
strengthen the kidneys and drive the
poisonous pain-causing acid right out of the
system.
mm
mm\*
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid
of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Itemember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change to
a muddy bluish color —a feature which dis-
tinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others—you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing
touch on the right spot—the kidneys and
the bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to
the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s pills
give such amazingly quick relief —every
time. A permanent cure follows in almost
every case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
They will cure every one of the above
symptoms no matter how long or how badly
you have suffered.
DeWITTS
Kidneys Bladder Pills
Nature's Safest Remedy.
ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW; it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
TOBACCO KILLS!
Z.
KT&
a
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Pari: harm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I teas a hard smoker for 30
years, hut since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. Q,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney, is.
INGTON
w
CARRAOC
P2n
lIRKHH
nf^OCMS. COLDS t
(EOftM ao
Bonninp ton’s
IRISH 6 moss
For Baby
Every child is prone to ailments of the chest
and lungs, COUGHS, COLDS, WHOOPING
COUGH, etc. The wise mother will at once
fly to “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss,’’ the safest and
most RELIABLE household remedy. The
SAFEST for baby is—
Avoid all
Imitations.
BONNINGTON’S
Food enjoyed is
Food more nourishing.
TASTY DISHES
are easily, quickly
and cheaply prepared
when Bisto is at hand.
For soups and gravies,
Bisto is thickening,
colouring and season-
ing all in one.
fIjSTO
All Grocers. In Tins. Made by Cerf.bos, Ltd.
“ Everything
but the meat."
Letters Copied While Writing
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paps';
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bm. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/2CO Book, size 103 x
83, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper, which
produces this result, free, if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic. Leicester, England^
w
HONTSERRAf
SAUCE
o
as
tA
C
mu
a
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
r
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
h
2/-
per bottle.
per bottle.
ALU BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GR EAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.. 68 Deansgate Arcade. Manchester. England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Little House.
When my heart goes a-roving
’Tis the wide ways for me,
And the fields and the hills,
And the big, blue sea.
Then ’tis far, far I wander,
And ’tis little that you care,
With your wiles and your smiles
And your eyes and your hair.
But the dream of you follows,
Or it gleams at my side;
And I turn, turn about,
For the world seems too wide.
There’s a rose-mist about you
And ’tis sweet, sweet you are,
With your throat and your cheeks
And your face like a star.
When my heart comes a-homing
’Tis the little house I see,
Where you sit all alone
With a stool nigh for me.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Somewhere in France.
My heart is breaking, but I may not weep,
Nor ease my grief by word or sign or
glance —
Only a private, sleeping his last sleep
Somewhere in France!
None knew we loved; to mourn I had no
right, .
Save as one mourns a passing friend,
perchance;
Only he knows, who fell there in the fight,
Somewhere in France.
A puppet I, with jest to jest replying;
The strings are pulled—l nod and smile
and dance....
But all my heart beneath the sod is lying
Somewhere in France.
QUEENSLAND.
H. A. SMITH.
Heart Free.
So many loves have I: the changing sea,
Gold sunlight glinting on an outstretched
wing,
The slope of hills, the strong wind high and
free,
And everv crvstal note the lark may sing.
Gorse-perfumed winding roads, the budding
The gleam of lily by the river’s brim,
Soft swelling downs, the busy hum of bees
Mid columbines, and wallflowers Quaker-
prim.
Earth circled, can I miss your clasping
arm,
Kissed on the mouth by every breeze that
blows?
For your inconstancy what need of balm
While every hedge blooms with a fragrant
rose?
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Pot Plants.
In this, our stylish boarding-house,
Where’er a fellow turns,
Are shepherdesses stroking cows,
And beautiful epergnes.
The stairway is as wide as those
We find in tales that thrill,
Where Jack, the hero, cuddles close
And kisses sweetheart Jill;
And where the runner does not run
With leaps like startled hare’s,
Away from wind and rain and sun,
Are pot plants on the stairs.
Set out in random, careless ways,
They lift green, quiet fronds
Like palms that shield from solar rays
Some cool and silent ponds.
The rain may lash the dripping roof,
The wind may lose its breath,
The sunlight may be overproof—
They are as still as death.
Whene’er the world goes wrong with me
And life seems filled with cares,
I find calm courage when I see
Those pot plants on the stairs.
They look so darned respectable—
A boarder would be mad
To gaze on foaming flagons full
And come home feeling glad,
With muttering lips and tilted hat
And feet like hoofs of steel,
To seek to clamber to his flat
With all the world a-reel!
Oh! if he clutched and held awhile
Those waving palm-affairs. . ..
I think I see them primly smile,
Those pot plants on the stairs!
I’ve seen a slim maid water them
And wash their pampered stalks.
I’ve noticed how her short skirt’s hem
Flit-flutters as she walks.
Through an enamelled window pane
The light flashed varied hues
Upon her; but it tried in vain
To touch her with the blues.
For, as she plied her water-can,
She sang old-fashioned airs
About a stairway and a man
And kisses on the stairs.
* * #
A burglar called an hour ago;
He crept in like a thief,
And wandered through the rooms below
With cheek beyond belief.
Lulled by the sight of fair epergnes
In our swell boarding-house—
Of milkmaids at their china churns
And shepherds milking cows—
He started up, without a light....
I heard his burst of prayer
As he went crashing through the night
With pot plants in his hair.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


Look
After Australian Industries.
CHANGE our old-fashioned
methods of always relying
upon some importer to
supply our requirements.
To keep on top Australia must
not import more than is exported,
yet during the six months ending
30th June, 1916, Australia im-
ported tyres and rubber goods to
the value of £528,691, two-thirds
of which came from other than
Allied countries.
, Australian Tyre Manufacturers
could easily have supplied these
tyres and rubber goods, thereby
keeping our money in the country
and giving constant employment
to thousands of Australian work-
people.
Think this over carefully.
u
r.
-7
Pk.RO/iIAU RUBB R CO. LTD.,
All States.
HE PERDRIAU TYRE.—
There is a great deal in the
design of a motor tyre, but
added to that must be the relia-
bility that can come only from
workmanship that is accurate,
based on thorough knowledge of
the materials used.
The Rib feature is scientifically
correct and superior to studs or
projections of the usual non-skid
tyre—these cause abnormal strain
on the fabric under them, whereas
the Perdriau extra-thick three-rib
type, gripping the road with three
ribs, distributes the load evenly
on the full surface of the tyre,
thus positively eliminating tread
separation, fabric trouble and
skidding.
Perdriau Tyres are Made in Australia.
I
ĥ
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee "
to Ever y Property Owner and Galvanized
iron User. This Book contains a quantity^*
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and in teresting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.^o
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
ħ
h
SMITH’S
Four-Jet Carburetter
is the only one which gives maximum power with
maximum economy. Holds World’s Record —maximum
power—R.A.C. certificate —30 '6l miles to gallon
car.
Fitted Standard, Crossley, Humber, Daimler,
Tillings-Stevens and Lanchester, Sizaire-Berwick.
Follow Experts’ Advice.
Fit SMITH’S Carburetter,
Write full particulars to
S. SMITH SONS,
London,
and 199 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
When You are Packing
Xmas Boxes
E
X
eiuitf
W/ 3373
f / Drt a
/ <f £3/7 t r
' GR'G&Oe /
*C7ll/£ I .
SJSfi V'C/S i
'' )
Xr> R* 'Qifi
IT&r
, o
<v » o •
?•>!
n
•Vi*
mmm
3g£
<* v
i
I
For the Boys
somewhere on
the other side
Send them things that will be of use to
them. Say—Cake, Plum Pudding. Tobacco,
Pipes, Cigarettes, Coffee and Milk, Choco-
late and Milk, Chocolate —a tin each of —
“REX”
Ham Pate,
Luncheon Cheese,
Veal and Tongue
Pate.
Of course you can make up a box according
to your own ideas, but the above are lines
the “Boys” like best. We especially recom-
mend Rex Ham Pate, Rex Luncheon Cheese
and Rex Veal and Tongue Pate being in-
cluded, because they are nourishing, appetis-
ing and afford the maximum of food value
for a minimum of bulk. Rex Luncheon
Cheese in particular is a fighting man’s
food that will keep in good condition for a
reasonable time after being opened.
You can buy them at your
Grocer’s. Order them
to-day.
Insist on getting
“REX" Brand
Always.
FOGGITT, JONES & GO. LTD
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon;
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Produots.
E
X
BfUMj
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
A Threefold Combination.
Refinement, Efficiency & Equipment.
Highest Quality.
Moderate Cost to Purchasers.
Dodge Brothers Motor-Car has many features that
are unusual in a Car of so moderate a price, and repre-
sents a combination of refinement, efficiency and
equipment that is of more than ordinary interest to the
intending purchaser.
There has been no effort to produce a Car that
would sell at a low price, but there has been a genuine
interest in building a Car in which the material, the
design and the manufacturing practice would represent
the highest quality at a moderate cost to the purchaser.
Dodge Brothers have brought to bear upon the
accomplishment of this purpose an extraordinary experi-
ence, immense production capacity, and complete financial
independence.
THE MOTOR IS 24-R.A.C. RATING.
THE WHEEL BASE IS 110 INCHES.
Dalgety & Company Limited,
Agents, 136-138 Philiip Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 37.—N0. 1909.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1916.
Pkice 6d.
THE HERO.
The total loan expenditure during the past six years had been £41,000,000. The loan expenditure of their predecessors, the Carruthers and Wade
Ministries, was £13,000,000, or an average of £2,000,000 a year. If those Governments had spent money at the rate of £4,000,000 a year, the Labor
Government would not have been confronted with the desperate arrears which met them when they took office.— N.S.W. Treasurer Holman's Financial Statement.
HOLMAN (to Police-Constable the Public): “Ish not my fault, conshabl. There wash Arshdeacon Boyce never had a drink all lash week; an’ Jimmy Marion,
he didn’t have one yesherday; an’ Arshbish’p Wright shon water-waggon; so I been very busy all evenin’ wipin' out their arrears."


Special Notice to Agents.
In consequence of the scarcity of paper, we
regret that we are compelled to discontinue
allowing for unsold copies of “THE
BUIXETIN.”
You will therefore be good enough to favor
us with an order for the minimum number
required.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, ior The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £l 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drajts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Fditor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Terse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Neivspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it tvill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
niRKCT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Afiuca. — -The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, San Francisco;
Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San
Diego, Cal.; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Home Neivs Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sioz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to ISoz., Sd.; elsewhere, koz., Id., and Id. each
additional Soz.
ffluTSSzzZZefzn,.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1916.
THE PRINCIPLES OF THE
CENSORSHIP.
The first difficulty which confronts any
democracy in getting to holts with an
enemy and trying to smash or choke him
into submission is the lack of a sufficiently
intimate and swift connection between the
brain centre and the limbs of the body
politic. When an autocrat, who is lord of
life and death over a nation, conducts war,
his action can be just about as swift as his
thought, and the secrecy with which he does
things as complete as the firm line of his
closed mouth. True, the effect of the thing
he does depends upon the goodwill of the
human tools with which he works; and the
mere fact that they are called upon for
blind, unintelligent service may take a lot
off the edge of their effort. Democracy, on
the other hand, is the keenest weapon in all
the armory .of humanity, once it is brought
to the point of united and intelligent action;
and if, in the nature of warfare, it is almost
inevitable that the autocrat should get in
the first blow, it is equally sure that
Democracy, once properly roused, will make
the most sustained, earnest and enduring
fight. But while the brain of the auto-
cratic system resides under one man’s hat,
that of Democracy is diffused over a whole
community; and many an accident may
happen to the nerve connections between
that diffused brain and the hitting parts of
the machine. No enemy can possibly get
inside the person of the autocrat to tap the
wireless messages which run from thought-
cell to fist: but it is quite possible by
espionage and treachery for the enemy to
get at the proposals and intentions of a
Democracy. For this reason the people of
any free land under popular rule must in
the event of war delegate some of thejr
power to representatives and leave those
representatives to set up a Censorship which
will keep the enemy’s fingers out of the
national pot. The Censorship thus becomes
an integral part of Democracy at war and
a safeguard against perils inseparable from
a political system which has the habit of
posting its inmost thoughts on the largest
hoarding available.
* * * *
At the outset of the present war a press
Censorship was seen to be necessary in Aus-
tralia. Enemy ships were abroad in Aus-
tralian waters. Enemy subjects in large
numbers mixed with the ordinary popula-
lation. War on enemy possessions to the
north of Australia had been undertaken by
Australian forces. There was a very real
need for secrecy lest the thoughts and plans
of the Commonwealth should reach those who
were seeking our hurt and enable them to
checkmate or counter our efforts, or at any
rate to delay and hamper them. There was
a moment when the city of Sydney was
threatened by the guns of the enemy, and
when the knowledge of the whereabouts of
our Australian fleet might have meant the
murder of citizens in their beds and the
destruction of their property. That the
press at such a time should be restrained
from telling the public things which it was
particularly anxious to know, but of which
it could not be informed without letting the
agents of the enemy into the secret also,
was of the utmost importance. No sane man
could grumble at a Censorship that pre-
vented his throat being cut or his suburban
roof removed by shell fire. How far the
same conditions still exist only those in
authority know. The general opinion is
that the danger is long past; but the con-
stantly-increasing extension of the Censor-
ship gives the lie to this. Remembering
always the sole purpose for which that Cen-
sorship exists, those who control it are
asserting loudly by its greater severity and
scope that the danger to Australia is now at
least 10 times more acute than it was before
the Sydney caught he Emden or the German
fleet was blown to extinction at the Falkland
Islands.
* * * *
It was recently suggested that the
Censorship, which is now nominally in
the hands of the Military power, should
be strengthened by the appointment of
an ex-journalist of very high standing.
But this is not at all sufficient. We have a
High Court which was called into being
to safeguard the liberties of the people.
Now, enormous possibilities of attacking and
undermining the rights and privileges of the
people lie in the Censorship. Ordinarily
the press is the guardian of the public
interest. If a wrong is being done, it
is to the press that the discoverer of the
wrong takes his knowledge. Or he tells his
tale upon a platform to half a dozen people
perhaps, and the press tells it to half a dozen
millions. The public does not know now the
things it is not permitted to know. That
is to say, newspapers are not permitted
to tell what things are censored, and
there can be no protest against it.
The public must not be informed that
a wrong is proceeding. This is a power
too vast to hand over to party politi-
cians. It is a power which at least should
be subservient to the High Court; and no
regulation or instruction should have any
force until it had the approval of a Judge
of the Court. No work of equal importance
confronts the distinguished Bench. It is
not judicial work, perhaps, in the ordinary
way; but it is work of exactly the same
character as that which the High Court was
created to perform.
WHAT A FRIVOLOUS PERSON CAN
DO WITH A CASHBOX.
Australia’s noblest spender started the
other day to make what he called “a state-
ment on the financial position of the coun-
try,” and devoted most of it to hiding the
position, pouring the oil of gladness over
himself and talking nonsense. As Treasurer
of N. S. Wales Holman’s latest yarn com-
menced with references to his “surplus,”
which is a mere superstition, went on to
assurances that he had carried the country to
a situation of great prosperity, added some
foolishness about the growth of bank
deposits, and ended with the mournful con-
fession that “I am financing from month to
month, not knowing what a day or an hour
may bring forth.” A brilliant genius attired
like Solomon in all his glory burst into Syd-
ney a few years ago and talked like a rich
uncle from Fiji. He may have had 2d., but
even that is doubtful. In a few months he
had a million or so, with palatial offices and
a reputation which commanded the respect of
everybody who wanted to sell a gold brick.
This paper is not quite clear where he is
to-day, but if there is 2d. about him it belongs
to someone else, and his reputation is mostly
a long, lingering smell. Holman ought to
read his history. It will put him wise to the
awful unreality of some surpluses.
* * * #
William Holman’s main claim to distinc-
tion is that, as leader of a party elected upon
a distinct pledge to restrict borrowing, he has
in six years touched Coiien for £41,000,000;
and he justifies himself by the comic explana-
tion that he was driven to do it because the
party which preceded him had in a similar
period borrowed only £13,000,000. “If they
had borrowed £4,000,000 a year,” he says,
“we would not have been confronted with the
arrears.” Coming from anyone else this fan-
tastic effort would sound like a cynical con-
fession of belief that the public is less intelli-
gent than a wallaby. Coming from llolman
it merely corroborates the evidence he has
already given that he handles his job in a
spirit of levity. Those Labor voters who
have not been corrupted by the crowd which
captured the machine will remember that this
Government came into existence, not to
borrow more, but with high hope of ending
a disastrous period of borrowing. That was
the excuse of Ministers for throwing out
their predecessors. When was the party
guilty of false prptences—‘formerly, when it
secured office on the ground that the Wade
crowd had borrowed too much, or now, when
it asks to be kept in office because the Wade
crowd hadn’t borrowed enough? Holman
and his friends can’t have it both ways. They
were frauds six years ago or they are frauds
now. But the Holman theory holds out in-
teresting possibilities for the future. The
next crowd will be encouraged to borrow
£100,000,000, offering the obvious explana-
tion that it was compulsory to do this
because the previous Government had left
them large arrears of borrowing to make up.
There is no special reason why anyone
should borrow £41,000,000. For every
pound of-“revenue” raised by taxation and
the sale of public lands, and derived from
railways and other services and State
enterprises, Holman has borrowed an
almost equal amount. Why not borrow
double that sum? The beginning, middle
and tail of the yarn is that the coun-
try’s financial position is “splendidly buoy-
ant,” as a result of borrowing £41,000,000.
Why not make it more splendidly buoyant
by borrowing £82,000,000? The present Gov-
ernment’s successor will certainly have just
as good an excuse for borrowing that much
as the present Government has for borrowing
£41,000,000.
* * * *
The cheerful Juggins assures the public
that his splodge has not increased taxation—
that the average taxation per head by the
State in the six years preceding his jag was
£2 10s. 10d., while during the period of the
boom that goes before the burst it has been
£2 Bs. sd. The figures are wrong; the basis
of the argument rotten. The averages for
the two periods are 15s. 2id. and £1 3s. 7d.
If Commonwealth taxation be added, the
average totals are: 1904-10, £3 ss. 5d.;
1910 16. £4 16s. lOd. But in this connection
averages mean nothing. It is the figures for
each successive year that count, and for
State taxation in N. S. Wales they are: —
s. d. £ b. d.
1904- .. 15 3 1910-11 .. 12 6
1905- .. 17 5 1911-12 .. 1 2 2
1906- .. 18 5 1912-13 .. 15 10
1907- .. 13 3 1913-14 .. 1 5 6
1908- .. 11 7 1914-15 .. 111 9
1909- .. 15 4 1916-16 .. 114 0
1c is no use pretending these figures mean
anything except that taxation has been more
than doubled since the Labor party came
into office. But there is nothing to be
ashamed of in increased taxation. The test
in such matters is not the figures themselves
but the benefits derived by the taxpayer. In
this instance the increase, levied in forms
which are passed on to the common herd,
represents the price of a spree on bor-
rowed cash. The Labor party made a good
beginning. Its members had theories of
economy and decency when they first took
office. Arthur Griffith was made Min-
ister for Works simply and solely because
he was an offensive person who was credited
with a large capacity for saying “No,” and
that was then regarded as the prime qualifi-
cation of a Labor Minister for Works. Of
their virtues they quickly purged themselves,
however, and went out on the jamboree. Now
they are wringing out of the public more
than twice as much as was wrung by the
Government whose exactions had originally
filled the Labor party with alarm and dis-
gust. For the current year’s excitement
and the further sustentation of the borrow-
ing orgy, additional taxation is imperative;
but because there is a general election at
hand Holman prefers to say nothing about
the subject. Meanwhile by paying 51 per
cent, to the Norton Griffiths syndicate
for money and 1 per cent, for underwriting
and 5 per cent, for spending, the Govern-
ment is able to keep the pot boiling.
•* * * *
As proof that we are prosperous the
young man tells us about the growth of
bank deposits. Of course bank deposits
have grown: the growth represents his
borrowings. So too the railways would
have revealed an immense loss had it not
been that they have been held up by the
borrowing; they have been earning revenue
by dragging about great masses of imported
goods acquired with the cash borrowed
from the benevolent Coiien. If a demented
so.uatter with a swag of coin obtained by
mortgaging his flocks turned up at Coota-
bidjibidgi and proceeded to paint the land-
scape red, one definite result would be a
large increase in the township’s bank
deposits. If the lunatic stayed long enough
and had sufficient currency, everybody
in Cootabidjibidgi would have an account
and be brandishing a cheque-book. And
the local carrier would do a thriving trade
carting up more booze than the population
ever heard of. In the same manner a State
that borrows millions cannot point to the
banking or business figures as evidence of
soundness. Victoria had never imported
so much nor had such dazzling banking
figures as in the days immediately before
the explosion and the discovery that behind
it all there were only a few finks. llolman
on his own admission is at the stage when
he doesn’t know whether there is even half
a fink to fall back on. What he does know,
though, is that the whole crazy superstruc-
ture of finance, and legislation, and wild-
cat State enterprise erected by him is’built
on sand. The king pin of it is the pawn
ticket, and the day he cannot pawn the
nation he will see his blessed “prosperity”
toppling over. He knows, too, that it is at
that point a defrauded people will have to
start and make good the arrears created by
his scandalous betrayal of the citizens.
WHEN AUSTRALIA VOTED “NO.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The unexpected had happened. Australia,
by a substantial majority, had voted “No
Conscription.” The single men training
in the camps were thereupon given an honor-
able discharge and in a body joined the
R.S.A. There were, here and there, a few
conscientious objectors, who obstinately held
to the belief that Australians should still
fight for Australia, and insisted on being
sent to the Front. It was held by the rest of
Australia that the continent would be well
rid of these irreconcilables. So they were
stealthily- shipped off to reinforce their
equally 'misguided comrades in France: and
as they sailed the steam-whistles gave them
three derisive hoots.
That is the point where this story begins.
All the preceding is ancient history. So here
it is necessary to introduce Bill Fitz-Jim.
lie had enlisted with the first contingent, he
was in the first landing at Anzac, and he was
one of the 854 soldiers who were absolutely
the last soldier to leave Gallipoli. Private
Bill Fitz-Jim, for all his bravery, remained
a private. When he arrived in France he
looked around and found how few of his
cobbers had survived with him, and a legiti-
mate ambition stirred in his honest soul that
some day he might become a lance-corporal.
But promotion passed him by for many
months, though soon, owing to his company’s
losses, he was the only remaining original
member. Nevertheless Fate had something
in store for Private Bill Fitz-Jim. If it
had not been for that Referendum he would
probably have remained a private to this
day. But when he learnt that Australia had,
by a substantial majority, refused to send
any more reinforcements to the Australian
army, except the negligible dribbles of the
last dregs of voluntary enlistment, he openly
rejoiced.
“You see,” he said, in answer to his com-
rades’ scandalised protests, “it’s this way.
It’s up to me to be made a lance-jack; but
my company has been wiped out and built up
again with drafts so often —you blokes is
only blanky drafts, anyway, and I’m the
whole bleeding company—that nobody knows
I’ve been ’ere so long. I’ve, had five C.O.’s
and 15 platoon-sergeants, and I’ve lost count
of adjutants and corporals and such. And
none of my superior officers ever stay long
enough to recernise me. They get killed or
wounded or transferred, and the new C.O.’s
and company-sergeants naturally prefer the
non-coms, in the drafts they came over with.
So here I am, Private Bill Fitz-Jim, first
in the Landing and last to hop off the blanky
Peninsula. But now, don’t you see, there
ain't no more drafts coming. We got to
carry on by our blanky selves. Australia
says she ain’t got no further interest in the
Anzacs. We got to carry on by our blanky
selves. See? No more drafts. That means
that as we gets casualtied some of us has got
to be promoted to fill their places. And
that’s where Private Bill Fitz-Jim comes
in.”
He possessed a logical mind. He waited
till the last of the privates was bombed, and
then, with a becoming modesty, wore the
single stripe on his sleeve. The first step,
as is proverbial, was the most difficult. The
day he got his stripe he led a raid on the
German trenches and returned a sergeant.
The next day, so rapidly had the army
dwindled without reinforcements, he sug-
gested an impossible counter-attack that
made him a colonel. But in a week he was
back in the ranks again. For the remnants
of this heroic, though minute, army had to
be drafted into a single platoon composed
entirely of officers of the higher commands.
Colonel Fitz-Jim was the only colonel in
the platoon; all the others were his superior
officers. They were commanded in person by
General Bibdwood, temporarily acting as a
platoon commander. And again it was
Colonel Fitz-Jim who. dissatisfied at his
subordinate post, led the last of the Anzacs
in a forlorn hope against the Hun. This
time he had inconceivable luck. He saw
every one of his superior officers shot down
by a German machine-gun, and struggling
on, untouched, stood a moment on the Ger-
man entrenchment and proudly promoted
himself, first to the position of Australian
Chief of Staff, and then to the command,
vice General Birdwood, wounded, of the
whole Anzac Army.
Then, carrying the last Australian flag, he
nobly surrendered. He had got what he
wanted. And as Australia, when it said
“No,” had surrendered in 1916, he saw no
reason why he should attempt to defeat the
collective vote of his countrymen.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Soaping the Stairs.
In the violent game of politics, as played
under party rules, the soaping of the front
stairs is a matter of tremendous importance.
To get to office is a great thing; to stick to
office a glad thing; but to so arrange matters
that, if possible, no successor shall have any
decent show of carrying on is the supreme
thing. If an employer found that one of
his workers so arranged matters that in the
event of his dismissal no one else could
take up his work and carry it on with
success, he would have that worker taught
that such things were not to be; but the
community, which is in effect the employer
of the politician, has been taught to regard
party as an excuse for pretty well anything
and never seems to realise the high price it
has to pay for the soap on the stairs and
the consequent fall. Masses of work undone
or underdone; promises of this, that and
the next thing; bills hustled through in
shapeless mass to make confusion, where,
under the old order, there was inequality
but something like plain system—these
things are not mere chance or due to clumsy
floundering of light-weight legislators in
heavy boots, but are often part and parcel of
the deliberate design to soap the stairs for
the next fellow’s fall. Here a railway is
started. It is a fool railway which runs
from nowhere to nowhere, but a section or
two is put in hand by the falling Ministry,
and a host of workers, speculators and
hangers-on are made interested in it. The
new Ministry, which comes up the soapy
staircase, must stop that railway construc-
tion in the interests of decency ; yet in doing
so it makes mortal enemies of all those
interested people, and the general public
opinion is divided between the statement
of the stair-climbers that the railway is no
good and the combined statements of those
who have just gone out of the back door
and the interested parties they have created
that the railway is the key to Paradise. Or
a Ministry fairly solidly seated sets out on
a financial campaign which involves 20
years of intense borrowing. Its own term
of office is only three years; but it
smiles in security, knowing how thoroughly
those prearranged visits to Cohen have
soaped the stairs which reform must face
before it can get in even a first cut with


[ 10 ? Xe ‘ ie P r ' ce ias always to be paid
f- u for the extensive ramifications
or the game; but it is so integral a part of
the_ whole theory of party government that
plain Edward Billings, of the one-vote-
pne-yawn brigade, never dreams that he
isn t getting value for his money or that
there are more business-like methods of
carrying on the work of the country. What
Billings and Smith and others" fail to
grasp is that the soap put on the stairs is
cumulative as well as concurrent, and that
between parties and terms of office nobody
gets in with a mop or bucket to clean up
the mess. The stairs grow more and more
slippery, the waste of soap is greater and
greater and the bill for the whole thing is
constantly mounting up. Continued to its
logical conclusion, the game must make the
staircase in such condition that nobody can
climb it at all; and the excess of slipperi-
ness running out into the street must brifig
down even those ordinary citizens with no
political ambitions who are merely attempt-
ing to hurry along the pavement to catch
U P with some overdue fragment of Aus-
tralia’s work. In a word, the party system,
if somebody doesn’t now and again rise a
little above party, works towards a final
and universal bump of a most disastrous
kind. In most countries that are cursed
with the party system, somebody has occa-
sionally risen above party and the stairs
have been partly cleaned; but in Australia
there isn’t the slightest indication of any
such good fortune. The alleged truce
owing to the w T ar notwithstanding, party
was never before so complete in its sway
or so virulent in its working, nor was the
stair-soaping industry ever more in evidence.
In fact, the state of the staircase is now
such that no one except a professional poli-
tical tumbler will make even an attempt
to climb it; and if any non-party reformer
should arise he will have to insist on put-
ting up a ladder and getting in by the attic
windows.
Another Aspect of the Seven-
Parliament Disease.
N.S.W. Premier Holman proposes that the
Ma State shall make provision for incapaci-
tated soldiers by supplementing the pension
by so much as will bring the allowance to £3
weekly. On the face of it, any project for
making easier the lot of the victims of war is
commendable. But there are very solid objec-
tions to the Holmans of Australia butting in
on the business. It is one wholly within the
competence of the Federal Parliament to deal
with, and no encouragement, should be given
that tribunal to think it can fob its respon-
sibilities on to the States. Soldiers enlisted
in N. S. Wales or any other State are not
entering the service of a State. They are
soldiers of the Commonwealth, and it is the
Federal authority alone that is responsible to
them and to the nation for protection against
the consequences of disablement. No reason-
able ground exists for supposing that this re-
sponsibility will be satisfactorily discharged
if seven Parliaments commence handling it.
The _ inevitable result will be confusion, re-
crimination and duplication of administration
and taxation. If Holman must provide pen-
sions for someone there are ample opportuni-
ties for getting rid of cash, and at the same
time doing work strictly within the State
domain. Soldiers’ widows, for instance, are
not the only widows. There are many
orphaned children and women deprived of
their breadwinners who deserve as well of the
community. Anyhow, their fathers and hus-
bands were in the callings’ of peace serving
their country as well as they knew how. For
example, to the widow of the man who loses
his life in a big mine the State makes the
munificent allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. To
the widow of the man who loses his life in a
small mine it makes no allowance at all. Is
there any reason for leaving it at that’ The
special responsibilities of N. S. Wales are big
and numerous enough without politicians
making additions to them as a cheap method
of attracting votes by securing momentary
reputation for benevolence.
Effective Protection—Enforced by the
Hun.
The moment extra-high duties are levied the
importer foams at the mouth, various people
wail moanfully about the iniquity of taxing
things that are not and cannot be produced
here, and Freetraders generally split the
firmament with lamentations over the folly
of highly-paid Australians expecting to com-
pete with cheap foreign labor, the impossi-
bility of successfully manufacturing with
such a small local market to supply, the
villainy of encouraging trusts and combines
by prohibitive duties, and so forth. Let us
see what the war has taught us in this
matter. The goods which we got chiefly
from Germany in the past included surgical
instruments and carbolic acid —articles on
which monumental duties would have been
levied if Andrew Fisher and vVilliam
Hughes had carried out their election
promises. They did nothing of the sort.
Neither did Joseph Cook, who made almost
similar promises and had an equal oppor-
tunity in 1913. But in August, 1914, Bill
of Berlin set about forcing the world to
use his surgical instruments at whatever
price he liked to charge, and a little later
the British navy restricted their use to a
small part of Europe. That is to say, by
December, 1914, Australia could get io
more scientific or surgical instruments from
the Huns, and precious few from England or
America, while carbolic acid was as scarce
as German ships on the high seas. The
prohibitive tariff was in full swing! And
nobody moaned —it wasn’t any use. Instead,
the Melbourne firm of Felton, Grimwade
and Co. set about supplying the demand as
speedily as possible. It took time, brains
and energy, but all were available; and
to-day Felton, Grimwade and Co. are utilis-
ing costly machinery and skilled workmen
in filling orders for these goods from all
parts of the Commonwealth and Maoriland.
The wages paid for this interesting work are
high, but they remain in the country; and
that is the most important thing of all. The
firm is also manufacturing much-needed car-
bolic acid and naphthaline from local tar.
The prohibitive tariff is still in working
order and will continue until the Hun has
quit the trenches and got back to the factory ;
after that he will dump his cheap goods here
again (through some neutral nation, if
necessary) and smash up the Melbourne fac-
tory and any others that may then exist,
unless Protective duties running if necessary
up to 500 per cent, replace the existing
“free” or “20 per cent. ad. val.”
Maoriland Converts War Profits into
Debt for the Kid.
Maoriland got thoroughly ashamed of its
Big Cadge a few weeks ago, and its Ministry
set about finding out what sort of war loan
the country could provide for itself. It
had collected £10,000,000 when The Bulle-
tin last heard the total mentioned and was
then, struggling for more. The story of
the Dominion’s borrowing, whether abroad
or at home, makes shameful reading.
Maoriland has been making enormous profits
out of the Empire’s disaster. In spite of
this and the obvious fact that war profits
should have been appropriated to the last
shilling for war purposes, the Ministry pro-
ceeded to borrow with both hands from
harassed John Bull, while Ward blithered
concerning “the necessity for building up a
strong position” and talked bunkum about
“keeping the rate of interest down.” Finally
—quite likely on a hint from J. Bull —it
resolved on this local loan, and the
net result of it all is that £10,000,000 of
mostly war profit has been converted
into permanent debt free of income tax.
The Government has not only handed on to
the citizen of to-day and to-morrow and the
day after a foreign blister of £12,000,000,
but has fastened upon him this local debt
of £10,000,000, and hopes to fasten on him
more of it later on. It is all a beautiful
illustration of how posterity can be taken
down before it arrives on the scene.
Firstfruits of Six O’Clock Closing.
The police report on the effect of six
o’clock closing in N. S. Wales suggests that
the situation is a bit mixed. Fewer arrests for
drunkenness is the bright feature of the
various district statements; but as this star
item is bracketed with the general observa-
tion that there is more sly-grog selling and
likely to be still more in the future, some
of its rays are dimmed. As it is per-
fectly plain that the sly-groggery for sheer
self-preservation must keep its drunks out
of sight, the fact that the city streets don’t
reel with the efforts of glad but uncertain
boots is no proof of added sobriety. Also,
it must be noted that the sly-groggery itself
is not likely to stay near the main streets
in the centre of the town where the “Come
along now” of the arresting constable was
wont to be heard. The most interesting
feature of the present situation, however, is
the plea of James Marion, secretary of the
N.S.W. Anti-liquor Alliance, for more
police. Again and again the anti-liquor
people have yelled to the voting public that
the closing of the pubs would mean a reduc-
tion of the number of police; in fact, they
have not hesitated to put down the whole
cost of the upkeep of the police to the fact
that Bung continued to trade. Now with
the hotel bars closed during what were
formerly their chief business hours, the
same crowd comes forward and asks for
more police! In the face of another of their
favorite contentions that the police cannot
control the liquor traffic, what would be
the use of the new appointments? Any-
how, wasn’t the six o’clock closing to help
the war along? How is it going to help
the war if men who should be enlisting
to smash the' Kaiser must be employed to
assist in throttling the sly-grog business
which the early closing has created? As
far as the existing pubs are concerned, the
police inspector-general does them proud.
Not a sign of liquor has been found any-
where after hours. It looks as if Bung,
though beaten in tactics by his shifty oppo-
nents. is playing the game more cleanly
than they.
Fluff and liung do a three-rounds
Exhibition Spar.
“Chug” writes with a view to securing a fair
balance of things:—
Beer has been cut off after six o’clock, partly on
the ground of war economy, partly because it appears
in the view of some citizens to be an ally of the
Kaiser, partly because a bunch of would-be moral
reformers continue to make a loud noise. What
about the fluff-shops—the places where the women of
the nation squander cash, time, energy and the rudi-
ments of intellect? Is it a decent thing that the
beer should be limited while the idle rags still flaunt
themselves on every breeze? Let them fight it out.
Round I.
Every charge that can be brought against the pub
can be proved against the fluff-shop, while not one
argument which is urged in favor of Bung’s estab-
lishment can be employed as an excuse for Fluff’s
show. The pub induces comradeship and friendly
feeling; the other only provokes envy and hate.
The pub satisfies a natural craving; the fluff-shop
unnaturally destroys all feminine contentment. The
pub supplies a stimulant which makes the world
look rosy; the fluff-shop provides an irritant which
reveals the unsatisfactory condition of the purse and
the household allowance.
The first round goes on moral points to the pub.
Round 11.
Man must drink, but he can get along with moderate
discomfort on water alone; woman must dress, but
she is more comfortable and far nicer to look at in
simple attire, for the purchase of which two visits
per year to the shop would be sufficient. Man
becomes intoxicated and loses control of himself
through over-indulgence in liquor; women entirely
loses control of herself and becomes an hysterical
maniac when the glitter of a few odds and ends of
colored rags, beads, feathers, scrapings from the hides
of animals and other savage adornments are spread
before her eyes. Men squander money in liquor;
women squander a great deal more money in idle
endeavors after bad taste and ugliness.
Round 11., after some even fighting, ends decidedly
in favor of Bung.
Round 111.
If it is necessary to drink less in order to win the
war, it is equally necessary to economise in other
directions. The most direct way in which such
economy can be effected is by limiting the display
of useless goods, reducing the hours of useless busi-
ness and forbidding a fluff-shopkeeper to serve a
woman when she is mad.
(Here somebody enters a protest on behalf of
Fluff on the ground that the latter is already com-
pelled to close his place of insanity at six o’clock.
As an impartial referee, I dismiss the protest. Closing
his shop at that time merely congests the trains and
trams with unnecessary giggle and petticoat during
the very hours when men who have been working are
trying to get home to a dinner that isn’t ready. The
pubs are closed during the man’s hours of liberty
from toil. As the majority of women take care to
be free at all hours from toil, it follows that it is
during those hours that the fluff-shop should close.
Fight on!)
The pub sells a large quantity of imported spirits
and ales during the day; but after six its main busi-
ness was the sale of Australian beer. The fluff-shop
sells as much imported shoddy as it can at all hours,
and it blows and brags about the fact that its wares
are not Australian in a fashion to encourage the
belief that all fluff-shops are anti-Australian in spirit.
War calls for an equality of sacrifice. Men at the
bidding, mostly of women, have laid Bung on the
altar. In the face of that bitter and bleeding sacri-
fice, what ought to be done to the other fellow ?
I pause to allow the antimacassar to be thrown
in from the lace and lingerie corner.
The Arbitration Tangle.
The tangle that Australia has got into
through having two distinct authorities at
work on the job of fixing wages was exposed
in Adelaide the other day. The learned
Judge Jethro Brown had to decide what
was a living wage for the metropolitan area,
and was up against the hard fact that Jus-
tice Higgins, of the Federal Court, had fixed
11s. 4d. as the minimum for unskilled labor
at Port Pirie in the same State. Brown
knew it was a large pill to swallow, but he
gulped it down somehow and explained, with
regard to the contention that Justice Htg
gins’s standard must be taken: “I cannot
conceive any greater disservice I could do
the employees than to grant this claim.”
which, he went on to say. would shut up
half the factories in the State. As a matter
of cold fact, the so-called living wage isn’t
a Jiving wage at all; and the sooner Judges
leave oil trying to delude themselves that it
is the better. The cost of living is onlv
remotely concerned with the matter. What
Judges are concerned with is what the indus-
try can afford to pay. Justice Higgins
persuaded himself that the Broken Hill in-
dustry, which keeps Port Pirie going, could
to Pay 11s. 4d., and that was called
the living wage. But if the Broken Hill
industry were only half as prosperous his
Honor would no doubt have found it possible
to persuade himself that life could be very
well sustained for half a crown a day less.
The so-called living wage therefore isn’t a
fixed quantity ; and Judge Brown did the
sensible thing in declining to accept the find-
ing of even a High Court Judge as a prece-
dent. _ It was a misfortune that he had to
put his figure at 95.; but the establishment
of the principle that no general rule can be
applied makes it possible for some other
crowd at some other time to get 12s. 6d.
♦
“Exile” : The projected pleasure trip to
Kingomalleyland in search of efficiency for
Australian workmen is not likely to take
place. As one who has just been there I
declare that it shouldn’t, anyway. In every
large factory and warehouse time-clocks and
time-keepers and watchmen and shop-
walkers keep the workers going just the
same here as they do there. The rest of the
alleged efficiency of the U.S.A. consists of
the employment of more men trained to their
trade in technical schools. Here in Aus-
tralia we need more technical schools, and
then again more of them. If our Universities
dropped their habit of so poorly imitating
those two obsolete seats of learning, Oxford
and Cambridge, and shouldered their obvious
duty of linking up the State schools with
technical schools and the Universities, in a
very few years the Australian workman
would be not the equal but the superior of
the American. The root of the matter lies,
however, in the need for a proper Protective
tariff. We cannot expect to sret skilled work-
men, new industries, scientific research or
the right development of “our illimitable re-
sources” without the sort of Protective
tariff that the United States possess. The
Vic. Government New Industries Commis-
sion, the Federal Research Council, the
Efficiency Grand Tour —all are mere vanity
and vexation of spirit without a towering
tariff. Australia imports yearly £05,000,000
worth of goods which it is efficient enough to
mostly make for itself, and all the efficiency
of which human beings are capable is worth-
less and of no avail unless we start and do
things for ourselves and make things for our-
selves and stop sending abroad to ask in-
ferior people how to suck eggs and speed-up
our workers.
There is a deal of talk about new industries
for Australia. A Federal advisory council
is wandering at large getting evidence about
nothing in particular, and it has an
official abstractor and translator at
work in Melbourne copying bits out of
scientific publications. The impractical
Hughes talked in a large way of spend-
ing £500,000 per year on this “great
work.” Victoria also has a new industries
committee, but it seems likely to be afflicted
with the same vagueness and the vice of
looking through a telescope instead of get-
ting busy on the job-round the corner. New
industries are desirable, but it is more
urgent to make the old ones into real live
concerns. If Australia honestly sets to
work to develop as they ought to be
developed all the industries now struggling
on under the handicaps imposed on them in
the past by the Freetrader and the importer,
the Stinking-fish party and other obstruc-
tionists, she will have work enough for a
long time. There is a good field in one line
alone for a country that sends away 98$ per
cent, of the raw wool she grows and then
imports woollen manufactures to the amount
of millions per year. When we have
straightened that up it will be time to start
to boom the silk industry. Iron- and steel-
making and shipbuilding and other vital
industries are already right here, and the
thing for the nation to do is to put enough
brains, capital and muscle into them to make
them really adequate. Unfortunately, such
plain matter-of-fact business doesn’t appeal
to the alleged Protectionists who are afraid
of duties that will protect, or to the doc-
trinaires and faddists who think that the
present boom in the public feeling for Aus-
tralian industries and for scientific research
and development is specially designed by a
kind Providence to float their pet fads into
prominence.
1
“Oopabella” : There’s a hopeful sign now
and then that the people are getting a bit
sick of being driven in party blinkers. Two
years or so ago one Jenkins, sitting in the
Footscray Council as a Laborite, fell foul of
his league, partly for voting for the coun-
cil’s sitting representative on the Metrop.
Board of Works instead of for the league’s
nominee, a young and untried councillor.
For this, Jenkins was expelled from the
league, and became a pariah. This week he
had to face the electors for the first time
since his backsliding. The local league
cracked the whip vigorously. Members of
Parliament were imported into the cam-
paign, and Mavnr and councillors went on
the stump against the renegade. Jenkins
fought alone, but he fought willingly, and
Footscray was filled with wrath, crude
economics and threats of manhandling,
while the outcast was killed six nights a
week by the mouths of outraged standpat-
ters. And on polling day Footscray gave its
opinion of the party joss by whizzing Jen-
kins in by 7SG votes to 2G3!
“Coal Tar”: Re “Dyer” (B. 27/7/TG) and
his advocacy of Federal support for the pur-
pose of investigating Australian plants and
other material to ascertain their dye values.
Research on the lines he suggests might con-
tinue for years before sufficiently definite
results were obtained to justify a start with
the commercial preparation of the colors.
Meantime the close of the war would see the
German stuff on the market again. Practi-
cally all modern dyes are manufactured from
coal-tar derivatives. Australia possesses
plenty (even allowing for what is dumped
into the ocean U and also more than one
The Pacificist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peace is the dream of the Wise ;
Peace is the story of Heaven ;
Peace is the Key of the Skies,
Bartered for blood
And for tears
And for sighs!
But the blood that is shed
Is not mine!
And the tears are the tears of the fighting
man’s dam,
And the sighs are the sighs of his widow,
His orphans, his dear ones,
His hearts that have bled,
As he bled in the field.
Bat I, nobler far is my mission! For snugly
ensconced
J[o I lie on my cushions of ease and declare
That war is a sin and a curse and a snare,
That Satan himself hath begotten it here,
And that damned are the sword and the
shield and the spear
Although I am sheltered behind them
And owe them my freedom
To prattle and prose of war and its woes,
Of the Blessings of Peace they have bloodily
bred
And brought home to my door.
For I, though the blood of my mother should
run
And the babes of my hearthstone should
perish.
Would spurn at the spear and revile at the
gun
And crouch with the cur till the battle were
done,
Then take as my due what my neighbors
had won,
The Peace, sweet Peace that I love.
And Peace, like a slime, should lie thick on
my soul
And I would grow fat at the board and the
bowl.
I could lie in the pasture and chew the
sweet cud
Of the calm that was bought by the rivers
of blood
Of the brothers who bled for my Peace,
Of the boys w T ho lie dead for my Peace!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
From Plymouth Rock.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A. P. Gardiner (Massachusetts), in a speech in the
House of Representatives, denounced the Senate’s
retaliatory black-list legislation as a blow to sup-
port Germany’s ugly cause.
“You hypocrites,’’ he declared, “you claim you are
devoted to humanitv and despise commercialism.
Why do you pass amendments that will serve no pur-
pose except to stuff your sordid pockets with the
golden harvest of your fellow-men's misery.”— Cable.
Miles Standish spoke, his hand upon his
sword.
Ilis was no naltering to gain applause.
Lead bullets for the shiftv Indian horde —
He learned plain dealing fighting Freedom’s
cause.
The large stars dimmed, the world went on
its way,
Trick and finesse the far, clear hopes could
mock;
And yet, though tourist-worn, remained the
grey
Old sober bastion of Plymouth Rock.
Somewhere dwelt truth, for all the dollar’s
sheen,
For all the bray of noise and boast of mud.
In Massachusetts, whiskered, long and lean.
Drawled one who felt the throb of Pilgrim
blood.
He, of the race who first had slain a king
For treason to the royalty of Man,
Drove his straight furrow when the woods
were green,
And felt and hoped as when his task began.
Once in an age he rose. His trumpet blast
Shrilled from the brazen tube for worlds to
hear,
As, all the long, dull days behind him cast,
He stood erect, a freeman without fear.
Again he speaks. A Wilson with the pen
Or blatant Roosevelt is the large land’s
choice;
But from the State that long bred truth
and men
Sounds clear and high America’s own voice.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


GAELIC WHISKY.
We beg to announce that the Proprietors of this old Brand, viz., the
Craigellachie-Glenlivet Distillery Co., Limited, of Scotland, have voluntarily
liquidated their Company. The Assets thereof, including the above-named Distil-
lery, the Stocks of Whisky, Goodwill, Trade Marks, etc., have been acquired by
the Stirling Bonding Co.,'Limited (the original owners).
We are able to assure the supporters of
GAELIC WHISKY
that the continuance of the business IS BEING MAINTAINED UNDER
PRECISELY THE SAME DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT as heretofore,
and that the high standard of quality and the well-known characteristics of the
Brand will be continued without the slightest deviation.
Agents for N.S.W. i
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO. Ltd.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Offices Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. Q. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Newman’s
Sauce
“Better
than Either"
A Worcester Sauce of Fine Quality, not excelled
by the best Imported lines—costs less.
(iet a Bottle from the Grocer.
An Australian Triumph.
chemist who understands a good deal of the
business of working up the colors from the
crudes. That there are comparatively few
trade secrets may be recognised from the
fact that some reliable technical publications
give (1) laboratory methods of preparing
many of the dyes; (2) modifications of these
methods for their commercial production;
(3) information concerning the types of
plant in use. The only other requirements
for giving the industry a start are a Pro-
tective tariff and some enterprise.
+.
The Long Fight and the Hard Road.
One result of Roumania taking a hand in
the game of bash has been to again set the
tongue of the prophet on the wag. He had
a fairly good innings at the start and made
7402 guesses; but as the dreams broke down
one after another the prophets retired into
seclusion and nursed a bitter resentment
against the enemy until the situation began
to look more favorable for forecasts. These
are now being handed out at the rate of
several dozen per day, and vary from a tip
that the war will terminate in December of
next year to warnings that the end is to be
definitely in sight the day after to-morrow.
It all means—nothing. Of unmistakable
evidence that the struggle will be over
within a year there is not a trace. That the
Turk, the Bulgar and the Austrian will
have to be broken before the German is
finished with looks certain —and these per-
sons are still fighting. It is true, of course,
that against the Hun in Northern France
the armies of Britain and France are making
progress; but it is useless to pretend that up
to the present this represents the establish-
ment of any decisive military advantage.
The offensive, if sufficiently well backed,
may turn into a triumph for the allied arms
over a wide region. Or it may not —any
of a dozen things may get in the way. The
things still indisputable are that, before it
can turn into a triumph wide enough to
count, the cost will be heavy, and that to
put the German on his back the momentum
of the attacking armies must be maintained.
It is the side that is growing stronger actu-
ally and relatively that will decide the terms
of peace. Roumania’s entry upon the field
brings substantial assistance to the Allies
and changes to some extent the strategical
features of the campaign. But it is easy to
exaggerate both and to lose sight of the fact
that the cardinal objective of the Allies is
to bring the war to an end. It is to prevent
prolongation of the struggle and the hideous
wastage of fighting at less full strength
that every man and shell the Antr-s can com-
mand are urgently wanted. That is what the
Australian people—faced by their casualty
lists on the one side and their voluntary re-
cruiting figir-'S on the other —have to remem-
ber on October 28.
«
“Cukse o’ Moses” lines up:—
When does my turn come with the Censor-
ship? I'm not greedy, but, as a citizen of
Australia, with the same rights as every
other citizen, I want my fair share of any good
things that happen to be going. This Censorship
thing appears to be about the softest snap anybody
has had on this planet since people stopped being
owned like cattle and pigs; and I’m standing in the
line waiting my turn to use it. Of course, Australia
hasn’t authorised me to use it, but then it hasn’t
authorised anybody else, and, under the circum-
stances, it’s only fair that the thing should go round.
One citizen is as good as another; and I want to
do a lot of things with the easy confidence that the
press won’t be able to say anything about them—l
want the right to do any dared thing I please with-
out anybody making a remark. If one chap has it
we all ought to have it; and by making it general
for a week there would be no time lost. Look how
that would puzzle the enemy 1
. Holman in his financial statement to the
N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly included in his
estimated expenditure from loan votes a
trifle of £20,000 for the equipment of rail-
way refreshment rooms which are to be run
as a State concern. That is real high
finance. In time of war and while “financing
from hour to hour” the State’s credit i.s
pledged to buy cupt? and saucers, jam dishes
and cruets to be smashed by the man of
to-day and paid for by the kid of to-morrow.
The Defence Department wants another
50 doctors for the Front; and that adds
ripeness to the time when the Federal Gov-
ernment should do what the Government of
India did years ago—offer a prize for a
substitute-doctor: a medical manual con-
veying simple instructions for the diagnosis
and treatment of various ailments and
injuries. A distinguished man, Sir William
Moore, won the Indian prize, and his work
was duly printed and handed round. Done
in Australia, for Australian conditions,
such a work would prove a blessing to many
an Outback battler and his family. It would
have to be circulated, of course: it wouldn’t
do any good to anybody stacked up in a
corner of the Government Printing Office
with cobwebs on it —like, for instance, those
important volumes, issued by various Aus-
tralian Governments, on “What to Do till
tlie Bailiff Comes” and “Dry Profit-Sharing
in Victoria.”
Cynics are beginning to wonder whether
Brother Snowball, the representative Vic-
torian Orangeman, isn’t a conscious joke.
He utters silly little tales of li.C.
bigotry, etc., which are obviously bound to
be refuted. Thus his recent story, told to
the State Parliament, of how a small boy
Protestant suffered from sectarian animo-
sity at a Christian Brothers’ school, carried
an effective contradiction on the face of it.
It wouldn’t be fair to lawyer Snowball to
accuse him of being a simpleton in making
these easily-refuted statements. It seems
much more credible that he makes ’em as a
mere matter of Orange-lodge business in
the first place and to please the Catholics
in the second place. The fact that the
rabid foe of Holy Church is on friendly
terms with many of its people, seems to be
fully explained by the fact that in his
capacity of Orange-lodge politician he fixes
up sectarian Aunt Sallys for Holy. Church
to shy at.
“Stapleton’s” problem:—
My man is willing to join the ranks, and, though it
will pinch, I am perfectly willing to try to manage
on a diminished income while he does his hit at
the Front. But he has his problem, too. The
majority of people seem to regard the enlisted man
with a big family as a dodger, and the opinion is
often openly stated that he has trouble at home.
Were conscription in force the single men would
go first, then the married men without children,
and finally the fathers of families. Thus all men
and women would understand and accept the posi-
tion. 1 will therefore welcome conscription, as it
will most certainly untangle some of the puzzles
that vex me to-day. Meanwhile, my man is torn
between two conflicting duties —his duty to the
State as its defender; his duty to his family as its
supporter.
Boot purveyors in Victoria who trade in
footgear with brown-paper soles may soon
find the business as unhealthy for themselves
as it has always been for their victims. A
Government Bill just circulated in the Leg.
Council provides that any person who manu-
factures, sells, or exposes for sale boots or
shoes of which the soles do not consist
entirely of leather will be liable to a fine
of £2O unless the other materials are speci-
fied ou the outer surface The Bill also
provides that boots must be stamped with
the name or registered trade-mark of the
seller or the manufacturer. That “or” is
the only mistake. Australia badly wants
to get into its head the names of a few
standard makes —of boots as well as other
things—and the best way to get it done is
to compel the manufacturer to put his brand
on all his goods. If he isn’t compelled by
law to do it, a hundred great and small
retailers will make him put up their names,
and, though that may be a small advt. for
a pretentious retailer, it is ho good for Aus-
tialian industry.
Two items were knocked out of the N. S.
Wales programme last week- —the Early
Closing Bill in the Assembly failing on a
point of order that the leave to introduce
did not cover the Bill as introduced, while
the Workmen’s Compensation Bill got it
on the point in the Upper-cut House. These
failures, coming on the top of others, caused
the Opposition to ask derisively, “Who’s
your draughtsman?” But the Opposition
had little to crow about. Wade’s legislation
became notorious for the space that was left
for bullock teams to be driven through it;
and there is on the Statute Book an Act of
which Geo. Feed was the author, dealing
with the width of streets, which is inopera-
tive because no penalties were prescribed
for breaches.
Died in Adelaide, at S 2, R. K. Threlfall, a
patron of athletics, especially cycling, and
for nearly 40 years manager of the D. and
W. Murray clothing factory. In fact, he
claimed to have been the originator of the
system which makes most Adelaide importers
large manufacturers as well.
“Toki”: One Morrison, an engineer on the
Tongariro when she had her fatal argument
with Bull Rock, between Napier and Gis-
borne (M.L.). was part of the crew of the
Clan McTavisli which put up the good fight
against the Moewe. After that bit of excite-
ment he was chief greaser on a submarine-
hunter in the Channel and drew £7O prize
money before a submarine retaliated by
sinking the hunter. Then he thought he
would try a quieter life, and shipped on the
Tongariro. Two hours after scrambling
ashore from the wreck he had taken a job in
a foundry. You can’t sink a foundry.
Farrer, M.L.A., complained that the Vic-
torian railways charged just as much to
carry wheat from Leopold to Geelong—
seven miles —as to drag it to Melbourne, 40
miles further. The State has a heavy deficit,
and the railroads are not paying; naturally,
therefore, this disclosure of waste electrified
the House. Electrified it so much, in fact,
that it yawned, and nobody showed the
smallest subsequent interest in the state-
ment. To save a loss by stopping plain
waste is much too prosaic.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Florodora”
Criterion l { ° ma ?l ce
Palace R°y a } fe V;', oll ® rs
Tjvoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “High Jinks”
Hoyal “Too Many Cooks”
King’s “Peg o’ My Heart”
Princess’s “Peaches on the Beaches,” etc.
Tivoi.i Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
The Playhouse “Hedda Gabler”
The Gonsalez Opera Co. gave us “Un Ballo
in Maschera” at the Sydney Opera House
on Saturday night. It was a third-rate per-
formance with first-rate interludes. The
latter were supplied by the tuneful Cappelli,
baritone Scamuzzi, basso Cacialli and the
canary trills of Miss Visoni. Cappelli as
the beauteous Duke Riccardo, in love with
Amelia, was handicapped by the stage busi-
ness. This forced him too often into the
company of the soprano (Mrs. de Revers),
whose brassy top notes (double forte ) make
the atmosphere quiver. When Amelia’s
strident tones hit the rafters the good tenor
can only roll his eyes to Heaven and trust
to a kind Providence to send his words over
the footlights. Cacialli was a heavy vil-
“LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR ,” AT
SYDNEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Henry Ashton ( Belloni ) and Lucy Ashton
(Miss Gonsalez).
lain Tomaso, of admirable vocal quality.
As one Oscar, a merry page, Miss Visoni
scored another success. But it was to
Scamuzzi (secretary Renato, whose ’Melia
flirted her fan in the Duke’s ear) that the
highest honors of the evening fell. With
brilliant melody and fervid action he picked
up scenes that dragged. The house cheered
him to the echo, and lie deserved it.
Miss Russ was an unconvincing Sorceress
with an overworked tremolo, an obviously
acquired nose like an eaglet’s beak, and
clumsy drapery. As for the rest, the chorus
work was fair and the orchestra verb d
fiom bad to worse. For no good reason,
therefore, did the company drag conductor
Gonsalez on to the stage to bow to a
thimbleful of applause. This week’s qivck
changes give us “La Bohbme” and “Faust.”
# Sj: sS s?
If an Egyptian mummy sat up in its
coffin and started to mumble the bazaar
gossip of 2000 B.C. with dry, cracked lips,
the remarks wouldn’t sound more out-of-
date than the once-smart speeches of old
“Florodora” as they are now fluted again at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Florence Young, who
bounces through Lady Holyrood’s light-
weight job, seems to be quoting brightly
from the Bible instead of flinging out the
twinkling London repartee of 20 years ago
that Grace Palotta used to get laughs with.
Derek Hudson, in the spotless gear of the
stage tropics, isn’t as impressive as Brown-
low, and Reg Roberts is quite six months
too old for the boyish Captain Arthur
Donegal. Ethel Cadman makes a well-
dressed charity-fete Dolores without any
Spanish onions in the family. Phil Smith
(Tweedlepunch) scores his best hit with an
introduced oratorio burlesque. Leslie
Holland seems to regard his part of Cyrus
Gilfain without enthusiasm, refraining from
dancing in the second act where Hugh Ward
used to do his footlight shuffle. Minnie
Love chirps naturally as Angela Gilfain,
the millionaii’e’s beloved flapper daughter,
and Claude Bantock makes up well as
Leandro, the driver of beautiful chorus
slaves. “Florodora” —booked for 10 nights
and two matinges—ends a creditable quick-
change season of revivals that must have
meant a lot of hard work for all hands on
both sides of the footlights.
** * *
“Duncan McClure and the Poor Parson''
leave Sydney Royal after the show on
Saturday. Take it all in all, it’s been a
grand season. The crop went about 20
bushels of Commonwealth notes to the acre.
On Saturday Sydney Criterion will see
Edward Sheldon’s “Romance,” with Madge
Fabian and Frank Harvey in the leading
parts.
Musical Irving, who makes the ’cello sing
and dream with his left hand, is now in the
front trench at Sydney Tivoli. Violiniste
Zona Trador helps him to look after the
artistic side of the bill. Louis London, the
loud grandson of a dignified grandfather
called Standing Bear, roars when his num-
ber goes up, and O’Donnell and Blair pass
in a haze of falling tables and chairs. The
Artois acrobatic pair, Kelly and Fern and
the Dick Dorothy dancing trio are also
amongst those present.
The Strollers have hung out the “Last
Nights” sign at Sydney Palace. They move
out of there bn September 29, to make room
for the returning Allen Doone, who wants to
unload a drayload of shamrock sentiment
labelled “O’Shea, the Rogue.”
On the screen in Sydney this week: —
Hoyt’s: “Battle of Hearts,” a palatable Wm. Fox-
mixture of shipwreck, hate, revenge and self-sacrifice;
and the usual high-class comedy and topical titbits.
Lyceum: Three A 1 Triangle pictures—“ Honor
Thy Name,” “Little Meena’s Romance” and “His
Hereafter.”
Crystal Palace: “The Hand of Peril,” the film
of Arthur Stringer’s underworld thriller.
Lyric : Annette Kellerman as “Neptune’s Daughter.”
Empress: “The Closing Net,” a Pathe presentation
of a thrilling detective story.
>\( % ?!:
The opening section of the Melba matinee
show at Melbourne Majesty’s last Friday
included the only items that were not fami-
liarly frivolous. Firstly came an intensely
melodramatic sketch, written by Frank
Harvey and replete with good old theatrical
devices. “The China Treaty,” as it was
called, thrilled the audience’s mind even as
one disturbs the surface of a stagnant pond
by gently flicking it with a whip. Harvey,
purporting to be the Chinese Ambassador
in London, had the manner of Mr. Wu and
the method of Sweeney Tod, the Demon
Barber. Just previous to the outbreak of
the present war he w-as arranging to sign a
treaty with Germany, which he would seal
with a signet ring. The ring was indispens-
able to the fixing of the alliance; therefore
emissaries from various Great Powers were
sent to sneak into the Chow’s room and
steal the jewellery. The emissaries were in-
variably murdered by the slow and stately
Ambassador. They used to come in at the
door like diplomatic flies, whereupon he
“I PAGLIACCI,” AT SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSE.
Tonio (Seamazzi) arouses the jealousy of
Canto (Balboni).
would enter at the French window, like. a
Sw T eeney spider, and tempt them to drink
doped liquor. After which he would ring up
a myrmidon and bid him remove the body
of the foreign devil. Finally Lord Sydney
Stirling, from the British Foreign Office,
came to burgle the precious ring, but instead
of swallowing the fatal glass of wine he
spilt it on the floor when his host’s back


&
3 O OgRA
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
U. Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
ħ
Gream
► Of i
the liorlh
Whisky.
h
IgrAR/
ĥ
ħ
Taffeta Lounge Suits
ARE IDEAL FOR SUMMER DAYS
Taffeta is so light and cool that it makes an excellent
alternative to silk or crash for Summer wear, and is
considerably more distinctive. “No-Veste” Taffeta Suits
are made in the style illustrated from durable Taffeta
in new shades of Fawn and Silver Grey. We can
vouch for the quality of the material because it was
secured among early purchases last year.
READY TO WEAR 52/6
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Please state chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & C 0„ LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & '3ll GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
was turned, as heroes mostly do in melo-
drama, and accomplished his great stroke of
foreign policy by pretending to be dead.
The high-pitched absurdities of the situa-
tions seemed to enthral some of the audi-
ence. Stirling’s suggestion that the chemist
might come to Europe’s aid with a bottle of
germs, which would spread sleeping sickness
among the teeming millions of China’s popu-
lation, must have struck his spellbound
hearers as a brilliant idea. The rest of the
discussion on the Yellow Peril was at least
calculated to set stupid people thinking.
But they missed the humor of this astound-
ing problem playlet. The joke lay in the
fact that it had escaped the Censor.
“ FLORODORA ,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY'S.
Tweedlepunch (Phil Smith ) and Leandro
(Claude Bantock).
Melba’s contribution was the last act of
“Faust,” with Fritz Hart conducting a some-
what noisy orchestra. She acted almost as
feelingly as she sang, and her pearl-coated
notes were truly beautiful. When Mar-
guerite recalled, in her delirium, the words
she sang to Faust at her first meeting with
that seductive young man, the quality of
Melba’s voice was supei*b as ever. She
didn’t put it to the strain of outreaching a
high tenor in the finale, for the name-part
was adequately filled by Goossens, the mel-
lifluous Belgian baritone, whilst Fred Collier
was sufficiently ai-tistie and Satanic as the
evil basso from Down Under. A dozen
recalls and a pile of floral tributes com-
pleted a notable performance.
* * *
“The Girl in the Taxi,” which is running
at Melbourne Majesty’s until Friday, has
been improved by changes from the original
cast. Dorothy Brunton as Suzanne fully
accounts for the enthusiasm of the three
giddy males who state that they love her to
a man, and Greig does all that Rawlins did
without making the grimaces that marred
the other man’s performance. Transparent
hypoci’isy needs no facial emphasis, and
Greig is just a fat, jolly person in a jolly,
fat part. Cecil Bradley is a likeable
daughter', and Madge Elliott lopks very like
the sort of young matron who js open to be
adopted by a strange uncle provided that
he takes her to supper in room No. 6. Four
members of the co. —Workman, Fisher,
Maguire and Ethel Morrison —have always
been at their best in this gay piece of im-
propriety. Also the acrobatic waiter is an
intermittent shriek of glee, and even Paul
Plunket presents a gladsome appearance in
a sky-blue tunic with bright red coverings
elsewhere. The co. lapses into “High Jinks”
again on Saturday. The following Satur-
day the Royal Comics return, and “The
Geisha” will be awakened from a long Mel-
bourne sleep.
:Jc i*: sj: jfi
Fuller’s ’Murkan burlesque company broke
out in “Peaches on the Beaches” and “Lost
in a Harem” at Melbourne Princess’s on
Saturday night. These things are no more
entertaining than their predecessors, but
they are more liberally decorated by the
chorus, which makes some fresh disclosui’es of
its eharms. The costumes and their con-
tents are practically all that the perform-
ance has to offei% the work of the principals
amounting chiefly to interruption between
the various courses of girl. Murray Simons
and Lew Dunbar, the head comedians, are
no less noisy than before, and keep up a
tremendous play of gags that are mostly
revered classics in vaudeville circles. Simons
has improved somewhat since the opening
night, but Dunbar once or twice forgets
himself—and this paper can’t altogether
blame him. It tries to forget him itself.
The parts of a cullud lady and a stewardess
are thoi’oughly well filled by the sumptuous
Miss Mason; and Miss Moore is again a
petite young person who appears to be
growing out of her clothes. Miss Eileen
Barnsley warbles several songs passably;
but none of the others are of any signxii-
cance, barring the brilliant Le Groh trio of
acrobats.
v v '»*
Seeing that the Follies will be back at
Melbourne Tivoli on Saturday the writer
will not dwell at length on all his sad
memories of the latest accessions to the
bill. Prince and Deery, described as novel
singers and talkers, are an echo of innumer-
able mixed pairs from America, the lady
being apt to ask questions and the man
being bound to laugh loudest at the most
banal of his • own jests. If these sei’io-
chronic couples hadn’t a splendid audacity
and an ample experience of the vaudeville
game they couldn’t pass for entertainers.
The Parshleys are simply music makers
who obtain melody by the device of rubbing
the rims of glass vessels or beating blocks
of wood with little drumsticks. Their
specialty is glittering attire, especially on
the part of Mrs. P., who skips about her
business as though she were too happy for
words. But her high spirits are not in-
fectious, alas!
* * *
“Peg” will be a bhroth of a gyurl at
Melbourne King’s for only one more week.
Then Bert Bailey l’etuims w'ith “On Our
Selection.”
jji
The existing silence at Melbourne Royal
will be broken on Saturday by “Too Many
Cooks.”
At The Playhouse (Melb.) the Repei'tory
Co. will produce “Hedda Gabler” next
Satui'day (16th). Melbourne has seen
nothing of Ibsen’s play since massive Nance
O’Neil misrepresented the heroine long
years ago. Eily Malyon will impei’sonate
the mischievous young woman on this occa-
sion, and Gregan McMahon, Norman Cai’ter,
Mrs. Fowler and Miss Lilian Pilchard will
figure in Hedda’s social circle.
At Hoyt’s big Melbourne house this week
Olga Petrova is vividly demonstrating that
many an experienced married woman can
be caught by a flow of hot .words over a
champagne suppei\ The film is entitled
“Playing with Fii-e,” and two or three pas-
sionate scenes are required to show the
extent of the conflagration. The other Hoyt
feature, “A Wife’s Sacrifice,” is more a
matter for the police than the fire brigade.
A couple of young swindlers figure iix the
production, and their manner of deluding a
blue-blooded family reveals once more the
infinite credulity of the nobly born.
❖* * *
“Under Fire,” now at Adelaide Royal,
would be more convincing if somebody liad
taken the trouble to translate it out of
Uncle Sam’s language into ours. In real
life, an English girl, confessing to a harm-
less fib, would no more di’eam of saying “I
lied” than would a British Admiral use
“Surely” (which in England is always either
argumentative or pleading) in its American
sense of hearty agreement. But the thrills
of the play bring the scent of the gun-
powder acx-oss the footlights. Julius Knight
revels in the part of the Irish hero, and
Lizette Parkes wastes no time worrying over
the fact that she has wedded a man who has
a wife already, but grabs such happiness as is
coming to her. Thei’e is more American
talk at the King’s. Harry Bui’gess and
Gus Franks provide most of the fun ; Lola
Hunt is a large, handsome and capable
comedian; and Lydia Carne gives a life-
like imitation of Daisy Jerome. It is funny
—and a bit pathetic, too—to hear a very-
American visitor declai’e, in a song obvi-
ously written for another four-syllabled con-
tinent, his love for Australia, and add the
gallant but reckless mis-statement, “There’s
a hundred million more like me.” But Jack
Kearns restores the Australian element all
right. At the' Tivoli Cyril Mackay is a
number of dashing heroes, and Fitzlierbert
a similar number of loathsome villains,
while capable Redgrave plays anything that
comes handy. Wish Wynne has gone from
the Majestic. Dan Thomas is here, also the
wire-dancing Maximo. Wirths’ Circus and
Dampier’s Dandies have been and gone,
Jack Y.M.C.A. Virgo’s lectures are crowded,
and pictures are everywhere.
Myers, the Jewish Minister of Supplies
for Maoriland, required many ephahs of
oats lately, and demonstrated his firm dis-
belief in the Gentile politician’s contempt
for business methods. In the fii-st year of
the war Massey did the job by announcing
that the Government wanted oats and hoped
no one would be so unpatriotic as to boost
the price. Of course the price rose like a Fok-
ker. When his turn came Myers kept quiet and
employed a firm of brokers to get offers at
reasonable prices all over the country. When
delivery was called for pillars of cloud rose
all over Canterbury’s dusty roads as the
dealers tore about getting supplies before
cocky dropped to what was doing and put
the pi'ice up.
AT POVERTY POINT.
FOUL DEEDS WHILE YOU WAIT.
[For The Bulletin.]
I murdered a man in cold, cold blood.
He fell ’neath the night-owl’s lonely post.
I wiped the gore from the shining steel,
And 1 cursed him there and I cursed his ghost.
I swore my hate to the wide-eyed owl,
’Neath a lonely tree in a lonely spot;
1 laughed aloud as my victim fell,
And I buried his bones in an unknown plot.
Ah! he was a man, and I loved him well ;
But remorse springs not from the foul blood-
stain ;
For after the show we will sup in wine,
And to-morrow I’ll murder him, over again.
maoriland. LESLIE R. FREEMAN.
Balboni, of the Gonsalez Opera Co., was
ordered from Italy something in this way:
“Send suitable tenor first boat.” No reply
was received from the agent or the selected
tenor himself, and the co. went about its
job not knowing w'liether the reinforcement
was coming or not. Then one morning a
stranger was discovered waiting about the
Princess’s Theatre, Melbourne, with that
look of hopeful expectancy everyone wears
when lost amid strange surroundings. Some-
body at last approached him. “Pardon.
Anything I can do for you?” The stranger
nodded gratefully. “I’m the new' tenor from
Italy,” lie said simply. What a deep, un-
natural silence descends when the trumpet-
ing press-agent is absent!
Steele Rudd is going to make some more
“Selection” money out of “Duncan McClure
and the Poor Parson.” The second-last week
of the long Sydney Royal run turned more
money into the Bert Bailey treasury than
any other week of the season.
Herbert Bentley, who swaggered as
General Augerau in “A Royal Divorce,”
tried for a part in the Great Drama last
week.
Will Rayner, of Fullers’, who had a record
run on that circuit, was amongst those who
got into khaki last week. He was a star
singer of patriotic songs at Sydney recruit-
ing meetings.
“Harrison O.” : An unnecessary first act
spoils whatever chance Somerset Maugham
had of making his heroine in “The Land of
Promise” convincing. From Act II onward
the play deals with the taming of a sharp-
tongued, pig-headed young woman who mar-
ries a small Canadian farmer in a hasty
temper and seems to imagine that obstinacy
after the ceremony will redeem the stupidity
that caused her to rush into it. The lady
is not satisfactorily tamed until she has (a)
smashed the household crockery, (b) slapped
“PEG O’ MY HEART,”
AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
“Jerry.”
Cecil Brooking
her lord’s face, (c) kicked his shins, (d)
bitten his hand, and (e) attempted to shoot
him. The trouble is that this charming
creature has been introduced to us in the
superfluous first act as a mild, lady-like,
sweet-tempered companion to a shrewish old
maid for whom she has acted as guardian
angel, with patience and gentleness which is
repeatedly insisted upon, for 10 years. This
first act does nothing except explain that the
reason why the heroine goes to Canada is
that the death of her taskmistress has left
her without a job. When in Act II w'e find
the same heroine quarrelling with her
brother’s wife and marrying “beneath her”
in a fit of temper, we at once cease to believe
in the sweetly-patient worm of the previous
10 years. “Consistency, thou art a fool!”
is the attitude of the dramatist determined
to make a thin story last hours (with the
help of three long intervals) or perish in
the attempt.
“De Oriel”: All touring showmen know
the old hall caretaker who, after a meagre
house, explains that the show should have
been on a moonlight night, last sale day,
next Saturday—in fact, any date but the
one selected. The hallkeeper at Nyah, on
the Murray, has an original excuse.
“Always come to Nyah in summer,” he
says; “the people across the river have no
bridge, so they have to swim, and the water’s
too cold in the winter.”
“Kaniva” : “Teddy” Royce, the comedian
who first appeared in Melbourne in 18S6 as
Captain Medway in “Turned Up,” is still
on the active list. His great success was
Blueskin in “Little Jack Sheppard.” Others
were Robert Brough (Jonathan Wild), Wil-
lie Warde (Kneebone), Emma Temple and
Fanny Robina (Jack). Royce was a very
clever dancer, and had been for years a
noted harlequin in English pantomime. His
first appearance was at Covent Garden in
“Un Ballo,” in 1860. Later, he became one
of the famous Gaiety four, the others being
Edward Terry, Nellie Farren and Kate
Vaughan. Hale Hamilton recently had a
letter from the old man, who is still vigorous.
“Ancient Prompter”: Pinero’s name is
soon to be on a musical-comedy bill in Lon-
don. A writer long connected with that
loose and careless class of show, having
arrived at the amazing conclusion that a
good “story” would help matters, has
arranged with the dramatist to adapt some
of his early farces for musical purposes. He
has picked a good one to start with in “The
Magistrate,” the bright and snappy laugh-
provoker done here in the happy Brough
days.
“0.K.”: The story of “The Girl on the
Film,” which deals with the lady-killing
loveliness of one Max Daly, a cinema actor,
is not so absurd as it looks when Workman
plays the hero. No stage actor I ever saw
was half so beautiful as the lover in a pic-
ture-play called “Maria Rosa” shown by the
J. C. Williamson Films. The picture is a
remarkable specimen of cinema art as regards
photography, acting and bellowdramatic
interest. Geraldine Farrar is starred in the
name part, but the most striking feature of
the performance is Wallace Reid as the
lover, convicted of the murder he didn’t com-
mit. He has a tall, slim, graceful figure,
and the handsome, clean-cut face that girls
describe as godlike. Kyrle Bellew, at his
prettiest, w r as an insignificant divinity com-
pared with Wallace Reid on the film. More-
over, he is a master of facial expression, like
all the other men in this particular picture
play. Actors, to my way of thinking, can
control their faces better than actresses
when they are silently mumming before the
camera. The women sometimes betray their
sense of the ridiculous when they are trying
to look lovesick or scared, or a whispered
word tempts them to almost laugh.
. Wallaroo (S.A.), where the copper comes
from, has gone into the moving-picture busi-
ness. The town council has bought its own
machine, given notice to a showman who
had occupied the Town Hall, and declined all
offers for either hiring or buying out.
“Barnstormer”: One night in the early
’9o’s I was at Toole’s Theatre, London,
when Johnny was playing “lei on parle
Francais” for the 4004th time. With us in
the stalls was Mrs. Keeley. It was the
old dancer’s 90th birthday, but when we left
the theatre she danced a pas-seul for us in
the foyer, and then went off gaily to supper
with Henry Irving and Johnny.
“ Jwosp” : The Bluebird Photoplay makers
seem fond of Australians. Rupert Julian,
who used to fall downstairs in “The Breed
of the Treshams,” is with them as director
and star actor; his wife, Australian Elsie
Wilson, appears as a star under his direc-
tion ; Syd Bracy is with the same team, and
Louise Lovely (the sugary film-name of
Louise Carbasse-Welch) is on the pay-roll
as a beauty actress.
“Legirons”: The imitation cat was swung
in hearty fashion before the Australian
camera that filmed the local “Mutiny of the
Bounty.” The pigtailed seamen who came
aft to give Captain Bligh a whiff of the
rotten food are shown triced up presently to
the rigging with ugly-looking greasepaint
marks on their bare backs, and the brawny
flagellator stands off and belts them terribly
with “tails” of curtain plush or twisted butter
muslin. But, whatever the cat’s made of, the
job is realistic enough to any person with two-
penn’orth of imagination. The British Navy
only threw' the cat overboard after 1877,
though the Duke of Clarence (afterwards
William IV.) had moaned as Lord High
Admiral over the Fleet’s quarterly return of
punishments as early as 1827. But the old
seadogs of that time reckoned they couldn’t
get along without it, so the torture went on
for another half-century.
(Continued on page SJf.)


David Jones’ Box Calf Boots, 21/- Pr.
FOR. BUSINESS OR HOLIDAY WEAR.
BOX CALF LACE BOOTS, in black or
tan, medium welted soles, fashionable
round toes, drill lined. Two fittings to
each size, in sizes 5 to 10. Made from
superior-quality box calf, tough and
durable, yet flexible and easy fitting. A
sound value 21/-pr.
\VB PAY CARRIAGE.
ĥ
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opo. G-P 0.,
SYDNEY—
Mary Pickford races up a few more rungs
of the ladder of success in her latest picture,
“The Foundling.” now flickering across the
screens at the principal Sydney Theatres.
Mary is still as curly as ever. The same
old dimples remain and the big tears come
just as naturally as of yore. You will like
“The Foundling” even better than “Madame
Butterfly,” because it is a picture more like
the sort that first made this little artiste a
film celebrity.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS
WINES
INCONSIDERATE.
ETHEL: “Is it true your engagement is off?"
MAUD: “Yes, the brute!”
ETHEL: “But I thought you broke it off!”
MAUD: “So I did; and he didn't even make
a fuss about it.”
The Adelaide Licensing Bench seems to be
coming round to The Bulletin’s opinion,
expressed six months ago, that there is no
room in Australia for a club calling itself
“Allgemeiner Deutscher Verein.” The mili-
tary authorities had then shut it up, but it
wants its license kept in a state of suspended
animation, urging that the members are
nearly all Australian-born. The Bench looked
through the rules, found that “only persons
conversant with the German language shall
be eligible to become active members,” that
“all discussions and business transactions at
meetings shall be conducted in the German
language,” that the club’s object in existence
is “the support and encouragement of Ger-
man sociability,” and that the Hunnish name
of it “shall not be altered.” Ncsbit, Presi-
dent of the Court, naturally thought the
whole matter “shrieked for inquiry” ; and the
club’s lawyer, who had not come prepared to
argue about its right to exist, was invited to
attend in three weeks and do so.
The Wilson Government had hardly landed
on its seat in Perth when it gave orders to
hang up the Esperance Bailway, which was
to wander from the harborless port for about
100 miles and finish in the air. The
old Esperance railway agitation of the
gold-boom days aimed to connect up with
Ivalgoorlie via Norseman; but vested inter-
ests in Perth were always strong enough
to squash the project. During recent
years the section of line which the Scaddan
Government put under way last year aas
been pleaded for as an agricultural-develop-
ment proposition. Labor Ministers and
others not entirely disinterested persons
sketched the lands to be served as bubbling
with milk and honey and other vegetables.
Among the evidence they didn't thrust promi-
nently under the nose of Parliament was a
report by Government Analyst Mann showing
a very high percentage of salt in the soil.
The new Ministers, diving into the mountain-
ous Esperance railway file, brought this salt
to the surface and decided to hang up the
costly construction work until the question
of salinity is disposed of one way or another.
Taxpayers who can’t see where the money for
essentials is to come from applaud Wilson,
but the howl from the handful of Esperance
settlers is heartrending. They can’t eke out
an existence by taking in each other’s wash-
ing, because water is so dreadfully scarce in
the district.
* •» * *
From an Australian girl with the Red
Cross in France: —
I told you before of the South Australian boy who
had been so terribly blown about that three amputa-
tions were necessary. He lost one leg, two hands
and an ear, and had three body wounds. We thought
his case utterly hopeless, but now it is certain he
will live. The vitality of the bush-bred Australian
is amazing. All the doctors marvel at it. After a
long coma this lad opened his eyes on Sunday morn-
ing. He looked about him, he looked at me, and
when he smiled I bent down. He could only whisper,
and he said: “Honor bright, nurse, what’s left of
me ?”
* * * •
L. V. Biggs, chief of staff of the Age,
keeps pegging away at his task of persuad-
ing Cold Tea that the rational solution of
the temperance “problem” is the elimina-
tion of private profit from “the trade.” He
has given notice that when the Anglican
General Sjmod meets in Sydney next month
he will move, —
That the policy known as “Disinterested Manage-
ment” deserves the sympathetic study of the Church
throughout Australia as a valuable plank in a con-
structive programme of permanent temperance
reform.
The idea is supposed to have originated in
Gothenburg, Sweden, where the pubs are
run by municipal officials; but Biggs bases
his arguments chiefly on the experience of
two companies in England—the Home
Counties Publichouse Trust and the Re-
formed Public House Association —which
have been applying the principle to pub
ownership for some years. Houses owned
by the cos. are managed by salaried officials,
who make nothing out of the sale of booze,
but are allowed a liberal commission on
light refreshments and meals. Wherever
possible, the “reformed pubs” have gardens;
and every house has a coffee room, apart
from the bar, with good pictures on its walls
instead of whisky advts., and cards, chess
and other games. The dividends are limited
to 5 per cent. Surplus profits, which have
been considerable each year, are put into
improvements and the purchase of new
houses. After studying the results, London
County Council has approved of the idea,
and though its policy is not to permit the
renewal of licenses on properties owned by
it in resumed areas, it has made an excep-
tion in favor of “disinterested management”
houses. Earl Grey, one-time G.-G. of Can-
ada, is on the Board of one of the cos., and
when in Australia a couple of years ago he
gave the glad hand to Biggs and his scheme.
* * * *
A Billjim artillery man tells us what it
sounds like: —
If all the tramears in Sydney bumped down George-
street ringing their bells; if all the ferries in the
Harbor sang a Hymn of Hate on their sirens; if
all the motor-ears in the State sounded their'multi-
tudinous horns; if all the members of the seven
Parliaments of Australia shrieked at the 14 Speakers
and the 14 Speakers simultaneously thundered
“Silence!” it would be an inaudible whisper com-
pared with even a lull in the artillery preparation
when the Great Push began.
“Hassan’s” view of it:—
There used to be a saying in Arabia: “See
Damascus and die.” I have seen the Royal Art
Society’s Show, and nearly died. The same old
works without intention, the same array of favored
pupils’ works, the same base imitators of better men.
Yet this Society gets £4OO a year from the public
coffers for the encouragement of Art. Art should
be encouraged—but not the Royal Art Society’s
kind. Art does not consist in mere unintelligent
paint-splashing. It should express . \
Watkins portrait, a Lister landscape, a Rubbo war-
picture express nothing but very average minds, and
express them in a very indifferent technique. This
is not the sort of Art to pay £4OO a year for when
there are so many better ways of spending the
SOCIALLY AU FAIT.
“I ain’t sure whether I'll recognise them, or not. I ain’t seen what their washin’s like
yet.”
“Oh, they’re orl right. They does for some of the best families in Tooruk.”
money. £4OO a year will keep two soldiers’ families
in comfort. That, just now, seems more important
than the expression of the souls of a dozen respect-
able and average men. The average soul is a very
useful article, no doubt, in a grocer’s shop or a
brewery or a bank, but it is no use at all in
poetry or art or music. And in the Art Society’s
exhibition I see at least half a dozen good grocers
spoiled.
* * * *
“Fortieth”: There’s a boy here, a West-
ralian. He has lost two limbs and an eye,
but has fallen in love with Nellie , and
proposes to her every time she goes near
his bed. She shakes her head at him, but
he persists. The other day he showed her
an article in a paper in which it was
pointed out that after the war there would
be very many fewer marriageable men than
women in Australia. “There you are,
nurse,” he said, “two-thirds of a man for
each woman. D—n it all, old girl, you
don’t want more than your share, do you?”
For the severalth time within the last
half-dozen years the N. S. Wales unions
are making an effort to secure a closer alli-
ance. Past effort was barren of immediate
results, although it showed the organisa-
tions that they really desired the thing
they were seeking. The Labor Council was,
to a great extent, the stumbling block. This
Council, which has grown to unwieldy size,
has become a glorified debating society, use-
ful, no doubt, as a body capable of influenc-
ing the unions individually, but lacking real
power. But it is jealous of its glory, and is
aided in the resistance of new ideas by the
ill-feeling between city and country union-
ists. At last a congress of unions took mat-
ters in its own hands and formed a Labor
Federation; and though, owing to the hos-
tility of the outraged Labor Council this
Federation was buried subsequently, the
One Big Union idea grew all the time,
and half a dozen amalgamations have
occurred during the past year. These amal-
gamations fit in with the Federation idea,
which foreshadows the grouping of kindred
industries under councils, from which group-
councils a central executive with real
executive power will be appointed. The
latest conference commenced operations re-
cently; and although it may be some time
before it can secure the endorsement of the
conferring unions, it seems as if the labor
organisations of N. S. Wales have a pro-
spect of being brought into one solid body
very shortly.
“H. 0.”: In consequence of a recently-
issued Navy order that officers must be in
uniform when on, going to, or coming from
duty, many officials holding honorary rank
are getting their first decent opportunity to
air the glad haberdashery which they
acquired at great expense at the time of
their appointment. The costliness of a naval
officer’s kit is one of the bad jokes that this
young democracy lias to put up with. A
full kit for a commissioned officer costs
from £9O to £lOO, and consists of “Full,”
“Ball,” “Frock Coat with epaulettes,”
A SLUR ON THEIR GOOD NAME.
LUCY: “ Do wnright insulting, I calls that.
You'd think they was all a lot of larri-
kins. An' if some of 'em teas in the push
this ain't a time to throw it up at ’em.”
“Frock Coat.’’ “Undress,” “Mess Dress,”
“Mess Undress,” “White Undress,” “White
Mess Dress” and “White Mess Undress” —
ir. all 10 changes! Is the efficiency of the
Navy really enhanced by its officers being
compelled to support wardrobes like beauty
actresses?
NO CENSORSHIP OF PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas Deacon Jones who wrestled well in prayer.
The small bush Bethel groaned its sad applause,
The while his loud petitions filled the air,
Besieging Heaven from grim and whiskered jaws,
lie prayed for Smith, prayed for his erring soul.
Begging for trimming of a lamp gone dim,
For mercy and for grace to make him whole—
But Smith declared the deacon slandered him.
A thousand little Bethels still are loud,
While kneeling grocers square accounts in prayer,
But under spires select a gentler crowd
Kneel before God with better things to wear;
And there the variegated parson pleads
In rounded periods our mortal case,
Shaping his thought to match the forms and creeds
With all the freedom of the holy place.
No dull restraints are placed upon his tongue,
No censorship his earnestness controls;
His eager words on high are hotly flung
Of peace and war and statecraft, deaths and souls.
While, all without, the press in fetters groans,
The free, far citadel of Heaven is stormed
With speech that eddies round its gates and thrones,
And God is excellently well informed.
So are the people sitting in the pews.
None sleep, but all have open ears to hear,
While with his outstretched hands his holy views
On all events the parson-man makes clear.
Give me a pulpit or an altar rail,
A whitewashed surplice or geneva gown!
In loftiest prayer my soul would fain prevail,
Wrestle with might and get the Censor down.
N.S.W,
CURSE O’ MOSES.


—now’s the
time for
a PANAMA
II e r e’s a splendid li at.
Beautifully light and bleached
pure White. Smart shapes.
Brim, 2,2 J and 2£ inches.
PRICE 25/- POST FREE
; 'V-jJ
STATE YOUR SIZE AND SEND FOR ONE
OF THESE ON APPROVAL. IT MAY BE
RETURNED AND MONEY REFUNDED IF
UNSUITABLE.
YOU INCUR NO OBLIGATION.
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.
TOOWOOMBA.
BRISBANE.
TOWNSVILLE.
HOTEL SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MODERN HOTEL AT A MODERATE TARIFF.
240 BEDROOMS—HOT AND COLD WATER IN EACH.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
CYRIL EDWARDS, Manager.
“O. I. llatem": The world is very busy
on a big job now, but the wowser still finds
time to mind other people’s business. In
Sydney a week or so back a number of men
and women whose special job it is to attend
to other folks’ morals got together and told
one another how a reputable firm of book-
sellers had “a secret chamber” full of the
most terrible literature. The announcement
was sorrowfully made that an emissary of
the Council of Ten had tip-toed all around
the establishment without finding the
Chamber of Horrors. But hope on, dear
brethren! Perhaps the suspected book-
sellers will one day see the absurdity of
keeping a secret chamber that is too secret
to be discoverable and start to advertise the
abomination. Till then — sli-h !
* * * *
The Stawell (Vic.) Shire Council wasn’t
going to be caught napping, so when it fixed
the salary of the local president in Septem-
ber, 1915, it gave him £5 extra to be spent in
a maffick if peace were declared during his
year of office. As he didn’t get a chance to
maf he has left the egg in the nest ready
for the next man.
* * * *
“T.C.”: The gentle, homely geniality of
the French people is as soothing balm to the
soul of the Australian who has seen nothing
but the rough and tough side of life on
Gallipoli and in Egypt since he left his
home down South many months ago. Pro-
bably it explains why, to the surprise of
many, Billjim has become serious since he
arrived here in France. Despite all the rot he
has imbibed from the novel and the stage on
the subject, the modesty and sisterly kindli-
ness of the French women have lured him
into a relationship of respect and homely
familiarity. This is the more remarkable
on account of the ruling war circumstances
which have depleted the country of men and
sadly shaken up the traditions of ante-
bellum days. Yet not to a fraction of the
extent that I found it in London. In the
Big Smoke Mrs. Grundy has been mysteri-
ously “done-for” and I fear it will be a
difficult job after the war to recover her
remains for a resurrection. On the train
journey through, which I still remember
with pleasure, we mixed with both peasantry
and town-dwellers, and everywhere met with
the same gentle kindness. Old men and
women rose from their tasks to greet us.
Some old chaps, more earnest than others,
straightened to military attention, and
with their faces flushed and their eyes
glistening, gave us a military salute that
THE HIDDEN LIGHT.
There is a serious shortage of dress stuffs.
—Fashion note.
N ELLE: “Won't it be dreadful if dress stuffs
run out!"
BELLE: “Oh, I don’t know, dear. It just
depends on what taste you’ve had in—in
other things."
hold more meaning than any ever given on
a parade ground. On one station a young
officer in the delicate light grey uniform of
his regiment had just arrived on leave by
another train. A little white-haired woman
in black was leaning with her face buried
against his chest. His eyes only betrayed
his emotion; while his disengaged arm
gripped round the shoulder of a grizzled
man standing close to him with unnaturally
severe erectness. But as the lad kissed him
on each cheek, the unseeing eye and the
wooden expression on the old fellow re-
vealed the emotion he thought he was
concealing. The promiscuous kissing of
the old couple, which at one time would
have roused us coarser-grained Anglo-
Saxons to scorn, now seemed quite natural;
and the Billjims about me watched the
incident with looks of solemn understanding
in their eyes.
WHAFFOR?
GENT. ONE (who has just received a 20-guinea fee): “Well, your case looks about as
black as it can. I don't know what I can do for you. What do you intend to say?"
CELESTIAL CLIENT (in amaze): “Me no savee ; no savee! Me payem you, you tellee lie.”
“Billy T.”: Rain held a Melbourne crowd
under the verandah at the corner of Collins
and Swanston streets, and presently the
regard of all was focussed on a
small, hard, tanned man with an
atmosphere of the bush about him,
who, inspired by a pint or two,
was voicing his need. “I wanta
wife!” he said. “That’s all tha’s
marrer with me—l wanta wife.
Bin’ livin’ alone too long, I have.
Man’s li’ble to get rats, livin’ too
long alone —-hundreds of rats. I
wanta wife. I ain’t p’tickler ’bout
looks or age ’slong as she’s a good
sort. Anybody on? What d’yeli
say?” He looked about him. He
turned himself round for inspec-
tion. The crowd was laughing and
passing gibes, hut I noticed one
thin-faced woman of about 38 look-
ing upon the advertiser with seri-
ous interest. Her lips were set,
but her eyes were wide open, and
there was a grey tinge in her face.
I was certain she would if she
dared. “Look me over,” said the
man. “I don’t mind. I ain’t big,
but I’m honest, and I don’ drink
—well, I don’ drink, as a rule. I
wanta wife.” At this stage a
threatening motor accident drew
attention from the earnest seeker,
and presently, when the people
turned to him again he was drifting towards
a Carlton tram. The thin-faced woman was
bv his elbow. A big cheer followed them.
Somebody whistled the Wedding March.
* * * *
“Y.Z.” : Don the Dago unbosomed himself.
“I lika not mooch the early close-it. Nota
goot for peezness. Make-a the poor man
mooch disgust. I sella the oyst, the feesh by
the saloon. All ees goot, so clean, so fresh,
the oyst, the cray, the grill-a, the flounder
feesh. I make-a mon’ —twent’ the pound-a
one-a wick. Ver’ nice. I smile-a with my-
self. Then the biga the damfool make-a the
early close-it. Poof! Beezness eeseape.
Netting is to do. The oyst go ver’ seek wait-
ing for the-a custom. He do not-a come.
The flounder feesh iss on-a my hand teel I
no more can bear. The early close-it keel
me so dead. I don’ know for why the teetot’
not-a eat feesh. The teetot’ fellah despise
the ovst. He weel not-a be seen walking
with the cray. One-a drink, two-a drink,
tree-a-drink maka the fellah tink well of the
grill flounder feesh. The early close-it make-a
the gran’ sorrow in the belly. I sell not-a
three cray dis-a wick. The whole-a town
eet steenk with the oyst that ees not eat
that neffah weel be eat. Early close-it -
Gar-r! I not-a care who win-a the w*ar.’
“St. Jimmy”: I travelled
to-day with three flappers
just loose from one of the
most expensive ladies’ col-
leges in Melbourne. One
spoke in such a mumble as
to be unpleasant and difficult
to listen to ■ a second dis-
torted her vowel sounds exe-
crably, and the third pitched
her voice in an absurdly
high key. It set me won-
dering whether the culture
of the voice receives any
attention at our secondary
schools, where so many fal-
lals are charged for. Pupils
may with advantage forget
many things they learn at
school; but their speech will
be an evidence for or against
them as long as they live.
In this connection it should
be somebody’s business to
take note of the number of
quacks who profess to teach
“voice production” without
the faintest knowledge of
the vocal organs and with a
similar equipment concern-
ing phonics.
Nothing worries them. An Anzac from
Sydney who had lost a wing heal’d whilst in
a London hospital that an old mate was
just pulling round after leaving his right leg
and half his left arm in the operating
theatre. He hobbled out to the garden to
find the other victim, and stood grinning
before him. “Strike me, Bill!” he chuckled.
“I thought I was lopped a bit; but you
look like a Moreton Bay fig after the Sydney
Council has done with it!”
Nesbit, P.M., in Adelaide, has done a
logical but unusual thing in sending a
Flossie to gaol for two months. The
law of 8. Aus. says that she shall not
exist. Whether it is a wise law or
not, whether it Ims an unforeseen and
widespread bad effect on the community, is
an open point. There the law is, and Nesbit
takes the ground that he is on the Bench
to see it enforced. If the lady persists in
existing, it is usual for the Crown to become
aware of her now and then and inflict a fine.
Nesbit says that this is liable to be taken as
a sort of license-fee. So he prescribes gaol.
It remains to be seen whether he will be
consistent, and do the same thing for Isaac
McShortodds, who is, in South Aus., just as
illegal as Flossie.
* * * _ *
“Aladal”: When the Sydney spoilers
start filling up Farm Cove, as the Minister
for Works proposes, could they not cut
away Lady Macquarie’s Chair and continue
the underground railway, as a surface sys-
tem,. to Garden Island? This could then
be flattened and used as the headquarters
of ferry services to Neutral Bay, Cremorne,
Mosman, Manly and Watson’s Bay. Also
it would supply the Government with a
splendid site for a State pub. Norton Grif-
fiths should be communicated with at once.
They might do something at 15 per cent.
* * * *
“Podargus” : A new and sinister aspect of
the venereal disease question was brought
under my notice recently by a pal home on
leave from one of the Westralian training
camps. A few fools who have contracted
gonorrhoea, and perhaps worse, seem to
regard the possession of complaints of this
nature as a badge of soldierhood, and work
horrible practical “jokes” on clean-living
mates, the sole object being the infection
of the hapless victims "with one or other of
the curses. An introduction to a firing
squad would not be exaggerated treatment
for these dangerous brutes.
“Seven Bells”: Launched in 1854, a
month or two before the Edina, which still
thrashes up and down Port Phillip Bay, the
old iron screw-steamer Stormbird wss until
she recently foundered on the Wanganui
bar (M.L.) the oldest ocean-going steamer
in the world. She first spread her wings at
Whiteinch, Lancashire, and came to Aus-
tralia under canvas and the command of
Daniel McCallum, father of the Rev. Alex-
ander McCallum, of Melbourne Wesley
Church Central Mission. She was a sweet
thing of 217 tons, and before ending her
days in Maoriland waters traded between
Melbourne and the Gippsland ports. Her
skipper lived long at Williamstown, where
lie was marine surveyor and adjuster of
compasses. In those days the Wesley
Church spire was one of the points from
which bearings were taken, and continued
as such till the Exhibition dome was built.
HANDICAPPED.
“I’m surprised you never married."
“My dear, the trouble teas this: when I was
twenty the girls I wanted were either
too old or I didn't know them. And
when I was fifty they were either too
young or—they knew me.”
A CHANT OF ENVY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Sylvia has golden hair
(Golden since a year or two) :
She is slim and very fair
Standing in her 4.0 shoe.
And her lips are baby red
(Shade that's 10/6 a pot) ;
Clearly put and briefly said,
She is all that I am not.
Sylvia is good to squeeze,
Greedy is her mouth to kiss,
She is lightsome to the knees,
All the men agree to this.
In my eyes brown devils gleam,
Laugh and dance —they’ve got the pull:
Fair as some drunk poet’s dream,
Sylvia is deadly dull.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


It is hardly to be expected that at the end of the war our returned
warriors will be satisfied to take their sport in the gentle manner of
the past. Probably innovations will be introduced in keeping with the
fire-eating Anzac spirit. For instance, football wjth fixed bayonets.
A cost pie ot yards of barbed wire
'would make wrestling much more
interesting.
The old growl about £low cricket
would be finally silenced- by the
- introduction of a French 75 as bowler.
You can bet all previous
records will be broken in
the high-jump line.
Maybe the Marquis
o’ Queensberry rules
may be revised so as to
permit the use of liquid
fire or weeping gas.
The old-fashioned steeplechase is
doomed Here is the Grand Smash-
tonal—mines instead of fences,
AFTER-WAR SPORT.


The Goshen Elat Bowling Club. The green
is well grassed, but the club’s method of mowing
and top-dressing is somewhat primitive.
•lnd the drive comes off.
Finishing a match by /
candle-light.
i mniwiiii.ii ji int: i ,
Likewise in a rain-storm.
And yet they call bowls
an old man’s game!
“Thank ’Eaven I was born
bandy, or I’d ’a got a
broken leg."
THE SKIPPER. “That’s our wood. Bill. Just crack an egg
on it and it’ll be the shot."
BILL: “D’ye mean a real hen’s egg, or one ol them china nest-
eggs?"
AN EMERGENCY.
AETEII THE MATCH.
Members of visiting team (to
tired bowler) : “You must be
up, Jfhn; here comes our
tram."
A POST-MORTEM.
THE SKIPPER: “On the last bead we
was twenty-one all. They was
layin’ seven. I came up with
one of them big drawrin’ woods
of mine and"
“And drew the shot, I suppose?’ in-
terjected an excited auditor.
Nti, I didn’t. | knocked in another
o? their wootis.' and they scored
SKIPPER: “Be up to that
wood, Sam, fore hand."
SAM (3rd man): “I see it better
on the back ’and. Jack."
SKIP.: “No. you'll do damage ll
you come on that hand"’
•SAM- “But. them’s all out woods
and if I touch any of ’em"
etc., etc.
HIS OPPONENT: "Aw. whj can’t
you do as you're told? Go on.
Let’s finish the game. It’s
nearly six o'clock and the bai
will close in five minutes.'
A (jUICKENED
CONSCIENCE.
ms ghostly
COMFORTER
“You say you have something on your mind that troubles you, well*
on* with it, come!”
MORIBUND BOWLER: “Well, ’ere goes. It’s this. I once put a
thruppence with a'hole in it into the club’s poker-machine an
drawed a royal flush/* And heaving a sigh of ineffable relic *
turned his face to the wall and passed peacefully away!
THE RELIGION OF BOWLS.—(WITH SOME THUMBNAIL NOTES ON ITS RITUAL, &c.)


h
Chaving
<2)tick
leva?;
For an
Ideal Shave
m -
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
ĥ
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
paring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer’s.
WJ!' % s=a =
i. wn
.
PM. The KUJ
063 0>
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS 00 ROU
LEWIS&WEIITTY MAKERS
DOCTORS
RECOMMEND
(SILBEY’S
PRY (SIN
For Kidney Complaints
and Rheumatism.
Obtainable Everywhere in Quarts 8 Pints.
TUCKER & CO., SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Pish to all this talk about Hughes’s habit
of eating one stale biscuit and glass of water
for breakfast, a mashed peanut and table-
spoonful of whey for lunch and a dish of
pap for dinner! When he is thinking how
to get out of his latest tight corner he eats
lightly, of course. So does every other sen-
sible person. But life isn’t all brain-work
for Billy, and he can overtake a grilled whit-
ing or a bit of fillet with the best of ’em.
But because the public, doesn’t see him
sloshing mixed drinks and chasing the Ched-
dar around the table for another scoop, he
is generally accused of doing his work on
a diet which couldn’t sustain a chicken.
GEORGE TALLIS AND HUGH J. WARD
(managing directors of J. G. Williamson
Ltd.).
Arthur Seaforth Blackburn, one of five
Australians who have just won the V.C. in
France, was born 25 years ago at Woodville,
near Adelaide, where his father, now
deceased, was Anglican vicar. Dad was a
scientist as well as a parson, and was the
leading Australian authority on beetles.
Young Blackburn was schooled at St. Peter’s,
and is a barrister. He was in the Landing
as a private, went right through the cam-
paign without wounds or sickness, and won
his star before the evacuation. His three
brothers —one of them a topnotch Sydney
physician—are also in khaki.
H. J. Driscoll, just dead in Adelaide,
was a prosaic collector of rates by day;
but in the evenings his thoughts would go
back to early years up-country, and then
he wrote novels, calling himself “Giles
Seagrim.” He had not much sense of
style; but the books got a value from the
first-hand knowledge they held. “Jack
Halliday, Stockman” was about the best of
them.
September birthdays: H. E. Ivater,
M. chairman of the Colonial Sugar Co.,
75, Colonel Charles (Plevna) Ryan, 63,
and Capt. R. 11. M. Collins (High Commis-
sioner’s office), 64, on 20th; Bishop Dunne
(Broken Hill), 70 on 21st; poet James
Hebblethwaite, 59 on 22nd; “Big Ben”
Rounsevell, several times S. Aus. Treasurer,
74 on 23rd ; Billy Hughes, 52 on 25th ; Dr.
Strong (founder of Australian Church,
Melb.j, 72, and poetess Mrs. Mary Hannay
Foott, 70, on 26th; Chief Justice Murray
(S.A.), 53 on 27th; ex-Senator Pulsford,
72, artist Rupert Bunny, 52, and Donald
Mackinnon, M.L.A. (Vic.), 57, on 29th.
An illustration of the British shipowner's
patriotism and liberality. A wealthy Ran-
goon merchant gave to the British Govern-
ment as his contribution to the war funds
the free use of two 5000-ton steamers for
“as long as the war lasts.” One of these
vessels recently arrived at Sydney laden
with sick and wounded Australian soldiers.
The patriotic British shipowner’s name is
Lim Chin Tsong.
Lieut. Bill Denny, the only member of
the S. Aus. Parliament on service, writes
that it is a great life. “We are having
delightful weather, and everyone is in
great heart. Personally I am feeling very
fit. Taking it all in all, I never felt better.
The life, the surroundings, the climate are
delightful. But tell the friends of soldiers
that later on the need for comforts will be
much greater than in Egypt, where the
climate was very mild. Woollen goods will
be most acceptable.”
To relieve Hughes, who apparently is
going to stick to the job of Attorney General,
R. R. Garran is to be Solicitor-General.
Garran. who took an active though non-
political part in the creation of the
Commonwealth, is the finest type of public
servant, and has done excellent work as per-
manent head of the Attorney-General’s
Department. He is the son of Dr. Garran,
a former editor of the S. M. Herald.
Old ’Enry Parkes was a great leg-puller.
When he lived at Parramatta he was sighted
one morning by the station-master just as the
s.m. was about to give the “right away” sig-
nal to a hissing train. The great old man
was then on the overhead bridge, so the
official wirelessed the driver to wait. Parkes
saw it all out of the corner of his eye and
deliberately slowed up. As he came down
the steps, heads of fretting suburbanites
pepped out of the carriage windows all along
the train and the railway men fidgeted. But
Parkes didn’t hurry. And just as they were
expecting him to step aboard and release the
waiting universe he turned away to the
bookstall, bought a paper—and started up
the steps again!
Died suddenly, at 61, Ernest Hanson, one
of the best known Treasury Inspectors in
N. S. Wales. For many years in the Audit
Dept.—from junior to Deputy-Auditor-Gen-
eral—he was a familiar figure in every town
in N. S. Wales where a public servant jingles
public money. His most famous “case” was
in connection with the Charity Department,
which he pulled down about the ears of the
Public Service Board. As a result Hanson
became Director of Charities. But only for
a time; the job did not suit his temperament.
V. G. Childe, who was given a travelling
scholarship for classics by Sydney Uni. on
finishing his B.A. course with honors a year
or two ago, has just been having his head
patted by 1 (xford examiners. A thesis on
"The Influence of Indo-Europeans in
Greece” has been rewarded by permission to
tack “B. Litt.” after his name. Childe tried
to get a free passage to Europe in a khaki
suit, but was turned down for physical rea-
sons. Ilis father, now retired, looked after
the Anglican collection-plate for many years
at St. Thomas’s, North Sydney.
Alfred Pfaff, convicted in Melbourne of
attempting to import German goods, had
been trading for 11 years as the Australian
Produce Co. Prior to the war his chief
Australian producer, seemingly, was Arthur
ITermsdorf, of Leipzig. After the war he
did business with the same old Hermsdorf
per Erdman and Hethe.v, of Amsterdam,
who put him into communication with a
Swedish firm, which “Swedish” firm wrote
to him from Leipzig. It all gives Australia
a hint of the trouble it is going to have
if it attempts to shut out “enemy” goods
after the war while letting other" people’s
goods in.
Lionel Curtis, founder and editor of the
Round Table, who is talking Imperial Fed-
eration in Australia, was born in England 45
years ago, and after getting an M.A. degree
at Oxford went to S’Africa in the late ’9o’s.
He was in a Natal regiment during the un-
pleasantness with Oom Paul, and while the
Transvaal was under martial law he was
given the job of organising a municipal
system for Jo’burg. Later on he had
a hand in framing the Constitution of
the S’African Union, and is now out
J. S. WATKINS, artist, putting a new
pupil through.
to save the Empiah from disintegration.
He sees only two goals to which events
can _ carry the ball. If citizens of Aus-
tralia, Canada and the other “dominions” are
to be dragged into war and back again to
peace without any control over Ministers at
London, he prophesies that sooner or later a
war will come in which one or other of the
“dominions” will declare its neutrality—
and that will mean its independence and the
collapse of the Empire. To avoid this, he
and his Round Table “groups” advocate a
system by which Great Britain is to become
a “dominion,” with a Ministry confined to
the conduct of purely domestic affairs, Im-
perial matters being managed by Imperial
Ministers answerable to voters in Australia,
Maoriland and elsewhere as well as those in
the Cold Country.
Fine, human old George Dibbs could do
blacksmithing as well as electioneering, and
had a forge at his Emu Plains home. This
forge overlooked the Nepean River, on which
he kept a boat. One day a boy and girl came
wandering by. and the boy looked longingly
at the idle skiff. The blacksmith was the
only person visible, and to him the lover
applied: “I say, d’you know who owns that
boat?” The smith stopped work to reply:
“Belongs to Mr. Dibbs,” nodding in the direc-
tion of the house. “Um! D’you think he’ll
want it this afternoon?” The smith looked
thoughtful. “You might chance it,” he said,
and resumed work. The boy nodded his
thanks, led his girl down to the boat and
was away two happy hours. When he came
back and tied up he climbed to the forge,
winked at the blacksmith and passed him
half a crown. Dibbs winked to himself and
went on working.
The Melbourne Museum lias missed a
chance of buying a sword which once be-
longed to Deeming, the gentleman who made
a hobby of burying wives under the hearth-
stone. After Deeming was hanged the
blade was sold with his other goods and
chattels and was bought by George Verdon.
who satisfied himself that it had once
belonged to a Crusader. At present it
belongs to Fritz Wallach. the German who
had the law suit over his internment. This
fact spoiled the sale, for when the trustees
heard that the thing was German-owned
they dropped the idea of buying it for fear
Hughes should set his bloodhounds on them.
The theological students of Trinity Col-
lege, Melbourne, reckon that spiritual
weapons are not much needed just now. and
all but three of them have gone to the Front.
Of the 941 men students enrolled at the
college since its foundation over 300 are
either dead or past military age and over
100 are_in parsons’ rig. Just about half the
rest, 270 altogether, have gone on active
service.
“T. 0.1.”: At least three Australian
cricketers who met the first All England
XI in 1862, are still about —George Moore,
of Maitland, at 96; Fowler, aged between
70 and 80; and Thomas Whiteside, of
Hobart, who is about 80.
Lately-dead Viscountess Caroline Sher-
brooke, the second wife of “Bobby” Lowe,
who was in Australian politics from 1842 to
1850, and then became British Chancellor
of the Exchequer, left an estate in N. S.
Wales valued at £22,874. According to
popular fiction she was the daughter of
Mrs. Jamieson, who was murdered by John
Knatchbuil in 1844. But there is no truth
in that story. In the “Life” of Robert Lowe,
Miss Jamieson is described by Lowe himself
as having married a respectable mechanic,
a furnished freehold house being the wed-
ding gift of the Lowes.
A corporal just reported missing at the
Front carried a lot of Australian history
under his cap. His name is Hassall Mars-
den Harding Kendall. Rowland Hassall
Y\'as one of the first missionaries to Tahiti,
and settled in Sydney when driven off the
islands by the natives. Samuel Marsden
(whose daughter married a Hassall) was
the second Anglican parson in N. S. Wales,
and the first missionary to the Maoris.
Kendall was one of three who accompanied
Marsden to Maoriland as missionary, school-
master and magistrate. He was the grand-
father of poet Henry Kendall.
One of the plans adopted by Captain Cook
for reminding Black Brother of his visit to
Adventure Bay (Tas.) in 1777 was the dis-
tribution of medals. The Tasmanian black-
fellow is only a distant memory now, but
one of his medals was turned up the
day near Variety Bay, a dozen miles north
of Cook’s landing place. It was found
several inches below the surface at what
used to be an old camping ground. Black
Brother, finding that keeping it didn’t im-
prove it as tucker, apparently made sure and
buried the uncanny thing.
Some humorist in the rag trade lately
worked off a wicked one on a Sydney poli-
tical warehouseman who never carried a big
stock of German goods even in the days
before the war. A small advertisement
appeared in a confiding morning paper
announcing that David Topfloor, Ltd., wdliicl
that day distribute free to all comets its
stocks of enemy-made goods bought before
the war. Tramloads of women were caught
by the unauthorised bait and David Top-
floor, Ltd., had a busy morning explaining
that it knew nothing about the dashed ad.
and would not refund tran; fares. You can
catch some greedy old fowls any time with
a handful of chaff.
MARSHALL LYLE, of Melbourne, who,
twenty years after, is still “the lawyer
who defended Deeming.”
“D.F.”: The name of the bushranger who
used to be Martin Cash’s side-kicker ,(B.
7/9/T6) was Laurence Ivavanagh. In his
autobiog. Cash, who freely admits that he
himself was a high-souled and chivalrous
party, laments that Ivavanagh and his other
mate, Jones, sometimes forgot to behave
like perfect gentlemen. They were both
justly punished by coming to a sudden end.
while Martin, after a spell at Norfolk
Island, lived to a green old age on his little
farm and died in the odor of currant-bun
respectability.
TO THE MOTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie was the handsome casket of the dreams
That bloom in youth, when earth is all in spring,
And Life, where Hope with splendid promise gleams,
Puts hues of gold and green on everything.
And now he sleeps. Though hearts may be as lead,
Let us not say those dreams of ours are dead !
Ilis rounded limbs, his young heart, seemed to hold
Tender remembrance of a hundred hours —-
Reminders sweet of ecstasies of old,
Treasured away like those dear, holy flow’rs !
That lovers’ fingers pluck for loving gifts
To anchor memory before it drifts.
The rounded limbs are still, the young joy slain
That laughed to live as sunshine in the day.
Yet he has lived ; and he shall live again—
When time the hungry ache shall sweep away
With which the heart in present loss is pained—
Joyous and care-free, happy and unstained!
See how the grass grows freshly from the ground
That pain has turned to bury all the past!
The dew of sorrow falls; and, then, around,
The rays of suns of newer days are cast;
And lo! the grass of hopes renewed shows green,
And flow'rs of memory make sweet the scene.
The child has lived. And, as the heartache goes
The thought of his brief days in sunshine spent,
Those fair, fond memories the heart still knows
Of former dreams, will give the breast content.
The child still lives, though strange his silence
seems,
He is the casket of those longer dreams!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


rii
i m
w : u:m
: H
m
ip
\.v:
0*
; -
It
'
. :
■ #>' y
; ‘Z' i!
ff|i||l|i|g»»
i: : ' • .:•
IBK
a
w:
■
ip
■
? Hi
Mi
' ;
Warn
• : ■
MB
---^1
W : :.
m
.:' ‘ '
I
■
■
111
Hi
HHH
H
* ■
■
■- i
■
111
■ ™
H
iilll
I
r E . ‘‘r : SA,
|§wl|s fH . -v , l--* S
&:?. <!■ ‘ ' •
' • 5 ikl H
I
Wm&sm
i
H
l*i
■
m mm
■
n
■
1 msm
§1 BMBiH 9
■sil
mm
i
; ■ I
■HI
\ «r
■ H
1
■
K
.." •
iiisiii^^fii
s s'
m
111
.
•HE WW
g 1
■
111
i g
li 1
...
lIP
••:' |
.
■ I"
Kfl
■ ■
m.
i
I K 1
;
■■ -
,' - _ jf
- Austral Tailoring for Spring -
As might be expected, the dominating influence of the World War is reflected in the products of Man’s more peaceful endeavo. s.
Kven the Clothes he wears tone with the subdued sentiments which nowadays prevail, and in this respect the New Season’s
Suitings now being shown are remarkable for the absence of striking patterns or any tendency to freakishness in
coloring, but evidence a totally new character of smartness which most men will heartily appreciate.
Our Customers in Town are cordially invited to
call in and inspect these New Goods at their
convenience.
Customers who live at a distance may judge from
patterns, selected with discriminating taste and
sent post free to any address on request.
Austral Sac Suits to Orders 63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/, 90/-, 95/-, 100/-, 105/, 113/-, 120/-
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Gowing' Bros. Ltd.,
4»4 to 490 George Street,
3 to 17 Royal Arcade. r UIIvT/ '
ioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
New Branch Shoo at 304 Gecrge Street (near Hunter Street).


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobei
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Producers of:
SOFT IMG LEAD (B.H.P. Brand),
GRA X ULATED ASSAY LEAD,
LITHARGE, ANTIMOXTAL LEAD,
LINO METAL, SPELTER, ZINC
REST. REFINED SILVER (Bar
and Granulated), etc.
Purchasers on a specially
favorable Tariff of:
SILICIOUS ORES. containing
Lead, Silver or Gold.
CALAMINE ORES (High grade).
Also Buyers of:
SLAGS, LEAD & ZINC DROSSES,
etc.
All enquiries to be addressed to the Secretary.
The Largest Producers of Soft Lead in the World.
h
THE PDBIIG TRUSTEE
STATE GUARANTEE.
Acts as Attorney, Agent,
Administrator,
Executor and Trustee.
For full particulars apply Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N. S. Wales Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund. —This splendid insurance fund,
established in 1901, is maintained by a
fortnightly contribution of ninepence which
is deducted by the employer from the fort-
nightly wages of all employees, supple-
mented by an equal amount paid half by
the State and half by the employers. The
ninepence deducted from wages—tip 4i!w r
makes- the contribution compulsory—r|
paid to local committees, which apply* it as.
far as it will go towards meeting claims ;
and it is part of the committee’s duty to
make inquiries and protect the fund from
malingerers. The employers’ and State
contributions are paid to a central execu-
tive, which invests this money and the local
committees’ surpluses, and exercises a
general supervision. This central fund is
of course also drawn upon when the local
contributions do not meet the claims.
Pensions are paid to miners incapacitated
through accident; in case of fatal accident
the widow gets a funeral benefit and a
pension, and the dependent children are
supported.
For the first few years there was of
course a large excess of revenue over
expenditure, and in spite of the earnest
warnings of this paper numerous conces-
sions were made to beneficiaries. That
they were too great has now been suggested
b\ the fact that though in two years revenue
has shrunk just upon 20 p.c.. the outgoings
have actually increased. This shows how
figures have moved :
Revenue. Exnenditure.
1901-5 .. £41,956 £14,564
1906-10 . . 58,661 34,137
1911 . . 63,856 43,390
1912 . . 67,005 45.838
1913 . . 71,900 52,041
1914 .. 66,804 55,426
1915 . . 57,936 52,947
The shrinkage of revenue last' year was due
partly to numerous strikes; but though
that meant a reduction of new accidents it
didn’t reduce the pension and other out-
'goings on account of previous accidents.
This supplies a reason for maintaining a
large reserve: it is extremely likely that
mining—apart from coal-mining—in N. S.
\\ ales may he seriously depressed after the
war, and that means smaller contributions,
Without a corresponding reduction in the
outgoings. On the latter point it is signi-
ficant that, though the average number of
employees in 1913 was 31.272 and in 1915
only 23,477. yet the outgoings for 1915
were actually greater than for 1913. Take
the case of the Great Cobar groun of mines,
for example. Last year they couldn’t make
a do of it and were mostly shut down. Yet,
though miners’ contributions were in conse-
quence reduced to £55, former accidents
called for an expenditure totalling £lO5O.
And two or three Wyalong mines, which
are now right out of the list of contributors,
are still costing about £5OO a year.
The chief of the present benefits are. in
case of fatal accident. 10s. per week to the
widow or other dependant and ss. to each
child under 14. with £l2 funeral allowance;
in case of disablement. 15s. per week, with
ss. per child under 14. John Trivett, the
Government actuary, has lately made a
valuation of the Fund’s liabilities, and,
though it has £330,000 lent to the Govern-
ment at 34 to 44 p.c. and £0289 in cash,
the officer reports :
(1) That as at April 30, 1915, the assets of the
fund were practically just suffhient to provide the
liabilities in respect of beneficiaries then existing.
(2) That the increase in the proportional number
of casualties, together with the increase in benefits,
makes it necessary to increase the contributions of
miners by 20 p.c., or (say) Id. per week, to provide
the benefits in respect of future accidents.
In other words, the politician intruded, and
another insurance or superannuation fund
has just started on the road to bankruptcy.
Whether it will be pulled up hard and
turned the right way remains to be seen.
Mostly owing to the fact that the law
has in the matter of this fund enjoined com-
pulsory service and that the contributions
are collected without cost by the employers,
and partly owing to the fact that the Mines
Department stands some of the office
charges, the expense rate is astonishingly
low. Last year the receipts were £57.93(5.
and outgoings exclusive of allowances to
beneficiaries totalled £lOl7 =£2 15s. lOd.
p.c. of income. The Bulletin knows no
other large fund, covering so wide an area,
which is so cheaply administered.
The Ball Ait at Banking Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.) :
Written Added .
Oft'Pre- to Re- - Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1908. .£4079 7p.c.=£2975 £llO4 £75,039
June, 1909.. 4103 7 „ ~ 2975 £5OO 6.28 75,667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 74 „ ~ 3187 973 76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 74 „ ~ 3187 1017 77,657
Dec,,’ 1910.. 4176 ' 74 „ IfSlB7 989 78,646
June, 1911.. 4276 74 „ ~3187. - 1089 79,735
Dec., 1911.. 4356 74 „„ 3187 1169 80,904
June, 1912.. 4395 74 „ ~ 3187 1208 82,112
Dec., 1912.. 4481 8 „ ~ 3400 1081 83,193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 „ ~ 3400 1049 84,242
Dec., 1913.. 4480 8 ~ ~3400 1080 85,322
June, 1914.. 4514 8 „ ~3400 1114 86,436
Dec., 1914.. 4534 8 ~ ~3400 1134 87,570
.June, 1915.. 4566 8 „ ~3400 1166 88,736
Dec., 1915.. 4581 9 „ ~3825 756 89,492
June, 1916.. 4611 9 „ ~3825 786 90,278
Things have improved steadily in tiie last
few years, and war hasn’t stopped the
giess. But that is quite natural. Very
nearly half of the funds which the bank
, handles belong to itself: that is to say, on
3)alf of its risks the 1 p.c. or so extra
jpwhich it is now getting is almost all
profit: the only set-oil is a bit of extra
iriCome tax and a few pounds more spent
i;n salaries, etc. Before paying the current
dividend the Ballarat Bank had £179,103 of
its- own and it owed £233,447. Or put it
this way: the bank owes £233,447 and has
£IO4,SOS of cash and liquid assets. Thus
it owes £125,639 for which it hasn’t cash
or liquid assets ; and it lias £307,742 worth
of other assets to meet that liability. So
the depositor who worries over a deposit
in this bank had better see a doctor about
his nerves.
The shareholder hasn’t got much to worry
about either; on the other hand, he pro-
bably hasn’t any golden time to look for-
ward to. The present certainly isn’t a
golden time even though the dividend is
9 p.c.; for the total profits don’t average
5J p.c. on what the shareholders are sup-
posed to own. A while ago a few share-
holders reckoned they could do better than
that with the money if they had it, and
they wanted the bank to sell out. It does
look a pretty wretched return, seeing that
the bank iiv-order to earn even that much
is taking the risk of investing about as
much of other people’s money as it has of
its ow T n; but this is quite a common com-
plaint among Australian banks. Take
Australia’s biggest bank, the Wales. It
doesn’t earn more than 7 p.c. on its capital
and reserves; and to do that much it has to
take the risk of handling over £50,000,000
of other people’s money, most of which it
has to invest, guaranteeing not only interest
but the full return of capital. When you
consider what profit a rag-store with a
decent goodwill makes on its capital. 7 p.c.
looks pretty miserable for a great bank
with an enormous goodwill. And one can’t
reasonably suggest that the return is small
because banking risks are negligible, seeing
that at least half of the banks of Australia
still wear shuddersome scars. There are
two possible explanations of the poor earn-
ings: one that the banks don’t do things
as vigorously as they should; the other
that they don’t “do” customers as vigorously
as they might if they were greedier.
* * * • ' _
Toojieys, Ltd., of the standard Brewery,
Sydney : ------- -
Net To Re- Re-
Profils. Dividends. serves, serves.
Jan., '09.. £18,796 sp.c.= £lO,OOO £8,796 £13,633
July, ’09.. 17,545 5 „„ 10,000 7,545 21,178
Jan., ’lO.. 19,911 5 „ ~ 10,000 9,911 31,089
Julv, TO.. 20,025 6 „ ~ 12,000 8,025 39,114
Jan., ’ll.. 22,756 6 „., 12,000 10,756 49,870
July, ’ll.. 20,398 6 ~ ~12,000 8,398 58,268
Jan., T 2.. 26,867 7 „„ 14,000 12,867 71,135
July, T 2. . 24,086 7 „., 14,000 10,086 81,221
Jan., 'IS.. 27,750 7 „„ 14,000 13,750 94,971
Julv, T 3.. 23,487 7 ~ „ 14,000 9,487 104,458
Jan., T 4.. 33,120 8 .... 16,000 17,120 121,578
Julv, T 4.. 27,360 8 16,000 11,360 132,938
Jan., T 5.. 35,692 8 16,000 19,692 152,630
Julv, T 5.. 24,514 8 „„ 16,000 8,514 161.141
Jan., T 6.. 22,52 1 8 ~ ~ 16.000 6.521 167,6 6 5
July, ’16.. 21,203 8 „ „ 16,000 5,203 172,868
Profits are shown net; that is, after an
amount has been appropriated to cover de-
preciation not otherwise provided for.
Lately the appropriation has been £5OOO per
half-year. But this is probably a contin-
gency fund, because the directors - generally
announce that all expenditure in connection
with the maintenance of plant “in a high
state of efficiency” is defrayed out of
revenue. It is highly probable, therefore,
that the table puts the net profits at none
too fat a figure. On the other hand, one
has to remember that a large part of the
capital is represented by freehold and lease-
hold properties; and there is nothing to show
whether fair allowance has been made for
the depreciation in value caused by six
o’clock and other legislation.
However, the thing that will most interest
shareholders is the manner in which profits
are being maintained or otherwise; for if an
asset produces £lOO a year for the cb. and
will go on doing it, there are not many share-
holders who will worry whether it is valued
at £lOOO or £3OOO. So far there isn’t any
sign of a serious cut in the profits; but,
then, whatever effect six o’clock closing will
haxfe wouldn’t be exhibited in this last half-
ye'ar’s figures. The breweries are, of course,
"‘struggling to'supply something that will take
the place of the alcoholic brew whose sale
is now stopped after six; but it is unlikely
that that will give them any extra money.
The general tendency of legislation will be
to reduce brewery profits. But that very
legislation will keep competition out of the
field, and more or less assure the present
three cos. a monopoly or thereabouts of the
trade of Sydney. It has been so for the last
15 or 20 years. There are no more brew-
eries in Sydney (and fewer in N. S. Wales)
now than there were when this co. was
formed early in 1902. Yet the population
of Sydney at that time was 485,000,
whereas now it is 780;OO0. Some of the
effect of this is shown in a table covering
omy five years :
July,’ll. Jan.,’l6. July,’l6.
Liabilities, less cash . . £44,596 £72,120 £66,056
Breweries, hotels .-and plant 324,975 400,636 400,021
Stocks . . . . . . 72,703 81,500 99,411
Book debts . . . . 121,187 180,649 160,491
Gross profit on brewings,
etc 52,291 101,887 90,432
Rent and interest .. 8,082 9,733 9,798
Management, wages and
charges .. .. 35,974 82,099 74,026
Gross profits in brewings and sales of
aerated waters and spirits, etc., have thus
increased from £52,291 to £90,432; and
though there may have been some small
changes in bookkeeping during the period to
account for a little of this, the growth of
other figures—stock, for instance, and bbok
debts—indicates a remarkable increase of
business. But don’t expect this to continue.
Holman, Premier and Treasurer of N. S.
Wales, has just owned up to a loan expendi-
ture of £41,000,000 during the past six
years; and on top of that there has been a
Federal expenditure which would have been
regarded as quite incredible a few years
ago. This has meant a perfect blaze of
bogus prosperity; and the brewer is very
liable to get an extra-big cut out of such
unhealthy conditions. The awkward part
of the business is that the wretched slate
has to be cleaned afterwards.
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 6,313 54p.c.= 5,000 1313 3,590
1907.. 8,498 5 „ „ 5,000 3498 7,088
1908.. 10.373 £5/8/4 „ 5,417 4956 12,044
1909.. 10.618 5/16/8 „„ 5,834 1400 3384 15,428
1910.. 12.655 7/8/4 „ „ 7,083 2448 3124 18,552
1911.. 14.123 7/18/4 „ ~ 9,233 1026 3864 22,416
1912. 9/11/8 „ ~11,979 1813 3144 25,560
1913. .17,451 10 ~,,12,500 1500 3451 29,011
1914.. 18.077 10 „ ~12,500 1500 4077 33,088
1915.. 14,442 10 „ ~12,506 1942 35,030
1916.. 15,732 10 „ ~12,500 1242 1990 37,020
Shareholders can’t reasonably growl at those
figures for the year, especially as provision
has been made out of the profits for income
and other taxes. And see how these items
have moved: 1914, £1010; 1915, £1125 ;
1916, £2115. The idea behind all this extra
taxation is that each citizen shall contribute
his little bit —that his net profit sliall be so
much less. That’s the theory of it. But
in practice we find scarcely a concern that
hasn’t managed to make good the extra
taxation in some way; that is to say, they
have practically all “passed it on.” New,
who is it passed on to? In other words,
who does the paying in the end?
In ordinary circumstances when costs are
pushed up the people who suffer are the
primary producers—the men whose market
is foreign; who can’t pass it on. At pre-
sent, however, the position is extraordinary.
Some at least of the primary producers are
able to pass it on: wool and copper, for
instance, are at prices which would a few
years ago have been considered fabulous.
So it becomes necessary to inquire why
the foreign buyer is giving these abnormal
prices; and it transpires that he is passing
it on—he is paying with lOIJ’s and I’N’s.
He is passing it on to To-morrow. And
To-morrow is going to be cold and hard in
consequence. If we still had all this money
or the goods the money is exchanged for it
would be chiefly a matter of collecting later
on the money we are borrowing and re-
distributing now. But the position is by
no means as easy as that. First we are
creating money, which we are giving to
men in exchange for materials and labor,
and we are destroying those materials and
that labor. So we are left without the real
wealth —the materials and the food, etc.,
which the laborers consumed —and all we
have is the paper, which we have to con-
vert into coin later on. Thus, though it
might still be possible to collect taxes from
the holders of the paper, our actual wealth
is being diminished. And, further than
that, we are pouring money into foreign
countries for munitions, etc., and that
money is beyond our power of taxation.
All this hasn’t more to do with the Mutual
Store than with most other cos. But it
sunnlies reasons why this paper believes
that the nresent prosperity is wholly fieti-
tious and that there is a cold time ahead —
just how cold will depend upon whether the
seasons help us and we buckle to and
produce vigorously.
The Mutual Store, ■Ltd., has a capital of
£125.000, and on July 31 it owed £63,528,
including £40,000 on mortgage. But let’s
lay it out on a side-table: —
1911. 1915. 1916.
Liabilities .. £67,340 £59,330 £63,529
Assets:—■
Property . . 103,625 103,625 103,625
Plant, etc... 12,793 12,107 11,435
Stock . . 73,017 79,545 83,719
Cash, etc. . . 31,035 30,333 34,262
In five years the co. has thus reduced its
debts by nearly £4OOO, while it has added
nearly £14,000 to stock, cash and book
debts. And meantime it has paid a regular
10 p.c. dividend. The past is all right; and
the co. is in a good deal better position to
meet a dull future than it would have been
if the tide had turned five years ago.
* * * *
North Broken Hill, Ltd., which till
recently was the N.B.H. Mining Co.,
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier : —■
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
June, ’09.. 27,305 20p.c. = 14,000 13,096 60,495
Dec., ’09.. 31,764 20 „ „ 14,000 17,550 60,709
New share premiums, £ 35,000.. 95,709
June, ’lO.. 50,120 35 p.c.= 28,000 22,783 95,046
Dec., ’lO.. 73,179 40 „ „ 35,000 26,328 106,897
June, ’ll.. 62,201 60 „ „ 52,500 12,662 103,936
Dec., ’ll.. 98,708 70 „ „ 61,250 12,168 129,226
June, ’12.. 101,663 93f „ „ 93,750 11.910 125,229
Dec., ’12.. 175,993 220 „ ~220,000 17,200 04,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £200,000 to £600.000.
June, ’13.. 142,018 20 p.c.= 60,000 3,265 78,753
Dec., '13.. 152.596 40 ~ ~120,000 1,925 109,424
June, ’14.. 183,845 50 ~ ~150.000 143,269
Dec., ’14.. 56,216 Nil 199,485
June, ’15.. 75.724 10 p.c.= 30.000 245,209
Dec., ’15.. 169,201 40 ~ ~ 120,000 294,410
June, ’16.. 142,092 40 ~ ~120,000 316,502
This is the Broken Hill co. that does things
differently. The. other cos. have each a secre-
tary or legal manager to run the co.’s office,
and a general manager whose headquarters
are at the mine or the works. The head-
quarters of the general manager of the
North are at the co.’s office in Melbourne;
and there is no secretary. The Baillieus are
the big dogs in the concern; and apparently
the Baillieus’ idea is to have the boss along-
side them —or to be alongside the boss. Also,
the system of book-keeping is different: and
that has to be remembered when comparing
the North’s- figures with those of, say, the
South. Other cos. reduce their profits by an
amount sufficient in their opinion to cover
depreciation of plant. This co.’s mine and
mill plant remains in the balance-sheet at
cost, and on the other side there is a reserve
for depreciation—an insufficient reserve, it
seems to this paper. So, assuming metals on
hand, etc., have been correctly valued, the
true profit for the past half-year was £142,01)2
less whatever was a fair thing to write off
against wear and tear and depreciation. Pro-
bably £22,002 was a fair thing. Provision
was made for income and land taxes, but not
for war-time profit tax. Yet if the co. doesn't
have to pay a stiff war-profit tax it will be
very well treated, and other people will be
very badly treated. It may surely be laid
down that no citizen should be permitted to
make one penny out of the war. Yet what
are the facts? In the past six months this
co. made a not profit of, say. £120,000. It
did this out of 70,200 tons of ore. That is
equal to £1 14s. 2d. per ton. Now the aver-
age profit for many years previous to the war
was not more than £1 per ton. The
Bulletin showed lately that the B. 11.
South, a very similar proposition, had aver-
aged in dividends 11s. Id. per ton for the
past 71 years. Be absurdly liberal and give
this co. £1 as normal profit, and there is
£49,700 directly due to the war.
But. unfortunately, the matter isn’t dis-
posed of so easily as that. It would obvi-
ously be unjust to collar the war profits of a
co. this half-year and let it stand any war
losses that might be made in another half-
year. In the beginning of the war the co.
showed poorer results than it would if there
had been no war. The co. may be entitled to
a set-off on that account. But that doesn’t
altogether get rid of the trouble either. It is
highly probable that after the war things are
going to be pretty bad for these metal pro-
ducers. They have for many years made a
heap of money out of zinc, sold mostly as con-
centrates to German buyers. It is absolutely
necessary for the safety of the nation to cut
those German buyers out. The world can-
not permit the German to get control of the
metal trade again. But let us distinctly
understand that, in spite of all the “solu-
tions” that have been offered, this is likely to
cost us —and especially the producers of zinc
concentrates—a lot of money. Reluctantly
The Bulletin is compelled to say that it
can see no prospect of anybody else being
able to pay us as much as—for their own
purposes, no doubt —the Germans paid us. So
these cos. are going to make war-losses as
well as war-profits. We don’t know what
those losses are going to be. We don’t even


THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to
Himself and his Family is to
MARE HIS WILE.
Second only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once relieve him-
self of anxiety concerning such
Selection by appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
The Largest and Strongest Trustee
Company in Australasia, which
has had over twenty-eight years’
experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
ThePadfic Cableßoard
BEST BOUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain .and Canada on the following.
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gfc. Britain .. A/~
New Zealand 4ki.
l/<t
/ 3d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4
1/2
I 7d. (minimum
11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7(1. fminimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street. Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne. Tel. -’5BB.
J. MlLWARD.'Manager in the Pacific,
"7 iS'tt Street, SYDNEY.
l ARI BQRNTO
Insure in
Th‘ 1.0. A
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 95,767
Income (Cross) 1915 .. 146,027
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
•Just as there are mines that are mines and mines
that are “duffers” so does one of the principal of
mine equipments, i.e., belting, vary greatly accord-
ing to the maker. As the Goodyear Tyre and Rubber
Co. make, among many other things, belting that
satisfies the most exacting requirements of mining
operations from Alaska to the Panama Canal, and
even further south, they claim that all Australian
requirements are provided for in their extensive
range of Conveyor, Driving and Elevator belting.
Mine managers are invited to apply to the various
State-depots, or direct to 231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for information, samples and quotations.—Advt.
* * * *
The Australian General Electric Company, Went-
worth Avenue, Sydney, corner Queen and Little Col-
lins Streets, Melbourne, stock a complete line of insu-
lators, the quality and reliability of which makes
them especially adaptable to electric mine service.
The above Company will be pleased to submit full
particulars or quotations in this connection, as
desired. —Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline ? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.—Advt.
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s.' 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2 s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers. —Advt. [2
* * * *
There is no Pressure Pipe so efficient gnd economical
as Pioneer Wood Pipe. It saves money, in first cost, in
freight and in labor for laying, as no caulking of the
joints is required. Its durability is assured. It is free
from corrosion and incrustation. Its discharging
capacity remains the same, after years of service, as
when first installed. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (head
office), 57 York Street, Sydney. Contractors to all
State Governments. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.:
Footscrav, Vic. ; Port Adelaide, S.A. —Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne. —Advt.
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iren, Steel and
Cast-Iron Pipes, Messrs, Mephan Ferguson Proprie-
tary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shoos in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.—Advt.
* * * *
Large stocks of malleable fittings for all kinds of
pipe work now being stocked by Arthur Leplastrier
& Co., Circular Quay, Sydney, and The Australian
Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane. —
Advt.
* * * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boilers, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia. —Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Silberberg & Co.. Ltd., 8 O'Connell Street, Sydney ;
and 443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. —Advt.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital l’aid-up .. .. ..£545,760 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,351 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 82,500 0 0
£783,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: I’ihvd. D Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Offices 31 Budge How. Cannrn Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Asrent* and fnn - p«t> r >ndent« thronsrhont the World.
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA & QUEENSLAND.
The only Trustee Company in Australia
empowered by Act of Parliament to operate
in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 48 YOUNC STREET.
Directors:
The lion. Sir CHARLES K. MACKELLAR,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman).
H. Y. BRADDON, Esq. .TAMES KIDD, Esq.
H. W. BELL, Esq. R. M. PITT, Esq.
F. B. S. FALKINER, Esq.
Before making a Will or Settlement of pro-
perty or appointing an Attorney write for book-
let giving the Company’s charges and setting
forth the advantages of appointing the Com-
pare. to t -t\t w itr. Manager.
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
know what they are likely to be. The point for
serious consideration is whether it is practic-
able to make cos. any concession on that
account. Also, whether it would be equit-
able. Other people are going to suffer as a
general result of the war. But there seems
to be a difference between a general suffering
and . a suffering as the direct result of a
special embargo on a certain trade.
The next comparison shows the nearest
approach possible to the North’s cash posi-
tion -
June, T 5. Dec.,Ts. June,’l6.
Assets apart from mine
and plant . . . . £596,913 £653,286 £643,253
Liabilities . . . . 272,677 282,214 250,098
Surplus . . . . £324,236 £371,072 £393,155
In each half-year £120,000 has been paid in
divs.; and still the co. is approximately
£70,000 better off than it was 12 months ago,
less depreciation not covered by plant and
additions, renewals, etc. These have been very
small in the past 12 months. Hence probably
£35,000 must be cut out of that £70,000 as a
set-off against wear and tear—in other words,
as a plant-renewal fund. The £120,000 paid
in the half-year brings the dividends since the
end of 1912 to £600,000 = 100 p.c. on the
watered capital.
No estimate of ore-reserves is made this
half-year. Six months ago there were, it was
believed, 3,000,000 tons above the 1400 ft.
level : and there was a fine body of ore going
down there. As stated above, the South in
74 years has averaged 11s. Id. per ton of ore
—dividends paid. At 12s. per ton this co.’s
3,000,000 tons would be worth £1.800,000 in
profit. Add to that the £393,155 of liquid
assets in excess of liabilities. There are
600,000 shares. But the co. owes £200,000
raised on debentures to buy an interest in the
Broken Hill Prop.’s smelters; and this has
to be paid off by sinking fund.
“Metallurgist” on Hughes’s “solution” of
the metal problem by handing the small pro-
ducers over to a Fat monopoly:—
The legitimate charges and deductions to be made
by a smelter against the ore supplier are as follows:
(1) A charge for smelting the ore, depending on
the tonnage of the ore and influenced by the com-
position.
(2) A charge for refining and marketing the valu-
able constituents of the ore, depending on the quan-
tity of these.constituents, i.e., on the assay.
(3) A charge to cover inevitable smelting losses of
the valuable constituents.
(4) A charge for the smelters’ profit and deprecia-
tion of plant.
Tlie tariff of monopoly created by Mr. Hughes
does not show all' these in detail, but the following
may be deduced: —■
Smelting charge.—On self-fluxing ores this works
out at approximately £1 per ton. If the co. cannot
smelt these ores for 12s. per ton its metallurgical
staff is not as efficient as the writer, from personal
experience of some of them, would imagine.
alties,” or extra smelting charges, are exacted for
zinc, lead, arsenic, bismuth, etc., in certain quan-
tities ; but the combined supplies of any customs
smelter have these, on the whole, in harmless pro-
portions only, and the penalties exacted on individu-
ally impure ores would be bunce.
Realisation charve.—This is on a sliding scale,
from about 2s. per unit of cooper to 2s. Bd. per
unit, according to grade of ore. As it costs the
same to realise a ton of copper from whatever grade
of ore it is produced, and as (presumably) the 2s.
figure is not framed with any idea of making a loss,
it is fair to assume that the co. makes an average
profit on this item of 4d. per unit.
Metal losses.—ln the earliest days of “wet” copper
assaying it became the fashion to assume that 1.3 of
the total units of copper in a ton of ore (as deter-
mined by “wet” assay) were not recoverable. Now-
adays recoveries of 95 p.c. of the copper contents
are easily possible on, say, 10 p.c. ores ; and on this
grade the smelter would get 9.5 —8.7 = 0.8 unit of
cooper for which it would not pay. With copper
selling at £lOO this would be worth 16s. per ton of
ore. The deductions on silver and gold (i.e., fine
silver being paid for at standard price and fine gold
at £4 instead of £4 4s. llfd. per oz.) are reason-
able: but the small quantities of sold (anything less
than ldwt. per ton of ore) and silver (less than loz.
per ton of ore) not paid for must be worth, on the
whole, something not inconsiderable; probably 6d.
per ton of ore all round.
Now, as to the suggestion that the copper-smelting
monopoly is buying on standard price and selling on
electrolytic, it certainly buys on standard ; and as it
has lately been paying on well over £lOO per
ton, we are fairly safe in assuming it is not
selling electrolytic at £lOO, but is scoring the full
benefit of the difference in prices.
We may, then, summarise the profit the monopoly
is making on a 10 per cent, ore as follows:
£ s. d.
In smelting charge .. .. . . 8 0
In realisation charge . . .. . . 3 4
In metal deduction . . . . . . 16 0
In small gold and silver not paid for (say) 0
In impurities penalties (say) . . . . 6
In difference in copper price, 9.5 units
at £24 per ton .. .. .. 2 5 7
Total per ton of ore .. .. £3 13 11
Of course even a monopoly is entitled to some profit;
but does not Mr. Hughes consider this rather over the
fence ?
* * * *
“E.D.”: Westralia’s Minister for Mines
was right when he remonstrated witli Prime
Minister Hughes against compelling mine
owners to unconditional) g send their ore to
Australian smelters. Compel smelting in
Australia if you like, but only on the con-
dition that charges are regulated by the
Government. Also, to make quite sure, the
Government had better be represented in
making the assay.
N. S. Wales gold output for August was
£24,140, which is little more than half the
average monthly value of the yield for 1915.
Ever since the war started costs have been
climbing up. In other words, the war has
reduced the value of gold ; and the proposi-
tion that there can be any “war profits”
from the industry is sA untenable that it
will have to be abandoned. Simply because
gold is the standard of value, there is no
gold mine in the world that wouldn’t have
been more profitable had there been no war.
*- * * *
Occidental, Cobar, is now sending ore
from its crosscut at 740 ft. to the mill. The
lode was struck at 116 ft. from the shaft and
values are apparently about the same as at
the 640 ft. level, which has been drawn on
rather heavily of late to feed the battery.
The output of 623 tons in a fortnight is
small for a low-grade mine, but the stoping
area has been limited by the increase of
mining costs, partly the result of strikes.
It doesn’t look like getting on the dividend
list in a hurry.
On June 30 Ivanhoe (W.A.) calculated
it had 1,036,474 tons of 365. lid. ore in
sight, or 327 tons less and Id. per ton higher
grade than the estimate six months ago.
The reserves are distributed as follows:
East lode 698,462 tons, average 355.; Middle
lede 137.434 tons, average 40s. 4d.; New
lode 166.715 tons, average 365. Bd.; Boul-
der lode 23,863 tons, average 745. lid. Two-
thirds of the mine’s visible wealth is there-
fore in the East lode, which on account of
a big porphyry intrusion has been worth
comparatively little for several levels. The
value of this body in deeper ground is still
doubtful.
An attempt is being made to resurrect the
Golden Butterfly, the show at Tampa, near
Kookynie (W.A.), formerly known as the
Gregory. A weak Adelaide co. acquired it
some years ago, but results did not come up
to expectations, and want of funds drove the
co. into liquidation. Now a new find in the
neighborhood has tempted the co. to have
another flutter.
*** . *
The Victory at Mt. Clifford, on the Mur-
chison (W.A.), has a remarkable record.
When it was thought that everything worth
having had been extracted a tribute party
made a profit of over £20.000 in 12 months.
The latest return from the claim is about
£3OOO from four tons.
* * *
Southern Cross (W.A.) is bowed to the dust
with grief at the prospect of the Corinthian
North shutting down. The local pubs, news-
paper and undertakery depended a good deal
on the operations of this co. for a living.
Proposed operations at Mt. Rankin and the
further-afield Broncho Horseshoe and Allen’s
Find will keep the bailiffs out of the town
for a while and enable Bullant Mclntyre’s
“business as usual” flag to flutter in the
breeze a little longer.
* * * *
Oroya Links (W.A.J shuts down its mill
at the end of the month and intends in
future to rely mostly on tributors for a
living. Only the Eclipse section of the co.’s
extensive holding now has any reserves to
speak of, and they are worth but little in
dividends. In 20 years several millions
sterling have been taken out of the other
blocks, but the co.’s predecessor, the Oroya-
Brown Hill, got almost the wnole of that,
handing over the property only when it saw
there could be no further tvindow dressing
for the market. The Kalgurli will probably
be the next on the Golden Mile to cease
operations on its own account, and the
Perseverance and possibly the Associated
may follow suit not long after. The extrac-
tion of “leavings” from the old levels is all
that keeps them alive.
North Kalgurli (W.A.) did not do as well as
was expected last year owing to the increased
cost of supplies and dearth of suitable labor.
£7931 was extracted by tributors, and other
receipts made the total £8519. Expenditure
was £9257; and after allocating £37 for
income tax there was a deficit of £775. The
co. has about £4OOO invested in the War
Loan and has advanced £7OOO on a contract
for the manufacture of munitions. Refer-
ence was made at the meeting to the possi-
bility of the adjoining Kalgurli or South
Kalgurli taking over the property. The
Board expressed its willingness to sell, but
thought it would be better to hold on until
the co. was in a position to determine the
real value of the mine at depth. One shoot
200 ft. in length on the eastern side of the
main workings was, according to the chair-
man, absolutely unproved, and he said it
“might easily contain 140,000 tons of ore
averaging about 28s. per ton.” But. seeing
that a plant costing between £40,000 and
£50.000 would be required to treat the ore,
it is very doubtful whether that tonnage
would justify the expenditure on plant.
Chairman Marker, of South Kalgurli
(W.A.), calculates that an all-round in-
crease of at least 20 per cent, in the cost of
stores occurred last year, and on that basis
the additional cost to his co. had been about
£lO,OOO, approximately Is. 6d. per ton of
ore treated.
The latest addition to the pay-sheet of
Edna May Central is said to be a new assist-
ant manager—Harry Williams, once of Edna
May, where he was taught that silence is
golden. There has been a calm in the
market since Giblin took charge; but it is
said that joy-bells have been ringing in
Queen-s'treet over a report that he thinks
well of the show. The enthusiasm has not
spread to the market, though.
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has for six
months been shuffling along towards the
Ajax North boundary at No. S level. Now
it has got there it has to admit that the lode
on the way is merely a string of patches.
Still, that is better than nothing. The
battery has been fed from some blocks over-
head in the intermediate as well as from
the stopes of No. 1 and No. 2 rises at No. 9
level. As there isn’t much crush stuff left
at either of these levels, and much less at
No. 7, Phil Lewis will heave a sigh when
he gets to work east and west from the
bottom of the new sink at 1210 ft. Judging
by the sandstone he had to go through in
the last 30ft. of the shaft, he has a tough
job ahead. And not very bright hopes to
spur him on either; -for at Daylesford noth-
ing much has been found below 1000 ft. But
the mine has been such a little wonder that
a final flutter has to be made. All the
capital rounded up for the Ajax was £7BOO.
On that it shovelled out £289.600 of gold
and paid over £lOl,OOO in divs. Oddly
enough for a Victorian co. it has a credit
balance of £lBB5. This, with any small
profit lurking in the stopes, will keep the
pot boiling a bit longer.
If plain speaking has any effect, the
people mining in the Chiltern Valley, Ruther-
glen (Vic.), ought to feel a bit sick over
the dusting chairman Rothwell has given
them. On 17dwt. wash not a penny of
profit is being earned, whereas not long since
14dwt. ground paid divs. Of course, mine
supplies are up, and Justice Powers’s wages
log operates. But allowing for all that,
Rothwell alleges that labor is slowing down
so effectively as to mop up most of the 3dwt.
increase in values. Out of £1,200.000 of gold
won the co. has paid labor £594,000 direct
in wages, and £370,000 indirectly for fuel,
timber and other mine supplies, while
returning shareholders £237,000. With a
fair go the mine might last for years. John
Cock., jun., swears to good gold in a tribu-
tary on the north side of the lead, and with
a co-operative party doing well further up
this gutter his guess of profitable work ahead
is probably right. The pilot drives on the
main gutter west are in scoured ground, and
in the Chiltern gutter this has always meant
an enrichment ahead.
* * * *
Dead in Adelaide, at 90, John Tippett,
who came from Cornwall nearly 70 years
ago to erect the machinery at a South Aus.
copper mine, and did the same for mines
and mills past counting.
* * * *
J. Cameron, M.L.A. (Vic.), sees no
reason why the Speck should have all the
electro-metallurgical schemes, and he has
one of his own for East Gippsland. His
idea is that the Snowy River could generate
anything from 20,000 to 60,000 h.p. of
energy to be used in smelting the iron ore
from the deposits between Nowa Nowa and
the N.S.W. border. He says there are not
only big deposits of iron and manganese but
millions of tons of exceptionally pure lime-
stone and all the makings of a big industry.
* * * *
The Coronet Hill (N.T.) Development
Co. is now called upon to do some more
developing or die. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, on the strength of a very favorable
report from the Director of Mines at Dar-
win, has agreed to continue giving £ for £,
but stipulates that the co. must raise more
capital as a guarantee of good faith. The
sum in hand would suffice to keep things
going for not more than three months, so the
management is asking for another £5OOO
from the public. When T. G. Oliver made
his report the drives from the tunnel had
gone only 16ft. each way, north and south.
The mine manager, at latest, reports 100 ft.
of driving and 220 tons of ore at grass,
estimated to average 12 p.e. copper, plus a
few ounces of silver to the ton. The show
looks worth further exploitation, apart from
its possibilities of a surprise. Oliver’s report
credits the property with “two miles of good-
looking lode outcrop, from 4ft. to 12ft. in
width.”
* * # *
“E.D.” : Re Karridale, Burtville (W.A.).
In 1906-7 the proprietors worked the mine
to below 180 ft., both the small and “large”
reef. Water- level at Burtville is from 80ft.
to 100 ft. The claim was worked for all it
is or was worth by a small party of lucky,
silly men. The moment water came in they
were too canny to establish a good pumping
plant. They baled the water with buckets
and billy-cans, and when the liquid got the
bi tter of them they plugged their fairly
large profits in their boots and ran for it.
This is the history of most Westralian rich
patch hunters, except that they all don’t
keep the money in their boots. Often the
surplus cash is invested at the nearest pub
or sly-grog shanty. There may or may not
be plenty of good stuff left at the Ivarridale.
That remains to be proved. Samples assay-
ing 6oz. can be picked out in dozens of places
in Australia, but the stuff has the fault of
good whisky. My verdict is, don’t be too
sure about the property.
(“Wild Cat" continued on page 26.)


Under
Royal
Warrant
ĥ
To H.M
George V
CHAMPAGNE {
Charles Heidsieck
u
CHAMPAGNf
Qttriesllfitete*
Reims
a-OC*'
ħ
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
“GEORGETTE,” of Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Paris, will be showing
French Hats at the Carlton Motel, Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney, from the 20th Sep-
tember. — Advt.
GEORGETTE
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
Latest French Hats
Showing at Carlton Hotel, Sydney,
from September 20.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
FESQ C&b CO. LIMITED, Sydney*
1906.
SINCE 1679. since 1679.
HAIG & HAIG
SCOTS WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 11, 191 G.
My Dear Arini, —
The Women’s Exhibition was well and
truly opened by the Cullen lady to the half-
crown circle that spins at such affairs. When
the usual Is. tariff came into force crowds
began to pour into the Town Hall. Exhibits
included everything from the right way to
curl your hair to the art of tossing scones
into somebody’s patent stove.
Blind soldiers, bravelv facing the dark
road, demonstrated in tuning pianos and
basket-making. Silkworms writhed under
the chaperonage of Mrs. A. E. Anderson.
The horticultural Miss Brace'had her own
parlor in the basement. A model Horticul-
tural College for women and a miniature
settlement for soldiers were exhibited here.
Mrs. Jocelyne, in one of the Red Cross pens,
presided over pickled onions. In one corner
of the basement chickens made their d§but
out of crackling shells to chirp their in-
cubator-maker's praise. Bush book-club
ladies who send carefully-chosen literature
to Bullocky Bill were near by.
A weak place in the exhibition, which was
organised by the Girls’ Realm Secretary,
Grace Burrows, was the tea-room. The
voluntaries couldn’t be depended on. Hon-
orary waitresses came or stayed away as
they chose. When they didn’t turn up, the
hon. manageress Mrs. Norman (always at
her post) had the anguish of seeing cash
leave the premises with its thirst still
unsatisfied.
The National Council ladies got into con-
ference during the early days of the
Exhibition, barricaded behind placards of
“No Entrance” in the Town Hall vesti-
bule. Mrs. Langer Owen took up
the story of the Red Cross. Mrs.
Francis Anderson, touching play for
man, woman and child, asked, “What are we
going to give the working-man to make up
for the beer he isn’t supposed to drink after
0 p.m.?” No one rushed an answer. The
Tom Hughes lady took the chair at one of
these august discussions. Peter, C.M.G.,
the long thin Board of the Education De-
partment, ventured alone into the lionesses’
parlor. He talked of schoolgirls’ happy
days, and suggested spreading a layer of
domestic-science jam over the three R’s.
Amongst the exhibitors the Commonwealth
Patriotic Association deserves a line. Dr.
Mary Booth is president of this show, which
goes on all the year, with Ruth Beale as hon.
secretary. These conspirators are banded
together to barrack for Australian and (if
there’s no hope of Australian) British in-
dustries. They’re sharpening their tongues
and pens to fight the “made-in-Germany”
saucepans that may sneak in after the war.
Did you ever see an Australian girl tatting
with heavy twine? Two of them were hard
at it in the Town Hall. The huge Otter
trawl-net fit doesn’t catch otter, of course)
is the result of this exercise. It looks like
physical culture with a mile or two of tawny
hemp to play with.
Even the old Soft Rag workers for the
Red Cross are not all angels. Some of the
older dames got their backs up at the tem-
porary move from the Town Hall cellar to
the upper floor. It was only during the
Exhibition, of course. But they weren’t
going to be done out of their rights. They
stalked into the cellar —a tea-room for the
time—sat down in great majesty, and
haughtily refused to be “dislodged.” When
the good-tempered secretary said they were
right welcome to sit there, it broke up the
storm, and one by one the Baggers crept
up to the substitute place of bandages.
O.ur State Governor is an engineer wasted.
Still, even a Governor may find occasional
joys in applied mechanics, and lately he
invented a quick-running, labor-saving spin-
ning machine. I fancy his Ex. seized a
piece of gaspipe and a few odds and ends
and tossed the thing together as a surprise
for the blue-eyed Eldest Daughter. Then
she demonstrated with it at the Women’s
Exhibition. The throng hung over the rail
while the spinster pulled out the yarn in a
long, smooth thread. Behind sat the other
spinning Jennies. In charge of all was an
hon. dragon who rushed to the rail if the
public dared to ask how it worked. It’s
twice as swift as the big mill-wheel pattern
that Marguerite toys with in “Faust,” and it
looks like the homely vitals of a sewing
machine with extras thrown in. His Ex',
stole into the crowd to watch the beloved
thing eating wool and giving yarn.
A recent list of killed and wounded in
France contains the name of Brigadier-
General C. B. Prowse, D.S.O. He was a
brother of our Captain Prowse, R.N., killed
in the Jutland battle. The General’s promo-
tion had been very rapid. But that’s pretty
common nowadays. Amongst the latest
V.C.’s is Acting-Lieut.-Colonel A. Carton de
Wiart, D. 5.0., Dragoon Guards. This time
last year he was a captain. That is how
they go up—and out.
The Automobile Club on Saturday gave
convalescent Billjim a spin round the sub-
urbs. After that there was a party at the
club-house in Phillip-street. Malcolm
McEachern, Annie Perry, a lady Knut from
the National who brought the house down
with “Boys of the Village,” and a few more
did their bit on the platform. Engineer-com-
mander Denison and his wife came along.
He may leave Garden Island any time, as he’s
appointed to Pl.M.A.S.—pooh! I don’t care;
you don’t even want to know that the old
thing is still knocking round. J. J. Rouse
gave the boys a two-minutes’ speech of wel-
come, and secretary Morgan, the Lipmans,
A. L. Blythe and li. Minnett helped to push
the show to a glittering finish. Incidentally,
lady voluntaries passed round pyramids of
refreshments.
That long streak of the Peerage, Earl
Grey,, brought his wife and daughter Sybil
here in March, 1914. Nobody except Ger-
many was thinking of a great war in those
easy-going days. So the three Greys got up
with the magpie to peer into the Jenolan
Caves. After that they went further west.
Lately daughter Sybil has had more thrill-
ing trips. She has been working with the
Anglo-Russian ambulance. And then she
got wounded; while practising hand-grenade
throwing—a new pastime for girls—some-
thing exploded before its time.
Dr. Emma Buckley, who made a name
at the Lister Research Institute, is back
from London. She was badly wanted in her.
old post at Prince Alfred Hospital, though
when the shortage of doctors is less acute
she may go off again to the Lister menagerie.
For the next six months, however, she will
be Chief Bacteriologist at the P.A.H.
Major Harper and his wife have been
over from Melbourne, tasting the Harbor
and sunning themselves at Bowral —all in
a. short fortnight. Henry, the one member
of the Robert Harper family with a mili-
tary training, found the signals against him
on account of a long-ago typhoid bout. So
he has been doing local embarkation work.
The Fred Donkins’ place was the visitors’
camp at Bowral; Mrs. Donkin and Mrs.
Harper were daughters of the late parson
Colin McCulloch, of Queensland.
Did you notice that an Australian sailor,
Rear-Admiral Gaunt, son of the old Vic-
torian County Court Judge, and brother of
Mary the writer, commanded one of the
divisions in the Jutland fight? He has been
mentioned in despatches by Jellicoe. But it
was always his habit to get “mentioned”
wherever he was.
This is a char-
acteristic photo, of
artist Da 11 i 1 o
Rubbo —an Italian
whose technique
was acquired under
the famous painter
Domenico Morelli.
Domenico was then
instructor at the
Royal Academy of
Nanles. After a
severe apprentice-
ship to Art, young
Rubbo broke away
to enter the Italian
Army. Hence the
martial tread of the
artist whose studies
of wrinkled age
may be seen in our
National Gallery. A few years’ soldiering
—then back to the brushes. Rubbo’s black
eyes flash at the suggestion of method in
Art. He is an emotional, rather than a
photographic, artist. A visitor to Paris
before the enemy set its hoof in fair France,
he swings towards the Impressionists. He is
the only Sydney exhibitor in the Royal Art
Society’s show to find inspiration in the
great war, and has painted “The Traitor” in
almost his best manner. Like most other
Australian artists at present, he teaches
night and day for bread and butter. In
spare time, when the soap-boiler is lounging
in tennis flannels, the artist works at his
easel.
Public-school children had their annual
outing on the Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday. This year brought a welcome
relief from live bunting. Young Australia
formed, instead, the Victoria Cross. Most
timely, too, for in the afternoon word came
of a new list of Australian boys who wear
the coveted trophy. Five of them, Mother
State’s rep. being one of her wonderful bush-
lads—Private Wm. Jackson, of Gunbar,
aged 18£. no less. And, alas! short of an
arm for life.
The Women’s Battleplane Committee is
also fighting for your shillings. At last
meeting the committee’s seasoned warriors
suggested having cash-collecting tables here
and there. The Attorney-General is to be
approached on tiptoe to give consent. Mrs.
Tom Watson —a joint hon. sec. —is scouring
her suburb for the nimble bob.
Southern Maorilanders regret the news of
Flight-Lieut. Jim Dennistoun’s death.
Plenty of the needful and a love of sport
made his life especially endurable. His
father, Geo. Dennistoun, was an R.N. man
who made a success of sheep-raising in South
Canterbury. His mother was a sister of
Knight William Russell, who used to steer
the “Reform” party. They are a gritty
lot and it was characteristic of the breed
that when war broke out Jim worked his
passage home as a seaman simply to get his
muscle up. A brother George, who is in
the Navy, is battle-cruising in West Africa;
he married pretty Beatrice Pyne, of Christ-
church, before leaving for the war zone.
The French-Aus-
tralian League was
born into a w#r-
tossed world in
Jan., 1915. Every
fortnight since then
it has sent about
3500 garments to
the widows and
orphans of France.
The State-school
kiddies of N. S.
Wales are, to date,
responsible for no
less than 30,000
. garments, made
under the eyes of
their teachers. Mrs.
Joseph Playoust,
whose pleasant face
you see just here,
is president of this League. With a son
of her own at the Front, she bubbles with
enthusiasm over “these dear Australian
children.” Mrs. Playoust’s own young days
were spent at Tourcoing. Her eldest
daughter also opened her eyes there, and a
younger girl was at school in the picturesque
hamlet w T hen war broke out. It was 14
long months before an anxious mother could
get her lamb home to the fold.
Lieut.-Colonel Hutton, one-time aide to
his Ex. Liverpool, of Maoriland, and cousin
of her Ex., is returning to M.L. invalided
and thrice wounded. He brings his youthful
bride, who used to be Marie Rhodes, of
Christchurch. A staff job with the Gover-
nor for a time and afterwards more war is
his present programme.
Thelma Maddrell is to be married on the
23rd. Not to the first young man. That’s
“off” long ago. Venour Nathan has the
luck to really win the Braidwood girl.
Dr. Alexis Maclean, a Sydney ’Varsity
graduate, has just been appointed to a Bris-
bane hospital. But she came from Banana-
land in the first place.
The Spencer Bruntons’ daughter Evelyn
goes to England in the Osterley. She hopes
to eat her Christmas dinner with sister Jean
—now Mrs. Adrian Moreing.
The Spring races at Randwick open on
September 30 this year. Clothes are likely
to be of the early-summer, useful washing
variety. For one thing Government House
won’t be interested. Strictly no races for
the castle in Macquarie-street till the dove
flaps her wings.
There was a queer ferry-load of passengers
across the Harbor the other morning. The
old Zoo in Moore Park had just gone out of
business; and the dromedaries and a few
more of the animals that came out of the
ark were getting another sea-trip, this time
to their new home at Taronga Park. They
haven’t very many neighbors yet. The lions
and the tigers have not yet had a house-
warming—as a matter of fact, their boudoirs
aren’t out of the builders’ hands. But
most of the birds are there, and monkeys—
who provide the comic relief —and a few
seals. The seals got out the other morning
and sampled the goldfish in one of their
ponds. Whether the lion will be able to
get out of his den hasn’t yet been deter-
mined. The idea, of course, is not to have
any cages; and whether the lion stays at
home or gives Mosman some excitement
depends upon whether director Le Souef
has correctly guessed how far King Leo can
jump.
A line from “Rosna,” in Britain:—
Isabel Shiell, of Sydney, who has been helping at
Wandsworth, has been up to London to see the
Queen. The capable and charming Sydneysider
wanted to keep her medal of the Territorial Nursing
Association as a memento, but was sternly told
such a thing never had, could, would or should be
done. Considering her fine work, however, they
relented enough to tell the War Office about it, and
the next thing was our Isabel heard that Queen
Alexandra would receive her at Marlborough House,
no less, and present the medal in person. The
monarchy proved most delightful and capped the
interview with the personal gift of a fur-lined cape.
Ren6 Maxwell, who went to London with
the Quinlan Opera Co., recently won a gold
medal for her singing. It was the best thing
the Guildhall School of Music had to give
away to vocal students.
Lionel Curtis, a tall young white-maned
Englishman with a deep gramophone voice,
talks in the King’s Hall on September 14 on
“The Problem of the British Common-
wealth.” It sounds like a truck of iron-
mongery ; but this John the Baptist, though
tremendously in earnest, can make his
evangel interesting. He seems to have got
involved in what he calls the Imperial pro-
blem when he was at the big job of cleaning-
up after the war in S’Africa. He saw that
the four Colonies would drift apart over the
black-labor question, and that there was a
tremendous danger of a repetition of U.S.A.
experience. In those days he was town
clerk of Johannesburg, and he and his
friends got to work and not only laid the
foundations for the S’African Union, but
prepared the specifications as well. Inci-
dentally the larger question of the relations
of the different parts of the Empire came
up, and Round Table Circles were set up
in England, Canada, Australia and S’Africa
to discuss difficulties and find a way of
overcoming them. That’s evidently what
John the Baptist is going to lecture about.
He has already done a good deal of talking
at the University Club.
Brains are banded together to help the
Australian Mining Corps’ Comforts Fund.
Its amazing professor-soldier David, who
seized his geological tools to slay Goliath,
asks for this help. Sept. 18 is the date
fixed for a concert in aid. The ’Varsity
Engineers, the Royal Society, the Institute
of Surveyors and the Institute of Architects
are amongst the backers.
Hats are smaller and larger than they
were. The tiny ones consist of a fluff of
silk and tulle with the smallest flowers in
the world dotted round their crown. Brims
they have none.
The large lace collars of the principals and
a black velvet for everyone are outstanding
features of “Un Ballo.” Also, Cappelli, as
the Duke, is surrounded by incandescent
glare of brilliants. This necklet is like 10-
pounds’ worth of municipal lighting, and the
effect pierces even the uttermost gloom of the
theatre. Little Miss Yisoni, as the page
Oscar, wore a doublet of turquoise blue with
superlative silk tights over shapely limbs. A
small, trussed canary in her stationary
moments, she warbled sweetly when there
was trouble brewing. Mrs. Amelia de Revers
attended the masked ball in heliotrope drap-
erv with her head in a fancy hood. Behind
a fan the size of half a cartwheel she sang
farewell to the Duke —heavily disguised in a
black overall with red-satin ribbons.
At Los Angeles (Cal.) there’s a Gamut
Club which is given to musical parties. A
few weeks since it feasted Leo Cherniavsky,
and hinted that there might be a matri-
monial engagement between the fiddler and
Maud Allan, of Salome fame. Leo said
neither yea nor nay.
The Stricklands are investigating Moree
mud baths and other local, sights as I write
this. There’s an idea that her Ex. might
be benefited by taking a course of the local
waters.
The flyaway nurses’ bonnet, which the
younger Nightingales generally balance on
their back hair, may yet be altered to some-
thing more useful. The war brought us the
military nurses’ workmanlike outdoor garb,
including a becoming felt hat, with a shady
brim, and military fixings. It’s miles ahead
of the sunstroky affair that perches on the
ordinary hospital trainees’ neck.
The Scotney-White pair had the bad luck
to collide with the opera season; and the
chance given of hearing Italian birds sing
the lilts of their own Verdi didn’t help the
concert warblers. Nevertheless, business
improved for the final effort. Soprano
Evelyn, who runs up and down the scale
like a well-trained thrush, gets this town’s
applause. Her basso-profundo, Howard
White, is a vocal heavyweight who didn't
grip Sydney audiences.
Maoriland is still grinning over a recent
letter from its ex-Gov. Lord Plunkett. IP I
said he had visited the Y.M.C.A. building
on the Anzacs’ Front, and was glad to find
it attracted men from “other undesirable
places.” Jack Virgo, by the way, the
Y.M.C.A.’s general secretary, chasing
through the world from his London head-
quarters, will look in here in a week or
two. He was an Adelaide boy, who started
earning a crust in the warehouse run in
those days by our Mrs. Wattle Day Kettle-
well’s father.
There must be some marble in the build
of poor Nordica’s relatives. They sold
even her clothes by public auction.
Catalogued as thus, “One cerise evening
cloak, one black-jet gown,” etc., they were
knocked down to the highest bidder in
Newark (N.J.) a few weeks ago.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
*v\
J.-w*'
♦wSW'**-’
, 0
E
J*3*
■■Tin* ssf 1
A \
ys(
m
r.
*PHKi
r .
%
■j6B£X
4+tA
-_'• *.;> • \ v*'
m
i m
jMe-s
m
>;>■
2^
- ,V*» - ' .<
JSP^
(-• ; S
I*£> V
* •' ( ,c*‘?V V - ' '
y ';\. r,> '' •*** . » •
Jw&Xr
' ' I !$5
; -■' ~s
m
4-
J»sr^
>S «£&&*** ‘ Jdjjggi^?•
w^j^rnw^
-'■ ••■ T... .•<«■, *;,>?'•'" I>/vU t»*?TV / I
H
Ml
i-«SJ
*
*43
«0^
itfes
*(**’*'
Mil
•Ait
•«i§M
V< v>
-
aw
*'v/
wm
«!&
■ass/ ■ ■•• KjMastots;rsk±t»4o* r: 'Z- v
»! f
•• >**
s'jX
!*;
f***
,~
ÜBS
Si
./<3|
V*T
r
mm
f-Zvi wV'2iv
fiL* *> 'wy* '* VJ
//•■
m
JSUiW
i
m i
pj^pai
S .;<TO>
-V r vjrv'V-'
■mm
&
<aw
'•:r'“-
-vVt-
Ps
ii ! r.ts
T*vS®
‘ <f
A
rxm
m
iM
Jssatfß^V* 1-
■ ~V: . .
IW£S
9«”,i5
SB
T'Js
■'. . .^-iss.vr'-~'“‘A o'lj
is vSS/;J!y>' ? "
Us.T-'
*
I'S.V
:rri s ', tf <(
?rS
f-p>
■ v -*'A?
sSs
a/’ L—
; 1 <*':
n»
SHSm
Ml
..-%tfr
s^w
8§
IP-'
n
as®
9 n .^p.y3v-
-2 3 &
W,, y>
Bigl|
M
.ssp
P® 1 1
si,x»s»y
/ /
•s.
#<**&
ppf?.'
*. . s
#s.^„
Cx_± J 5
<s7
I > Or^
3S**
€6
Cobra,” Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Wears the newest
Helmet, too.
When the shells burst
Overhead,
Chunder doesn’t
Fall! Instead
On he with
Dog and Bear
To the Germans’
Muddy lair.
“ Kamerade !” the
Teutons squeal
When they sight
The “COBRA" steel.


A'
,
FOR YOUR NEW SEASON'S HAT
SRSI.
Nothing could be more serviceable or
smarter looking than the Hat pictured. It
is suitable for men of all ages, and repre-
sents the maximum value possible. Has
cut edges, brims 2 % and 2 % inches
wide, and is obtainable in the following
colors: Light Grey, with Black Band,
Slate, Brown and Pawn; also in Grey
Mixtures.
Prices: 12/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6 & 18/6.
Carriage\ Paid to any part of A ustralia.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
USE PINE TAR FOR COUGHS AND
COLDS.
A SPECIALIST’S ADVICE.
Chronic coughs, catarrh, throat and
bronchial troubles that resist all ordinary
remedies usually yield at once to the sooth-
ing, healing and strengthening influence of
the medicinal properties contained in tar.
pine and wild cherry. All these properties,
as well as several other valuable remedial
agents, are found in a syrup made by dis-
solving half a pound of sugar in half a pint
of hot water, and then adding 2oz. of ordi-
nary bitrate of tar. Stir thoroughly, pour
into a pint bottle, and when cool it is ready
for use. One or two teaspoonfuls of this
simple and inexpensive cough syrup will
quickly overcome a bad cough, and that
annoying tickling in the throat will disap-
pear almost instantly. Children should take
from a quarter to half of the above quanti-
ties several times a day. The fact that
bitrate of tar is entirely free from opium,
morphine, cocaine, heroin or other poisonous
habit-forming drugs to which scientists and
physicians so strongly object, is doubtless
one of the reasons why its use is becoming
almost universal.— Advt.
TV
Vv V":
Motorists—
Why Tax
Yourselves ?
All Motorists in this Country are already
heavily taxed, yet there are to-day Car
Owners who are purchasing foreign-made
Tyres, unaware of the fact that they are
considerably adding to their existing
taxation and increasing the cost of
their motoring. Every imported
cover coming into this Country has to
pay from 1/6 to 2/- (in the case of foreign
tyres) for every lb. weight of cover,
outside of freight charges, etc. Take a
22 lb. cover —on the higher rate —this
mectns £2 2s. a cover or £8 Bs. for a
set of four. These figures explain
WHY Motorists have to pay a
higher rate for imported tyres as against
the Australian-made “ DUNLOP.”
Naturally this Customs charge is added
to the selling price—and passed on to
the purchaser. It is self-evident, there-
fore, to what an extent the purchaser
of imported Tyres taxes himself.
What for?
In Dunlop
Tyres you get
better quality rubber, greater
thickness and strength in casing,
and the most up-to-date method of
construction. In fact a better all-round
wearing cover, for which you pay a fair
price— not plus pounds that was
never spent in manufacture. “Dunlops”
cost considerably more to make
owing to using a Para rubber compound,
and heavier casing than imported covers
of the same size - YET COST YOU
LESS.
This fact means that it costs
you less per mile to motor on
DUNLOP TYRES
/ STOCKED IN
GROOVED, THREE-RIBBED
and RUBBER NON-SKID.
V
r
<
<
<
SHS
M
m
New
Dunlop
Non-SKid
Cover
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide. Penh, Brisbane, Launceston,
Wellington and Christchurch.
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, September 11, 1916.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Melba’s matinee was a huge success —like
most of her ventures. Guineas and half-
guineas crowded the stalls and filled the
circle to the limit. The G.-G. and his party
arrived early, and the genial potentate was
caught waving his handkerchief to some
stalled friends just before lights were doused.
Lady Helen sat behind a forest of daffodils,
and. her turban-toque with its perpendicular
feather looked like the head-dress of some
Indian rajah. A khaki aide and a blue-
lapelled sample hovered in attendance. State
Governor Stanley came late into the opposite
box where Captain Conant played big bro-
ther to the three Stanley children. The
elder girl showed a mane of very fair hair,
but young Patricia kept her very best hat on
all the time. Mrs. John Sanderson, in won-
derful black-and-white crinolined clothes, was
in the next box, and Mrs. Woolcott had a
party in another roost. But the poor lady
had to send a deputy-hostess, having
sprained her ankle after sending out the in-
vitations. Mrs. Pearce was one of the in-
vited. She wore Dronze silk fitted out with
the new puffy side-panniers and a cute little
bronze bonnet. The daughters of the old
nobility sold programmes. Little Doris
Blackwood was in simple blue muslin with
an innocent rose in her hat amid women
garbed like so many Queens of Sheba. Roma
Clarke was tightly and slenderly bound in
black ; but she wore Gipsy ear-rings and her
hat was crowned with all the wax flowers
and fruit from under the glass shade in the
front parlor. All the sellers wore gold mime-
masks bound to their arms by paddy-green
ribbon.
Melba, as Marguerite in “Faust,” made
up like an 18 year-old. Her own blue eyes
were assisted by a flaxen wig which draped
her like a wonderful shawl and was all
tangled up with loose straw. It was the last
act, but she did without the angels. The
house howled for her at the finish, refusing
to be silenced by the curtain. At last she
made a little speech of thanks and many
bows. Goossens (Faust) sang in a black-
velvet doublet with his bright-green knees
knocking together. Fred Collier was a hope-
lessly respectable Mephistopheles, who
arrested Faust in a red lit doorway, and
spared him the lift-descent into Hades.
The matinee then got on with its vaude-
ville and comic-opera business. The “High
Jinks” people put on a complete act. Madge
Fabian recited in corn-colored clothes and a
bashed blue hat. Some behind-the-scenes man
appeared and apologised for the omission of
Max Selinsky’s name from the programme.
“He will appear noio!” announced the
stranger, and violinist Max strode on looking
thundery. When he really started work he
played everything he had prepared without
giving the house time to clamor for it. Pro-
bably owing to Melba’s timing the pro-
gramme cut-out at exactly five, o’clock in-
stead of stringing along like most charity
matinees towards dinner-time. The proceeds
go to the Distressed Actors’ Fund.
The Overseas Club gave a party on
Thursday afternoon to meet Mrs. Billy
Hughes. The new clubrooms in Collins-
street are glassed in like a conservatory,
and there will soon be a forest of the potted
palms which are so useful to yawn behind.
Mrs. Hughes appeared above some lovely
furs and lace in a tight little fawn-colored
hat She had not long to stay, as William
v.,3 going on from Sydney to Adelaide and
she wanted to pack him safely into the
Adelaide express. Mrs. Pearce came to the
paitj ai.d went off with Mrs. Hughes. She
looked lih. Lady Jane Grey in a large ruff,
black velvet gow.i and a flat bonnety hat.
The Honnessy dame rustled in. hung with
chinchilla furs. Mrs. Fred Eggleston hurried
in for a few moments. She wore navy blue
and paddy green and reported that her
lawyer-husband was down from Duntroon
on final leave. Mrs. James, the major’s wife,
said “How d’you do?” and “Good-bye,” for
she’s off to be nearer the firing-line. There
was some fine singing and playing going on
behind the teacup clatter and the roar of
gossip.
Last week the Toorak Spowers family said
good-bye again to son Alan, who has got
himself fit after collecting numerous wounds
and a Military Cross. He steamed off by the
Karmala for his second helping of shell-fire.
At last the Albert Miller widow is packing
up and buying tickets for herself and a
grandson—the Clive Miller’s son and heir.
Their destination is England. Arrived there,
she will hand the boy over to mother, dash
round to see her new grandson (Marjorie
“Levey” Miller’s fatherless bairn), and then
go off to visit son-in-law Alan Currie, who is
recovering from wounds in a military hospi-
tal.
The Fred Paine matron, who has been in
England since the first gun spoke, has been
seriously ill in Douglas Shield’s London hos-
pital. Her husband, who had hardly un-
packed his bags after his return to Mel-
bourne, hurried back to England at once. The
invalid is now sitting up and taking nourish-
ment. The widow of lawyer J. L. Purves
is getting well at the same address.
Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn slipped quietly
into Melbourne the other day, looking much
slimmer and younger. This patriotic dame
whilst in England hostessed a flat in which
midshipmen, admirals, privates and generals
used to drink tea together. Eldest son
Osborne Fairbairn made a successful flight
over the enemy’s lines and returned with a
very damaged machine and himself severely
wounded, the result being that his arm is
now enriched with gold plates. Second son,
: Jim, has also joined the airmen and has
just received his wings. Ruddy-haired
daughter Esther is working in Doctor"
Shield’s hospital in Park-lane.
Mrs. James, of the Overseas Club, is off
to England on September 27. Her two sons
are fighting in France, and mother feels she
wants to be as close as possible.
The John Madden dame has< emerged
triumphantly from the operating theatre,
but will not leave her private hospital for
a few weeks yet. John was a very anxious
man for days, and all the Cliveden Mausion-
ites were subdued until the hospital signalled
“All’s well.”
Ashmead Bartlett’s insolvency suggests
that all the lovely clothes that made him
such a vision on the platform may have
been bought on credit. The women in the
audiences could scarcely listen to his lec-
tures : they only wanted to admire the
Family Herald cut of him.
St. Ivilda now has a bachelor mayor—
Henry Florian Barnet. Thrice had the shy
but energetic Hebrew refused the fussy
office; but when General Hughes, who is a
councillor, too, ordered out the ambulance to
have himself carried to the chamber, so
that the fourth appeal might be a full-
strength effort, Barnet surrendered, blushing
vividly.
Yarra Glen and Lilydale amuse them-
selves with their Hunt Club races this
week-end. Neighbor Melba will be the chief
decoration.
Lieut. Richard Fitz Gerald went out last
week in France. Every Melbourne theatre-
goer knew this soldier by his familiar stage
name of “Max Clifton.” He played first
with J.C.W. companies and afterwards took
handsome hero parts at the King’s for Bill
Anderson.
Family-solicitor Rupert Wilks, whose
beautiful middle name is do Courcy, has
once more accepted the thankless task of
mayoring Malvern. Thankless indeed when it
is considered that, though State Government
House stands within a stone’s-throw of the
council chamber, all that the municipality
e\er sees of their Hexes is when they
arrive (civic welcome on the city hall
steps, address and bokay) and depart
(civic farewell and bokay). As for the
pallid Rupert’s job, though he is no
speaker, he manages to do the usual flag-
waving at social and political gatherings
without visible distress, while Mrs. Mayoress
is a pleasant, grey-haired body with a nice
taste in things for the cupboard.
Like 50,000 other women whose names are
never mentioned, Mrs. Pearce, the Minis-
ter’s wife, is very busy these days. Her
“bit” eons'sts of visiting military hospitals
and rest-1 omes. Her latest interest is the
new home for consumptive soldiers at
Mac Leod —a beautiful spot in the hills
be.voud Heidelberg. There the inmates have
every comfort; the institution flows with
milk, honey and medicine, and hens oblig-
ingly lay their eggs in haystacks near the
back door.
Mrs. Arthui Kennedy, of Oakwood Park,
Dandenong, has the felicity of calling the
cable a what-d’you-mean. It reported the
death of her A.I.F. captain some time ago.
Since the announcement, however, Mrs.
Kennedy has had a letter from her husband,
who wasn’t killed in the slightest—only
wounded in the foot and taken off by the
Huns.
Sister Adelaide’s weekly confession:—
The latest money-making scheme, with the Red
Cross and Mine Sweepers’ Fund as its prot&gt-es, and
Miss Edith Young and Miss Effie Ferguson as its
organiser?, is “a sale of children’s clothes” at
Rut liven Mansions. It was more than its title
suggested. There were sweets and cakes and flowers
and flower baskets, nursery pictures and home-made
toys, and fancy boxes and silk bags indescribable.
And exquisite stitchery, of course. Miss d’Erlanger
was well enough again to make it possible for Lady
Galway to leave Government House and be at the
opening ceremony, and for the two days that the sale
was open business was brisk.
Talking of funds reminds me that the Caf6
Chantant harvested nearly £7OO for the French Red
Cross, of which only £ 40-odd must come off for
exes.
Saturday’s return to Morphettville for the races
produced an early rash of spring fashions—very
rash, some of them —and a few fat dividends. In
the Hurdle Race 11. P. McLachlan’s Islam gave his
backers £59 14s. for £l. There was a dog show,
too, that day and two deputations and a police
court and no end of 'other allurements.
The Horwoods of Broken Hjll have had news that
their son, who left here in May, 1915, and has since
been in Gallipoli and France, has won a military
medal. It was only last week they heard he had
got his commission—on his twentieth birthday.
From England comes news of the engagement of
Emily Reynell to Lieut. J. W. Walters, King's Shrop-
shire Light Infantry. The marriage is to be soon. Miss
Reynell, who was in England when war began, has
been busy with the V.A.D.’s ever since. Her
younger brother, a doctor and one-time Rhodes
Scholar, who has been toiling behind the lines since
France ceased to be a health resort, was married
only a few months ago.
Harry Bickford lias presented an armed aeroplane
to the War Office, and given orders for a motor-
ambulance to be handed over to the local military.
The stream of passengers to England grows. Most
of them 1 have soldier sons whom they hope to see.
Bayfield Moulden and Mrs. D. 11. Cudmore are
amongst the last to go.
Archdeacon Colin Campbell, who was here as
tutor to the little Kintores, died at Feltwell Rectory,
Norfolk, the other day. His father was a colonel
in the 60th Rifles at the time of the Indian Mutiny.
A new capitalist has dawned on our horizon. The
papers give him the novelistic name of Vincent A.
Zed, and say in an awe-struck tone that he has made
a fortune “in the South-East” in the last five years.
Anyway, he has taken over the properties bought
(or thereabouts) by Paul Joseph, and proposes cheer-
fully to live at Montefiore (the late Chief Justice
Way’s home), and use the foundations of the
City Temple that-was-to-be for a coffee-palace. And
Mr. Zed produces real money, too, which is more
than did the sanguine Joseph.
Lieut. Arthur Gepp, killed in France, was only
20 when the end came. During his last year at
Prince Alfred he led the South Aus. candidates in an
entrance examination to Duntroon. Only one other
examinee in the whole Commonwealth headed him.
Gepp was a cousin of the South Aus. Rhodes scholar,
Henry Brose, who had the bad luck to be holidaying
in Germany at the outbreak of war, and was
marched into an internment camp, where he still is.
“Rosna,” writing from London, tells me
that publisher John Murray’s son, who is a
major these times, is engaged to Helen,
youngest daughter of the Brasseys. Bride-
to-be is the only child of the second wife and
wears de Vere as a second name. The groom-
elect, who served at Gallipoli, was invalided
home from there and is now convalescent.
Marjorie Jeffries, daughter of Alderman
Jeffries, is telling everybody about her
engagement now. For a time the secret was
only given out on trams by her closest
friends; but those days are over. The
lucky young man has just arrived at Salis-
bury Plains Camp in England. He is
Lieutenant Itowe, of the A.S.C.
Like sister Lena and many other women
who have sacrificed their kitehen-and-pantry
careers to follow the prosaic occupation of
platform-singing, Mary Conly has grown—
well, she has grown—in the pursuit of high
C. Still, it is possible to be brilliant though
abundant, and Mary proved it at Melbourne
Orchestral Society’s concert last week. The
affair was a result of Melba’s remark regard-
ing the musical malnutrition of Melbourne,
and mostly consisted of a square feed of
Beethoven and Grieg, with side dishes of
Sibelius and Jarnefelt and a couple of suc-
culent snacks by Percy Grainger. Mary
Conly’s contribution was a Beethoven aria.
The audience, making appreciative noises,
stayed until the end of the meal and wore
quite a well-fed look when it left.
Pergolesi’s “Stabat Mater” will be given
with full orchestral accompaniment by
Melba’s pupils on Thursday evening, Sep-
tember 14, at the New Assembly Hall, in
Collins-street. It is the 148 rd students’
concert the Oonservatorium has blessed. And
what has b“oi mo of the shrieks of yesterday?
The Repertory Club party on Friday
afternoon is to be a gorgeous affair. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme and sister-in-law Mrs.
Oswald are to be the hostesses, and Sara
AH good and the other Peg o’ My Hearties
have promised to attend.
The postponed Pageant of Countries will
happen in The Playhouse when the Novem-
ber races are raging, starting probably on
Derby night. The costumes are said to be
gorgeous.
Professor Osborne is to read a paper on
“The Goethe Legend” on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 27. If you don’t want to find your-
self amongst the brainstormers and the in-
evitable “discussion,” keep away from the
Repertory Club at eight o’clock.
Maurice Farkoa has died in England.
Maurice was the tuneful Frenchman with a
wisp of white in his black hair who ap-
peared in the short but merry season with
comedian George Huntley. He left only a
few of the many thousands he made while
he was the rage in London. Lovesick
maidens doted on him at a distance, but
among the women of the musical-comedy
world he was noted for never making love
except as a matter of stage duty.
The G.-G. duly opened the exhibition of
Mather’s pictures in the upper room of the
Athenaeum and spoke feelingly of the late
artist, who had been his friend and bailed
from the same part of Scotland. Then his
Ex. caused a red label to be gummed on
“The Bush Track at Fernshaw” for old
times’ sake.
The Arts and Crafts are at it again. On
Friday they had a Jug Day, when all sorts
of locally-made pottery was shown. Some-
body demonstrated clay-throwing on a
potter’s wheel, and somebody else showed
how to model.
Another sign of these moving times has
been erected at Brighton by the C. of E.
Diocesan Mission —a Babies’ Home, where
no candidate for admission is to be barred
owing to the absence of relatives. It is
to be run by experienced sisters on up-to-
date principles, of which No. I is a well-
ventilated milk supply.
The committee dames of a suburban cr&che
were thrilled the other morning by the arri-
val of one of their regular clients clad in a
gorgeous fur coat. As it seemed a bit thick
for fur-coated charladies to use an institu-
tion intended for the hard-up, the social in-
telligence department started on the trail
and found that the charlady’s street had
pooled its cash for the purchase of one fur
coat, which was to be worn in turn by the
various subscribers!
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


u. - A
’'"’"“'a
'*l
< - ///=
lv>-v •- :' * ■':/:■■■ >•",.
S* ' '"
■■■
ifilflHnHS
BnMlHiaaMiiMligl |
m
K
Cj
; : I
t oil
■ :%
7i
f■/ < : ii®||ll!ll 111 lit if j&fiHH
&‘!lm : is ■ •
iillim
tm
\\\
/\
' :
«
'■•:- . "
i\ v * >m /!
,'lv' JttM
v >v ~ •?-*• -* •» * m \ \ %
Sfi : ' W
M
*&/ * »
kk 1 %fwrJSmm JBF \
II I WmiM
it jr-‘.
® ■!111981 ;: '.j>". <i:jfe
\ V
MBR -. /
cygsssSs. * v>. % - v-=,x. <
?cv-
X
1
.- ■
s£>X%?V\.." .
*
;.
\>
®NVVv
sx
x- ;
f 1
*
m
w \
m
*£m
m
'I
?3I
As
■Vi \| mv. \v -f /
i®v\' \ *
1 xA IVW*
v vIX-.A '"Vj V
) K
m
• ;.. :
4”
’i - *
mk.
ifwst
mmm :
Grand Duke Nicholas
Cammandpt* - in * Chip/'
of the Russian Army,
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
THE above reproduced portrait drawing of Grand Duke Nicholas, Ccmmander-in-Chtef ofMthe
Russian Army, is one of a series of Twelve Present Day Men who are Makers of History. The
series, specially drawn for us by W. Jar dine, have been reproduced on the finest art paper,
and retain the freshness and technique of the original drawings, and, being entirely tree
from advertising, are suitable for framing. We will be pleased to forward the complete set
to any address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt of € d. in postage stamps to cover
cost of mailing, etc. Owing to a limited number of these sets, we advise you to write early to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Bromley House. Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
N? lO
WH
I


Keep up
Your Strength
by taking ”
Angier’s Emulsion promotes appetite,
soothes and strengthens the organs of
digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up strength. Its tonic, invigor-
ating influence makes it of special value
for nervous debility and all " run-down ”
conditions. It is a very real help in
preventing and correcting digestive troubles
and restoring proper tone to a’l the
digestive functions. Angier’s Emulsion is
pleasant to take and is absolutely harmless.
It is endorsed by the medical profession.
FREE TRIAL
BOTTLE.
?®" d ” an !? and address. 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
gier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7, Barrack Street, Sydney,
o
1
‘King
(JeorgelV
WHISKY
»
ABSOLUTELY IT
The TOPNOTCH Scotch
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Bumnyong”: There’s a pub in Grafton
(N.S.W.) whose sign is “Stroll Inn.’’ After I had
sampled the beer I wondered why the place wasn’t
crowded.
IN THE FOREFRONT.
OLD GENT. : “I hear your son is displaying great ability as a footballer, Mrs. McLusky.”
MRS. McLUSKY: "Sure, an' he's hopin' to be picked for next year's team as wan of the
drawbacks."
“Dead Finish”: “Barcoo” (B. 27/7/’l6)
should plug up some of the holes in his hat when
he says that nearly everyone in Queensland is install-
ing electric shearing gear. There has not been one
such installation within the last three years in the
North. Undoubtedly the electric should be the best,
but until we produce electricians who are both
competent and willing to go into the back country,
owners of jumbucks will stick to the friction gear.
The trouble in getting men who understand the elec-
tric plant is a hundredfold more than in getting
experts for the older machine.
* * * •
“Try Fluke”: Can South Sea or Malay
fishermen lick this Maoriland big-net record? Old
To Pokiha, better known as Major Pox, the tattooed
and be-medalled boss man of the Maori kainga of
Maketu, Bay of Plenty, bequeathed among his fam-
ilv treasures for preservation by the tribe a huge
fishing-net made of raw flax just over 1700
yards in length and 30 feet in width. With all its
stone sinkers and ropes it weighed nearly four tons,
and when it was put into the water it required the
whole man and woman power of the tribe to haul it.
the ancient brother had it composed in preparation
for a big tribal feast, and the first haul was some-
thing for fish-loving Tangata Maori to remember.
It panned out 20,000 kahawai , besides sharks galore
and stingarees no end. It took more than 200
Maketuters, in canoes and ashore, to round up
that shoal of kahawai and get the net ashore. It
was so grand a net that it was even given a name
of its own, to wit, “Puku-nui,” meaning “Big
Belly. Last time I heard of “Puku-nui” he, she
or it was stored in a big whare at Taheke, on Lake
Rotoiti.
— * * * *
F.N.T. : Frank Allan, who for many
years was Victoria’s chief vermin-inspector, and has
been the most persistent advocate of the apple-and-
strychmne idea for killing rabbits, finds that he has
to get out of the chimney-corner to argue with people
w o declare that native birds have suffered severely
thiough eating baits. Allan claims that he has done
for rabbits by the million, and in all his career has
found only two dead parrots and one dead magpie
beside the apple-trail. The Allan method of rabboli-
tion is to spill unpoisoned apple-cubes along a furrow
for bunny to eat and “get the habit.” Same proce-
dure for the next two or three nights. Then the
cubes are strychnined, and bunny has his final meal.
The main point is to see that enough apple is given
tj feed the whole “herd” and leave a little over. The
result will be that in the last guzzle every animal
will get all that’s coming to him. It is a thorough
and ingenious scheme, but it seems remarkable that
native birds which would ordinarily eat apples should
know more than Bill Rabbit when it comes to sam-
pling the strychnined offering.
* * *
“Bindieye”: “Sassafras” has either had
the bad luck to get hold of useless mokes or else he
does not know his subject when he says the Aus-
tralian horses of to-daj' are not equal to those of the
old days. I have a pony mare, about hands,
that in one day in January, 1914, I drove in a sulky
with two men in it from Young to Frogmore
(N'.S.W.) and back, a distance of 95 miles, with the
thermometer in the neighborhood of lOOdeg. in the
shade. And I alone am 16st. 41b. We were back at
Young before seven o’clock in the evening, and the
mare was none the worse for the trip. She was stable-
fed and working every day, and is still working.
“Rag”: Ivangaroo-rat grilled on the coals
is as delectable as any tucker the Australian bush
affords. Don’t bother to skin the beast. Simply
hold it over the fire until the heat distends the car-
case and all fur is burnt off; then eviscerate, and
wash the body and put it, dissected into four parts,
on the coals.
INAUDIBLE.
THE LANDLADY: “ Isn’t your soup to your liking ?”
THE NEW BOARDER: “It is very nice, Madam."
THE LANDLADY: “Well, I didn’t hear you enjoying it.”
“D.F.”: The fungus mentioned by “N. or
M ” ( B - 10/8/’l6) as a specialty of the Tasmanian
beech forests also attaches itself to the closely-
related beeches of the bottom end of South America.
If it isn’t the same fungus it has a strong family
resemblance, and, like the beeches themselves, it is
one of the arguments in favor of the theory that
Shackleton could have walked all the way from
Buenos Aires to Hobart if he had started soon
enough. The natives of Tierra del Fuego eat the
fungus in plural quantities, but I never heard of
anyone trying it as a titbit in the Speck.
* * * *
“Nil : About this “homing instinct.” It
is an instinct, of course, and like all instincts
depends upon certain co-ordinated nerve reflexes.
Most animals have it —one may say all, in varying
degrees. Humans have it—as a rule in direct pro-
portion as they revert to the primordial type. I
have it. Civilised men have it also, but mostly
to such a small extent that it is not to be demon-
strated. Now and then one meets a human who in
this respect is a throwback, and retains his
pure reflexes uninterfered with by conscious reason-
ing. Now, as to one theory regarding the nerve
mechanism. In the make-up of the internal ear are
—on either side of the head—three so-called “semi-
circular canals.” If you take two little stiff-bound
books and open them to a right angle and place
them on the table in front of you so that their
heelings are opposed to one another and are per-
pendicular, and so that the hinder part of the right
book is parallel with the fore part of the left book,
you will have a very good schema of the position
and relation of the “semi-circular canals’’ in the
head. It is not quite accurate, but ’twill serve.
If the table were hinged in the middle and doubled
up fore and aft, like the roof of a house at a low
pitch, it would be more correct. Imagine that each
of the planes of each book and also each plane of
the table, or “roof,” contains an almost circular
canal, and that the three right-hand ones join at
the point represented by the Jowest part of the
heeling of the right book, and that the same
arrangement applies to the left-hand system, and
that these tubes are filled with a mobile fluid and
supplied with nerve-ends to take note of and inform
the subconscious brain of every movement of the
fluid. Now, when the head moves to any extent in
any plane or direction, the aforesaid brain has a
corresponding impression and registers the same.
The rest you see for yourself. Given a starting
point at rest, after twisting and turning for any
length of time the brain unconsciously works out a
surveyor’s “traverse,” and the sum of directions—
the “bee-line”—is established. By simply reversing
the direction and keeping straight on the individual
will eventually reach its starting point. In the
same way adjustments will be made for any neces-
sary deviations on the homeward journey. I thought
this out 35 years ago. It is probably rot. But a
German professor rediscovered it later: so perhaps it
is not.
“Eryander”: Malay blood is not confined
to the S.E. coast of Papua (B. 17/8/’l6). In the
N. W. corner are non-Papuan peoples whose ancestors
certainly crossed from the Moluccas. The people of
Salwatti Island and the Sampson River country are
light brown in. color and straight of hair, and speak
what is practically Moluccan Malay. From Mount
Nusa Hali, in the island of Ceram, can be seen the
coast of Onin, the people of which, though their
tongue is three-parts Papuan, are Mohammedan in
religion and entirely Ceramese in appearance. Fur-
ther south, in the Baaik district, I was ethnologi-
cally knocked out by finding a people who, though
physically identical with the Minahassans of north-
ern Celebes, spoke a dialect like that of the west-
Bornean Dyaks. “Papua,” by the way, is itself a
Malay word, best rendered in English by “frizzy.”
“A neb”: A word to confirm “Ojo” (B.
10/8/ 1G) that agricultural and pastoral shows
throughout Horstralia are conducted in a very casual
manner by the judges. Even at a late Melbourne
Show a grey animal was exhibited, and won prizes
in the following classes: Lady’s hack, heavyweight
hack, lady s hunter, heavyweight hunter, lightweight
hunter, and lady’s horse over hurdles. Dinizulu, 30-
odd stone, on the back of a 14-hand Basuto pony,
didn't look more ridiculous than a lady going to
hounds on top of a heavyweight hack. Harness
classes were funnier, if possible. In the single
buggy-horse class—perhaps the most genuine Aus-
tralian utility animal—the beast was tied into con-
veyances that varied from a family double-seater to a
spider-wheeled pneumatic-tyred vehicle that would
have been luxury to a Colombo rickshaw-puller.
Definition wanted: What’s a buggy at an A. and P.
show? And when will the judge for hunters be
competent to place the horses after one exhibition
of jumping the course? The idea of jumping the few
best until some make a mistake is unfair—chiefly to
the judge whose incompetence is exposed to the bulk
of the onlookers.
* * * *
“Toby Collins”: Advise “Taurua” (B.
3/8/’l6) to try the following' on his aquatic bull.
Fasten stout leather or metal collars round the fore
and aft fetlocks on the same side, run a strong side-
line between, adjust same to cause a shortened
stride, and make fast. This will not only stop his
Majesty from swimming over the river to spoon with
the neighboring girls, but should any of them ven-
ture to call at his private address to reproach him
they’ll have to be content with a helping of glad
eyes and promises.
(Continued on page 24J
A SONG OF YANKO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, Devil-may-care for the Wanderlust,
For Wanderlust and me;
Oh, Devil-may-care for the Wanderlust,
In the days when we both are free
To wander at will by the salt sea sand,
Or climb where the mountains pile ;
For I have a home in the Western Land,
Three Hundred and Sixty Mile.
Oh, Devil-may-care for the Wanderlust,
The Wanderlust and I,
While we can drink in the city depths
We knew in the days gone by,
And drink to the depths of the days we knew,
Every once in a while;
For I have a home in the Western Land,
Three Hundred and Sixty Mile.
When my soul grows sick of the cares of State,
Of the just and the most unjust,
When I weary awhile of the hens and pigs
I go with the Wanderlust;
We go by “sleeper” and first saloon,
And we do the thing in style;
For I have a home in the Western Land,
Three Hundred and Sixty Mile.
When the fruit is sold and the verse is sold
And the money’s been paid away,
And there’s none to borrow for half a year,
We worry it out for a day.
(For “the Wanderlust” is a mate named Jim,
And Jim is a rare old file;
And we both have homes in the Western Land,
Three Hundred and Sixty Mile.)
Then we take the gun and the lines and leave
The pumpkins and corn to grow;
And we take our swags and we take the track
Where the western rivers flow ;
We shear a bit if we’re feeling fit
Just to help the billies to bile
And the oven to bake and the pans to fry
At Three Hundred and Sixty Mile.
There’s a rose-colored rose by the eastern porch,
The last of the winter there
(They die ere the summer can come to scorch
All things that are fresh and fair) ;
But the channels shall fill and the fields and farms,
In spite of the drought shall smile,
Where I have a home in the Western Land,
Three Hundred and Sixty Mile.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Hibernian Society’s Secret recommends
BEAN’S ESSENCE
Great MONEY-SAVING REMEDY for
COUGHS,
CROUP,
COLDS,
CATARRH,
and other Chest and Throat Troubles
Mr. P. O’LOUGHLIN, District Secretary of the
Hibernian A. C. B. Society, and of the Hibernian
Society’s Annual Art Union, adds his meed of praise :
Hibernian Buildings,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
24/8/’l6.
The Proprietor, Hean’s Essence, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —
In the course of conversation with a few friends
recently, the subject of colds, sore throats and other
ailments between the head and chest was introduced
into a discussion on such matters. I was, at the time,
suffering from a very severe cold, and could hardly use
my voice beyond a whisper. One of my friends, noting
my condition, advised me to take Hean’s Essence (which
I did) and I must say the effect was instantaneous.
The first dose gave relief, and one bottle effected a
complete cure. I have determined that for the future
Hean’s Essence shall have a permanent place in my
home. Since my own experience I have recommended it
with equal success to many of my friends.
I remain,
■ .Yours sincerly,
P. O’LOUGHEIN.
'NnnonoiiO v 'tm
Over 2000 other users of Hean’s Essence have written in similar strain.
COSTS
2/-
Each bottle produces a pint of superior-
quality mixture. A pint of ready-made
remedies would cost at least l£s. HEAN’S
ESSENCE costs only 2s. Money cannot buy
a better Medicine.
SAVES
10/-
Obtainable from Chemists and Stores, or from the manufacturer,
G. W HEAN, Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BEAN’S COUGH DIAMONDS
(Medicated with
Heap’s Essence),
are made for those who do not
need a large supply of mixture.
l®~They Cost 9J. per dox.
Leviathan Riding Trousers
Breeches
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
0 2 0. RIDING
BREECHES, Ready-to-
wear in Blown Cotton
Saddle Twist. Best Eng-
lish make, with deep Self
Strappings; buttoned or
laced at knees; Fob and
Cross Pockets. Doubly
Stitched. Taped Seams.
Cut full for Saddle Comfort.
Will launder splen-
didly. Sizes 3to 7,
13,6
Also, Ready-to-wear in Khaki
Garbicord ; laced at knees ;
Self strapped.
English make ...
18/6
TAILOR MADE TO
ORDER, in Khaki Drill,
21/-; Khaki Drill Cord or
Canton Mole, 27/6; Whip-
cord or Twist Tweed, 40/-;
Bedford Cord, 45/- P«’ pair.
Self strapped, 5/. extra.
Buckskin Strapped, 18/6 extra.
ASK FOR FREE SAMPLES.
m
C2O
C2J
C2l. JUDHPORE RIDING TROUSERS —-Ready-to-wear in Grey Garbicord ; Self
strapped; cross pockets and tape l tying bottoms. A style that combines Riding
Trousers and Breeches. All sizes. Wonderful value. Order a pair by post....
10/6
TAILORED TO ORDER. In Khaki Drill or Garbicord, 22/6; Drab Beaver or White
Canton Moleskin, 27/6; Bedford Cord or Saddle Tweed, 37/6; 'Vest of England Saddle
Tweed, and White or Cream Bedford Cord, 45 /-; Self strapped,. 5/ - extra. Buckskin
Strapped, 13/6 extra.
RIDING TROUSERS. Ready-to-wear in Khaki or Olive Drill; strongly made.
With side straps and loops for belt. Ready-to-wear
7/6
Also Ready-to-wear in Dark Grey Leather Tweed —the toughest of tough materials.
Riveted buttons. Denim pockets, and non-split seat seam. All sizes
10/6
TAILORED TO ORDER, In Khaki Drill, 15/6; Khaki Drill Cord, 18/6; Canton
Mole, 21/-; Whipcords or Twist Tweeds, 27/6; Bedford Cords, 32/6; Self strapped,
5/- extra; Buckskin strapped, 13/6 extra.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE PATTERNS, TAPE AND HOME-MEASURE-
MENT CHART.
WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK.
The LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
HERE. IS AN ENGINE
that contains just the features you would build into
an engine if you were constructing it yourself.
'Engineers from Every Part of Australia pronounce it the Most Practical Construction Ever Achieved.
QUALITY for QUALITY
we do not know of an engine on the
market to-da} r in the class of this
COOPER
New Improved Model
that can be purchased for even livice the
price we are asking.
The Exhaust Valve, Ignition and Oil
Pumps are all operated by one Cam. The
speed can be increased or decreased
instantly without stopping. The Ignition
is free from all complications, and the
engine can be started up without turning
the fly-wheels. Every individual size has
been thoroughly studied and constructed
to give the best results under the actual
\\u-l::'r\" conditions for which it is
intended.
: : :
Write us to-day. Give us the size Engine you require, or the work you have to do,
and wo will send you price and full particulars by return mail.
rOOPER ENGINEERING CO. LIMITED,
134 Sussex St., Sydney. 480 Collins St., Melbourne. Hughenden, Queensland.


IGGITTS
UNSEEO oilmen
B
V, ' V<^CTOOt<>
/AECGITT L T . D
PARRAMATTA
(3 ka
FARMERS!
Feed your
MILKERS,
CALVES,
PIGS, *
HORSES,
POULTRY,
on one ration per
day of
MEGGITTS
Linseed Oil
Meal.
Full particulars write
,v Meggitt Ltd.
Parramatta,
New South Wales.
CASTOR OIL, SALTS * DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Itefuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. ftd. [3
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
<I»A Is’a
V
& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The famous Remedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
,c- oo<> strand. London.
START BUSINESS YOURSELF.
We supply Fancy Goods, Post Cards, Drapery, Tobac-
conists, Stationery, Jewellery, Id., 3d. and 6d. Bazaar
Goods, Toys, Confectionery, Cutlery, etc. Sample
cases ,C 5 upwards sent by return. Guide Catalogue,
“Success in Business,” 3d.
H. Michaels & Son,
14-15 Cromwell House, High Holborn,
London, W. 0., England. [x
“Eddyson”: A marriage ceremony went
to pieces at Tinbiddy (Vic.) the other day as a
result of the bridegroom neglecting to haste to the
wedding. Walter Walters was to have been welded
in the bonds with Miss Virginia Street, and Virginia
was at the appointed place bright and early, wearing
veil and sprays, and pa and ma supported
her, while her brother Tom attended to see fair play.
The performance was advertised for half-past 11.
At that hour Walter was horribly conspicuous by
his absence. At a quarter to 12 his failure to par-
ticipate was agonisingly obvious. At 12 he was
still flagrantly elsewhere, and at half-past 12 his
detention in parts unknown was a crying shame.
Virginia was having energetic hysterics in a pew
and brother Tom was inviting the clergyman to
register his terrible vows of vengeance. At a quarter
to one Chadwill, who was to have been the best
man, raced in, covered with dust, and intimated
that he had been rushing up and down since 10
a.m. and had failed to locate Walters. The bridal
party loaded itself into Samson’s American waggon
and drove home. Chadwell appears to have spent
nine hours on the run, hunting Walter Walters,
before he succumbed to exhaustion, and then there
was quiet in'Tinbiddy. One hour and a half later,
when Finn and Farawav’s film entertainment was
progressing in a neighboring township called Cat
Hill, a disturbance arose with the suddenness of a
flight of bombs. Somewhere in the darkness a man
was trying to get in and meeting resistance.
“Lemme in!” he howled. “Lemme in! Whar yeh
mean keepin’ a man from his own weddin’ ? Lo, the
(hie) bri’groom cometh. Lemme in! Can’t yeh
leraman get married ? Poo poo poo ho poo ho!”
He roared a bar of the “Wedding March,” and
charged the doorkeeper again. This time the dis-
turbing element broke down the foe’s resistance, and
he streamed into the hall, whooping in the darkness.
“Here I am!” he shouted. “Wheresh me bonny
bride? Wheresh the (hie) objec’ of me ’fections?
Pompom pompom pompom!” Another slab of
the “Wedding March,” and then the misguided
stranger grabbed a lady. “ ’Sail ri’,” he cried. “I
gorrer ! On wither weddin’! Lerrergo!” The lady
screamed, and then, to facilitate the capture of the
disturber of the peace, lights were introduced, which
disclosed the rabid unknown embracing the middle-
aged spouse of a prominent citizen of Cat Hill. The
man looked ’ amazedly at the matron in his arms for
a few oppressive seconds. Then he said: “Ellen-
tommy! I gorrer wrong bride.” He dropped the
lady and looked about him in sore perplexity.
“Wha’s more,” he muttered, “I’m in the wrong
church!” They led him out. He threw an eye over
the moonlit landscape. “Why, isser wrong town!”
ho said. It was Walter Walters, the missing bride-
groom.
“Professional Gardener”: Anyone who
recommends that Australia grow no wheat for one
season in order to get rid of wdieat rust knows little
of the parasite (B. 3/8/’l6). I am with Massee, of
London University, who thinks that the fungus is in
the first of three distinct periods of growth when it
is found on wheat. It also attacks other plants, and
takes on different colors and forms, and in some
cases is difficult to recognise. On apple and pear
trees it is “black spot”; on lemons and oranges,
“collar rot”; in apricot, “shot hole fungus”; on
carnations and sweet peas it is the same as that on
pears and apples. But it comes to maturity only on
the well-known Darwini and other species of the
Berberis plant. Here the rust blooms and fruits and
then broadcasts its seeds into the atmosphere, to be
brought down on to various vegetation by the fine,
misty rains of November. My remedy is to wipe
out the Berberis plant that harbors the nuisance.
THE JEALOUSY OF THE MUSICIAN.
LOCAL PRAICHER: “ Wha’s 'ee think dv my
sermon this morning, Billy?"
BASSER BILL (member of the choir):
“ Nothin’ ’t all! Just as I wuz lickin’
me lips for the last verse in the ninth
hymn, thee went and bellered out, ‘Plaze
omit verse foorteen'."
“Warre”: Horses gnaw the bark off trees
for the same reason that cows chew bones and sheep
feast on defunct rabbits—to satisfy the craving for
phosphates. When one considers the enormous weight
of bone, flesh and wool, representing largely 'calcium
phosphate (or phosphate of lime), which has been
THOUGHT THEY WOULD NEVER GO.
JONES (to couple planted outside his back
fence): “Say, old man, ask the milkman
to leave an extra pint, will you?"
taken from the Australian soil during the last cen-
tury without an effort being made to restore the
loss, it is a miracle that the bovines and ovines, in
their hunt for bone essentials, do not eat the dam-
phool landowners. Let “The Hum” (B. 10/8/’l6)
try a little bonemeal in his moke’s tucker and note
results. The wheat cookies of Australia use nearly
£1,500,000 of imported phosphates every year, and
export it all, or nearly all, in wheat. Yet four-fifths
of the total phosphates in wheat is contained in the
bran and pollard which could be kept here as a
stand-by in drought times if we gristed our wheat
and exported the flour.
* * * #
“E.T.”: A horse belonging to a farmer at
Serpentine (Vic.) was recently posted missing. It
had not been seen for nearly a week. Then a vigilant
search was made, and it was discovered standing
upright beneath, and supporting the full weight of, a
straw stack which had blown over it during a gale.
The unfortunate moke had been buried for five days
and six nights; but though it was a little weak and
almost blind for a time it soon recovered and has
resumed work.
* * * *
“Stapleton”: Someone was asking for the
size of “Big Ben,” killed at Yaamba Creek in the
’7o’s. Brunton Stephens, in his elegy on the death
of Ben, says:—
Just over Capricorn
This same Big Ben was born,
A feeble lizard.
But with the years came strength,
And twenty feet of length,
The most part gizzard.
Is that evidence? Or must we make allowance for
the fact that “27ft. lOJip.” wouldn’t have fitted
nicely into a line?
“Cripps Clark” : In c ~"
evolution of bush fences “Werri»tnai‘ks on the
omits any mention of the calico fenc (B. 24/8/’l6)
ence of it was enough for me. Some yex)ne experi-
in charge of 10,000 wethers running bo I was
country near Cassilis (N.S.W.), which carriemted
grass coarse enough to cut into Yankee chaff, w
sheep used to make for a stretch of burnt country
where there was always
soft green picking after a
shower of rain. But the
owner of the run objected,
and persuaded my new-
chum manager to put up a
light fence around the
burnt country. In due
course the light fence
arrived from Sydney in
the form of two miles of
single-width calico. A
couple of grinning station-
hands drove stakes into
the ground about 14ft.
apart, tacked the calico
on to them and left me to
boundary-ride the horror.
After every westerly gale,
and they were frequent,
most of my time was
spent in climbing trees to
disentangle the fence from
the branches. Cows are
notoriously fond of calico,
and more than once I had
to sprint after an old
milker and haul a few
yards of my fence from
her interior in a more or
less digested condition.
Swaggies 'would sneak up
in the night to cut out a
few panels to make a fly
for a tent and then pass
on to spread the good
tidings. The gaps in that
accursed fenefe increased
steadily and I got tired
of filling them in with
bushes. At last, when I
discovered that all the
coekies for miles around
were sleeping between
sheets and their kids were
prancing around proudly
in new white shirts, I
decided to let the fence
rip. After a while I got
a letter from the new.
chum manager asking me
to report upon his fence.
I reported that it was
greatly admired by the
neighbors, but it was too
light to keep the sheep
back. Thereupon he wired:
“What do you recom-
mend ?” To which I re-
plied with a collect wire:
“Local experts agree that
the fence is satisfactory
for summer months, but,
as winter is approaching,
strongly recommend two
miles of blankets.” I
don’t know if the recom-
mendation was adopted, as
I wrapped my belongings
in the last panel of the fence and departed.
* * * *
“Mitchell Grass” : Re the lariat on cattle
ranches. After 33 years’ experience on large runs in
Queensland I have come to the conclusion that cattle
which are not yarded and herded as weaners are
difficult to handle at gates, are wild on the run, and
are bad for drovers to handle, especially at the
trucking yard. “Barcoo” (B. 27/8/’l6) says that
Davenport Downs carries 45,000 cattle. I have my
doubts, and I know the place well. The use of the
lariat on distant parts of a run is very useful, but
the best that can be said for its general use is that
it is cheap.
* * * *
“Splodger”: Jonesmith was a good talker,
who loved his own voice. One of his favorite tricks
was to pause at the critical moment and say:
“Gentlemen I I hope I do not bore you ?” The
proper response, of course, being, “No, nol Go onl”
This time he was spellbinding a bar-parlor, and was
letting himself go on Anecdote No. 724 when he
paused and sounded: “Gentlemen! I hope I do not
bore you?” The man in the corner caught his eye.
“Oh, no!” he yawned. “Anything to pass the time
away 1” ,
* * * *
“D.F.”: People will tell you that a good
many of our native berries are poisonous, but I have
eaten pretty well all that grow in the Speck and
most mainland ones, and I haven’t been measured for
a coffin yet. Maybe some of them would not be good
as a steady diet, but that kind are not very attrac-
tive specimens as tucker, anyway. There is a legend
that the big bell-shaped blue berry, which the botan-
ists call fabillardieria for short, is particularly
deadly. It is pretty wooden, but I haven’t found it
poisonous. About the only really satisfying edible
fruits in the Tasmanian bush are the native
cherry, the cranberry (which is good but mostly
stone), the wild raspberry, the berry of the Mac-
quarie Harbor vine (much like a miniature passion-
fruit), and perhaps the wild currant, though most
people don’t like its flavor.
“Dux”: A dozen wharfies had just lifted
their pints and were in the act of raiding the
counter-lunch when Joe, of the Carbine Stables, blew
in, and, taking in at a glance the team of pot-and-
lunch champions, cried cheerily: “Going to have one,
boys?” It sounded for all the world like an invita-
tion to breast the bar, so a dozen pintpots were
quickly hoisted skywards and as smartly banged upon
the counter. “Wish ter Gawd I wasl” concluded
Joe, and ducked out.
BILL’S ALL RIGHT.
RETURNED: “Yes, Mr. Scrub, so the larst I
see of Bill ’e was bein’ taken away tied
to two Turks. But don’t you worry
about ’im!”
MR. SCRUB: “ Worry? I should think not!
I pities the poor bloomin’ Turks as is
tied to our Bill."
THE BATTLE OF PRAWNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The glasses filled themselves, and flew
To quench my thirst; in row on row
They stood in splendor in my view.
I took some seventeen or so,
Until the last one spilled itself
And whispered it was time to go.
iVr-door slammed behind my back,
And, as°d to say that it was rude,
It roused' gzagged in my track,
I would have siP an an S r y moocl ’
I , ! t - «l it, but it dodged
And got away frSE j stoocl .
A theatre walked over me-
lt seemed the only thing to c.
I shook an actor by the hand
Whose evening clothes, somehow, I k., vv . ;
Then took a seat, to hear awhile
A tenor singing, “Oysters two 1”
It seemed the dullest kind of show ;
And so I called an aeroplane.
But, as I sought to make a flight
, Above the white, foam-covered main,
A nasty voice remarked to me:
“You must not do that thing again!”
I stared, amazed, as well I might:
A prawn stared rudely in my face.
I felt the insult, unavenged,
Would be a lasting, dark disgrace;
But as I seized it in my hands
Prawns by the dozen filled the place.
I spilled the table to the floor
As from the mess I struggled free,
And half a dozen shining plates
Went spinning through infinity ;
I swore to fight with any prawn
That dared to lay its hands on me.
The fight was awful and intense;
One hand of mine with gore was wet;
The prawns went down in slaughtered heaps;
The oysters in great piles were set:
And to the man who held me up
I said, “We’ll beat the damned things yet.”
The struggle was of Titans, sure.
One flying missile struck a star,
Which vanished with a crash so loud
We heard it plainly from afar;
And shortly pieces of the smash
Fell, sounding like a breaking bar.
A lobster struck me on the head —-
My head, in fact, is aching still.
I do not feel inclined to fret
At vague remarks about a bill;
But there was blood upon my hand....
Now who, I wonder, did I kill?
N.s.w.
HAMER.


V
v ’<>
'O
HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
AT MODERATE PRICES.
CIGARETTES
THE sale of State Express Cigar-
ettes is ever increasing because
tbe quality is never allowed to de-
crease. Compressed into tbe little
cylinder is tbe best tobacco,
original blending and scientific
manufacture.
No. 333
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
STANDARD WEIGHT
NOT LESS THAN
(Obtainable of all high=class tobacconists and
stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers s
4RDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. London, Eng.
10-6
D.
v~
X
0
*
o
o
w
v
uniwe
\*
*
it
\S± A
<OV
X
X
VX
!* /.oV
cP
-rt
#aa


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
THOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful healing Power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
W"'.
BS
mwJfe
“An Excellent
Preparation.”
r\r.
ii U
m.
Ki
35?
15.
52
c Kmcji ? hiTtt
“ Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at
Sydney, n s w.; Wellington, n.z.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney), wlio
manufacture and deal in builders’ goods:
June. Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1906.. £12,921 6p.c. =£9,900 £3,021 £22,424
1907.. 14,589 7 „ „ 11,550 3,039 25,463
1908.. 16,944 8 ~ „ 13,200 3,744 29,207
1909.. 17,636 8 „ „ 13,200 4,436 33,643
1910.. 14,160 8 „ „ 13,200 960 34,603
Assets written up . • 10,000 44,603
1911.. 16,861 8 p.c. = 13,200 3,661 48,264
1912.. 16,222 8 „ „ 13,200 3,022 61,286
AVritten off leaseholds .. 2,500 48,786
1913.. 14,151 8 p.c. = 13,200 951 49,73,
Freeholds written up .. 10,000 59,737
1914.. 15,123 8 p.c. = 13,200 1,923 61,660
1915.. 13,266 8 „ „ 13,200 66 61,726
1916.. 13,224 8 „ „ 13,200 24 61,750
“The general depression in the building trade
continues and has affected the year’s turn-
over and consequently the profits,” the direc-
tors say. And this is not likely to be merely
transitory. It is not only that the amount
of building will be less for some years to
come than it has been during the artificial
prosperity of the borrowing boom, but prices
will be cut as well. It has been possible to
get almost anything for some classes of tim-
ber during the past few years. Moreover,
there are other things beside the stoppage of
borrowing to affect the building trade. The
Fair Rents Court may not have done much
in giving people cheaper houses to live in;
but it has certainly given builders a feeling
of insecurity. However, Goodlet and Smith
are old hands in this business; they know
that, thanks to our tendency to go on furious
borrowing bursts, the building trade pro-
ceeds by fits and starts, and they have made
arrangements accordingly. They took ad-
vantage of the same boom which made build-
ing brisk to get rid of their excess lands, and
they have also worked down their stock. The
results can be seen in this table: —
1906. 1910. 1914. 1915. 1916.
£ £ £ £ £
Liabilities 90,176 93,552 7,962 7,715 11,112
Properties 100,670 93,670 ]
Machinery & ) 100,274 79,647 66,343
plant, etc. 89,867 89,837 j
Ships . . 2,200 500
Stock .. 62,585 60,497 18,514 16,131 23,501
Cash & book
debts, etc. 32,177 55,251 122,433 145,263 154,619
Thus liabilities have been reduced to next
door to nothing ; and all but £10,381 of the
capital (£165,000) is represented by “sundry
debtors, cash and shares in other cos.,” which
sounds very safe, though a good deal depends
on that item “shares in other cos.”
* * * *
Albxjry Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1909 .. £672 10 p.c. =£375 £297 £2681
Dec., 1909 . . 731 10 „ „ 375 356 3037
June, 1910 . . 779 10 „ „ 375 404 3441
Dec., 1910 .. 719 10 „ „ 375 344 3785
June, 1911 .. 663 10 „ „ 375 288 4073
Dec., 1911 . . 512 10 „ „ 375 137 4210
June, 1912 . . 445 10 „ „ 375 70 4280
Dec., 1912 .. 645 10 „ „ 375 270 4550
June, 1913 . . '6lB 10 „ „ 375 243 4793
Dec., 1913 .. 625 10 „ „ 375 150 4943
June, 1914 . . 401 10 „ „ 375 26 4969
Dec., 1914 . . 577 10 „ „ 375 202 5171
June, 1915 .. 527 10 „ „ 375 152 5323
Dec., 1915 .. 736 10 „ „ 375 361 5684
June, 1916 .. 408 10 „ „ 375 33 5717
Notwithstanding the new municipal competi-
tion the revenue has been fairly well main-
tained ; but costs are higher, and there isn’t
much over to add to plant renewal fund,
which is included with the general reserves
shown above. Also, no doubt on account of
the same competition, the reduction of lia-
bilities which had been in progress has been
stopped, and a bit more debt has. been
incurred for plant. Still the position is
easy:—
June, ’O6. Dec., ’l5. June, ’l6.
Liabilities .. .. £5150 £3190 £3717
Liquid assets .. 1490 2670 2991
Excess liabilities .. £3660 £520 £726
Whether the co. will be able to maintain, the
10 p.c. dividend under the new conditions
depends a good deal on what expenditure the
co. has ahead of it for renewals. For
though liquid assets are nearly £3OOO there
are only a few pounds in cash balances.
* * * *
All the reports on the Austral Bolivia’s
optioned property in S. America being satis-
factory, R. P. Lawrence, the managing-
director, has gone back to the property;
and J. S. Henry, a well-known Austral-
Malay tin-dredger, has left Newcastle for
Valparaiso to take charge of the technical
side of the business.
* * » *
“Exile”: We think the Bendigo pipes
deep at 4000 ft., but • California boasts a
gold producer at a depth of 6300 ft. The
mill is turning out £lB,OOO a month of gold
from a high-grade ore. Shareholders have
received £975,400 in divvies from this North
Star mine. In Nevada at a depth of
8000 ft. the Estelle Co. is driving a tunnel
7400 ft. into the mountain. The present
face is 6900 ft. from the mouth; already
five veins of silver-lead ore have been cut
and three more are expected. The high
price of metals has caused a revival of
mining in Nevada and Arizona, and quick-
silver, antimony, wolfram, zinc and silver-
lead mines long abandoned are being re-
opened. By the way, barytes is being
mined on a big scale, because barium is
the source of an extremely smelly poison-
gas the Allies have begun to use. This
ought to be good news for Tasmanian
holders of barium deposits, who should go
to work and export stink-bearing ore to
Europe.
ip * * *
Burma Corporation, in which most of
Lake View and Oroya’s hopes are centred,
last year estimated ore reserves at 1,310,000
tons containing 19.50 z. silver, 25.2 p.c. lead,
and 21.6 p.c. zinc; now they are calculated
at 2,300,000 tons, assaying 25.40 z. silver,
27.5 p.c. lead and 22.2 p.c. zinc. Recent
developments at Nos. 3 and 4 levels are
declared to have added a further 300,000
tons.
* * * *
South Africa has given German trade
another blow. Prior to the war three-
fourths of the cyanide required for the
treatment of Rand residues was made in
Germany and only one-fourth in Britain.
Now Britain per medium of the Cassel Co.
has a five years’ contract to supply almost
the lot.
Easiness, Robbery, etc.
“Hambidge”: The girl and I bad found a
good place on the beach before I remem-
bered the usual box of chocolates had been
forgotten. It was a good half-mile to the
nearest shop, so I hailed a small boy. “Here,
son, get me a box of chocolates with this
bob, and when you come back I’ll give you
another.” He made off in the direction of
the pier, and we waited an hour, but the
small boy never returned. At last the girl
shook the sand out of her skirts and said it
was time to go. That night the absconder
accosted me on the pier. “Well,” I said,
“do you reckon you’re a sport?” He eyed
me with contempt for a moment. “ ’Struth.”
he said. “Yoit don’t eat chocolates, do yer?”
“No,” I answei'ed. “You knew they weren’t
for me.” “ ’Course I did,” he agreed. “An’
didn't I save yer a bob?”
A Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) railway porter
took up a dozen acres of land, planted
bananas, and last year paid income tax on
£l3OO. If everybody who is now planting
bananas up there realises bis hopes it will
be necessary in five years’ time for every
person in Sydney to consume 11 bananas on
week days and 15 on Sundays.
* * * *
The other day the G.-G. added his mellow
tones to the paean now gradually swelling
in praise of Australian furniture timbers.
A Melbourne firm recently made a suite
from the plebeian stringybark, seasoned at
the State works, and the result was so. hand-
some that Government House was given a
chance to add its delight to the chorus. The
G.-G. let her go in a most generous manner,
declaring that he “had never seen more
beautiful timber.” It all helps.
* * * *
If any member of the U.S.A. Commission
falls over Niagara or chokes himself with
chewing-gum, his family will have something
to remember him by. Each of the picnickers
is to be insured for £5OO, the Government
paj-ing the premiums.
*, * * *
“Wild Cat” note on A.I.P. Co., Unlimited :
Tiie Bulletin hasn’t the space to present the
figures in tabular form. The concern is rather less
than two years old, and has given some notable
results, though the first location of the works was
not a happy choice. After consulting together and
obtaining the best advice the directors finally decided
to get out and make a fresh start elsewhere. The
change of address was accomplished at very slight
cost to the co., and it is now understood that useful
work is being carried on in a district where better re-
sults can be looked for. However, the costs are propor-
tionately higher, and, in order that the co. may not
be hampered in its operations, the Australian direc-
tors are understood to be consulting again with a
view to getting in more capital and providing
adequate reserves. - The present employees of the co.
are anxious to see the scope of the young firm
extended, and are ready to welcome new workers.
The provident fund is in a healthy state, and new
workers coming in participate immediately if they
are unlucky enough to be disabled. The ambulance
arrangements are first-class, and in every respect the
co.’s works are looked upon as amongst the best
equipped in the world. It is understood that a
sufficient amount is written off for depreciation of
plant, and the goodwill, though immensely valuable,
does not appear in the balance-sheet. The A.I.F.
Co. was formed to meet a sudden emergency, and,
though the expenses are enormous, the profits are
expected to be on the same scale. It will not be
possible to estimate the exact return to patriotic
investors until the close of operations—or even for
some considerable time afterwards; But even at this
early stage the visible results of the operations are
amply sufficient to justify the formation and exten-
sion of the co.
* * * *
“Wocher”: Yes, it is terrible the way the
price o’ things is going up. On March 20,
IS4O, in the case Allen v. Eyre, heard at
Adelaide, plaintiff claimed £ISO for food
consumed by Eyre and others at an over-
landers’ ball and supper. Defendant alleged
that he had made a contract for £75. Some
of the items on the bill submitted: —
3 doz. pickled tongues.. £7 16 0
6 hams .. .. . . 7 17 6
6 geese .. .. • .. 6 0 0
16 pigeons .. ..800
24 fowls 8 12 0
12 doz. eggs .. .. 312 0
361 b. butter .. .. 6 0 0
21b. isinglass .. .. 6 0 0
The beak seems to have thought it was all
51 fair thing. Anyhow, he told Eyre to pay
£l5l for the feed.
* * » *
“Warre”: The Wheat Board is doing the
right thing in refusing to accept wheat in
second-hand bags. When the Chapman sack
comes along after a second tilling it has to
be treated with tenderness and care to get
it over even the railway weighbridge. After
that the lumper, possessed of no tine feel-
ings, usually dumps it into the middle of
the stack, where it gives up the ghost and
lets the grain run to earth. But instead of
confining its attention to the sack when it
has done one job, why doesn’t the Board
keep an eye also on the philanthropists who
run the jute business with a view to getting
a decent article in the first place? Some of
last season’s goods were simply disgraceful.
The Maoriland cocky lias a fine commer-
cial instinct. x\fter refusing John Bull’s
good offer of Bd. per lb. for cheese (a price
better than ever he got before the war),
Teatsqueez gathered himself into a crowd
and protested against the increase in freights
charged by the shipping companies, the
ground of protest being that the extra
charges were likely to embarrass the Empire
in the prosecution of the war! Then
Teatsqueez dispersed looking for someone
ready to give an extra £5 an acre for a farm
at Maungawahinekaiponga.
It took an imported architect to realise
the beauty of the Geelong building stone,
and £40,000 worth of it is now being got
out for the new R.C. University buildings
in Melbourne. These were designed, by
W. B. Griffin, the artistic Yankee who isn’t
a bit like the dollar-hunting Yankee.
* * * *
A milkman prosecuted in Melbourne the
other day for watering his goods pleaded
with marked impatience: “Well, we got to
make the milk go rtfund.” A public bene-
factor, clearly; yet they fined him the usual
amount.
* * * *
“F.C.” : Some further illumination on the
doings of that little household utensil, the
flour-sifter. As I said before, the price
used to be Bs. 6d. per doz. wholesale. In
those days all sifters came from W. Wilson’s
country, but when the price reached 325.
per doz. a Melbourne firm started making
them, and doing it a shade better. This
firm, or rather the Associated Wholesale
Ironmongers, charged the same price as for
the imported, so apparently 12s. per doz.
paid all right. Since then the price of the
Yankee article has steadily mounted until it
is now 10s. Gd. per doz. —and the local
article has kept step with it and is now
IBs. Gd. too. I don’t know whether the
Wholesale Ironmongers (under a strictly
honorable understanding) or the local
manufacturers are snavelling the extra 4s.
6d., but somebody is. This is, of course, the
sort of thing that a Permanent Tariff Board
given the proper amount of authority could
correct in one act and keep corrected ; but
such a thing doesn’t yet exist.
* * * *
Away back in 1469 or thereabouts the
King of Norway was in need of cash and
pawned the Orkney and Shetland Islands to
the King of Scotland for 60,000 florins.
Kaiser Wilhelm, so the yarn runs, wants
the islands for a naval base, and is bar-
gaining with Norway for the equity of
redemption. Maybe if he buys them he will
settle down there after the war. Anyway, if
compound interest is to be paid on the
60,000 florins that Norway raised, the price
will run to about £20,000,000,000. Wil-
helm’s idea, no doubt, is to pay it in paper.
* * * *
“F.N.T.” : The ironbark, “threatened,” so
“X.Y.” says, “with early destruction
throughout the N.S.W. North Coast area”
by an insect pest (B. 24/8/T6), has other
troubles. Read these uncomfortable words
of the Inter-State Commission on the same
subject: “The supply in N.S.W. is nearer
exhaustion than that of any other hard-
wood. The timber trade looks to the Bel-
linger and Nambucca rivers to supply the
bulk of its requirements in the future It
does not regenerate well. It is being cut
for girders in the immature. stages and
before it has commenced to seed freely.
The conclusion is that within 10 years the
supply of ironbark on the Bellinger River
will be exhausted.” This Bellinger iron-
bark is the Eucalyptus paniculata —the best
of the several species. Apparently the
Forestry Department has spent too much
time around the office, with its nose in the
sporting news and its feet on the fender, _ to
be aware of what’s really been happening
in the northern forests.
A POSTAL ECCENTRICITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The lost bags and several others were being
thrown from the Milson’s Point wharf on to the ferry
steamer at 9.30. During this rough-and-ready
method of transference two bags were tossed over-
board, and now repose on the harbor bed. Up to
the present no effort has been made to secure them.’
Alicia wrote a loving line to Jack,
Forgiving him with kisses crossed in ink,
Beftring the wanderer to come swiftly back
Before she took to drink.
Five creditors with fury wrote demands
On William Smith to hurry up and pay
For goods delivered by their generous hands
Before next Saturday.
Tom, in despair, his wealthy aunt approached
For cash required in more than urgent haste;
Failing relief his latest egg was poached—
No time had he to waste.
Dawkins, by stealth, obtained a stable tip
And sent the thing at once to Billy Cob:
“Straight wire—you put your shirt on Bumbleflip ;
Invest for me five bob.’’
Porkhampton wrote his broker urgent word
About the sale of certain mining shares;
And Jimpling told his agent ’twas absurd,
That charge for roof repairs.
All in the lottery we call the post
They dropped the variegated inky screeds,
With others of the mighty scribbling host
Who link swift words to deeds.
The postman gathered them with special care
And sealed them in a bag with wax and string ;
The merry day was warm and bright and fair,
The year was at the Spring.
The whole Department was as blithe and gay
As lovers kittling in a wattle arbor;
It tossed the post-bags round in merry play,
Then left them in the harbor.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.
TOOLS OF TRADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sail, the compass and the oar,
The roaring gun that reeks of war,
The axe, the trowel—these and more
Were made for living men.
But wigs and mitres, wands and gowns,
Regalia, sceptres, orbs and crowns,
Are only trappings fit for clowns
Within a circus pen.
A king would rather go to gaol
Than use his sceptre on a nail;
A bishop in a storm afloat
With mitres would not bail a boat;
A judge would dance on air a jig
Ere he would scrub-out with his wig.
On useful work they’re all afraid
To use their foolish tools of trade.
So, rather than a golden crown,
An orb, a mitre or a gown,
A wand, a wig, a ’broidered train,
A rabbit-robe or golden chain,
A feathered hat upon,my brain,
Silk stockings only fit for Jane —•
I’d rather sweat and dig a drain!
Come, gentlemen! Be not afraid
To own a humble tool of trade!
The time is done for lordly mirth !
AVhat claim have ye upon the earth ?
K.s.w.
KODAK.


the light of progress.
MAZDA DRAWN-WIRE LAMPS
BRITISH MADE IN RUGBY, ENGLAND.
skj
mm
r:c
•V :
M
wm
- .. i
I#
•; ::
■
;s;v
HH
mM.
m
§.
m
m
4
m
m
i
9 HP
I
. V
• I sills
I l l s • ii|
II 11 111, !
* I I I‘ltl.r
W
m w s s
n
.
:v
■ v
gMMfe
■
■
He-... .... *
v,
1
■
■
| MR
Ml
Jg
mm
mm
I m
m
&
m
■
■
mmmm
gF "
mrZ#'
.. -
I m
tm
m i
# .v£ r ; v v ',
ĥ
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE-CITY 3510 (5 lines).
KmSIMNE (Q.): The Engineering Sunply Co. of Australia
PERTH 4i L ™ ” COrner Edward aad Charlotte Streets.
I ERTH (WA.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
— Agents—
Mazda House,” Cor. Queen & Little Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONE— CENTRAL 2646. 2647 ; CITY 0579.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical X Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin & Wellington.
TASMANIA:
Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Solid Sil-
ver Lady’s Hair Brush,
silver drawn Bristles, hand-
some “Ribbon” design, 25/»
Mirror to match, 45/-
A. Saunders’ Candlestick, A 1
quality, pure Silver-plated, “Leaf” de-
sign, highly burnished, 10/6.
*£.r :
m
n?)
& w
tt<
m
sZ* r-j
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set,
best-quality Instruments, crystal cut-glass Jars, in
Silk-lined Case, SO/-
HANDSOME TOILET GIFTS
A. Saunders’ Toilet Hair
Receiver, hand engraved, solid
Silver Lid, cut crystal glass Jar,
12/6,
A. Saunders’ Manicure Toilet Set, best
quality, Solid Silver-mounted Instruments, finest
cut crystal glass Jars, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Perfume
Spray, hand-
somely engraved,
Solid Silver
Mount, cut crystal
glass Bottle,
17/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Six-piece Toilet Set, comprising one
Mirror, bevelled glass, two Hair Brushes, silver drawn bristles, Cloth and
Brushes, “Reed and Ribbon” design, in Silk-lined Case, £B/8/-
Hand
Hat
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Lady’s
Hand Mirror, plain concave design,
bevelled glass, handsomely burnished,
35/-
A. Saunders’ 'Solid Silver Military
Brush Set, complete, with two Hair Brushes, Cloth
Brush and Comb, highly burnished, neat “Ribbon”
design, or plain concave, in Silk-lined Case,
£4/4/-
m
SCSgSS!»
sn
MILITARY
COMPASS
Especially adapted for
general all-round military
requirements.
THE RIGHT COMPASS
FOR THE SOLDIER.
For ascertaining any angle
of direction at night-time
and as a Sight Compass
for finding horizontal bear-
ings and angles during the
day.
2in. Diameter, Brass
Case, strongly constructed
with Leather Case.
45/-» Post Free.
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, BRISBANE.
The Right Pistol for
the Boys at the Front
Ask any of the returned Anzacs what they think of a good
Automatic Pistol, they will all say the same as they tell us:
“It’s absolutely the best thing to help a man out of a tight
corner.”
Full equipment, including Pistol, Holster, Special Lan-
yard and 200 cartridges, £5/16/-. This price is only for
men in uniform.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
h
ĥ
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ħ
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled-
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia, .
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50
engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Merrie
England, Bd. llow to Get Rich, 1/- posted. Du.
Lamartine’s Silent Friend, 1/6. Ned Don-
nelly’s Art op Boxing, new enlarged edition,
40 engravings, 1/*. How to Dance, 1/-, post.
How to Wrestle, 1/-. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, 1/2, posted. Thurston’s Card
Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6
each, posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ven-
triloquism Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, 1/- posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/- posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 8(1., AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS RE-
PRINTS (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/3. Mechanics’ Workshop
Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks
and Games, 1/-. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/5. The
Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3. Tricks and
Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/-. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, 1/*. Maria Monk, 1/6. How
to Make Love, 1/- post free. Fowler’s Science
of Life, 10/6. Australian Miners’ Guide
(simple tests for minerals), 3/6. Mahomet’s
Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure
Guide), price 1/-: post, 1/3. llow to Bkcqme
Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 1/- posted. Sandow’s Book of
Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,
4/- posted. Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History
of the Rod (Flagellations and the Flagellants),
scarce 11/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd.
The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and
My Neighbor, Bd. Britain for the British,
8d How to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/8. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/2. Photo-
graphy Self-Taught, 1/3. How to Make Sweets,
Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins,
1/. posted. House Painting and Papering, 1/2.
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 38 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT. IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up
Human Natura as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lan-
guage, a thousand questions that occur to the minds of young
and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting
their phvsieian. Chapters are devoted to innumerable inter-
esting subjects concerning marriage, which makes it a very
superior guide to the action of men and women both in ana
out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright
future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense,
can afford to dispense with the information embraced in its
covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It
to ANY a(idress for EIGHT SHILLINGS AhD SIXIENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO
THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
. _ onH r»r»rtrnifc 1
Prop. Fowler's Human Science, 10/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLINO& (SARDS —LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, full direc-
tions 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-ETtting, etc.,
1/3’ post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; post, 1/3.
Camille, 1/- post. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-.
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/3. Modern
Etiquette, 1/-. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules foi
all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man
From Snowy River, 4/-. Poultry Keeping, V-
posted. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. Ihe White
Slave Traffic, 1/-. Every Man llis Own Car-
penter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning
Calculator, 1/-. The Doctor, cures for all
Diseases, 1/3 posted. , Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
1/3 posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speak-
ing Made Easy, 1/3 posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portiaits, l/- ,
post 1/2 Electricity Made Simple (new), 4/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master. 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book 1/6 Complete Bookkeeping, 2/3. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, & Other Verses 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/2. Wannan’s Engine
Driver’s Guide, 5/6 posted. Virile Powers of
Superb Manhood, 5/- Decameron of Boccaccio
lleptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each
nosted Lee's Priceless Recipes 1/6 posted.
Women's Secrets. 1/- post Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/- posted. The Waybacks, 1/2.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
_ mv nrices with others and save
®"ur P cash y PF 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking *
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS' SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
1/- posted. New Tricks with Cards, 1/- Sappho,
genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 post. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illus-
trations, 2/6. Aristotle, 3/6. Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry,
1/3. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret His-
tory Court of England, 1/6 post. Lovers' Letter
Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Mor-
gan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees,
New Edition, 1/3 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
Bd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 post. Ingkrsoll’s Works,
Bd., 2/-. How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6
posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’
Assistant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5/6 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, Is. post. 100 New Recita-
tions and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness and Its
Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged
Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather boui,id,
inv price 15/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas ’)•
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/2. Dynamos jud
Electric Motors, 1/2. Moore’s Universal Assist-
ant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cLth
bound, 10/6 posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1/- post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by
Paine, posted Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-D/.Y.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, cheap Book Depot, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (only)


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 7th September, 1916.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
■Entry of Apprentices at H.M.A. Naval
Dockyards and Establishments, Sydney,
N.S.W.
AMENDED NOTICE.
A VE EXAMINATION for admission as
u . Apprentices to the following- trades at His
I Australian Na val Dockyards and Establish-
™ Q e ,? ts ’ Sidney, N.S.W., will be held on 18th and
vavtr. D « c , e » lb « r . 1916. in the capital cities of the
tanous States.
Number of Vacancies at:
Trade. Cockatoo Garden
(-0 Candidates must not be less than 14 nor have
ioir 11 - ikeir 16th birthday upon 31st December,
191 b, and must be of pure European descent and
sons ot natural-born British subjects. Applicants
must be of sound bodily health, and free from physi-
cal defects. Successful candidates will be required to
pass a medical examination before entry.
(3) The rates of pay are as follows: —
Industrial award rates will be paid where higher
than those specified above.
(4) The following will be the subjects of examina-
Maximum
. . , . Subject. Marks.
Arithmetic (first four rules, simple
and money) .. , . ~ 300
English (dictation, composition,
handwriting and spelling) . . 200 ) qn n
Geography 100 j duu
Geometry and Algebra . . . . 300
Pass
Marks.
160
150
100
Total 900 400
Extra Subject (not compulsory).
Technical training—experience in,
and aptitude for metal or wood-
working, or trade selected by
candidate; or knowledge of ele-
mentary scale drawing . . . . 100
Total 1000 400
The maximum marks obtainable and the minimum
marks it will be necessary to obtain to pass the
examination are as shown above.
(5) Every candidate for examination must pre-
pare an application on the printed form provided for
the purpose, which must be forwarded to the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne, so as to reach
him not later than Saturday, 4th November, 1916.
Each application must be accompanied by a postal
note for 6s. (examination fee), crossed and made
paj-able to the Director of Navy Accounts, Mel-
bourne.
(6) Printed forms of application, general condi-
tions governing entry, terms of apprenticeship, par-
ticulars relative to syllabus of examination, etc.,
and sample papers set at the 1915 Examination may
be obtained from the following:—
Commodore-in-Charge, H.M.A. Naval Establishments,
Garden Island, Sydney.
General Manager, Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
District Naval Officer, Edgecliff, Sydney.
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne.
District Naval Officer, Bay Street, Port Melbourne.
District Naval Officers, Brisbane, Largs Bay, S.A.,
Fremantle; and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 4th September, 1916.
AVIATION INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF.
CENTRAL FLYING SCHOOL.
Vacancy for Mechanical Draughtsman.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Mechanical Draughtsman (Sergeant) in the
Aviation Instructional Staff, Central Flying
School, Laverton, Victoria.
Pay will be at the rate of £l9O per
annum inclusive of all allowances except
travelling allowance.
Full particulars and form of application
may be obtained from the Military Com-
mandant, Keswick Barracks, Adelaide.
Applications should be addressed to the
Secretary,
Department of Defence,
Victoria Barracks,
Melbourne,
and forwarded so as to reach him not later
than 15th October. 1916.
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
Tenders.
Department of the Navy,
* Melbourne, 31st August, 1916.
Tenders for the Supply of Two 300
B.H.P. Diesel Oil Engines for Twin-
Screw Lighthouse Steamer.
TENDERS will be received, subject to the
conditions of tendering until 12 noon on
Monday, 16th October, 1916, for the supply
and delivery (c.i.f. Melbourne) of two 300
B.H.P. Diesel Oil Engines for Twin Screw
Lighthouse Steamer.
_ Tender form, Specification and further par-
ticulars may he obtained at the Offices of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or at the Naval Staff Offices,
Brisbane, Edgecliff (N.S.W.), Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
J. A. JENSEN,
Minister of State for the Navy.
sNiCp-sHW^cjn^rsiri]
A real Startler. It looks just like
an ordinary Camera, with large
Pcriscopie Lens, two view-6ndcrs
and shutter release. You ask your
victim to “ look pleasant," then you
open the shutter and out darts n
terrific green wiggly serpent!
Great fun and amusement.
Price One Shilling, posted anywhere.
I i The Union Company, 299 Elisabeth Street, Melbourne. I
h
Amusements.
Hurry Itickurds Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
-piVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
VAUDEVILLE DE LUXE.
A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME OF WORLD-
FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Plans at Nicholson's and Tivoli.
■y i voli theatre! Melbourne.
NIGHTLY AT EIGHT.
THE PARSHLEYS, TWO CARLYONS, MAR-
GUERITE LEROY, PRINCE & DEERY, VAUDE &
VERNE, MADAME DANNEVIG, BASLO & VIVI,
CARDO & NOLL, MUSICAL BALKANS, STANLEY
& BURNS, WINIFRED LEVIERE.
Reappearing Next Saturday: THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
Plan at Glen's.
|_|E It MAJESTY’S. SYDNEY.
r * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST SIX NIGHTS of ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
THE LILTING AND LIVELY MUSICAL COMEDY,
ELOItODORA.
Plans at Paling's. Day Sales Callose’s.
uTt E It lON THEATRE. SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT. SEPTEMBER 16.
THE THEATRICAL SENSATION OF LONDON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. Announce
The Reigning Success of London since "Oct. 10, 1915,
when it was produced at the Duke of York’s Theatre,
ROMANCE,
By Edward Sheldon, with i MADGE FABIAN and
FRANK HARVEY, and at Brilliant Supporting
Compapy.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
PA LACE TIIEAT It E, SYDN E Y.
Direction J. & N. TATT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES
and his
ROYAL STROLLEDS.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
W. BARRINGTON MILLER, Managing Director
Union Theatres Limited, presents the new
▼V
X riangle plays at
* THE LYCEUM,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTION PICTURE ENTER-
TAINMENT as it should be.
SESSIONS: 11.45 a.m., 2 p.m.,
4.15 p.m. EVERY DAY, and
8 p.m.
Prists: 6d. to 2/6. Box Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances,’ 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GHEATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrington Miller, Managing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 16.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. revive the Musical
Jollity,
HIGH JINKS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/- and 1/-.
Til EAT RE ROY A L, MELUOU RNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 16.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present lIALE
HAMILTON and MYRTLE TANNEIIILL in
TOO MANY COOKS.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 2/-.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Gov. Director: BEN J. FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN J. FULLER presents his newly-imported
Musical Burlesque Co.
in
PEACHES ON THE BEACHES
and
LOST IN A HAREM.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
KING’S TREAT RE. M E LBOU It NE.
Lessees.... Bert Bailey & Julius Grant.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING.
J. & N. TAIT present
PEG O’ MY 11EAHT.
\ Comedy of Youth, bv J. HARTLEY MANNERS.
THE SUPREME SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES.
Box Plans at Allan’s.
Amusements.
'THE PE A Y HOUSE
■ (Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne).
The GREGAN McMAHON REPERTORY COMPANY
in IBSEN’S
HEDDA GABLER,
SEPTEMBER 16—FOUR NIGHTS ONLY
And W. A. VACHELL’S
QUINNEYS,
SEPTExMBER 23—SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/-. Box Plan at Glen’s.
DIBCH & CAB It OLE
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
CUE E E R’S HOTEL, ME E ISO U R N E
■ (adjoining Bijou Theatre).
Proprietor: BEN J. FULLER.
One of the Largest and Most Comfortable Hotels in
Melbourne. 200 Rooms and Suites. Hot and Cold
Water in every Bedroom. Drawing, Music and
Smoking Rooms. Two Elevators. Night Porter.
First-class Table. Moderate Charges. Board
Optional.
Under the management of CHARLIE TAYLOR and
1 ELLA CARRINGTON.
Business Notices.
Z'x.yjma
Sufferers from that dread complaint,
ECZEMA, should give EXZERMA a trial.
One bottle will bring about relief. A
permanent cure wherever tried. Testi-
monials from all parts of the Commonwealth.
ALL CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
or
SJ. S. FIELDER, Randwick, Sydney. 2|(j
<?
ĥ
BEFORE.
AFTER
r for
QUICK RESULTS
USE
(dPILLARINE
Capillarine lias stood tlie test of
years as a genuine moustache-
producer, and now that the mili-
tary have popularised the mous-
tache once more, its efficacy is
being daily experienced by hun-
dreds of users.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 65 %f% r £° st '
ħ
Stimulating—
Nourishing—
Palatable —
Easily Made —
Easily Stored —
Always an Ideal
Food-Drink.
IK
mm
MtDJR k'
IiJW
art*
i!6WJH-2i
A Reliable Watcb
30|-
Post Free.
I
/
S
w
$
The OMEGA
Swiss Lever.
It is impossible to over-state the merits of
this Watch. The movement will bear the
closest examination, every part being finished
to perfection, with the result that you have
a wonderfully-aecurate timekeeper and a
handsome Watch withal for the sum of 30/-.
Solid Nickel, close-fitting case with clear
open face,
Price 30/-. Post Free.
Wristlet Watches
for Our Soldiers.
Fully jewelled, w ith or without covered mili-
tary straps, luminous dials.
Prices in Solid Silver: 35/-, 40/-, 50/-,
55/-, 65/-, 75/-
In Steel', from 25/- upwards.
Send for our Illustrated List of Soldiers’ Gifts.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
h
ABBEY
SHOES
If you are guided by Quality and
Appearance in the selection of your
Footwear, you will always pur-
chase ABBEY SHOES.
We illustrate a very high-grade Tan
Willow Elastic-side Boot, specially
made for Farm and Station use.
It is very smart in appearance, a
long-wearing boot, and most com-
fortable.
Price - 28/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
• Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between U.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
S'
At Last
A dentrifiee that
not only cleans but
purifies—g:oes to
the root of tooth
evils and elimin-
ates them.
ĥ
The Oxygen Tooth
Powder
The success of Oalox lies in the Oxygen,
which there’s no holding when it is re-
leased by moisture. It penetrates every
recess, routing out all germ and decay ;
better and cleaner teeth follow the use of
CALOX, THE OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER.
All Chemists, Drapers, Fancy-
Goods Stores and Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors
I GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD.
The NEW EDISON
a marvellous instrument.
The wonderful Diamond Stylus in The NEW
EDISON does away with the troublesome
process of changing needles —needles that
wear out themselves and must therefore
destroy valuable records.
The fact that needles do wear out and are
unfit for a second usage proves that neces-
sarily when they begin to play they begin
to wear; when they are half-way thi’ough
they are half worn out, and that the last part
of the record can NEVER be properly
played. This emphasises but ONE outstand-
ing merit, and exclusive feature of The
NEW EDISON construction—for the Edison
Diamond Stylus lasts for ever, and cannot
affect the Re-creation, which is perfect
throughout.
Write at once for illustrated, descriptive
catalog; post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration appearing in Thf:
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


sw
IN
D
Y
rs
ELY
The Wentworth Harden, with its beautiful surroundings, is ideal for
Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Supper and Wedding Parties
and all semi-outdoor functions.
Visitors to Sydney will find the Wentworth Hotel replete with every
com foi l' and modern convenience, including telephones in bedrooms con-
necting with the Exchange.
The cuisine is under the supervision of a verv eminent French chef,
who has his own skilled stall: of assistants thus placing the Went-
worth Hotel with its perfect service and other advantages in the front
rank of the finest hotels in the Commonwealth.
Terms on application.
MRS. MACLUKCAN, Manageress.
h
ĥ
GEORCEvS^
(Near Horderns’.)
Sydney’s Most Elaborately Fitted Theatre.
Starting Saturday- -TWO 810 FEATURES
Lionel Barrymore in the Metro. Drama “THE QUITTER,”
A Sensational Film Story adapted from the Famous Novel.
The William Fox Photo-play “AMBITION.”
Comedies—Topical Budget of World’s Happenings.
Three hours’ Evening Programme—l2,ooo feet of Film.
’Phone City 6218 and reserve seats. Plan a week ahead at Theatre.
Continuous daily 11 to 6.
Bourke 5-
The pictureDlocK R
Sydney ♦
Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last week, according to the daily papers,
a duck with two heads was hatched at Wind-
sor (N.S.W.). That bird was born to be a
politician in Australia. It will be able to
say Yes-No on any question.
Australia’s bill for war pensions is already
on the brink of half a million per annum.
The pensions granted so far are 11,542;
and we still think we can support seven
Cocked Hats, fourteen Parliaments and
Norton Griffiths besides.
This proposal of Holman’s, to bring up
the pension of the N. S. Wales incapaci-
tated soldier to £3 a week, is very popular,
of course —any proposal to spend money on
soldiers gets three cheers just now. But
this is a Commonwealth business, and if
the State butts in, why not also the muni-
cipality? Alderman Gubbins,- the green-
grocer, who ought to be giving attention
to the culverts, will be shrieking presently
for re-election on the ground that he favors
making the pension up to £3 ss. out of the
rates, and Blackhead, the plumber, will try
to beat Gubbins for his seat in the council
by outbidding him and offering £3 10s
THE PERILS OF THE SEA.
WELL-MEANING PARTY: “And what happened
when the cruel (Hermans sank your
ship?”
J ACK: “We went down all hands, Mum.”
A just-issued return shows that, compared
with July, 1915, exports have declined by
£230,519, while imports have increased by
£506,369. The principal imports include:
apparel, £2,316,469; tin plates, £174,277;
and iron and steel rods, £142,296. It is com-
forting, however, to know that we have not
imported either wheat or rabbits.
If little Dr. Maloney’s head were as well
served as his heart he’d be a genius. The
other day he proposed to move—“ That the
House resolves that Australia’s cost of the
war, including all pensions, which will in-
evitably amount to over £300,000,000, must
be paid by Germany, together with adequate
compensation for loss of lives.” Certainly.
And the same also with regard to Belgium,
France, England, Italy, Russia, Portugal
and Roumania. And while he is paying
the bill he is not to be permitted to do any
outside trade. He is to take in his own
washing, so to speak, and pay his debt to
the world with the proceeds. The people
who talk of shutting up the German and
also demanding a vast indemnity had better
think it over.
The poor prisoners of Victoria have been
granted a Defence Bill which may or may
not prove a blessing to the guiltless. It
provides that any person committed for trial
may apply in waiting to a Judge or P.M. for
A DISCORD.
BRIMA DONNA (beginning Handel’s well-
known song): “Om bra mai fu! Om
bra mai fu!”
McSOAK (gallantly): “Na, na, lassie, ye’re
uae fou! Aiblins juist a wee hi[?]
merry! But nae FO U!”
legal aid for his defence. This is good—pro-
vided it doesn’t lead to the establishment of
a Poor Prisoners’ Defence Brigade, enrolled
from among the incapables of the legal pro-
fession. “Legal aid” is not bound to be
aidful. Under present conditions many a
prisoner who could have won the jury’s vote
by his own plain statement has been kept
silent by an assertive muddle headed lawyer
whose defence put his client in the soup.
Sydney Telegraph, appalled at the news
that the price of coolie labor in India may
go up, asks to be told what tea and rice
and cotton are going to cost if these people
get short hours, frequent smoke-ohs and a
decent wage. It looks a fearsome problem ;
but does the Telegraph think that if it
hired an editor at 15s. a week it would be
so much more prosperous that it could afford
to sell itself for a ha’penny?
In N. S. Wales the party politicians have
begun to discuss the finances. It is plain
that the public ought to have a simple,
honest statement of the country’s business.
But it will get nothing of the kind. Holman
started off by painting everything pink.
Wade being absent, ill, George Fuller took up
his brush, and his business was to paint
everything blue. So the blessed document
will be nicely decorated with stripes, and the
truth will be quite hidden. Heaven only
knows what would happen to a private con-
cern managed by directors, part of whom
were kept busy proving that every wrong was
right and the other part proving that every
right was wrong. No doubt Heaven knows
what will happen to N. S. Wales, too.
Officially, Australia, outside its lunatic asy-
lums, is sane; yet with an area of 2,11(4,581
sq. miks and a population of five millions,
part of it is gravely discussing a proposal,
made in Victoria, to drain Lake Corangamute
at heavy expanse in order to provide the con-
tinent with 65,000 acres more cow-country.
While the Argus believes that every young
man should fight for his country, it objects
to him having an equal share in the manage-
ment of the place for which he is expected
to be willing to sacrifice his life. ■ The other
day the old news-sheet opined that “a true
reform would be to raise the voting age for
Senate elections to 30 years.” Certainly;
with an abdominal measurement of not less
than 71 inches.
The curse of boomed land values is bring-
ing colored labor in to roost on Maoriland
farms. During the last five months 43
Hindu coolies have arrived in the Dominion,
and most of them, as well as numerous
others who were inside before, have got jobs
on farms in the Waikato and other Northern
districts. The mortgage is a nightmare on
many of these holdings, and as the interest
bill has to be met somehow, the hired labor
has to suffer.
“Gnat Spry”: Yes; in his prime O’Rorke,
of Maoriland, was unrivalled as a ruler of
Parliamentary debate.
But the old man was
losing his punch towards
the finish, and his autho-
rity was never again the
same after the night he
bowed his head before
stubborn old Jock
McKenzie, Seddon’s Min-
ister for Lands and the
backbone of the Ministry.
Baited by the Opposition
during an angry scene,
McKenzie, a fierce grizzly
bear of a man, made use
of an unparliamentary
phrase and was ordered
by O’Rorke to take it
back. Jock refused, and,
when the House ad-
journed to feed a few
minutes later, threatened
Seddon that he would
resign unless the ruling
was withdrawn. Seddon,
who wanted a Cabinet
crisis less than anything
on earth, went to
O'Rorke and implored
him to give way. He
did. The reason? Well,
he was old and poor.
Everyone was sorry
for him—perhaps even
McKenzie, though that is
doubtful, for he was a
dour, hard old warrior.
O'Rorke seldom spoke as
n private member. When
he did he was amazingly
prosy. When he intro-
duced the Onehunga
Cemetery Bill he rose to
the occasion with a
rotund delivery and
weighty sentences worthy a declaration of
war on Europe.' But behind the Mace and
decorated with a wig he was Great.
Interesting note from “8.D.” :
The Federal proclamation prohibiting the sale of
enemy goods after November has filled Melbourne
shop-windows with an -alarming array of stuff.
Tempted by the reductions which are being offered
on the Hun exhibits —30 per cent, to 50 per cent. —I
invested in a set of woollens, which I was assured
were being sacrificed at half-price. On examining
them later 1 found they were manufactured in Aus-
tralia.
This supports a comparatively old Bulletin
contention —that, after the war, instead of
pushing German and allegedly-German stuff
into the background, there will be plenty of
traders who w r ill push it to the front and-
catch trade by announcing that, being
“enemy” stuff, they have to sell it cheap.
There is no way to stop the sale of foreign
stuff of ami kind except by building a tariff
wall so high that it can’t climb over.
The Vic. Education Department is after
the war-time economy prize. A country
teacher undertook to see what was the mat-
ter with a pupil who turned out to have
meningitis. Being a contact the teacher had to
be laid off work, and the Department decided
that, as he wasn’t on duty when he made
the examination, it could not pay him for
the time he was laid off. Of course he
should have allowed the child to bring the
infection to the school and examined him
there. Then 20 little corpses could have
been tied up nicely in Red Tape, and all
would have been quite right.
The South Aus. Government is anxious
to assist in the manufacture of lanoline,
which is a by-product of woolscouring, and
advertises that it will submit details pre-
pared by its Department of Chemical
Research. Hargreaves, the director, says
that costs would not be more than £ls' a
ton, though the pre-war price was about
£75. Is anything doing? If not, why not?
That s what Australia wants to know. It
is not much good having a Department of
Chemical Research if, when it discovers
something, the people in the next-door in-
dustry don’t explain why they cannot take
advantage of the discovery.
Jack Scaddan is shivering out in the cold,
without a Parliamentary seat to sit in; and
he had better be left there for a while. He
had a seat, but when his Ministry was
thrown out he resigned in order to fight
Robinson, one of his successors, for his seat.
Robinson beat him; but meantime his own
seat had been filled, and now he seems quite
hurt because the occupant refuses to move
out. Scaddan is trying to play the game
with a two-headed penny. To all intents
and purposes he wanted to remain member
for Brown Hill and be a candidate for
Canning at the same time. That isn’t
“sporting,” and Jack, as an ancient Ben-
digo footballer, wants above all things to be
considered “sporting.”
Fleming asked in the Reps, the other night
whether the Government would appoint offi-
cers to give military training to members at
such time and place as would fit in with
the performance of their duties. Frank
Tudor, in the absence of Pearce, asked for
notice of the question. If we had Conscrip-
tion there would be none of this nonsense.
A proper authority would decide on the ser-
vice that the citizen should render; and
drill-sergeants’ time wouldn’t be wasted on
people whom the Defence Act says are exempt
from service because they have another
national job to do.
The Tasmanian hopgrowers are still ham-
mering away at Customs Minister Tudor,
but have got nothing from him save a hint
that the duty may be increased some day.
He told them that if they could prove that
German hops are trickling in via U.S.A.
the Federal people would do something, but
though the growers have their suspicions
it is hard to bring positive proof. All they
know is that they are being throttled ; and
they reckon they can be just as dead if the
string that’s tied round their throats was
made in the U.S.A. as if it were made in
Germany. So they are getting busy with
the grub-hoe and will plant something else.
Watch the machine at work: —
P. ,T. Minahan, Labor member for the Sydney con-
stituency of Belmore, has been defeated for the
selection. Seven years ago, on the death of E. W.
O’Sullivan, there was a strong local feeling in favor
of John English. Despite this, the P.L.L. Executive
ran Minahan, a boot-manufacturer with money to
burn. English bottled his wrath, but cleared decks
for the general-election selection which .was then
approaching. Again he was turned down by the
Executive, this time on a technicality; and so
started the row that has raged ever since. English
at once entered the lists, and called on all lovers of
fair play and other things to rally round him.
Minahan, of course, called on—well, no matter,
seeing that he beat English by 60 votes in a big
poll. In 1913 the same pair were at it again, and
this time Minahan accounted for his man by lopo.
English then appears to have tired of the “Indepen-
dent” game, and gradually got himself accepted
once more as a real dyed-in-the-wool Laborite. His
followers, too, got the Executive (It. D. Meagher,
president) to remove the embargo, and they became
No. 2 Belmore League. Incidentally, Aid. Mick
Bourke became Aid. John English for the purpos<
of the contest. Though Minahan was making rapid
marches, speaking nicely to everybody, and spending
all his screw on charity, No. 2 battalion was kept
busy tearing out tickets of membership and gradually
PORTRAIT OF HYDE PARK . SYDNEY
(N.S.W.), ABOUT 1930.
In view of the frequent filching of portions of Hyde
Park for various purposes this paper urges Alger-
non Fitz-Clarence to make arrangements for a new.
address before it is too late.
closing in on him, till at the day of the ballot it
was seen, after a careful count, that Aid. English’s
ghost had issued just 25 tickets more than Mina-
ban’s friends. So Michael aforesaid gets his start
towards Parliament.
HELLAS AWAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now by the boaes of old Leonidas,
Whose spear made terror in "the Asian throng,
Whose death-smile Treason-captured pass
Gave the free world the spirit of a song,
Greece rises with the warcry of her sires—
The Teuton’s last intrigue pales and expires.
Sparta and Athens, Argos, Arcady!
Was the old light blown out that once could shine
Clearer than white stars on the isle-set sea?
Was the hope dead, the old Homeric wine
Drugged'with strange herbs that lulled the blood
to- sleep,
AVhen Freedom rose her last blood-tryst to keep?
r .
Men wondered. For. Greece seemed a supine thing,
Forgetful of man’s rights and ancient shames.
The'-triek and'guile of a small alien king
Held!her inert amid a world in flames.
Men sorrowed for the great name of a race,
Sudden in honor, slow to brook disgrace.
And now the ancient Hellas seems to wake!
The petty German kingship pales and fades.
The loud shields clash, the spears of Sparta shake,
Ambracia forms in phalanx her brigades ;
And, ’mid the clamor that old Pyrrhus knew,
Our faith grows strong—the soul of Greece is true!
n.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.


m
-dL-si
Representative
Australian
Authors.
A Selection of Novels by Australia’s Foremost Writers
... from . . .
The “Bookstall” Series of Shilling Books
EDWARD DYSON’S
Humorous Books:
“loves of Lancelot.”
“Fact’ry ’Antis.”
“Spats’ Fact’ry.”
“Tommy the Hawker.”
“Benno and Some of the
Push.”
“The Missing Link.”
A. G. STEPHENS:
“Bill’s Jdees.”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS:
“The Knight of the Motor
Launch.”
RANDOLPH
BEDFORD:
“Billy Pagan.”
LOUIS BECKE:
“Bully Hayes, Bucca-
neer.”
“The Adventures of Louis
Blake.”
NORMAN LINDSAY
“A Curate in Bohemia.”
STEELE RUDD’S
Selection Stories:
THOS. E. SPENCER’S
Humorous Books:
J. H. M. ABBOTT:
“The Sign of the Serpent.”
All One
Price:
t jm each
1/1 Posted
ROY BRIDGES:
“On His Majesty’s Ser-
vice.”
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S
Sporting Novels:
“Under a Cloud.”
“In the Last Stride.”
“Rang In.”
“Gamblers’ Gold.”
“A Rogue’s Duck.”
“The Sport from Hollow-
log Flat.”
E. J. BRADY:
“Tom Pagdin, Pirate.”
M. FORREST:
"A Bachelor’s Wife.”
JOHN SANDES:
“Dove and the Aeroplane.”
SUMNER LOCKE:
“Skeeter Farm.”
“Hum Dawson, Boss.”
“The Dawsons’ Uncle
George.”
AMBROSE PRATT:
“Wolarol’s Cup.”
Obtainable from all Booßstalls and
BooKsellers in the Commonwealth.
Write to the Publishers for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, Sydney.
ħ
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
21-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
This Month’s New Records Now On Sale.
The Great War Song of the “Anzacs”
G 7286
r Australia Will Be There (W. W. Francis) Stanley Kirkby, Baritone
1 Australia Will Be There, March ~ Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards
L (With Vocal Chorus)
Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards (Conducted by Andrew Harris)
G 7271
j The Baby Parade < (Arthur Pryor)
l The Siamese Patrol (Paul Lincke)
Regimental Band of H.M. Scots Guards (Conducted by F. w. Wood)
G 7270
Boys of the Dardanelles March (Marsh Little)
—With Vocal Chorus by Cecil Cooper
High School Cadets March (J. P. Sousa) The Silver Stars Band
First Exclusive Records by Britain’s Greatest Pianist, William Murdoch
G 7272
f Chant Sans Paroles (Tscliaikowsky)
l The Harmonious Blacksmith • (Handel)
John Adams, Tenor (with Orch.)
G 7273
i I’ll Sing Thee Songs of Araby
I Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes, from “The Gondoliers” (Gilbert and
(F. Clay)
Sullivan)
J. H. Scotland, Bass (with Orch.)
G 7274
i When Young Men Go Courting
1A Sailor’s Song
(Weatherly and Phillips)
(Hermann Lohr)
Ella Shields, Comedienne (with Orch.)
G 7375
( Just One Kiss (Lipton and Hargreaves)
11 Don’t Admire the Girl in White (In the Army) (W. Hargreaves)
Harry Weldon, Comedian (with Orch.)
G 7276
( On the Road to Ruin (Castling and Murphy)
i Pedigrees (Harry Castling)
Jack Lane, “The Yorkshire Rustic” (with Orch.)
G 7277
( I Shear Sheep in the Sheep-Shearing Season
( My Dear Old Yorkshire Farm
.. (David and Long)
(Bateman and Long)
F. W. Ramsey, Baritone (with Orch.)
G 7278
J Since Ciiumley Came Back from London Town
l Along the Rocky Road to Dublin
(Nat D. Ayer)
(Young and Grant)
William Thomas, Tenor (with Orch.)
G 7279
. (Graham and Janowski)
. (Fitzgerald and Le Roy)
—Stanley Kirkby, Baritone
f God Bless My Soldier Baddy
j It’s Only a Step from Ivillarney to Heaven
Stanley Kirkby, Baritone (with Orch.)
G 7280
j Some Niglit, Some Waltz, Some Girl (Godfrey, Mills and
( Dreamtime and You
Scott) —With Celesta
. (Horatio Nicholls)
G 7281
You Stole My Heart Away (L. Wright)
For Killarney and You (Walsh and Teasdale) William Thomas, Tenor
Shaun Glenville, Comedian (with Orch.)
G 7221
f The Yiddislier Irish Baby (David, Godfrey and Wright)
(A Few Irish Yarns (Talking)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonoia, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Hinsdale’s Proprietary, Ltd., 269 Swanston St.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. K. Firth, Koyal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
A
m
9
?A.
&
THE growing activities of our second year's hostilities
find Avon Tyres in increased demand for H.M. Trans-
port. Tried and proven in the fierce flame of War, as they
have been tried in every sort of civilian service, Avons emerge
as Seasoned Campaigners worthy of the highest place in the
esteem of the motoring public.
C. We are told that this is a war of attrition or exhaustion. If tyres
are tried out to the last limit of endurance we may count upon
British Avons being found among the surviving fittest. They are
running in all theatres of the War, on all sorts of motors—from
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales’ Staff limousine to the humblest
regimental runabout.
1
jn
m
on
m
•Mi
at m
Agents: N. J. HOWES 8 CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney; H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
m
George hotel,
St. Kiida, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Australia Hotel
SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Telegrams—
Australia,
Telephone 7260,
4 lines.
P.O. Box 1610.
Sydney.
The Premier Hotel of Australasia.
Has accommodation for 300 Guests. Single
and double Bedrooms and Suites, with Bath-
room attached. Hot and Cold Water, Auto-
matic Telephones and Electric Heaters
throughout. Visitors have the preference of
the American or European Plan of rating.
Two special Grill-rooms are attached, in
addition to Main Dining-room, seating 500
Guests. The Winter Garden is the largest
in Australasia, and is the meeting-place of
the Elite of Sydney, who foregather for
Afternoon Teas and Supper after the Theatre.
A High-class Orchestra furnishes Music twice
a day.
Single Rooms from 16/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Double Rooms from 32/6 per day,
including Telephone.
Room and Breakfast from 11/-
per day.
Suites of Apartments as per arrangement.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
wAßßAU and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
If any illustration appearing in Tixe
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Will the country help Billy to mount
that fiery conscription steed? The solution
of this problem may be assisted by inspira-
tion from that wise spirit King George IV.
topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
Men shaved years ago in a way
that gashed their chins and
spoilt their tempers. Why cling
to these old-time methods ?
ĥ
tzmmnxm
NO STROPPING NO HONING
combines safety, speed and
comfort with adjustability.
BRITISH MADE.
Sold everywhere. Write for free booklet.
Agents: S. Iloffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., London, Eng.
TAAOC
MARK
SiOTsOP
KNOWN Tlif
«©KCO ©Vt%
Public Notices.
The Uganda Rubber and Cacao Estates Ltd.
(In Liquidation).
TO THE EXECUTORS OF W. H. WATT, DE-
-1 CEASED, whose last-known address was 7 Bent
Street, Sydney, New South Wales:—
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a sum of
Rupees Four thousand due to the aforementioned
deceased as dividend in connection with The Uganda
Rubber and Cacao Estates Ltd. (In Liquidation), is
now lying in my hands as Official Liquidator of that
Company.
Correspondence addressed as above has not been
answered. Unless this amount is claimed by 31st
December, 1916, it will be handed over to His
Majesty’s High Court of Uganda for custody. Any
claim for the above sum must be supported by
an affidavit and documentary evidence of identity,
and must be addressed to
CYRIL E. SPENCER,
Chartered Accountant,
Box 97, Kampala, Uganda.
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION AND SPORTS.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
ħ
MIGHT WIN THIS
Su6so
FIRST PRIZE DIAMOND TIARA
i
2nd prize value £lOl, 3«d prize value
and 307 other valuable prlz>a
£’.oo,
Value £3,500
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Barnett, Sydney,
N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHIELING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1910.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 9.
To anv person forwarding stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets mav be had from Agents in all towns, or
direct from JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
h
ĥ
ħ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
There are any number of sports and others
in N. S. Wales who reckon the tote has just about
arrived. The Holman Government's need of new
revenue is beginning to grow desperate, and it is not
considered likely that this source of income can be
much longer left untouched. Anyhow, several indivi-
duals who are not usually in the habit of tossing
their money away, and are suspected of being close
enough to the political stable to hear any whispers
that may be floating around, last week suddenly
found themselves anxious to acquire shares in Total-
ling Mechanisms, Ltd., at a substantial premium.
There is a yarn, too, about the company haying a
very favorable contract or option or something in
connection with the right to work the mechanical
odds-calculator on metropolitan courses. All this
has convinced most of the MacShortodds brethren that
a new. fielder is coming into the game sooner than
they expected. Questioned in the Assembly on the
subject, Holman fenced with his questioner.
* ** * *
Tattersall’s Soring meeting, always one
of the most interesting of the year to the Sydney
owner and trainer and punter, drew a big crowd to
Randwick on Saturday. Most of it went to get a line
on the big A.J.C. meeting next month. What it
succeeded in doing was to present Israel with a fair
win and contract a deep suspicion that the Epsom
and Metropolitan winners are not going to be too
easy to find. Apart from the Steeplechase (and in that
it was only a half-favorite that won; the other fell
down with three others) not one favorite lived up to
expectations; two rank outsiders finished where Ikey
wanted them to be ; and several nags heavily backed
for important events to come gave supporters a lot
of encouragement to expect the worst. Three of the
winners were imported, and, still excluding the
steeple, all the others were of lately-imported blood.
Out of 18 place-getters 13 were by sires bred out of
Australia.
Polycrates (Bst. 111 b.) put up a great performance
in the Tramway Handicap, seven furlongs. He showed
temper at the start, and got away badly. It was not
until the field were round the bend that he com-
menced to move up. At the Leger the race looked a
gift to either Colugo (7st. 121 b.) or Panacre (9st.
lib.) ; but over the last half-furlong O’Connell
brought Polvcrates along with a run which buried the
other two and put the leader a couple of lengths
ahead at the post. It was an impressive perform-
ance, and nothing transpired to suggest that the
people who had backed the imported horse for the
Epsom felt sorry for themselves. Colugo will have
41b. the better of the weight compared with Satur-
day’s tonnage, but if Polycrates repeats his form this
will not nearlv bring them together. Nor will the
difference of 51b. in favor of Merrimee, whose effort
over the last bit was nothing to get excited about,
Obliterate the difference of the form displayed. Pan-
acre did well, and may do better. Garlin will possi-
bly do even worse if that near hind leg of his gets
any stiffer. He finished last but one. Polvcrates is
weighted at Bst. 61b. in the ..Epsom, and on the
strength of Saturday’s gallop must at least be
reckoned to look better than anything which finished
behind him. But a few of those that have to be
beaten in the mile-race were not against him on
Saturday.
Chelmsford Stakes (a mile and a furlong, w.f.a.)
turned out a good thing for the ordinary-looking
Maorilander Sasanoff, one of the team sent a cress
by AV. G. Stead. The gelding stuck to his job like
a tradesman, and had a sharp tussle with Woorak
(9st. 111 b.) at the finish. The flying chestnut was
giving the winner 2st. 51b., and that was just a
little too much. There was a good field in this
race—-among others Cetigne, Kilhoy, Thana. AVolaroi,
Wallace Isinglass, Bee, Hopfield and Kingsburgh.
Wallace looked well, and after getting bumped ran
like a steer. Of the three-year-olds Thana was in
front at the finish, but both Kilbov aud AVolaroi wore
putting in good work. As usual AVoorak streaked
away on his own and made light of his burden until
collared. He is a wonderful little horse, and if
the race had been a furlong shorter must certainly
have won. In the Fpsom he will not have so far
to pro, but he has another half-stone to hump along.
It looks a lot. Apart from that the race threw
no light on the A.J.C. events; but when it was
discovered that Sasanoff had been accommodated with
6st. lllb. in the Caulfield Cup, the Bar A’ons refused
to take any liberties with him and he bounded to the
top of the list. For the present aud on paper the
Maorilander looks better than anything else in that
event.
There was a barrow-load of cash for Meroo
(7st. 81b.) in the Spring Handicap and at the
death threes was the best available Tb<-re was
money, too, for Trinobantes (Bst. 101 b.) and Bridges
(7st. 91b.) aud a little for Rnshford (Bst. 81b.). The
thud could be heard a mile away. None of them
were in it or locked as if they were going to be.
The imported gelding Fantarie, who last season ran
two good races at Bnndwick, outpaced the Mal c ter
horse Three Star and leaded the bacon to the
accompaniment of a hallelujah chorus from the
fielders, few of whom had been asked to even put
a price on him. There was no excuse for Meroo.
He was well placed at the turn, but declined to
come on. R'shford was never properlv in th°
procession. Th’s page last week reckoned him well
in the Metropolitan. This week it suspects itself
of having spoken in a hurry.
* * * *
Old time N. S. Wales Rugby Union full-
back Jimmv McMahon has a valuable animal in
Karanaud King, which appropriated Tatt.’s AVelter
Handicap at Randwick on Saturday. Unfortunately
for James, he and his friends never seem able to size
this nag un at the right moment. Writer knows
beyond a debt that Karanaud King was believed to
have a big chance of annexing laH Svdnev Cup. even
though he started at 100 to 1. The prad was nearer
last than first in that event, but later came out and
landed City Tattersall’s Cup at 50 to 1 without a
bean of the stable money being there to piuh him
along. On that occasion the imported Fantarie, who
won the Sprirg Handicap on Saturday, was runner-
up. The sto— was current last Saturday that
Karanaud King’s people were offered anv part of the
sweep they desired in connection with the Spring
Handicap, but under the belief that the ho v se was
not forward enough in condition to run a mile and
a quarter, they turned the proposition down. It is
also told that the King did not win anv money for
his connections bevoed the stake on Saturday. He
has 7st. 31b. in the Metropolitan Stakes.
* * # *
The Chosen were hooked on the chin nt
Randwiek on Saturday. After the last race they
started as usual to bet on the Ensom, Metron., the
two Cups—in fact, anything on which a wager eo”ld
be made —and were doing it till an order went out
that operations must cease. No matter what may be
alleged to the contrary, the sole reason for this
action is to be found in the smell left behind by
some of the recent figlits here, especially one in which
the lamentable Buck Crouse, povv homeward bound
to Dollarland, had figured. And Crouse got “sealed,”
too. The Children will have to tall on the push
behind this sort of thing or lose favorable chances
of carrying on their legitimate business.
* -jfr * *
The South Aus. three-year-olds cannot
settle which of them is the best. Hamilton’s Bour-
lang has it sometimes, and at others Hawker’s
Boontree, while Mostyn Owen’s Marmur is always
handy to support, or divide, thp others. Boontree
is a hard-working filly, having had 18 races as a
two-year-old, and thrived on them. At Adelaide
Tattersall’s meeting, the Hurdles winner paid a
a. 59 14s. dividend (in a field of 15) ; and then
there was left 275. as a consolation for each backer
of the bad second. Other pleasant remarks made by
the totalisator on the same afternoon: £2l 18s.,
£l3 35., and £7 11s. for a second.
* * * *
Adelaide Hunt Club is going to miss its
annual race meeting this year, for the best of all
reasons —-that practically all of its riding members
are at the Front. The club has been in existence for
just on half a century, and has never had a break
till now. Just as the anti-sport party began to
rejoice over this bit of news the club undertook to
run a Patriotic meeting instead. All the other
race-bodies are helping, and it will be a much
bigger thing than the “picnic” fixture abandoned.
“T. 0.1.”: A name of note has dropped out
of the racing lists through the death of Albert L.
Yuille. He was the younger son of the late W. C.
Yuille, owner of Flj'ing Buck, winner of the first
Champion Race of Australia at Flemington in 1859,
subsequently a sporting writer of note under the
pen-name “Peeping Tom,” and the founder of the
stock-selling firm of W. C. Yuille and Co. The senior
was a very old Victorian colonist, having come over
from Tasmania in 1837; he was at the first race-
meeting at Batman’s Hill, where Spencer Railway
Station is now. In 1840 he went to Maoriland, and
was present when Captain Hobson took possession in
the name of the British Government. The son, just
dead, was a partner of the firm of W. C. Yuille and
Co., Kirk’s Bazaar. In his young days he was a cood
cricketer, later on a golfer, and between times the
owner of some well-known horses.
* * * *
“0.K.”: An interpleader motion just
decided in Hobart should serve as a warning to all
possible winners of Tatt.’s sweeps. A recruiting-
officer in Adelaide drew Amata in the last sweep on
the Newmarket Handicap. Being unlearned in racing
matters he hastily wired to Tatt.'s requesting that
ever-ready go-between to lay the owner of Amata
£lOOO to nix against his horse. The mare was. then
quoted at 10 to 1 in the betting, so the recruiting-
officer was practically chucking a hundred golden
jimmies at squatter Landale. The owner and stable
had backed Amata; the mare was reckoned as good
a thing as she proved to be; and the bribe of
£lOOO to nix was quite uncalled for. Nevertheless
Tatt.'s instructed their Melbourne agent to find the
wealthy owner of Amata and make him a provi-
sional prrsent of the £lOOO which the unwealthy
ticket-holder was ready to sacrifice. Tatt.’s might
have told him not to be a darned fool; but instead
of offering this good advice they aided the juggins in
his foolishness. The agent couldn't “approach”
owner Landale, that gilded sport being in England,
so he placed the gratuity wager with Mr. Baillieu,
who represents friend Landale. Meanwhile somebody
in Adelaide had warned the ticket-holder of his
follv, a"d he wired to Tatt.'s countermanding his
“lay-off.” Too late! Mr. Baillieu had already in-
structed Tatt.’s agert to return thanks to the jug-
gins who had chucked a lot of morev at a rich man;
but, it appears, the thanks of Baillieu didn’t come
to hand in Hobart until the countermanding tele-
gram had arrived. Tatt.'s paid the £lOOO to Lan-
dale. ’The holder of the ticket proceeded against
Tatt.’s. But the Judge, on interpleader, ordered
Landale to be substituted for Tatt.'s in the princi-
pal action; and that’s as far as the matter has gone
at present.
« * » *
“Mock”: Old nags, is it? Well, the
year-old moke mentioned bv “Wart” (B. 17/8/T6)
was cut off in its prime. Nineteen years ago I was
present at the execution, and subsequent obsequies of
a mare that had lived a useful life of 32 years and
five months. She belonged to mv father, who bred
her and fired the last shot. If “Wart” plods through
the files of the Warrnambool (Vic.) papers of '6B and
’69 he will find in the racing news of tho=e years
records of a bay mare Marv Ann, by Mariner, re-
turned as winner of more than one steeplechase at
Warrnambool and district meetings. In one steeple
Joe Thompson offered £3O to a shilling against her,
and Dad rushed in and had a counle of bob’s worth.
Mary won by half a furlong after that fine old-time
Western District ’chaser Lion had broken his neck at
the last fence. After that mare was 21 I rode her
over fences on the old Wimmera farm.
* * * *
“Hambidge”: From “Davy’s” yarn (B.
31/8/ 16) it appears that he considers 35 years a
good age for a horse. Let me bring Pollv into the
ring. At one time she was the best hack in the
district. She would do two horses’ work all day, and
at night scrape a living off a paddock that a cater-
pillar couldn't have found breakfast on. Besides this
she had a wonderful soul. She would stand and look
at nothing for hours with a faraway, sad look in her
eyes, and a kind smile round the corners of her
rrionth. Polly had a family of two. One tried to
push a barb-wire fence down and died ; the other we
shot five years ago because, being then 34, he was too
old to work. Pollv, his mother, had been pensioned
off in a paddock, but climbed a 4ft. fence and found
her way to the pound. There she was sold, and six
months ago she was delivering chops for a butcher.
» # * *
Darcy had Jimmy Clabby for an enemy at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday, and the fray was fully
as exciting as a sewing-bee. The crowd went to see
a scrap for the championship. What it did see was
a desperate struggle by Clabby to get possession of
Darcy's gloves, and he kept on doing it from the
first round to the last, except when Scott dragged
him away, and then he started to do it again. As
an exhibition of boxing the thing was just plain
farce. Occasionally the crowd gave it the count, most
of the time it cursed the early-closing arrangement
that had cut the beer off, and in between it veiled
advice to the referee. There were whole rounds in
which Clabby scarcely struck a blow, and in which
Dare.v did nothing hut wrestle to get his hands free.
Sometimes the disturbance opened un for a few
seconds, and on these rare occasions there was only
one in it. In the thirteenth the Yank had a torrid
time, and was only saved by the hell. In the last
he was so weak that he could scarcelv stand. He had
not won a round. It was an inexpressibly dreary
evening.
» » * «
.Toe Russell, old-time champion among the
feathers, who has probably fought 20 rounds oftener
than any other known pug. stopped what Tommy
Ryan had to hand over at Brisbane on Saturday and
dropped to sleep before the second interval. When
Joseph awoke he remembered having seen stars of
many colors, and learned that the unpleasantness had
been ended wid a woodener.
* * * *
Fanning, the American feather, exchanged
biff with Ned Fitzgerald, a Bananalander, at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday, and litz found most
of it coming where he didn’t want to N take delivery.
The Yank has been too long at the game for Fitz,
who at the thirteenth time of colliding went down
and stayed there. The stranger had smitten him on
the bin’gy. #
Taken, the count in France, Itube
Mclnerney, one of Melbourne's best-known feather-
weights. He was a son of Tom, one-time middle-
weight champion, and has two brothers in khaki.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: This is how Bob told it:
“Me an’ Juddy was trapsin’ on the sand, nothin’ t’
do, when Juddy spots a dainty darlin’ chuckin’ chips
in the sea, an’ he gits to it. Juddy’s big, an’ he’s
bulky, an’ his ’air .curls. He’s an intoxicatin’ lot
with women is Juddy. He puts his ’at a little over
his ear. ‘ ’Ow is it V sez he. ‘Bit iv a nice, fine
day fer a gad round with one yeh love,’ sez he. The
girl looked him over. ‘Wash out yer earsl’ sez she, an’
starts off. Juddy is after her, an’ I’m with Juddy.
Juddy keeps- up his pleasin’ talk, tellin’ her about
her pretty ’air an’ all. Sez she: ‘Me ’usband's at the
boat’ouse. He’ll about stiffen you.’ Does Juddy fall off ?
Not he 1 Juddy tells her about her neat heels, an’
sez her waist’s somethin’ lovable. ‘Me ’usband’ll
rough the 'ead off yeh!’ sez the lady. ‘l’m lookin’
forward to it,’ sez Juddy. Well, we comes to the
boat’ouse, ’n’ she ducks in. Juddy looks the scenery
over, an’ whistles like a bird, an’ out comes me lady
with the ’usband. S’elp me two-’n’-tuppence, he’s
five-foot-five, an' much too thick fer active hostilities.
Juddy an’ me larfed our ’eads off at the idear of this
objec’ beltin’ Juddy. And but fer one thing the
thort of that little, fat elder misusin’ Juddy would
still be givih’ us a joy fit.” “What was the one
thing, Bob?” I asked. “Why, the cow, he rolled in
an’ well done it!” said Bob.
REFEREE QUIRK praying for guidance
(Melb. Stadium).
Young Walter Lindrum, whilst practising
for his forthcoming match with brother 1- red, put up
a great performance the other afternoon. He made
a break of 354 in about twenty minutes. Then he
began afresh with the balls at the top of the table,
and kept them there whilst he was scoring a break
of 820. By this time he was dead tired, and
broke down at an easy shot. Walter’s technique is
though: to be not quite so correct as his brother’s,
but the proof of the style is in.the scoring, and a boy
who can run up a break of 820, with 40 consecutive
nursery cannons in it, is a law unto himself.
* * * *
Iv. Harbison, an East Maitland lad, did
some fine lea >ii.g at the combined High School cham-
pionships at Sydney last week. In the pole vault he
cleared 9ft. 3in. —24in. bctccr than his own record of
last year —and he made a fine effort with a high
jump of sft. sin. As Harbison is also something
extra over the battens he should be heard of later on
if he doesnt jump up and never come down again.
At Sydney High School athletic champion-
ship competitions last week R. F. Cripps (Newington)
won the 100yds., 220yds., 440yds., 880yds. and the
broad jump, and finished second in the high jump
and 120yds. hurdles. The 220yds. in 24sec. was a
particularly smart effort. Cripps has been the New-
ington top-notcher for three years. E. W. Carr
(Sydney Grammar) won over 100yds., 440yds.,
880vrls. and broad jump. L. F. Claremont (Sydney
High) was first over 100yds., 220yds., broad jump,
and was second in 120yds. hurdles. R, Honner (St.
Joseph’s) had a day-out, too, scooping 100yds.,
220vds., broad jump and hop, step and jump, and
finishing second in four other events. Still the fool-
ishness of allowing young athletes to run excessive
risks needs curtailment. Athletes develop lung and
muscle —and sometimes play Old Harry with the
heart. Unless a curb is put on some of these young
enthusiasts their future will not extend beyond school-
days. The A.A.A. would do something useful if it
gave this phase of the matter a little consideration.
Fired by dislike of the Australian fifty-
miles’ walk record (9hrs. 42min. 2sec.), S. J.
Barber, of the Adelaide Harriers, went out to im-
prove it on Saturday, and when he pulled up at
the end of the stroll it was announced that 12nun.
22sec. had been hacked off the figures. 1
amateur record for a lieel-and-toe jouiney •
miles is 7hrs. 52min. 27sec., made by J - ”
England 11 years ago. The professional time »
2mm. worse. Yet to get over 5i miles an hour 1
nine consecutive hours scarcely looks as l* 1 ! ; 1
as many others tackled with a light heart y
busters. # «
The pedestrians of the Speck have moved
off quickly enough to Warm their feet. W ™
members of the T.AiA.A. are already doing their bit
somewhere or other. Six have passed out, o ,
three, F. C. Brookes, V. J. Wickers and H. A. W aid,
had represented the Speck on the mainland.
Dick Lee, of Colling wood, again topped
the goal-getting list in Vic. premiership football, in
recent years Lee has been in a class by him. e ,
this season he lifted 47 flags between the po t.
next on the list was V. Gardiner (43) and
(27). Wally Messenger (50) and Bolewski (40;
headed the schedule in N.S.W. Rugby League com-
petition and Cup matches; and Messengei is, still
knocking his boots out of repair kicking goals tot
Paddington among the Sydney-side Australian Rulers.
.. The memory of f*Bunhy”' ,Paly--the
Messenger, so to speak, of South Australian football
anywhere about 1890— has been honored by a ample
monument in West Terrace Cemetery, Adelaide
Piper, K.C., unveiled it and made the appropnate
remarks, in the presence of Woods, Searcy, Grayson
and others of the old.Norwood Club, latterly no great
power in football, but in Daly’s time almost unbeat-
abie. . .
This year’s school football championship of
the Speck has gone to Church Grammar (Launces-
ton) St. Virgil’s (Hobart) headed the list m the
South for the fifth year in succession, but on voyag-
ing to the Tamar thev were simply trampled on lt»
goals 19 behinds to 1 goal 5 behinds.
* *
Bob Spears, of Dubbo (N.S.W.), con-
tinues to stop the Yank riders from acquiring aU the
prize-money on their cycle tracks. After finishing
second to Frank Kramer in the world’s championship
Spears turned the tables in a special match at New
York; and last week he and R. J. McNamara
took the cash of the 100 kilo. (63J miles), teams
race, with other Australian batches in second and
third places. Spears’s crust seems to have butter
and jam on it these times. There are better men
eating bully beef. _
* * *
Esme Field, N.S.W. amateur sculleress,
won her twentieth race without a defeat on the Par-
>■"matta River on Saturday. Giving away starts ot
30sec. and 25sec. in lj miles, the champion headed
tiie others soon after reaching half-way and won
easily.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Cricket Association’s decision
to carry on premiership cricket during the season has
found no favor in other States. In Vie. and S. Aus.
the game will struggle along on last year’s lines,
which mostly means the accumulation of moth and
rust. It looks as if cricket will have to start again
from somewhere near the beginning.
* * * *
The attenuated Apperly has writhed his
way through the final of another golf championship,
adding the scalp of Tom Smith, of Kensington (Syd-
ney), to the string already at his belt. On the long
course Apperly smote ’em with tortuous sweeps. Also
he unwound himself after each drive without serious
complications. If Apperly gets a shred thinner or
longer or adds any more loops to that swing of his
he will, for a certainty, do himself up into a plait
that nobody will be able to untwist. Meantime, he
sits on the top rung of the N.S.W. golfing ladder.
* * * *
That widely-known old salt, the late
Captain William Kenney, of Kenney’s Baths, St.
Kilda (Vic.), passed on his name to a son and a
grandson. The son still runs the old baths on the
Esplanade. Grandson Bill, of the 6th Field Ambu-
lance, was killed at Gallipoli. Now tlie news has
come through that Arthur Kenney, Bills only bro-
ther, went missing on the strenuous 19th of July.
Several generations of St. Kilda early morning dip-
pers will call around to say they are sorry.


Why Wait Till You Get
1
r
a Thrashing
before you learn to box?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path?
Why take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the eyes
of your fellows—through your inability to assert your rights when the
occasion occurs?
Why not learn to defend yourself, and become a REAL man—a man always
to be reckoned with —looked up to —and respected?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
Teach you how to take your part—how to stand up
and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow who
dares to insult or belittle you.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly art
of self-defence—teach you every “hit,” “move” and
“stop” known to the world’s leading boxers.
My instructions are verv simple to follow, and you
will find my lessons both interesting and beneficial.
You will be both pleased and surprised at the rapid
progress you will make under my personal guidance.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods,
terms, etc. .Tust write your name and address across
this advertisement and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage. 1 will know what you
mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
534 Belmont Buildings,
SYDNEY.
CIGARETTE
CASE.
It’s a new idea.
Opens with a press of the thumb. Holds
ten cigarettes—Uvo rows of five, standing out
in a most inviting manner.
Xo crushing, no broken ends, no mussiness.
The “HAVONE” keeps a man’s cigarettes
the way he wants them to be kept.
As a gift for soldiers a “HAVOIVB”
Cigarette Case is unequalled.
For Birthday Gifts it is wonderful. It has
class and distinction, and gives a man a
service as unique as it is pleasing.
The ‘‘H AVONE” is practically everlast-
lasting. It is a case any man would be
proud to own.
In Solid Silver, Plain gg/.
Silver, Engine Turned g7/g
Silver, Engraved . g7/g
Silver Plated on White Metal 21/-
Registered Packet Post, 6d. Extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF MY
ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIOAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
h
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
WELL
is
NATURE'S
BEST,
a
Easy-Chair
Comfort on
theßoad ■
The Motorcycle u-'tfhW
iheCracf/e ShrindFrame
c?
iir
Catalogue with pleasure
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Russell St., Melbourne
PATON
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co, Ltd,
„ SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
JUST THE STYLE FOR YOU
—with comfort such as you have never
known. This is the ideal combination you
get in RIGNEY SHOES. There’s a model
to suit every taste, and a shape for every
foot.
We illustrate a choice Willow Calf Derby
Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts, Perforated Vamp,
Lace Face, and Cap. In Black or Tan.
Price - 27,6
Patent Leather same price
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ĥ
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
‘‘The Men’s Exclusive Hijjh-jtrade shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Ed ward Street, BR.IS JAN£
/
I
4
<4
ħ
h
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
\ v
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Jh Australian Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
kr
ĥ
ħ
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE
~ !lmuiw«nvA‘W<i:
~ - 7? Lf* -
*-!
Tyym ®rr '
... ■■- _ ?<■ V •
■ x /
£>><**
/ ✓/ , • : i ;
'jfr
41/
Somewhere in France your, brothers, sons, relatives,
4>r friends are fighting powerful foes. Not only are
they opposed by an enemy equipped with every
death-dealing device known to military science; but
they have to contend with another opponen| whose
attacks are even more insidious and whose efforts
are unceasing—“ General Winter.” v /
The Military Vest has proved a [boon and It Vital
Necessity to men engaged in Trench Warfare during
the Winter season, and to send an Australian Soldidr
one of these Garments is to confer a personal Benefit',
on him and to materially assist the cause of the AlJies
The garments quoted below have all proved their :•
worth in actual use on Active Service.!. \ {\'{ \ (/-
Sheepskin Vests - 12/6
Wool Back and Front. If Khaki-
lined, and having sleeves 17/6
Tan Leather Vests, 11/6
Soft Chrome Tanned. If drill*
lined, 16/6; fleece-lined, 23/6
Rabbit Fur/Vests - 14/9.
Specially treated to renderj ;
vermin-proof. Khaki-lined. ' ffs '>
wool or water-propf lined, 16/$. ! ;
Tan Leather Co« ‘
Wind-guard to sleeves, and kbi
lined. 'lf fleece-lined f,v 1 J
/ in Strong White Calico
LINCOLN, STU
ySpecialish in Mililary Equipjn


h
A Dressy Shoe
Patent Kid Oxford Shoe with dull
Kid collar, neatly perforated facings
and cap. Good shape for comfortable
wear—durable quality throughout.
26/-
Post Free.
m
For Distinctive Footwear,
135 King Street, SYDNEY.
Rheumatism
SCIATICA, GOUT, LUMBAGO, etc.
In the majority of eases of Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatita and similar complaints the
excruciating pain is caused by sharp-pointed
crystals of Uric Acid penetrating the delicate
and highly-sensitive nerves of the body. To
effect a cure this excess of Uric Acid must be
removed, and no treatment that does not aim
at this result will effect a cure.
Dr. Parker s Great Indian
Rheumatic Remedy
goes to the root of the trouble, and by remov-
*■ ing the cause quickly affords rciief and
eventually effects a permanent cure. Read
the following testimonial:—
SEVERE CASE OF RHEUMATISM CURED.
Merino, Vic. —I suffered terrible pain
across the groin, around the loins and hips,
right down to the ankle. I could not sit up
or lie with any comfort. After taking a few
doses of your medicine I could get about. I
am most thankful to you for the benefit I
have received from your wonderful medicine.
Hoping that others will go to you for relief
and kindness. —Your gratefully,
DONALD CAMPBELL.
FREE
Write to-day for FREE
SAMPLE and valuable
Book (postasre 3d.) to
P. PARKER,
111 Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
I H C Gaso-Kero Engines in
small and medium will
produce a given of
powcrr at a k|gfl¥cost than
any suitable for
genedlgpr Sizes available,
4to J|fß. H. P. Stationary,
Porta ole and Traction.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO
OF AUS. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE S'. DNEV M El. BOURNE
169) Adelaide Perth Launceston
ĥ
Where doYou Live
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
At ALICE SPRINGS, CENTRAL AUSTRALIA,
At MOSMAN, SYDNEY,
On the NORTH COAST OF TASMANIA,
WHEREVER you are you will be interested in
our product.
We manufacture LOTTOID PORTABLE
CEILING & WALL-BUILDING SHEETS.
They are the last word in this class of Building
Material. Australian Manufacture by an Australian
Company from Australian and New Zealand raw
materials. Used by the Commonwealth and State
(Governments and leading architects and builders
everywhere.
Patents No. 15744 12/3/’l5.
Patents No. 47450 17/9/’l5.
Reg. Trade Mark LOTTOID, No. 17957.
SEND AT ONCE FOR SAMPLE “ M ” AND PRICE LIST
to
MELBOURNE (Patentees & Manufacturers) Lottofd Pty.
Ltd.. 110-123 Noddle St. Richmond.
BRISBANE : C L. Sadgrove. Courier Buildings, Queen St.
HOBART : Builders Supply Co., Ltd., 160 Collins St
LAUNCESTON: Harrison Bros. & Co., Patterson St.
ADELAIDE!
PERTH f
South & West Australian readers send
direct to Melbourne.
TO RETURNED SOLDIERS.
F RETURNED DISABLED SOLDIERS.
\ Single Men with Thorough Farm
Training who are disabled in upper body
but sound in legs and eyesight might obtain
suitable Permanent Employment as Planta-
tion Overseers in Solomon Islands by writ-
ing to ISLAND INSPECTOR.
BURNS. PHILP & COMPANY T * 'TED,
Sydney.
UiiAnswer
to
the
ħ
Evermore
*ind e '
m
mm
i
Wor
*•*>«
r/
wm
m
-1
•:
ys
This patent Stropper has
solved the question of EASY
SHAVING. The BLADE moves
UP AND DOWN, and the
STROP moves LATERALLY
across the edge, giving the
keenest, smoothest, sharpest
edge possible.
Special adapters provided
with each Stropper for ALL
MAKES of SAFETY RAZOR
BLADES, single or double
edged.
Will last a lifetime, and will
quickly save its cost in Razor
Blade expense.
If unable to procure write:
Box 1003 G.P.0., Sydney; or
Box 14 G.P.0., Auckland, N.Z.
h
The only Stropper in
existence which AUTO-
MATICALLY SHARPENS
a Razor Blade in the
CORRECT “HEEL TO
TOE” MANNER.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE IT.
ĥ
AT present the Wolseley Works are
on War Service, and unable to
supply private customers; but we shall
be pleased to add your order to our
waiting list, to be fulfilled when we
can resume deliveries.
Agents: F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street, Melbounis.
C. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Ade aide.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LTD.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.,
Birmingham, England.
/
■jtitt-uIJ
Collars bearing the brand
Stand away from the crowd as
White stands out from Black.
Sold by Merceis in 3 qualities
Four fold - - 6d.
Linen-faced - 9d.
Superfine Linen-faced, I/-
ħ
When
you buy
you are buying goods that a»e
made in Australia, and GUAR-
ANTEED by the Manufacturers.
He was lounging in a Bourke-street back
bar. He is an actor, but the public has not
yet arrived at the conclusion that he is
excelled by none, and his appearances on
the stage are rather inconspicuous. He was
talking as he leaned on the bar. He usually
is. He was toying with a cigar. His air
was that of a man of means very kindly
disposed towards comparatively humble sur-
roundings. “Yes.” he said, “the great num-
ber of forged five-pound notes about is a
public menace. Do you know, the boss tried
to give me three in my salary this morning!”
“De Oriel”: While the film censor argu-
ment rages I sampled a picture show re-
cently and found the screen occupied by a
film depicting the life of an artist’s model.
After many double exposures and fading
effects, showing the nude lady in a rather
ghostly manner, I suddenly sat up. Young
men in the audience craned their necks, old
fellow’s stood and elderly ladies made click-
ing noises. There upon the screen, and
without any humbug about it, the lady
stood wrapped simply in thought. And
the method of advertising was almost as
daring. All the time the film was showing,
a young person dressed and undressed
unceasingly behind a shadow-screen in an
adjacent arcade.
“Hamer”: Australia now sends away
£400,000 a year to the U.S.A. for pictures.
Occasionally an effort is made to put for-
ward an ambitious Australian film —like the
just-released “Mutiny of the Bounty”—
and the local work compares favorably with
the imported article. Financially, however,
the results are not encouraging, just as an
attempt to run a grocery store for two days
in a year might prove disastrous. The
only hope of re-establishing the business is
to give it very much greater Protection, for
the production of the £400,000 worth of
films, or even half of them, would supply
the local actor and operator with experience
and the boss with a steady enough demand
to make the business pay even at much-
reduced prices.
Another of the chaps from Bert Bailey’s
selection lias accepted an engagement to
play a part in “The Worst Kaiser in
Europe.” George Kensington, who origin-
ally hailed from M.L., goes into camp when
the Sydney season comes to an end. Fred
White has gone forward already; Beresford
Fowler is in khaki in Victoria.
It seems in human nature- for vocalists
to quarrel with their accompanists. In the
Warragul (Vic.) train the other night a
black man was warbling to the music of a
concertina played by a white brother. Of
course they quarrelled over the rendering of
the melody, and Abdallah was fined 40s. for
giving his fellow artist an eye as black as
himself.
“Yarra Ben” : While admitting that some
plays have been “let down” easily of late,
I can’t go arm in arm with “Edson” when
he says (B. 24/8/T6) : “Criticism of stage
plays in Melbourne is such that no man need
fear to be smitten with anything harder
than a puff ball.” Here is the opening of a
critique on the latest Williamson production
in one of the dailies: “Possibly the fact
that the company has been seen in Mel-
bourne in three very poor plays—the second
worse than the first and the third more
deplorable than either —accounted for the
only moderate house on Saturday night,
when ‘The Land of Promise’ was produced.”
One or two more “puff-balls” like this and
the managers will feel hurt.
The curtain has just fallen on Theodore
Hamilton, one of the first U.S. actors to
come this way. That was in IS7B. In
“Ingomar.” “Macbeth” and heavy plays he
was a convincing -mummer, as much like
the new school of slick Yankee drummer
actors as Billy Hughes is like Daniel Belte-
shazzar, the gentleman who didn’t revoke
when he was thrown into the den of lions.
“Jean S.”: Evidently the Yank comedians
of “The Follies of Pleasure” in Melbourne
are feeling the strain of providing unillumi-
nating cross-talk to fill in the intervals when
the comely chorus (which is the backbone of
the show) is off stage changing its clothes.
One of the visitors hints in the press that the
girls are too long away for his comfort.
“The Australian.” he groans, “cannot com-
pare with the American for smartness in get-
ting in and out of costumes.” In view of the
dash of the average Australian chorus girl,
the only explanation can be that the Yankee
chorus girl has much loss to get in and out
of.
SURGE OF SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
My nib is gliding swift and free,
My pile of copy paper
Is trim, and tall, and fine to see,
My brain' is free of vapor.
I feel I am infused to-day
With Springtime’s doping leaven—
I’ll write the great Australian play:
1 will, so help me Heaven!
And not the looked-for play alone,
The long-expected story,
And sing a song in such a tone
They'll catch the strain in Glory.
I want a pen in either hand
To spray my vital forces ;
For Pegasus a prancing band
Of Wirths’ performing horses.
I feel disposed to rock the range,
To grasp the peaks, and twist ’em,
To lash the sea to antics strange,
And crack the solar system.
What rapturous creative throes
This season’s stir affords man!
The penman while the red ink flows
Is mightier than the swordsman.
I’ll write an ode to thrill the horde
As bulky as a stilton ;
I’ll turn out epics by the cord,
And do in Mr. Milton.
My fountain-pen's exuberant flow
Would drain the Bay of Biscay.
Heigho! That’s finished. Now I’ll go
And have a peg of whisky.
EDWARD DYSON.


MAXWELL
“25"
ROADSTER
£290.
TOURING CAR
£3OO.
-yy-r**- “T* ' ■
***•?%
1916 MAXWELL High-priced-Car Features All Included for £3OO.
ELECTRIC STARTER AND ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
DEMOUNTABLE RIMS.
lIIGH-TENSION MAGNETO.
“ONE-MAN” KHAKI TOP.
NEW STREAM-LINE DESIGN.
DOUBLE VENTILATING WINDSHIELD.
(Clear Vision and Rainproof.)
Electric Horn.
Wider Front and Rear Seats.
Aluminium Transmission Housing.
Handsome Rounded Radiator and Hood.
Robe Rail, with Back of Front Seat Leather
Covered.
Linoleum-covered Running-boards and
Floor-boards.
Automatic Tell-tale Oil Gauge.
Heat-treated, Tested Steel Throughout.
Easy Riding and Marvellous Flexibility.
TJnusual Power on Hills and in Sand.
Ability to Hold the Road at High Speed.
Improved Instrument Board, with all Instru-
ments set Flush.
EVERY FEATURE AND EVERY REFINEMENT OF CARS THAT SELL AT TWICE ITS PRICE.
BOWENS LIMITED, 276-8 Castlereag'h Street, Sydney.
■p
KW-
i
HI
V*
/;>
• ‘
Stf™-
ws*©. ;
*•-
«s
..
-a*.
JEFFERY QUAD
No Grade too Steep
No Road too Bad
No Sand too Deep.
Drives, Brakes and Steers on
alt Four Wheels.
Will pull a trailer in addition
to carrying its own load.
Jeffery Quad pulling 24 tons of pig iron through mud up to the axles
As supplied to
WM. ARNO FT LTD.,
ROBERT REID & CO. LTD.,
AUSTRALIAN AGRICULTURAL CO..
DELEGATE MOTOR LORRY CO.,
and others.
CATALOGUES and FULL
PARTICULARS FROM
Bowens Limited,
276-8 Castlereagh St..
... SYDNEY.
Also Agents for Jeffery "4” Pleasure Cars
in 3-, 5- and 7-Passenger Models.
\\
■*—"H
The QUAD has self=locking
differentials, which prevent
slippage of wheels and conse=
quent loss of power.
Jeffery Quad Wiassitt. slum hi y accessibility oj yurts and fine clearance.


sr
KEEPING
FIT “
Roman
Rings,
Dumbells
and
Indian Clubs
will develop the
muscles and add to
the chest measurement
of the man who lives a
sedentary life and who
never takes exercise or
exerts himself physically,
but
FISHERS
PHOSPHERINE
THE GREAT NERVE TONIO
develops brain power, energy,
strengthens the nerves and
aids the digestion.
it also banishes Headache,
Backache, Malaria, Rheuma*
tism and Neuralgia, and
compensates the system for
the waste occasioned by too
violent exercise or prolonged
physical exertion.
STRONG IN DIGESTIVES
RICH IN PHOSPHATES
ALL CHEMISTS & STORES
■J j- per Bottle. Four times the quan*ity 2/6
Chemists,
337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
(\ISiS.P
THE DEAF
HEAR!
1
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
, . , and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjust!!'m.s, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion ,
and for all stapes of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boollet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. 1n0.,45 West 34th St. New York
WESTERN MACHINERY
WHEELED SCOOPS and DRAG SCRAPERS,
PLOUGHS FOR CONTRACTORS,
WESTERN ROAD GRADERS,
ELEVATING GRADERS, RQCK CRUSHERS,
ROAD PLANER and FINISHER,
DUMP CARS, SCARIFIERS.
(Large Stocks Carried).
Catalogs and Full Information from
the Sole Agents.
E. D. MORRISON 8 CO. LTD.,
257 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Belle Vue Hotel
Reconstructed. BRISBANE.
Electric Lift. Perfect Sanitary Arrangements.
Incomparable Position. Easterly Aspect.
Overlooking Botanical Cardens.
| MRS. A. FINNIGAN, Proprietress. __
Wbafan IHCB-16 Tractor
Will do For YOU
Plough
in any ordinary
land 5 to 10 acres
per day—6 inches deep
{ DOUBLE HARROW it.
disc and smootn 1 2 to I 5
acres per day.
Harvest-pull binders or
harvesters getting the
crop oil at the rate ol ' 4
to 20 acres per day
Haul your grain and other
produce to market.
Drive thresher, challcut*
ter, pump, etc.
Works every day the year
around and as many
hours a day as you like.
Enables you to keep up
your acreage with LESS
MEN. and furnishes
power cheaper than
horses.
You ought to find out all
about it.
Apply to—
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
Of AUS Ply Lid
Br,»bi»ne— Sidney - Melbourne
Adeleiae— Perth Launceston
(7J>
m
The Bulletin
Stock Saddle
This latest saddle of ours combines many of our
COMFORT INNOVATIONS in Saddles —the
dinpv pigskin seat, the rough out-flaps for grip, our
G.S. panel with the short stuffing and leather points,
the long girth straps and long flaps. It is fitted up as
illustrated with folded leather leather,
4-bar nickel-plated stirrups and bURCINGJLF. "he
knee-pads are well made and strong and the right shape
for comfort. If you prefer all smooth leather instead of
rough-out say so when ordering, and give your height
and weight.
Price £5-18-6
Freight Free
for Cash
to any port or railway station in N.S.W. or any direct port
in the other States, New Zealand or Fiji.
RING HEAD BRIDLE, With rein and billet in one
piece, and one inch cheeks and rein, 11/6, post free, for
cash. If ordered with Saddle, 10/6.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers & Harness MaKers,
393 George St. and 32 Hunter St., Sydney
How to Treat Your Hair and Complexion
A Few Simple Beauty Hints.
By Mdlle. GABY DESLYS, the well-known Parisian Actress.
YOU ask rue for a few hints on the
treatment of the hair and complexion.
Well, the less “treatment” you give
the skin the better. I do not
believe much in massage, but a
little cream to the face is neces-
sary to counteract the effects of
wind or sun. What cream
would I recommend? Well, I
advise you to us 6 a little mer-
colised wax every night and
again in the morning, after-
washing the face. Ilub it
gently into the skin, then wipe
off any superfluous wax and
dust a little barri-agar over
the face. You will find that
this will be the only “treat-
ment” necessary and will keep
your face fresh and youthful-
looking for all your life. The mercolised
wax removes all the dead outer skin, so
that you have always a fair, fresh com-
plexion like a girl’s.
For the hair, the first and most important
Photo: 11 'rather it Buys.
thing is a good shampoo. Never use any*
thing inferior to wash the hair with. Get
some good stallax from your chemist and use
a teaspoonful in a cup of hot
water. Then rinse the hair
well and it will look bright and
glossy.
A tonic is necessary when the
hair is inclined to fall out more
than it should, and is always
good to use during the spring
and autumn. Then the hair
needs a little —what do you call
it?—stimulant, and for this 1
would advise you to get a packet
of boranium and mix it with
some bay rum ; dab this into the
roots and it will not only stop
the fall, but make your hair
grow long and thick, (live your
hail - a good brushing every night, and that
will be all that you need do.
WA
Blackheads Fly Away.
Instantaneous Remedy for Blackheads, Greasy Skin and Enlarged Pores.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into
general use in the boudoir. It is very
simple, harmless and pleasant. Drop a
stymol tablet, obtained at the chemist’s, in
a tumblerful of hot water. After the effer-
vescence has subsided bathe the face in the
liquid, using a small sponge or soft cloth.
lii a few minutes dry the face and the offen-
sive blackheads will come right off on the
towel. Also the large oily pores immedi-
ately close up and efface themselves natu-
rally. The greasiness disappears and the
skin is left smooth, soft and cool. This
simple treatment is then repeated a few
times at intervals of four or five days, to
ensure the permanence of the result.
drey Hair—Home Remedy.
An old-fashioned Recipe restores Youthful Appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But, on
the other hand, there is no reason why you
should have grey hair if you do not want
it. To turn the hair back to a natural color
is really a very simple matter. One has
only to get from the chemist two ounces of
concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair with a small sponge for a few nights
and the greyness will gradually disappear.
This liquid is not sticky or greasy and does
not injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the
formula.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous hair.
The most Effective Formula ever Discovered.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to'know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient. 4'
Good News for Fat People.
Something New in Obesity Cures.
A London chemist says: “The latest
method of reducing obesity certainly is far
more pleasant and convenient than all pre-
vious methods. It consists merely in eating
clynol berries. The fat person who wants
to reduce without the usual rigid diet, exer-
cise, sweating baths, etc., now puts a few
of these little brown berries in his or her
pocket and eats three or four each day.”
Clynol berries not only eliminate fat from
the body, but also correct the tendency,
which is usually constitutional, to create
fatty matter. No discomfort whatever is
caused by their action; in fact, except for
the loss of superfluous fat and the feeling
of “fitness’-’ so created, you would not be
aware that these little berries were doing
their work.
Local inquiry shows that clynol berries are
not very well known in this country, but
the demand is increasing daily, and any
chemist can quickly procure them if specially
requested to do so.
,3F?V. IK
c a m
'A
Air Cushions
For SOLDIFRS
Cloth
Each Seam Sewn-
All Valves Guaranteed-
Name Stamped Free of Charge
ROTHWELL’S LTD.,
Edward Street,
BRISBANE |
h
A £l4 Machine
With 5 Drawers,
£8 10s.
15 YEARS' WRIT' CX
. GUARANTEE.
Packed and Delivered Tree.
A.N. A. Sewing Machine Co.
25 QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
(near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
Also at Errol Street, North Melbourne; 7 Arcade,
Adelaide; Baird’s Arcade, Perth; 39 George Street,
Launceston; and 123 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
N. 8.: Thanks. Yes, still alive, and sun-
ning himself.... Glendale: An overworked idea; but
you’ve handled it very we 11... .8.A.H.: (1) Not sure
on the point, try the High Court; (2) you can lay
an information for non-compliance with the Stamp
Duties Act W. J.H.: That new war joke died early
in the S’African dust-up... .Xsoa: (1) Dealt with
in B. 30/12/’l5; (2) depends on the authority of
the agent and the form of the document. Insist on
receiving an interim policy at the earliest possible
moment... . Wyberba: Yes; address quite sufficient.
. ...Pat K.: Don’t know the bird; and, anyhow, it
wouldn’t be allowed to sing here... .A.G.: (1) Stock
inspectors are appointed by competitive examination,
the date of 'the next tests depending on the absorp-
tion of men already qualified; (2) salary £3OO to
£4OO ; (3) permanent, if officer-is efficient; (ti-
the Chief Inspector of Stock, 41 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney, will supply syllabus and other information.,.;'
Green Ink: Cannot acknowledge or return pars
11.M.5.; Doesn’t reach its point swiftly and directly.
. ...Zred Noysie: Lame... .A.8.C.: A mild, lady-
like thing.... Saltbush: Sentiment 18 carat; verse,
Brummagem.... M.K.: “Wimin” is out of scansion
all through. “Life’s Cameos” commonplace....
Worried Hun: Not up... .R.L.W.: Rather smart.
Go on.... Oliver Cromwell: Not bad enough...,
A.P.: Have it your own way... .L.L.R.: Poor,
tangled yarn... .H.E.C.: Doesn’t work....Rehtwol:
No A.G.8.: Too obvious W. 8.: You can’t
fool us you were as drunk as all that on three-
pen’orth of beer....A. Jay: Pretty clumsy adapta-
tion. .. .G.R.H.: What does it mean ?.... Wild-
flcwers: Nice moral note about nothing in particular.
....Housewife: Parodies must be extra-special to
pass... .R.M.8.: That spring rhyme hasn’t a hint of
music in it... .G.R.H.: Tooth-pick abomination
damned it at the start V.L.G.: Dull, artificial
business... .L.R.F.: “Rarest Zephyr” and “Vacant”
no: up... .R.H.E.: It doesn’t lament to much pur-
pose.... Ranker: Bumps and slops... .C.W.: Inter-
est in “Swaps” too remote. Also please observe
that we are “at home” in Australia, not in some
other country.... Uno: The goat gets a trifle tedious.
. ...M.8.P.: Not quite. —R.S.: We won’t stand the
rhyme “orchestra” and “far”.... Woolly Lamb:
Lead it off the premises. .Rushbush: Hopeless.
....Christina: Cabbage and Charlie Chaplin make
us bitter—.Peeta: Not enough in it .W.H.
(Chicago): Sentiment all right, but verse doesn’t
get anywhere. .. .All Australia: Put your name and
address on each MS., and don’t waste time writing
covering letters... .Elsa: Middling verse, limping a
little, but commonplace... .J.L.8.: Kipling and
mud. You’ve even stolen Rudyard’s title... .C..J.:
I? the music of “Australian Soldier’s Song” is half
as bad as the words you ought to get six months for
the double horror... .R.G.G.: Hardly... .Bendigo
Woman: Well, it’s easy enough to ask that question
without using eight bumpy lines .Stars and
Stripes: You appear to have the sense of humor of
a German count C.G.: Obscure and lumpy....
M.N.: No use... .Poeticule: No sense, metre or
.purpose; only an occasional shaky rhyme... .Bash:
The bladdery reputation of that person has now
been protected by military law... .G.R.11. (Adel-
aide): Can’t get the point... .G.R.H.: “Viking”
has merit, but the verse is faulty and some of the
phrasing poor. .. . J.S.L.: Sorry, but "n/ying Com-
rade” is miles below standard L.A.G.: Clumsy
attempts at rhyme... .5.0. G.: Interest very slight.
... .What’s Wanted: But what happened on the
train?... .D.G.M.: This isn’t an information bureau.
Go and measure the thing yourself... .M.C. A.: You
hove sympathy, but you don't say anything
It.L.F.: Parts of it vivid, but not up H.H.M.:
More bleat than call A.L.S.: Sincere, but not
attractive Black Hawk: Wobbly yarn in poor
verse Franklin: No merit J.K.R.: “Cat” yarn
spoiled by delight in describing dirt.... Fernleaf:
“The Hells of Home” seemed a promising title,-but
wc found they were only hills. Verse nearly good.
. ...E.R.C.: If you had a new subject, avoided com-
monplaces, took care of your grammar and metre
and were not so slovenly, you might write.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.C.: Too late and too crude.... A.T.M.W.: Very
small and ancient... .Cumshaw: Certainly; we are
always looking for them. Tit us... .E.S.McG.: For
our approval or otherwise? Otherwise... .A. N.: You
can't draw. . . .H.E.R. and F.: No, thanks. .. .K.A.:
Suggestive, stupid and badly drawn... .E.V.E.: You
must be very young... .M.M.E.: But where's the
joke ?
Efficiency and economy! Premier Hol-
man, for instance, opened an Aviation School
at Richmond (N.S.W.) last week, and
incidentally provided cold poultry and trim-
ming for 450 of the Best Fed. The national
advantage of feeding the Best Fed at the
, public expense is, of course, clear to every-
one.
“Assam”: The idea of extending the
early-closing principle to drapers’ shops
deserves support. In our district a fur coat
is called a ‘‘soldier’s allowance.” Damsels
who before the war were modestly-habited
young tilings are now unrecognisable as
they pass down the street —women of
fashion and frill, either married and living
on their absent soldier, or unmarried and
waiting to see if their choice comes back
unmaimed, and sharing his six bob a day
in the meantime. What? No nice girl would?
They’re all nice to the draper. In one
hcuse near here, where there are still sev-
eral eligibles in work, the mother draws
her one enlisted son’s pay, and most of it
goes in glad rags. The daughter is “en-
. gaged” to a young man at the Front. She
gets a whack of his pay and spends it on
pretties—or what she considers pretties.
And at the shack in the district where most
often tin* “benevolent” visitor used to call
before the war, the walls are now festooned
with fal-lals, bought by the money of a
couple of relatives who are in the shell-
z< ne. The fighting man goes away to do
his bit for Australia; and the girl lie leaves
behind him does her bit to make things as
bad as she can for Bill when he comes home.
For that, of course, is what the purchase
of fal-lals with borrowed money amounts to.
Poor old Bill will have to pay the Nil
presently—the things are really only got on
tick.


5^5
5^5
>•"
M o.
m
r
1
IK
m
%
i ii
ss
'M
r-
n
=ac
\\
mini- i,f
/
#
■f-V
'.vr:
I
iM-
-4
■^9.
m
%r/.
>
m
n
15
vl
m
m
ffi
■:m
>#
f-1
k
b
*95
325?->
><s
c?r.
Ml
m
fV
UVV
HP
\\v
I^/,
i3i <?
%M
m
lire \ j I
1
w
in
rkrt
vTI
i»
Phillips Brooks —that man of keen perceptions
—once said: “A school song in the heart of a
child will do as much for his character as a fact
in his memory,or a principle in his intellect.” In
other words, music, as a means of culture, is a
potent factor in human civilisation. This being
true, how essential it becomes that the young
mind should drink in nothing but the best! Let
him practise, certainly, but not rely on his own
puny efforts as a stimulus to imagination.
& BEALE PLAYER PIANO
combines in one instrument the best means
of attaining ideal results. The finest compo-
sitions in the musical world can be played on
the roll and used to impress on the child’s mind
the full beauty of correct rhythm and tone-
color. Aside from the enjoyment you will
personally derive from the instrument this
educational value is a highly important
feature of the “Beale” Player Piano. And at
all times it is available for hand-playing.
The “Beale ” Patent Tuning System ensures
an instrument always in tune—and this
despite the great amount of use a Player
always gets. If you will call at our Show-
rooms, we shall have pleasure in demon-
strating the instrument.
SHOWROOMS: 333 George Street
(Opp. Equit. Buildings), SYDNEY ;
232 King Street, Newtown.
‘Beale © G li<l
FACTORY: 41-47 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale.
Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide.
VICTORIA: Maples, in af.l Melbourne Suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston.
QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Kent Street, Maryborough; Flinders Street, Townsville;
Rockhampton; Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA -ENGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin* s-de-luxe ;
Staterooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms,
Private Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Regular sailings from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). v
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 16.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 20.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 23.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 27.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 30.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 80.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL. £700.000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £387,500.
DmECTons: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY.
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WOULD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING RUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
i(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AjUTUORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
RAID-UP (30th June, 1916) . . £1,197,393
RESERVE FUND £85,000
lIISAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 37 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— Mark Sheldon, Esq., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Frank N. Yarxvood,
Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.; George F.
Todman, Esq.; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth.
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
World. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 212,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091.669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. IV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking 80.
of Sydney, [imited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
..£2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,875,000 0 0
. . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,875,000 0 0
Directors :
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. IT. Moses. M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C. T. F. Ivnox, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Honorary Director.
Auditors: J. J. Brenan, Esq.; and F. AV. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: IT. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S. Littleton;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. Manager; F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the AVorld.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£l,500,0oo)
Paid-up . • • • • • 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,118,606
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest, for
fixed periods, and
transact* all othar u»ual Bank ins businw*.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BEIWE*,-
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT
ACCELERATED SERVICE, CALLING AT
AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (Fiji) and HONOLULU (Hawaii).
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction vv:ththe_ CANADIAN *
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAI LAivr^,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
t Twin Screw. * Triple Screw. Fitted with Cabin? De Luxe, Suites, Bedstead Rooms, Lifts, Laundry,
Nursery, Wireless, etc.
AROUND THE WORLD BOOKINGS, RETURNING VIA CHINA AND JAPAN, OR VIA
SUEZ CANAL OR SOUTH AFRICA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco.
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Fine.
STEAMERS SAIL FROM WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
*MOAN A, 12th October. *MAITAI, 9th November.
Steamers leave Sydney—sth October, 2nd November.
Passengers Transfer at Wellington to the Mail Steamer immediately on arrival.
Vessels stay 24 hours at Papeete, “The Pearl of the Pacific.”
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PEACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers Trading to America
R.M.S. Niagara and R.M.S. Maliura,
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing Nineteen Hays’ Stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
Winter Twrcto Fiji
Lcvuka,
Suva,
Lautoka,
Samoa **«. Friendly Islands
Monthly Sailings from Sydney and Auckland.
T.S.S. ATUA (3444 tons). S.S. TALUNE (2087 tons).
GRAND PACIFIC HOTEL at Suva now open.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street,
Tonga
Sydney.
Something Unique in
ĥ
Island Tours
Combining the Scenic Beauties of the Solomons with the
Grandeur of New Britain and Surrounding Islands.
7 Weeks’ Cruise through an Ever-changing
Panorama of Beautiful Tropical Scenery.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PhILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
<4,
Directors:
£3,500,000
£2,675.000
£3,500,000
£9.675.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Macllellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, M.t.C,
The lion, Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London office-29 Threadneedle St, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. ~ .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECi. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
•T. RTTRRELb FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
ħ
JBank° f Sustralta
SYDNEY. I
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/'
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
ncnn Agencies at Post Offices
j n Australia and Papua.
Interest at 00/O 0 /
per annum w /o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON' MILLER, Governor
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS LOTION
Quickly removes SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ansurmg_A__CLEAß COMPLEXION.
The slightest Rash, faintest Spot, irritable Pimples,
disfiguring Blotches, obstinate Eczema disappear
by applying
SULPHOLINE
which renders the skin spotless, soft, clear,
supple, comfortable.
FOR 42 YEARS
SULPHOLINE
HAS BEEN THE REMEDY FOR
Eruption*
Pimples
Radness
Psoriasis
Roughness
Rashes
Eczema
Scurf
Acne
Blotches
Spots
Rosea
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialist*,
J. Pkppkr&Co. , Ltd.,Bedford Laboratories, London,
S.E., England, and can be obtained from any
chemists and stores through ool the world.
Quickly remove* the effect* ot Bunscorch.
THfc
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
- £500,000.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
Xhe “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Used the
World Over
I
53
MOTOR
...CARS
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
WEST AUSTRALIAN, SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
VICTORIAN and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
DIMBOOLA, Friday,
Sept. 22 and Oct. 20.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
PARINGA, Sept. IC.
RUPARA, Sept. 23.
MORIALTA, Sept. 30.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable utter
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUltili & CO.. LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY’.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
"Zealandia,” "Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with YVireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
Every Three Weeks
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
via
SAMOA-HONOLULU
and
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
19 Days to San Francisco.
29 Days, to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
Sailings from Sydney:—
OCT. 4, OCT. 25, NOV. 15, DEC. 6.
\pply:— OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom, via Suez Canal, Cape of Good Hope,
Torres Straits.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons. t
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine. Surgeon and
Stewardess. Electric Fans.
FARE TO LONDON OR LIVERPOOL, £4B.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
TWEED,' RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COUPS
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issueu in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up to-
date liners for SYDNEY’, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer. £6 B.=. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, U BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Ureams
of the
Past
THE monotonous and
hard work of house-clean-
ing, dusting and polishing,
becomes a dream of the past when
you have an O-CEDAR Polish-MoD.
TT puts an end, forever, to
*■“ the constant getting down
on your hands and knees
and the back - breaking
stooping to clean, dust and
polish hardwood floors, etc. And
no more stretching to dust the
tops of doors, the tops of tall furni-
ture, open rafters, mouldings,
etc. Neither do vou have to
crawl under the
bed to dust; nor
sit on the stairs
to dust and
polish the steps
or banisters one
by one.
Pleasures
of_ the
Present
UiiiilllillillllllllilllJll
UIU
Try It At Our Risk
Your dealer will supply you with O-Cedar.
VVe take all risk, because we guarantee to
please you. Put it to every dusting - , clean-
ing and polishing test. You will be surprised
at the gratifying results.
Catalogues and Dealer Samples and Prices can he had from
BRIGHT & CO., 37 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents.
Also at BRISBANE.
Manufactured by
Channell Chemical Co., Factory: Chicago, U.S.A.
Offices: London Toronto Buenos Aires
Cable Address: ‘Ocedar.’
Q(®darJJop
Polish
[Registered in principal countries]
I
BE GOOD
TO YOUR
COMPLEXION
USE
Nyal’s
Face
Cream
1/6 & 2/6 per jar.
FOR SALE BY
CHEMISTS ONLY
AMf- AUSIRALIANS visiting London
should read the liiuxisu Austkal-
w< \ e il ' V — an illustrated payer
eontauung mail and cable news from Aus-
ualia, and news of Australians in Europe
vi l j at . * 101 ? e - Australians are cordially iu-
nj. l „° ,y islt tlle Burnsii Austualasiax
hnrn ‘ he O^lCeS - 115 High 110 -
Immi Ijondon > W.C, where, they can see the
tolpnii^ Pai3eiS ' j meet . their friends, use tne
aD< * oljta i n information without
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
iiiiiiiiHiiMi}
CURES' Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
UKEEN, 210 Lambeth Road, London, Eng»
Insbt on Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes.
h
RAMEY’S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay
Fever, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10/-, post free.
Write for Free Pamphlet.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY.
49b Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ĥ
A Good Day s Sport
and a good bag are
assured by using
“NITRO CLUB”
and “ARROW”
STEEL
LINED
Waterproofed
Smokeless Cartridges
Made in 8.10, 12, 16, 20,24 and 2S gauge
Loaded in London with the
popular English powders.
Obtainable from leading dealers
everywhere.
Catalogue 'post-free on request
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Carttidge Co.
Woolworth Bldg., New York City
St. Stephens House, Westminster, S. W.. London
This interior steel band, the lining of all
‘Nitro Club” and "Arrow” cartridges, gives
great strength where it is needed most, and
extraordinary penetrative power.
REMINGTON
| UMC
Australian Manager, D. D. BRYANT, Box 680, Melbourne.
ħ
A case for
Wincarnis
A
nc
r
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
—the red to nourish the
body, the white to fight
disease. In Anaemia—or
bloodlessness the red
corpuscles are more or less
deficient. Thus the blood
cannot provide sufficient
nourishment for the body.
Therefore the face be-
comes white and “ pasty ”
—theeyesbecomedulland
“ heavy and a feeling
of intense weariness per-
vades the whole system.
To overcome Anaemia,
the blood supply needs re-
charging with red corp-
uscles. And it is here that
h
possesses such wonderful
power Because being a
blood-maker, ‘Wincarms
creates a wealth of new
rich, red blood, which
brings theroses back to the
cheeks—gives a sparkle to
the eyes—and surcharges
the whole body with new
vitalityand new life. That
ts why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘ Wincarms.
Begin to get
well TO-DAY.
‘ Wincarnis' is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarn s Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘ Wincarnis ’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/■ and 6/6. but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, wri e direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 5/7 Barrack St., Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding; Biles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
DAIMLER
sotor Carriages
Vehicles-
Agricoltbral Tractors
™t DAIMLER COMPANY w
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
ĥ
ħ
KING OF ALL METAL POLISHES
Keeps automobilefittings new and makes
all metals a pleasure to look at. The only
safe polish for aluminum. Made of the
finest oils—no acid or ammonia used.
Does the work quickly and gives a last-
ing polish. Sold in two size cans by all
Grooerv, Hardware and Drug Stores.
hook for the Photo on Can
h
✓
“ARAISiS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: "1 like the Celebrated ‘AIIABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest 1 have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the siarna-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/-and 2/8.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


Superfluous HAIRS!
LADIES ! Are you troubled with super-
fluous hairs on your face? I will send
you full directions and advice on how to
get rid of them for 1/-. Posted to any
address under plain cover..
M. SEEKER, 203 King St., Newtown, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
U/ HEREAS by an Order of the High Court of
vv Justice Chancery Division made in the matter
of the Estate of FREDERICK AUGUSTUS LAW-
RENCE deceased and in an action of Lawrence v.
Fitch & Others (1916 L. 820) the following inquiry
was directed namely:—
“1. An inquiry who upon the death on the 9th
May 1915 of the Intestate Frederick Augustus
Lawrence deceased became beneficially entitled to
any personal estate of his as to which he died
intestate and if more than one in what shares and
proportions and whether any such persons are since
dead and if so who are their legal personal repre-
sentatives.”
NOTICE is hereby given that any person or
persons claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry is or are by himself or themselves or by his
or their Solicitors on or before the 16th day of
December 1916 to come in and prove their claims at
the Chambers of Mr. Justice Sargant and Mr. Justice
Younger at the Royal Courts of Justice, Strand,
London, England, and to enter their names and full
particulars of their claims in a book kept for that
purpose in Room No. 299 at the said Royal Courts
of Justice or in default thereof they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Thursday, the 21st day of December 1916 at 12
o’clock noon at the said Chambers, Room No. 297, is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Dated this 25th day of July 1916.
RICHD. WHITE,
Master.
NOTE: LAURA LOUISA MORLEY, a sister of the
said Frederick Augustus Lawrence was living, in
Athens in or about the year 1899 and has not since
been heard of.
EDWARD LAWRENCE FITCH, a nephew of the
said Frederick Augustus Lawrence left England in
the year 1884 and went to reside in Australia. He
has not been heard of since 1897 when he was then
residing at Roebourne West Australia.
FINNIS, DOWNEY, LINNELL & CHESSHER,
Solicitors, 5 Clifford Street, London, W.
Or TLET
Deep Well Pumping Engines
Cook’s Deep Well Pumping Engines
for Non-flowing Artesian or Tube Wells
have the following special features:
No Dead Centre —will always start when the steam is turned
Perfectly Uniform Motion, due to separate adjustable valves
for up and down strokes.
Flow of Water Steady and Continuous, the pump bucket
discharging on the upper stroke and the top plunger dis-
rharging on the down stroke. .
Engine Revolves entirely to one side, allowing sufficient room
for withdrawal of rods and pump gear
Stock sizes
6 x 24.
£55
8 x 24
£BO
8 x 36.
£95
VERTICAL BOILERS.
Our VERTICAL BOILERS are specially constructed to
our Specification, and are suitable for a Working Pressure of
1001 b. per square inch.
The Plates used are Siemens-Martin Steel Special Boiler
Quality, tested to Lloyds’ requirements. Angles and Rivets Siemens’
Ste Vertical Seams of Boiler Shell are Double Riveted, Circular Seams
Single Riveted, and in strict accordance with the requirements of the
Machinery and Scaffolding Act.
Ample Mudholes are placed round Boiler Shell and are opposite one
end of each-Tube. Mudholes and manholes are fitted with Compensating
RillgS Spring Lock-up Safety Valve is fitted, also two Sets of Water
Gauge Mountings and Inspector's Test Cock, in addition to all the usual
mountings of the highest grade.
Every Boiler is tested to 2001 b. ner sq. inch cylinder
pressure. Certificate of Test supplied if necessary.
Write for our 364-page Illustrated
Priced Catalogue.
Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.,
142-156 Albert Street,
BRISBANE.
ft
c
H
bkpFhwm
IN
BANANA LAND
There’s no doubting the honorable inten-
tions of this advertiser in a highly-respect-
able old paper at Ipswich:—
WORKING MAN, 42, wishes to correspond with
Woman, 80 to 35, view maternity. Address: ,
this Office.
Queensland Treasury returns show that
the State is £183,000 worse off at the end
of August than it was at the corresponding-
time last year. But that doesn’t matter.
The other day the Treasury committed itself
to about half a million for the purchase of the
Chillagoe railway—a dubious asset —and
about £200,000 for the purchase of Cecil
Plains, which may easily prove another
Jimbour. Financial ability in the Northern
State consists mainly in a delightful uncon-
cern as to the significance of figures.
Fihelly’s Bill in the Bananaland Assembly
to abolish capital punishment is Kingstonian
in its brevity and directness. “The sen-
tence of punishment by death shall be no
longer pronounced or recorded, and the
punishment of death shall be no longer
inflicted,” is the simple, unadorned clause
that does the trick.
There is trouble up North, too. Minister
John Adamson accepted the position of vice-
president of the Universal Service League
and has been carpeted by the Caucus.
Abandon the League or the portfolio —that
is alleged to be the machine’s ultimatum.
What sort of a Labor party would we have
had to-day if the workers had put a muzzle
on the minority 25 years ago? Every re-
form that the world ever saw sprang out of
a miserable minority; and the moment you
shut the mouth of minorities that moment
progress begins to stop.
Bowen has become joyous now that the
erection of the big Elliott copper-refinery has
begun. A smelter is also to be erected to
treat the refinery residues. When the coal
deposits on the river are worked Bowen will
be well on the way to become a busy indus-
trial port. Townsville, full of jealousy, is
gnashing its teeth and anxiously looking
around for a benefactor with the old Philp
pull. But alas! times have sadly changed.
How worthless are the penalty clauses in
the Arbitration Acts has been demonstrated
once more by the Maekay wharf-lumpers.
A few dozen of them struck over a small
matter, and 20,000 people were reduced to
the verge of starvation. Of course, it was
nobody’s business —least of all the Minister’s
—to intervene in such a situation. The idea
that the Government represents the com-
munity and that a community has rights
never seems to occur to Ministers when a
handful of employees and employers start
choking one another.
The Referendum Bill before the Assembly
is full of possibilities There is a provision
giving the early-closing movement priority
of hearing. But as the licensed victuallers
were first in with their petition signed by
86,000 electors, the question arises whether
they are not entitled to put the first question,
in which case Bung by clever manoeuvring
might force Cold Tea into combating his
proposal instead of merely clamoring for six
o’clock.
While in Brisbane Australia’s forester
G -G. had a heart-to-heart talk with the
people in the timber trade. Incidentally his
Ex. supplied the information that his shack
was almost entirely decked out with red
cedar. “Polished,” quoth he, “it is a
beautiful wood ; yet your settlers here build
sheds with it and smother its graces with
paint!”
Some genius in Queensland wanted to
build a house the other day, and he reckoned
he would do the thing properly and hire
three architects instead of one. It might
have answered if the three had worked
together; but he hired one to design the
foundations and another to attend to the
first floor and the third to put his ideas into
the second storey. As they didn’t consult
with one another there is just the sort of
mess that might have been expected. Any-
how, if nobody was mad enough to build a
house that way, it is exactly what has
happened in connection with the sugar in-
dustry. Somebody fixed the rates of wages,
and somebody else fixed the price of cane,
and a third party decided what sugar should
be sold for; and incidentally there are
troubles over the wharf-lumping of sugar, and
the whole business is bubbling and seething.
THE INSULT.
SISSY AH W ONG: “Give its a bit.”
BILLY AN SONG: "Will I?”
SISSY AH WONG: “Go on, yer dirty Jew.”
“Itau” on the vegetable Hun: —
Queensland Department of Lands now admits that
prickly-pear is its master. Officers told the Public
Works Commission the other day -that every known
poison had been tried, and that the only visible
hope now lay in Oliver Cromwell Roberts’s gas. The
official estimate of abandoned country is a trifle under
4,000,000 acres, and a further 14,000,000 acres will
soon have to be included. Roughly, 1,000,000 acres
are captured by the curse every year. With
Roberts’s gas there are drawbacks; it is not very
effective during dry weather, and the war has cut
off the supply of an essential in its produc-
tion. The Under-Sec. was asked if the build-
ing of railways would help, but he instanced
areas which had been abandoned quite close
to existing lines. The real trouble is that the pear
fight has not been enthusiastically conducted. Fur-
ther, nearly every district has its peculiar features,
and these must be considered when planning attacks.
Clearly one of the first jobs of the Federal Bureau of
Science and Industry should be to see if the pear
cannot be made commercially useful. It is known to
possess certain elements which can be extracted.
Certainly something must be done. Even if only the
million acres now eaten up every year were saved
it would be a great achievement.
The State purchase of Cecil Plains recalls
the palmy days of Bananaland squattocracy.
It and Jimbour, close at hand, were centres
of political intrigue in the Mcllwraith-
Griffith days. It was there, too, that about
a dozen men were drowned during a hood,
one of the survivors being the present Min-
ister for Lands. The run is to be used by
the Government in an attempt to supply
Brisbane and other centres with a cheap
State chop. Drought hits the district hard
at times, but Ministers say they are going to
show what can be done by fodder conserva-
tion.
“Paddymelou” writes a page of history in
advance: —•
About the year 1918 the pricklv-pcar problem
became intolerably acute in Queensland. The State
in desperation resorted to an old trick and imported
an “expert” from the U.S.A, When he arrived the
expert set to work to peruse volumes of press clip-
pings on the subject in order that he might learn
something about his job. Eventually he decided to
put the curse through a chaff-cutter and drop the
minced pear into a silo. Then he gave forth the
startling discovery that prickly pear made good
ensilage for pigs. Queensland is now the greatest
hog-producing country in the world, and pear land is
at a premium. It has since come to light that the
Yank’s plan was suggested by a writer in the
Brisbane press in 1912, but as he was merely an
Australian nobody listened to him.
Died at Innisfail, Francis Meyrick
Armstrong, one of the men who really did
something to develop the North. Armstrong
lived on the Johnstone River for about 30
years, conducting the agency of the A.U.S.N.
Co., goldmining and sugar farming, the
latter extensively and successfully. He
had a good heart and was one of the best
all-round sports up yonder.
The owners of Cecil Plains, the big Dalby
freehold, made a sort of coupon deal with
the Ryan Government. The price to be
paid is £2 per acre; but the vendors are
lending the Government the purchase money
for 25 years at 4 per cent., and are also
providing £lOO,OOO at 41 per cent, to help
build a railway to the property. So the
Government, in a way, fulfils one portion of
the Labor programme by nationalising land
and simultaneously smashes another plank
by performing the trick with a P.N. The
P.N. is the recognised currency of Labor
Governments now. They get rid of rent,
which could be reduced by taxation, and
fasten on to the shoulders of the people
interest, which can’t be reduced by anything.
Returned.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When low 1 bent in the Anzac trench
1 pined for a glass and the sight of a wench;
I damned myself for the fool I’d been
To leave the Downs for a warlike scene;
And vowed that when I got home again
You’d take my lot of the risk and pain.
I’d have my share of the girls and fun,
And you could collar my cursed gun,
And all the honor that was my due
I'd hand it on as a gift to you.
But now I’m back on the Downs once more.
And smoke my pipe with a genial score,
There’s something peggin’ away inside,
A curious thing that I thought had died.
It says: “Get back to your mates, old man,
And do your bit, as you know you can;
It's better to share in the shot and shell.
And taste the broth that is brewed in Hell
Than dodge the brunt of the Teuton-Turk
And laze at home with the crowd who shirk.
“It’s better to die for the boys you knew
Than loaf at home while they die for you.”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 9, 1916.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
I wouldn’t have had a thing to tell you
to make your hair curl or your flesh creep
if on Saturday Lady Goojd-Adams hadn t
opened a Wistaria Fete in aid of the annual
appeal for the funds of the Salv’army.
Other and similar outbreaks occurred in
most of the suburbs; so you can guess what
an exciting time we’ve had.
The open-air concert, which was post-
poned from last week in consequence of the
tearful state of the weather, happened at
the Exhibition yesterday, and was about
tne last spasm of a long-drawn-out “Do
Without Week.” There was a big crowd,
which made the Patriotic Fund Ist. lolb.
heavier.
The Residential Club for Returned Sol-
diers and Sailors will soon be hatched.
Arrangements have been completed for the
purchase of Corona, Dr. Peter Bancroft’s
old house —a valuable property in a central
position. Meantime, while waiting for the
present tenant’s lease to run out, the com-
mittee is arranging a carnival, to be held in
October. The weary old ‘‘Queen” business
is being worked over again. On Monday
Lady Goold-Adams is to open a Japanese
tea-house in Market Square, to help run up
the cash takings for the Citizens’ candidate,
Mrs. Hetherington.
A story comes from France that a Ghurka
was describing the temple of some Australian
cobbers. “A large iron pipe hangs down,
with a round end, full of holes. When they
come from the trenches all the Australians,
one by one, strip off their clothes, and wor-
ship the iron thing, from which water spurts.
They repeat this prayer: ‘Oo’ Ah. By
Cripes. Bosker!’ ”
Nerida Brown, who has been distinguish-
ing herself as an amateur singer with more
than ordinary possibilities, left for Sydney
this week, and will study at the Con-
servatorium. We think Miss Brown is a
clever actress, too, and we are going to
hear more of her, or blame you for spoiling
her.
Passed out last week, the widow of
Robert Cran, who, away back in the ’6o’s,
started a sugar-refinery at Yengarie. When
things began to peter out on the Mary he
migrated to Bundaberg and laid the founda-
tions of the big Millaquin mill. The old
lady, who shared her husband’s vigorous
pioneering, had survived 94 years of North-
ern climate.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


Modem Brewety iSeries
lIA
pi
m
m®
m
liin
m
m
IS
!f)
*
%■
h
h
; /
//
rs
■4*
-=?•
k
ioT
=i?
Q
-Xx
LIW«
S Vjve'lc"
•■Uiiu.
§£i
M
2
SN the Racking Department—which is
shown above—many thousands of gallons
of Tooth’s XXX Ale are put into barrels every
hour. Then, in order that a thirsty public may
experience no shortage of its favorite beverage,
these barrels are sent out—hermetically sealed
—to the various distributing centres. For a long
drink and a cool drink, order Tooth’s XXX Ale.
Tooth s xxx
Draught Ale
for the Summer thirst.


Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sale for
children.
h
Carters
HTTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG
perhaps so surrounded with inflammation and
swollen that when you press your finger on
the inflamed part it leaves the impression?
If so, under the skin you have poison, which
defies the remedies you have tried. Perhaps
your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round
which the skin may be discolored. The disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of
the power to walk. You may have attended
hospitals and been told your case is hopeless,
or advised to submit to amputation, but do
not. Try the great British Remedy:—
GRASSHOPPER
Ointment and Pills
which will give certain relief.
And for Poisoned Hands, House-
maid’s Knee, Carbuncles, Absces-
ses, Snake and Insect Bites, &c.
Sold in England at 1/3 & 31- per box.
ALBERT & CO., Albert House, Farrlngdon St.,
LONDON, Eng.
Can be obtained at any Drug Store, and
stocked by all the Wholesale Houses in the
Commonwealth.
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALISE
Tk/O
LINES
KIPJ 5
S
w
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS
TO
ĥ
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZT /iONTER § T NEWCASTLE
The Authors’ Alliance
Is prepared to consider and place MSS.
Literary work of all kinds dealt with by
experts who place Authors’ interests first.
Twenty years’ experience. Write for prospectus.
100 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE,
And at London and New York.
8
s .*
*
\Y B Allf.n’s
AUMN
walnut
STAIN.
ħ
Bosiock.
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
—Dame Fashion has cast that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostoek range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostoek soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
Bostock No.
P 6141
h
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
A fcharming selection of Bostock shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
832
ĥ
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Two Points About Bostock’s Shoe Polish
worth remembering’:— FlßST: It gives a quick, brilliant and lasting polish.
SECOND: It nourishes and preserves leather. These two reasons in themselves
should be sufficient to induce
you to at least try
BOSTOCK POLISH.
Colors: Black, Brown,
Dark Brown and White.
In Tins, 6d. Creams, in 2oz. Tubes, 6d; 4oz. Bottles, 1/-
Sold Everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF TIIE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustvalta
AT 30th JUNE, 1916
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Deposits. Accrued Interest and .
llebate .. .. .. .. 29,745,868 1 8
Bills Pax able and other Liabilities 2,301,283 12 11
Savings Bank Dkpartmknt—
Depositors’ Balances .. 9,477,895 18 11
(Wiih Interest accrued)
Capital Debentures Issued
Reserve Fund 73,534 9 9
Redemption Fund .. ~ 73,534 9 9
41,732,116 13 0
Contingent Liabilities—
OuL-tandi' g Credits per contra 40,237 19 8
£41,772,354 12 8
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances
Australian Notes ..
Money at Short Call in London
Investments
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value,
£6,858,523 4 4)
Commonwealth Government
Securities
(face value, £1,525,500 0 0)
Fixed Deposits of other Banks
Bills Receivable in London and
Remi' tances in Transit
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances t<> Customers and
other sums due to the Bank..
Bank Premises
£ s d
4,330,988 9 5
15,303 830 10 0
5,505,636 0 0
6,752,798 14 4
1,503,083 6 9
969,000 0 0
1,314,779 1 6
5,721,356 15 10
321,743 15 3
41,732,116 13 0
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra 40,237 1 9 8
£41,772,354 12 8
C t.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Reserve Fund
~ Redemption Fund
£ s d
.. 46,949 4 4
.. 46,949 4 4
£93,898 8 8
By Profit for Half year ended SOth
June, 1916 ..
£ 8 d
93,898 8 8
£93,898 8 8
Cr.
RESERVE *UND.
To Balance
£ 8 d
73,534 9 9
£73,534 9 9
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and I.oss
’ Account of one half of the Net
Profits ;
£ s d
26,535 5 6
46,949 4 *
573.534 9 9
REDEMPTION FUND.
Dr.
To Balance
£ s d
.. 73,534 9 9
£73.534 9 9
By Balance .. •• * *
Transfer from Profit add Loss
” Account of one half of ihe Net
Profits
£ s d
26,585 6 5
46,949 4 4
£73,534 9 9
Gold Coin held for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth
£9,202,900 0 0
The Hank also holds in Gold Coin for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth
YVe certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the BftnU, is true and correct.
11. T. AKMITAGE,
D. B. MUIUtoCH,
DENISON MIU-Elt,
Governor.
Sydney, 25 th August, 1916.
ATJDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
... • • , f j. „on of the Commonwealth Hank Act, 1911,1 have to
In accordance with the provisions of fete 10 -■ wealth Hank of Australia for the half-year
report that the Aggregate Balance my direction, as a ell as by myself,
ended the 80th .lime, 1916, has been t . tluve p>een veiified with the books and vouchers,
KSiffiS bTS?." V,?A e wU h° bit ate in e„ t s certified by the respective Managers and
Accountants of the 1 juik. . .. j explanations required by ntc. The said llalance Sheet
larpssrt —-*• *«• «* -■* - *
exhibit.* vea'iso 1 to re po rttl “af'.helt.'m of £9,208,900 above set forth was held by the Bank in Gold
Coin tor die Treasurer of the Common wealth IgRAKL Auditor-General for the ( i mmonwealth.
•28 th Auijuvt, 19X6. ‘
“S.S.” : I overheard it in Port Melbourne.
“Now, there’s a ’appy marriage, if you like.
I’ve known ’em for seven year, and they
always get drunk together.’’
The stripped hulls of the two ancient
torpedo-boats, the Lonsdale and the Nepean,
relics of the days when Victoria had a navy
of her own, are lying in the mud at Swan
Island. _ Tenders were some years ago called
for their purchase, but nobody seems to
want them.
A lady with a name like Victoria Plan-
tagenet, charged with having no “lawful
visible,” seemed to have a sporting chance of
acquittal the other day in a Sydney court
until the Law produced the last straw.
“Have you,” it asked, “the picture of a man
tattooed on your leg?” “I have,” modestly
admitted Victoria. That settled it. The
mind of the wavering Beak was cleared of
doubt and he handed out the usual. This
raises some alarming apprehensions of what
may happen to a very great potentate if he
happens to be arrested for, say, watering his
garden. Naturally he would deny the
allegation, and then the Force would ask him
if he had tattooed on himself a . But,
thank Heaven, the press of Australia knows
its duty and would draw a veil over the
dreadful details.
The Gott-fearing Kaiser lately advised his
people to repair to church and pray for vic-
tory. Now we know why he has made a
hobby of destroying cathedrals. He has an
idea of cutting off his adversaries’ communi-
cations with Heaven.
From London:—
Dr. Golding-Bird, Bishop of Kalgoorlie, is still
playing his favorite rOle of episcopal cadger and
libeller of the land that has given him an apron.
The latest issue of the London Church Times con-
tains a long wail from his pen regarding the “very
low standard of morality” in the Westralian town-
ships and the poverty of his diocese. In one mining
township he found “only one family witnessing for
righteousness” and providing “the only bit of religion
in the place.” If he only had more money and men
Westralia would not be going headlong to Hades
in this fashion; but his diocese would immediately
“collapse” if the annual grant from the Society for
the Propagation of the Gospel were withdrawn. So
here is an Australian Anglican bishopric depending for
its existence upon a precarious dole from a British
Society. Who is responsible for the running-up of
these jerry-built bishoprics that cannot maintain
their perpendicular unless they are buttressed by
British charitable donations ? As a matter of self-
respect and with a patriotic regard for the good name
of Australia abroad, the Church of England people of
the Commonwealth ought to put an end to this
scandal.
“Adelaide” : “Sapper,” who saw Kitchener
speeding by in a fast motor (B. 10/8/T6),
had better luck than half of Adelaide’s best-
known people. They secured invitation-cards
for the Saluting Base, and waited in the
front seats under the flag to see the show.
The great man came on to the vast flat sur-
rounded by officers. He gave a fond atten-
tion to the veterans, had a good look at the
cadets, and then—-with other appointments
waiting—rode round the main body of the
local army, instead of asking it to march
past him. Then he was gone, having never
been near the Saluting Base at all. The
crowd saw lots of him, the invited guests
nothing. So Democracy scored again.
An Australian firm has lately made and
sold 100 small farm-engines of a type pre-
viously bought by the same concern in the
U.S.A. Now the second hundred are well on
the way. The magnetos are imported, but
all other parts are made in Australia of
Australian raw material. Under the exist-
ing tariff, before freights went sky-high, it
was possible to import and sell the little
Yankee engine at £35. The Australian en-
gine costs £4O. It will be a howling injus-
tice to a lot of people if the inadequacy of
the post-war tariff permits the squashing of
activities like these. Yet Frank Tudor, to
judge by his growing tendency to jest upon
public occasions, isn’t fretting his soul over
the indifference of his brethren in Parlia-
ment to a matter to which, at last general
election, most of them promised personal
attention.
How a Maoriland woman is a sister to
Billjim :—-
Ettie Rout, who startled officialdom in Maoriland
by organising a volunteer nursing sisterhood and
left the Dominion without the blessing of the Coali-
tion press, Was, when Egypt wrote last, cooking in
the Soldiers’ Club at Tel-el-Kebir, with the thermo-
meter at 100 deg. in the shade. Billjim is.fond of blanc
mange and Miss Rout writes: “On Sunday the boys
excelled themselves by eating nine barrelfuls of
fruit salad (beer barrels), and two of blanc mange;
also a boiler of custard in the afternoon. This
included the evening's provisions, so at 5 o’clock I
made a boiler of sago custard —50 eggs, a bucketful
of sago, half a cup of vanilla, and water to match.
They went through that in five minutes. It was
’like watching a Are in the tussocks.”
A lately deceased down Brighton way was
followed to the grave by two weeping widows.
No, he was neither a Mormon nor a
Mohammedan. He had divorced his first
wife, but she bore him no malice, for when
he dropped off she not only put on mourning
and went to the funeral, but took her No. 2
along as well. So there was a square party.
Up Rochester way, where a “shire queen”
competition is raging, they have a cheap and
easy way of raising vote money. About
30 gunners foregather at an appointed place,
arrange themselves in a semi-circle and then
march over the paddocks shooting every hare
that scuttles before them. The fur is
gathered by a buyer who follows the battue,
giving up to Is. lOd. a pair for the bag,
which goes into cold-storage. And that's
where Toorak gets its “turtle” soup from
when it has had a win at Flemington.
It is doubtful if the owner of a cough ever
felt so embarrassed as one did the other
evening at a lecture given to a select
audience by the wife of a Melbourne
doctor. The cough, though persistent,
was so apologetic. Still, it seemed to
get on the nerves of the lecturer, who, about
half-way through, with an “Excuse me.”
dashed over to the chairwoman’s table. Fork-
ing something from a bag she held it towards
the owner of the cough, who stepped meekly
forward to receive the gift. It was a packet
of cough-drops.


Take an
h
Kodak with you
and make every outing a success.
Wherever you go on your holiday, week-end tour or outing of any kind, be sure you take an Autographic Kodak with
you and snapshot every delightful event. Such pictures have a lasting interest and pleasure for you—especially as
with the new Autographic idea you can date and title every snapshot, making a complete record.
You can cheer up your soldier friend with Kodak pictures.
Kodak Pictures of home life, the children, pets, favorite
nooks or interesting events are wonderfully easy to make, and
will please your soldier friends more than anything else
could.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-, and you
can learn to use any one of them in half an hour.
The Ko. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is one of the very
popular models; compact, convenient, perfectly efficient. Has
capacity for six exposures without reloading; weighs only
23 ounces; fitted with meniscus achromatic lens and Kodak
ball-bearing shutter. For pictures 2| x 3J inches. Price 45/-
The 3A Folding Autographic Kodak for postcard pictures—
-5| x 34 inches. Price £5/10/-
The No. 1 Brownie is splendid for youngsters. Enables
them to take pictures that will be of inestimable value
in time to come. Pictures 2% x 2 % inches. Price 5/-.
Others up to 50/-
Ask for the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers and
mm
SMrnm Wm.
m
V ,
mB/Mm
Ml.lMWfflMi
:
.
m
yMM.M "
: : -V,.:-:.-. ' :■
* s; *Stl
.
'M '':-.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; "The 810ck,”284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-253 Queen Street, Brisbane. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide. 45 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Denham Street, Rockhampton. 316 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
Dixon Street, Wellington, If.Z. 3 Eorne Street, Auckland, N.Z.; and 76
Stuart Street, Dunedin, N.Z.
✓
wy A T A ft
and WORKMANM^
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
%
ĥ
The vSKANDIA in RABAUL
CAPT. J. M. RON DAHL’S Fast Schooner “ BUKA.”
45 Tons D.W.; Speed 10 knots ;
25«=h.p. SKANDIA Engine.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loft us Street,
SYDNEY.
“THE SHAVE FOR ME!”
ħ
h
ĥ
“What’s the use of experimenting' with Novelty Razors? There’s
nothing beats the good old
‘PLUM’ RAZOR.
There’s no other blade so finely tempered, or that keeps its edge so
long. The ‘Plum’ gives the shave for me.’’ Invest in one to-day.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITIiEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
m
mm
€?-
Engineers
In every point which affects the
REAL productive value of the machine
—still more so in combinations —the
Machine Tools that we sell have Dis-
tinct and Positive Advantages.
If you are in the market for General
Engineering or Special Motor
Garage Machine Shop Equipment
it will pay you to investigate the
High-grade Machines we have in
stock.
In any case, if Machine Tools interest
you, ask for 92-page Catalogue M 9.
Post Free.
Sagar Woodworking
Machines
Cost more than the “low-price” machines,
because they’re worth it. They represent a
paradoxical case of saving money by spend-
ing it.
SAGAR Quality is insurance against break-
down and other expensive stoppages common
to “low-price” machinery.
SAGAR WOODWORKING MACHINES
are British Built and embody the Finest
Materials, Best Workmanship, Frames of
exceptional strength, and all the orthodox
and many exclusive features for Rapid
Productions, Convenience and Accuracy.
AS AGENTS we carry a complete range of
these Machines for Timber Mills, Builders,
Joiners, Coachbuilders, Furniture, Manufac-
turers, etc.
Ask for M 8 Catalogue. It’s Free.
ħ
"OSTER” Stocks
and Dies
are the recognised leadevs in the
Pipe-screwing Tool World. With
an “OSTER” Stock and Die
open, you don’t have to wind off
after finishing a thread. The
“OSTER” has adjustable
Guides, which centre the pipe
perfectly; also improved gauge
for cutting duplicate threads, and
the Dies thread several sizes
without change.
Particulars arid Price on
Application.
c
Proprietary Limited
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
ESTABLISHED IS6O.


QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws,
, With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development. Queens-
land offers a held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Branch Office:
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
&6e
“Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are the most extraordinary Watches of the age.
They are f-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balance.
They are speciallv made to stand ROUGH RIDING
and KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted) for two
years.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS U
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH ONLY.
Gent.’s Full-sized, Open-faced Oxidised Steel
Fx & R Lever Watch with 15 Jewels,
33/-
Three Sizes—
-IVz h.p.
2 h.p.
H.p.
r Cas¥ssSl
The EVINRUDE
:: DETACHABLE::
ROWBOAT MOTOR
is the most successful and perfect motor of
this kind on the market. Over 40,000 now
in use. Very simple and easy to operate.
Can be attached to any boat in a few
minutes—adjustable to depth and angle of
stern. Speed up to eight miles an hour.
Equipped with high-tension, built-in-the-fly-
wheel Magneto. "Fitted with Automatic
Reverse and Maxim Silencer. Operated by
Petrol, and lubrication is automatic.
Of invaluable assistance on the farm for pumping water, driving separator etc
To transform motor into a power machine is the work of a few minutes
Propeller is removed and a belt pulley substituted.
Descriptive Booklet sent post free on application to
H - A \£ OD ;° ARD ’ 376 Collins Street, iMelbourne; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
404 Queen Street. Brisbane; Cliff Street, Fremantle; lieminoton
Chambers (opp. G.P.0.), Auckland, N.Z. &ton
LOCAL AGENTS REQUIRED IN ALL TOWNS WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CONCERTS, UNLIMITED
Possess a “Gramophone” and you no longer have to go to concerts
for musical entertainment—the concerts are brought TO YOU in
your home, your camp, or wherever you may desire.
For both outdoor and indoor concerts we recommend the
Registered Trade Mark.
((
GRAMOPHONE
Mahogany Tasman Model.
It is hornless, and therefore easily portable; but it is also a powerful
instrument that reproduces vocal and instrumental music perfectly. It is
made of satin-finished Mahogany
with Nickel-plated Fittings. It
has all the latest “Gramophone”
improvements.
Price £l7/17/-
Hear the “Tasman” —it will
appeal to you at once.
Instrument catalogue, record lists
and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
mm
:^h§
✓
11 GRAMOPHONE ”
Registered Trade Mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY
0^
DO
DEVIL’S PUZZLE MATCHBOX.
The Matchbox, which is different from all
other puzzle-boxes. You’ll never open it until
you read the directions. Made of Nickel-plate,
beautifully finished. Without doubt the most
ingenious Puzzle Matchbox that has ever been
made. Price, Post Free, with Instruc-
tions, 2/-
Jokes, Puzzles, Tricks,
Novelties.
Write for our New Novelty
Catalog—lT’S FREE.
06
SHOCKING
CIGARETTE
CASE.
A splendid have.
No sooner do you
open the case than
you drop it as
quickly.
Post Free, 9d.
H
. L-. Hutchinson Ltd.,
708-710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
HA
•ncubatp
©
BROODY HENS for 12/6.
The “HATCHO” 15-egg Incubator
is a perfect substitute for a Broody
Hen, will hatch every fertile egg,
simple to use, cannot get out of order.
Over 4000 sold last season.
Price 12/6 complete, carriage paid.
Egg Testers 1/2 each. Agents wanted.
R. CASTON & CO., Dept. H.,
40 Hunter Street, Sydney.
TheCHIASTOLITE
or Luck
Stone
The Wonderful Old-World War Charm.
WORN AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST ALL HARM.
Found in Australia.
Mounted as Pendants in 9ct. Gold, from 10/6 each.
Mounted as Rings in 9ct. Gold, from 20/- each.
The Black Opal Store, 89 Market St., Sydney.
E. F. MURPHY, Gem Merchant, Proprietor.
the Onoto needs no filler!
&
r.
%
SC
Va
P-v
Cd>
iv
Why didn't you ask her
to send you an Onoto ?
X£l Pen
from 14/6 each
A filler is bound to get broken
at the Front. The Onoto needs
no filler; its fills itself from any
supply, and cleans the nib while
filling.
The Onoto never leaks in any position.
You send it out to your friend at the
Front full of ink ready for immediate use.
Manufacturers— Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltd.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C. Australasian Managing
Agents—Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
V
1
1
Z
i 9
ĥ
1
Makes the whole bath room shine
The nickel faucets, the enamel
basin, the bath tub, the tile, the
mirror and the white paint in
the bath room —Bon Ami cleans
them all exquisitely.
The fact that you can use it
freely on the finest mirror shows
that it won’t scratch the polished
i» J § all the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Cleaning
nickel or the enamel or the paint
as coarse scouring soaps do. It
leaves no oily film as metal
polish does and contains no acid
to eat the metal.
Bon Ami cleans and polishes
by the rubbing .of its soft,
crumbly white mineral.
You have no idea how shimmer-
ingly white your bath tub can
be till you try Bon Ami on it.
At your grocers.
“There is nothing else like it.”


TO FALL OUT
Head Mass of Irritation. Kept Awake
at Night. Cuticura Soap and
Ointment Healed.
Box 4 G. P. 0., Brisbane, Queensland. —
"About two years ago I began to get an
awful pain and itchy feeling in my head and
my hair began to fall out. My head be-
came one mass of irritation and I was kept
awake at night with the terrible pain. I
had that many sleepless nights that I was
just on the eve of a breakdown when the
wonderful Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment came to the rescue. I was fright-
ened to comb or brush my hair it was falling
out that fast.
“I decided to give Cuticura a trial and
wrote for Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
After a week's treatment I was cured. lam
proud of my hair it is that soft and glossy.”
(Signed) Mrs. M. Kelly, May 1, 1914.
Sample Each Free by Post
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
Teach Cadets
to shoot
h
The Ross “ Cadet’ ’ Rifle is a
.22 calibre rifle, made expressly
for Cadet Organizations to the
ROSS "CADET,” .22 CALIBRE
specifications of the
Canadian Government.
It is strong and
serviceable, shoots .22
calibre short, long, or
long rifle cartridges—
(the most inexpensive
made), and has self-
ejecting, straight-pull
action.
It is an excellent and
6afe arm to use to drill
youths and teach them
how to shoot, and is
powerful enough to use
for any except larger
game.
The price is £2-10,
in Canada; discounts
are quoted on orders
for quantities.
Full particulars on application.
715
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada
Information and Prices can be obtained from—
Mr. HUGH SCOTT-YOUNG,
P.O. Box 1031, Melbourne, Australia.
HORROCKSES
m /
|;W
LONG CLOTHS ikSHEETINGSI
Have Youthful Hair
Grey Hair Will No Longer Rob You of
Your Youthful Looks If You Try This
Simple Home Recipe.
£ ai . r has begun to turn grey, or
rf® a faded > lustreless appearance, you can
eauily darken it and bring back its beauty
t>y using this home recipe, which is neither
expensive nor difficult to prepare. In half a
pint of water mix these ingredients, to be
had at any chemist’s.
Bay Rum -t -
Orlex Compound V. 7.'. 7 1 smali box!
niw S r?f ation is a,so fine for the scalp,
f. l removes dandruff and stops
hair Ju\ r ’ A Pt> ] y once il day until the
will n S da « e . ned ’ then once every two weeks
he sufficient. Be sure the chemist gives
‘r,j V n Vi!n X Com P°uud, for no substitute will
* lve the same good results.—Advt. [4
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
• lC o:^ iar ? es^u an «. successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-
paying office in the World. HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Bon. Jas. Burns, M.L.C.; Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C.;
Samuel Hordern, Esq.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Accumulated Funds, £35,000,000. Annual Income, £4,770,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1915 .. £848,528. Total Bonuses distributed .. £2O 670,000.
, The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards. Write for prospectus
and full information without delay. H *
aur
aure)
j ... 11 Jl. . J JJ.
The Story of the Lamp
>3
ifiSu
:igr
In Ancient Babylon, 3000 B.C.
The men of the “stone age” period used
lamps fashioned in stone. The earliest
known lamps were those discovered by
scientists amongst the excavations in Baby-
lonia and Assyria, on the Mesopotamian
plains. The lamps unearthed were of un-
glazed terra-cotta and excellent workman-
ship, taking various forms such as birds,
hands, and feet. It is not to be expected
that the Babylonians could produce a
burning oil so perfect as
Laurel Kerosene
The soft white light
Laurel gives a soft but brilliant light,
perfectly steady, without smoke or smell,
and is very restful to the eyes. Laurel is
our new trade mark name for the highest
quality American Kerosene ever sold in
Australasia and replaces our old brand,
White Rose.
Insist on Laurel
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand
La.)
m
Dra. Wimpole and Harley-Streete,
Compare their notes whene’er they meet,
And It pleases us to hear them say,
They ’re prescribing' Jelloids ’ every day.
After taking Iron ‘Jelloids ’ the blood becomes enriched and
strengthened, the appetite is restored, vitality is renewed. Anaemia
quickly disappears, giving place to vigorous and buoyant spirits.
Iron JELLOIDS’ are commended by the Medical Profession.
ft
The “ Nursing Record and Hospital World " : —“ The prices of them
“are very moderate, and the invention deserves the approval of the
‘“Medical Profession, which it is obtaining in such a marked measure.”
A fortnight's trial ( Price 1/6 ) will convince you.
For Women, No. 2. Special Tonic for Men, No. 2A. (containing Quinine).
For Children, No. 1. Sold in England at l/ll and 2/9. per box.
Obtainable at all Chemists throughout Australia.
Wholesale: Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., cr. Clarence rf Market Sts., Sydney.
Q
a
a
C
Makes the hair bright and clean, without
wetting, trouble or danger. The only dry
shampoo that readily brushes out.
British Made.
3d. packet everywhere.
Icilma is pronounced, Eye Silma.
Hair Powder
J. C. GAM3LES & CO., Agents, 11 Commerce House, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
Frederick Charles East, who went to press
the other day in Christchurch (M.L.), at the
age of 71, had been writing his name on the
pay-sheet of the Lyttelton Times for 50
years. Before the end he had become chief
reader and ready for a rest. East rode the
winner of the second Derby run in Canter-
bury (Azucena, in ’63), was in the first
volunteer company thereabouts, was the local
pioneer in the use of photography for the
press, and had about the finest amateur’s
collection of ferns and orchids in the neigh-
borhood.
* * # *
T. J. (“Hoppy”) Kolian, who got in the
limelight lately in Sydney as plaintiff in a
case in which he sued other members of
the Board of the Typographical Association
for assault and for excluding him from
meetings, went into the Ass. when it took
over the Publishing Employees’ Union. He
looks after the publishing affairs of John
Haynes’s Newsletter. Kohan has oeen asso-
ciated with the Labor movement for years,
and earned a solid reputation for loquacity
at congresses and conferences. The last
time he ran as a Labor candidate was at
Petersham, where he gave J. J. Cohen a
fair run in an electorate that seemed hope-
less from a Labor standpoint.
* * # *
War is indeed Hell! London Sporting
Times, known for 40 years as the Pink
’Un, on account of the color of its paper—
it has long since registered the name as
part of its title —now has to come out on
virgin white stock, like its contemporaries.
There was, by the way, a dreadful two
months during which it was feared that
even The Bulletin’s cover would have to
cease to wear its bright blush. But an
ei ergetic agent in England grabbed paper
dyes promptly, then set to work to exchange
the dyes he didn’t want for the cerise that
The Bulletin did want; and so the im-
possible was made possible.
* * * *
The Christchurch Press (M.L.) is out
to give the birth-rate all the encouragement
it can. It has been running its birth ads.
under the heading ‘‘Roll of Honor.” But
being a journal which keeps an eye on the
morals of the local inhabitant, it has
thoughtfully added a column for Marriages.
* * * #
The war lias made some changes in the
Pinkstone family, ancient plodders on the
dusty Inky Way of rural N. S. Wales. Old-
man Pinkstone, who started the Cootamun-
dra Herald 40 years ago, recently retired;
and his eldest son, W.H., has put his own
paper, the Hawkesbury Herald, into the
hands of a manager while he takes charge at
Coota. in the interests mainly of four
brothers who have gone to the war.
* * * «
“F.N.T.”: “Spell-oli” (B. 17/8/’l6)
reckons the Australasian .Journalist a
“deplorable publication.” Nowadays the
Journalist is strictly a trade-journal of
20 pages. There are about 800 Australian
members of the A.J.A., and the price of the
journal is 3d. This means £lO, plus a trifle
of advt. money, to meet the cost of producing
the paper. Yet it pays its way. As regards
quality, the current issue contains about
7 per cent, of reprint. The balance is contrib-
uted matter —editorials, letters, reports, an-
nouncements, personal notes and a few
general pars, and technical witticisms. As
perhaps. 50 different pressmen are repre-
sented in those contributions, while the
publication is edited by a man who had a
good job on a Melbourne daily until he
became gen. sec. of the A.J.A., it looks as
though “Spell-oh” doesn’t know a good trade-
journal when he sees one.
* * * •
E. Dwyer Gray has retired from the job
of editing the Hobart Daily Post after a
few strenuous and stormy years, during the
hitter part of which the ship has had some
difficulty m keeping afloat. Sub-editor
McArthur is now telling the Kaiser what
the Post thinks of him.
SPRING AND THE REPORTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Intense cold followed on the spring-like weather
of yesterday. —Newspaper par.
Spring came creeping on a day at end of winter,
Peeped into the gardens and the orchards, ev’rywhere
Touched the naked branches —she’s a wondrous leaf-
bud tinter —•
With specks of living emerald and warmed the chilly
air.
Spring played hiding. Past the hedge-rows few
could see her,
Laughing through her tresses at the cold folk passing
by;
Now and then a poet stared, musing: “Can it be
her—
Little Spring, at this old time, and giving the Glad
Eye?”
Came one mortal (he was braver than his fellows),
Spied the leaflet-jewels, and so tracked her where she
lay
Soft in naked loveliness—a bed of greens and yellows
Underneath her whiteness—while her great eyes
laughed in play.
Spring, sweet-smiling, is a joy to make veins quicken.
’Spite his throbbing senses, our reporter—yea, in
truth !
Took out book and pencil ere his sullen thought
could sicken
Of its mundane purpose, and addressed Eternal Youth.
“My impressions?” quoth the laughing, luscious
maiden;
“Tell, was ever question a reporter would not ask?
Place too softly-sacred for his tread ?” “Ah, Blossom-
laden,
Help thou the unhappy; it is all his daily task.”
Spring sate, toying with her tresses’ raying goldness,
Rippling: “I’m the Bad Girl of the Seasons,” through
rich lips;
“Laughter-loving, living am I, tempting righteous
coldness—
And I've scribbled my ‘impressions’ on the branches’
budding tips.”
Spring, so saying, spread her hidden wings for flying,
Flashed her fairy limbs in air, and fluttered far
away.
Mortals guessed her going, for as home the youth
went, sighing,
He pulled his collar closely up—and cold winds blew
next day.
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.


DEPENDABLE GUNS
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
Weil Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
[hUI
mm
m
liiii
■ii
IhKHS
w®
111
I m
\w&.h
GOLDEN KEY CIGARS DE LUXE,
British Made. Box of 5, 2/6 post free
824. Boswell’s High-grade D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, “The Reliable,”
12-gauge, top lever, Anson and Deeley action, barrels both choke, side clips, Greener X
Bolt, chambered for 2J cartridges, intro proved, pistol grip,
engraved; weight about Tib. soz. .....
elaborately
. Delivered,
£,17/10/-
WE STOCK EVERYTHING FOR EVERY SPORT. “Goods Right—Prices Right.”
©
9
Q
828. The “Continental” Combined Double-Barrel Shot Gun
and Rifle, 30in. Siemen’s Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun
barrel full choke, 12-gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight
about 711 b Delivered,
£7/7/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
ĥ
£B/7/6
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-incli steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut
stock, weight about 71b Delivered, _
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels Delivered, £B/12/6
Stinol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., Post Free.
■ :
Kill
mm
826. C. H. Crawford’s D. 8.8.8. Gun, 12- or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge, about
711 b.; of 16-gauge, about 6*lb Delivered.
Same as above, 12-gauge, 32in. barrels, or 20-gauge 30in. barrels, 7/6 extra.
Send for our new edition Sports and Firearms Catalogue. Posted free to any address.
£5/5
MICK SIMMONS li»
flaw
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS OUTFITTERS AND TOBACCONISTS.
City Sports Depot :_ll9 KING STREET; also at NEWCASTLE & BRISBANE.
ħ
Selfregulating! ®
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FoudtgnPen
Ab solutely notkino
to do bat write, ike ,\
patent and. inimitable
\ SpOOtl Feed regulates
tke inkflow to tke
»>»»»»»
Three types—Regular, Safety,
and Lever Pocket Self-Filling.
Of Stationers 6" Jewellers every where
L. G. SLOAN,
Corner
LONDON.
ENGLAND.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105 Clarence St., Sydney.
h
If any illustration appearing in 'i'iie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
■mcuM
SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Location : Conveniently situated in
Castlereagh Street—a few doors from
King Street and nearly opposite
Theatre Royal, with separate entrance
in Elizabeth Street !
mtfllUUim \
'///M 1
The Most Modern and
Palatial Hotel in Australia!
THE Hotel Carlton, completed at a cost exceeding £lOO,OOO,
and furnished sumptuously throughout by David Jones, Ltd.,
has, since its opening on March 30, 1916, been thronged
with crowds of delighted visitors -!
While its exquisite appointments—its perfect cuisine and courteous
service more than commend themselves to travellers used to every
comfort —the Hotel Carlton can hardly be described as being
merely the leading hotel.
It is more than that !
It is from every point of view the most desirable place in Sydney
to stay.
Every detail in the perfect attention to visitors’ wishes has been
thoroughly studied, and reflects the careful thoughtfulness of the
management, who have had a wide experience in catering for the
best class of patronage : !
One of the attractive features of the Hotel Carlton is that every
bedroom is naturally ventilated, unusually spacious, has hot and
cold water installed, and is artistically furnished.
It is absolutely fireproof, having marble staircases and concrete
floors throughout.
The general appointments include amongst others: Magnificent
Dining Hall (with separate accommodation for children), elegant
and comfortable lounges, reception, smoking, writing and reading
rooms, also private rooms for weddings, dinner-parties, afternoon-
teas, etc.
ALL LETTERS, WIRES, etc., PROMPTLY ANSWERED.
TERMS—I4/= PER DAY EACH PERSON.
CHAS. W. CUPIT,
Manager.
nu
M
DO
SYDNEY
N.S.W.


m
#
■A
% r
i &
A Gallant Anzac,
L.-Cpl. H. N. Brookes,
wounded at the Front,
receives a Xmas Billy
containing a tin of
REXONA
This Australian hero writes
All Australians prove themselves when put to the test. “So does
Rexona.”
I left Australia 11th May, 1915, and went to Gallipoli. After
months in the trenches at Quinn’s Post I was blown up by a mine exploding.
I also received nineteen (19) shrapnel wounds in my legs. I, like all our
Boys, received a Christmas Billy, and enclosed inside was a tin of Rexona.
\\ hile in the No. 3 A.G.H. at Heliopolis, Egypt, I used it frequently on my
wounds. While other remedies failed, Rexona completely cured them.
I am quite well again and able to take up my duties in life as before,
many thanks to the unsurpassable, healing and soothing powers of Rexona.
I assure one and all, any soldiers at the Front will be pleased with a tin of
Rexona. If he uses it at once he
will always use it.
I can recommend with confi-
dence Rexona, as I have given it
the fullest of tests, and, further-
more, I have sent several tins to
friends now serving in the A.I.E.
Forces.
Yours truly,
Ij.-Cpl. H. N. BROOKES,
17th Batt., sth Brigade,
A.I.E.F.
This is a photo, showing the 19
shrapnel wounds received by L.-Cpl.
11. N. Brookes, and which were com-
pletely cured by Rexona, the Rapid
Healer. He says all soldiers want
Rexona—why don’.t you send a tin
to the Front?
Price 1/6; large size, 3/-
h
The Sydney 8 Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
Mutual Life Building 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
For all classes of Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Rifting Ropes and other parts
—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and High Pressure Stocks generally.
Best Workmanship and Material. Quotations supplied.
a
m
The
Hot
Sun
&
Dust
Will not hurt your skin or complexion
if you use freely several times a day
Rowland's
Kalydor
which cools and refreshes the FACE, HANDS
and ARMS, PREVENTS and removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SUNBURN, REDNESS
and ROUGHNESS, &c., Soothes and heals
all Irritation, Stings of Insects, &c. Produces
a beautifully Clear and Healthy Complexion,
and a SKIN as SOFT as VELVET. Bottles
2/3, 4/6, and 8/6. Of Stores, Chemists, and
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garden, London.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
~ FOR 1
COUGHS .
Abridges
UjungTonicj
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
WILLIAM MITCHELL(PENS) LTP
is
i
X
g
THE. “TRENCH” PEN
WITH OBLIQUE TRENCH POINT.
SMOOTH
POINT.
■ ivfi
6 d
B
G
X
t"
s
INCORRODIBLE
METAL.
Gives Character to Writing,
FINE, MEDIUM and BROAD DEGREES.
PENS TO SUIT ALL WRITERS
Sample Boxes of 24 Assorted Patterns from all Stationers,
Magic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A HUSH came down, as of brooding
wings,
When the ripple of music stole
To the darkened hall, where the lights
burned low,
For the grey-haired wizard who held the
bow
Flayed not alone on the quivering strings;
He played on the human soul.
It sang as the ripple of waters sing
In the glimmer of dawn ashine;
A glad spring dawming of skies serene,
\vith woods, dew-spangled, of gold and
green,
W hen life itself was a glorious thing,
But love was a gift divine.
Of the great green forests at dawn it told,
And the song of the radiant rills;
Of the sunlight golden on slopes of green,
And the long cool shadows that fell between
lill the heart went wild for the blue and
gold,
And the wonder of the hills.
II sang of the glory of Summer ways
For the feet that could never tire,
Of the things that the spirit may not for-
get,
Till the women lifted their eyes, tear-wet,
And wandered again for a little space
In the garden of Heart’s Desire.
They set their feet by its shining streams
And the music called from sleep
One golden hour from the long ago,
The hour most perfect that earth can know,
The Dream, divinest of all earth’s dreams,
That the longing soul can keep.
The veil dropped down, and the past stood
clear
From the shadow of all the years;
But the memory clung, with a passionate
pain,
To the old dream, never to live again:
And the music quivered and faltered here,
Bike a human voice with tears.
But to some there came from the long-dead
past
Orim spirits, with brows afrown,
Who said, “We are yours, though you
buried us deep;
But the Wizard called, and we woke from
sleep,
And the royal roses and lilies massed
Were powerless to hold us down.”
Living the life that their own hands made,
They had honor and wealth, and yet
Love came but once—oh, her face was fair,
But the long grass tangles above her hair!
Yet never on earth will her memory fade
Or the spirit quite forget.
Then the music changed till it soared and
sang
As the voice of a soul made free,
When the heart’s desire is attained at last.
And storm and passion and strife are past;
And the royal rapture rose and rang
In a marvel of melody.
Then the bow sank down like a magic wand
And the music died away,
And the lights flared up in the silent hall,
And the listeners woke from the magic
thrall
As a man comes back from a golden land
To a cheerless world and grey.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Warnings and Prohibitions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE ferry steamer was slipping merrily
down Sydney Harbor to thin music
and the busy beat of the engines. On
the glassed-in upper deck two working
mothers flanked by picnic baskets sat gos-
siping about flannel, bills, husbands’ beer,
operations, hats, sales, death, childbirth and
other matters too numerous to mention.
Three of their children were romping hap-
pily ; the fourth sat apart moving nothing
but his eyes, and glumly waiting for some-
thing or other, or nothing at all.
“W’y don’t yer run about an’ play,
hrankie?” asked the kind lady who didn’t
own him.
Frankie’s mother asked the same question
with pepper added. “ ’Ere! W’y don’t yer
run about like the others?”
Frankie rolled sulky eyes at both of them
and sat on his hands. “Th’ captain mightn’t
like it!”
mot^ler clicked her tongue impatiently.
. That’s ’im all over! Real fool of a kid, ’e
J.S.”
Her lady friend leant forward and gave
the law-abiding child the “look pleasant”
smile. Oh, no he wouldn’t, dear! You run
about an’ play with the others —go on,
there’s a dear!”
I rankie shook his head stubbornly.
Oh, leave ’im alone!” whispered his
mother. ’E’s jus’ like ’is farther—got no
spirit! Look at ’im now!” The friend
turned quickly and detected Frankie in the
act of deciphering a notice: “No Smoking
This End of Steamer.”
“Yes,” snorted his parent, “an’ w’en ’e’s
learnt that orf by ’eart Vll sneak over an’
„ rn j ‘“t ° ne about no pedlars bein’
allowed to offer their wares, an’ the other
one about not travellin’ on other subscribers’
tickets-—penalty five pound. Fair makes
me sick, ’e does!”
Seeing that the subject of Frankie only
annoyed Frankie’s mother, Frankie’s mother’s
harked back to hats and operations.
Hraln* th6 j *u lk , flowed again in pleasant
drains, and the band and the children played
happily while the glum Frankie studied the
by-laws.
ni3£ en , tlie steamer was drawing in to the
S^,i Wharf 1 Fi ; ankie ’ s “other sounded the
Fr-fnK y ’ a i° d t , he children gathered round,
wrmw? soiemniy climbed on a seat and
12 s apP/oaching cliffs with an eager
_J • Mum. he yelped suddenly. “Mum!
I see some notices!”
nvr 1 ’ skvd y e r mouth!”
be Prosecuted ' ! ”
Th“f™L^- toe Flowws ia Foi-bMden in
“I’ll give you a smack over the ear if you
don’t be’ave yourself!’’
Frankie knew from long experience just
when to stop. He stopped now—but only
under protest. His eyes were wide with
apprehension, for he saw he was being led
into a beautiful ambush studded with white
notice-boards covered all over with written
and signed threats against his life and
liberty. As the little party hurried across
the plank and gained the wharf he sighted
another one and intoned very gravely: “.Rub-
bish Must Not Be Deposited on This Beach.
By Order.”
His mother deftly caught him by the shoul-
der and swung him round so that his young
face was within two inches of her armor-
piercing nose. It was a trick of hers to
make herself more terrible to her own chil-
dren by forcing them to regard her out of
focus. “Now, look ’ere! I’ve ’ad enough o’
you ! If you read out another of them things
I’ll give you an ’idin’! Now re-member
that!” And she released him with a push.
“That’s the way ’e always goes on,” she
sighed to her friend as the party resumed
the advance.
It wasn’t long before they had taken a
pretty summer-house by assault and consoli-
dated their position with all the food and
eating gear they had brought with them.
After dinner Frankie was ordered, on pain of
death, to “go an’ play with the others —don’t
keep pokin’ round ’ere.” He wandered off
like a dog that has been ordered out of the
house into the rain.
Frankie put up a poor pretence of being
interested in “tiggy” while nosing round for
further painted edicts, proclamations, by-
laws and orders-in-council. By strict atten-
tion to business he discovered that he mustn’t
(1) light fires elsewhere than in the fire-
places provided by the trustees, (2) scatter
broken glass, (3) deface the buildings or
fences, (4) bring in dogs, (5) swim horses,
(6) remove sand, (7) pick flowers or shrubs,
(8) fish off the wharf, (9) climb trees. He
also found that any complaints he had to
make must be put in writing and lodged at
the trustees’ office, and that strawberries
and cream could be obtained at the tea kiosk,
price 6d. That gave him an idea, and he
made his way back to where his mother sat
twiddling a few poor wildflowers and telling
her friend about her life’s romance.
“Mum, I want some strawberries an’
cream, Mum!”
She pounced on him with startling
rapidity. “You’re a greedv little beast, an’
if you don’t clear out”
“Pickin’ flowers is prohibited !” he chanted,
solemn eyes fixed on her bouquet—the in-
spiration of the old love story.
She shook a lean fist at him. “I’ll pro-
hibit yer, yer little wretch! You min’ yer
own bizness, an’ don’t be a tell-tale!” A
ticket fell out of her glove and his sharp eye
noted its fall.
“Mum, can I have the ticket? I won’t
lose it, Mum!”
“Oh, all right—all right!”
He snatched up the scrap of colored card-
board and walked away, while his harassed
mother sat down and picked up the broken
threads of conversation.
There was peace for quite half an hour.
Then piercing yells of anguish issuing from
the scrub hoisted both mothers to their feet.
“Somethink’s ’appened !”
“ ’E’s ’urt ’imself! It’s Frankie’s voice!”
Followed a skirted rush like a Highland
charge.
Frankie came staggering from his ambush
with all his limbs on and no blood showing.
But his cheeks were dripping with tears, and
his howls scared the seagulls from the beach.
“I want to go home in th’ tram!” he blub-
bered.
His frightened mother tried to cuddle and
comfort him; but in the extremity of his
terror he kicked her shins.
“What’s the matter, Frankie? Tell mother,
there’s a good boy !”
“Want—go—home in th’ tram!”
“Oh, nonsense; we’re all going ’ome in th’
nice boat afterwards!”
“I’m frightened. DON’T go home in th’
boat!”
“Don’t be silly now ! What’s wrong with
th’ nice boat?”
“I’m frightened,” he bellowed and started
an agonised war-dance.
“But why are yer frightened of it? Didn’t
yer come down on it?”
It’s on th’ ticket!” sobbed Frankie, and
squealed and kicked again. “Want to go
home in the tram!” His mother snatched
the grimed ticket from his paw and read
slowly-
This ticket is the property of the Poodle Bay and
h. S. F. Co., Ltd., and if not delivered up on date of
issue it may be sued for or seized and destroyed by
the Company if and when subsequently presented.
Iry Chordle’s Sixpenny Champagne—You Will Never
Regret It.
Frankie threw himself face down in the
sand. “I don’t want to be seized an’
destroyed!” he yelled. “Take me home in
th’ tram!”
Seized an’ destroyed,’ ” murmured
I rankles mother, and referred again to the
ticket. It puzzled her for a moment; but
when she had repeated the sinister phrase
two or three times she saw the origin of
Frankie’s terror and burst out in a flame of
moral indignation. “Nice sort o’ thing for a
nervis child ter read. Can’t a person have a
tuppenny boat-ride without bein’ threatened
with seizin’ an’ destroyin’! Bless me soul,
ye d think them mis’rable little dirty steam-
ers was battleships the way they treat
customers—frightenin’ th’ life outer their
children an’ all!” She rammed the ticket
into her bag and said, with great determina-
tion : ‘l’ll ’ave a word with th’ capt’in about
this when we’re goin’ back!”
And she did. When the enormous job of
getting Frankie aboard had been completed
and the little ferry was smoking back to
Sydney, the captain in his steering-cabin was
amazed to see a woman’s face appear at the
window. The brisk evening wind was snatch
ing the words from her lips, and he had to
incline his ear and make signs for her to
repeat what she had said.
7 an what s all this about ‘seizin’ an’
destroyin’’—all this rubbish?”
“Don’t—understand—yer—mum '
What’s—the —matter?”
seizin’ an’ destroyin’.... frightenin’
nervis children seizin’ an’”- a lean
gloved hand appeared with a bit of cardboard
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY COMPLAINT MAKES HOME A HOSPITAL
A "loom is cast over .the home when one of the family is taken with kidney complaint. His sallow complexion, his heavy
eyes, his hopeless expression, all awaken sympathy and tell of the suffering he is enduring. He leaves his meals half-finished,
and when he rises from a chair he turns dizzy with the agonising pain, and his hand flies to his back.
Many men and women living in our own neighborhood have been cured to STAY cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the
special kidney and bladder medicine. The genuine Doan’s Pills gently restore health to the delicate kidney organism, helping
the kidneys to purify the blood and drive out the liquid waste that is the
cause of backaches, sleeplessness, rheumatism, urinary disorders, gravel,
stone in the bladder, and the fatal Bright’s disease.
People who suffered from kidney disorders tell here how Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured them years ago, and to-day they are still enjoying splendid
health. Their lasting cures will encourage you.
Doan’s Pills Give Lasting Benefit.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
£very Picture
Te//s A Story
m.
/v
/rrt
Price 2/9 per bottle, or post free from Foster, McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
7 YEARS CURED
Mr. W. H. Jeffries, King Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says: “About five years ago my kidneys
commenced to bother me, no doubt brought on fiom
hard work, such as lifting and bending over at my
work. My back was lame and aching, and this
handicapped me a lot, for it was a difficult matter
to stoop and caused increased pain. I tried a good
many remedies, but they did me no good. A friend
advised me to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
so I sent for some. I used them as directed, and
when I had taken about half a bottle I knew they
were benefiting me. Thus encouraged, I con-
tinued with the treatment until I was quite cured,
and I have not felt the slightest sign of backache
since. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have made
a different man of me, and I recommend them to
all who suffer with backache.”
Seven years later Mr. Jeffries says: Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me of backache seven
years ago, and I am still free of this trying ailment.
I need say no more, my lasting cure speaks for
itself.”
4 YEARS CURED
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 79 Garden Street, Alexandria,
Sydney, says: “For a long time I suffered from
kidney trouble, the worst symptoms being severe
pains in my back, bad headaches, dizzy attacks,
disordered secretions, and a dull, tired feeling that
I could not shake off. The pain in my back was
often almost unbearable, and every movement
seemed to increase my suffering. As time went on
I got worse instead of better, nothing I took doing
me the least good. I was really far from well, and
badly in need of a medicine that would cure me.
At last I heard of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
so I got a bottle to try them. They proved to be
the very thing I wanted, for after taking three
bottles of these pills I was quite cured, and I have
had no return of kidney trouble since.”
Four years later Mrs. Cox says: “My cure has
proved a permanent one, for I have not had a sign
of kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me four years ago.”
ĥ
Backache
Kidney
a
nipped between finger and thumb. He was
about to take it when the wind cleverly
tossed it overboard. “Seizin’ an’ destroyin’
....on th’ ticket, yer know....an’ I ain’t
goin’ ter pay again, either!”
The captain shook his head wearily. “See
th’ deck’and!” he shouted. “Against th’
regerlations ter talk while I’m steerin’ ! See
th’ deck’and—it’ll be all right, m.ssus !”
Frankie’s mother’s face disappeared. The
captain closed the window. “Beggared if I
know what’s she’s talkin’ about!” he said to
the sky and the sea.
Back in the shelter of the upper deck
Frankie’s mother, very red in the face after
all her screaming, told her tale of injury.
“An’ ’e tole me ter see th’ deck’and,” she con-
eluded. “Nice, easy way o’ gettin’ out of
it! Yer don’t get no satisfaction from deck-
ands, th cheeky brutes !
KODAK.
A Visit from the Parson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SPRINGTIME at Mugga Flat!
Whilst it is yet night the house-
hold is aroused by the ringing of the
alarm-clock, planted under the kerosene-tin
at the head of dad’s bed. Roany kicked dad
on the ear once, and he doesn’t hear too well
now. Mum is already astir, and presently I
hoar the crackle of the kitchen fire.
Dad comes thumping down the passage on
his way to get the cows.
“Are you awake, Sissy?” he yells, ham-
mering at my door. Dad is a bit of a
humorist at times.
It is beastly cold, but I tumble out of bed
and finish my toilet by the fire, where little
Bill, dazed-looking and only partially
dressed, is crouched against the hob. The
warmth of the room thaws the frost on the
roofing. Drops of discolored water splash
upon the butter and scones laid out on the
table. Dad intended lining the kitchen this
year, but he postponed doing it till
Jim and Bob come home again. Dad also
wanted Jim and Bob to put up the new pig-
sties and get the ferns cut before going into
camp; but Bob reckoned they had better get
away before the spring campaign. He
probably meant the spring campaign at
Mugga Flat.
Macguire, sitting on an empty kerosene
case, had played for Jim and Bob’s farewell
social—until someone had whispered in his
ear that there was champagne for supper.
Then Macguire had fallen over Cyril Marks
and Hannah Bly, who were seated in the
dark part of the hall, in his haste to ascer-
tain the truth of the whispered rumor.
Afterwards the ladies of Mugga Flat had
chased Jim and Bob into a corner, and kissed
them on the lips for luck; and Jim (made
bold by the champagne) had embraced Bob
in mistake for Sally Sparks. Jim wasn’t
used to the taste of champagne.
The day Jim and Bob went away mum
sat in the kitchen with her face in her
apron, and dad stood over by the boundary
fence and watched them till they passed the
lean, white saplings that shut off the road.
By the time we have made a hasty break-
fast and mum has cut little Bill’s lunch,
the cows come lowing do'wn the race —big-
uddered cows with their teats caked in the
mud of glorious spring. In caravan-like
style we straggle down to the shed, and
begin dragging the warfen, squelching milk
into the buckets. Little Bill keeps one eye
on dad and the other on the sun. When he
suspects it is nearing sdbool-time he crawls
through the gap at the head of the bail.
Nancy pulls back, and jfumps'on dad's toe.
Dad, mistaking the caose, asks (mildly)
who let the hens out before the milkin’s
done.
The fog has lifted from the gully when
we hang up the legropes and put the last
cow out through the slushy race.
Mum calls out to dad to keep some milk
back from the separatin’ for the use of the
house; but I don’t think dad hears —ms
sound ear is .turned towards the machine.
Dad issues from the separator room with
an old flour-sack tied like an apron about
his loins, and staggers down to the pigsties
with a tin of feed. Sally sees dad coming,
and lies ambushed behind the trough. When
dad passes she rushes out and knocks him
down. The hot potatoes form a crust
over the top of dad. and Sally and her
progeny imagine him to be a new kind of
saveloy.
Finagan arrives when I am washing the
separator. Finagan and I are going to have
a separator and some cows of our own after
the war. Finagan is a reject, and isn’t at
all concerned about it. He seems, indeed,
to glory in his infirmity.
As usual he insists on helping me, to wash
the buckets; but he will keep gazing up at
me the while, and slops the water all over
the floor.
I remonstrate and he retaliates by
attempting to kiss me —and I slap him over
the mouth with the rag dad has used for
oiling the separator. /
Dad comes up from scraping t’he yard to
know if Finagan has heard anything fresh
of the war. Finagan is throwing pebbles in
the fowls’ tin, and doesn’t hear d.ad; so dad
prods him in the back with the shovel to
attract his attention. Finagan tells dad
that he believes our troops have forced the
Dardanelles. Dad is exultant. He leans
back on his shovel and says that where
there’s work to be done Jim and Bob can
be trusted to do it.
Dad had another yarn when Jim and Bob
were on the farm.
Finagan declines to stay to dinner. He
inquires if dad has seen a red cow with a
crumpled horn about the place. Dad replies
with a grin that he hasn’t, but he’s noticed
a lanky bloke with a dirty mug knocking
around. Finagan goes red and draws his
sleeve across his mouth.
At dinner dad is inclined to be morose.
Mum has made a batch of scones rand has
run out of milk for the tea. She asks dad
what he did with the day’s milt.. Dad
expects Sissy gave it all to the poddies, and
if mum wants more she had better run down
a cow.
Mum ladles out stew in silence.
Dad makes plans for the afternoon. Sissy
could give him a hand at the pigsties. Sally
tore the fence down this morning. (Dad
was after her with the shovel and the head
of a pick-axe.) , , .
Mum wants to know if dad has had the
packing-needle—the sick cow needs rugging,
and last summer Jim and Bob thrashed
grass-seed on the cow-rug. O’ course dad
ain’t seen the packin’-needle.
Dad demolishes a large chunk of bread
and treacle by way of desScrt and goes off
to put fresh bedding in the calves’ pen.
Presently I hear him yelling for the nails.
He is on his knees in the pigsty and wants
me to hold the rail steady. Dad has just
hammered his finger nicely when the gate
behind creaks open. Dad concludes that
Sally has come home again. Seizing the
mallet he hurls it through the gap in the
sty; and then, clutching the axe, he puts
his head out of the hole.
The Rev. Mr. Darey-Woods, rubbing his
shinbone and looking very flustered, is
standing by the fence.
Dad is apologetic. The Rev. Mr. Darey-
Woods is polite. He has called to have a
little chat with dad. but expresses concern
at having disturbed him in the course of his
labors;.
Mum perceives the approach of the Rev.
Mr. Darey-Woods and drops Brindle’s rug
behind the flour-bin. When dad and _ the
parson reach the house she is sitting (in a
state of agitation) sewing at a grey flannel
sl.irt for the Red Cross.
The Rev. Mr. Darey-Woods seems to be
under a nervous apprehension that dad may
escape to the pigsties; but mum makes a
sort of Morse-signal to dad, and he sits down
with his eyes on the clock. It is getting on
for cow-time again.
Mum hands the parson a cup of black
tea. Before he can ask for the milk dad
remarks that a poddy broke into the cream-
house and drank up all we had. The Rev.
Mr. Darey-Woods assures us he revels in
black tea ; but I notice he nibbles round his
scone like a particularly genteel mouse at a
cheese-rind and leaves all the butter on his
saucer. His imagination presents him with
unpleasant suggestions of the poddy that
broke into the cream-house.
It is only half-past three, but dad puts
his cup on the table and reckons he will be
getting after the cows. The Rev. Mr.
Darey-Woods gulps down the last of his
tea (gurgling it in his throat) and follows
dad out to the verandah.
“And when did you hear from James
last?” he asks mum for the third time. He
lets dad get round the corner and then calls
him back.
“What the h —l,” dad begins, put off his
guard for tne moment.
The Rev. Mr. Darey-Woods clasps his
hands together as though about to suppli-
cate; then he tells dad (in the manner of
a parrot making a recitation) that his son
James has been killed, but dad must look
up and rejoice.
Then he takes his leave and neglects to
peg the gate, so that Sally comes in and
starts rooting up the mangels.
But dad is leaning against the verandah-
post and doesn’t seem to notice Sally.
E. M. K.
The Quest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE call of lands beyond the hills,
And islands set in splendid seas—
That wander lust that youth instils
With restless yearnings—broke my ease;
For flight my cagM soul was bent;
My home was walled by discontent.
Each little lane and road I knew;
No mystery held field or wood;
But o’er the far horizon grew
Strange things to see, and glamor stood
About them all. I took the track
With no regretful glances back.
I fed the hunger of my soul— _
A rich great hunger, looking high;
With distance ever as my goal,
I roamed the world with eager eye,
Through lands of strange and tropic grace,
But never found a resting-place.
Through islands splashed in vivid hues
Upon the blue of sunny seas,
Where life the wine of languor brews
And joyance grows to careless ease,
I merely passed; my lure was still
O’er spreading sea and distant hill.
I climbed where mountains reared their
heads
In snow-tipped, proud magnificence;
And, where her wonders Nature spreads,
I, passing, gave my reverence;
But only paused—a restless guest
Of all the splendor—in my quest.
The cities, life and laughter lit,
And with a myriad stars ablaze
When o’er the earth night’s shadows flit,
I met, exulting in the ways
Where human arts in beauties smile;
But only stayed a little while.
Oh. there were lands where Nature seemed
To take the brightest hues earth knows,
And splash them wide where sunlight
streamed;
Fair countries scented like a rose,
With that sweet incense that proceeds
From orchards rich, and flowered meads.
And there were places where the tide
Of human life moved great and strong;
To martial music seemed to ride
The triumph of its battle-song;
And for its feasts of joy and mirth
Was culled the best of all the earth.
And there were villages of peace,
Green bowered in their garden-land,
Where, blessed by Nature’s sure increase,
Content and plenty seemed to stand;
A wanderer from spot to spot,
I saw content, yet found it not.
Home I returned, to rest awhile.
What strange, new beauties met my
eyes!
Familiar landmarks seemed to smile
With some quaint charm. ’Twas Para-
dise !
Oh, foolish heart that once was blind —•
This was the place I left to find!
n.s.w.
HAMER.


Be Independent and Generate Your Own Current.
A Westinghouse Cross
'■
m
Vertical Enclosed
.
Semi = Diesel Oil Engine
owing to its speed, may
be direct coupled to a
GENERATOR, thus
saving floor space and belt
transmission losses.
Its Distinguishing Features
are described in Booklet
8.-0-5. Write to-day for
a copy to —
Brake Co.
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Ne /Zealand Office: 93-107[Featherston St , Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
ħ
DON’T LOOK OLD!
But restore your grey and faded hairs to their natural color with
LOCHYER’S SULPHXJR.
HAIR RESTORER
1/6 SOLD EVERYWHERE. 1/6
Loekyer’s gives health to the hair and restores the
natural color. It cleanses the scalp, and makes
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
This world-famed Hair Restorer is prepared by the great
Hair Specialists, J. Pepper & Co. Ltd., Bedford Laboratories,
London, Eng., and can be obtained direct from them by
post, or from any Chemists and Stores throughout the AVorld.
safeguard your health
Q?j£oHis Brotfngjs
CWorcdyue
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
toughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of r GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN'
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, SJ-.
Made in England.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— - ■
— FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PROFITS IN SOFT DRINKS.
Vendor Should Get All the Profits.
I
’-Q
Eckersley’s No. 68 Combined Carbonator and
Filter, with Filling Rack (1916 Model).
NOTE:
- We manufacture Glass Washers,
Filters, Beer-raising Machines
and all Accessories for the Trade.
Quadruple Your
Profits
by making your own
Aerated Water Supplies
with
Eckersley’s
Machines
Soda
Fountains.
Manufactured Solely in Australia by
CKERSLEY 8 SONS, 25a George Street, Sydney,
And Comer HAIG S CLARENDON STREETS, S. MELBOURNE.
{A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, Currie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
JOHN KIGG & SON, Dixon Street. Wellington, N.Z.
LIONEL SAMSON & SONS, Cliff Street, Fremantle, W.A.
Agents:
Look To Your Health
for it is without a doubt the most important part of a well-ordered
life. Good Health may be truly considered to be the basis of both
success and satisfaction; commercial ability as well as social qualities
are largely dependent upon the possession of this greatest of all
blessings. Now in order to enjoy good health it is essential to bear in
mind that certain conditions must prevail. The process of digestion
must be carried on with regularity and harmony; the appetite must be
good ; the bowels must be in a state of healthy activity ; the liver and
the kidneys must perform their functions with efficiency. How are
these desirable conditions to be brought about ? One simple method is
strongly recommended; namely,an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills.
This medicinal preparation has been proved beyond contradiction to
be of great value in the prevention and cure of most of the ailments to
which the digestive organs are liable. Such symptoms as biliousness,
constipation, depression, flatulence, headache, indigestion in many
distressing forms—all speedily yield to the remedial influence of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold in boxes, labelled, price Io|d. (36 pills) 1/I£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
h
No. 304 A
FOR ALL-ROUND
PIPE-THREADING
OSTER Pipe-Threading Machines excel because of
their wide range of usefulness concentrated in the
smallest floor space of any threading machines.
OSTER
MACHINES
BELT (EL MOTOR
DRIVEN
The machine shown at the left, No.
304 A, threads 8 sizes of pipe
from 1-inch to 4-inch diameter,
and bolts all sizes from $-inch to
lf-inch. Special features of Oster
Machines are: Automatic die re-
lease, quick-opening dies, automatic
oil pump and simple, convenient
die-head. For clean-cut threads
and quick work use Oster Machines.
die-
stocks and screw-
ing mach
One
your
ipe-thre
ng
Australian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, C.P.0., Melbourne, Vic,
Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
ci
ĥ
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S"
on every, bottle
and label.
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESI
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
oet>f
ITv*
Body-bui!ding power proved
equal to from 10 to 20 times
the amount of Bovril taken.
8.H.8.
Motorists’ Supplies
Your troubles will be lighter if you refer the
little arguments you have with your car to
us. We have every up-to-date accessory and
fitment, and are able to give you prompt and
efficient service in everything you need ; from
the Petrol Tank to the Exhaust; from the
Hood Top to the Tyre. When in any diffi-
culty with your car, or needing accessories
of any kind, write to us—you’ll be delighted
at the promptitude of our reply and the
efficient service we' will render. Rely upon
us giving you a square deal at all times.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty. Ltd.
334-336 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Benger’s Food
is neither a pre»
digested food nor a
mixture of dried
milk and chemical
substances.
k
VJltt
It is a natural food,
differing from ail others
in combining the princi-
ples of natural digestion.
These enable Benger’s
Food to be prepared
to suit individual needs;
to rest enfeebled di-
gestions, and nurse
them back to healthful
activity by regulated
stages.
With no other food
is this possible, and as
Benger’s Food never over-stimulates
as do many chemical foods, no re-
action follows
its use.
9
♦
Food
✓ For CHILDREN,
Invalids and the Aged.
Bender's Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids, and the
Aged, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng;
Branch offices—
New York (u.s.al 92. William* tt. Sydney in.s.w) 1-7, Pitt st
Ca"<xdia.n Ast-h's:— Natioial Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd.,
to, St. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches throughout Canada
IB9A


The All-Australian
Power Transmitter.
rMANGROVITE
which is used exclusively by the
Federal and State Governments.
Manufactured by
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 Wynyard Square, SYDNEY (only).
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
h
ĥ
The very best
stimulant for
general use-
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
Sbwu*
ħ
THE
Family
stimulaht
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARDIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
“Courier” Buildings, Brisbane; & Melbourne
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
should be
kept in
every houses
Tangrye Portable Oil Engine
Nicholson & Morrow ‘ Union” Harvester.
i i
Tangye Suction Gas Plant
Clayton fraction Engine.
r.
Clayton Portable Steam
Ensrlne.
DALGETY’S MACHINERY AGENCIES comprise the following well-known lines —
TANCVE Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Steam Engines, Boilers, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps, Winches, -Jacks, Blocks, etc. CLAYTON &s«?■■ IT LEW <>H <II
Portable Steam and Traction Engines. NICHOLSON & MORROW Farm Implements. WOLSELEY Shearing Machines and Separators. GASfc “.’jj" " es '
Aboye may be inspected at our DEPOT and SHOWROOM—MIDLER’S POINT, SYDNEY. Illustrated Catalogues Posted Free. «k.h.b> Fa i umi^Ensines.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
This year we are specialising in one of the greatest improve-
ments to the Wolseley Handpiece ever introduced—the Long-
bearing Bush. It is devised to replace the old front and back
bushes of the Handpiece, and ensures perfedt lubrication,
coolness in running, easy adjustment of parts, correct length
of bush in relation to spindle, and economy in spare parts.
Full details mailed post free on request.
Australasian Agents: DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.- ALL BRANCHES.
h
For the GARAGE
and REPAIR SHOP-
Even in the small garage and repair shop the installatioii of one of these little compressors is indispensable,
both from a point of economy and greater convenience.
INFLATING TYRES, GLEANING CARS AND INACCESSIBLE PARTS OF ENGINES, OPERATING SMALL
PNEUMATIC TOOLS, such as AIR HOISTS, RIVETING and CHIPPING HAMMERS, DRILLS, etc., are among the
numerous applications for which they are particularly recommended.
Call and inspect our Stock, or write for full descriptive Catalogue.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers (EL Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ON THE ONE HAND
UNBURNT Refuse
Result—FLlES, SMELLS,
SICKNESS, DIRT,
TYPHOID.
Prices and Particulars
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd
3
. H.. ■ ihetuiHmod:-
: ■ j§, , GARfeAO£ ...
ii i
£,l*
? i
m
1
ON THE OTHER HAND
All Refuse Absolutely Destroyed
in an Australian-made
GUTHRIDC DESTRUCTOR
NO FLIES, NO SMELLS,
Health-Giving Cleanliness.
Install One in Your House NOW.
IT COSTS LESS THAN A DOCTOR.
EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY
