

THE SPIRIT SUPERB
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
: a“™neSSto?M t A <^N Eß 'f l^ nt ’ Ameers’' and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
-J.- ** t etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
II
€.S.D.
QcUfance,
ON ALL CLASSES aT SECURITY /J
TRADE BILES DISCOUNTED. V
ILT C"»wr LOWEST INTEREST
N.S M MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? L TD
head omcE: 74 castlereagh st Sydney 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
180 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
21) King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swans ton Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
"
WRITE TO-DAY FOR SO-PAGE BOOK.
BSCILLATING
WALL
SAVE SPACE,
LABOR & MONEY
gold medal
PANAMA EXHIBITION.
BEDS
for In- and Out-door Slceplng^^
American Wall Bed 'Co.,
380 George Street, near Q.P.0., Sydney
THE BEST !
m
a
m
m
n
n
n
tuLj
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highjy nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Junket
HANSEN’S
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
I
1
mm mm
W A
&
The BEST VALUE in OIL ENGINES
■PrAft.irahlft Only at SCRUTTON’S.—
“FIELD,” “W” and “BIG CHIEF”
(America’s
Best)
ALL SIZES FROM to 12-h.p.
Full Stocks of Duplicate Parts Available but Seldom Required.
Every Engine Thoroughly Tested Before Despatch.
Cash or Easy Terms in N.S.W. only. Catalogs Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD., 161 Clarence Street, Sydney
The WHISKY of the
Connoisseur.
GAELIC
Ten Years Maturing
in Wood.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PROPY. LTD.
Agricultural Oil Tractors and Road-making Machinery.
■fIPAI
TOOTH
PA^TC
Gives a Sense of Clean
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
The Bulletin
Vol. 38.—N0. 1965. J
[Thursday, October 11, 1917,
Jiegistcred at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Austral.a, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


1
■ -NIOABn
being unsweetened and containing, a large proportion of Juniper, is specially
recommended by Doctors to those suffering from kidney complaints and for
rheumatism. The best GIN to take with Vermouth.
SEE THAT YOU GET "GILBEY'S.” Obtainable in quarts and pints.
TUCKER fc CO., SYDNEY, Sole Agents for N.S.W. [2
“An Irish Heart,’
Verses by David McKee Wright.
mins book of Mr. Wright’s best work will
JL not be offered for public sale ; but a
limited edition will be printed for subscribers
only.
Subscription, 3/0, to The Publisher “An
Irish Heart,” The Bulletin, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
Eu menthol
Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
Contains no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive
evidence of the value of “Eumenthol Jujubes as
an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet to be as effective
bacterieidally as is creosote.”
cs
The
or organ ot
B—The
or windpipe
Bronc
The
Tubes
sected lung
D—The lobe of
one of the lungs.
SOLD BY" ALL CHEMISTS, or POST FREE OX RECEIPT OF 1/6 STAMPS. I
HUDSON’S EUMEXTHOL CHEMICAL CO.. LTD., 19 Y ork Street, Sydney. I
Agencies in aU the Australian States. New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street. London. [6 I
The Red Page
Concerning “The Glugs of Gosh"
’Er name’s Doreen .... llis name ts Glug!
TFe welcome him, hut with a shrug.
These Glugs of Gloom, these Glugs of Gosh
Are orpy, UitiieAilygs of bosh:
Thqy'vt clever, bii'i will not wash!
fl’hc simplesilly song*j>f Sym
Jre neat, but :we prefer' to him
Another—pin know whpM ive mean....
’Hr name’s Doreen!
The likes of Glu&f The miles of Glug!
This long post-mortem on a slug!
Gome back, “ Den,” from the Land of Og,
The Guffer Bird, the Feasible Dog;
Gome out of Allegory’s boy:
Have done with flimsy metaphor:
Give us the skirt we all adore —-
On her a continent is keen —
’Er name’s Doreen!
’Er name’s Doreen... .It, isn't Glug:
She is the one we’d like to hug.
IFe rather like your Tailor Man;
We give three Glugs for Emily Ann;
But make her human—and you can!
You wield a neat and graceful pen;
You’ve got a pretty fancy, u Dcn” —
You know the fancy that we mean:
’Er name’s Doreen!
XYe do not like your Land of Glug;
Your fairy sermon is too smug.
Your fancies you too fiercely flog
Of Joi and Swank and Splosh and Og;
For those who put on Feasible Dog
Are handed up the Guffer Bird!
Come back to something less absurd;
And set on solid earth your scene - —-
’Er name’s Doreen.
We can’t dismiss you with a shrug.
And name you merely “(7. J. Glug.'’
There's beauty in your verse, and wit —•
Why make a whole book out off it?
Doreen is out of date a bit.
And so’s your Sentimental Bloke;
Still, Life’s a Sentimental Joke,
So give us Life, another queen
Not named Doreen.
So hie you home from Gosh and Glug;
Your grave you haven’t nearly dug.
You’ll often cheer us, cobber ”Den”;
In human heart-blood dip your pen.
Back to your old bash ’bus again!
And give us laughter, pathos, quick —
And lore and death —another Mick,
A Bloke from sentiment swept clean,
A new Doreen!
If the reader can gain entrance to the Land
of Gosh, he will be interested in the happen-
ings there: the revolt of Sym, the German
trade methods of the inhabitants of the land
of Og, and the love-story of the Tinker an 3 ?!
his Emily Ann ; but it is doubtful w'hether
his interest will last till Sym, the Tinker,
w'ins his Emily Ann: while for those slug-
gish, gluggish individuals like this page who
cannot find the “Open Sesame,” they can
merely admire Dennis’s ludicrous touch and
dextei'ous versification, while deploring the
pains he has taken over so slight a thing.
It will be interesting to see what Billjim,
poring over his special trench edition, will
make of it.
Hal Gye provides sdme charming colored
illustrations in the more expensive edition
and in the other editions a delightful fron-
tispiece and other decorations. There is
clever work here, but when so many fine
modern artists have so beautifully and
quaintly -illustrated fairy-tales, one need not
expect much originality in conception or
design.
The C Mugs of Gosh, by G. J. Dennis
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney, ordinary
edition, 4s., trench edition, 4s., and Blue
Wren edition, containing six extra colored
plates, 7s. (id.) is too gluggish for this page.
In clever and ludicrous verse Dennis intro-
duces us to the land of Gosh and its inhabi-
tants, the Glugs. Apparently a Glug is
yourself as you are, or, maybe, the man in
the street. Dennis tells us: —
A Glug is an awfully Gluglike thing and
what one Glug does the other Glugs do, and
yesterday’s Glug is the Glug of to-day, and
if you know one Glug, why, you know the
lot, and o Glug will boast that he is a Glug.
Full directions are supplied to find the
laud of Gosh : —
Wait till the clock in the tixwer booms three,
And the big bank opposite gnashes its
doors,
Then glide with a gait that is carefully free
By the great brick building of seventeen
-floors;
Haste by the draper who smirks at his door,
Straining to lure with sinister force,
Turn up the lane by the second-hand store,
And halt by the light bay carrier’s horse..
There are other ways: one is to meditate
deeply on softyoods or sea?....Then there
are the Swanks —you know them : —
They lurk in every Gov’ment lair,
Mid docket dull and dusty file,
Solemnly squat in an easy chair,
Penning a minute of rare hot air
In departmental style.
In every office, on every floor,
Are Swanks, and Swanks, distracting
Swanks,
And acting-Swanks a score,
And coldly distant. sub-assistant
Under-Swanks galore.
Drama
Though frowned at by the commercial
theatrical manager, Lord Dunsany is
acclaimed by the leading New York critics
as the foremost living English dramatist.
His remarkable plays, produced by modest
little organisations in that city, have attracted
such growing and enthusiastic audiences that
the commercial managers are not only becom-
ing annoyed but becoming annoyed in print.
Dunsany’s A Night at an Inn has been pro-
claimed the finest one-act play in English
drama, w'itfi the possible exception of Synge’s
Riders to the Sea. In Plays of Gods and
Hen (Unwin, per Sydney Book Club) the
reader has the opportunity of confirming that
judgment. Dunsany is now on active service,
a captain of the Royal Inniskilling Fusil-
iers ; and in his preface he characteristically
notes that he has not had any leisure to
write plays during the last few' years. And
W’e learn not only that these four plays
w r ere written before the outbreak of the war,
but that the first act of “The Tents of the
The Old ’Bus, where C. J. Dennis wrote
“The Sentimental Bloke."
Arabs” w r as written on one day and the
second in a day a w r eek later: that of another
play two acts were written on one day, and
the third on the fourth and fifth days fol-
lowing : that “The Queen’s Enemies” took
him six days, but that “A Night at an Inn”
was completed in one day. It must be re-
membered that the actual writing of a play
is the easiest and quickest part of its com-
position : Dunsany does not tell us how' long
and how earnestly he brooded over his plot
and characterisation.
Dunsany usually sets his dramas neither
in time nor space, but he peoples them with
breathing human beings. One of his dramas
is set “about the time of the decadence in
Babylon,” and the action takes place in “the
jungle city of Thek in the reign of King
Karnos.” Another is set “outside the gate
of the city of Thalanna,” and all that we
are told about the time is that it is uncer-
tain. A third takes place in an underground
temple in Egypt in the Sixth Dynasty. Only
that perfect melodrama, “A Night at an
Inn,” is placed in modern times, but one
knows that the inn is no ordinary pub, and
that, despite the cheerful sailors present,
the ancient gods are outside on the lonely
moor, and at any moment may look through
the window.
The best plays in this book are the short-
est. Dunsany’s genius does not stand being
diluted: he must pack all time and space
within one short act. “The Laughter of the
Gods” and “The Tents of the Arabs” are
vaguely beautiful and vaguely dramatic,
filled with the beautiful cadence of Duusay’s
prose: thus King Karnos speaks of his
jungle city, Thek: “Look upon Thek. It is
built of rock and our palace is all of marble.
Time has not scratched it with six cen-
turies. Six tearing centuries with all their
claw's. We are throned on gold and founded
on marble. Sire after sire of mine has died
but has left our dynasty laughing sheer in
the face of Time from over these age-old
w r alls.” And Dunsany makes you feel, almost
like a hand on your shoulder, the impending
doom of Thek that is being brought to pass
by the forgotten gods. With the coming of
the night Thek will be destroyed—if there
are gods; and at sunset their prophet will be
executed if his prophecy is false. There is
tense drama in the scarlet figure of the exe-
cutioner with his axe, creeping after the
prophet, coming closer each hour and wait-
ing for the sun to set. “He invented a new
stroke lately, but he has not had a man since
we came to Thek.”
“The Queen’s Enemies” is one brief act of
thrilling drama, in which the weak and
trembling queen, a mere girl, destroys her
powerful enemies. She invites them to a
banquet in a little temple below the Nile.
The princes and kings, the" priests and “the
twin dukes of Ethiopia” come down the steps
with their swords ready for every treachery:
they suspect poison in the banquet, and
secretly give the food and drink to their
slaves: then cautiously they eat, but they
never lose their fear; and when the queen
leaves them their first act is to draw their
wide swords and lay them before them on
the table. The two dukes stand guarding a
black entrance: they find the door by vylncli
they came locked: these great princes are
ready in their strength for whatever danger
impends : the tension grows, till from the one
direction they had overlooked swift destruc-
tion comes upon them, and the young queen,
who had not been able' to sleep at night
because of her enemies, assures her hand-
maiden that this night she will sleep sweetly.
“A Night at an Inn” deals with the theft
of a gigantic ruby front the forehead of the
Indian idol Klesh. It was stolen by some
sailor men ; but the three priests of the temple
pursue the thieves. We find the sailors in a
lonely inn in England, rented by their leader,
a decayed gentleman known as the Toff, for
the purpose of settling accounts with the
priests. For the priests are after them;
they have already Wreaked vengeance upon
two of the sailors, and though Albert assures
Sniggers that he has given the pursuing
priests the slip,, the Toff knows better. The
sailors grow tired of
waiting for their adi'er-
saries; the Toff hands
them the ruby and lets
them go. A minute
later the scared sailors
are back, as the Toff
expected—they had seen
the three priests on the
moor. The Toff is a
clever man, the acknow-
ledged leader of these
common sailors. He ad-
mits that he is clever —-
too clever. That is why
he is now a mere
sailor; he was too clever
for his gentlemen
friends —he never lost a
game of cards in his
life, when there was
money on it! Noav he
is pitting his w'its
against those of the
priests—and, though he
doesn’t know it, against something greater.
How in turn each priest is slain needs
not be told ; but, if. the commercial managers
insist on action, here it is. Then the grate-
ful, adoring sailors toast the health of their
leader —and then Sniggers sees something in
the garden, something awful.
Terrified, Sniggers implores the Toff to
accept his share of the ruby ; Sniggers no
longer wants it. The Toff thinks that
Sniggers has the police, but it is
something worse than the police. In the
silence “stony steps are heard. Enter a
hideous idol. It is blind and gropes its
way. It gropes its way to the ruby and
picks it up and screw's it into a socket in
the forehead. Sniggers weeps softly, the
rest stare in horror. The idol steps out not
groping. Its steps move off, then stop.”
The idol has got its eye back, and the sailors
think they are saved. But they aren’t.. . .
There was one thing that that too clever
Toff did not foresee. The horror of their
fate is but faintly indicated in the published
script, for Dunsany is extremely sparing of
stage directions; but on the stage as each
character in turn is called by that outlandish
voice outside and, as though gripped by
tremendous unseen claws, is dragged out-
side, the effect must be appalling.
It is almost superfluous to say that in
the frequent trips made by Australian mam
agers to New York none of them has dis-
covered Dunsany; and his first book of plays
w 7 as published years ago.
J*
It is quite likely, however, that an Aus-
tralian manager may discover General Post,
by J. E. Harold Terry, since it has been
running in London since last March. It
is a pleasant play, a commercial success for
several good reasons. It is cheap to cast
and produce: one scene suffices for all the
acts, there are only seven persons on the
stage, none of the parts call for virtuosity
in acting, the types are broad and easily
recognisable, and all equally bid for the
sympathy of the audience. There is no vil-
lain in the piece; and the “action” for which
the commercial manager is always calling
is practically absent; the play develops
naturally by means of simple and unaffected
dialogue. It deals with the war, but at a
discreet distance: the audience understands
that there is a war on somewhere, but knows
that nobody is going to get hurt in it.
In the first act, which occurs in 1911, the
daughter of a county magnate Rills in love
with a tailor; and w'hen her father discovers
this shocking affair he sends her to exile in
Germany. However, the tailor insists that
this is unnecessary: he points out to the
father that his love for the girl may cause
the father annoyance, but for a tailor it
w'ould spell disaster. “I should lose all my
custom. I might as well shut up shop. No-
body is going to employ a tailor who’s got a
reputation for —well, for forgetting his
place.” So he leaves for London. The
author has taken full advantage of the
comedy to be extracted from a scene where
the tailor measures the enraged father for
a suit. The second act takes place on the
outbreak of the war; and of course that
tailor is now' Colonel in a Territorial regi-
ment in which the girl’s brother is a sub-
altern. This youth, who had scorned the
county tailor who took his duties as a Terri
tcrial officer so seriously in 1911, now ado '
his C.O. He brings him down to his father’s
house ; and, as the father is now a private
in the National Volunteers, there is plenty
of opportunity for good comedy in their
changed relations caused by this “general
post.” This is further complicated by the
arrival of the Colonel’s brother, who had
taken over his brother’s shop. Act three
occurs in 19 —•? The tailor returns a
brigadier-general and a V.C. The number
of V.C.’s bestowed by dramatists upon their
heroes during this war has reduced that
stage distinction to the value of an iron
cross. And though there is no reason at
all why the girl and her Brigadier Tailor
should not become engaged, and the girl’s
parents are as eager for the match as before
the war they were against it, the author
arranges a trivial obstacle in order to have
a third act at all.
Jt
How different is the Russian dramatist's
treatment of war! Artzibashef’s “War”
(Knopf, New York) is similar in arrange-
ment, the first act, which has no action
in it and is merely a picture that might
have been omitted, shows Russia before the
war. But he gains a valuable contrast by
this means. There, too, a “general post”
occurs, the weaklings of the first act becom-
ing the strong men of the succeeding acts.
And this play is a tragedy; the dramatist
is unable to deflect or ignore the shells that
slay the son of the house or make a help-
less cripple of the heroine’s husband. The
pathos of the stricken father and mother is
almost over whelming in its quiet resigna-
tion. And there is brilliant psychology
in this gallery of strongly differentiated and
subtly interesting characters. This drama
tells us more of Russia’s attitude to the
war than all the Petrograd communiques.
No doubt - this brilliant work of art would
be a commercial success in Russia—if there
are at present any theatres or audiences in
Russia—-just as the discreet and sentiment-
ally humorous treatment of the same sub-
ject is a commercial success in England. It
is all a question of audiences and what they
like.
Wanted: An inscription for an
Honor Roll
Tamworth District means to erect a me-
morial to her soldier dead, an honor-roll at
the Tamworth Post Office, which it is pro-
posed every citizen should salute on passing
it for the first time each day, and which
the Tamworth women will beautify with
flower-beds. For this honor-roll of those who
died that we might live, Tamworth wants an
inscription, and appeals to this page for the
right one. F. G. Adamson, who invites our
co-operation, asks for “an Australian to com-
pose an appropriate inscription with Aus-
tralian sentiment, setting, sympathy, strongly
suggestive of Australia mourning, yet proud
of her dead, and giving an inspiration to
those who will follow' us, showing we are
not unworthy of those w r ho pioneered the
great land, blazed the track, and did big
things.” The nearest he can get to his
meaning is Carlyle’s- “Not in retreating, not
in resisting, but in strenuously urging for-
ward, so does our life consist.”
This page is glad to help. It offers 10s
6d. for the best Australian inscription for a
tablet upon a memorial to Australians killed
while fighting for their country. The inscrip-
tion should be brief: it must not be selected
from the works of any writer: over-seas; but
it may either be the original composition,
prose or verse, of the competitor, or selected
from the published work of any Australian
writer. If the Australian writer does not
himself send in the quotation considered tht
best by this page, the first competitor wh<
forwards that quotation will be awarded
the prize. As every hamlet and city in
Australia will ultimately have its local me-
morial. this page hopes that the selections
or original compositions sent in will be oi
a sufficiently high standard to enable us tc
offer a wide choice for other memorials,
Entries close, addressed to this page, by
November 17.
Hitherto Germany has had a monopoly of
the printing of those atlases of the human
body that show in color the arrangement of
’he veins, muscles and organs of the body:
but Bailliere, Tindall and Cox. London, have
now produced Bailliere’s Popular Atlas of
the Anatomy and Physiology of the Female
Human Body (45.), a British production
throughout, and more accurate in detail than
its predecessors. This excellent specimen of
lithography is designed specially for use in
secondary girls’ schools and for first-aid
classes.
Dinfcum Billy, by Moira Harmer, illus-
trated by C.. 11. Hunt (Trenerry. Manly;
3s. 6d.. profits for War Chest), consists of
dull and unimaginative rimes and stories for
kiddies, with wooden illustrations to match.


V
1!
* H*‘
!
Jruro
c TCenhyt
o^/alma
THE TRURO. — Smartly-tailored Costume of Cream Pencil-stripe serge, Coat finished
with strappings and buttons on sides and sleeves; full Skirt, with Belt at waist .. £5/5/-
THE HENLEY. — This Becoming Costume of Check Suiting is exceptionally
smart; Coat has new Collar and Cuffs of Black Satin, finished with swing pockets falling
from Black Satin Belt at waist; Skirt is the new four-piece, slightly eased at waist. . 69/6
THE PALMA. Very Chic Gown Of Mole Chiffon Taffeta, with decorative Bodice and
becoming stand-away Collar of Ivory Kid, daintily hand-worked ; pleated side panels give a
touch of distinction to the Skirt £6/16/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR
FASHION 8 ECONOMY.
%
T cannot be too often reiterated that Customers
Ordering by Post through the Agency of ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ Mail Order System are treated in the
same way as patrons who make their selections at the
counters of the New Palace Emporium. The accept-
ance of this principle is responsible for the big
business we transact with our friends in every corner of the
continent. Not only are customers’ needs faithfully attended to,
but the expenditure is considerably reduced by the money-saving
influence of ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
A further advantage of ordering through the post is that pur-
chasers of Drapery, Clothing, Boots and Shoes, Electro-plate and
Jewellery to the value of £2/10/- and upwards will have their
goods delivered to any railway station or port in N. S. Wales, or to
any seaport in Queensland, Northern Territory, Victoria, South
Australia and Tasmania, free of all freight charges. This means
that dwellers in the remotest seaports of the States mentioned can
have the above specified articles delivered to them at the same cost
as if they had bought them over the counter. Be wise! Pop your
orders in the post, and reap the full benefit of our Unique System
of Spot-Cash Trading.
V :
\
>*
f
■
M
\
MONEY MARES A GOOD SOLDIER —
Buy WAR-LOAN BONDS
Ins
Doris
CLidys-
THE DORlS.—Serviceable Coat and Skirt, in Poplin. Sport-Style Coat with Small
Sailor Collar of White, Self Revers, trimmed cable-stitching and buttons; full Svii , nls
with belt, in Rose, Grey, Fawn, Saxe and Black 39/6
the IRlS.—Neat Sports Costume, in White Japanese Silk, with two cross strappings
to form belt. New four-piece Skirt, slightly eased at back, with belt attachec . ...
Similar design, but with plain belt —Saxe, Rose, Grey, Fawn, or Black Poplin (1023). . 35/-
Also in Ivory Japanese Silk (153) * 5 J'/6
In Sicilian, Navy, Nigger and Black (146)
In Tussore Silk (719) ■ ■ : 49/6
And (119) without pockets 49/6
THE GLADYS. Coat Frock, in light-weight Gabardine Coating, Bronze shade only,
finished shaped Roll Collar, Empiecements on Body, and pleats from waist • • 49/0
r?
%
» •*-
mt
A
v
-O
&
N
r
FI or is
MfiVis
Phyllis'
THE PHYLLIS.—Smart Coat Frock, in White Linen, trimmed with heavy Guipure
Lace, with pretty shaped Collar and Belt 45/
THE FLOUTS. Smart Coat and Skirt, in White China Silk, cut on graceful lines
with becoming Collar and Belt of Spotted Corded Silk , G9/6
Similar style, with satchel-effect pockets, in plain White Pique (302), 29/6
THE MAVIS. Up-to-date Costume, in White Linen, deep Sailor Collar, cross over
front fastening on right side with Buttons of Self; Smart full Skirt finished with fancy
ANTHON Y HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


'<4
V
J
IX i
Rifle and Pistol
Cartridges
When you go to buy car-
tridges for your rifle or
pistol, you want to con-
sider that you’re buying
something “sight un-
seen.” In other words,
“you don’t know what’s
in ’em.” That’s the very
reason why you should
buy a reliable make. The
reputation of Winchester
cartridges is sufficient for
you. They are always
reliable. They are made
for all kinds of rifles and
pistols, and you’ll be sure
to get this celebrated
make if you ask for
BRAND
))
Wit*
Waterman’s
Idealf
Fountain/Pen
THERE he goes, with a merry heart and
a springy step, glad to “do his bit ”
confident in his fitness and prepared
to rough it with the best of ’em. But not
prepared to put up with the discomfort of
camp pens and “ service ” pencils. Oh
dear, no! he believes in a first-rate equip-
ment, so he arms himself with a
“Safety” type. Waterman’s Ideal— the
perfect and ever-ready fountain pen.
Far away from home, it will be
his easy means of com-
munication with relatives and
friends left behind. What a
boon it will be to him !
Three types—-
Regular, Safety, and Lever
Pocket Self-F.liing.
Of Stationers & Jewellers everywhere •
L. G. Sloan,
Ct dorrrer,
London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon
105, Cl irence St., Sydney. ’
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him*
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Price
si
idns
flMwn
DARBY AUTO
SUPPLIES
Co.Pty.U’d
2'9
Posh Paid
334 Elizabeth
STREET
HELBOURNE-
ge*. ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not o'nlv
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AI It CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
’This is something ENTIRELY NEW; °it is'
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Tt is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
rrUIE thing thnt the people should have
X been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
HCPJIOBILE MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater. Motor:
Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (3fin. x 54in.).
Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater).
Ijies 8(5 x 105 m/m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120
m/m or 35in. x 44in. on 7-seater, non-skid tyres on all rear
wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting and lighting
system, Mind screen, hood, side curtains, door-curtain carriers,
speedometer, robe rail, foot rail, carpet in tonneau, five demount-
able rims, tyre-carrier, pump, jack, and full set of tools—Magneto
ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
m
©
5-Sea ter—Wheel Base 119 inches.
7he mark ofsupertor
jtz a tor car'Servicq
EDUY the Hupmo-
bile for its beauty.
It is distinctive in style,
in refinement.
Buy it for performance.
It is not excelled by
other fours or by multi-
cylinder types.
Buy it for quality. It is
sound value —maintain-
ing the reputation it has
held for years.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENYIS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICIv & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.— Cable Address: “HUPP DETROIT”


1 Great REMEDY for
bladdertrouble.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
toi soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
oains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous. , . . , ,
This torture and pain is caused through
e erms in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
aud Bladder Pills contain a .very strong,
ref marvellously soothing antiseptic, which
p E; WITTk
Kidney&BladderPills
I These Pills also act on the liven 4
k not GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE j
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
‘every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color—a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidney# Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
the GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT **
& ItHEUMATIC I’ILLS.
1 lie famous Remedy that actually re-
s' ml??eumatism, gout, lumbago,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR KHEUMA-
TISM.
. ~T >” r e* -v ' e " p table. Sure and Safe.
• Drug Stores. 1/- and 2/C per box.
22'.> Strand. London.
CIUC)
Restore ijc?
4feur iv
M \
&
a* > *
"Dobtain'nku^i 11 S ,^ ex ' can Walnut Stain is
In plain w . locally it will be posted direct
DUERniM . T' r on roceipt of 4 / 6 by
K. w. BRflm S rv N^ BURY ’ Melbourn e-
T. [ SFcrie’- Woran d° Buildings, Adelaide.
City Buildings, Brisbane.
If
jlci-LEm il ' u ,^ ratio n appearing in Tiie
wh 0 k wiii yollr . fancy ’ write to the
w dl quote you price for it.
In Grandpa’s Courting Days
Yes. as long ago as that —there was a standard safe-
and-sure, proved effective family remedy for
all throat and chest troubles, and its name was
To-day it is still the safest, speediest,
surest Remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis Whooping Cough and
Influenza, relief of Asthma and a
preventive of Pneumonia. If it ftn’t
Bonnington s it isn’t any good.
Large & Small Bottles. 1/6 & 2/6
CHRISTIES
SP£CtAUS£
L //Vt O
S
0
WQiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
Zf /iO/MTER NEWCASTLE
ROSS
RIFLES
OF PROVED
MERIT.
Calibres i
•22
•280
•303
ALCOCK & PIERCE
PTY. LTD.
318 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. AH Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Handvvick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
Tirettotte
This Name is the Word of
Honour in Tyre Making
ON every Firestone Tyre there is stamped
the name of its maker, H. S. Firestone,
President of the Firestone Tire and Rubber
Company of America.
This name is your pledge of personal re-
sponsibility for good service. It is your
assurance that Firestone Tyres have that
toughness with resiliency which gives you
long and easy riding on any kind of road.
We endorse their quality and recommend
them, under all conditions, for best and
longest wear.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatrick & C 0.,. Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wei
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for
Illustrated Literature
\
1,
l
iv*
\
X
m
u>
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
- ow, lilting laughter, gold airs swing
Adown the pale skies, and endow
\\ ith points of light each umber bough,
raint firstlings of the buds of Spring.
Now, pouring perfume from her cruse
Ot crystal, Spring bestrides the world,
As, with a daffodil uncurl’d,
She tickles ev’ry rhyming muse.
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.
Ghosts.
How can a man forget, who from this hell
taggers alone half-blinded and afraid,
-Lhe memories these awful nights have
made,
And burnt into his soul with sound and
shell?
M ill there be peace for him who struggled
well.
And rest for him beyond the light and
shade
Of ghost-battalions on the brain arrayed
lasing for ever where their bodies fell?
If sleep doth but raise armies of the dead,
And deeper sleep and dreams but make them
live
And move across these flame-scarred fields
again—
If love, nor age, can stay the heavy tread
Of dead men marching, surely death will
give
To him the peace that battle gave the
slain !
the SOMME.
C. S. M. BAKER.
Would You?
W ould you love me still, I wonder,
Would you care for me a little.
If I lost my head, went under.
Cast away each jot and tittle
Of the poor respect they fling me,
Of the trifling joy they bring me,
All the peering, anxious people,
All the cackling, foolish people?
This your passion, is it brittle?
Would it stand the test, I wonder,
If I came to smash, went under,
Chucked my cap above the steeple,
Made a mock of those that chide me,
Those that scurvily deride me,
Of the shallow apes that scorn me.
Of the knaves that would suborn me?
If my god turned all to ill,
Would you love me, love me still?
Precious lot I care (between us,
This confession, slave o’ Venus),
As I lie and let you kiss me,
If I die and you don’t miss me !
Here we lie, and sweet the night is:
Sweet as Jove’s or Aphrodite’s.
Here we lie, and sweet to note is
This: how rapturous white your throat is!
How deliciously entwining
These your arms! llow richly shining
These your eyes! Why guess at sorrow
\\ bile to-night shuts off to-morrow?
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Wardrobe.
From her wardrobe Mistress Nature,
At the breaking of the day,
That her beauty might be suited,
Had arrayed herself in grey;
In a mantle soft and trailing,
Jewelled by the dew’s liquescence,
Half revealing and half veiling
All the sweetness of her presence.
From her band of brave musicians.
Just to suit her gentle vein.
While the minstrel host were sleeping
She had wakened singers twain ;
And the bird with dewy feather
And the breaker shoreward streaming
In the stillness sang together
Y\ hile she hearkened, greyly gleaming.
From her wardrobe Mistress Nature,
In the sunlight’s early sheen,
Drew a mantle, for the moment,
Such as never mortal queen
From her stores of silken treasure
Donned to drape her shapely shoulders
For her lh?ge lord’s royal pleasure
And the joy of all beholders.
And her band of brave musicians,
At the coming of the breeze,
Made the halls of morn orchestral
With their gladsome melodies;
For the soft winds seemed to waken
Sylvan singers, merry-noted.
From the tall trees, tossed and shaken.
To the morning bird green-throated.
’Tis the same when morning passes
And the lights of noontide flower;
For a dressy dame is Nature
With her fashions for the hour.
When the birds of morning carolled
She was dressed in vestures tender;
Now she goes in gold apparelled.
Slashed with green and azure splendor.
And her band of brave musicians,
As the moments onward swing,
Sing as never singers chorused
In the court of queen or king;
For it is their winsome duty,
Through the green and golden weather,
Thus to fill the scene with beauty,
Feathered folk and winds together.
When the golden day has ended
And the lights of sunset wane.
’Tis a mantle grey and sober
That she wears to suit her vein ;
*And the shadows deepen slowly.
And the darkness fills her tresses,
As with slumber, deep and holy.
All the aching world she blesses.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


f(eep yfe
Mr. E. Jeff kins, who
arrived back in Sydney
on 28th September, after
a very wet and heavy
trip on the return jour-
ney from Melbourne,
in " his All-Australian
“Eoo” Car, reports: —
The Perdriau Tyres with
which the car is shod did not
give the slightest trouble
throughout the entire jour-
ney.
Running through the
roughest country, parts of
which were entirely under
water, the Tyres stood this
extremely severe test, which
shows that: —
ISTo matter what the
test —over good or bad
roads, wet or fine —the
Perdriau All-Australian
Tyre can be depended
upon at all times.
M'-
&
«...
*■
J§|§
£
,4'S
/.feCjUf-
u
M
OF
Melbo
m
rne&Re
UPN
fIM
0/9/
The
»
*
«
IT
ptROB^
i
BIST
THt
r,
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd. All States.
k
m
John Lysaght Limited will be pleased, upon
application, to forward a free copy of the
new and enlarged edition of their “ Referee "
to Every Property Owner and Galvanized
Iron User. This Book contains a quantity
of carefully compiled infor-
mation which will be found
both useful and interesting.
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Supplied to the
Naval and Military
Authorities in
Great Britain and
Australia.
THE
ABBOT
Drip Filters.
FOUNTAIN
GLASS PORTABLE
WATER BAG
POCKET.
WATER
FILTER
Pressure Filters.
HOUSEHOLD
TAP
COUNTER
LARGE SERVICE.
MANUFACTURED BY
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
HE
T
f
A Boy at the Front Wrote —
“We can get plenty of Tobacco and Cigarettes.
WHAT WE WANT ARE THINGS TO EAT.
Could he ask in plainer terms for
‘Rex’ Luncheon Cheese
the tastiest and best tinned Cheese on the market?
Send him half a dozen tins to-day. Rex Luncheon
Cheese keeps well when opened, and spreads
like butter. Being perfectly matured, it
assists digestion. It is wholesome and
nourishing.
All Grocers sell it.
Take a tin of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
to your next picnic.
Slice it thin for Sandwiches,
or eat with Salad.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
uu mu
v \)NC/y^
%
p
*c C
zr
The spirit
that delights.
The exquisite flavor of Thorne’s Whisky denotes
excelleftt quality.
Huge reserves ensure its high standard of merit being
upheld.
Call for Thorne’s next time.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.
Real purity and richness in higher ethers are two reasons
why the use of Martell's in hospitals is endorsed by
doctors.
Martell’s
Brandy.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, !ST,S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1965.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1917.
Price 6d.
HIS CONSCIENCE CLEAR.
WILHELM: “I swear to Heaven that I never desired this war!”
THE JOKE OF THE FAMILY: “No, Pa; what you desired was a very different sort of war, wasn’t it?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and M.-Leod Streets, Mosman, for Thf.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
• Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Neivspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and, others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
Zj.S 1 ; J Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu —Hume News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord llowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1917.
HUNGER.
In all the terrible armory of nature hunger
is the weapon with the keenest edge and the
hardest temper. Always it is finding the
weak spots in the organisation of both savage
and civilised man ; and never in all the years
of man’s story have hunger and plain justice
come to any working understanding. Scrip-
ture lays down the principle that those who
do not work shall not eat; and something of
the kind was no doubt nature’s original in-
tent. Placed by himself on a desert island
the individual man must hustle or starve;
but when it comes to the communities of
man it is too often the fact that the worst
idler of all is the best fed and that starva-
tion finds perfectly innocent victims among
those who with much honest sweat had
justly earned the right to live for further
toil. It is for this reason mainly that
hunger and human thought form an explo-
sive compound. Nothing has fostered re-
bellion like hunger ; no other moving cause
has so often led to revolution. The associa-
tion of men together in States and commu-
nities for mutual protection has from first to
last been mainly an association on a food
basis. Hunger has been the chief enemy to
guard against. The war-making foe was to
be chiefly resisted because his triumph meant
a depletion of the means of living. The
territorial borders must be protected because
within them lay the fields where the break-
fast grew and the dinner fattened. No man
questioned these things in earlier primitive
days; but they have become partially
obscured by the complexities of life and
trade in the midst of which the modern
State exists. The stroke of modern hunger
has come from within and not from without.
London’s East End tightened its belt in the
days of plenty and profound peace, and Paris
before the Revolution toiled for the husks
while hereditary idlers ate up the fatness of
a splendid country. The tragedy of the
modern State is that it has not seriously
faced its problems of internal hunger, but
has left its food supplies, which are its life,
to the large but somewhat uncertain energies
of those who make profit from the necessities
of the multitudes. In its protection of its
citizens it has not taken careful measures to
insure the distribution of food where
it was most needed. That has been
regarded as the business of the in-
dividual citizen who must catch his prey
from the shops in the jungle of civilisation
much as his most ancient fathers caught
theirs in the forest glade, but without the
freedom of movement which the ancient
hunter possessed. For this reason the
danger is always present. Thought meets
hunger; they combine chemically; the result
is an explosion worse than that of gelignite
or the clash of armed forces.
* * ¥ *
Worse than all this, hunger has come to
be regarded as a legitimate weapon of social
strife. When slavery died and the freedom
of man to work in his own way for his own
benefit took its place, the compelling force of
the new labor was supposed to be hunger.
No longer was there a whip to drive the
masses of the people to do the job that the
free top-surface of the nation thought desir-
able, but statecraft deemed it probable that
sheer necessity would still provide labor even
for the hardest and most unpleasant tasks.
In a’general way it worked out like that.
Even the soldier could be got from the ranks
of those who felt the squeeze of their condi-
tions for a little food and a shilling or less a
day. The people could not revolt because
of the ever-pressing necessity to keep on get-
ting something to eat. But there came
times when there was nothing to eat even
for those who were ready to toil for it, and
the result was that the people thought in
bitterness of heart and explosions occurred
which wrecked the State. In modern times
this force of hunger has had its recognised
place in social warfare. Employers have
definitely tried to starve their workers into
submission, and workers have as definitely
tried to starve the public into forcing their
employers to grant their demands. The
terrible weapon has been as ruthlessly em-
ployed in industrial strife as poisonous gas
or aerial bombs in the present war, and the
dreadful fact has been obscured or ignored
that the sufferers are not the strong men of
the community but the women and little
children. Lately the strikers in this coun-
try made a direct attack on the food sup-
plies. At the command of unionists, articles
of daily necessity were declared “black,” and,
reckless of human suffering, the war was
pushed right into the kitchens and cupboards
of the poor. That the strikers did not gain
their ends, and that whatever suffering
there was recoiled upon themselves, does not
alter their clear intention. The people were
to have been starved until, amid the wailing
of hungry children and the desperation of
frantic mothers, the official heads of the
State gave up the struggle and took their
orders from Labor committees and bosses.
But the State, as a whole, was too loyal to
itself to permit the attempt to succeed, and
the pain and suffering was in the main con-
fined to the children of the strikers them-
selves. That in previous strikes the weapon
of hunger had been to some extent depended
upon by employers to defeat the workers
offers no excuse for the shame of its employ-
ment against the whole State; and the spec-
tacle of loyal workers toiling amid abuse
and threat to feed the children of the strikers
was a painful satire upon the strike leaders.
But there is not the smallest sign that those
leaders have repented of their criminal
folly; for, although a child is reported to
have died of starvation on the steps of
Sydney Trades Hall, and such destitution
exists as to call for special public subscrip-
tions. the Eight Hours banquet was held as
usual, and the Labor bosses feasted while
the strikers’ little ones went hungry to bed.
* * * *
Apart altogether from the question of
Labor wars and social strife, there is a call
for a new propaganda against hunger. The
State cannot afford to allow its children to
be starved whether the parents act well or
ill. Some kind of arrangement must be
devised by which there shall be at least
bread for the hungry, whatever disturbances
there may be in the industrial sphere. Wild
persons of disordered logic scream about the
State being a system of organised robbery.
The State, as represented by big-hearted
but doubtfully-led men and women who form
the vast majority of its citizens, has no
intention of being anything of the kind;
and judged fairly by its efforts it is nothing
of the kind. But the child who goes hungry
in a land where food is in abundance must
grow up with bitterness in his heart against
all authority that permitted Kim to do so.
That he will have the same bitterness in
his heart against the Labor system which
forced the hands of those in authority in
order that he might starve does not better
the case. A bitter-hearted child is a tragedy ;
and a generation of bitter-hearted men and
women would do more to retard the progress
of a nation than all evils that might come
from without. There ought to be room for
a common understanding here among men
of all shades of political feeling. A terrible
calamity has been very narrowly avoided
and a truce of all social warfare might well
be declared in Australia to settle once and
for all the age-long controversy with the
great force of hunger. Because it strikes
the helpless and sears the future there
should be a complete undertaking on all
sides that, come what may, the appeal shall
never again be made to hunger to arbitrate
between cause and cause. Men may hold
rabid enough views on all political questions
without dragging the small child into the
centre of their dog-fight. There is a plat-
form upon which everybody with anything
like decent instincts can meet and a policy
which should appeal to every citizen. Its
single plank is the welfare of the child.
That is, after all, the key of all possible
reforms. Let us start at the beginning and
invent some machinery by which, in spite
of war, strike, want of thrift, financial de-
pression or any other calamity, the child
shall always and under all conditions have
something to eat.
THE EXPLOITATION OF THE PUBLIC
THROUGH THE HORSE.
During a discussion in the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council the other day, ex-
Premier Joe Carruthers, putting in a
word for the pony-racing in which he has a
substantial investment, expressed his great
admiration for a person named Nero and
sympathy with people who promote compe-
tion between horses, diminutive and other-
wise. It transpired that the defunct Roman
found favor in the eyes of Joseph because
he gave the people “bread and games” was,
in fact, an enlightened potentate who ruled
on the principle that if the average man had
plenty of grub and amusement he was not
likely to waste time attending stances ot
the I.W.W. Wherefore J. Carrutiiers
solemnly insisted upon the promoters of pro-
prietary racing clubs being recognised as
public benefactors. Do they not supply, the
community with opportunities for relaxation?
Is not the turf a magnificent safety-valve?
And he answered himself. Of course! By
a coincidence it happened that just about
the time this agitated pleader was expound-
ing his theory about safety-valves in the
interests of social tranquillity, the .Federal
Government was working off what it called
Curtailment of Sport; and by a further
remarkable coincidence the net result of the
alleged curtailment is to put the caterer for
ponies on a better wicket than ever, to leave
the proprietary club as close to where the
profits are as it was before, and to make it
appear that, in the judgment of the Win-the-
War Ministry, the racecourse exists for the
purpose of giving the public frequent oppor-
tunity to back the winner of the Flying
Handicap.
* * * *
Now, this notion of the turf being an
institution to be used like the theatre and
the picture-show for the purpose of provid-
ing the citizen with entertainment is hope-
lessly wrong. It has led to many evils in
Australia, and the time was long ago dead-
ripe for Parliaments to get down to the bed-
rock of the thing and purge the business of, at
any rate, its grosser forms of offensiveness.
There is no reason in theory nor excuse in
practice for the Australian racecourse carry-
ing a heavv outer fringe of thugdom. Nor is
there any justification for pretending that it
is not carrying that fringe. The defence of
the racecourse as an institution rests, not
upon the fact that if races are held thou-
sands will rush through the gates in search
of winners and forget everything else (in-
cluding the war), but upon the case for the
thoroughbred horse. Otherwise the com-
munity might just as well have national
cock-fights and municipal two-up schools.
And the case for the thoroughbred is that
only by the test of speed and endurance
afforded by the racecourse can the most vital
animals be discovered —that by. the separa-
tion of the best from the inferior animal
the stoutest strains may be used for selec-
tive breeding and the horse maintained at
the highest state of development. To breed
a Carbine or an Abercorn or a Woorak or
something having eq al endowment of speed
and courage is the aim of the breeder, and
it is certain he would not know whether he
had a champion or a weed unless its quali-
ties could be tested. This forms a reason-
able excuse for the racecourse. In the con-
sideration of public policy relating thereto,
the application of the racecourse test to the
thoroughbred stock of the country should be
the only object in view. If the people like
to find relaxation or a safety-valve in con-
templating the trials of horses for pace and
staying power and everything that goes to
prove vitality, there is nothing to grumble
about. It is, on the whole, well that they
should, for horse-racing is in itself a very
fine sport from which the mere looker-on
can derive entertainment and a certain
amount of profit. But it is ridiculous to
say that the tests must be extended to meet
the appetite of the crowd —that horses must
be raced, not because such racing serves
any purpose connected with the discovery of
the stoutest strains of blood, but because
the public thirsts for the excitement of the
close finish and the incidental wager. This
sinister idea has prevailed far too long and
has led to the growth all over Australia of
racing clubs which turn the public weakness
into sources of immense private revenue,
bring nearly everything that may be said
about horse-breeding into contempt, and call
into existence a horde of unsavory adven-
turers and pot-house loafers who live pre-
cariously on the game. Everybody knows
that this is the case. There is no defence
for it. It is a scandal for which Parlia-
ments are entirely responsible. All the
yarns about gambling being an ineradicable
part of human nature, and the public’s affec-
tion for the horse, and the desirableness of
affording the citizen chances of relaxation
and so on —all the weary drivel by which
some vague connection is sought to be estab-
lished between individual freedom and the
price of yearlings—is three-parts blither and
the rest unqualified perjury. The position
of the racing business now is practically the
same as that of the Agricultural Show would
be if one were held every day in the week,
the winner of the Highweight Handicap
being the steer that yielded the largest
quantity of beef.
* * * *
So this paper could understand racing in
Australia being conducted for the purpose of
revealing the best horses of the year. But it
cannot understand the continual prevalence
of races for horses unable to compete with
the best, with the consequence that the mean-
est of squibs becomes a marketable commod-
ity and a subject of earnest attention in the
newspapers. The only thing to be said for
this is what Joe Carruthers says, and every
word of it is mischievous. There are a
hundred social reasons why such trash
should be treated by Parliament with con-
tempt, and why this non-sporting branch of
sport should be sawed off. The excuse that
the horse-breeding industry would be endan-
gered and breeders go out of business unless
everything on four legs could command a
high-priced market is an invention. The
allegation is sufficiently met by the answer
that when the second- and third-rate animals
have been eliminated by the test of the race-
course, no rational grounds exist for con-
tinuing a bogus controversy down to the
fifth- and sixth-rate quadrupeds. The
Bulletin has nothing to say against a man
risking money on the hazard of a race, even
though it may, in nine cases out of 10, have
doubts about his sanity. Nor has it anything
in common with the individual who would
have everybody miserable on race day because
he happens to have a sour temperament him-
self. But it has less regard for those who
tell Australians that the multiplicity of race-
courses up and down the country are centres
of “sport,” and therefore desirable localities
and that the frequency with which anyone
can take 3 to 1 or acquire a totalisator
ticket is the measure Q f local freedom from
a Puritanical interference with enjoyment of
life. These people are mere humbugs bar
racking for a system that is putrid—a g ro
tesque inversion of the only legitimate case
that can be made out for racing in anv
form. Sixty per cent, of these courses do
not supply sport, do horse-breeding harm
and are mainly sinks where money and
effort are wasted. They ought to be swept
away. In all likelihood the circumstances of
the days that are coming will do it. Mean-
time the surfeit of racing in the Common-
wealth, incomparably greater than is endured
by any other country on earth, is deplorable
from whatever angle it be looked at except
the point of view adopted by J. Carbuthebs
J. Wren, McShortodds and Co.
SHELL SHOCK AND THE PREVEN-
TION OF INSANITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On seeing The Bulletin’s Red Page re-
view of Prof. Elliot Smith’s book on
“Shell Shock,” one reader was moved to
inquire how the military had provided for
these sufferers in N. S. Wales, Smith's
native State, and made the astounding dis-
covery that the only attempt at treatment
is under the aegis of the Lunacy Department
as an adjunct to Callan Park! Prof. Smith
points out the dread these cases have of
becoming insane, so the military treats them
homceopathically—with a hair of the dog
that bit them!
The present generation is suffering untold
misery owing to the war; the next and the
third and fourth and, maybe, subsequent
generations will pay the penalty in an out-
crop of insanity and crime for our sin in
neglecting one of the most serious duties
imposed on us by civilisation and made the
more urgent by the war, i.e., the prevention
of insanity by early and efficient treatment
of nerve sufferers whether their trouble be
due to shell shock or not.
From a social point of view, insanity is
an illness that manifests itself in a disorder
of conduct —not disorderly conduct in the
police-court sense, but any conduct which is
disordered or abnormal.
Few persons realise the alarming rate at
which insanity has been increasing all over
the world, irrespective of the war; fewer
still know that a very large proportion of
this misery could be prevented by timely
recognition and scientific treatment under
favorable conditions. That it could be pre-
vented has been demonstrated in many large
American and Continental hospitals, both
general and special. Those of the medical
profession in N. S. Wales who realise the
immense importance of this subject are ham-
pered on the one hand by the very grudging
attention given it by the Medical School, and
on the other by the fact that existing lunacy
laws make extremely difficult, if not impos-
sible, any serious attempt at mental prophy-
laxis. There is no place where incipient in-
sanity can he properly investigated and
efficiently treated, so that the illness must he
allotced to run unchecked until it has reached
so acute a stage that the patient's conduct
warrants police interference. Returned
soldiers suffering from mental disturbance in
such cases may be committed straight to the
hospital at Callan Park without any legal
formality, but the civilian is arrested,
brought before a court (the policeman hav-
ing sworn to tell the truth, the whole truth,
etc.), charged with being ill—and locked up
to receive treatment! Hope for his recovery
is practically gone by the time he is fit to be
arrested, and the best that can be looked for
is a partial recovery, with a tendency to
relapse. The more usual ending is in hope-
less dementia.
If there existed here a Neuropathic Hos-
pital with an attached clinic of neurology
and psychiatry in conjunction with the
Medical School—such as have been estab-
lished in many other parts of the world —
where all cases of incipient insanity and of
nervous diseases not necessarily associated
with insanity might be studied and treated,
and where the relation between social condi-
tions and the incidence of insanity might be
scientifically investigated by a specially-
trained out-patient staff, students would be
found only too willing to avail themselves
of an opportunity to become familiar with
symptoms of nervous disorders likely to be
met with later in general practice. For it
is the general practitioner—not the special-
ist—who usually sees these cases in the
early, treatable stage. At present the student
may study the actually insane, never the
prevention of insanity. This absurd handi-
cap is forced upon him by law. It is also
subscribed to by indifference on the part of
the general public, who, of course, are the
chief sufferers.
In a democratically-governed country like
Australia, where every adult has a vote, it
appears strange that the mental health of
the electors should not be taken more seri-
ously, stranger that the community should
prefer to pay for years for the upkeep of an
unfortunate sufferer in a mental hospital,
rather than allow experts to prevent his
developing an illness made manifest—-as
pointed out before —in a disorder of conduct
which may involve loss of life or destruc-
tion of property.
Many persons become delirious through
the presence in the blood of poisons, organic
or inorganic, which, as yet, have not been
isolated and named and the nature of which
is not fully understood. These delirious per-
sons are called “insane,” and must undergo
a legal process before a physician may apply
treatment. Other persons become similarly
delirious through the presence in the blood
of other poisons which have been tracked to
their lair and labelled, as, for instance, the
typhoid bacillus, pneumococcus, etc.
delirium of the pneumonic or typhoi
patients makes them quite as troublesome as
the delirium of the “insane” patients: they
are sometimes maniacal, and, on occasion,
pursued by imaginary terrors, have com-
mitted suicide. Yet no legal process
necessary in order to obtain treatment t
them. They are ordered to hospital by
physician and detained there, willing or u
willing, until recovery takes place. R t


law were really based on logic, having had
one group of sufferers arrested and impris-
oned. it would insist that all other sufferers
should be taken to court and charged with
having, on such a date, contracted (say)
jaundice —or a broken leg.
To make it illegal to apply treatment to a
nervous person against his own wish, and
impossible for him to receive such treatment
at his own request, until he has actually
become a danger to himself or the commu-
nity, is as sane an act as forbidding treat-
ment to a tubercular patient until a cavity
had formed in his lung, and he had become a
source of infection and a complete recovery
an impossibility.
It were as reasonable to make a law for-
bidding the setting of a fractured limb, or
the admission of such a case to hospital,
unless the ends of the bone were protruding
and the fracture obvious to a policeman.
It were as reasonable to make a law pro-
hibiting the use of poisonous antiseptics in
surgical operations until the wound had
become septic. The surgeon would then
labor under something of the difficulty at
present imposed upon the alienist; for in all
nervous diseases, as in surgery, tuberculosis,
etc., the best results may be looked for only
in early treatment.
And the only way to grapple successfully
with the great problem Of crime—the pro-
blem with which the law and, incidentally,
clergy and social workers are now engaged
in a futile struggle—is to provide for the
early treatment, without legal interference,
of nervous and incipient mental diseases,
and opportunity for a fuller understanding
by the public of the causes, transmission
and prevention of insanity.
Q. E. D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great National Hashmaking
Industry.
Ryan, of Bananaland, who seems ready, with
or without provocation, to annex, acquit e,
commandeer or otherwise . appropriate any-
thing he happens to notice lying around,
broke out in a fresh place last week and
produced a Bill giving the Government
authority to seize ships and compel the staffs
of shipping cos. to work for the. state.
Alarmed at this astounding plunge into in-
dustrial conscription, the Federal Govern-
ment issued a War Regulation announcing
that no proclamation providing for the
acquisition of ships other than vessels trad-
ing between the ports of one State should
have any force unless sanctioned by \V •
Hughes. Whereupon Costs pricked up his
ears, and the rest of Australia had another
example of the great advantages derived
from having seven Governments ready to
save the situation and numerous Cabinets
prepared to do one thing and various others
yearning to do another. For the purposes
Ryan has in view (apart from the election-
eering aspect of the matter, which probably
has the greatest weight with him) the
seizure of the purely local ship would be
about as useful as commandeering Brisbane s
suburban poultry-runs. For that reason, no
doubt, and in spite of Hughes s proclama-
tion, Ryan despatched a steamer out of
Bananaland loaded with sugar and timber
in search of a return cargo of wheat. \V lien
the vessel reached Sydney and union labor
had unloaded her, several things happened.
First, the union declared that wheat was
“black” and refused to handle it. Then,
somebody having given somebody else the
wink, it decided that the proper color was
white, and wanted to work. But as the
wheat agents said they had volunteer labor
ready on the wharf, everything promptly
went up in the air; for loaded by this ffihor
Ryan’s wheat on arrival at Brisbane would
have been anathema and his steamer a blot
on the landscape. And, of course, great in-
dignation was expressed by the Wharf
Laborers’ Union, and Ryan found himselt
firing urgent telegrams about. This paper
does not know what reason people who re-
fused to bunker Australian transports had
for being so solicitous about wheat for
Ryan, nor does it know why Ryan should
imagine his goods are of more importance
than supplies for troop and hospital ships.
It does know, however, that all this monkey-
ing with ships and wire-pulling with strike
committees in order to score temporary poli-
tical points is about as snide a proceeding
as the public has witnessed for some time.
But the essence of the whole business is in
the further revelation that the multiplicity
of Governments and politicians has brought
about in the industrial arena of Australia a
condition almost as anarchical as prevails
in the region of public finance. In weari-
ness The Bulletin invites Hughes to try
to discover by means of a referendum or
something how much longer Australia feels
disposed to go on working with a machine
which turns out nothing but hash.
♦
Still More Land Laws.
The land laws of the Ma State are a weird
and wonderful thing beyond the understand-
ing of most men> Hence the prosperity of
land-agents. One would have thought that
finality must be reached in half a cen-
tury ; yet important changes are threatened
in the Amending Bill which is being piloted
through Parliament by Minister for Lands
Ashford. It is one of the fruits of the
general election, and by allowing for the con-
version of homestead farms, settlement
leases and so on, rings down the curtain on
the leasehold policy of the late Labor Gov-
ernment so far as it relates to agricultural
land. The concession has been fought for
strenuously by the cockies, who dearly love
the unearned increment that usually apper-
tains to a slice of good farming land. Giving
that in, freehold, with limitations as to
transfer to prevent the aggregation of large
estates, makes, nevertheless, for quicker and
sounder settlement. It is a solid security in
the bad years when the cocky has to hang
round the bank-manager’s door looking for a
loan to keep going, which the leasehold
isn’t. In theory, and putting aside any
question of unearned increment, given two
men with equal capital, the leasehold is a
better proposition than freehold, as more
money is available for working the place,
and there is no need for dependence upon
financial concerns as there is where the bulk
of the cash is locked up in soil. But in
practice the man with sufficient money will
go for the freehold every time, while the
leaseholds are taken up by men with insuffi-
cient resources who, with a bad season or two,
will fall into trouble and then yell because
they cannot borrow money on their acres. If
we could start off scratch again it would un-
doubtedly be a fine thing to lease all lands,
the State retaining ownership. But seeing
that the remnant of Crown land left is in-
ferior in some respect or other, it is hardly
worth while shedding many • tears over the
passing of the system, which never proved
the success it was expected to. It was the
leasehold plank that caused the first bump
in the stormy passage of the Labor Govern-
ments under McGowen and Holman, when
Dunn and Horne kicked over the traces
because Nielsen, then Minister for Lands,
proposed to carry out in reality the non-
freehold policy of the party. Things have so
changed that now a Government under the
alleged leadership of the wandering Holman
is placing a heavy foot on that very plank.
Still, if Ashford has his way the State will
at least get a fair deal, inasmuch as the con-
versions will be at existing values and not,
as in 1908, when the Liberal Government
desperately tried to gain the fading support
of the cockies, and threw away a mint of
money by giving right of conversion of
homestead selections, conditional leases,
etc., at the value of the freehold when
the leases were taken up, which was con-
siderably below the subsequent values. But
just as that didn’t save the Wade crowd,
so it probably won’t later on prevent the
cockies endeavoring to out the Nationalist
Government. Already they are kicking, and
want the proposed right of conversion in
this Bill to be on the basis of value when
the lease was taken up, instead of on present
values as fixed by reappraisement. They are
a greedy lot —which is probably why they so
often get less than they deserve.
National Trifling with a National Curse.
Elmslie’s statement in the Vic. Assembly
to the effect that more than 5000 Australian
troops have been infected with venereal dis-
ease in Melbourne is probably an under-
estimate. The bill for the Australian capi-
tals, including both civil and military,
may be estimated from the fact that nearly
350 cases were attended to during 24 hours
at the Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, and
that it is necessary to limit the number of
cases under treatment at one time at this
hospital to 500. Any Australian who wants
to gain an idea of what venereal disease
means to Australia should obtain a copy of
the Report on Venereal Diseases issued by
the Committee Concerning Causes of Death
and Invalidity in the Commonwealth, and
read it carefully. It is the work of level-
headed medical men dealing with subjects
on which they are wholly qualified to speak,
and although a politician officiated nominally
as chairman no politics got into the com-
mittee-room. They give us such interesting
statements as these :
The out-patient departments of our hospitals show
numbers of babies with withered, puckered faces and
scarred mouths, old before they have been young.
Fully 25 per cent, of the sick children in Mel-
bourne are tainted with syphilis, and about 10 per
cent, of the total number of children in Melbourne
are syphilised.
No one can deny that thousands of lives are lost
in the Commonwealth every year by syphilis, that
an immense amount of sickness and inefficiency is
caused by it, and that the misery entailed is terrible.
Dr. Halliday, of N.S.W. Institute for Diseases of
the Deaf, Dumb and Blind, says that SO per cent,
of the blindness in children is due to gonorrhoea.
Mr. Clubbe, F.R.C.S., gave evidence in Sydney
that every year there are about 500 children at the
Children’s ‘ Hospital, Sydney, suffering from
gonorrhoea.
Surely it is high time that men ceased to regard
gonorrhoea as a subject for joke Sterility, blind-
ness, pain and incapacity are the evil gifts which it
dispenses. •
The Inspector-General of Police in N. S. Wales
holds that prostitution is just as bad as it used to
be in Sydney, but carried on under a different
system.
At least half the spread of syphilis is due to
clandestine prostitution.... the danger lies where it
is not suspected.
It would be possible under such a scheme [i.e.,
invalidity assurance] to require persons in an infec-
tive condition who are engaged in such occupation
as the handling of foodstuffs to cease such occupa-
tions until certified to be non-infeetive.
This last will possess a distinct personal
interest for those who feed in restaurants
from the walls of which stare down the re-
assuring placards of a Pure Foods Act which
takes no practical account of the syphilitic,
the cook with acute gonorrhoea, or even of
the typhoid-carrier who may be mixing the
salad with his hands. The committee ex-
tracted £15,000 of Commonwealth money
for subsidising various State schemes, most
of them impracticable or slackly run, and
all of them dominated by a scarcely con-
cealed dislike of “Commonwealth interfer-
ence.” A better way would be for the Com-
monwealth to take over the whole work,
tackle it as a national problem of the loudest
Win-the-War pattern (which it certainly
is), and put the committee in charge of the
undertaking as a Commonwealth Health
Department with unlimited powers to extend
its activities in the national interests.
♦
Home Rule for Scotland,
When the demand of Home Rule for Ire-
land is urged it is usual to find some loud-
voiced person rising up and declaring that
Scotland is content under the union with
England, and that if there were any need
for self-government by the Celt in one part
of the British Isles there would be a demand
for it by the patriotic Scotchmen also. The
answer is that there is such a demand and
that the Highland Land League, which has
been in existence for more than a century,
is out to obtain just the sort of reform
that generations of Irishmen have broken
their hearts over. The trouble in both
countries is connected with the ownership
of the soil. English law regards the land
as a private possession—something that can
be bought and sold and passed from hand to
hand as readily as the produce that grows
upon it. Celtic law regarded the lands as
tribal, vested in the chief of the clan, who
held them in trust for the whole of his
people. In the conflict between these two
ideas there has been bitter suffering and ever-
smouldering rebellion against a foreign order
of things which was opposed to the primeval
law of a race; and the long tragedy has been
deepened and increased by the fact that Eng-
lishmen could never understand what the
trouble was about. In a Highland strath
there was a chief who was nominal owner
of a vast estate. On that wide stretch of
heather, rock and mountain hundreds of
families lived in a hardy poverty which, by
contrast with other possibilities, was com-
parative comfort. But the chief, who had
lived most of his life in England, got hard
up and decided to sell the estate. The
clansmen naturally protested; but English
law upheld the big man in his betrayal of
the race and its ancient law. Then the popu-
lation on the estate faded away. Those who
could find the money went to some new land
overseas; those who couldn’t helped to fill
the big towns or clung on in bitter penury
to some remote corner where the new owner
did not think it worth while to molest them.
The opening of the present war revealed
the fact that many romantic glens where old
traditions lingered to fire the hopes and pur-
pose of a nation had been sold to foreigners.
That is one of the special reasons why Home
Rule for Scotland is now taking the lime-
light. English law saw no evil in the dis-
possessing of the children of the soil to give
an alien a picturesque park; Scottish
patriotism looked upon the transaction with
anger and shame. And the big world-feeling
that is unbound by codes and creeds takes
the Scottish view all the time.
The Cash Value of Religious Hate.
The idea of exploiting sectarian prejudices
for gain is not exactly new. That there is
money in pseudo-religious attacks was proved
long ago in the case of the notorious Maria
Monk, w r ho worked upon the sympathies of
hysterical anti-R.C.’s in New York to con-
siderable profit until her whole scheme was
bowled out by an examination of her alleged
misfortunes, which proved that there was
not even a germ of truth in her extravagant
tales. Maria has had any number of imita-
tors since then; and the idea that a picture
film might draw sectarian cash as readily as
the individual adventurer was sure to pre-
sent itself to somebody. But the game should
not be allowed in Australia. Religious sys-
tems may mean much or little to the com-
munity ; but the private conscience of the
private citizen means a lot. To do injury to
that is to perpetuate the wrongs and shames
and hates and spites that disfigured earlier
years, and to destroy the growing harmony
of a new nation which possesses no tradi-
tion of religious war. There is no idler busi-
ness on this planet than that of trying to
upset the faiths of others. Even the black-
est or yellowest person is perfectly entitled
to do his best grovel before his own particu-
lar Joss without interference or mockery;
and sectarianism should not be officially
accepted as a legitimate investment for cash
any more than poisonous sausage or impure
milk.
♦ 7
After London had been bombed five times
within a week, the British Government
apparently decided that Fritz must be told
that two can play at the nasty game. “Raid
for raid” is said to be the policy agreed
upon in consequence. It will be deplorable
if so much as one aeroplane has to be with-
drawn from military service in order to
carry out such reprisals; nevertheless it is
plainly incumbent on the Government to
protect the women and children of England
in some way. If it should be necessary to
withdraw aeroplanes from direct military
use it will merely show once more how badly
the air-service has been neglected by the
British military heads. Even in the very
act of announcing the change of policy those
heads belittle the importance of the ’plane,
declaring that more people are killed in street
accidents in London than the German aero-
planes slaughter in the same period. The
comparative figures, as nobody knows better
than the Germans, are quite misleading,
because they do not take into account the
number of children and women who have
sustained shock —probably the most serious
feature of the raids. Incidentally, nothing
has yet been heard of better help from aero-
planes having been given to the Australian
and other troops in Palestine and there-
abouts. Until recently, at any rate, the
neglect of the military heads to give the
army in that field adequate assistance in the
air amounted to a grave scandal, and all the
more grave because the force of aeroplanes
was not sufficient even to protect field hospi-
tals against enemy raiders.
♦
That Council of Defence, of which Colonel
Foster is to be appointed secretary, has, it
is reported, “technically been in existence
since the Defence Act was passed, but there
is no record of its ever having met, except
in a purely formal capacity.” Recently it
was decided that returned soldiers should,
wherever possible, supersede others in mili-
tary appointments. So Foster lost the job
of Chief of Military Staff. But apparently
one or two people decided that this retired
English officer had to have a job, so in the
interests no doubt of economy, he is to be
secretary to a “Council” which has never
met, “except in a purely formal capacity,”
though it has been in existence for 12 years;
and £2OOO a year has been provided for its
maintenance. Seeing that a Commission is
now inquiring into the whole business organ-
isation of the Department, Foster’s
appointment is simply indefensible; and the
Returned Soldiers’ Association should get to
work on it promptly. It is a matter on
which the Minister for Repatriation might
also have a word or two to say. Repatria-
tion isn’t going to be made any easier or
less costly by giving Departmental jobs to
officers who have never served with the
forces.
«,
Dear Bulletin. —Ask any fo’c’s'le hand
what he thinks about these explosions and
fires on boats and he’ll say, “Why don’t they
wipe out the Scowegian squarehead
mob for a start?” There used to be a dose
of German firemen and sailors on this coast
before Kaiser Bill got nasty, but now the
mob are “Danes,” “Hollanders” and
“Swedes.” Take it from me these square-
heads don’t love England, and you can’t
trust ’em further than you can chuck ’em,
and that’s not across the stokehold. I’ve
had some rum experiences since this big
scrap started and here’s the latest. There
was a firing job going in our packet a couple
of weeks ago and a tall, military-looking
cove arrived to carry on. He looked about
as good a Hun colonel as I’ve ever sighted.
There’s not much grammar or pretty talk
about stokehold mobs, but this josser could
swing big yabber about any subject. He
made the mates’ and engineers’ talk seem
like schoolboy’s. Now, anybody that’s mixed
up with foreigners knows that if you get
’em rattled (and we took good care to keep
this gent’s rattling depot busy) their Eng-
lish goes to the bilges. This gentle stranger
was a shrewdy, but we got him, and he
gave the second his notice. We found out
later that he'd been something on the Cum-
berland. I don’t know where he lodges now,
but I’m wondering how many more of us
are on the way to the big reward. —Yours
in grime, sweat and ashes, Trimmer.
From a man in the business: —
The “National” party, otherwise the Phewsion,
is beginning to crumble —and the war not half won
yet! As was to be expected, Labor-Nationalists
have soon had brought home to them their square-
ness in the round hole of CooK-IRViNE-ism, and
alarums and excursions have been going on behind
the Censor’s screen. The amalgamation scheme of
the “National Union” has precipitated a crisis, and
there is every sign of the Labor-Nationalists break-
ing away—if they have not done so already. EvSn
now the machinery of a National Labor Party is
constructed ready for work, and last week the insur-
gents felt strong enough to come out into the open
with a proposal for a new lot that would embrace
the Labor-Nationalists, the many Labor men sick to
death of the domination of Labor by “pommies”
and Yankee boodlers, and a good leaven of Radical-
Liberals to whom Cook and Co. are anathema. A
moving spirit in the revolt, and one who will pro-
bably “organise” it, is a man who played a con-
siderable part in the foundation of the Labor move-
ment in W.A. and its subsequent management,
Gi,ance, nine years secretary of the Goldfields branch
of the Federated Miners’ Union; with him are a
number of older unionists, and Hughes is not unac-
quainted with what is toward. Billy knows he has
to provide himself with an escape by the time the
gun-roar begins to die down in Europe. There is
also a little group of Vic. State ex-Laborites now
politically horrieless to whom another Labor organi-
sation would be a boon. So the quietly-started
National Labor Party may prove more than a flash-
in-the-pan. The National Amalgamation scheme
which has thus brought Labor-Nationalist dissatis-
faction to a head is as crude a piece of engineering
as ever the late abortive general strike was. It was
inspired by the National Union, which is the money-
bags of the Win-the-War people, with a view to cur-
tailing expense by the reduction of overlapping among
the National organisations. Plainly in the opinion of
the A.W.N.L., the People’s Party and the People’s
Liberal Party, who carried the amalgamation into
effect, National is synonymous with Liberal-Free-
Trade-Conservative. Considering the Win-the-War
party got its chance to win the war by the grace
of the Labor turnover of votes and men, this show-
ing of the “unseen hand” (and purse-string) so
early shows either a great cocksureness or a dis-
torted idea of Labor’s sense of humor on the part
of Money-Bags. But Money-Bags always did think
money could do anything—except win the war.
“Canuck” : In the early days of the war
two brothers, both well-to-do Australian-
born Germans (there are such), narrowly
escaped internment through opening their
mouths too freely, after having their orchards
overhauled and their wireless plants dis-
mantled. Lately I was talking to a nephew
of theirs, a good Australian, and asked him
about them. “Oh, Uncle has got his
head screwed on right. He put £4OOO in
the last war loan ; but Uncle didn’t.”
I knew that the latter was making as much
as his brother, if not more, and that he had
visited Gerniany in 1913, and said so.
“Yes,” was the reply, “that’s just it. He
wouldn’t be a free man long if everybody
knew what he does with his money.” But
what Germans do with their money in Aus-
tralia is apparently no business of any-
body’s. Isn’t it about time that a tab was
put on the local Hun’s spendings? Somebody
paid for the bombing of the Cumberland
and the Kembla.
Oasis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who diggeth a well by the way,
Who planteth a palm,
Sendeth up from the desert of Day
A perpetual psalm.
For a king shall bend low by the well
To give praise ere he drink,
And a slave ’neath the palm-shade shall tell
His full heart on the brink.
There the pitiless sword of the day,
Of the blinding bright noon.
Shall be stayed ere it leapeth to slay,
Shall be changed for a boon.
Nor the terror that flieth by night
Nor the arrow by day
Shall stoop down with dark wings of affright
On the well by the way.
For Love with a rose in his hand
And a song in his mouth
lias delivered the soul of the land
From the duress of Drouth.
And never a sunset but brings
Slumber’s silken surcease,
Like a tremulous folding of wings
On the altars of Peace.
And never a night goeth east
To the gates of the day
But Mercy is pilgrim and priest
At the well by the way.
Yea. grander than Aves that climb
By the white peaks of Prayer
To a temple untarnished by time,
And the Deity there,
Goeth up from the desert of Day
The perpetual psalm
Of a song at the well by the way,
And a wind in the palm.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


shM
m
Venire 0
Cl<^and^ r
U OtJusfr&fiaL”
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B. ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals —ft la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
£3
Mmi
Si
h
vp
w®*
<Zf,e
“Australia"
Writer Garden
A Straight Talk to the Synod.
From our Senior Deacon: —
You hear straight talk, sometimes, where it is
least expected. To the startled Diocesan Synod
(Melb.), Captain Hugh Murray, late of the
A.A.M.C., blew off a full hopper of- hard facts the
other night on the subject of Drink and the Devil,
who, as every soldier knows, wears petticoats.
Murray, who recently resumed his medical practice
in Malvern, should know whereof he speaks, for he
had 12 months’ experience at a base hospital in Eng-
land, in addition to close observation of troops on
transports.
War Minister Pearce, who hasn’t been to the war,
declares for dry canteens; Murray, who has, de-
clares for wet, although he left Australia an out-
and-out total abstainer. The men, he said, should
be given good drink. If beer were put into the
Church huts for soldiers, the Church would reach
the drinkers. He gave a sample of what followed
the closing of the Capetown pubs when the troops
put in. The men returned from shore leave —first
those who could walk, then those who had to be
led, then those who had to be carried. Last were
the “all out” —poisoned and drugged rather than
drunk. One of them, recovering consciousness after
two days, produced a flask of dope for which he had
paid 10s. —all he had. It was this that had laid him
out.
As to V.D., Murray spoke with discretion—“for,”
said he, “there are many things that can be done,
but I cannot advocate them here, because some of
you would say that it would be making sin safe.”,
How well he knew his audience! More soldiers, he
asserted, had been temporarily or permanently
incapacitated by venereal than from any other cause.
He detailed what too often happens during the four
days’ disembarkation leave in England. The men
go to London. Most of the big hotels are occupied
as war offices (Austin Harrison has been hammer-
ing at this extravagance in the English Review
for months past). The irm, after spending the
night at a theatre, find themselves at 11 p.m. with-
out a bed. They have no trouble in getting one —
with companionship of a sort. The trouble develops
after they return to camp. It should be made
compulsory for the soldiers to stay at a recognised
clean hostel, unless they can show that they have
respectable friends to lodge with. Education can
do much, but when the boys have drink in them,
and find themselves in Leieester-square late at night,
anything may happen.
Apparently nearly everything does happen. Will
The Bulletin make yet one more appeal to Senator
Pearce as a man and a brother, and ask him to allow
the medical department a free hand with the only
effectual method —prophylactic treatment of the men
before they stroll Delilahwards?
♦ : — :
How about Forgetting Billjim and
Selling Some Cheese?
Australia was permitted to know the other
day that the war had been creeping closer
to the premises. Raiders suddenly appeared
in the South Pacific, and simultaneously
there was an outbreak of explosions and fires
on vessels loaded in Australian ports. That
the raiders can have a long run is highly
improbable; but the bomb-planter may yet
do a lot of damage. As discovery of this
person would be a direct method of helping
to Win the War, it would appear as if the
hour had struck for the Fusion to produce
its policy relating to surreptitious enemy
agents. Meanwhile if all has not been going
so well as might have been wished for after
bogging in for three years along the Western
Front, the latest happenings give no reason
for decorating Hamburg with glad or
making pilgrimages to the effigy of Yon
Hindenburg. East of Ypres the enemy
been given three successive blows, each
heavier than the last. Even allowing for
some exuberance of expression in the cabled
accounts of the proceedings, and remembering
that the yarns that are not told about the war
are generally more important than those that
are told, there is good reason for believing
that these operations have hurt the enemy
badly. Contemplation of the map suggests
that if they are repeated once or twice more
the position of Brother Fritz in western
Belgium will become as precarious as that
of a burglar when armed Hops begin to climb
through the side-windows. In these affrays
Australian bayonets have played a conspicu-
ous part, and once more the citizen who
remains behind to give three cheers has the
satisfaction of knowing that the chap who
went away is fighting for him bravely and
well —or dying just as splendidly. As
it is quite hopeless to expect anything
but a continuance of heavy fighting, and as
the local recruiting campaign has gone at
the knees, the problem of filling up the holes
begins to look harder. The most comfortable
thing might be to forget all about it. This
would have the great merit of lifting a load
of worry from a crowd of local politicians
and German editors and give Hughes time
to sell a hundred tons of cheese to Britain.
“Pink Tape” : Will the Royal Commissioner
sitting on N. S. Wales Public Service ask
a few questions as to the drawing of fees
for extra work by high officials? There is a
rule that no one receiving £4OO a yeai can
claim overtime, but that doesn’t prevent
£lOOO-a-year men getting fees for extra work
done in or out of office hours. On a recent
holiday two ordinary hands were engaged
from 7.30 a.m. until 8.30 p.m. on particu-
larly arduous and responsible work, quite
outside their own jobs. Having finished they
asked the Under-Secretary what about the
regulation overtime. The mandarin gasped:
“Do you recollect, sir, that the Empiah is at
war? Certainly not!” Soon after, one of
the squashed underlings was called on to
make out a voucher for 30s. which the Under-
secretary had earned by a few minutes’ work
on one of his many side-lines!
«
Critics talk lightly of a nation in arms, but
it is a lot easier said than paid for. Assum-
ing an unscotched Germany, at the end of 1950
Europe will be faced with a total of about
200,000,000 Huns. Fully exerted, Brother
Sausage will have then about 40,000,000
men available for war service, even after he
has rejected one-fifth of his available total
for sickness and physical incapacity. These
would require some 300,000 officers, 100,000
guns, 1,000,000 machine-guns and 50,000
motor-cars. A constant reserve of 50,000,000
shells and 5,000,000,000,000 rifle cartridges
would have to be maintained ready for
immediate use at the outset of a war.
As the eyes of this army, 4000 dirigibles a
vastly improved type by that time —and
some 200,000 aeroplanes would fill the air
of Hunland. The cost of this army on a
war footing would be something over
£20,000,000 a day. Amongst the food re-
quired daily would be 32,000 tons of bread,
and nearly an equal amount of tinned pro-
visions. In a year it would eat nearly
20.000,000 head of cattle. Even on a peace
footing of, say, 3,000,000 to form a skeleton
for the national army, the cost would be
about £100,000,000 a year for maintenance,
and armament would cost more. The effect
of military operations in that day will prob-
ably be magnified to a state which is even
yet unforeseen. Whole districts may be de-
populated and turned into desert in the
course of a single raid, and every living thing
destroyed by asphyxiation. Guns will prob-
ably range up to 60 or 80 miles, with aiming
correction by aeroplane, so that London will
be open to shellfire from Calais. Naturally
in this competition the rest of Europe will
be forced to arm and train at least double
the number. That, in brief, is what, at
the present moment, the failure to thoroughly
defeat Germany looks as though it will mean.
If it is thought that the figures are too
dreadful, a comparison of the numbers en-
gaged in the campaigns of the last 100 years
will show with what tremendous speed the
size of armies has developed. At Waterloo,
only just over 100 years ago, of British Wel-
lington commanded 15,181 infantry, 5843
cavalry and 2967 artillery—not one-twelfth
the number that Australia alone has con-
tributed to the present struggle.
-♦
Dear Bulletin. —What has Australia done
to her citizens that so many of them, when
travelling, should take such an obvious
delight in traducing their country? Though I
have been away from Australia for seven years
I have been kept sufficiently well informed
of her progress and development, socially
and politically, to be sure that the country
of my birth has not gone to the dogs and
that general conditions are no worse there
to-day than they are in other countries
affected by the war or radical legislative
changes. Yet to listen to some of the libels
uttered by Australians I meet in various
parts of the world, Australia is about the
worst governed, most heavily taxed and gen-
erally most rotten place in the universe.
There was a time when the Australian was
such a staunch champion of his country as
to earn for himself the reputation of being a
blowhard. To-day he is, so far as my experi-
ence of 75 per cent, of Australian travellers
goes, not only without sufficient loyalty to
defend his country from ignorant misrepre-
sentations, but disloyal enough to open a
bombardment on it himself. According to
some Australians I have recently met, Aus-
tralia has been abandoned to the Industrial
Shirkers of the World; law and order has
ceased to exist; taxation is the heaviest in
the world; the weather has got worse, the
price of steak is an outrage on civilisation.
Of course I know this is all nonsense, but
why is it uttered? Is the Australian to-day
endeavoring to talk down his reputation as a
patriot, or does he seriously believe his coun-
try is not worth defending and is better for
being kicked? If the first reason be the one,
then it is about time somebody taught the
Australian that a natural pride in one’s
country is nothing to be ashamed of. We don’t
hear the American or the Englishman attack-
ing his country before strangers, no matter
how he may criticise its Government to his
fellows. If the Australian traveller thinks
his country is the worst place in the world,
then I wish him Gon-speed on his travels
toward disillusionment. He may return a
wiser man. and finally become a good citizen.
—Yours, L. W. Matters.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion ‘,‘ “j™;,
Her Majesty’s You re in Love
Palace “The White Chrysanthemum,
Wirths’ Hippodrome “When London Sleeps
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s Theatre Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s
Royal • •
King’s • 4< Grsn dcid Rudd
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Me lux Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
■%-- i
To-night, at Sydney Criterion, Cyril
Maude, the Irishman without an Irish
accent, makes his farewell in “General John
Regan” and the Screen scene in “The School
for Scandal.” On Saturday Robert Greig
and Beatrice Holloway will present “Baoy
Mine.”
“You’re in Love” continues to get along
with plenty of song and unlimited dance at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Bo’s’n Percy
Pinklove (Field Fisher) still wanders round
the promenade deck of the High Hope, look-
ing like a sun-baked lunatic and telling pas-
sengers his scale of tips while he practises
Go Slow.
* :|< *
Barry Lupino, the irdefatigable gardener,
is still cultivating “The White Chrysanthe-
m in” in Sydney Palce garden, and Old
Japan is represented without the European
frock-coat and boxer hat it now disguises
itself with.
* * * *
If Clyde Cook, at Sydney Tivoli, would
speed up his humorous gag-dance turn a
couple of revolutions, it would hit the right
speed. It’s a trifle slow on the present gear.
Ruth Budd, who swings in mid-air like a
happy kid and tells (in song) how lonely she is
away up on the Roman rings, is still draw-
ing the crowd while the whirling Camille
Trio are amusing it. Most people, after a
first visit, want to see Miss Lilyan and
Martha Boggs dance again. Thurber and
Thurber get through their gay insanities
quietly, but Edna Foster shrills like a cricket
when she tells the tall drummer that he is
worth £lOO a week.
The Playhouse (Sydney) announces the
last nights of “The New Sin.” On Saturday
Sydney James’s Royal Strollers will reappear
for a brief season.
“Robbery Under Arms” will be with-
drawn from the Hippodrome on Saturday by
William Anderson, and another old friend,
“When London Sleeps,” will be played.
When the piece was first produced the
wickedness was confined, principally, to the
midnight son and daughter; now it’s the
midnight Hun and slaughter.
The Australian Famous Players erred in
judgment and good taste in choosing the
unadulterated melodrama, “The Monk and
the Woman,” for their first presentation.
The photography and the setting are good,
but_ most of the company are awkward in
their ruffs and
cloaks and gowns
and cowls, and fail
altogether to create
an old-time atmo-
sphere, or to con-
vey the spirit of
religious fervor in
the monks and reck-
less daring in the
gallants. Even the
inevitable Marlow
bedroom scene fails
to elicit a thrill.
Spite of much talk,
there is nothing to
offend in this film ;
but there is nothing
particularly to at-
tract, apart from
the title. The pic-
ture is not vital
The Sydney Criterion.
Cyril Maude as Sir
Peter Teazle.
enough to matter.
On view at the Strand and the Lyric.
From the Globe and Majestic screens
Mary Pickford flashes her old smile
in her study of “A Poor Little Rich
Girl.” Cabarets and dancing-girls and
marvellous lighting effects, a mad motor ride,
a collision with a train, and Olive Thomas to
lead the whirl —this is the Crystal Palace
menu. Should Love or Science prove the
winning card in the game of life is the ques-
tion at the Lyceum. Hoyt’s programme is
a welcome change. Cissie Loftus maps the
career of Diana through the miseries and
petty tyrannies of the living-in system at
Dobson’s, flutters through her butterfly
month at Torquay, and in the end finds her
happiness in the most unlikely spot in all
London. u
“L’Aiglon,” which little Tittell Brune had
a shot at years ago, arose from the theatrical
tomb at Melbourne Royal on Saturday
night, with Kathlene Macdonell leading as
the boy Duke of Reichstadt, and three dozen
players of varying merit manning the big cast.
“L’Aiglon” is an enormous job for any young
actress, and The Bulletin will have more
to say about it next week when Webster’s
incomparable Post Office has disgorged some
mail matter a much-too-trustful critic
dropped into its Melbourne maw. Of course
Kathlene doesn’t score 100 per cent.; about
GO would hit it. Nor does Waldron, as
Metternich, suggest the Austrian diploma-
tist who troubled Europe. Also, Redgrave
might make Flambeau less of a shriek.
Looking down the names of players, good
and bad, who have been gathered up from
everywhere for the occasion one notes with
gratitude the reliable J. B. Atholwood
(attache of French Embassy), Eardley
Turner (Count Seidlinsky), Emma Temple
(Archduchess Sophie of Austria), and Eily
Mal.von (Counters Napoleone Camerata).
Producer E. W. Morrison earns an hon-
orable mention.
* * *
To-night Mr. Manhattan will “beat it.”
as he would remark in his idiom, from Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, and on Saturday Cyril
Maude will open a three-weeks’ season at
the theatre. “General John Regan” and
“Caste” will follow “Grumpy.”
Gran’dad Rudd is still calling hoarsely for
poison at Melbourne King’s, and is being
offered a razor as an effective substitute.
The fact that the weapon is presented by a
cheeky grandson is evidence of the faint hold
of ancestor-worship on the bright young cubs
of the rising generation. It can be said
for Dad’s descendants, however, that they
only maintain their irreverence as a strict
family privilege. Let any outsider threaten
grandpa’s dignity, and the tribe is ready to
prove by bluestone and blucher that Rudd is
thicker than water, so to speak. This and
similar sentiments continue to be related six
times a week with strong and constant pres-
sure on the box-office. Melbourne is devel-
oping a warm affection for Steele Rudd’s
latest, and also has a friendly eye for W.
Rowell’s scenery. That young artist has
done well throughout, but has surpassed him-
self in the background of Act 2, which,
depicting a world smiling with milk and
money, vigorously invites townies to go on
the land.
* s'* * *
Melbourne Tivoli is still alleging that its
chiefest attraction is the revue, “The Prince
of Monte Carlo,” but there’s money to say
that the Follies’ turn is the pick of the
week's programme. Mack’s miniature panto,
“Mother Goose,” altereth not, and songan-
dnuce generally is at the old address.
t Hi ❖
Tatterley is the latest Hoyt spectre in Mel-
bourne. He is the hard and rugged miser
of Tom Gallon’s novel, and no doubt his
interpreter is correct in giving him battle-
mented browns and a mouth like a portcullis.
He is a very different character, of course,
when his heart melts, but he is more pic-
torially effective in his stone age. “The
Hidden Spring” is the current Yankee effu-
sion. It is the story of a lad who makes
his pile by rigid adherence to principles that
would be fatal to fortune in real life.
Melbourne Majestic this week is offering
select views of old friend William Desmond
as an expert safe-breaker in “Time Locks
and Diamonds.” The film is littered with
empty safes and vacant policemen, and is a
startling reminder of Melbourne in the busy
burgling season. “The False Friend.” also
in sight at the Majestic, features Robert
Warwick, who has to work hard to
maintain his integrity when a bad
man and a worse thirst turn his thoughts
agley. Incidentally, Bruce Bairnsfather is
still on service at the Majestic with the
pencil that brightened the dug-outs of
Flanders.
* $
A one-woman Melbourne show 7 :—
You feel old age creeping on you when you enter
Miss Svveatman’s show of pictures at Melbourne
Athenaeum. There is a profusion of grandmothers,
upholstered in wrinkles, and stiffened by starch and
black satin into comfortless immobility. There are
also one or two elderly gents, including a brisk, well-
dressed pianist who seems to have lost the soulful-
ness out of his face while looking up market prices.
Miss Sweatman has also yarded some juveniles into
her studio, and has given them a rather lurid certifi-
cate of health. The artist’s color is young and rest-
less, though in one or two places she gets a becoming
greyness into her work. The landscapes, wine
threaten to overwhelm the portraits, are unim
passioned records of Nature in her Sunday bes .
Even the gum-trees look as if they are walking o
church. A still life, composed of a skull, a cand e-
stick and other articles, is artistically worth mi es
of the sacred scenery.


6^
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
.a
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St„ Sydney-
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &, ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G - HOWARD POPE, General Manager
&
l
t
N
i A
Peaks’ Tropic-Cloth Suits
—an innovation for Summer days.
A three-piece suit that is as light as Indian garments—wash-
able, cool and something quite new in pattern. The cloth
is a wool and cotton mixture of a very neat, close black
Check on white —making a grey tone. The buttons are
detachable. The coat has 3 buttons, 2 patch pockets, seam in
back; 4 pockets in waistcoat; side, hip and fob pockets and
permanent turn-up to trousers.
Ready to Wear 50/-
We pay postage. Please state height, chest, waist and inside-
leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
Adelaide Majestic is again giving a trial
to the “sketch” or “revue,” or whatever one
likes to call the collection of turns that has
a plot of a kind and professes to tell a story.
J. P. O’Neil and Tom Haverley give the pro-
duction a thick Irish atmosphere. The
Anderson Co. at the Tivoli is serving things
up strong, putting on the Face—the one. old,
original Face —as successor to the Worst
Woman. Ida Gresham was the record-break-
“MR. MANHATTAN." AT HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
William Fullbrook, of the police, presents
his card to Odkin (C. H. Workman).
ing female. Sara Allgood has brought
”Peg-o’ ” back to the King’s for a short
return season, and the Royal is going along
contentedly with Fox films till “Mr. Man-
hattan” comes. West’s Pictures show the
first series of Hayseed adventures, filmed
locally by Roy Redgrave and Co. last sum-
mer; also they have a delightful dog story.
Animals always make the best screen actors.
Wondergraph has “Freckles,” which is voted
“just sweet,” and draws accordingly; the
Grand has come to the front with a debat-
able picture, “Ignorance” (crowded houses,
of course), and the “Concert of the Thou-
sand Voices” has been given by a host of
well-trained school-children.
“Bowsprit” : One direct result of the fatu-
ous strike of seamen and firemen is likely to
be the loss of some of their best footholds.
They can’t expect the British Government
to view with an unruffled brow the sight of
splendid ships like the Indarra, Canberra,
Cooma and others lying idle for weeks while
the nation is clamoring for tonnage. Rumors
of the requisitioning of the inter-State boats
have been on the wfing for some time, but J.
Bull stayed his hand because it was put to
him that Australia was making good and
full use of all the vessels she had left. The
strike knocked the bottom out of that claim.
There was also a suggestion that there might
be Australian sea-going men who would be
hardly dealt with if all the big inter-Staters
were taken. But the action of the Seamen’s
Union in refusing a crew to a hospital ship
waiting to sail for another batch of wounded
Billjims must have made John angry enough
to want to commandeer every available
vessel in Australian waters.
“The King v. Thirty-two Bales of Cork”
was the official description of a case that
came before the High Court the other day.
The corks were imported from Spain, and
the Royal George (in the person of one of
his representatives) strolled down to the
wharf and seized them. It is not known
whether there is a cork shortage in the royal
cellars, but his Majesty is certainly very
anxious to get those corks. He looked
round for somebody “suable and capable of
sueing,” but could not find anyone to fill
the bill, as an acknowledgment of owner-
ship would have led to a charge of trading
with the enemy. There was nothing for it
but to proceed against the corks themselves.
So the King solemnly sent a representative
to serve a writ on the cargo. The scrap of
paper was fixed to one of the bales, and
when the original writ was removed a copy
of it was left in its place, so that the corks
could not claim that they had not had a fair
deal. Although the defendant corks were
without a counsel to plead their cause, the
collective horsehair of the High Court was
unable to come to a decision, so the matter
was adjourned until more hair could be col-
lected. For this matter being con’stooshnal,
the concurrence of four judges is necessary
—though the point really is whether the
concurrence of so much as one judge is
necessary. Evidently Learned Brother Hig-
gins, before whom the matter came in the
first place, has an idea that it isn’t, and
that, with the Trading with the Enemy Act
in existence, no judicial action for condem-
nation is requisite.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Sceneshifter”: The strike microbe in the
air recalls some hold-ups in the theatrical
trade. “Pinafore” on its first production
in New York had Cellier at the piano and
Sullivan at the organ, in lieu of the regular
orchestra, the latter having struck for regular
“opera rates,” instead of “burlesque rates,”
which the management wanted to pay.
Prime Minister W. M. Hughes, when super-
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, in “Henry
V.,” tried to create a strike for more wages.
Rignold promptly fired him out and Hughes
has been more or less of a fizzle ever since.
Sceneshifters went on strike when Tree’s
company were playing in Berlin, and the
actors had to do the hard yakker themselves.
A pitiable scene occurred at the old London
Her Majesty’s in the ’eighties, during an
Italian opera season. Neither orchestra
nor principals would continue “Faust” after
the second act until they were paid, and the
manager informed the house that the money
would be returned and the show closed.
Immediately the curtain was rung up, and
the chorus, sceneshifters and singers came
on, begging the audience for money. Coin
rained upon the stage and the curtain
fell on one of the most disgraceful scenes
ever witnessed on the London stage. At
Miller’s Flat, Otago (M.L.), some years ago
Probasco and Finlay’s Circus put up their
show for one night at prices from 6s. to 4s.
The crowd refused to pay the rates, and
stood outside yelling “Reduce your prices.”
One man who bought a chair ticket was
hooted, presumably for being a blackleg.
Probasco (who introduced the talking horse
Mahomet with Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus)
tried to reason with the mob, but without
effect. Not till the tariff was reduced to
4s. —Is. did the strike end and the public
flock inside.
“M.P.A.” : Our Annette Kellerman is due
to follow up her success in “A Daughter of
the Gods” in an aquatic film-story, “Queen
of the Sea.” The filming will be another Fox
effort, and it is said that the Smithsonian
Institute, the U.S.A. Fisheries Commission
at Washington and the British Museum
authorities are assisting in one way or
another. The story is mainly about the
floor of the mighty deep, and the operations
are to occur at Bay Harbor, Maine, U.S.A.;
but apparently there is to be the usual
amount of “kid” about it all. In the show
business kidology is responsible for a big
proportion of the successes.
The Firm and H. D. Mclntosh are pull-
ing almost in the same boat these days.
Vera Pearce will take her fast-increasing
bulk and decreasing contour into a principal-
boy part in the next J.C.W. panto. Jack
Cannot will also plant his tubby figure into
a panto character at the same location.
Meantime some J.C.W. artists and proper-
ties, with a stage manager thrown in, have
made their way to Melbourne Tivoli.
“Jean S.”: Hugh J. Ward had hardly
arrived in America the other day before he
was encrusted with reporters, who wrenched
from him details of his war efforts in Aus-
tralia. He “had been personally responsible
for raising £1.000,000 for various enter-
prises in conjunction with war relief. Aus-
tralia Day, entirely promoted and managed
by him. netted £BOO.OOO. His Belgian Day
project yielded £140,000, and for hospitals
and various charitable objects he raised an
additional £60,000.” When those secrets
had been made known, the wretched victim
was searched and a huge document purport-
ing to be the Freedom of Sydney and signed
by the Lord Meagher was triumphantly pro-
duced. He suffered further investigation as
he went east, and his efforts to escape
publicity were tragic. He tried to sneak
into New York unobserved, but was recog-
nised and dragged before another inquisition,
and thereafter it appeared in the papers that
“had it not been for the fact that he was an
American citizen, the Governor of N. S.
Wales would have obtained knighthood for
Mr. Ward!” But they haven’t yet found
out how he declined the Prime Ministership
when it. was offered by John Wren.
“Vic”: George Majeroni appears in the
Picture Show of “The Eternal City,” taken
in Rome, and now being shown in Australia.
George and Mario, sons of Edward and Julia
Majeroni, were educated for commercial pur-
suits at Melbourne’s Scotch College, the
parents loathing their own profession; but
the boys followed the natural bent. Both were
with Wilson Barrett on his second visit to
this country. George Majeroni and Maud
Williamson acted in “George Barnwell” at
the Melbourne Royal. At the end of the
play they were shown hanging, and they took
the call before the curtain with the ropes
round their necks. Coppin, as manager, had
insisted on this thorough old-fashioned busi-
ness.
“S.T.S.”: The first and third acts of
Marie Tempest’s latest production, “A Pair
of Silk Stockings,” have a beautiful stage-
setting, a hall with staircase, and garden
showing through a door under the stairs. It
was the failure of this elaborate set to reach
Brisbane, and not, as “Norbell” suggests,
any slowness of study on the part of Miss
Tempest, that prevented the northern city
seeing the play.
Ballymoy, the fishing village of “General
John Regan,” is a disguise for Westport,
County Mayo, where the author, Canon
Ilannay (George Birmingham), had a cure.
"Westport resented being held up to laughter,
and the canon changed his address. The
town, on the wildest part of the Irish coast,
is the railway terminal of an annual sum-
mer pilgrimage to Croagh Patrick, a moun-
tain-top sacred to Erin’s patron saint, who
is reputed to have fasted there for 15 days.
At least one Ballymoyan is attached to the
A.I.F. —he is just now convalescing from
damages received from Fritz in France.
From the U.S.A.:—
Hale Hamilton, back from Australia, was lately
stropping his worn wit on “Get-Rich-Quick” at the
Montauk Theatre, Brooklyn. Nance O’Neil, who was
warmly praised for an Elektra-like performance in
Belasco’s “Wanderer,” is a momentous upheaval in
a new film of “Hedda Gabler.” Chicago has been
inspecting Muriel Starr, grass-skirted and somewhat
grotesque, in a new piece, “The Bird of Paradise.”
The town of Stamford (Conn.) had a hurried glimpse
of Henry Kolker in another Broadhurst effort, “Over
the ’Phone,” which will be in the rush for theatres
on Broadway next season. New York, which has 10
new playhouses leaping skyward, cannot accommo-
date the swarm of dramatists and managers, and
every year Broadway is hideous with the moans of
the “slain.” Tom McLarnie, fresh from farce-
comedy in Australia, has got into the Galsworthy
class, with a part in “The Fugitive.” Rupert
Darrell and Isabelle d’Armonde—she who put ginger
into the initial outbreaks of the Mclntosh Follies in
the Commonwealth—have been associated in a
musical accident called “The Masked Model” at
Pittsburg. Charlotte Ives, unappreciated in Aus-
tralia, has found silence golden in the movies. Mario
Majeroni has also been under the notice of the
camera. He specialises in noblemen with patent-
medicine names. Irene Franklin is warming her
toes at the footlights of “The Passing Show of 1917.”
Iloudini has found a new field for his escapology in
a series of submarine pictures. Incidentally novelist
Upton Sinclair has tried a curious drama entitled
“The Pot Boiler.” The hero is a budding play-
wright, and the scenes he writes in his bedroom are
visualised through a transparent back-drop. Among
current Chicago sensations is the eminence of the
alleged Australian dancer, Saharet, in the life of
one Fritz von Frantzuis. Fritz’s financial affairs
ended in chaos, and at an auction of his effects 87
photos of the divinity brought the Yankee equivalent
of Is. 7d.
Two old headliners on Australian theatri-
cal bills, Ethel Warwick and Tittell Brune,
are “sketching” in London music-halls.
Ethel’s vehicle is “The Rat”; Tittell’s is
“Bracelets.” and both are being received
with gurgles of delight.
< A new work of a promising young drama-
tist named Henrik Ibsen has been discovered.
It bears the title “Realities” and is a sort of
sequel to “Ghosts,” taking up the thread of
the story where it was dropped at the final
curtain. “Realities” is being published, and
is shortly to be staged in London, where
Ibsen is at the moment a serious rival of
Charley Chaplin.
“Ancient Prompter”: “Harrison 0..” in
his new role of apologist for Australian
theatrical firms (B. 27/9/T7), is even more
amusing than usual. He permits himself
to remark that “local plays with even a
gleam of merit can nearly always achieve
production on either the commercial or the
repertory stage.” Much virtue in “nearly,”
but what a ridiculous statement! The
Bert Bailey Co. might give an author a
hearing if he had a bush drama in his kit.
but what of the other enterprising impre
sarios? Plow many local plays have J. C.
Williamson Ltd., .T. and N. Tait and the
Fullers staged? Also in which city can aD
Australian author hope for a production by
a repertory co. nowadays?
London theatrical gossips are nominating
Marie Lohr as the next manageress of the
llaymarket, the most historic of the play-
houses after the Drury Lane. Marie made
her d6but as a baby in Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, and as a grown-up at Her Majesty’s,
London ; but it was at the she
scored her first striking success, in “My
Wife.”
“Theorbo”: I take this to be the most
remarkable phenomenon in Melbourne’s
musical history since Melba burst forth. At
a recent concert by pupils of the University
Conservatorium, eight original songs, written
and composed by Miss Phillips, a pupil, were
given. They excited surprise and enthusi-
asm, and unmistakably have a flavor of
genius. How very few women have shone
in musical composition! I recall only one
opera written by a woman.
“First Old Man”: Strange that no Eng-
lish actress has tackled L’Aiglon. In the
English version of Rostand’s drama the
young hero seems fated to be played by an
Amurrkan performer. First Maude Adams,
then Tittell Brune, now Kathlene Mac-
donell.
(Continued on page 26.)
One R. Coleman lately wrote from France
to the S. M. Herald :
It seems to me that the bolstering up of our
secondary industries by a high Protective tariff, and
rearing them, as you might say, in a hothouse, while
there are great vacant spaces on our continent wait-
ing to yield a rich harvest to the farmer, is putting
the cart before the horse. First let us get a big
population on the land ; then the secondary industries
will prosper.
Well, how much better off is Australia now
because it didn’t “bolster up,” for example,
the ship-building industry, which is, presum-
ably, one of the secondary industries that
Coleman and the Herald want to stand over
till the empty spaces are filled? And is the
fact that Australia’s wheat is rotting in the
stacks, because there is no shipping to carry
the produce to foreign markets and no large
industrial local population to consume morrf
than a fraction of it, likely to encourage
settlement on the land? It is about time to
overhaul some cobwebby phraseology. Why
should dumping wool into a foreign ship be
a “primary industry” and depositing the
same wool in a local mill be a “secondary
industry”?
There must be laughter in the Shades
over the arrival of Paul Rene Loubet,
humorist. This engaging youth—he was 28
when a narcotic injection wrote finis to his
rapid career —with nothing but unbounded
assurance and a charming manner as his
assets, blew into Australia a year or so ago
with a wife, a fake diploma of the Paris
M.D. degree, a French military “record”
book (owner unknown), a story of heroic
deeds performed at Mons, a Croix de
Guerre, a star of the Legion d’Honneur, a
relationship with ex-President Loubet and
the rank of captain in the French army.
On the strength of his pleasant manner and
his credentials he got a job as Government
medical-officer for Papua, and the entree
everywhere. After a few quick-changes in
jobs—and incidentally wives—he landed in
'Footscray (Vic.) as assistant to a leading
doctor, with whom he quickly made a reputa-
tion, especially in the matter of children’s
ailments. He was appointed assistant sur-
geon at the Children’s and Melbourne Hos-
pitals, he applied to be put on the strength
of the local Territorial regiment (presenting
his “record” all in order from cadet to cap-
tain), he made formal application for the
Melbourne M.D. degree (on the evidence of
his Paris “diploma”), and he married the
student-daughter of a fine old family. But
Nemesis was overhauling him : the ex-wives
were making trouble and closing in, and the
police and the Professorial Board were begin-
ning to ask questions about his medical
qualifications. He threw up his job again
and was about to disappear on to an up-
country station “for a cnange” when Nemesis
got home —her name was Detective Pigott—*
and Loubet went out by way of a hypo-
dermic injection on a seat in Alexandra
Gardens. Then it all came out—the forged
documents, dismissal from the French army,
the redundant “wives” and the colossal
bluff. But the most amazing thing about
the story is the man’s success as a doctor.
There are people, even after the disclosures,
ready to swear by his skill, and on the day
of his death a woman arrived in Footscray
from somewhere near the Sunset with a
child to be operated on by the clever Loubet.
It makes one wonder in what proportions of
faith, luck, bluff and knowledge successful
doctoring is made up.
DISILLUSIONED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His eyes are blue. His dimples two
Make many girls adore him.
He called himself an actor who
A future had before him.
He pranced in operatic plays,
Where fussy ragtimes bore us,
With mincing ways and calf-like gaze,
A member of the chorus.
He talked of “Art,” and said his part
Demanded close attention;
If critics here were really smart
They’d give him special mention.
To be eccentric was, in fact,
A feat supremely clever—
To pose and act like something cracked
Was his divine endeavor.
He worked his feet and fingers neat
With all the chorus graces,
Then, slave of custom, in the street
And other public places
He so behaved. The johns attacked
(His capers seemed to rile ’em) ;
Then did he act to houses packed
In Kew’s far-famed asylum.
They let him free in twelve months. He
Went to his old connections,
And any evening you may see
His curious genuflections.
But modest grown he says: “It’s bluff!
At Kew the King of Siam
Or any muff at this old stuff
Is better far than I am.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


urn
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
NEWS.
“Did you know that I am an actress now?”
“Why, no. But I heard you were going on
the stage.”
From a gunner in France: —
Came across a truly marvellous example of forti-
tude the other day. We noticed a movement in the
middle of No Man’s Land, and field-glasses showed
it to be a man very slowly wriggling along on his
back from shell-hole to shell-hole. A couple of
stretcher-bearers volunteered to go over the top and
bring him in, which they did. After giving him a
drink and a cigarette we learned that he had been
in a recent advance, and had been struck by a large
shell fragment which caused a wound 10 inches long
and four broad on the left thigh. He had been seven
days wriggling on his back from one dead body to
another getting water-bottles and cigarettes ! It was
impossible for him to know which was our side, as he
could not get off his back to look around him.
During the seven days there had been heavy rains
and very hot days, with a continual bombardment
from opposing positions, so you can guess what
kind of a time he had. He was very thin, of course,
and his wound was awful to look at, but he was quite
rational, and they think he will come through with
perhaps nothing worse than the amputation of the
leg. If ever a man deserved his life that Billjim
does.
“Swan”: The night was clear and still,
and the brigade was just ready to mount and
move out, when an eloquent trooper was heard
reviling his prad. “Hullo,” said the Briga-
dier, whose groom is an ex-bullock-driver,
“there’s another horse with the same names
as mine.”
* * * »
“J.F.H.” : Dramatist John Gqlsworthy has
been studying faces in England and publish-
ing the results. He found some good-looking
people in the country villages and rural dis-
trict's, but very few in London. He makes
an exception, however, in favor of the Aus-
tralian soldiers, a large proportion of whom
he declares to be “beautiful.” Billjim has
been blushing violently all over the Strand
and Trafalgar Square ever since. But it is
not Billjim’s beauty alone that attracted the
playwright’s attention. In Galsworthy’s
latest drama, “The Foundations,” the
haughty Cockney butler in the peer’s man-
sion says to the democratic plumber: “For
hindependence I never saw your hequal. You
might be a Haustralian.”
* * * *
“B.O.”: The plea of the church people
here in Melbourne who, while professing to
be opposed to lotteries, think that there
should be a little give and take in connec-
tion "with patriotic movements reminds me
of a story just sent home by an Australian
officer from German (?) New Guinea. The
officer was lately scandalised when a very
direct offer was made by a colored lady. A
mark (one bob sterling) was suggested as
the wages of sib. Billjoe declined the offer
with great severity and haflded out a few
moral precepts. But the lady held herself
to be quite undeserving of the severity. It
transpired that her motives were of the very
highest—she wanted the shilling to give to
the “missionary man !”
“Sparks”: When the little coaster Nerong
foundered between Sydney and Newcastle
recently the saving of 11 out of 14 on board
was due to a succession of miracles. The
steamer went down at 2 p.m. in sight of
Norah Head Lighthouse. Tumbling into a
boat all hands tossed' about for 12 hours
in the gale before a searching steamer
stumbled on them at 2 a.m., just when the
survivors were nearly at the last gasp.
Their case shows the need for extension of
wireless on the coast. Very few vessels ex-
cept first-class passenger boats are equipped,
nor are the lighthouses or signal-stations.
This gale blew down the 20 miles of tele-
graph posts between Norah Head and civili-
sation, so that it was almost three hours be-
fore the nearest help knew of the accident.
It’s up to the Lighthouse Department, which
has collected 2s. Bd. a ton for six years on
coastal shipping, to quit talking about a
wireless system, and get down to business.
The Nerong gale was the biggest blow off
Sydney Heads on record, though luckily
short-lived ; yet the little vessel cleared the
Heads two hours before it came up in bliss-
ful ignorance of the danger. Which shows
that our meteorological system is also
grotesquely behind the times.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: It happened on one of the
fearfully windy days of the Melbourne show-
time just gone. His coat pinched him, and
he wore those backblock trousers that bring
to town with them a strange but eloquent
suggestion of shrinking timidity. He
attracted attention by knocking angrily on
the Collins-street door of the Town Hall.
Nobody knocks at Town Hall doors. I don’t
know why, but they don’t, and people
stopped to look. Stringybark had no hat
on. He was getting more angry every
moment. He backed off to the kerb, and
looked up at the windows; then returned
to his knocking in an even more pitiless
frame of mind. No answer. Stringybark
kicked at the door. He kicked, viciously;
then, turning to the crowd he said, “It’s no
good them pretendin’ they’re not home. Me
hat’s on their roof, ’n’ dam’ well they know
it!”
* * * *
An Australian Billjim barrister who
lately told the members of a court-martial
in England that they would have to face
civil actions if they proceeded to do a thing
which he declared was illegal had evidently
heard of the great English Chief Justice
Wills. He lived a good while ago—over a
century and a half —but the law as he laid
it down is apparently still good, and the
classical report of the case that led him
to pronounce it might well be reprinted for
the benefit of courts-martial everywhere. A
rear-admiral was president of the court that
did the illegal thing to a naval lieutenant,
giving him, in fact, 15 years for something
that in any case could be punished with only
two years; and when, having been pardoned
and released, the lieutenant proceeded
against the rear-admiral civilly to recover
£lOOO damages, he not only got the full
amount but was gratuitously advised by
the Court that the other members of the
court-martial were similarly open to be shot
at. The astonished rear-admiral rushed to
the Admiralty and from the Lords there re-
ceived so much sympathy that he and his
brother-officers of the court-martial pro-
ceeded to say contemptuous things about the
civil authority as represented by the mere
civilian lawyer who had dared to thus under-
mine the discipline of the navy; whereupon
the mere civilian lawyer, being the Lord
Chief Justice Wills before-mentioned, issued
writs for the arrest of the rear-admiral and
the other members of the court-martial. At
this stage the rear-admiral and his brethren
took advice, and from what they were told
began to see themselves in gaol for a year or
two. So they wrote the civil court the most
abject apology that was ever committed to
paper; and the civilian judge, coldly trium-
phant, ordered it to be put upon record that
it might be a warning to military officers for
all time that they were not above or outside
the law.
“Stevedore” : On suspicion that there was
some hanky-panky going on in connection
with the loading of vessels a detective was
sent to a certain Australian port. He was
well and truly disguised as a lumper and
jobbed on the wharves for two weeks, mean-
while insinuating himself into the confidence
of the gangs. But his I.W.W. leanings
aroused no enthusiasm and he returned to
H.Q. with a blank. H.Q., however, was not
satisfied and a second sleuth was sent forth.
He went about his business in a more direct
way and soon learned that a red-hot anar-
chist had been busy on the spot. The evi-
dence got blacker and blacker and he was
able to track the I.W.W. disciple up to a
sudden disappearance. Full details were
wired to H.Q. and prompt steps were
taken to get on the trail. When I stopped
laughing a squad of bustling John Hops were
hotfooting it after the unsuspecting first
“demon” !
* * * *
“G.N.”: It happened during the recent re-
tirement of the Squareheads to their famous
Hindenberg line. A big Billjim was doing
his best to accelerate their pace, and during
a bayonet charge singled out one particularly
hefty sausage to have a row with. Fritz
didn’t like the look of things and lit out for
the horizon like a Donaldson, Bill in hot
pursuit and gaining at every stride. At last
Bill lunged with all his might and the har-
poon went home, likewise Fritz, while the
avenger earnestly remarked : “I’ll teach you
choppin’ down fruit-trees, you big !”
“3 O 3” : Everybody joins Holman in ad-
miring the valiant French nation. But in
crediting our splendid allies with the inven-
tion of wireless telegr phy, the submarine,
smokeless powder, quick-firing guns and
aeroplanes, our fluent friend is too generous.
The French did not invent one of them. A
pacifist people, the Americans, were the
first to use in war breech-loading and repeat-
ing rifles, mounted infantry, submarines and
ironclad men-o’-war, all employed in the
Civil War more than 50 years ago. Since
then Uncle Sam has given to the world the
machine-gun (the daddy of all quick-firers,
big and little) and the aeroplane. A British
Court only a few years back decided that
Hiram Maxim was the first to apply the
recoil to eject the empty case and reload—
in fact, that he was the father of the quick-
firer. He got the idea in the first instance
through having his shoulder bruised by a
rifle’s “kick.” Both .Maxim and Snider,
the latter the Philadelphia wine-merchant
who gave Great Britain her first breech-
loader, the converted Enfield, had to go to
England to get recognition. Both these
GOING TO BE A SOLDIER.
GIRL: “Father, you must not say any more hard things about Algy — he's going into the
Army.”
FATHER: “Good! Good! When?”
GIRL: “Oh, after the tear.”
thinkers were civilians. Smokeless powder,
also the work of non-combatants, was used
for sporting cartridges in England 20 years
before the French adopted it. An Austrian
named Schoenbein made a smokeless powder
of granulated guncotton many years before
that, and it was used, not very successfully,
by the Austrian artillery. Posterity will
decide who contrived and perfected the diri-
gible—nothing to be proud of, anyhow. The
cake will be divided, if the bakers should not
be on strike, between the man who made the
first balloon, if he can be found, and the
maker of a motor light enough and powerful
enough for the job. A bit of the burnt
outside of the cake might go to Zep-
pelin the Hun. Other men had been at
work on the problem of wireless communica-
tion, notably Clerk Maxwell and Herz; but
it remained to an Englishman ( pardonnez
moi, M. Holman) to demonstrate to the
world, for the first time, that messages could
be sent without the aid of wires. That man
was Sir Oliver Lodge. Uncle Sam, by the
bye, was the first to employ companies of
picked marksmen using telescopic sights.
That was in ’63. He will, if he lives up to
his record, give Fritz a few more things to
ponder over.
CO ENTER-ATTACK.
HE: “My dear, your back looks cold! Put
on your coat.”
SHE: “I was just thinking your head did,
too. Put on your hat.”
THE LADY LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On a point that the exact charge preferred against
them was not proved by the evidence, the High
Court quashed the convictions recorded against
Adela Constantine Mary Pankhurst (now Mrs.
Walsh), Jenny Baines and Alice Suter, in the Mel-
bourne Court of Petty Sessions on September 4....
The fatal point arose respecting the word “pretext.”
The Law, whereby poor Brown and Smith
In prison are interred,
Enables Jones to juggle with
The meaning of a word.
Discussing rights, the Law delights
In etymological flights
Which mostly seem absurd.
The Law is an uncertain jade,
To logic deaf and blind ;
The Law is just a fickle maid
Who knoweth not her mind—
A cruel sort to them who court;
Or now and then a jolly sport,
And wonderfully kind.
The Law’s a lady all the time.
She reasons not, but “feels.”
She lays, for common kinds of crime,
Mere menfolk by the heels;
Yet is cajoled by suitors bold
Who charm her with the chink of gold
In purchasing “appeals.”
The Law’s a little lady, sure 1
Her nature’s so complex;
She’s vile in vice, in virtue pure
(Except for human specks).
Her No or Yes is, more or less,
A chance to blokes who seek redress;
But when a sister’s in distress
She champions the Sex.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


FOR WOMEN WHO HATE ROUGE.
A TOILET HINT.
Ladies who suffer from pale, sallow, bad
complexions, yet who quite naturally object
to the “loud,” coarse and “made-up” appear-
ance almost ineAutably associated with the
use of rouge—which also, by the way, is
often distinctly harmful to the complexion—•
will be interested to learn that they can
easily regain the velvety, child-like freshness
of their complexions by using a simple, in-
expensive lotion composed of 2oz. of rose
water, 1 dram tincture of benzoin, and 2oz.
of flowers of oxzoin. Shake well before
applying with a soft cloth or sponge. When
dry brush lightly with a soft cloth or a piece
of chamois-leather. If you will do this
whenever you go out you will always have
a soft, natural refined color, of which your
friends cannot be suspicious and of which
you need not be ashamed. This lotion is
also exceptionally beneficial in relieving and
preventing chapped faces and hands, as well
as redness due to exposure to weather. —-
Advt.
LADIES
COURT
SHOES
42/- the pair
Your size sent on approval, on
receipt of remittance, which will
be refunded if the shoes are
returned as unsuitable for your
requirements.
When writing please state size
and give full address.
The illustration shows a neat, all-enamel Kid
Black Court Shoe, with Cuban heels, pump
soles, and black-and-white buckle.
Price 42/- pair.
Posted free to any address.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville BRISBANE
LIMITED
Toowoomba
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 0
will purchase a Cert
ficate for £1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6 5 War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and ail Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
COMMONWBALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA. October, 19h
“Copabella”: The honorary justice justi-
fies himself sometimes by his very lack of
law. Last week a file of strange barristers,
supported by a squad of solicitors, short-
hand writers and sundries, arrived with a
view of spending a day or two on a strike
case. Gent. One stacked his law volume,
his Bulletin and his hat in front of him
and started to “open”—widely. “You can
skip all that, Mr. ,” remarked his Wor-
ship, bland but brutal. “We heard your
instructing solicitor on that when he ap-
plied for a remand. Start from there.” The
rather-staggered barrister swallowed hard—
and got a five-minute adjournment to have
a chat with himself, his clients, instructors
and well-wishers. He then took a bunch of
red herrings from his brief-bag and began
drawing them across the evidence. “Never
mind Tweedledum v. Tweedledee, Mr. ,”
interrupted the Court. “We’re hearing this
case. We may mention at this stage, too,
Mr. , that we’re not going to hear it
all day!” (They were both business men
dragged from their desks.) Gent. One raised
his eyebrows in despair, wiped his forehead
WOMAN’S WILES.
THE YOUTH : “It doesn’t matter how late I
am getting home, my wife is always
waiting to hiss me.”
THE CYNIC : “Yes, that’s to see if you smell
of face 'powder.”
and put a witness in the box. Gents One
and Two quarted and tierced a bit over. what
was and wasn’t evidence, and the witness
played hop-scotch with them both and the
truth—particularly the truth. “You re fenc-
ing !” said the Bench, sharply, to the shrewdie
in the box. “Answer the Bench —yes or
no!” Shrewdie did so —and was gone. The
case was one of refusing obedience and the
accused were 16. One, a true-to-type Yankee
walking-delegate, with agitator w r ritten all
over him with a rough file, was obviously
the root of the trouble. As is usual, he was
the only one able to prove that he wasn t
given the order that was disobeyed. But
that didn’t worry Honorary Justice. It hit
the 15 to leg with about £BO worth of fine
among them, and then socked the Yank
with £l2—or eight weeks —for leading the
others astray. The law was rotten, but
the horse-sense was Al. Time 30 minutes.
Costs £6!
Part of the day’s work :
When in charge of a Lewis Machine-gun Section
his post was blown in and all his team put out of
action. He personally repaired the gun, carried it
forward singlehanded to a shell-hole, and from there
brought a flanking fire to bear upon the enemy,
thereby smashing the attack. Later on he was again
blown up b3 r a shell and his gun smashed. He
obtained another gun, and continued in action single-
handed after all his men had been killed.
They gave Corporal F. B. Rattle a D.C.M.
for this. In peaceful days he was a train
examiner in Victoria.
* * * *
Somehow or other the S. Australian legal
shark has never learned more than half his
trade. He knows the law all right, but he
knows neither how to make up a bill of costs
nor the trick of how to pile up a bill that
can’t be slaughtered by the Taxing Master.
Just now, therefore, Adelaide is worrying its
head over the “extraordinary” position of
R. 11. Lathlean. who has been appointed to
“assist” Noel Webb, a Commissioner turned
loose to smell about among the late Govern-
ment’s land transactions. In less unsophis-
ticated States, where there is a Commission
every day of the week, the appointment of
counsel to “assist” is in these later times a
matter of course. If it does nothing else it
allows the Commissioner to pose as a Judge
and not as an Inquisition. But, most im-
portant of all, it gives horsehair a fee; and
that is a matter of the utmost importance
in a State —like N. S. Wales—where horse-
hair is so abundant that there are seven
wisps of it in the Cabinet. In S. Australia
there isn’t even one wisp, so that a layman is
once more acting as Attorney-General.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: As The Bulletin reported last
week, Kerensky, the hope of a large faction
in Russia, has already had one kidney re-
moved for tubercular or supposedly-tubercu-
lar trouble. Not that the loss of a kidney
is at all serious: there are a good many
people far better with one than they were
with two—apparently healthy now and
robust. Really the most significant thing is
that Kerensky is wholly
in the care of profes-
sional doctors, in a coun-
try where much of the
bourgeoisie and aristoc-
racy and most of the
“lower orders” soothe
their pains with quack-
ery. The religious mys-
ticism of the people
makes them the easiest
victims of frauds who
declare that their reme-
dies are divine revela-
tions or have sacred ori-
gin. It is a solemn fact
that one of the richest men in
Russia is an alleged herbalist
called Badmaieff, who claims
such miraculous powers for his
powders that he was lately
accused by an irreverent rival
of distributing the Almighty in
small parcels. Badmaieff, who
is a Siberian Buriat by birth,
owns a huge establishment in a
Petrograd suburb, and gives ad-
vice to thousands by correspon-
dence. He says he embezzled
his recipes at great risk from
Thibetan monks. He dazzled
the late Czar, and was a sort of
Court physician before the
smash occurred. The revolution-
ary Government regards him
differently, and there is a possi-
bility of his being mislaid in
St. Peter and Paul one of these
days. Protopopoff, the Minister
who practically provoked the
Revolution, fled for refuge to
Badmiaieff’s house when his
plans misfired; and of course he was on
Rasputin’s visiting-list, and was also very
confidential with the weird Madame Viri-
buova, the ex-Czarina’s pal, who first intro-
duced Rasputin to Court life.
* * * »
From the Office Curate: —
Another of the periodical shindies between “High”
and “Low” Anglicans is raging in Melbourne; and
the “Lows” threaten to turn it into a heresy hunt
and put Archgaiters Clarke in the dock on his
trial for flirting with the Scarlet Woman. It all
started this way. A general “Mission of Repent-
ance and Hope” was held in the Melbourne Anglican
diocese last month; and some of the “High” mis-
sioned, who mostly came from N. S. Wales and
Queensland, rubbed in the “repentance” part of
their message by pointing out that the Anglican
Church provides for private confession. The “Lows”
strenuously deny this, and claim that when the
Anglican Prayer Book refers to confession and abso-
lution it means something else—or, anyway, if it
doesn’t it ought to. Parson Watsford, who super-
intends a collection-plate at North Carlton, was
specially upset by the missioned’ teaching, and above
all at certain books which they distributed to their
congregations. “Since I learned the extent of this
evil,” moaned the gentle shepherd to his flock, “I
have been walking on the brink of Hell. From three
o’clock each morning God has kept me awake so
that He might reveal to me His message.” Watsford
sent the offending books to Archgaiters Clarke, and
begged him “to banish and drive away such books
and practices.” But the Archgaiters replied: “The
TO PLEASE THE BOYS.
MAUDIE: “ Edith and I are getting up a con-
cert for the soldiers in camp — can't we
put you down for a song?''
MR. JONES : “Er —do you really think I sing
well enough?"
MAUDIE: “Oh, that doesn't matter. The poor
hoys simply go mad over anyone they
can count out.”
books to which you refer contain nothing which is
contrary to the doctrines of the Church of England.
Your own knowledge of church history and doctrines
appears to be very limited, and I advise you, for your
own peace of mind, to make a further study of these
questions.” This advice Watsford isn’t inclined to
take lying down; and he has appealed to Primate
Wright, of Sydney, who is the head of the “Low”
party, to summon a court to try the Melbourne
Archgaiters on a charge of “permitting doctrines
and practices detrimental to the interests of the
Church.” If found guilty, “H. L. Melbourne” will
be burnt at the stake in Paddy’s Market.
* * * *
ANTI-CLIMAX.
[For The Bulletin.]
“Darling, I kiss your feet.... .Darling mine, I was
very sad leaving you without a caress, without tak-
ing you in my arms. You say to me that I let you
make all the love, but I must control myself or
otherwise the fat would be in the fire.” —Extract jrom
a rather famous love-letter.
On Alpine heights of purest bliss
Your well-beloved feet I kiss.
Then, as Imagination tires,
I fall past eagles, clouds and spires
And talk of fat and kitchen fires!
N.s.w. NOSE DIVE.
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES.
HE: “Are you still with old Stick-in-the
mud ?”
SHE: “Very little. We're married now,
you know.”
“B J” • His company was shortly going
into action, and Lieut. Will-James—he had
been a farmer in Gippsland in the days when
the world was sane —was looking very woe-
begone. “Plang it all, old fellow', think ot
the example to your
men. and try to cheer
up! You know, it isn't
so bad once you’re in
it,” remarked a brother
officer. “Huh ! I wasn’t
thinking of that,'' re-
plied Billjim. “I’ve
‘ust had a letter from
home, an’ they’ve got
the blankv white-ants
in !”
“0.K.”: Every long
list of hotel “guests”
serves to remind one
that Australia has not
started to raise a crop
of native human names
racy of the soil. One
reads a number of de-
scriptive English patro-
nymics, such as Old-
nieadow', Roadknight
and Dryfield, and won-
ders whether there will
ever be Newshanty,
Oldswag or Drycreek
families in our social
circles. All the pic-
turesque names are im-
ported. We grow none
of our own.. There are
modern objections to
the fixing of original
Australian names on
foundling babies, and
we just merge them into
the crowd of Smiths
and Harrises. Seem-
ingly we have closed
down on the ancient
custom of creating sug-
gestive monikers for
the speculation of
future generations. Who was the original
Roadknight. for instance? A highwayman
or a toff in coat of mail who rode into a
peaceful hamlet and settled there, or a baby
found squalling on the side of the King's
highw r ay ?
* * * #
“The Crooked Maginnis”: “The har-rp
that wanst through Tara’s halls” bids fair
to sound high wassail once more in the coun-
cil chamber of Bungaree. Bungaree is the
great spud entrepot of the Ballarat district,
and, as Ted Dyson could tell you, an Irish
funeral from Bungaree to the Ballarat ceme-
tery in “th’ ould days” was something that
left a bruise on the welkin for a week.
Lately the allowance of the new shire presi-
dent, who bore the fine old Graeco-Roman
name of Michael Quinlan, was reduced from
£5O to £lO. This was too paltry for an
open-handed descendant of Diarmid iv the
Gowlden Collar, Nial iv the Nine Hostages
and other pals of Brian Boroimhe, and he
resigned. The Council met in a storm of
brogue, and, having restored the £5O, asked
Quinlan to allow himself to be re-elected.
It was contended amid hurroos that £lO to
stock the potheen cupboard was hot in
accordance with “the dignity, liberality an’
thraditions iv Bungaree.” Traditions? My
oath !
* * * *
“Billjim” on high explosives:—
Shrapnel? You get a good blighty from them if
they get you in the right place. But it’s these high
explosives that are the fair cows. Y’see, with an
ordinary shrapnel-shell you get a shilling’s worth of
marbles. But if you are near an h.e. when she
bursts, you get issued with an engineer’s kit—cold
chisels, ’ammer-’eads, files, saws, gimlets, rasps,
nuts, bolts; in fact, everything but the bag to carry
’em in.
A BASE DECEPTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a girl of thirty-four,
And I was twenty-three;
Great was the love for her I bore,
And she was fond of me.
This last with certainty I know,
Because the lady told me so.
Our love was frank and void of fear ;
She mentioned at the start
That she was wed, but murmured, “Dear,
You only have my heart.”
“Let him,” I answered, “do his worst;
God made us soul-mates from the first 1”
Convention cannot intervene
When hearts with passion beat,
And nothing could have come between
Us, save her base deceit,
Which straight released me from her thrall—
I found she was not wed at all!
’ICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


THE END OF THE JAG.


THE BIRD THAT IS COMING HOME TO ROOST.
London, Monday.-Amsterdam advices state that German newspapers show fear of air reprisals. Prominence is given to official announcements regarding
warnings for taking shelter.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to S.B. Zanetic Works, Leicester.
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
A Letter of Interest to all Pastoralists and Farmers throughout Australia.
Mr.T. I. Campbell, Gen. Sec. Farmers & Settlers’ Association, N.S.W., gives this testimony to Clements Tonic
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
Farmers & Settlers’ Association of N.S.AV
7 O’Connell Street, Sydney, 27/7/’l6.
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and experience, I do not hesitate to give you my
opinion of it, simply putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to be a very fine nerve and blood tonic. I know that it has benefited me greatly. At various
periods my duties are exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and' I have always found
your medicine of the greatest value to me, having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling
others to benefit by my personal experience. “I am, Sirs, yours sincerely, .
• “T. L CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any
man better or more widely known than the
secretary of this far-reaching Associa-
tion, whose members scattered far and
wide amongst the farming and pastoral
community number thousands. Mr.
Campbell’s testimony will be read with
interest, because of its sincerity and its
lucid explanation of the value of Clements
Tonic and its beneficial effect upon his
health. There is no better medicine for
the man on the land. It is a mistake for
you to be without it. Keep it at home.
GET CLEMENTS TONIC TO-DAY AND GET WELL. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Clements Tonic Ctrl., Rozelle, N.S.W. .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRING
EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES
SO PREMATURE.
FIRST ARTIST: “Congratulate me — I’ve sold
a picture for two hundred!”
SECOND ARTIST: “Two hundred! Good
heavens, they must think you’re dead,
old man.”
October birthdays : John Grice, Alelb.),
67, on 6th; Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.
Bench), 56, on 7th; R. C. Sticht (Mount
Lyell), 61, and Rose Scott, Sydney, 70, on
Bth; Bertram Stevens (editor Lone Hand),
45, on 9th; Judge Rolin, K.C., Sydney, 54,
aud Frederic Chappie (S. Aus.), 72, on
12th; Walter Gill, S. Aus. Conservator of
Forests, 66, on 13th; Langdon Bonython
(proprietor of Adelaide Advertiser), 69,
and N. G. Bell (Engineer-in-Chief Com-
monwealth Railways), 57, on 15th; James
Fairfax (S. AI. Herald), 83, on 17th; geolo-
gist W. FI. Twelvetrees (Tas.), 69, on 26th;
Elliott Lewis, the Speck’s Treasurer, 59, on
27th; poet J. B. O’Hara, 53, on 29th; A. J.
Thynne, M.L.C. (Q.), 70, on 30th ; and T. A.
Dibbs, Sydney’s veteran banker and good
citizen, 85, on 31st.
Ex-sergeant Lister, the new AI.H.R. for
Corio, has given a voluntary testimonial to
Federal mem-
bers. He al-
leges that they
“are often to be
se e n drinking
tea and coffee
in preference to
other drinks,”
and that he
“has never been
associated with
a more temper-
ate body of
men.” Lister
seems to be
somewhat sur-
prised that Aus-
tralia’s respon-
sible legislators
should be as
civilised in their
habits as the
men with whom
he had previ-
ously been asso-
ciated in the
A.I.F.
MON SIGNOR
GILLERAN,
V.G., Tasmania.
Adela Pankhurst AValsh was a high-school
teacher near Manchester before she lit out
for this country. On arrival here she
assisted the massive Celia John to run the
Women’s Political Ass. and The Woman
Footer, but later threw in her lot with the
AUc. Socialist party at the Exhibition-street
hall, was appointed a paid organiser, and
just recently started the Socialist children’s
paper Dawn. The youngest of the three
Pankhurst girls—29 and a bit —she orates
a lot better than she did when she arrived
four years ago. Her new husband was at
one time secretary of Newcastle Seamen s
Union.
R. E. Lewis, “father” of the lower branch
of the legal profession in A r ic., has gone no
to the High Court, aged 85. He was ad-
mitted a solicitor in 1859; his first partner-
ship was with Alessrs. Brodribb and Crisp ;
later on it was Crisp and Lewis; then Crisp,
Lewis and Hedderwick, and to-day R. E.
Lewis and Sons. He did not confine himself
to chasing Costs ; lie was senior partner of
the firm of Lewis and AVliitty., manufac-
turers of household and laundry necessaries.
The Lewis and Whitty firm commenced in
a very modest way; F. A. Lewis and John
Whitty were in the ’seventies blacking man-
ufacturers in a little back street in Fitzroy.
Just on 70 years ago a youngster arrived
in Alaoriland who, though he did not know
it, was going to be a person of some im-
portance thereabouts and live a long time.
This was John D. Ormond. He died last
week at 85. Away back in ’49 the youthful
Ormond was secretary to that E. J. Eyre, who
after being lieut.-governor of New Alunster,
as the South Island then was called, went
to Jamaica and caused nearly as much
trouble as the Kaiser. Then Ormond settled
in Ilawkes Bay, became superintendent of
the province, and for 30 years sat in the
House of Reps., for a consideraofe part of
the time as a Alinister. AVhen the Atkinson
Government fell in ’9l Ormond was one of
the last batch of life members appointed to
the Leg. Council. Incidentally he was an
exceptionally wealthy man, with extensive
pastoral properties acquired in the early
days at Mahia, Hastings and Wallingford.
As slim and erect as a youth almost to the
last, the grim old wool king never let his
interest in public affairs wane, and, Tory
though he was, it must be admitted that in
some ways he was one of the most able men
Alaoriland has known. If Ormond put his
recollections of bygone times and journeys
on paper before the end he will have done
something of permanent value for Alaoriland,
for no man had a more ample store of copy
in him or a more just appreciation of his-
torical values. He seldom if ever left the
Windy Isles, and probably spent his happiest
days alone.
Achbishop Carr and a brother of bis died
almost at the same time, one in Melbourne,
the other in Ireland—at Feamore, Lyre-
court. This brother was Patrick J-, and he
had reached 73.
Sergeant W. L. (better known as
Jones, who has just entered Westralia’s Par-
liament to say a word or two for Fremantle,
used to be in the English Civil Service.
Coming out this way he first “went bush,
and then was agent for the Clerks’ Union in
the Arbitration Court when the organisation
obtained the almost-famous 12s. 6d. a day
award. When Australia sent its expedi-
tionary force to collect German New Guinea
he was one of the party; hence the “ser-
geant.” His hobbies are Omar Khayyam
and amateur theatricals.
Private Fred Flowers, who died in France
the other day, was the eldest son of Fred
Flowers, President of N.S.W. Leg. Council.
Young Flowers, who was 28, left in October,
1914, with the Ist Field Ambulance, and
took a haDd in the Gallipoli tragedy. Since
then lie had been in France. Before the
war he was a well-known amateur
runner, and held the Ala State’s half-mile
and mile championships. In his spare time
he was a “sidesman” and secretary of a
men’s club at St. Saviour’s (“High ’ Angli-
can) Church in Redfern, where dad has
been a sidesman for many years. Politics
and church-going run together in Redfern;
ex-Premier McGowen has superintended the
Sunday-school for 30 years at the other
Anglican (“Low”) Church in that suburb,
where Canon Boyce presides.
Within a month two reputed centenarians
have died in Australia. Airs. Elizabeth
Britten, of Bega (N.S.W.), was said to be
102. She was a native of the State, born
at Campbelltown, so it was claimed, in the
year after Blaxland, A Vent worth and Law-
son first crossed the Blue Alountains. She
was the great-great-grandmother of Super-
intendent Childs, finger-print expert. The
other to go over the hill was James Snow-
ball, of Perth, for whom 101 years and
eight months was claimed. He came from
Scotland in 1853.
Two of Alelbourne’s old brigade joined the
big muster last week. Amos Renoff, born
in Scotland, landed in Victoria when it was
the Port Phillip District. In 1840 —well into
his twenties then —he went to Westernport,
where he discovered oysters. A fisherman
all his active life, he was a sport also, and
last year walked from his home at Park-
ville to see the Cup run at Flemington. The
other old boy was Robert Robinson Cowl,
aged 89, past president of the Pioneers’
Association. As a lad he stood on Launces-
ton wharf and waved goodbye to Batman,
departing to found a settlement across the
Straits.
One of Melbourne’s best-known Premiers,
now deceased, narro./ly escaped having his
career nipped in the bud for cattle-duffing.
He was a station-hand on the Sutton Grange
estate, owned by the de Graves family, and
was suspected of gathering a few stray
beasts for the good
of his own bank
account. One day
a pair of police
arrived at the Sut-
ton Grange home-
stead with the
future Premier’s
name on a bit of
blue paper. The
boss obligingly told
them that the
young duffer had
gone down to Mel-
bourne for a spell,
though at the mo-
ment he was up in
the rafters. When
he did go a few
hours later he
never came back.
MAJOR A. E.
HAMILTON, the
Adelaide business
and racing man
who has taken
charge of the
State’s Military
Pay Office.
“T. 0.1.” : Sunday, October 7, was the cen-
tenary of the opening of the first Methodist
Chapel in the Southern Hemisphere. It
was built by John Lees, a former soldier of
the Rum Corps, who was given a grant of
land at Castlereagh on his retirement from
the corps. The tabernacle was opened on
October 7, 1817, by the Rev. Samuel Leigh,
the first Methodist minister to visit these
parts. The grave of John Lees in the local
cemetery is sadly neglected, or was a few
months ago.
“Simon” gives an R.C. priest a send off •
When Father Dowling, parish priest of Botanv
(Sydney), died the other day, there passed out as
brilliant a little Irishman as ever sailed from the
Cove o’ Cork. His mind was too big to be dis-
turbed by the mean little prejudices that often
infect the modern pulpit, and it was good to see
hard-shell Orangemen wave him a full-arm salute
At the Robert Emmett celebrations in 1903 he was
JIM MATHEWS, of Melbourne
Ports, who was undisputed champion inter-
jector of the Reps, until Lynch lately
challenged him.
the orator, and in sight of the ’9B memorial at
Waverley Cemetery awoke again the speech from
the dock. He was the priest at Teddy Larkin's
wedding - ; and when the soldier-politician went
under at Gallipoli, he it was who preached the
memorial sermon. Taking his text from the Apoca-
lypse he likened tlm ancient warrior Judas Macca-
bees with the dead soldier in such language that
never again will the corridors of St. Mary’s ring
with a greater fighting speech. He preached always
the unbounded possibilities of Australia, and his
favorite saying was: “He that is false to his country
is false to his God.”
Lieut. T. liewson, an Ararat (Vic.) boy,
is reported missing, and the recording officer
of his squadron holds out no hope, for in a
fierce fight he fell with his machine in flames
for 10,000 ft. Eight days before he was killed
this youngster was “archied,” five pieces of
shrapnel going through his machine. Owing
to loss of petrol, he had to leave the forma-
tion. His observer failed to warn him of
the approach of a Hun scout, and paid for
the oversight with his life, 15 more holes
being made in the machine, which only just
managed to reach the aerodrome. Yet Hew-
—who was a State-school teacher before
the Great Trouble —was flying again within
the week. He has a brother in the same ser-
vice in France.
Nine days before his 32nd birthday, Major
D. T. Rogers, a Westralian banker, born in
Bendigo, was killed in France, leaving his
wife, Sister Tessa Rogers, of the Army
Nursing Service, to cable the news home.
Rogers left for the Front as a lieutenant.
Promoted in Gallipoli, he went to France
after the evacuation, accompanied by his
wife, who worked in hospitals behind the
firing-line. Then lie got his majority and
his D. 5.0., and was in the New Year honor
list.
About an old inhabitant: —
William Toft Pullen, who died lately at AA’ool-
goolga (N.S.W.), was born in Sydney in 1834. His
father arrived from England about 1800 and later
worked as a mechanic at the old Victoria Theatre,
where young William got his first small job. After-
wards he was apprenticed to John Hill, who ran a
cabinet-makery in Pitt-street; and in May, 1851,
when gold was found near Bathurst, he was in the
first rush. Thereafter he delved in many fields
and was at Lousia Creek (now Hargreaves) when the
big Dr. Kerr nugget was found. A while after
that he took the first battery made in Sydney on a
dray to Hill End and crushed a lot of good stuff
from Beyers and Iloltermann’s jeweller’s shop.
Rocke, who takes a seat for South Fre-
mantle in W.A, Assembly, is a prison
warder. He was the surprise-packet of the
elections. Incidentally he is a strict T.T.
and a reputed wowser. He may live it down.
OUR TRENCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve christened her The Cecil. There’s a brass-
plate and a dome,
And a knocker and a doormat all complete.
If yer callin’, second Tuesdays is our reg’lar day at
home —-
So delighted for to have a teet-er-teet!
There is mud along the corridofs enough to bog a
cow;
In the air there hangs a musty kind of whoof ;
There’s a frog-pond in the parlor, and the kitchen
is a slough.
She has neither doors nor winders, nor a roof.
AVhen they post our bald somnambulist as missin’
from his flat
AVe take soundin’s for the blighter with a prop.
By the day the board is gratis; by the week it’s
half iv that;
For the season there’s a correspondin’ drop.
Openin’ off the spacious ’allway is me natty little
suite,
A commodious and accessible abode.
By joodicious disposition and excludin’ of me feet,
There is sleepin’ room fer Oliver, the toad.
Though the ventilation’s gusty, and in gobs the
ceilin’ falls,
And with oral respiration disagrees,
Though there comes a certain quantity of seepage
from the walls,
There are scores I knows in diggin's worse than
these.
On me right is Cobber Hoban. There’s a spring
above his head,
And his mattress is a special kind of clay.
He’s a most pertiekler bloke about the fashion of his
bed,
And he makes it with a shovel every day.
Man is dust. If so, the Cobber has bin puddled up
a treat;
But on sanitation, strike me, he’s a torf,
For he lights a fire on Sundays, bakes his surface in
the heat —-
Then he takes a Weedin’ maul, and cracks it orf!
AVe bin hangin’ out so long in this gorforsaken ’ole
AVe’ve forgot there’s sheets, ’n’ baths, ’n’ tidy
skins.
In the dark ’n’ deadly carm last night they took us
on patrol—
Seven little fellers, thinkin’ of their sins.
It was ours like blinded snails to prowl the soggy,
slimy night,
AA'ith a feeler prickin’ out at every pore
For the death that goes in darkness or that jabs yeh
with a light,
And the other little fortunes what is war.
That’s the stuff to get your liver, that’s the acid on
a man,
’N’ it tries him bone ’n’ marrer, through ’n’
through.
You have got the thought to comfort you that life
is but a span,
If the gun of dear old Fritz discovers you.
AA r e got back again at daybreak. Cobber ducked to
doss, and said,
From the soft, embracin’ mud: “No more I’ll roam.
Oh, thank Heaven, blokes,” he murmurs, “for the
comfort of a bed!
Gorstruth, but ain’t it good to have a home!”
VICTORIA.
D.


£
ytff
j2 a >33
•■■■■■■■•»
T/faaiiaiiiMMfiaaaaiMiaat'
naipaim iiliaaiaaaiaaaaai'
!■■■• ■■iiiaiiiaa •■■■■■■■••*
** T* v v
r
H II i r-i“^rs^sl
•» >7.
#
jr
I
! If*
s/
r;
hI
Sk.
wx r;
i is ■ .
a
J*rf
i\ \X
'
n Jf
i »>3££s
aylfSll
n
#1
1
"VV *
/ ./i
sss&
mT
-f
iHffflH
1 -“-'
yi-w
mm
■m
■ V
MB.
H®
053*
4l
■
if
1 P
m
m
rr
mint wlk.utm
i
tii h ihtfvm
m
®|S' i&jl Sill** Ji%rv!WT6
Kj
: ' r mMMU£i£kwim
mMImmM
llipa
m
I
■>4
mm
m
u
.'r.'rr'
fi I|l‘ ;
( j!|l rf Pi,* t .
M i
mm
M
ft
m
iis
! ;■•)
5 l \
i wife
itti
tf IMH
;.■« ■
ml
i :
%
l\ p
2:; it l|
r‘. ‘1 1 !
It'S 1
w
THE QUALITY OF DISTINCTION.
A
X "Austral” Sac Suit made to measure makes no claim to special distinction merely because it is made to measure.
There is, however, a decided difference in the character of styling and standard of workmanship to distinguish an "Austral” Sac
Suit from much that men are offered in made-to-measure clothes.
Suit from mucn mat men are uuwcu m mau, ■_
The pleasino- styles and satisfactory fittings result from the skill of our staff of expert cutters, each of whom may be credited with
established deputation born of long experience and personal good judgment.
« rr a 1 111 rn _‘l •
an
of
established reputation born ot long experience ana peisunai gouu juu^m.
And back of all stands the specialisation of "Austral” Tailoring workroom methods. Every garment being made is the subject
individual and painstaking care at the hands of men who are masters of their craft.
“Austral” Sac Suits to Measure, 75/-, 85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 1261-, 147/-, 157/6
. , 1 —n» I-* r»ol,»ntnnnt fnrnic cptif tn fIUV fl'ftfl OH P6QU6St.
Patterns and self-measurement forms sent to any address free on request.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
COWING BR° 5 L T . D
riONEEB DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRABIAN GOODS.
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET; 3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE;
New Branch Shop at 304-306 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
aiUiiiiHmiauiiiiiiHiiaaißiiiMiMuaßKii
{IRISH
lilii
i


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKEI.L, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars. E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brockman’s
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street. **
ding.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antiiponiai Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Or^s
Calamine Ores (High Ciradel
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
J3HAS
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO TH V SECRETARY.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Special Steel Castings
s cha'lEK required to complete
Wniirc qq.' MACHINE for the BROKEN HILL PTY. STEEL
WORKS. These Castings- are, we believe thp T ißr>i?cTi , vn
MOST INTRICATE MADE IN ACSTrIIiA TO DAIR ■ h
heaviest weighs OVER 7 TONS, another weighs ■? toy? ' /
15 FEET LONG. lt; i "eigns 3 JOAS, and is
If £ou are interested
particulars.
Steel Castings, write ns for
further
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,'
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia : —-
Loss. Deficit.
Dec.. 1912 .. £14,696 £14,606.
June, 1913 .. 32,030 46,636
Profit.
Dec., 1913 .. 1,547 45,089
June, 1914 .. 5,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 . . 13,429 23,567
Reserves.
June. 1915 .. 25,789 2,222
Dec.. 1915 .. 50,949 53,171
June, 1916 .. 93,898 147,069
Dec.. 1916 .. 153.072 300.141
June, 1917 .. 226,151 526,292
It recalls the story of old Jay Gould, to
whom a young man was sent with a letter
of introduction and the request that Gould
should do something for him. Gould said
he was most anxious to oblige the friend
who had written. He told the young man
this as, with an arm through his, they
walked up and down Wall-street. Then
Gould said good-bye and he hoped his young
friend would soon be rich. And when the
young man asked, as delicately as he could,
whether Gould wasn’t going to do something
for him, Gould replied, as delicately as he
could, that the young man who wanted a
better start than to be seen arm in arm with
Jay Gould in Wall-street was too dull to
succeed anywhere. But this bank had better
luck even than to be seen in Wall-street arm
in arm with the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. For the Commonwealth has told it
that whenever it wants £10,000,000 it can
call on her to back its bill ; further, the Com-
monwealth Government gave all its busi-
ness, and that meant nearly 24 millions of
deposits as soon as it opened its doors. Also,
it meant the transfer of the Post Office sav-
ings banks, and they can be employed to
great advantage in feeding the ordinary
business, just as Industrial insurance feeds
the Ordinary branch.
When Denison Miller, general-manager’s
confidential man in the Bank of N. S. Wales,
was appointed Governor of the Common-
wealth Bank, he looked scarcely the size
for the job. But from the start he clearly
realised one thing: that he needn’t do am-
pottering about —that he was in a position
to do the very biggest banking things. Then
the war arrived; and there were very big
things to do. Ministers who had all their
lives thought in tens (ton shillings mostly)
were suddenly plunged into tens of millions.
This all meant business, direct and indirect,
for the Commonwealth Bank : and its figures
have mounted in this extraordinary fashion:
Liabilities.
June, 1914. June, 1916. June, 1917.
Deposits, etc.
(ordinary) . . £5,114,160 £32,107,152 £37,430,079
Deposits(savings) 4,645,268 9,477,896 12,442,847
Assets.
Coin and money
at short call/. 5,431,962 12,129,303 19,763,726
Commonwealth
notes . . 41.025 15,303,830 10.398,979
Public securities 2.818.981 8,255,882 11,802,880
Advances . . 1,392,084 5,721.357 8,145,600
Premises . . 38,379 321,744 288,033
Of the £19,763,726 described as money on
call £12,780.000 is held in London, appar-
ently the proceeds of loans or sales made
through the Government, and available for
distribution on Government or private
account there. A great part of the money
on both sides is of this character. You can
better judge of that by noting that, whereas
deposits in three years have increased by
over 40 millions, advances have increased
by under seven millions. So, gradually, as
normal conditions return, many of the mil-
lions will fade off the balance-sheet. Mean-
time, however, the bank is making luscious
profits; and as it doesn’t have to distribute
the money, it is providing itself with a very
fine capital, which will still further help it
to command ordinary banking business. Last
half-year the accounts showed a profit of
£226,151; and there is very little doubt that
more could have been shown had Denison
Miller felt that way. Note for only one
thing that the premises account was reduced
by £33,000 during the term.
The position of the bank in relation to
other banks will have to be seriously consid-
ered presently. So far, though of course pri-
vate bankers have felt hurt at fine exchange
business being fed into the Commonwealth
Bank, there has been no serious competition.
But with a million of free capital, as it soon
will have, a large and remunerative business
that hasn’t to be chased and the backing of
the Commonwealth, it is bound to be an un-
comfortable competitor, sooner or later, if it
continues to go in for ordinary banking busi-
ness. Already there is a tendency to-fight
shy of bank shares, and that indicates a
vague feeling of—well, hardly distrust, as
yet; but whatever it is it isn’t a good thing.
This country can’t afford to have the small-
est doubt cast upon the future of its banks.
For that reason, the functions of the Com-
monwealth Bank ought to be settled as soon
as possible after the war.
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office.— First it was the State Acci-
dent Insurance Office, established under the
Workers’ Compensation Act, which came
into operation on July 1. 1916. A few months
later the Insurance Act of 1916 was passed,
and on February 1 of this year the State
Accident Office was absorbed by the State
Insurance Office. The voluminous and very
lucid report now issued covers the period to
June 30, 1917.
Workers’ Compensation Department.
Workers’ compensation business is trans-
acted under four systems in Australasia.
(1) In Maoriland the insurance is not obli-
gatory, but there is a State office. (2) In
Victoria insurance is obligatory, and there
is a State office, but it is in competition
with private cos. (3) In N. S. Wales in-
surance is not obligatory, and the liability,
which the law imposes upon the employer,
can be covered only by a private co., there
being no State office. (4) In Queensland
insurance is obligatory, and the policy must
be taken out with the State office. At least
it must so long, apparently, as the private
cos. are not “approved.” The Full Court
decided that there was no obligation on the
Governor-in-Council to approve of any co.
The Privy Council decided that the Full
Court was right. No private offices have been
approved, and present public policy strongly
supports the State monopoly.
The Queensland Act specifies the benefits
but not the rates of premium. The maxi-
mum benefits in the event of a fatal accident
to an employee leaving dependants is £6OO,
the minimum £300; ditto without dependants
£5O. Disablement allowance runs up to 40s.
per week, with a maximum of £750. The
employee must lose three days’ work as a
result of the accident before becoming enti-
tled to benefits. This is more liberal than
the corresponding provision in the Acts in
N. S. Wales, Victoria and Maoriland, where
the excluded period is seven days. In other
respects, the benefits don’t differ very much.
The. Queensland provision is nearly always
a little more liberal. In the other States
and M.L. the maximum benefit in the event
of a fatal accident is £5OO, and in M.L. and
Vic. the maximum benefit in cases of dis-
ablement is also £5OO. Maoriland fixes the
maximum payment at 50s. per week, in N. S.
Wales it is the same as in Queensland
(405.), in Victoria it is 30s. Benefits
peculiar to the Queensland Act are: (1)
Compensation is provided for accidents
occurring on the way to or from employment
and at the place of employment, and is not
confined to accidents “arising from and in
the course of the employment,” nor are
claims voided by serious and wilful miscon-
duct of the injured workman; (2) the
worker has the right to a lump sum for per-
manent injuries instead of weekly payments.
Household workers are included, and under,
an amendment of the principal Act certain
industrial diseases, including miners’
phthisis, are brought in. But as past em-
ployment will have produced most of the
earlier claims under this provision, the State
has undertaken to subsidise the office to the
extent of £lO.OOO a year for the first three
years and £5OOO a year for the next three
years after that. The settlement of compensa-
tion in cases where the office and the injured
person cannot agree is referred to an In-
dustrial Referee; points of law may be sent
for decision to the Supreme Court, with the
daring stipulation that the matter is not to
be argued before the Judges either by the
parties personally or by counsel. So far,
neither Referee nor Judges have been
appealed to. The claims appear to have
been adjusted equitably rather than on the
strict letter of the law. The Commissioner
(John Goodwyn, formerly manager in N. S.
Wales of the Ocean Co., the English office
which specialises in accident insurance) ex-
plains his practice
During the year some 3000 claims have been
settled without reference to Brisbane by Clerks of
Petty Sessions.... The settlement of a great number
of the fatal claims has been arranged through the
Public Curator, who has acted for the dependants in
no less than 55 cases. In the event of a serious
difficulty arising with an injured worker I make a
practice of getting the secretary of his union to
look through the papers and discuss the question
with either myself or the chief claims officer, and
the results, so far, have been quite satisfactory.
The income for the year was £192,477.
Claims paid totalled £90.892 ; estimated cost
of settling outstanding claims and claims not
notified, £25.199; working exes.. £21,419;
available surplus, £54,967. This is disposed
of as follows :
Writing oil all preliminary exes. . . £6,980
Writing off 20 p.c. of furniture, etc... 36.)
10 p.c. bonus on Workers’ Compensation
policies .. .. •• •• 17,00 <
50 p.c. bonus on household polices .. L<l6
Reserves .. .. •• •• 28,400
Total .. £54,967
It will be noted that, whereas on the ordi-
nary policies a bonus of 10 p.c. is allotted,
household policies carry a 50 p.c. bonus. Ao
satisfactory data regarding the latter class
of business being available, it was decided
to issue a special series of household policies;
and the net result of a much more satisfac-
tory experience than was anticipated is that
the employer gets two years’ insurance for
the premium he paid in this section last year.
The rates charged for ordinary risks “were
in all cases the published net rates of the
Accident Underwriters’ Assoc, of Queens-
land under the Workers’ Compensation Act
of 1905. By the granting of a bonus of 10
p.c.,” the Commissioner adds, “the rates for
insurance under the new Act have been sub-
stantiallly reduced below the rates charged
by insurance cos. for insurance of the much
less benefits of the previous Act.” Further,
as the Minister in charge has declared that
the Government policy is to treat “the whole
of the profits in all departments as the pro-
perty of policy-holders,” it seems very
likely, on present data, that in the inevitable
readjustment of rates various concessions
will be possible. It is surprising how widely
the rates differ in the three States and the
Dominion. Here are the three highest and
three lowest: —
Q. N.S.W. A'ic. M.L.
Clothing factories .. 12/6 3/6 8/- 6/-
Creameries .. .. 15/- 7/- 10/- 10/-
Printers .. .. 15/- 10/- 8/- 10/-
Stevedores . . . . 80/- 80/- 80/- 100/-
Quarries .. .. 80/- 80/- 80/- 100/-
Timber-getters 60/- 100/- 72/- 75/- 100/-
Iu making that comparison, however, the
Queensland bonus mustn’t be forgotten ; also
the variations in the benefits previously
mentioned. The readjustment of rates
should not, however, be rushed. The Ocean
Co.’s experience of workmen’s compensation
shows how misleading the earlier data may
be.
Fire Insurance Department.
There are no special features about this
department. Practically it has only just got
into operation. Income was £BlB7. claims
£744. exes. £3251. The balance, £4192. is
available for an unearned premium reserve.
Exes, are thus far 39.8 p.c. of premiums. No
doubt a good deal of business will come to
the office through its accident-insuraneb
organisation; and the tendency will always
be to charge up common exes, to that affluent
State monopoly. Which in course of time is
bound to make things awkward for the com-
peting private cos.
* * * *
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
Aug., Income. Claims, deeds, goings. Fund.
1905. . £13,956 £5467 £7.081 £ 12,548 £7.196
1906.. 14,738 5871 7,060 12,931 9,003
1907.. 15,919 6291 7,401 13,692 11,230
1908.. 17,796 7041 8.094 15,135 13,891
1909.. 18,644 7418 8.375 15,793 16.742
1910.. 19,586 8291 8.443 16,734 19,594
1911.. 21,165 8737 8,997 17,734 23.025
1912.. 22,389 8144 9,633 17,777 27.637
1913.. 24,070 8996 10,202 19,198 32,509
1914.. 25,252 9049 11.544 20,593 37,168
1915.. 25,577 9178 9.690 18,868 43,877
1916.. 27,236 8840 10,825 19,665 51,448
1917.. 29,290 9785 12,859 22,644 58,094
The usual triennial investigation was made
during the year, and a surplus of £4883
being disclosed £3061 was used to pay for
additions to policies and £lOOO was distri-
buted among shareholders, in addition to the
usual £650 = 64 p.c. The exes, (including divi-
dends) for the year have been thus swollen,
while the corresponding swelling of the
claims will only be visible as time goes on
and the policies now benefited mature. The
outgoings, apart from claims, are still heavy.
Of total income exes, (including dividends)
have absorbed the following proportions:—
1908.. £45 9 8 p.c. I 1913.. £42 7 8 pc
1909.. 44 18 4 ~ ! 1914.. *45 14 4 ,
1910.. 43 2 2 „ 1915.. 37 17 9 ,
1911.. 42 10 2 „ 1916.. 39 14 11
1912.. 43 0 6 „ I 1917.. *43 18 0 ”
♦Expenses include £lOOO bonus paid to share-
holders.
For the past year, exclusive of the bonus to
shareholders, the rate was £4O 9/5. 9d. p.c.
But in this class of business a high rate is
unavoidable. The co. goes out a,?ter the little
side-lines of insurance (it used to call itself
the People’s Prudential Benefit, Society) ; and
about one-third of its total claim-pa vments
are made to doctors and chemists “for
attention and medicine to members and their
families. But it is a horribly expensive
way of organising such assistance; and
nobody ought to make 164 p.c. in any vear
for financing it.
Capita l is £lO,OOO and assurance fund is
£58,094. This has been certified as ad-
equate by E. M, Moors, a trustworthy man.
The capital is in N. S. Wales Government
securities; the assurance fund is in mort-
gages (£54,509) and loans on policies and
other securities (£4588). Having no silly
scruples about disclosing their own merits
the directors say: “As evidence of the care
devoted by the directors to the investment of
the funds, it may be mentioned that at the
date of closing the books no interest pay-
ment was overdue by any person to whom
an advance had been granted.” The interest
yield is £4 13s. p.c. and invested as the funds
are it ought to be more, and the directors
expect that it will be. Still, in view of war
claims and war taxation, “it would seem
rather more than possible that bonuses will
have to undergo some reduction.”
The S. Aus. Farmers’ Co-operative
Union, Ltd. (Adelaide) :
June, Loss. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1908.. CO, 092 Nil £6,084
Profit. Reserves.
1909.. 20,364 6 p.c. =£1,889 £18,475 12,391
Loss. Deficit.
1910.. 18,649 Nil 6,258
Profit. Reserves.
1911.. 15,649 6 p.c. = 2,302 13,347 7,089
191*? 22 187 10 ~ „ 4,186 18,001 25,090
1913.. 2.942 7 „„ 3,541 24,491
Loss.
1914.. 9,482 Nil 15,009
Profit.
1915.. 8,444 5 p.c. = 3,021 5,423 20,432
1916.. 7,666 8 „ „ 5,178 2,488 22,920
1917.. 34,392 8 ~ „ 6,000 ) 13392 41 3P?
Bonus on trade. £lO,OOO (
Thix co-operative co. has had a most suc-
cessful year. South Aus. has never seen
better crops than last season’s; and of the
total yield of 40.000.000 bushels the
Farmers’ Union handled nearly one-third,
and earned its money very easily. Hut that
didn’t matter —being co-operative, whatever
it earns it passes back to the farmers. The
co. also handles produce, wool and skins, and
supplies machinery, super, cornsacks and
other farm requirements, and, according to
the directors, all branches are showing good
profits. A couple of years ago a stock depart-
ment was opened, and during the past 12
months rapid progress is said to have been
made there, too. As a sideline the co. runs a
land and estate agency; and. in addition,
there is an insurance department, which,
the directors say, “does not vary very
much, but is gradually increasing, and is
one of the connecting links in the chain
of' co-operation.” But apparently no at-
tempt is made to provide cost-price insur-
ance, as the co. merely acts as agent for a
concern which in the strict sense is not
even Australian. There is no reason why
the organisation of the co. should not be
utilised to establish a purely co-operative
insurance office under expert management.
There is every reason why it should.
The co. was established 29 years ago, but
is only now coming into its own. The
chief trouble was that it was attempting
to finance its wheat deals and its sidelines
on inadequate capital. Go back five years :
1912. 1916. 1917.
Capital and reserves .. £71,133 £92,818 £125,613
Liabilities. . .. .. 299,719 222,325 308,512
Stock . . . . 225,752 54,454 56,681
Advances, book debts & cash 110,578 193,504 294,059
Property and plant .. 35,564 70,243 87,036
Note the effect the Government control of
wheat has had on the financing. Formerly
the co. bought wheat and then had to look
for purchasers abroad. What profit, if any.
it made depended on its fortune in the
foreign-market gamble. Under the Govern-
ment acquisition scheme the co. is merely an
agent for the Government on a commission
basis. In the five years £36,444. of new
capital has been got in. and liabilities (in-
cluding £lO.OOO set aside for payment of
bonus this year) have increased by £879)!.
In the same time £65.882 has been added to
the assets. Hence, provided ample depreciation
of plant, etc., has been allowed and the
£2807 added to bad debts reserve is suffi-
cient for that purpose, then the co. is nearly
£lB.OOO better off than it was at June. 1912.
notwithstanding that there have been two
bad seasons meanwhile.
The Bukit Kubu Rubber Estates, Ltd.
(office in Melbourne, estate in Malay Penin-
sula) :
Charged to Develop- De-
June, Los?. Dividends, ment Account. licit.
1916-. £2272 £365
1911.. £266 3785 631
Profit.
1912.. 236 3332 395
Reserves.
1913.. 821 3738 426
1914.. 695 2984 1,121
Premiums on new shares, £2lO .. 1,331
1915.. 1145 1996 2,476
1916.. 7775 10 p.c. = £3OOO 1388 7,251
1917.. 8945 10 „ „ 3000 1017 13,196
You can’t escape it. Says the manager:—
Our f.o.b. cost of production, freight paid, rubber
delivered in Singapore, was Is. 0.89 d. per lb., an
increase over last year (10.66 d.) and over my estimate
(9.07(1.). The causes were (1) a general increase
m coolies’ wages, the result of scarcity of coolies and
the increased cost of living; (2) a war tax of 5 p.c.
on exported rubber—we paid £7OO additional
In the labor force the Chinese have become more and
more troublesome and independent. There is cer-
tainly a shortage of Chinese tappers in this country.


When instructing your Solicitor
to draw
YOUR WILL
direct him to n .me
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company (Ltd.)
AS YOUR EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the assets
and obtain a degree of Security for Proper
Administration far beyond the power of the
private “amateur'’ trustee.
An interesting booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CHAMBERS,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A ‘'WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
„ / Od. (minimum
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6 ( 15/., 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
Cana, la .. 2,4 1/2 J
U.S.A 2,...,2/8 l/2l»V4{J?;«tZl"
Week-end service with the United Kingdom,
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
1 1 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. :
Have you installed a G.E. Voltage Regulator on
your system? If not, by doing so you can reduce
your operating expenses, because a single regulator
will control satisfactorily all the generators and
exciters in the station when operating in parallel,
thus not only decreasing your staff and reducing
your wage bill, but also increasing vour output
whilst lessening vour expenditure. Write us for
particulars. Australian General Electric Company,
Sydney and Melbourne.— Advt.
It is human nature to want something for nothing
and then to kick about the quality of it. But the
man who selects “Adamax” Asphaltum Roofing
because of its economical features need have no
fear of dissatisfaction with its quality. “Adamax”
Asphaltum Roofing is positively the best that monev
can buy a high-class, fire, rain, rot, rust and acid-
pi oof roofing that is practically indestructible.
Adamax” actually makes a big reduction in roofing
expenses. Its cost is one-third less than that of
galvanised iron, and freight charges are proportion-
ately reduced. Extensive usage by the X.S.W.
Government on important public buildings further
upholds its superiority, but it has many other
features to commend it. Write to-night for the
“Adamax” Booklet, free on request to William
Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth and Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the logical pipe for water
systems, has greater carrying capacity, is easier to
handle and to lay, is lighter and saves cost in
freight, costs from 25 per cent, to CO per cent, less
than metal pipes, and is the cleanest pipe for convey-
ing water, which preserves instead of corroding wood
pipe, making it last indefinitely. Send for illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Limited (head office), Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove River (near Fig Tree Bridge),' Longueville
Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscrav. Vic.: and
Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so. write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
Mining and- assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co.. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * *■ »
Gyratory Rock Crusher, from Australian stock.
The world-renowned “McCully” No. 4 Manganese
fitted. Capacity 20 to 48 tons hourly. Apply,
sole representatives: Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
Head Office, The Quay, Sydney; or The Australian
Machinery Co. Ltd., 130 Charlotte-street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers. Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars H B
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Svdney; 'and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne.— Advt. *
'iAQtBOANTO
Fire, Marine.
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Th ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
031NVM SJLN39V
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
> Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 43T5. Telegraphic: Walls, 6larence Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS, IRON U STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Steel Rails, Billets, Blooms,
Structural Steel, Pig Iron, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICE 3:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street Melbourne.
Ih6 ( hinese know this and insist on higher and
higher rates of pay.
So the manager is increasing liis force of
mild Javanese. But the Javanese are begin-
ning to know how many beans make five
too. This is a dreadful time for the poor
capitalist. Everywhere he turns he finds the
laborer more bent than ever on preventing
him becoming a millionaire.
Bukit Kubu is an estate of 653 acres, and
507 are under plantation. All except 17 acres
is over 41 years old, and 420 acres are six
years upwards. The estate is thus now
coming nicely into bearing, and the yield has
moved along this way :
JnJo" 2,6501 b. I 1915.. 50,1301 b.
1912.. 8,1901 b. I 1916.. 103,0001 b
1913.. 17.4501 b. I 1917.. 143,6001 b. ,
1914.. 30,9101 b. I
Last year's tapping was rather a disap-
pointment, as a bark disease made a start
and had to be fought; but, all going well, the
management figures on 185.0001 b. this year.
Last year the 101,0051 b. sold realised 2s. Bd.;
the unsold was taken in at 2s. 3d. Profit
last year on this basis was Is. 4Jd. per lb.
after providing for all charges. Allowing a
profit of Is. 3d. for the current year, the
total would be £11,500 on the estimated crop.
Add that and last year’s profit and you get
nearly <0 p.c. on the capital. And there are
no liabilities —the shareholders are risking
no capital but their own. The chances are
that those Chinese are figuring things out
like this for themselves. There are a few
other risks, too: some known (cyclones and
tree pests, for instance) ; others unknown.
There's the market, too. After what it was
a few years ago half a crown seems rock-
bottom. But there is no special virtue about
half a crown. If supply beats demand the
price will fall.
* * * *
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne), from
the date of the great cleaning up :
Profit
Trading on To He- Re-
July, Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911.. £4819 £329 3*p.e.= £3381 £ 1767 £23,863
1912.. 4954 1267 5 „ „ 4830 1391 25,254
1913.. 5733 2422 61 „„ 6279 1876 27.130
1914.. 6944 7469 7 „ „ 6762 7651 34,781
1915.. 8103 116 81 „„ 8211 8 34,789
1916.. 8207 9 81 „ „ 8211 5 34,794
1917.. 8865 9 „ 8694 171 34,965
This co., having cleared out most of the
wreckage, resumed the old money-lending
business on the building-society plan in
1910; and it is a proud Board which notifies
that not a single property lent on since then
is now in possession. It will be a reason-
ably prouder Board if it can say the same
at the end of 10 years. Really the perform-
ance doesn’t amount to much thus far; for
loans must be made with shocking indis-
cretion if the securities are thrown on to
the mortgagee’s hands on a rising or level
market, and with prosperity bubbling all
round. But. though things in the next seven
years are going to be quite unlike what they
have been in the past seven, this co. simply
can’t have the same difficulties as it had
after the Melbourne land boom broke. Nine-
tenths of the troubles of all the banks and
building societies then were due to the fact
that they couldn’t nurse their lame ducks be-
cause their own creditors were howling on
the doormat like dingoes. But see here:—
1912. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities ..£31,500 £43,941 £46,429 £46,821
Balances owing 95,739 120,866 128,018 128,465
Freehold house
property . . 4,000 2,500 2,500 2,500
Vacant land . . 7.348 1,292 1,308 1,308
Premises . . 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Other assets .. 1,101 5,506 349 948
Of those liabilities only £16,858 is due to
depositors; and things would have to be
simply dreadful if the co. couldn’t handle
debts of that size.
While no profit was made last year by
selling the fragments of the old assets at
better prices than they were written dow r n
to. the interest earnings were naturally a
shade better (£9781 as against £9641 in
1916). Evidently much better use can be
made of the capital nowadays; in 1912, for
instance, with £95.739 “due on account of
properties sold and on mortgage.” interest
earnings were only £44B9—under 5 p.c. The
average for the past couple of years has been
7f p.c. No doubt the difference is due
mainly to the much smaller proportion now-
adays of balances owing on properties. For
the next few years business will be slack ;
but on what there is interest earnings will
be good. The least satisfactory asset is
probably the Modern Buildings (£50.000).
It brings in now barely 51 p.c. net. a while
ago was earning rather less than 5 p.c. and
before long will do so again unless this
paper is agreeably surprised.
* * * *
8. Aus. Brewing Co. has raised its interim
dividend to 71 p.c. p.a. It caused a scare
last year by suddenly dropping to 6| from
the 10 which had lasted for years ; but this,
it is hinted, was just caution. There is no
balance-sheet till March, but chairman
Jacobs told the half-yearly meeting that
business results exhibit a most satisfactory
improvement on those for the same period
of the two preceding years. At all th“
branches of the co., and in particular at
Broken Hill, there had been an increased
output. Noticeably the bottle trade at Adel-
aide had further expanded. “Pursuing the
policy of fixing rent-reduction by agreement,
mutually satisfactory arrangements have
been entered into in all but some half-
oozen of the co.’s houses without resort to
the Court.... For some time past the co.
has held reserves far more than ample to
cover the worst that could happen ; but the
directors do not contemplate entrenching on
these, and in preference have already initi-
ated, and propose to continue the building
up of, new and separate reserves.”
Bourke’s Hill sluicing (N.S.W.) last half-
year paid a sixpenny (£1125). On August
•ll it had £896 available, and since then
realised £1350 on tin sales, so there is a
chance of’ another div. before long. The
co. is handicapped with 45,000 shares, de-
pending lately on one small plant. Still,
it did well last half-year, sluicing
08,000.vds. for 37 tons oxide, averaging
1.2191 b., at a cost of No. 2 plant has
now. been set to work on Preston’s block,
but isn’t doing so well.
The E. and A. Copper Co. made a profit
of £9lll last year, less £llBB debenture in-
terest, leaving £7323 net. The directors
have been paying Is. p.a. in recent years,
and this was made free of tax in 1910. In
1898 the capital was reduced to £105,000 in
70,000 shares of 30s. each. After payihg
i£3500) plus the tax the Board added
£3718 to general profit and loss, increasing
the. credit to £8052. The E. and A. was
registered in 1804, so it has had plenty of
experience of the market; but the big war
created a difficulty—especially in realising
on standard copper—and the ancient con-
cern had reluctantly to cease buying and
close down.
Bendigo’s last nine months’ mining has
given worse results than any corresponding
period for many years. Thus :—■
1912 .. 130,8240 z. I 1916 .. 89,2320 z.
1913 .. 123,5460 z. | 191 G .. t>4,9380z.
1914 .. 124,2840 z. | 1917 .. 52,9300 z.
Quite time either Dyason or somebody else
got an oxygen tube at work.
*.* * *
Jim Boyd, M.P., is issuing invitations to
the funeral of the Jumbunna Coal Co.,
although it has 50 gears' work ahead. Just
think what that means! Perhaps some
Larry Foley with a straight left and a bull-
dog s disposition will come in and put up a
fight for Australia. With the Jumbunna
under the turf the State coal-mine at Won-
thaggi will be the sole survivor of the Gipps-
land coal industry, out of which Bill
Baillieu, Stamp, David Syme and L. L.
Smith were to make millions. And the
State mine is losing heavily. As far as divs.
go, Victoria would have been far better off
if it had left black coal alone. Now the
end is coming because a few irreconcilables
are determined to make a commotion even
though they can earn up to 365. per shift
and live in the best of climates.
“Broken”: Punting on the Melbourne
markets just now is on alluvial truck-load
samples. This is a deep-lead spinning-jinny
game as old as Creswick or Ballarat. Spring
Hill Leads was once famous for its truck-
load yields and infamous for its puddling
results. Main Leads (Maryborough) was
another illustration. So when any alluvial
hero puts out a few truckload samples it
is time to call for bulk averages. Ask
where the gold came from—the side or
bottom of the gutter. Is it from a cross-
drive, or a leading drive along the lead?
Have the samples come from a run of gold
or are they representative of a cut across the
width of ground to be worked? Thus 60ft.
of a gutter may be poor stuff; then 60ft.
may be reported payable. Truck-load sam-
ples taken from this section of the drive
may go 14oz. to the fathom. But there may
be only 20ft. of the 120 ft. worked that will
give anything like that, and another 100 ft.
across the lead may be low grade. Managers
should report the area of wash-dirt uncov-
ered in drives and the full quantity sent to the
puddler, and they ought to mark the posi-
tion whence the wash came on the mine plan.
Then it could be seen if there has been any
discarding or mixing from cross-drives and
leading drives, or if dependence has been on
the latter. If there be no width of pay-
ground honest cross-drive sampling will soon
disclose the weakness. All this means sys-
tematising work. When systematised, the
next thing to insist on is. that the sampling
returns are available to all, and that the
news isn’t pouched till a select few have
the run of the market.
Mt. Moliagul Molybdenite, near Dunolly
(Vic.), has been launched with a capital of
£60,000, of which £40,000 in 20s. shares is
to be issued. The molybdenite is dissemi-
nated through decomposed granite. Several
other deposits of this type have been dis-
covered in Australia and Canada. In the
latter country the Quyon is the largest pro-
ducer, its output in 12 months being valued
at £25,852.
East Gippsland has something handy in the
way of a water-power proposition, according
to James Cameron, M.L.A. for those parts.
On one side of the Snowy River is the Mount
Deddick silver-lead show; on the other the
Mount Bowen copper proposition, and
according to X. S. Wales official figures the
river is good for 40,000h.p. just there. East
Gippsland also reckons that it has iron sup-
plies that are going to amount to something
one day.
New bosses at the Ben Lomond Tin
(Tas.) are manager T. H. Bailey, of the
old Royal George mine, and director A. J.
Cleveland. Already Bailey has been blowing
the froth off. The best words he can find
are “great possibilities,” which, after all, is
a thin lath to support a 150,000-share con-
cern. At 420 ft. he has 20ft. by 10ft. of a
pipe of tin ore and 3ft. of 3 p.c. at the 106 ft.
level. That explains better than anything
e-lse why in the last half-year onlv 1020 tons
went to the battery for 20 j- tons‘of tin con-
centrates. The biggest debt the co. has is
±'2ooo lent to it by director Cleveland. Its
best assets look to be the undeveloped forma-
tions north and south of the shaft and a
manager w ho has the pluck to say that it is
fool’s play to spend money at the surface
instead of underground.
Hampden Clonourry’s 779 tons of blister
copper for September is the best for over
two years. But of a total of 7777 tons
smelted 2077 tons were on account of small
claim holders, the Hampden having now a
good hold on this trade. Still there isn’t
necessarily a big profit in it. Ft. Kembla
could tell something about that. Just at
present that co. doesn’t know where it
stands. It can buy all right: the trouble
is about selling at a price to show a profit.
The Scottish Gympie is the most economi-
cally worked quartz show in Queensland. In
July it crushed 8600 tons for 25970 z., worth
£8996, and 3400 tons of tailings returned
£859. Yet it pays an occasional 2d. (£5500).
Of every 100 tons of stone crushed at Gympie
the Scottish supplies about 95 tons. ‘ Still
out of the 5 p.c. the small mines get nearly
40 p.c. of the field's gold.
The Devon (W.A.) still has a “classy”
Collins-street office. Its chief complaint is
want of ore, but according to the very latest
the Board is thinking it won’t be long before
calls wall be,off. Perhaps; but with shallow
levels, a bunchy formation and only 3ft.
makes to stope, there isn’t much chance of
any permanent haven of dividends being
reached.
* * * *
Burma Corporation had its genesis w'hen
H. C. Hoover was still in the Bewick-More-
ing pack. Its object was to treat the slags
left by the Chinese smelters generations
back. Hertzig, who later on stumbled oyer
Great Cobar, went up from Melbourne to
do the sampling. lie came back shivering
with malaria and moulting hair badly, but
able to stand up for the property. Some-
hovv 8., M. and Co. slipped their control,
which Hoover and Govett got, thus depriving
the firm of the best thinv that had come their
way—or anybody’s way—since the palmy
days of Ivalgoorlie. Underground to 653 ft.
reserves are bigger and richer than those of
the biggest single thing at Broken Hill.
Thus:—
Tons. Silveroz. Lead p.c. Zinc.p.c.
Proved ore ...3,223,000 25.6 27.7 20.6
Partly ditto.. 421,000 22.3 25.3 22.3
Total ..3,644,000 25.2 27.4 20.9
Twelve months before that estimate was
framed the co. had only 2,300,000 tons of
proved and probable ore, so that an increase
of over 50 p.c. was got in a year in a modest
development campaign. Work at the two
faces at the bottom level north and south
on the Chinaman’s lode proves rich ore
living there, 75ft. and 50ft. wide. What
stuff for John Chinaman to bequeath to the
Yankee-London crowd to fatten on! These
have now given seats in their coach to J. A.
Agnew, S. C. Magennis, E. H. Greig and
other mining men well known to Australians.
Burma Corporation is really a million share-
holding co., owning £210.283 out of £213,685
debenture stock and 511,505 shares out of
512,046 shares in the Burma Mines Ltd.,
which runs the mine. One big job has been
to drive a double-track tunnel 7250 ft. to cut
the bottom level. Divs. may materialise
next year ; they couldn’t do so before, as equip-
ment couldn’t, with war and transport
trouble, keep pace with development. With
ore like that proved to draw on, with labor
plentiful and docile, and hard Yanks to
hustle the team, the Hoover-Govett combine
expects to stand up against any metal-
market collapse once it has all the wheels
going. *
Au effort is to be made to develop the
marble deposits at South Ulam, Central
Bananaland. \V. P. Macintosh, an expert
in the trade, reports that about 30 or 40 p.c.
of the deposit shows clear white, and when
a face of 40ft. has been attained the marble
should be of the finest quality, and superior
in cojor and working qualities to the im-
ported from Carrara. The rest of the deposit
shows a pure white ground With green veins
and markings, or with reddish and dark
markings.


Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kinfi
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck;
mu
champagne
OiarifsHtidsi**
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
PLEASURABLE
CYCLING
%
ma
m
is now ob-
tainable at
no cost of
energy and
very small
one of
money, by
using a
Smith Auto Wheel,
the instantly-detaehable Motor Wheel.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write or call for particulars.
Eyes and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adel-
aide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0.,
Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co.
Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne; K. R.
Russack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Frankel & Co.. Edward St.,
Brisbane.
DON’T DRUG YOUR NERVES.
IF THEY ARE WEAK TAKE PHOS-
PHATE WITH YOUR MEALS.
Some drugs lessen the sensitiveness of the
nervous system so that the brain acts slowly,
the nerves do not respond readily to the
directions of the brain, and every function
of the body is retarded. Others act as a
lash to the nerves, so that the user is fired
temporarily with feverish energy. Both are
equally dangerous, for there is the inevitable
reaction which leaves the sufferer far worse
than before. Therefore, don’t drug your
nerves ! Get to understand them and study
their needs. Nerves give way because they
are weak, and they become weak through
lack of food and nourishment. The futility
of thrashing a starved horse is obvious, and
it is just as futile and just as foolish to
lash weak, exhausted nerves by the admin-
istration of violent drugs. Nerves feed on
phosphate, which they extract from digested
food, and the fact that your nerves are weak
proves they are not obtaining sufficient
phosphate for their needs. You can remedy
this serious fault by providing your nerves
with phosphate in a readily assimilable
form, a most suitable and convenient being
bitrophosphate, which most chemists stock in
the form of 5-grain compressed tablets. Take
one of these small tablets immediately after
every meal and you will soon note a
decided improvement in your health. Your
nerves will become steady and strong, your
brain will act quickly and clearly; your
appetite will improve; you will sleep better,
and wake up bright and refreshed, charged
with an abundance of vital energy sufficient
to carry you through the most strenuous
day.—Advt.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ CSX, CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falla - Barron Gorge, V
the wonderful hmterland.
ounshme , Palm Trees , S V
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and Scentc splendour
A Booklet telling all about »t
is yours for tke asking
/v// in fh IS Coupon.-
fVome _
Address
ffxo Director of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
\ Brisbane. OUEENSLAN®*
&g£
??r.
«Z7i
£*.'_V
X-.
tazJfe±t' r
ISifcJ
>4
S.B
rl m
u
'vV "
m
m
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 8, 1917.
Aly Dear Arini, —
Sydney presswomen are enjoying it. The
A.J.C., with characteristic snobbishness,
slammed the door of the so-called “official”
pen upon them. They didn’t mind. They
declined to go down upon their knees. They
guessed what would happen, and were very
well content to wait. The highfliers who
put on new and expensive rags want them
talked about by the column. Now, the
smart-setter hugs the miscalled “official”
stand; so when the Jockey Club closed it to
the presswomen, there was soon a cloud in
the sky. At first no bigger than a thimble,
it promises to be the size of a pumpkin patch
by the Autumn meeting.
Wednesday’s races at Randwick brought
out the frilly white frock with lemon lace
and a canary-pie. hat to make it taste of the
Spring of 1917. The ve*’andah-awning pat-
terns adorn our leading frockers. Airs. Tom
Rolin wore one of the magpie creations with
the big stripes up and down. Airs. Geoff
Fairfax was beautifully striped in the same
wide ribs of black and white, with a dash
of color. There’s a soft dark shade of brown
—it’s an insult to the dyer to call it
“nigger”—much favored by dressy matrons.
Alade in the clinging Georgette muslin —as
donned by Airs. Spencer Brunton —it’s a
quiet symphony in tone that takes to any
kind of hat the wearer chooses to jamb on
her head. Airs. Val Osborne, wearing,this
muslin-of-the-moment. was smoke grey, with
a heavily-striped finish of blue and biscuit.
Airs. Allen Taylor, in elephant grey, sat in
the big stand.
Saturday was one of those useful all-
round days, with a nip in the air, and it
sent local Society to Randwick in any-
thing it fancied. Seal coats, fur-edged win-
ter tweeds, summer films—all paced the
circle around the ugly tote house. Deputy
Town Clerk Layton brought a pretty
daughter, Mary, to her first race-meeting.
She was one of the few damsels who looked
as if she wasn't bored almost to tears. The
1917 girl has nothing brilliant 'in a sac suit
to trot her round the Randwick lawn. There
are racing men in thousands, and they wear
the tag “Sports,” but
Fuji silk, a rich relation of Assam, had
a great outing. Airs. John Sandes, in a
pale salmon-tinted Fuji, backed her fancy
with Airs. Leonard Dodds, who was also
Fuji—cream and navy. The dark shade of
blue —Airs. Fred AlcMaster was clothed in
a smart variety of the Tar’s favorite tint—
was revived right through the mild dress
parade. Freaks who usually add to the
gaiety of backing the wrong horse were
mostly absent. One day brought forth a
green-and-mustard pair, who walked out
together, then wilted into the unknown. Fan
Dango (Airs. Alackay) put in an appear-
ance on the earlier days. Dr. Pat Kenna
and his golden-haired lady were regular
visitors. Airs. Floyd, with the Irish know-
ledge of a good nag, enthused over the
Dowling Steeplechase—one of the best
jumpers’ items of the week, with Lord Cecil,
a head to spare, first at the winning post.
The AA T ilfred Steads, who brought their
sporting ambitions across from Alaoriland,
haven’t struck a lucky patch yet. The pair
have been at Lewisham Hospital ever since
their arrival. Airs. Stead was one of the
Scotchbyterian John Roberts clan of Dun-
edin, the tribe with the gilded bank
account. The Steads own a station and stud
at Napier, and came over with last year’s
race-dream vivid still. A tidy team of gee-
gees and partner Ted Lutrell from Chch. are
representing their interests here.
Another Alaoriland brace in search of
sun, Air. and Airs. Arthur Elworthy, will set
sail for their sheepery in S. Canterbury
next boat. Airs. Elworthy used to be Ella
Julius, daughter of Bishop J., once of
Ballarat.
The Spring and Autumn wedding of
Eileen Desmond O’Brien (she’s a handsome
30 or so) and the veteran shipping man
Walter Watt (lie’s a charming Autumn,
anyhow) was a very quiet affair. Alost of
the people interested were at the races. The
others were at St. Alark’s, Darling Point.
One of Sydney’s old homes, Kurraghein,
Ba.vswater-road, where Airs. Lance Lloyd
and Miss AATlliams have spent most of their
lives, had a recent sale of work to help the
Girls’ Friendly Society. And a lovely after-
noon to help Aliss Onslow with her opening
remarks. Ivurraghein in the years that the
moth has eaten was the property of the late
John Williams, lawyer. Now a widowed
daughter and her sister watch the city eat
up the once leafy suburb.
James Burns, knight, had to worm his
way through a dense crowd in St. James’s
Hall the other afternoon. With him stepped
out the Scotchbyterian Aloderator in a cas-
cade of lace relieved by black cloth. Other
clerics and the usual infant with a presen-
tation bouquet clasped to her pinny mounted
the platform while the Caledonian accent
burst into an opening Psalm. The affair
was an Australian market, which brought a
nice bag of cash to the kirk’s social-service
committee. Later it will produce a crop of
home-grown deaconesses.
The affluent 19th Battalion committee will
hear at least £5OO fall into its bag as the
result of the needlework sales in the A.J.C.
rooms. For two days this upper chamber,
round which hang the pictures of turf mag-
nates, was like a pre-war reception at Gov-
ernment House. The work deserved to go
off like young debutantes —or as they used
to. Lingerie such as Ida Rentoul’s fairies
might order was sold or raffled with glitter-
ing results.
Victims in part of the strike, and hung up
for eight or nine Weeks with never a ghost
to walk, the luckless Italian chorus, late of
the Gonsalez Co., had another knock-down
last week. The hon. organisers of a benefit
concert —Filippini and the kindly Airs. Fer-
rari Passmore—were presumably too shy to
give the thing wide publicity. This excuses
the Italian community, as a body, for its
absence from the Town Hall. Consul Alarano
drifted into a desert of chairs and collected
a friend to keep him company. Then the
chorus, who must have felt as lively as a
banshee wailing at its own funeral, opened
the show with a dismal rendering of the
Soldiers’ Chorus from “Faust.” No wonder.
Our big municipal barn, with two or three
hundred people, is a sarcophagus to sing in.
Alartinelli, Sid Alacdonald. Alarie Segur,
Lottie Hyam and baritone Filippini were in-
cluded in the programme.
Of course you remember the frisky Airs.
Forbes, who kept the Strickland household in
a ferment when her tall husband was
A.D.C.? The London Times of a few weeks
back mentions a divorce, and the lady claims
to be the injured heroine.
There’s a slender
bundle of energy,
Mrs. Arthur Jewett,
who still calls her-
self “Joint hon.
sec.” of the French-
Australian League,
though the other
half, Miss Soubeiran,
is nearing her native
France. This week
over should
come in through an
art union, to go via
the League to bruised
Francois —part of a
magnificent stream
which steadily flows
from Australia to
the widows and
orphans of our incomparable Ally.
In December, 1914, Airs. Georges Playoust,
Aliss Soubeiran and her pal Aliss Gurney,
already busy sewing for baby France, began
to interest the public. “What! Another
fund!” exclaimed the pessimists. AVe were
young in war in those days, and had only
a hazy notion of AVant and Famine. “Why
not?” replied Aliss Soubeiran with flashing
eyes. “We will ask, for our poor French,
only a little from wealthy Australia!” In
nearly three jears the little has grown into
a mountain of warm clothes, and over £50,000
in cash has been cabled to help the destitute.
The Australian school kiddy can here shake
hands with his class mates. Look round the
busy hive in Alacdonell House, Pitt-street,
and you will see piles of little garments
made by small hands, under Teacher’s watch-
ful eye—things from the tasselled Sunset,
from the snows of Alonaro highlands and the
little bush schools at the back of Nowhere-in-
Particular. All day and every day there is
work for the League to do from 9 a.m. till 5
o’clock. And there’s no more persistent
sticker at her job than the lady whose photo.
I send you. She is the youngest daughter of
the late John Geddes, a pioneer wool man in
this State, and has her father’s knack of
getting a good grip of anything in hand.
Sarony is responsible for the photo.
Julia Fitzhardinge, daughter of the
Judge, and cousin Alarjorie collaborated in
a little play the other week. It helped the
Y.W.C.A. rest-room fund in St. James’s Hall
the other evening. The fantasy concerned
a schoolgirl who scorned bread-and-butter
and dreamt she supped with the Immortals.
A dozen or so damsels took part. Portia
Bennett was the schoolgirl. Some of the
Immortals had a nasal twang. But they’ve
been dead so long that they wouldn t mine
more acrid criticism than that.
Trooper Stirling Blacket, of the t
Horse, has just got the Military Aec a .
There’s a proud father, architect Cyril, get-
ting the local congratulations.
Rose Lyons and Airs. Fred Marks are
going to make the 13th a lucky day for the
30th Battalion with a kiddies’ matinee ball
in the Paddington Town Hall.
The Scotney-White duet got a better
audience for their last concert in the Town
Hall. They had the early-to-shed strike-
tram to start with. Evelyn is a handsome
creature, and no one can be silent about her
clothes. On Saturday she was clad in a
goddess gown of azure satin with a flash ot
sunlight about her shoulders. As a singer she
kidnaps a pure soprano that ought to hit the
stars and limes it in tne back of her throat,
then she closes her eyes and occasionally
her mouth. Out of such a nose as a sculp-
tor dreams of comes, in consequence, fre-
quent ventriloquist effects that would have
driven old Marchesi into explosive language.
John Amadio’s flute, with perfectly-played
accompaniments by Harold Elvins, caught
the ear of the audience. Howard White's
forte is a coon song. Unfortunately he
doesn't think so.
The Babies' Home at Aslifield wants help.
A hard-pressed Government has had to cut
off some of its support, and milk is up. A
worried committee clamors for anything you
can send to its garden-party on October 16.
Sydney specialists, though their ranks
are thinned, have, in spite of strikes, at-
tracted Dowpie-Stewart, M.H.R., from
Dunedin. The Alaoriland law-maker re-
turned from Gallipoli suffering from rheu-
matism and neuritis, and they won’t leave
him. He has an anxious sister alongside,
and hopes for benefit from climate and
change.
When the latest mail from London was
leaving, the one-time Sheila Chisholm, of
Sydney, now Lady Loughborough and the
future Countess of Rosslyn, was about to
display her physical attractions in a “Swin-
burne ballet” at the Lyric theatre for the
benefit of a war charity. The Daily
Alirbor, which describes her as an “Aus-
tralian beauty,” reports her as “winning
praise at the rehearsals.”
There was a quiet wedding at St. Pat-
rick’s a week or two ago, when a Soustra-
lian man, Edmund Oswald Kirby, of Mount
Gambier, gave a gold circlet to Alossie Ohrter.
The bride is a daughter of the Robert
Carters of Neutral Bay and Narromine; the
’groom grows sheep. And, I suppose, pota-
toes. You can’t help growing potatoes at
Mount Gambier.
The V.A.D., which had an annual review
on Saturday afternoon, is the mountain that
evolved from a mouse. In the latter end of
1914 it was a small and timorous thing,
carried on by a wave of excitement. Gradu-
ally the long w r ar has tried its constituents,
sorted out and kept what was best, and
attracted other like material. On review day
the Cullen lady addressed the patriotic
pinnies. Help d’Apice trod softly behind
the deputy-sub-regal dame, and Airs. Chris
Bennett, State head of the Vols., was every-
where. Hanbury Davies was in the official
ring, closely guarded by well-broomed Boy
Scouts; and with him Surgeon-Colonel Lane
Alullins, rather a sick man of late. At the
word of command stretcher-bearers turned
on their heels like the proverbial polo pony
on a threepenny bit.
At Lincluden, Rose Bay, there’s to be a
gorgeous garden fete this Saturday after-
noon. It’s for the A.AI.C. Comforts, and
will fill the Anderson Stuarts’ grounds with
pirates in muslin frocks.
R. T. Carter, who died on Thursday at
Jack Want’s old home, Darling Point, was
a Sydney native, born in 1843 in Sussex-
street. He was accounted an expert in fine
arts, of which he was a diligent collector.
He certainly had a fine lot of original
sketches by the late Conrad Alartens, which
may now find their way to the Alitchell
Library or Art Gallery.
The Daffodil Stalwarts are proud of
their War Chest success on the 28th. They
have handed in to the Splendid Spendthrift
£414 and some silver, and when the baby
doll and her bedstead, now on view in Stott
and Hoare’s window, in Pitt-street, are
raffled, there’ll be an additional cheque. The
shell-pink cr@pe de chine nightgown made by
Aliss Gwenda Alonie brought £l7 in raffle
money and was won hy a worker in the
A r oluntary Caffi.
Tenor Philip Wilson has had his annual
wail in the Conservatorium. A large and
fashionably-unclad assembly sat at his
patent-leather toes. Thank Heavens, there
are still small patches of intensive musical
Culture amongst our smart setters, who grow
the thing, like forced asparagus, as an out-
of-season relish, to be solemnly eaten in
public!
Up in grape-vined Albury there’s a group
of entertainment damsels who call themselves
“Billjim’s Sisters.” And when that hero
throws his bayonet away and returns to his
reaping-hook, no doubt he’ll know how to
thank the girls who have raised £lOOO in tin*
last 12 months. It has gone to the 4th and
sth Artillery Brigades. Many of the Fifth
came from the district, along with Major
(Dr.) Shellsliear, now a lieut.-colonel.
Spots and stripes were boldly mixed in
some of the Spring frocks at Randwick. The
result was arresting. For instance, an exu-
berant matron who is a zebra to the waist
and a lemon-and-black-spotted setter from
there to her ankles is hard to place. We now
mix our duds. The effect is very similar, I
fancy, to mixing drinks.
The war sat on the Spring race-week.
Only a few hushed small-and-early private
dances —the Bruntons gave one—and some
little dinners for buds and young soldiers
broke the suburbs’ calm. Races were half-
hearted from a social point of view, and the
old peacock-parade was not.
For many years
the Rose Bay Golf
Club has had as
secretary Ross Gore,
whose countenance,
as Falk sees it, is
here enclosed. Since
the war very few
able-bodied young
men haunt the pre-
mises, and most of
the women who are
deep in the sea of
socks and comforts
all the week are too
tired for much
goffing on Saturdays.
There are others, of
course. As hon.
organiser of War
Chest Day, Ross
Gore dragged them all into the circle of
Highway Robbers, and was more respon-
sible for its heavily-gilded results than lots
of people who have had more frequent men-
tion.
A note from Mary Gilmore: —
We have names to our streets, our houses and our
children. We have beautiful gardens and many
parks, and (as far as the public knows) never a
name to a path in one of them. Yet in the Gardens
alone we might have The Avenue of the Palms, The
Avenue of the Pines, The Path of the Flame Tree,
The Lawn of the Ponds, The Lawn of the Willows,
of The Fountain, of The Pavilion, and in Centennial
Park The Grand Avenue of the Palms, The Walk of
the Roses, The Highway, and so on. Besides giving
individuality—almost personality—to places, it
would be a convenience to the public, and would
increase pleasure in remembrance. And think what
a field it would offer to poets and others!
But the idea is not a joke, even though there he
room for jokes in connection with it. And it really
would, if carried out, enrich our literary and pic-
torial references, now tied to names about as melodi-
ous and as useful to imagination as half a brick!
Perhaps some public-spirited person or some poeti-
cally-minded body will prepare a list of names suit-
able —and not such as would suggest foot-rules and
dry goods.
Hush ! There’s a whisper of a very quiet
naval wedding this week—so quiet that no
names may be mentioned till the ’groom’s
grey cruiser gets its orders aboard.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


MK. t. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
LILT US
prove:
WHY!
MR. ARTHUR SUMMONS
Sales Manager
PLAYER PIANO
is the
LATEST AND BEST.
%
! • •
■it®
i i :
m
■fit
.. F ;
V ‘-‘ !
.; - *
are many Reasons, but we
just give Four that are
INDISPUTABLE.
-It is the Easiest to Pedal! Why?
Because the wind chest has been elimin-
ated, thus giving 50 per cent, greater
repetition with one-third of the amount
of pumping required by other players.
A child or confirmed invalid can pedal
for hours without fatigue.
The Motor! Why ?
Because it is the lightest, smoothest-
running and most durable air-motor
ever designed, with small rotating
metal valves in place of the usual cum-
bersome wooden slides. It is practi-
cally frictionless, and does not require
lubrication.
-The Transposing Device! Why?
Because it enables you to play song
accompaniments in any key to suit any
voice, and as the latest song rolls con-
tain the words p inted on them, it
makes this imp ovement especially
interesting.
-It Plays with Human Expression!
Because of the wonderful control over
the pedals, which enables the performer
to portray every musical mood instantly.
EASY TO PEDAL.
sold by over 1000 retail representatives in the United States of
America alone, which fact speaks for itself.
The manufacturer has in the LATEST MODELS (a huge ship-
ment of which has just arrived) so simplified and perfected
the mechanism as to enable him to give a 10 years’ factory
guarantee, which we pass on to our purchasers.
If you own an upright or grand piano, and through sentiment or some
other reason would not care to part with it, allow us to install our
88-note
Player Action.
We can do this without mutilating the case, altering the tone quality or
interfering with the keyboard in any way, and it can still be used as an
ordinary piano.
You owe it to yourseif to test our Statements.
We also stock the famous Gulbransen and Dickinson Pianos.
THEY ARE POSITIVELY THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
If unable to call, send for catalogues (posted free).
CASH Oil TERMS —£5 DOWN AND SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
E. F. WILKS CO. LTD.,
Macdonell House, 321 PITT STIV.EET (Next to y.m.c.aj, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
FACTORY: CORNER KENT STREET and ALBION PLACE.
Factory, City 1144. Tel - : Showroom, City 10752.
Newcastle Representative: A. COHEN, Piano Warehouse, Maitland Road, Hamilton.


(.-v
n
tp a/
' '
TRAVELLING REQUISITES
For Young and Old
at FARMER'S
TRl.—Attache Cases., h'ght and strong', corner
capped. 12in. 14in. 16in.
PRICES 6/11 8/6 9/11
TR2. —Vulcanoid Suit Case, light weight, with
lock and two clips. 22in. 2tin. 26in.
PRICES 22/6 28/6 31/6
TR3. —“Victor” Suit Case, polished hide on
strong- frame, two secure locks and inside straps.
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
PRICES .. 33/6 36/6 39/6 42/-
TR4.—Matting Suit Cases, leather trimming,
lock and two clips. 21in. 24in. 26in.
PRICES 6/6 8/6 10/6
'£lls. —Kit Bag, strong frame, with side lock
and two end clips. 14in. 16in. ISin. 20in.
PRICES .. 17/6 19/6 22/- 25/-
TR6.—Travelling- Rug, all pure wool, 84 x 60.
PRICE 28/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
II\E PAY CAPRI AGE.
\Aeltcmian
I ▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KI ND S OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St.. Melbourne.
E BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER . THE • WORLD
COOL CLOTHES
are ready for you at
BUCKLEY’S
“FLORIDA CLOTH”
Summer Suits
LIGHT, AIRY
and
COMFORTABLE
on the hottest of
HOT DAYS
_
“Florida Cloth” Summer Suits-
This neat, feather-weight wash t’abm
looks exactly like regular suiting
material —tailors and holds its shap*-
equally well. Yet it washes withou
he slightest sign of shrinkage 01
wrinkling. Made in All Sizes in nij*n'
attractive patterns. Price .. - • °°' m
SUMMER CLOTHES for the BOY.
Boys’ Wash Suits and Blouses, in
pleasing designs. Striped Hollands,
10/6, 12/6, and 14/ b -
Heavy Tussore Silks 22/6
Blouses in Tobraleo Shirtings 5/6
State age and height when writing-
State height, chest and waist measuie
inents over vest when ordering.
A DEFINITE GUARANTEE
to those Ordering by Mail:
Your Money returned if you are
not satisfied.
BDCKLEY S NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne. October 8, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie.-
The War Council (represented by Fink)
and the City (represented by Hennessy)
got to holts last week in the Totvn Hall and
the thundery echoes of the fight are still
rumbling round town. The meeting of Im-
portants was called to plot a lucky-bag
street sale in aid of the blind soldiers. Mrs.
McCubbin Avas organiser. Some little niceties
of etiquette had been overlooked in the
preliminaries, it seems. Kiosks in the
streets had been planned and arranged
without formally asking the permission of
the Perpetual Gaud Mayor. Wherefore
Ilennessy presently took occasion to remark
in a surprised way that he Avas not aware
of the kiosks and that the plan might inter-
fere with the continuous button-days. Here
Fink popped up excitedly and said that no
button-days and no persons would interfere
Avith a scheme fathered by the War Council.
Then the rich brogue of the Hennessy rolled
out and the staccato bark of Fink answered.
Secretary Burbank tried to speak, but Avas
not heard. Fink at last deferred to the
quiet and dignified Mrs. Alexander Landale
—booked as president—who refused ner-
A’ously but firmly to take the chair and with-
drew from the whole affair. JeAveller NeAvman
listened in an agitated Avay, then wound him-
self up and told everybody what o’clock it
was. At last Burbank got his chance and
stretched his neck across the table, while
he hurled speech at the dangerously-inflated
Hennessy. Hennessy evidently thought the
meeting too yeasty ; and declared it closed.
lloweA T er, he found that the batch was too
hot to shift. Mrs. McCubbin told every-
body of all the preparatory work that had
been done, and read out a list of firms and
people who had arranged to help. Hennessy
again declared the meeting closed and stalked
from the room. But a section of the meet-
ing still engaged in argument till it dis-
covered itself drifting helplessly Avithout
president, vice-president or other executive
officers.
Among the non-combatants who had come
to help were Mrs. Alfred Deakin (looking
as young as her own daughter) and the wife
of Professsor Allen, Avho sat quietly and let
her violet serge frock do tl\e talking for her.
Mrs. Sellheim wore a deep blush and effective
brown garments. Mrs. Tallis was speech-
less in the midst of grey Avolf furs. Mrs.
Lane had the deeper pink of excitement on
her wonderful complexion, and pretty Mrs.
Boyes, from Bananaland. watched the spar-
ring for the Overseas Club. Mrs. Pinschof
looked on from a prominent position. Mrs.
Craven and Mrs. Stead glowed in their uoav
V.A.D uniforms, Talk about the fighting
in France!
The G.-G.. apparelled in a faAvn weskit.
spats and other seasonable fittings, opened
the Wild Flo Aver Show in the Town Hall
last week. He was moved to make a long
and enthusiastic speech—the scent would
have inspired anyone. The gate money from
the show was to help the Y.M.C.A., and his
Ex. carefully made a mild joke about wild-
flowers helping young men who escheAA’ed
Avild oats. Whereat Lady Helen smiled in the
correct wifely way. She was sitting alongside
in a black dress wuth white satin trimmings.
Lady Macartney was close handy in purple
and fine furs.
The Stanley Excellency opened a fete in
aid of the Seamen’s Mission at the Simon
Frasers’ Toorak house on Saturday. The
lawns were like sponges to begin with, and
it rained at inteiwals through the afternoon.
The consorts of all our leading knights —
Lachlan Maekinnon, James Grice, Harry
Allen and others —presided over stalls, and
the Toorakracy arrived in force without its
goloshes, and mostly felt sorry that it hadn’t
stayed at home.
Muriel, younger daughter of medical
Colonel Bryant, narrowly escaped being
inquested last Aveek. After an eA r ening
frivol on a Belgian training-ship, some of
the guests were descending the gangway
when the Avretelied thing wobbled. The
other guests who were on it hit the pier
safely, but the Bryant girl, who was Avear-
ing a heavy fur coat over her evening dress,
was thrown into Ihe black void between ship
and pier. The second-officer dived to the
rescue, and, after many awful minutes of
suspense, the victim w r as hauled aboard by a
rope.
News of the death of Sam McCulloch's
pretty American wife came as a shock. Be-
fore the war she and her step-daughters,
Kathleen McCulloch and the Baroness
Albert Sadoine, gladdened Sam’s beautiful
home at Woodlands, Ararat, and many a
festive hall beside. Two children are in
mourning for their mother, and condolences
are widespread and sincere.
The Fritz Hart couple have been frantic.
They nearly lost their chubby lambkin
Basil. Mrs. Fritz and her son were holi-
daying at Parkes (N.S.W.), when a defec-
tive gun wounded the child in the stomach.
He had to be conveyed on a railway trolley
to medical assistance. Fritz threw away his
music and rushed up with doctors, and now
all goes satisfactorily with the little patient.
Mrs. Fritz Hart had a railway trip she
isn’t likely to forget while rushing young
son Basil to the doctor after the shooting
accident. The boy had to be taken on a
railway tricycle 20 miles through the night.
Mother sat holding a red lamp while two
station hands worked the tricycle. On the
return journey these two had to push the
vehicle up hill for miles. Yet grateful dad
says their language was Australian when
he offered them a reward for their kindness.
Mrs. Dyer (Louise Smith of years
ago) gave a party on Saturday afternoon
at the Lyceum Club. It was a Springlike
indoor function with a winter storm raging
outside. The blue-eyed hostess wore Dutch
blue ninon with a chiffon hat tied under
her chin. Mrs. L. L. Smith helped to
“receive.”
The October meetine at Flemington on
Saturday began the Spring campaign of
dressing, galloping and betting, that will
last well into November. There was ice in
the air and a chilly southerly blew rain-
clouds along, so the unhappy fashion-platers
had to get into their wet-weather clothes
with last season’s dullness hanging about
them. Mrs. Jack Winter-living wore a
pinky-brown fur coat made like a ’Varsity
gown, and brought a tall college son as
escort. Mrs, Graves, in black, wore shells
in her stiff hat. Steward Croker hid his
figure in a heavy overcoat. Mrs. Stephen
Rowan, down fr, i Bananaland. was muffled
in furs. The Alderman Jeffries daughter
sported a violent orange hat. The newest
wraps are shawls made of furs. One dame
sported ermine in the fashion of Granny’s
shawl, fringe and all. Howard Hunt's hand-
some Avife wore a fur cape over a check dress.
Charles Clarke, one-time rifle-shooting
champion, and his family are mourning the
loss of a second son killed in action two
Aveeks after getting into the trenches. The
elder boy, Lieut. Jack, gave his life early
this year. They Avere as handsome and pro-
mising a brace of sons as any parents could
Avish for—a loss to family and country. A
brother-in-latv has been listed as missing for
six months past.
Captain Conant is
the blase you n g
A.D.C. with the blue
eyes and the inter-
esting limp (he was
wounded early in tile
war) who only wak-
ens with interest
when there is a
pretty girl on the
horizon. He hates
acting as nursegirl
or w rap- carrier.
When he is doing
any little jobs of the
kind for the Stan-
leys his fine, Killar-
ney-Lake blue eyes
get a sad, faraway
expression, and the
hostess signals for
assistance with roc-
kets and flares.
CONANT,
Governor
Stanley's
gentleman-help,
assisting in the
opening of a
bazaar.
Pretty Mrs. Jack Sanderson, who was
marooned in London whilst on a visit
to her family, has been tasting the excite-
ments provided by the gentle Huns. Whilst
shopping at the edge of Piccadilly Circus the
store was bombed. She disdained to even
take cover under the boxes —of—of —of what-
ever they sell where she was shopping.
Bigjohn Forrest and Littlegeorge Pearce
gave a theatre-party at the King’s on Friday
night to a large batch of Westralians on the
way to the Front, and the khaki-clad stal-
warts waxed hilarious over the doings of e
Rudd family. The Bigjohn dame and some
friends occupied the managerial pen. wane
the box opposite was filled to overflowing b>
a Pearce family party, including the Minister
in Charge of the Bureau for Keeping things
Dark. .
The first woman to receive a military
funeral in Australia was Sister May Dick-
son. of the Queen Alexandra Imperial Mili-
tary Nursing Staff Reserve. The flag-draped
gun-carriage on which her coffin lay _^ as
drawn by six artillery horses from the Base
Hospital to the Coburg Cemetery last week.
Born in Australia, her health broke down
under the strain of nursing service in Eng-
land, and she was dying when she was car-
ried off the boat which brought her home.
On the coffin-lid were her cape and hat, and
six returned non-coms., some of whom had
been nursed by her. bore the pall. Placid
Courtney, son of Tom Courtney of Sydney
D.T., was the lieutenant in charge of the
firing-party which shot its three rounds
blank before the Last Post.
Sworn in at the Town Hall recruiting
depot last week. William Henry, the 19-
year-old son of Judge Moule, who his
written consent in due legal form. W.H.,
jun.. is an athletic Grammar boy of oft. llin.
ilis brother, Lance-corporal Humphrey
Moule, was killed in Gallipoli.
Lady Helen has a meeting every month
for the Friendly Union of Soldiers' Wives.
At Fridav’s rally at Federal Government
House Mrs. Pearce. Mrs. Legge, Mrs.
Monash and Mrs. Williams were elected
vice-presidents. Lady Helen, of course, is
president. This was the second year’s meet-
ing. and a fine programme of future enter-
tainments was mapped out. Mrs. Brock-
man and Mrs. Sellheim, both ardent helpers,
were also present.
The Stewarts, of Kanawalla. Western Dis-
trict. are at the Grand welcoming son Selwyn.
who has been invalided home. With him is
his bride —once Kitty Tucker.
Adelaide's postscript :
Mary Kitson, who has applied for permission to
appear in the part of Portia before the Supreme
Court Bench, graduated from our Uni., and will be
Adelaide's first lady lawyer. She is daughter of one of
our best-known detectives.
The untiring bird-champion, Capt. S. A. White, is
bewailing an instance of destruction of white cranes
at Victor Harbor that would discredit a Hun. The
“sportsmen” apparently didn't even want the plum-
age of the birds, but just slaughtered them on the
principle that one thing is as good to shoot as
another.
The aeroplane which Mrs. H. Bickford gave to the
Defence Department is doing good work over Pales-
tine. An Australian D.S.O. is using it. Another
pilot in the same lot is a V.C., and others have
gained the M.C.
Ex-Attorney-General Lance-corporal Vaughan is to
be farewelled by the Leg. Council on Monday.
The carnation and sweet-pea exhibition (growing
flowers, not cut ones) took Lady Galway to Kensing-
ton Gardens on Tuesday. Next day she chaperoned
his Ex. to Loxton Agricultural Show. Loxton is a
garden which until a few years ago we thought was
a hopeless sand-waste.
Talking about the record made by 70-year-old
Airs. .Tagoe, of Unlev —more than 1000 Red Cross
garments of various kinds —here's another, but of a
different kind. The Jolley brothers, who own the
boat sheds on the Torrens, hold it. Between them
they have fished 150 people out of the lake in the
last 30 years or so, and their total rewards amount
to £ 5 ss. and a Humane Society certificate!
The offer of the Bowmans’ station on the Murray
Lakes, made to the Repatriation Committee, has been
turned down. George V. and his brother Albert
Victor put in a spell at the place when they were in
Australia in ISBO.
What with maritime strikes and unfinished railway
lines Westralia is as inaccessible to the rest of Aus-
tralia as Verdun is to the Germans. After hanging
about doing nothing for nearly a week, the Marie
Tempest co. tucked itself into Thursday's express
and went back to Melbourne. Some desperate travel-
lers have gone on to W.A. by motor —three motors,
carrying 10 passengers, with Francis Birtles in com-
mand. Two of the party are women, and they have
a 10 days’ trip ahead of them.
The death of Airs. Crowley last month wrote finis
to an episode which the Railway Department won’t
forget in a hurry. In 1898 the lady’s son, a railway
employee, was accidentally killed in the course of his
duty, and she applied, through her solicitor, for
£lOO compensation. That was before the days of
workmen’s compensation, and a cheeseparing admin-
istration refused to corridor it. But the gent, one
was persistent, and eventually the Commissioner
offered £5O. He was urged to split the difference
and make it £75, the plea being that Mrs. Crowley
was an invalid and on reliable medical testimony
could live only three months. Departmental in-
quiries confirmed this, and the lawyer was then
rushed with an offer of £1 per week for life. This
was accepted, and then the dame declined to die
until the other day—l 9 years afterwards.
An English V.A.D.. Miss Edith Lockyer,
of Southampton, is to marry Basil Collins.
D C.M.. son of the late Ernest Collins, of
Melbourne.
“The Rivals” will be played for a patri-
otic purpose at King’s Theatre on Saturday
afternoon. October 27. Mrs. Sellheim k
organising, and Bert Bailey and Jules Grant
have handed over the theatre free. Th
repatriation fund for blind soldiers is ti!!
chief object.
The best people are dashing to congratu-
late Dolly, of the handsome Back sisters
She has consented to make a Mr. Doyle of
Sydney, happy.
Deane, private secretary to the Prime Min
ister, is seeing to his own affairs while the
boss is taking a holiday. He is billed to
marry, on October IG, Ruth, daughter of th«
Herbert Mannings.
Marie Tempest boxed at the Theatre
Royal on Saturday night to watch Kathlene
Macdonell in “L’Aiglon.” Marie muffled
all but her red head in a huge, fur-collared
coat. Graham Browne, in attendance, got
a good welcome from ..he stalled flappers
Kathlene makes a slender little Eaglet hi
her white and scarlet uniform, with boyishly
sli .1 white silk legs. Her red hair looks
well plastered to her head.
Mrs. Tom Ledingham gave a wonderful
gilt Louis-the-Something box, covered with
eupids and butterflies, to Mrs. George Fair-
bairn to raffle at the Dunraven fete. George
Milne, of Adelaide, who was visiting here
and got bailed up by pretty girls till his
pockets were full of raffle-tickets, now finds
he is the owner of it. He deserved'the luck.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
V.
%
?v
>-
iT;
no
r»< «
Jl
W
4l
«/
»
St
<4.
rS
Nv
w
<s
vT
a
K
a-
wt\
is
*C
r
cv
srjl
«v
t&9
(O
/r
V
<&
A'
*jir*
r?*
‘wv'/.
Vet $> -
# o 4&'‘Cis
v; ; . .- 4:
#> ’*# J
v.
«?-- 3
y
h
V*
v^v
I
/'
f/
/
A*
■fiT#
»/
>/
>•>
7#
-O
//
/T'
r$
%
r?
r
r>
*r+
*2?
«
<x
r*
i
■/,
rj
'JT4V
PR
O/.'-S
y
-y
A
y
y
7a
o
ys/
/
x>
ST<5
f}.
<4
• r
<3 £««;>*
«‘ Look before you leap.’ ”
‘‘Yes! Always look for the‘Johnnie Walker’label
on the bottle before you leap to the conclusion
that you have got the best whisky. 1
• ‘ C • '' ’
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


A GOOD HAIR TONIC.
An excellent hair tonic that is invaluable
for keeping the scalp in a healthy condition,
destroying dandruff and making the hair
grow, is made by dissolving ;1 dram Menthol
Crystals in 3 ounces Bay Rum and then
adding 1 ounce Lavona da Composee. Let
it stand for half an hour and it is then ready
for use. Rubbed well into the scalp with the
fingertips ’once or twice a day this tonic
will be found to be very beneficial, scalp
itching and irritation disappearing almost
immediately on applying. This prescrip-
tion contains no dye, and can be prepared
by any chemist, or you may procure the
ingredients and mix them yourself at
home.— Advt.
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES —
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
I/O ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO , 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
%
'm'Mi
v/l /■'
a
( f
sSi
13
The TOP-NOTCH "Scotch
X
V> <l*o if
Am
1 1
£
f <-
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
*** • *
“11.5. T.”: The first big oven we New
Australians had at Cosme (Paraguay) was made by
simply scooping out an ants’ nest and plastering
over any cracks where the smoke came through
unduly. It was made within an hour or two of
our pitching camp, and when I left the settlement,
two years’ later, it was still going strong. By
the same token the galley fire, lighted on that first
day in drizzling rain (the galley was built over it
afterwards), was still burning when I left. It had
not been allowed to go out once. Banked ashes
kept the coals alive at night. Matches were
matches in those dajs—five centavos a box, and
nary a spare centavo among the lot of us. We
always had plenty of tobacco; but tobacco was
bought at a penny a pound. After the first six months
we had our own home-grown. But to strike a
match to light a pipe or cigar was an unknown
atrocity. Men carried firesticks or coals on bits of
bark, and made fires where they worked, and at
night-time the mosquito “smoke” of cowdung or
the tent lamp, made out of a bottle with a bit of
twisted cotton for a wick, was set going from
the galley. About the only time 1 Can recall
seeing a match struck In Cosine was after a day
spent in water up to lily neck, trying to find a
fordable passage through an unfordable swamp.
Hilly Lalle spent that da\ r with me. We struggled
to shore just as the sun set, with the swamp and
a good many miles of monte between us and camp.
Billy extracted a box of “fdsfores” from the crown
of bis bat and, if we were mighty empty inside,
we soon had our clothes dry and our outsides
warmer.
“English Naturalist”: “O’Regan” iB.
20/9/’l7) has the strength of it over that net-
spinning spider. ’Struth, he’s an unbelieving bloke,
asking if it's a leg-pull. When me and a Pata-
gonian naturalist was up at the headwaters of the
Fly River collecting giant fleas off the mountain
dugong for Rothschild, we used them same spiders
to spin the dugong nets for us. Real hard yakker
it was, too. And not too safe. We'd hunt round
till we found two of them spiders on trees at the
edge of a clearing. Then we’d entice them into
position with a skinned wallaby on a long pole, and
directly we had ’em where we wanted them, me and
the Patagonian bloke would show ourselves. Them
spiders would take after us, and we’d sprint across
the clearing, dodge round a tree and come back,
crossin' each other’s tracks till we got the net
nicely laid out in about 3ft. meshes. Then the
spiders would be a bit tired, and we’d drop half a
wallaby, and they’d stop for tucker while we
cleared. Next day we’d come back when the web
bad dried properly and shoot the spiders with Win-
chesters. We used the loose ends of web for leg-
ropin’ the fleas what we got off the dugongs. One
night the Patagonian bloke got shirk on the rum
we ’ad to put the. fleas in, and went to sleep in
amongst a lot we had tethered ready for killin'.
They ’ad ’em ct in the morning, and I couldn't
never get another mate quick enough on his feet.
“Pick”: “11.Y.E.” (B. 00/'S/T7) declares
that a nesting- plover whose selling has been
discovered will carry away the eggs' in her
1 e.ik. If he measures the diameter of the egg
and tlie width to which the bird can open its face
he will discover that the performance is an impos-
sibility. The hen does shift her setting, frequently,
sometimes to a distance of hundreds of feet, and
sometimes, to escape flood water, to much higher
ground; but the job is done by laboriously rolling
the ovals in the required direction in short relays.
If one of the eggs starts to roll down an incline the
old girl hastily squats in front of it, ahd most
marvellously will she negotiate rocky surfaces and
rough crannies without injury to the fragile shells.
EVEN KNOWN TO BE FATAL.
TOURIST: "low. alt seem big, strong fellows
about here —it must be a very healthy
place.”
BIG BILL: "Oh. it's healthy enough so long's
yer don’t start borrowing yer neighbors'
horses.”
“Leo Lear”: If the American horuhill can
be heard only two miles off he is not fit to be in
the same orchestra as our bittern. A mile off the
bittern sounds just over the road, and on calm
nights I've heard the “boom, boom” three miles
from the swamp he inhabited. The bittern's voice
is not as loud as the hornbili s, tint its carrying
capacities are greater. When you want volume the
large channel-bill cuckoo is about our best spruikor.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
TOMMY OFFICER: “Aw! Er! Of course you come from the Antipodes?”
BILLJIM PRIVATE: "No, sir! Ere come to the Antipodes.”
T.O.: "Aw! You misunderstand me, you know. I mean you're come from down under.”
B.P.: “Wrong again, sir. I come from up over.”
“Billy T.”: This time it is not a Scotch-
man. His name was Dodge, and he lived in the
Western District (Vie.). He was justly celebrated
far and wide as the most frugal man in ihe six
States. He was the sort of man who would spend
Ids Sunday afternoon netting grasshoppers to save
up for his hens. One morning Dodge was found just
alter daylight, crossing the new road below
Wheeland's. The peculi-
arity of the crossing lay
not in the time and place
but in the fact that Dodge
was doing it on his
stomach. In fact, Dodge
had a fractured leg. a cut
head and several other in-
juries, sustained from the
rebound of a tree he had
felled the evening before.
He had spent the whole
night crawling home.
Early in the course of
that long, toilsome and
agonising creep Dodge
must have passed within
a hundred yards of
Dunstan’s hotel, advertised
to provide excellent ac-
commodation for man and
beast. When found he
was about a quarter of a
mile from his own home,
but almost all out. They
took him up and tended
him. The doctor at the
hospital at Hamilton held
it incredible that a man
in the state Dodge was in
could have made such a
journey. “Why in the
name of Heaven didn’t
you make for the hotel ?”
lip asked. Dodge turned a paler grey on his pillows.
“Dunstan's charges is five bob for bed ’ll’ breakfast,”
lie explained simply.
* * * «
“Billy Blue" : The earliest mention of
damper will be found in the second volume of Dr.
Peter Cunningham's “Two Years in X. S. Wales:
1825-6, in which he says: “The farm men usually
make their flour into flat cakes, which they call
damper, and cook them in the ashes.” It was John
D. Lang who suggested in a footnote to “Cooks-
land, page 122. that the name originated with
Dampier the navigator. The late Archbishop W. B.
I llathome in his autobiography described clamper
as “being a heavy, unleavened cake baked in the
ashes, and so called from the damp it puts on your
digestion.”
"Mat”: At Gosford (N.SAY.) last year I
killed a death-adder which measured a shade over
oOin. tor about 14in. of its length it was Gin. in
circumference.
“Ornis”.: The white mutton-bird referred
to by “Wart” (B. 6/9,/'l7) is in my possession, a
gift from Captain Tom Ilolyman. It has for com-
pany an almost albino flame-breasted robin from the
Great Lake- and a ditto rosella parrakeet from Oat-
lands. Walter Rothschild, of Tring (Eng.), has a
wonderful collection of albino birds and animals
in his museum, which t have seen. 11c is always on
the lookout for color freaks in the animal world and
will pay a good price for specimens. But lie won't
get mine.
“Larrikin”: I was travelling with cattle
on Cooper’s Creek in the ’seventies, and armies of
rats were then coming south from the flooded country.
We were in their company for two days and nights,
and as near as we could tell they had a spread of
about eight miles. They made pads like sheep
through the Flinders grass and kept the cattle on
the move all night. They squealed horribly as they
were trampled down. Our saddles, girths and stirrup-
leathers got chewed badly. I was using my flash
pair of riding-boots that cost me four cpiid for a
pillow, wrapped in oilskin, but s’help me, the rats
got to the pumps and simply ate their way through
them.
THE SACRED BEAST.
BILL (from the Cow country): "Hey. look
out where yer firing — there's u cow bock
there!”
(Continued on page -4 )
PEACE, BLESSED PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here in the flamin’ thick of things,
With Death across the way, ’n' traps ■
What little Fritz the German flings
Explodin' in yer lunch per'aps,
It ain't all glory for a bloke,
It ain't all corfee /ot and stoo,
Nor wavin’ banners in the smoke,
Or practisin’ the bay*net stroke—
We has our little troubles, too !
Here’s Trigger Itibb bin seein’ red
’N’ raisin’ Cain because he had,
Back in the caverns iv his ’ead,
A ’oiler tooth run ravin’ mad.
Bore Trigger up ’n’ down the trench
Was jiggin' like a blithered loon,
’N’ every time she give a wrench
Von orter seen the beggar blench,
You erter ’eard him play a toon.
The sullen shells was pawin’ blind,
A-feelin’ for us grim as sin,
While now ’n’ then we'd likely find
A dizzy bomb come limpin’ in.
Bi t Trigger simply let 'er sizz.
He ’ardlv begged to be excused.
Tins was no damn concern of his.
Ho twined a muffler round his phiz.
’X' fearful was the words he used.
Lest we be gettin’ eock-a-whoop
Ole ’Acs tries out his box of tricks.
His bullets all around the coop
Is peckin’ like a million chicks.
But Trigger when they barks his snout
Don’t sniff at it. lie won’t confess
They’re on the earth—ignores the clout,
’X’ makes the same old song about
11 is brinmrin' mug of bitterness.
They raided us there in the mud
One day afore the dead sun rose.
Me oath, the mess of stuff and blood
Would give a slaughterman the joes!
And when the scrap is past and done,
Where’s Trigger Ribb? The noble youth
Has got his bay'net in a Hun,
While down his checks the salt tears run.
Scz he to me: “Gorbli’—this tooth!”
A shell hoist Trigger in a tree.
We found him motherin’ his jor.
“If this ache's goin' on,” sez he,
“So 'elp me, it'll spoil the war!”
Then ten got at him in a clump.
They yanked him open anyhow,
Wound copper wire around the stump,
Yo-heave-ho! Give his nibs a dump,
’X’ there that tooth is hang in’ now.
That afternoon it’s merry ’ell:
Grenades is ownin' by the peck ;
A big gun times us true ’n’ well.
And, oh! we gets it in the neck.
They lick out flames what reach a mile,
The drip of lead will never cease.
But Trigger’s pottin’ all the while ;
He sports a fond ’n’ foolish smile—
“ Thank Gold,” he sez, “a bit of peace!”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Men’s ‘"Orient” Pyjamas
Made by David Jones*.
I'iilß
7 s
UMI
1
T 1
imiffl
mikimmm.
■ raSH
Hi
1
♦ M
' : 1
d«
1 m lIRJI
il'W
&
HX
• *' . jK® V
\w?
M>;a
aw?
Six Reasons vhyYm should tuy
Orient’ now *
7 16
1. They are made in Australia by David Jones’.
2. Cut from a strongly-woven Ceylonette that has proved exceptionally
durable in wear and wash.
•°>. Of special soft finish that ensures comfort and does not irritate
the most sensitive skin.
4. Cut full —in no wise skimped—fitting well to shoulders and allow-
ing freedom of movement throughout the body.
5. With all confidence we claim them to be the best Fyjama value
in Sydney to-day.
G. As soon as the present stock of material is finished we will be
compelled to raise the price to 10/G, as the increase on all new
shipments is so great.
IFe Pay the Carriage.
MvTD JONES'LTD.
OPP.
G.PO.
SYDNEY.
Leviathan
Tailoring
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALCG,
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
MELBOURNE.
is decidedly of the better
class.
Never do we send out
a suit without first being
sure that it possesses
Correct Cut, Perfect Fit,
and Superior Workman-
ship. And this shall con-
tinue to he the policy of
our Great Tailoring
I louse.
Leviathan Suits are
cut by the high e s t-
salaried Cutters —crafts-
men who are qualified to
give shape and style to
every garment they de-
sign—and are tailored
*>y carefully-trained and
long-experienced workers.
Write now for Free
Patterns of our New
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SUITINGS at
63/- 75/- 84/-
901- to 147/-
together with Tape
and Chart.
rv
A MESSAGE from ONE OF SYDNEY’S
PROMINENT BUSINESS WOMEN.
AfADAME PEARCE, who conducts Madame Irenes Salon, Castlereagh Street opposite the Hotel Australia,
Sydney’s* best-known business women. She recently returned from a 10 weeks visit to New Aoi k.
°^ e o-°tnjt tinip (vneral Joffre and Mr. Balfour were being feted, and her principal, Madame Irene, who
During that time _ C League received a card of invitation to a reception given by New York s citizens
£?''?{?? dl.un*ui.h”a Madame Pearce, who accompanied Madame Irene, describee Mr. Balfour as an
to the distinguxsnea g • demeanor suggested an ancestry of generations ot culture. General Joffre she
English gentleman a o with a wonderful, rugged face, and bearing the indelible impress of the Titanic
describes as ayp » . in ’ speeches of the two great men were listened to in a tense silence, and
struggle he has been eg stirred by the fervor and patriotism of their utterances. Madame
the tears were "very c with pride at the eloquence of Mr. Balfour, and her joy at being British-born stirred
new emothm^vf 1 sight of countryman swaying this vast concourse of people of another land.
T , . . c.r,++ino - n„t nn her iourney to America, Madame Pearce was persuaded to try a course of
NERVEATTS it whi h remedy she took a supply with her, their portability appealing to her
HE AN’S NERA J B f or UB e on a journey. That she was well pleased with the result is proven by the tact
* following letter of appreciation
Madame Trene,
Mr. O. W. MEAN, Chemist. «I'P- Hotel Australia, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, — . , , t „„„ ttenn’s Tonic Nerve Nuts. I am pleased to sav I found
A friend o»“J«l«^^ | *J o 'S e t sSl ,, ,y 2. , “During the rush and hurry of my recent to
them so good that I o,llml Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts of incalculable value, and 1 can strongly
weeks visit to New A oik 1 need a tonic to make them equal to the strain of
recommend them to anyone who ma> teel that tnej neeu y ours faithfully,
close attention to business. MADGE PEARCE.
juilding your system up with
HEAN'S TONIC NERVE NUTS
THE RELIABLE HOME REMEDY for
Headaches,
Backache,
Neuralgia,
Insomnia,
Dyspepsia,
Hysteria,
Anaemia,
Palpitation,
Nervous Breakdown,
Mental Depression,
And other Disorders of the Nervous System
x. xT QO i +h builders HEAN’S TOXIC NERVE NUTS are very economical, a box
BESIDES BEING Effective health-bull /. ov ‘ six boxe s for 17/3; smaller size, containing six days treat-
containing twelve days’ treatment costing oi y / » gtocked by your chemist or store, send direct to the manutac-
SS; |(\f? r H b E°AN?CH E iSCASTIWaGH STREET, SV..NKV,
(■?
MADAME MADGE PEARCE.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. He sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chembt, SouthamiLon. — Advt.
MEGGITT’S
<G
A
Nl
\
■
\y '
%
m
Cows Milk Better Linseed Oil Meal
TESTIMONY OF SATISFIED FARMERS.
—“I am using your Linseed Oil Meal for
in producing flesh, milk and butter and
SERIES No. 5.
Mr. J. DAWSON, of Loloma, Wyoming Road, Gosford, writes:
horses, cows ar.d fowls, and find it remarkably good in each case
eggs.”
t; w i,A ' VES ’ Marshall Mount, via Dapto: “I am extremely satisfied with the results after using your
Linseed OH Meal. Send me another 2 tons. The cows are milking better and keep much healthier.”
HOW TO PEED COWS WITH MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
Leave your hay ration as it is and give 31b. Linseed Meal and 31b. of bran per day, soaked or dry.
From all Stores, or full particulars from Agents: Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; R S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Brisbane;
Ha rrison Ramsay Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Wm. Adams&Co , Perth; F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston
and Hobart; Blair Reed & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; or
MLGGITT LTD.,
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Con Drew”: I’m not going to say that
all snake-men aren’t on the level, but I’ll put
you wise to how those enterprising spielers, Big
George and Squeaker Telford (let's say), used to
work the antidote swindle. Their outfit consisted
of two hypodermic syringes, some cabbage-water, a
bag of snakes and a cat. Big George would ascend
the platform outside the tent, and, as he could
mag his way into a strong-room, would soon draw
a crowd. Withdrawing a snake from the bag
(generally a venomous-looking black one whose
fangs had been drawn), he’d make it bite him on
the wrist; then, with many windy boasts as to
how much he was prepared to donate to the local
hospital should the antidote fail, he’d insert the
point of the hypodermic syringe into the “affected”
part and squirt in the cabbage-water. This, of
course, left his audience unmoved. They weren’t
to be gulled so easily as all that, and generally
■told him so. But just here, from out the folds of
the tent, sauntering towards him as if heaven-sent,
a healthy-looking cat would appear, and when George
swooped down upon it, joyfully the crowd sat up
and took notice. “Gentlemen,” he’d exclaim to the
galaxy of mugs that usually attend such exhibitions,
“I'll prove to you that this snake is venomous.”
Bringing the animal towards the serpent he’d make
the latter bite it, and inside three minutes puss
would be as. dead as an average Randwick hurdler.
Once while travelling with a boxing show in
northern What’s that ? Oh! quite easily.
George’s cobber injected the death-juice into
Tabby previous to her appearance. I told you they
had two syringes, didn’t I ?
* * * *
“Melos” : As remedies for sprains, stiff-
ness, - etc., old hands used oils obtained from the
emu, iguana and stingray. The last-named, employed
as a liniment, w T as said to be the best thing on
earth for rheumatism. These oils have remarkable
penetrative powers, especially the ‘go.’s juice. But
it was said that go. oil, when used for a consider-
able time, rotted the bones. Among a great many
warned of this was a rheumy old miner at Cangai
copper-mines. He placed animal bone in a bottle
containing crude gohanna fat and waited six months
to note the result before taking any risks. That
satisfied him. Now, completely cured, he is looking
about for “the blanker that wasted me time.”
* * * *
“Aldebaran” : Comment on medical atten-
tion available for coolie labor on plantations in Fiji
sets me thinking of conditions prevailing in Tonga
some years ago. Every morning found a long line
of patients lined up at the “hospital,-” where two
complaints were recognised, syphilis and indigestion,
and two tubs of medicine were made up to deal with
them. Each poor sinner filled himself a bottle with
a ladle from a tub (size of bottle didn’t matter),
and directions were considered unnecessary. Above
all, nobody wowsed about the syphilitic patient.
“What stage?” was the usual query. When a
sufferer died no blame attached to medicine or
doctor; it was all in the nature of things. The Aus-
tralian outbacker treats his ills much in the same
way, and a dose of Epsom salts is considered good
enough to cure any affliction, bar broken limbs. Still,
the Australian can stand that sort of thing, and the
coolie can't. Serves him right for being a coolie.
ALL THE LUCK.
LADY VISITOR: “So your poor friend teas hilled. Ah, hut never mind—he is at rest!”
BILLJIM (sick of it): “Yus. HE’s at rest.”
THIS WAS A FIGHT.
INFURIATED SECOND: “Box on, Snork, blister yer, box on! None o' yer bleedin ’ posin'
fer the pictures .”
“Te Whare”: To ‘Tick” (B. G/9/T7),
who doubts if the water-rat is a scarce animal, I
reply that it all depends upon what kind he wants.
The golden water-rat is rare, but the dark brown or
black variety, with ringed tail, is not. The com-
mon bush-rat, like the sewer aristocrat, only bigger,
is a good diver and swimmer. The golden fellow
may prig fish occasionally, but I've found his diet
to consist chiefly of fresh-water mussels —he takes a
header and brings his catch ashore. Piles of
scooped-out mussel shells on river-banks attest his
presence; but it is only in secluded places, as a
rule, that they appear. The ring-tailed rat, a much
larger beast, is fairly common about the South Coast
salt lakes of N. S. Wales. It is the bush-rat and his
Norway or sewer cousin that does so much damage
about barns and granaries, while shy brother bandi-
coot occasionally makes havoc among bulbous plants
in gardens, and is most difficult to trap.
“Mat” : I join in a duet with “May D.,”
who asserts (B. 13/9/’l7) that the padymelon will
thrive in captivity. One of these dapper little fel-
lows has been kept for many years at Burwood
(N.S.W.), and ’twoulcl be hard to find a more
sociable companion. His fondness for chums is
shown in the ripping time he enjoys with a fox-
terrier and a couple of cats, while with children he
is just as friendly. The pactymelon needs playmates
and when deprived of them he has pegged out. In
conclusion, gentlemen and others, I have pleasure in
proposing “That Mr. Padymelon is the most intellec-
tual of our marsupials.”
* * * *
“L.M.A.” : At last I have heard the lark,
the cuckoo and the nightingale, and I reckon that
our home birds win on points. The nightingale's
song is very beautiful, but our own old maggies and
some of the reed-warblers and wild canaries can do
as well. As for the English cuckoo, the Australian
bellbird can lose it. On some notes the cuckoo
reminds me of the mopoke. I can detect no differ-
ence between the lark here and its cousin I left
behind me; but we’ve got winners in the stockwhip-
bird, the kookaburra, the curlews, the storm-birds,
willie wagtails and dozens of others which I'd give
a bit to hear now r .
“Jimmar” : Thus Randolph Bedford in a
recent Bulletin : “Hoppy yabbered like those
raucous jays, the leather-heads, or, as bushmen call
them, the twelve apostles.” He ought to know that
the leather-heads are not related nor do they bear
the slightest resemblance to the twelve apostles.
The leather-head may belong to the jays, but the
apostles do not. The leather-head’s diet is mostly
fruit, and he frequents the highest available tree,
whereas the apostle hops sedately along the ground
or in the low scrub and bushes eating insects. The
leather-head is good to eat, the apostle is not. That’s
only a few of the differences.
“8.H.” ; Re the water-finder’s attempts
to ascertain not merely the presence but also the
depth of an underground stream. This is the method
adopted by IV. A. Deane, district surveyor at Graf-
ton (N.S.W.). Having located a stream and found
its general direction, he stands on the edge and
walks away at right-angles, holding the rod. The
distance from the point where the mysterious work-
ing ceases back to the edge of the stream is the
depth. It is the radius of a circle, of which the
observer above the edge of the stream, on the
earth’s surface, is the centre.
* * * ,
“Lance-Jack”: When Hill GO and Messines
Ridge went skywards, several army corps of rats
went that way, too. They were the most educated
lodents it has been my bad luck to meet. Rations
were not safe even when suspended from wires
strung across the dug-out roof. One night, hearing
a peculiar noise, I peeped ever the parapet, and
there were four rats round a bully tin. Three were
holding it down and the other beggar v T as turning
the key.
“Paul Tardent”: “Larrikin” questions (B.
9/8/’l7) the Burenda shearing tallies I previously
quoted, and gives details which no doubt are quite
correct, but they must refer to a different day’s
work. These were the figures for the day that I
referred to: Jim Power, 262 ; Esau Searle, 247 ; W.
226; J t , Doyle, 218; T.- Creedy, 207; W.
Sinclair, 204 ; Joe Carlish, 203; A. Creedy, 200;
J. Perkins, 199; D. Hogan, 226 ; J. Phillips, p.
Power, 210; Jack Power, 221; Tim O’Connor, 196.
Emil Brown was on the board when these tallies
were cut and should be able to settle the argument.
As for myself—well, with a slow old table mate, I
must have rolled between 1500 and 2000 fleeces that
day.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Wandering around
the dilapidated and grass-grown city of Asuncion
(Paraguay) I saw the tops of some Australian gums
waving above the tropical vegetation which chokes
every garden and vacant lot in that place of dirt,
degeneration and decay. The sight was like unto
the shadow of a long beer in a thirsty land as I
bore down on that bit of Australia. The trees stood
in a fine large garden, and at the front entrance
the first thing that caught my eye were a couple of
gaudy Oriental kiosks nestling in the scrub and
over the arched gateway was the legend:—
JAPANESE GARDENS.
Bring Your Lady Friends.
• * * *
“Beloh” ; I knew the sacred white ibis on
the Fitzroy, Kimberley (W.A.), but never found
them nesting. As a rule, southern and eastern
Russia and Manchuria are their honeymoon quarters.
LIZZIE HAD NOTICED THINGS.
SENIOR CADET : “Dad says I can go to the
war when I'm eighteen — that will he six
months."
JIGGI LIZZIE : “S'pose you bin get married,
Henry, leave it behind wife and farnbly,
like eberybody else, eh?"
“Toma Hauk” : There were a pair of red-
bills on the wing and I fired. They both dropped
lightly to the ground and began to make off in
different directions. I took after the one closest to
me, and when 1 came up with it I found it stretched
out, as if shot. When I was within 2yds. of it, how-
ever, it made off. I immediately looked for the
other bird and saw it hobbling along, 50vds. off. I
found that it had been shot through the wing, and if
its mate had not led me away to give the casualty a
chance to escape I'll chew’ my hat. That was the
last redbill I ever shot.
A CHILD’S SONG OF HAPPINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cows Coivs!
Each of ’em big ez a two-storey house!
I p in the mornin’ since ha’ pars’ three,
An' me that tired ’n’ gorn in the Knee.
The tin won't stand where ttie teat ought to bo
Et’s nothin’ ’cept milk ’n’ mud for me.
Milk ’n’ mud! Oh, it’s got me mad
’N’ p’raps a jolt on the jaw from Dad
Because I ain’t done, to the tick, for school
Where I hangs orl day like dead on a stool;
The sums on the board are of milk ’n’ of cows
Of cows, ’n’ of cows, ’n’ of thousands of cows;
The teacher ’e rouses: “You blanky young cows!”
It’s a cow to be there, jus’ thinking of cows,
Each 'of ’em big cz a two-storey house,
Waitin’ their turn when our lessons are done
And then, when it’s bedtime at last, where’s the fun.
If, warmed by a cowhide, you drearily drowse,
Dreaming you haven’t done milking the cows?
VICTORIA.
HUGH McCRAE.


A*;
nm
, rfi:
m
:
m
v<3o»mS .. <*K&aSS>*|i
@B% .- £ rIOSW&JI
Hc|*l ' ti '<* |
- .
s^assiyi
US
i*vtG
X
:
■■-
iiis
1 :~v s:
•■*•)■
issils
:f * ••>
m
*4f
* ••
lH#
+■!' -
r.'S"
■
- :
gflfS>
«HP»!
- >5
YOU
can't kink


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That maKes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taKen at the commencement of a Cold; but the
class cf case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to maKe any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE —a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
I.^
/.Mi
tv
K
w
■
From all CHKMISTS and STORES
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney. N.S W. Wellington, N.Z.
13.
“II.O.” : Sty.-ingc how similar are the con-
ceptions of a prostitute held by church and
stage! The average dramatist either sends
his frail heroine coughing down the broad
path that leadeth to consumption, like Cam-
ille. or makes her yearn for stodgy social
acquaintances, as Paula Tanqueray does.
Always their daughters of joy are supremely
miserable, this being the sop they throw to
conventional morality as an excuse for mak-
ing heroines of such creatures. Miriam, the
street-walker in "Outcast,” is the latest miser-
able sinner to be brought under Melbourne’s
notice, and she seems dolefully unconvinc-
ing compared with her cheerful sister in
“Fanny’s First Play.” Shaw, not being an
average dramatist, anxious to point a bogus
moral, introduced us to a pavement nymph
who had neither a corf nor aspirations for a
higher life. Miserable Miriam makes sin as
unallnring as a teetotal wake. She is able
to quote Byron and get an admirer to take
her to Monte Carlo; yet, as she’s an unfor-
tunate. rashly importunate, she comes on
wearing a low-comedy hat, with a huge red
feather that would be considered “bad taste"
by a tart in a pickle factory. That hat cer-
tainly would not be worn by any of the
better-class Collins-street practitioners; and
e'*en in Little Lon. it would be an object for
ribald mirth.
“J.F.11.” (London): Grand old Sarah
Bernhardt proclaims her complete recovery
and her determination to enter soon on a big
tour, which will embrace Hawaii, Australia,
Maoriland. India, China and Japan. She
says she was sustained throughout her recent
critical illness by the conviction that she was
destined to live until Germany and Kaiser
Bill were pulverised ; and the sight of the
Stars and Stripes floating by the side of the
standards of Britain and France as she
drove for the first time after her convales-
cence through the streets of New York made
her 40 years younger, she declares.
“T. 0.1.”: “Penden” (B. 27/9/T7) is in
error in stating that Edward Gladstone
became the popular Victorian Horatio after
Hope’s death. The former played the part
to Brooke. Warner and other Hamlets before
the arrival of Barry Sullivan. The latter
took Hope in hand ; he had made his first
successes in Shakspearean “foreign parts,
such as the Welsh parson. Hope was a
consumptive, and at Sullivan’s exuense was
sent on a voyage to the Cape or Mauritius,
and died on the voyage.
Gertie Millar, of the post-card teeth, may
follow Marie Tempest off the musical-comedy
stage on to the “regular.” At a revival in
London of Pinero’s old “Trelawny of the
Wells.” her Imogen Parrott was muck
praised. It was' a tremendous cast: Won
Boueieault and Irene Vanbrugh in their
original parts, the aged Genevieve Mard.
Australia’s young friend Martin Lewis. Pa
Manner, Gladys Cooper, Hilda Trevelyan—
and so on all round.
Carrono’s daughter, Teresita. has given her
first pianoforte recital in London. The
girl has none of her mother’s mas-
culine force at the musical box, but is a
pleasing artist of the feminine type. In fact,
one critic wrote of Teresita that “her plaj"
ing- somehow suggests a lazy disposition.
W. B. Coleman, jun., who was assistant-
scenic artist to his father at Melbourne
Majesty’s, lias a military billet in Englan
these times. AVlien he went to France witn
the Australian forces young Coleman
set to make sketches for headquarters, an
his work got him a mention in despatches
when he afterwards went to Egypt. Lh s
week lie was given a staff appointment at a
cavalry barracks.
According to N’Yarlc Dramatic Mirror
Do Wolf Hopper, owner of one of the big
gest theatrical reputations in Yankeelan .
is thinking over an offer to visit Austia
and present his Gilbert and Sullivan repei
toire of nine operas.
Some well-known performers are helping
in connection with a pageant, “Advance
Australasia,” due for London production 1
October, in aid of the Anzac Buffet. Gso
Asche will be “producer,” Australia is to *
represented bv Alice Crawford, the
beauty; Liliah McCarthy plays
Britain; Ada Crossley will be \lctol •
Marie Lolir find Madge Titheradge will na
parts, and Ivy Shilling is arranging
dances.
“0.K.”: “J.F.H.” says old Sam PWjP?
died dressed as Cardinal Wolsey, _
declaiming “A lung farewell to all my S ie ‘!
ness,” Quite wrong. Samuel Phelps,
most retiring of citizens off the stage. c *
during insensibility at his cottage in LPP'®
Forest (near London) after a long retl
raent from the boards, and was buried 1
his town house. I happened to be hv s
next door at the time.
Business, Robbery, etc
From somewhere in the North Sea :
Now that the Commonwealth is looking round for
new industries, why not whale hunting? Whales
can be turned into oil, fertiliser and food meat, and
the skin and bones are valuable. The meat is some-
what like horseflesh in taste and looks. I’ve tried
both, and find them coarse in fibre, dark in color,
but not too hard. There are 2 4 whaling company
stocks dealt in on the Sandefjord Stock Exchange,
Norway. Many of the cos. have whalers in the
Southern Pacific and Indian Oceans, and many whales
are caught on the coasts of Australia, Tasmania and
Maoriland. The cos. bearing Australian names and
operating around Australasia are the Australian,
Fremantle, Spermacet, South Pacific and West Aus-
tralia. The dividends of the 24 companies range
from 10 p.e. to 200 p.c., the 200 p.c. being paid
by the Bas Whaling Co. operating near West Africa.
All the shares of these whaling cos. stand at pre-
miums of’ three and four times their nominal value.
There are, besides, many whaling cos. unlisted, but
said to be paying divs. from 124 p.c. to ISO p.c.
Three or four stations could be established on the
Australian coast, I gather, for about £50,000 spent
upon modern whaling vessels. Probably this isn’t
the best time to either buy or build ships; but, all
the same, it makes one think that one’s own conn-
fry isn’t as wide-awake as it ought to be when one
has to drop into Norway to discover that there’s an
industry on the Australian coast which paid to these
foreigners dividends ranging from 10 p.c. to 60 p.e.
on their operations in 1915.
IT * * V *
“De Oriel": A syndicate of Melbourne
estate-agents has found another use for the
cinematograph. Arrangements have been
made to "take” large properties requiring
tenants or buyers, and screen them before
prospective customers at their own homes or
anywhere handy. This saves them long jour-
neys and much expense. Finley, one of Aus-
tralia’s best-known camefa men, has been
secured to make a “do” of the spec.
“D.F." : .So far the little Speck’s share in
the business has been mostly confined to
collecting the seeds of blue-gum and wattle
and selling them to people in America and
other places to people who had the sense to
appreciate these things more than Austra-
lians do. But Arthur Yates and Co., of
Sydney, are trying to find out whether seeds
—and especially seeds that formerly came
from Germany— cannot be grown profitably
in Tasmania. They have bought 100 acres
at Macquarie -Plains and are starting to
grow all the garden and farm seeds, from
pansies (70 kinds of them) to cabbages and
mangolds. The firm has also put some of
the local men on to this side-line on their
own farms. The Yateses are no ’prentices
at the business (there’s a hard-headed father
and two sous in it). They have a fine
nursery at Exeter, oil the N. S. Wales
Southern line, as well as one at Concord,
handier to Sydney ; and there isn’t much in
the way of seed-cleaning machinery that
isn’t installed in the Sussex-street ware-
house.
* * * *
“11.P.W.” ; Re “K.K.” and his chunk of
oak from Old London Bridge (B. 20/9/’l7).
I have a bit of elm from a foundation pile
of Winchester Cathedral, which was driven
in I20(>, and dug up again in 19015, when the
Cathedral was restored. It is as sound as
a bell, after 700 years in water-bearing
gravel. The Cathedral authorities raised an
liouest penny for the restoration funds by
selling small articles made of the ancient
wood, stamped with the Dean’s signature as
a guarantee of genuineness.
Lately a business man in Melbourne came
upon a pavement artist at work, one of
whose drawings struck him as just the thing
for a label he was then in need of. He spoke
to the artist. “Could you let me have a
copy of that?” lie asked. The pavement
Raphael thought he might. “I will give you
two guineas for it,” said Business Man, “if
you will deliver it at my office before noon on
Saturday.” Baphael accepted the contract,
and on Saturday morning put in an appear-
ance. “It’s about that drorin’,” he said.
“Well, where is it? - ’ asked the art patron.
"It’s out on the truck.” Baphael replied.
“Well, bring it in.” Baphael struggled into
the office a few minutes later, staggering
under the burden of an 8- x 10-inch drawing
executed oh a flagstone!
“Te Babarantiko”: In addition to the
transport on China’s rivers mentioned b.\
“Feng Sinii” in a recent Buu.etix, I re-
member a “launch" which made regular flips
mi the Yang-tse-Kiang. A number ot coolies
seated side by side in the "engine-room
turnul a long crank. The craft made fair
headway, too. Also, there was the three-oar
one-man sampan dodging with remarkable
celerity among the river traffic. >' itli his
hands the pig-tailed boatman industriously
worked the lanyard of the big. balanced
sculling oar over the stern, and dexterously
manipulated a pair of oars with his feet.
* * *
“Bill": The bogus charity fete is another
nasty trick frequently played on Billjim in
the Big Fog. Men on leave, wounded or
otherwise, are induced to buy tickets for
chivoos whose whereabouts they are never
able to find. The matron of a Bed Cross
hospital lately received a visit from a woman
who told her of a wounded soldiers’ enter-
tainment which was being arranged in a
town five miles distant. The matron, who
happens to have means, bought tickets for
as many of the men and staff as she
judged would he able to go. Not until she
went into the town to make arrangements
for getting the men to the entertainment did
she discover that the ticket-selling lady had
visited every military hospital in the dis-
trict; but the entertainment existed only
in her imagination.
* * * *
South Aus. is having one more illustra-
tion of the danger of messing about with
tidal waters. One of the various channels
by which the Murray gets to the sea
has been blocked by Government. This
Mundoo passage was the shortest, and salt
water worked up it in drought times, to the
disadvantage of the country around. Now
the Murray is coming down in a flood which
threatens every day to touch the record of
1890. and the barrage holds up water which
threatens to submerge cultivated land. “A
stick of dynamite” was freely recommended
in Parliament, and public opinion is likely
to force the removal of the bar, a flood-gate
being put in its place.
# * * *
“Good Australian” from California :
The business of (a lining or preserving surplus
food products has developed enormously in the
U.S.A. during the war. The price of orchard land
depends on its distance from a cannery, and nothing
is more significant than that. To the production of
fish, melt,, milk, flour, fruit and vegetables—in fait,
of all foodstuffs—a cannery is the auxiliary without
which nobody begins to produce. There is no such
thing as a glut of any food or farm product in Cali-
fornia. All that is not sold fresh is canned or
tinned while fresh. Why is it that at home in Aus-
tralia we have not fostered the same industry? It
is not hard to establish. An export duty on tin, the
establishment of a tin-plate factory or two, a few
tariff alterations on foreign tinned goods, and,
behold, the door is opened for the building of can-
neries everywhere, in which local unskilled labor
could work to save untold quantities of fruit and
vegetables from rotting on the ground ! Cold-storage
plants are useful for the big growers and orchard-
ists, but the cannery is essential to the business and
welfare of the small orehardist and vegetable gar-
dener. More vegetables and a wider choice would be
raised if the producer could be sure his surplus
produce would be worth money. The Californian
doesn’t hesitate to admit his indebtedness to Ger-
many, where the authorities have opened municipal
drying plants, and there are communal driers in every
small town and village to collect from the markets
all unsold vegetables and fruit and cure them at a
small cost for future use. More than that, vege-
table dry-kilps on wheels were sent through the rural
districts, and the farmers taught, to dry every spare
turnip, apple, beet, bean, cherry, pumpkin, plum
and grape.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Apropos the production of mnn-
ganese steel and high-grade steel castings
by Bmvolt’s in Melbourne, the case of (’has.
Bnwolt has an interest because of his
ancestry. The man is typically Australian
in style and sentiment, hut his old father
came from Germany to S. Australia to settle
on the land long ago. The thoroughness and
perseverance of the steel-maker are pro-
bably German, yet he reckons that the best
of workmanship in machinery can he pro-
duced by the British race, and that no
craftsman is better than the Australian who
gives his mind to the job. Bnwolt began to
give Ins mind to the engineering job only
1 i years ago, when he started business at
Wangaratta, and Chris Watson and
Tewksbury gave him an order for bucket
dredges. The big works at Richmond came
10 wars later, and the tin dredges they have
sent to the Malay Peninsula have simply
out-distanced those of Dutch make which
were first on the job in those parts
“F.C.”: Pimts in sign is is putting a few
pounds into the pockets of small landowners
around Melbourne. Forty years ago there
was n run on these vegetables for shelter
and shade, and lots of fruit-growers, dairy
farmers, etc., planted them round their
paddocks. To-day, imported wood being
scarce, timber yards will send out men and
teams, cut and dress the stems and cart
them to the city, giving the owner £1 per
tree of fair size. They are no loss, anyhow,
as an adult shrub makes but a poor break-
wind and they are mostly superseded by
gums though just at present Cupressus ] a fil-
bert iana is the vogue.
LOVE'S LABOR CAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nine million men have died in the war; of these
over thirty thousand are Australians. It is pointed
out that in most States before tiie war there was
already a preponderance of women. It is now being
vaguely argued that “a modified polygamous condi-
tion'’ will be permitted to men in the near future.
1 stand here in the sweet Spring shine,
And watch her nimble hands at work,
This stout, tall, solid wife of mine
Who never seems disposed to shirk —
She’s up before the sun’s in sight,
And shines till twelve o’clock at night.
It does me good to see the milk
Swift spurting through her fingers strong;
ller skin is not as soft as silk,
Her eves may be a trifle wrong;
But each day gives me more to see
That this is just the mate for me.
We have our little daily rows.
1 mind them not at all. Dear soul,
She has no better with the cows,
And I'm contented, on the whole.
Let foolish bachelors deride —
Fm looking for another bride.
Where can I find the like of May?
One more produce, or e’en a third,
And I will wed them straight away,
And treble then my dairy herd;
For in polygamy exists
True preference to unionists.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
SANCTUARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crowd that rioted in Melbourne the other
night, and in Richmond later, smashed windows in
drapery stores, newspaper offices, confectioners’ shops
booksellers’ and a score of other businesses- but
everywhere one trade was spared.
The drapers’ glass they gladly broke,
They cracked the pastrycook’s,
They smashed that of “the Argus bloke,”
And men who dealt in books.
They knocked the daylight out of dubs
But never one assailed the pubs 1
They smashed three thousand pounds in glass
But. wonderful to tell,
'While all this havoc came to pass
Xo single bottle fell. . . .
Yet men have said with scorn intense
Australians have no reverence!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.
THE RCESOI RUEFUL “HEAVY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I've died many deaths in the cause of Ait,
In dozens of ways I’ve “snuffed it,”
For 'twas always my fate the villain’s part
To play, and I never muffed it ;
I took my gruel in divers forms,
And I made my exit proudly,
For, egad, the heart of the “heavy” warms
To the good gods hissing loudly.
I have raised my hat with the handcuffs on,
And a saucy An revoir said;
To the scaffold, “off,” I’ve-gaily gone
To one of the deaths aforesaid;
I've succumbed to thirst on a lonesome raft
•lust as sails showed on the horizon;
And many a time in the West I've quaffed
The hero’s cup of “p’is'n.”
But the choicest death-scene I recall
Was one never played to order—
I was gouging holes in my prison wall,
And should have been shot by the warder;
But his gun missed fire, the gallery guyed,
The show would have been a fizzle,
If 1 hadn’t committed quick suicide
By swallowing the chisel.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


‘ r ' . * i ‘ *. ' £
0*
raj
m
a
• :
.
W3*
9 '
t \
• • & v „ '- ■*" 5
i 's V -vr?i s i
e»p«~
i?
n
*&»
•' • ' .-V:. ■ ,•
Mm
*
*•;■
Wk
G.E. Design is the combined result of research and experience.
All panels are developed with special reference to the source
required. They are originated and not copied. Each device is
designed by a set of specialists. Purchasers receive the service
of a highly trained corps of switchboard engineers.
G.E. “Standard Unit” panels represent the most advanced
step in switchboard manufacture. These panels meet a great
variety of requirements. They possess the advantages of quantity
manufacture, resulting in low prices and quick shipment.
ILLUSTRATION SHOWS
DIRECT
CURRENT
SWITCHBOARD
OF LARGE CAPACITY,
MANY OF WHICH ARE
IN SUCCESSFUL OPERA-
TION IN AUSTRALIA.
CO
-
\m
m
ow /
0 »
Q
C 3
r.'
t=J
C_3
9
Lssn
&
Cls
Of!
<* 3
Oo
OO
o
A
Wentworth ay Sydney, c? of queen & little collins st Melbourne.
OTHER AGENTS .
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins Si Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S A.) : Unbehaun Si Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS-
NEW ZEALAND: The National^Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullonk & Co. Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver &c Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. '
Gold Earrings, set
with pure double-
cat diamonds,
£3O.
A. Saunders’ five
pure double-cut
diamond-set Ring,
ISct. gold, £3O.
A. Saunders' three
pure double-cut
diamond-set Ring,
18ct. gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set pure double-cut
diamonds, £5. Larger dia-
monds, £O/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
‘double-cut dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. gold,
£7/10/-
t;cv<
A, Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ five
pure double-cut
diamond-set Ring,
18ct. gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
-—0 ® 0 —
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Necklace,
set aquamarines or
tourmalines, 9ct. gold,
£2.
A. Saunders’ single-
stone diamond
circle Brooch,
15ct. gold,
£3/15/-
V
u
w
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Necklace, set
diamonds and pearls,
£lO.
All diamonds, £l5.
DIAMOND MERCHANT.
1 , ~ a
ts>r
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation balance,
9ct. gold throughout, £B/10/-. 15ct. gold throughout,
£l2/10/-. Extra-jewelled movement, £l5.
fis
!
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Lady’s Expanding Wristlet Watch,
jewelled Lever movement, set olivines or pearls,
£l2/10/-, £l5. Set diamonds and rubies, £2O.
All diamonds, £3O, £4O, £5O.
ALL ORDERS POSTED FREE.
SEND FOR LATEST ILLUSTRATED
GIFT BOOK—IT’S FREE.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation
balance, £7/10/-. Extra quality, £B/10/-.
15ct. gold throughout, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Necklace, set
with douhle-eut dia-
monds and pearls,
£B/10/-
All diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saundei s loct. gold
Circle Brooch, set
with six pure double-
cut diamonds,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ diamond
and pearl Necklace,
15ct. gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond-set Ring,
18ct. gold, £75.
1 a a
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut diamond
Hall-hoop Ring,
18ct. gold, £5,
Larger diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
gold cluster drop
Earrings, set with
pure doable-cut
diamonds, £25.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set pure double-cut
diamond, £3/10/-. Larger
diamonds, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£7/10/-
Smaller diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ three
pure double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. gold,
£l2/10/-
i#
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £3/10/-
Jeweller, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
BlMi MJSJI
SMB
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
ON ALL OCCASIONS
when you may require a specially strong antiseptic Soap—for
instance, to protect yourself against mosquitoes and other insects,
or to antiseptically cleanse their bites —use
CALVERTS
20% Carbolic Soap.
Use a light lather only, that is all you need with a Soap like this,
which contains such a large proportion of Carbolic.
Sold by local Chemists and Dealers. Each tablet in metal box.
Makers: F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester, England.
OOKS AT AUSTRALIA’S BIG BOOK STORE
I Will Get You Any Book You Require.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GII’SY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE, BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc.,
with full directions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to Win at Cards,
1/3. Metal-working for 'Amateurs, Soldering. Brazing. Gasfitting, &c., 1/6
posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, 1/6. That Bascal Gustave, 1/-,
posted 1/3. Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, 1/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules
for all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River, 4/-.
Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic, 1/3. Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, 1/-.
The Doctor (Cures for all Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speaking Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly
Gang of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; posted, 1/2. Electricity
Made Simple (new), 5/-. Self-Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
Master. 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ llandybook, 1/6. Complete Book-keep-
ing, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. Parlor Magic, 1/- posted. How McDou-
gall Topped the Score, & Other Verses, 1/3. French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan-
nan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide. 5/6 posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each posted.
Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of FiSe, 2/-. Send a trial order NOW.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and save your cash. Established 25 Years.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1/6 posted. New Tricks
with Carps, 1/3. Sappho, genuine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. DR-
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2/6. Aristotle, d/o.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/6. Practical Palmistry, 1/5. Guide
to Auctioneering, 2/6. Secret History Court of England, 1/6 posted. Lovers
Letter Writer, 1/-. All About Incubators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Ex-
posed, Key to all Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary,
lOd. posted. Tokology, 7/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d., 2/-. How to Read
Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted. Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assistant, 1/6. The Wife s
Handbook', 1/2 posted. Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted. Fruits
of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervous-
ness and Its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700
pages, 1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 16/- post paid (why pay 3 and 4 guineas.)•
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3. Moore s
Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, U/»
posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200 Old-Time Songs (words
and music complete), 1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted 9d.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt,
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent AnywHere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. ___
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).


FLAfO.
v •.
*.VV-
i: ••••
•.V;V.
V-V-.;
VS
: vv\
i:
F-ATF NT OFF I,C E
THE GENUINE CLOTH
MFD. BY GOODALL WORSTED QQj
A cool, loungy suit that's smart —inexpensive—and
durable. That washes like linen and leaves the tub
crisp and fresh as new.
You will find well-made PALM REACH clothes at
most good Men's Wear Shops and Merchant Tailors.
Sav ‘‘XO ! to makeshifts and imitations.
It is PALM BEACH you want. The name is trade-
marked in the U.S. Patent Office and Foreign Countries.
The Label is in every garment made of the Genuine.
In purchasing yardage—be sure you get Palm Beach.
GOODALL WORSTED CO., SANFORD, MAINE, U.S.A.
A. ROHAUT DEPT., Selling Agents, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
MERCHANTS. —For immediate attention, address R. W.
Cameron & Company. Sydney and Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Earnest and most successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire, and the Best Bonus-paying
office in the World.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 i’ITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £80,500,000, Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
Keep the
home Fires
burninq.
*F
■, m if®
WL
m
' 'm.A
m
w
SHAVIN£ STIfl
M M
!>
-. A
Gives a lasting
lather and a
smooth shave
m
m
m
m
Guaranteed
not to dru
on the face
From all Chemists & Stores
Agents:
SWIFT & COMPANY LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney.
ERASMIC Perfumers. LONDON & PARIS.
HUDSON,
;; ■ ■. 1 1 ;
'' '
./•Sl
%
<••• J-
W vV?t- v D «**- --
•-
§§§&p*mcs=
i!0
-
SSf- V->v-
-I,_
-«i-
■us
(sr*Stf«t
2i&@S|
i * r '
The Latest HUDSON SUPER-SIX is a Speedste-
•[[The newest Hudson Super-Six model is a four-passenger Speedster. Because
of its graceful lines, the beauty of the finish, and the wonderful speed it
possesses we think it rightly expresses “ the spirit of youth!’ 1 The coach
is painted rich cobalt blue, and the wheels are in English vermilion. It is
mounted on the same Hudson Super-Six Chassis that has won so many
notable records for power, speed and endurance. r Go to the nearest Hudson
dealer and see this new car.
rca
algety •& Co. Ltd.. 1 5 Bent Street. Sydney,
algety &. Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
ar>e Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
XV. Johnson h. Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
J. Brien, Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address : HUDSONCAR— DETROIT.


THE CAUSE OF INDIGESTION.
Much valuable information may be gleaned
from a somewhat lengthy medical report
just published. For instance, it is made
clear that more than 90 per cent, of all
cases of indigestion, dyspepsia, etc., are due
to the presence of acid in the stomach, and
physicians agree that when this fact is
realised by the public they will be called
upon to treat very few cases of stomach
trouble, and the cause of the trouble —the
acid in the stomach —may readily be over-
come without their aid. An effective pre-
paration for this purpose is said to be tisn-
rated magnesia, and they advise those who
are troubled with almost any form of diges-
tive trouble to obtain a small quantity of
this product from their chemist, and take
half-a-teaspoonful in a little water after
meals, as this will prevent fermentation and
neutralise any acid which may be formed,
thus rendering the food easy of digestion.
Certainly this plan seems preferable to dos-
ing the stomach with drugs.— Advt.
The Backbone of the Leading Picture Theatres in Australasia
(fiaranuMwt
m
m
An organisation that can claim, without the slightest com
punction, that it has been instrumental in raising- ttm
whole standard of the motion-picture industry is thp
organisation which is going to win and hold the confident
of the world s people. Ul,c
T hus, Paramount—which numbers its followers bv the
millions—is an organisation far reaching and miehtv its
service to be found in every portion of the globe. s y ts
Paramount Pictures present the highest type of romanrp
stories chosen from the best masters of the Old World
modern live stories, which grip and hold—and portrayed bv
artists whose charming, humorous, human impersonations
contribute more so than any other agency in raising the
standard of picture art. s e
The question we now
Paramount followers?
ask of you—are you among
the
Patronise theatres showing Paramount. If they are not
being shown ask your theatre manager why.
POLITICAL
POINTS
WOE UPON WOE.
CALLER : "Things are very had in Russia,
aren't they?"
C OCKY: "Cant be worse than they are here.
Old Strorberry's got dry bible, the mice
'as ate the seed wheat, and this 'ere
rain’s makin' a muck of everything."
Applications for the new £20,000,000 war
loan must be in by November 2. Interest
is 4| per cent., and it will be free of Com-
monwealth and State income tax. The
Bulletin cordially disagrees with the latter
provision. But it disagrees because it be-
lieves that the concession is one which the
Commonwealth cannot afford to make;
which means, of course, that, in this paper’s
opinion, the country is offering too much
for this loan. If the loan isn’t rushed it
will only be because the public doesn’t recog-
nise what the concession means. Of course
the usual struggle is being made to rope in
the little man. The concession is worth
something substantial to him. But it is
nothing like what it is worth to the “big”
man. If he is wise he will grab every penny
ofv the loan he can pay for. In the days
ahead income tax will probably be up to ss.
in the £ ; in England it already is as high
as Bs. (id. An investment which is free- from
an income tax of Bs. 6d. in the £ isn’t to be
had every day.
Anstey’s recent address in Melbourne, in
which he approved of strikes that are strikes
and not folded-arm affairs, recalls Big John
Hancock’s exclamation : “Thank God for the
sacred right of revolution!” “And thank
God for the sacred right of hangin’,” replied
that dry old stick, Duncan Gillies, Premier
at the time.
At last the. N.S.W. Government proposes
to take into its own custody all unclaimed
balances in banks and wherever else they
can be located.
German Lutheran schools continue to
flourish in Victoria, despite the strong hint
the spineless Peacock Government received
from S. Australia lately. If the S. Aus-
tralian Government was game to offend the
large local population of Fritzes by shutting
up their hotbeds of alien sentiment, it should
have been good enough for even Peacock to
venture; but that earnest seeker after votes
has ignored the hint thus far. All he did
when the true nature of these educational
mediums first came to light was to forbid
the actual teaching of German patriotism in
German language. The youngsters now learn
their lesson in Australian, which does very
well to go on with. As to the disloyalty of
the districts that support German schools
the evidence is convincing. Every recruiting-
sergeant qualified to speak makes the same
report of failure in the Lutheran-school
zones. But Peacock, who could do something
at home, merely continues to talk about the
“German. Peril” abroad, because that doesn’t
involve him in doing anything.
Oakes, M.L.A., lately asked N. S. Wales
Minister for Labor Beeby to provide in his
new Arbitration Bill that wives of unionists
contemplating strike should have a vote on
the subject as well as their husbands. Well,
why not?
Holman was still in the U.S.A. last week.
It. looks as though, when the long struggle
with the general-strikers started, somebody
wired to Willie: “Let George do it.”
There will be. a scrimmage in the House
of. Reps, when it reassembles in November.
M orks Minister Watt has promised that
the site for Australia’s arsenal shall be con-
sidered and that there shall be room for full
discussion-—which is to say that every vote-
hunter will have an opportunity to show
why the factory should be planted where it
will do his own little constitu-
ency most good. The petty
provincialism of the Win-the-
War Parliament is also shown
by the attempt to keep the
capital site business well for-
ward. The Cabinet would like
to dump Canberra, but a gang
of Ma Staters will not counten-
ance the crime. Chapman is
the leader of the disturbance,
with Catts as seconder. Chasms
divide Chapman and Catts on
most subjects, but when Ma
may miss something they are
two tongues that nag as one.
The municipal authorities of
Melbourne’s outer marine sub-
urbs have strange ideas of the
■ fitness of things. At one of
these places, running out from
a charming beach lined with
neat bathing-boxes, there is a
little pier. At the land end of
it there is a notice: “Smoking
Prohibited on This Pier.” A
regulation forbids the placing
of a bathing-box on the beach
without permission. Also, one
is not permitted to boil a billy ;
and sea-bathing in any but a
specified costume is not allowed.
There are other regulations, too, con-
sidered to be appropriate to the sur-
roundings ; yet bisecting the lovely beach,
with its bathing-boxes and pier, a beauti-
ful stench is suffered to run, naked
and unashamed, down a steep place into the
sea from the villa-lined road above, with all
the highly-perfumed abandon of the Gada-
rene swine.
Melbourne has lately talked much about
establishing baby clinics and done little.
Maoriland now talks less and does more.
Fifty M.L. papers publish weekly a
“Babies’ Column,” supplied by the Society
for the Health of Women and Children, em-
bodying the sort of knowledge which it is
supposed in some foolish quarters that
women acquire instinctively. The society
also trains and maintains a body of nurses
whose job it is to provide prospective
mothers with advice and assistance free of
charge. During 1916-17 11.000 babies were
under the care of the society’s nurses, who
paid 54,000 visits to homes, while 55.956
mothers and babies called on the society.
Maoriland’s infant mortality rate is 59 per
1000. the lowest in Australasia. Victoria’s
is 72 per 1000, the highest in Australasia.
N. S. Wales M's.L.A. showed themselves
alert for a chance of making their marble
good the other night. When six o’clock
pub closing was carried, Parliament House
bar was closed in conformity, which was
good and proper. The other night, however,
Stuart-Robertson formally moved that the
sale of all alcoholic
liquors on premises of
Parliament should
cease. Quite 80 of the
90 in the past have
felt the benefit of a
reviver after a long
sitting, but here was
a rare chance to
please publicans,
wowsers and constitu-
ents, which they
rushed by .voting two
to one for the motion,
thus proclaiming
themselves unfitted to
have ordinary civic
latitude. The majority
was a strange blending
of men with antip-
athies and anxious
to advertise them, and
men with “inclina-
tions” just as anxious
not to uncork them —
in Hansard. As the
refreshment bar is a
joint affair the
M’s.L.C. vote may
avert the threatened
drought.
Unless the legal ad-
visers of S. Aus. Gov-
ernment have handed
it some pretty bad
law, the job of the
complete Prohibition-
ists in any State is
going to be a hard
one. Peake told a de-
putation that to pro-
hibit the importing of
liquor from a neigh-
boring State would be
an anti-Federal action
and therefore impos-
sible. So the first
State to go dry will
simply kill all its own
industries in the beer
or vine-growing or distilling line for the
benefit of its neighbors ; will, in fact, cut off
its own nose without spiting its face to the
value of 2^d.
From a speech by Frank Anstey at an
Unpleasant Sunday Night at the Socialist
Hall (Melb.)
For his part he could never see any good sense in
a strike as the working class conducted it. It was
merely putting one’s head in a bag and going to
sleep. The mere folded-arms policy, and seeing men
come- down and take the places of the strikers, was
an absurdity. He had no objection to a strike that
was a strike, however.
If Anstey means that he has no objection to
civil war, he had better explain how that
would result in the betterrpent of the work-
ers’ cause. Of course, Anstey really means
nothing of the kind. But that doesn’t make
his position any the better. The men and
women to whom he roars need instructing,
not inflaming with illogical suggestions.
Their ignorance is pathetic, and the most
shameful feature of the whole labor-political
position is that, instead of attempting to
banish that ignorance, the Labor “leader”
truckles to it and trades on it—sometimes
to get a vote, sometimes to get a mere round
of cheap applause.
Rival Liberal candidates are beginning to
swarm around Speaker Frank Madden’s seat
in the Vic. Assembly in a manner suggestive
of popular unrest. The latest reply to the
Speaker’s announcement that he is going to
the poll, whatever happens, is that of Fred-
erick Francis, a Malvern councillor, who
says he is, too. Francis is a building con-
tractor and has added to the usual Liberal
platitudes a. few extras, such as preference
for Australian goods in Government con-
tracts, dental clinics for State scholars and
the extension of technical education.
“ J. 8.”: “M.P.A.” (B. 27/9/T7) is cor-
rect when he declares that the Java Dutch-
man has no affection for the British,
although he is pro-Ally. The result of the
Boer War, evidently. But in this case the
term “British” does not include the Aus-
tralian, for whom the Hollander has a warm
appreciation and an effusive friendliness.
I guess there is a practical reason for it, as
voiced by an ex-Dutch military officer to me
;|™ r our boys took New Guinea. Said he:
■\\ hat I would like to see is a treaty be-
tween Aiistralia and tllp Netherland-Indies.”
Ihe Dutch have already had to do a bit of
backstairs retreating before a more power-
rol nation. They depend on us in time of
need, and the. retention of the Dutch East
Indies by their present owners is to Aus-
tralia s interest. A glance at the map and
a knowledge of the resources of the Indies
shows their vital importance to our integrity
B.L. : The N. S. Wales Anglican Synod
has announced its conviction that the Zf
cause of syphilis is immorality, and
efforts should be made “to prevent nrostiti,
tion and generally to raise the life 0 f th»
people to a higher standard, so that true.'
more honorable and increased chivalrous eon'
OUR RECRUITING SYSTEM.
“Any luck, Sergeant?"
“The usual three."
"What, recruits?"
"No, cheers.”
ditions may prevail.” While that small job
is being tackled with gas the army of
syphilitic innocents in this fool-ridden coun-
try is, presumably, to be allowed to accumu-
late. The priests of God rewrite it: "Suf-
fer little children to suffer on, and protect
them not.”
From the gallery :
Estimable J. M. Chanter is not the most successful
Chairman of Committees that the House of Reps,
has enjoyed. Old age is probably impairing the
faculties that are required to hold a House in rigid
discipline. Occasionally he quite loses control and
has to recover his position by flourishing his velvet
hand in an iron glove and pretending an autocracy
he is too generous to feel. Lately he went to the
limits of his authority under the Standing Orders
by directing the Sergeant-at-Arms to remove Anstev
for misbehavior that had been provoked by
Chanter’s own weakness. Through inattention or
amiability he frequently allows a speaker to wander
from the subject in hand, suddenly remembers No.
l’s lapse when No. 2 is on his feet claiming the
same privilege, and practically makes the latter pay
for the double transgression. This brings him into
conflict with Labor members, who naturally question
his right to drag them off a trail that had been
blazed by one of his own side.
NERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Prime Minister opened a bazaar at Maldon.”
Oh, sweet is the morning-—the scent of the clover,
the breeze blowing- over the blossoming gums.
To-day is the day when our William’s arriving—a
limousine driving, from Melbourne he comes.
Oh, see-hee the honk-honking hero he comes!
The Prime-Carpet-bagger,
Our Union Jack wagger
(Oh, Pa, is that him in the big motor-cap?)
Flap !
He’s out Win-the-Warring,
As-I-said-beforeing,
All ready for action with lashings of yap.
Oh, merry the morning, all ribbons and laces and
gushing young graces with bows in their hair!
Glad, giddy, gay girleens in new summer pretties, as
smart as the city’s, fine-feathering there.
Oh, look at the mob of ’em clustering there!
The gran’dads and grannies
And giggling Aunt Annies,
A tip-toeing swarm of the flustered old dears.
Cheers!
A master of mumming,
Our Billy is coming
To start 11s kiyi-ing or move us to tears.
Ah, gay is the morning and pleasant the breezes that
blow through the trees as hoot-tooting he
comes,
While the brass-band ecstatic root-tootles and rumbles
amid the massed Bumbles a-twirling their
thumbs,
All watching and waiting and twiddling their thumbs
And pining to see him—
A chance to pink-tea him,
The lark of a lifetime for Martha and Tab.
Gab!
Oh, cheers for the hero,
Out-Neroing Nero,
Who’s Winning the War at a strawberry-grab!
VICTORIA.
O. L.


BUSH
DON
DELANEY
k
12 Splendid Novels
... for the ...
Australian Bookshelf.
LOUD BECKE
A FEW OF THE BEST SELLERS IN THE
BOOKSTALL” SERIES OF
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH.”
By DON DELANEY.
A tip-top historical novel.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA.”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
One of the most humorous of Australian
novels.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
A great novel of athletic Australia.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDER-
BOLT.”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
One of the best bushranging novels.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
By STEELE RUDD.
The story that made Steele Rudd famous.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER.”
By LOUIS BECKE.
The great story of the Pirate of the
Pacific.
“IN RACING SILK.” <
By GERALD It. BALDWIN.
A powerful story of the Turf.
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE.”
By ROY BRIDGES.
A fine story of early Van Diemen’s Land
days.
“FACT’RY ’ANDS.”
By EDWARD DYSON.
A masterpiece of Australian humor.
“SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES.”
By A. J. BARRY.
A series of splendid sea stories.
1-EACH.
ALL BOOKSTALLS
and BOOKSELLERS.
1/1 posted
from Publishers.
’a3Hsnand isnr
“SILVER STAR.”
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A great Australian mining story.
1/- each
“THE SELECTOR GIRL.”
By BRODA REYNOLDS.
A splendid story of the Bush.
nviSMOoa
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/e.)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2 1-
EACH
(N.Z. 2/6.)
SOME EXCELLENT REGAL RECORDS-
AT 2|- EACH.
6874
Jerry Jinks—Scallywag, Part 1 \\ ;ir Sketch.
Jerry Jinks —Scallywag, Part 2 >• »
G 895
5 You Planted a Rose in the Garden of Rove Irving Gillette.
( In the Heart of a City »> '
7010
J Honest Toil March (Concertina Solo) '• • • Alexander Prince.
( No Surrender March (Concertina Solo) >• »
7025
J March, F,e Keve Passe Band of H.M. Scots Guards,
X A Frangesa March »> » » ”
70(56
Cohen at the Call Office * oe Hay man.
Cohen Exceeds the Speed Limit » ”
7119
A Hunting: Scene Regal Orcliestia
Happy Blacksmith »» ”
7131
Talbot O’Farrell.
!
The Whistling Thiel
Take Me Back to the Home ot Childhood
1175
Till the Santis of the Desert Grow Coltl Stanley Iviikby.
When the Joy Bells King »
7270
J Boys of the Dardanelles March
{ High School Cadets’ March ...
Band of H.M. Scots’ Guards.
Silver Stars Band.
7286
{ Australia Will Be There
\ Australia Will Be There, March
Stanley Kirkby, etc.
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
7288
7304
J Regimental Marches of British Army, 1 I’.and of H.M. Welsh Guards
| Regimental Marches of British Army, 2 »?
7306
f Marches of British Army, I Band of H.M. Welsh Guards
{ Marches of British Army, 2 » ” ” ”
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY N.S.W. —Grat'onola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 132 Pirie Street.
PERTH, IV.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High St.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Hayward and Garratt, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
WORMS.
ONE NINE INCHES LONG AND ANOTHER FOUR
INCHES PASSED BY CHILD AFTER TAKING
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
Mrs. A. E. Bade, of 203 McKillop Street,
East Geelong. Vic., writes: —‘‘I have
great pleasure in writing to you to
let you know the satisfactory results
I had in using your ‘Dead Shot’ Worm
Pellets for my- young son, aged 14
years. He has been ailing for some time
and complained of pain in the spine and a
very sore stomach, and often in the night
would start vomiting without any warning
whatever. lie also had several fainting
turns. I became alarmed and took him to
the doctor, but the treatment did him no
good. I then thought I would try your
Worm Tablets, as to me he had every
appearance of worms. I procured a bottle
of them, together with a bottle of Indian
Root Pills, and commenced the treatment.
The second day after taking them he passed
a stomach worm nine inches long,. and the
next day one four inches long. Since then
he has picked up wonderfully and is twice
the child he was. If he shows any signs
again I will not hesitate to try them, as I
was so pleased with the results. I am most
grateful to the proprietors of these tablets,
as my husband is away on Active Service
and the worry of our boy being so ill nearly
drove me mad. Thanking you again.”
STOMACH WORMS.
A MENACE TO CHILDREN.
Stomach worms are undoubtedly the most
invidious kind of all. They inhabit the
stomach and inflict great havoc upon their
victim. They deprive the victim of half the
nutriment he consumes, and when the
stomach is empty gnaw the sides of the
stomach, causing such terrible sensations as
to often cause faintness. Aperient medi-
cines have no effect upon them, for when
any purgative is taken they fasten them-
selves to the walls of the stomach by a
groove running down their side. The best
method of dislodging stomach worms is to
starve the system and take Comstock's
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. The worms are
weakened by the want of food, and are
induced to take whatever is taken, the
stomach. Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets contain the properties which sicken
and disable the worms, and a dose of opening
medicine will clear them out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot" Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. Tor sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. 6d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co.. Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney; or Farish Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
SB
nVnnnnnnut
liiwiniv
in I"'
min 1
fTTtiW ii
m
inn'
IIVV'II
miiaimi 1
B
S
TN
-v7
s- f
NEW
ZEALAND


The I-lu'ns have the choice of revolution
now, or suffering the miseries of winter fol-
lowed by certain destruction in the spring,
opineth that wise snirit King George IV.
topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROU
tecu&
LEWIS & WHITTY MAKERS
No one can afford to waste.
Spend only what is necessary
and then always with an eye
to saving. Men, be practical
- economise shave your-
selves.
NO STROPPING
JJJIL
One bought to-day will save many a
shilling in a year, and hours of your
valuable time. Many styles to
choose from. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. H»«nung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVE»
AMERICAS
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
anil How to M
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc..
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
9
©
§S
Pth
-., -
World
Famed
HATS
are foremojt
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
In the 24 races decided at the A.J.C. meet-
ing eight favorites did what was expected of them,
mostly on the last two days, for up to the end of
tlie second day’s proceedings 11 favorites had gone
down plunk. Four times the punter laid odds on,
and on three of these occasions he got it in the eye.
The hardest smack was over Two Blues, in which
Ikey took 7 to 4 in the Trial and saw him badly
beaten by the unmentioned chance Percolator. Next
day Two Blues was started in the Metropolitan, and
ran any old way. All this seemed to be convincing
evidence that Two Blues preferred not to have it too
long. A\ r hen he was pulled out in the AVaverley
Handicap, lj miles, a few people still insisted that
Two Blues was a stayer, and helped themselves. He
won right enough, ’ but' it will be a long time before
anyone lays 7 to 4 on him again. • Of the beaten
favorites il ran into a place and one fell down on
the journey. The biggest dividend of the meeting
for 10s. was. £1.7 odd on Red Pennant, who stag-
gered home in the Sydney Handicap, to the great
surprise of the crowd. Though over this and a few
other races some big rolls were taken from the
Ring, the old-established firm was feeling pretty well
at tlie finish.
In the-Craven Plate Biplane once more
gave everything else an opportunity to inspect his
tail. It was .just- -the- same old one-horse race as
Hie Derby, : and. the. result confirmed the suspicion
expressed on this page after the Rosehill Guineas
that even) Had the abbreviated Prince Viridis an
uninterrupted journey 'in that event he could not
have kept going with'the winner. Biplane had none
the best ,of, the start, but inside a furlong he was
out in front with Thana-. Shaking her off at half a
mile lie ran on at life' own gait and won by a clear
two lengths, easing up at the end of the mile and
a quarter, in 2min. Sjsec. This equals the course
record for the distance set up by AVoorak in the
same race three years ago. Prince A r iridis was
pushed hard by. Connell to reach thetfleader, but
never got even Within striking distance! The little
chap was clean outclassed and finished dead-tired a
length behind Thana.
The win jn the Craven Stakes brought Biplane’s
winnings at Randwick to £6600. Add the proceeds
of his effort as - a two-year-old, and the colt’s total
is £B5OO. As he Cost only £395 this first of the
Comedy Kings' to get away with a “classic” has
been a very profitable animal. Moreover, at this
stage the V.R.C. Derby looks a “bird.” Of course
the question of how the horse would perform if com-
pelled to argue the point has not yet been answered,
nor has anything capable of putting the question to
him been produced. A very free goer, it is probable
that, like AVoorak, he' gallops as fast on the bit as
he would under pressure. The trouble about running
him down is to get within striking distance at the
right time and have anything left to work on. In
the three races he won at Randwick there was
nothing to make even an impression on him. A
nag that runs nih'e furlongs in 52jsee., 10 furlongs
in “51,” and 12 under Derby weight in “34f” is
entitled to great respect, even though figures, as a
rale, bo podr tipsters.
* * * *
The Metropolitan winner Cagou may
have a chance in the .Melbourne Cup, but anyone who
feeLs that he has ought to have another think in the
light of the Randwick Plate running. Cagou there
made no sort of showing. This may possibly be
accounted for by the horse having a preference for a
hard track, but in the judgment of this writer the
ancient found the journey both too fast and too long.
Thana, who had run well in a couple of previous
races, won from end to end, a circumstance mainly
attributable to Bursar not having the condition to
see him through. Last year’s winner ran up to the
leader at the bend, but was unable to put any ginger
into the controversy. This left Sasanoff to continue
the hunt, and he did it without much enthusiasm.
Bursar has been coming on lately, but is still a
good deal-below his best form, and being an uncer-
tain animal to train the stable will shake hands with
itself if it gets him there again. Whatever may be
said about Cagou, don’t forget that in the Metropoli-
tan he had a fair share of luck.
* * * *
Tliana’s time for the Randwick Plate this
vear is well outside Trafalgar’s record for the race—
“ 27” in 1910. Still “291” for the two-mile trip
was a pretty slick performance in view of the mare
having won from end to end on a track that was not
the sort to make time on. And if time is to count,
this 291 is better than can be shown for any other
winner of the race except the record-holder and
Carlita. Ulva’s Isle did only just as well. Trafal-
gar won the Plate three times, and twice was a long
time doing it. The noticeable thing about the race
last week was that Thana licked the jiead off every-
thing else in it, and once more showed what an excep-
tionally good mare she is.
The occasional excellence of Cagou never
seemed quite possible to punters who hadn’t seen the
son of Air Laddie perform away from Melbourne. He
has made four trips to the Yarraside within the past
four years, atid failed always. In 1913, after getting
away with the Metrop. in reiNird time, he put up
his best A r ic. performance. He ran second to Sea
Prince for tlie AVilliamstown Cup. giving 121 b. to
the eccentric English horse. In about 15 races on
the A’ic. side Cagou has been placed four times only,
arid more often than not he ran pretty badlv. He
has performed so ingloriouslv in three Melbourne
Cups that local people simply couldn’t understand
bow he came to be runner-up in the Sydney Cup
which CarloniqL won. or winner of the Brisbane Cup
(two miles) four .years ago.
The Rajah had none the best of the luck
that was going at Randwick last week. In the second
hurdles Bundong, while running close to the front
towards the end of the journey, turned a seven.
Whereupon the Rajah acquired the Maoriland filly
Kilfoyle, and she carried the red-and-orange uniform
in the Gimeraek Stakes, besides a heavy investment.
AVhat happened in that event made the Rajah give an
imitation of the hurdler. Kilfoyle was carried right
across the course by another animal coming round
the turn, and her chance seemed to be changed to
dough. But she was levelled up again, and, making
good the lost ground, was out in front and looking
a good thing opposite the stand. Once more some-
thing intervened to beat her —this time a paralysing
ran by the Li nacre filly Sweet Lady. It was hard
mozzle.
Results of the Epsom anil Metrop. were
disconcerting to everybody who had been looking for
developments of form among the imported stuff. Five
English horses ran in the Epsom, and none of them
made a show of winning. The talked-of Snow King
finished absolutely last. In the Aletrop. the only
imported animal was last year’s winner, Quinologist,
and he was one of the last to finish. Judging by
what happened in the Spring Stakes and the
Metrop., the most likely of the Sydney horses for
the approaching’ Melbourne meetings are AVestcourt.
Lingle, Wallace Isinglass, Thana and The Fortune
Hunter. By all the rules of form measurement,
AVestcourt can be made out to have a first-class Mel-
bourne Cup chance with Bst. 51b. up., for he ran second
to Patrobas as a three-year-old, carrying 7st. 411)., and
his second to Cagou last week proves him back at
bis best again. The other four nags are in both
Cups, and Thana looks the most dangerous of them
—for the Caulfield event, at any rate. Lingle is a
slow beginner, as a rale, whilst Isinglass prefers to
race on the outside of the field —a heavy handicap
for a. Caulfield Cup candidate. Shepherd King last
year had to be taken to the outside before he would
begin to win, but then the English horse had a very
light weight and was probably a good deal better
Than Mi-. “Baron’s” uncertain customer. Present
appearances indicate that the Caulfield will go to
something trained in A’ictoria, and that AVestcourt
will be the best of the Australian-bred horses in the
longer race.
JACK JANNESE, Vic. bantam pug.
A N. S. Wales nag which may reach out
for the Caulfield Cup is Pah King, winner of the
Clibborn Stakes. Handicapped at 81b. under w.f.a.
this colt reads as well as anything so far on the
lower scale, and until Bronzetti has made a recovery
he looks the best of the 3-year-olds from these
parts. His Derby failure doesn’t matter.
“0.K.”: Nobody can gainsay Bombita’s
chance in Caulfield Cup, save on the ground that he
is rather fitful and may not care to battle along in
a big field of horses. At Flemington last March,
when he ran second to Court Jester for the Bruns-
wick Stakes (10 furlongs), he made a most com-
manding ran, but didn’t sustain it to the bitter end.
Still he looks as well worth backing as the more
fancied Lavendo, and his breeding suggests more
stamina than he has shown thus far.
The Stead-owned horses might by the look
of things at Randwick just as well get back to
Maoriland. Last year everything was easy. This
time a hoodoo seems to have roosted on the feed-box.
Kilboy went wrong to start with, and only one of
the others has gone fast enough to end with—and
this in a small race. Sasanoff was twice reckoned to
be on the verge of doing what he came to do, and
both times ran in a conspicuously moderate fashion.
Taking him to Melbourne, for w.f.a. events, at any
rate, looks likely to lead to nothing except the con-
sumption of oats. The Toff is popularly suspected
of having an intention to do a sensational gallop
when the time is ripe. On his track work the sus-
picion is justifiable; but the form shown with the
colors up suggests something else.
* * * *
Lanius lost no friends by his performance
in the V.R.C. October Handicap on Saturday. There
was some doubt abort the big fellow being forward
enough to run a mile and a half right out, wherefore
he started at a longer price than either Lavendo or
Harriet Graham. He put up a particularly fine per-
formance, and the next thing to find out is how
good the Englishman really is when tuned up.
Running under a pull for the first mile, he struck
out from the half-mile and, collaring Petana, who
had gone away with a long lead, at the bend went
on and finished a length ahead of Lavendo, whose
effort to get in front had been easily shaken off.
Another month should see this commanding galloper
about right. He looks well up to his Cup weight.
“Trot”: I saw three girls preparing to
invade Israel for a bet about the Metropolitan. Not
one of them knew which end a horse carries its tail.
They decided the matter by the colors. “Ah, that one
for me!” said one as a nag did its preliminary. To
the other two another hue appealed, and they put
their dollars on for a place. And this is how it
panned out —Cagou, Westcourt, Lingle. This is abso-
lutely dinkum. Just before 1 had noticed a “head”
who knows a bit more about the game than most
take 500 to 50. He collected nothing.
* * * *
The winners of the A.J.C. Derby, Epsom
and Metropolitan this year cost their owners only
895 guineas. They have won about £25,000 between
them so far, and the figures are going to move up a
bit yet. But this writer wouldn’t like to say that
three other prads he saw running are going to win
much more in spite of having cost well over £3OOO.
Country racing clubs have again been
groaning to the N. S. Wales Government about the
gross unfairness of the totalisator system, and giving
Acting-Premier Fuller another chance to talk about
the subject generally with rambling inconsequence.
Every week since the totalisator was legalised in
N. S. Wales has brought confirmatory evidence of
the justice of The Bulletin's criticism of the
authorising Bill, and made more emphatic the scan-
dal that the State Government is handling
this subject like a committee of bottle-ohs. Appar-
ently the Ministry is unable to grasp even the rudi-
mentary part of the problem it is dealing with, or to
approach the thing in any other spirit than that of a
raw r anxiety to get its fingers on a certain amount
of cash. And because its greediness is hampered by
dullness it is not even making good as a grabber.
The existing arrangement under which the Govern-
ment demands an exorbitant share of the money
invested in the tote, allows the books to operate
next door, permits proprietary clubs to use the
machine, and issues permits to any old country ramp
calling itself a “racing club” is without a single
redeeming feature. Every racing man knows it
to be so. A great many want to see it continue
to be so, and judged by the shocking insults to
public decency perpetrated under the specious yarn
about “curtailment of sport,” some of these people
have a useful pull.
The growl of the country clubs is that under
the seven and three per cent, division they run the
machine at a loss, and their other sources of revenue
have to bear a charge for collecting revenue for the
State. All Fuller can say in reply is that he sym-
pathises with the people who protest, that he will
look into the subject, and that the whole trouble is
due to the books “starting concession betting.” This
is nonsense. Concession betting was worked long
before the tote arrived. But even if it were not so
it would have nothing to do with the subject. The
first thing for Fuller to do is to understand the
only .considerations that justify the totalisator, and,
next, to absorb these incontrovertible facts: (1)
that the books will always beat the machine, or,
at any rate, heavily discount it; and (2) that no valid
excuse exists for maintaining the two institutions
side by side. That the State should derive revenue
from the machine cannot be questioned. But that
the machine should be looked at merely as a device
for supplying a Government with cash is horribly
dangerous. The revenue to the State should be a
mere detail of the totalisator’s operations. The
revenue to the racing clubs is a far more important
consideration. The use that revenue is put to is a
matter the Government has a right to have some-
thing to say-about. But to all these things the N.
S. Wales Ministry insists on closing its eyes. It
has abundant proof that the racing business is
absurdly overdone —that for 50 per cent, of it, at
least, no rational excuse can be found. And all
it can do is to push the totalisator into the game
under conditions which destroy its usefulness, leave
all the old evils undisturbed, and then talk about the
matter with exasperating futility.
If is only by giving the word a very modified
meaning that the totalisator can be said to have
been successful last week at Randwick. In four
days the paddock machine handled £93,015. Israel
handled the rest, which was five or six times as
much. From the machine turnover the Government
appropriated £6500, and the club approximately £3700.
Out of this latter amount the cost of building and
running the contraption has to be met. The amount
left would not be great. But, however small, it
would, under the existing arrangement, represent an
increase of revenue to the club, because the books
were there as usual. So it all boils down to this,
that the public, which by its admission-fees and
transactions with Israel and so on provided the
money raced for at the meeting, paid an additional
£lO,OOO for the four-days’ amusement without
getting any additional fun. AVhat public benefit Was
there? AVhat good service was done to racing?
None! The certain thing is that the twin system
cannot be defended, that the division of the com-
mission is wildly disproportionate—and that the
whole matter demands overhauling from end to end.
At present the Government is merely helping to
milk the public.
One noticeable thing at Randwick was that the
presence of the machine made Ikey Bet. Another
was that practically all of the “big money” went
to the Ring. And a third was that the present
machine is not going to meet the needs of the future.
Another establishment should be erected for pay-out
purposes, and all of the existing windows used for
receipts. And unless all the mechanical ingenuity
in the place has gone to _ the Front, this page can
see no reason why investing cubicles could not be
placed at different parts of the premises—near the
grandstand, near the tea-rooms, in the members’
stand, for instance —connected up with the main
machine for automatic registration.
* * * ♦
J. D. Ormond having died the other day
in Maoriland, there will no longer be necessity for a
stranger at one of the more important race meetings
over yonder to ask questions about a little, thin,
white-whiskered old party in an antique hat and
square-rigged pants, observed taking in silent exclu-
siveness a great interest in the proceedings. For
many years the cerise jacket was the best-known
livery on the North Island courses, and in its time
was carried by some good horses. Ormond owned the
Karanui stud, near Hastings, and was an extensive
breeder, though in point of numbers not particularly
successful, mainlv because his choice of sires was
governed by caution in expenditure. Dreadnought
did best. Yet he most likely got move personal
gratification out of racing than most men who turn
out a greater proportion of top-notchers. Perhaps
the best horse he ever had was North Atlantic, and
this nag he gelded. Zimmerman, Renown, Daunt,
Target. Ideal, Sir Lancelot—these ranged from fair
to good,- and there were scores of others that were
just plain ordinary. It all must have cost a lot of
money.
* * * *
Les Darcy’s estate has been sworn for
probate at £1760.
Walter Lindrum made an easy job of con-
ceding AV. Abotomey 8000 in a 16.000 game at Syd-
ney during the past fortnight. In only one of 24
sessions did Landrum fail to rattle up the soh«l„i -
quota of points, and in that Abotomey
most people by scoring 687 against 325-w.u'
same evening Lindrum got back to his nomt- ,
reeling off 1175 against 181. When the'XS tl
out Abotomey was just 1500 astern. Allowim, t l
the start, Lindrum scored 16,000 while Almn , 0r «
was piling up 6500. D °toniey|
Ali three century-smiters in the opening
round ot Sydney premiership cricket on g
pushed off with better efforts than they put^m^ l '
season. C. Achurch (Sydney), who biffed a U s Jst
162 out of 306, is a consistent batsman who toft
efforts last season failed only four times to kno k
up double figures. His average was 40 2 In ior
16 he averaged 21.34. Petersham’s all-Vounder uT
Scott, with 115 out of 258 on Saturday, didn’t
much limelight for the others. Scott helped x l e
Wales in inter-State cricket in ’l5 \v \y A; «■
102 for Waverley .is only 127 less than he coubl
compile in 12 innings last season.
bowlers, AY. S. Dight (Western Suburbs) hi
rare first-round performance of nine for 171
Waverley. Getting wickets is not a new pasting
Dight. Last season he twice took seven wicket! t?
an innings. R. B. Minnett (Middle Harborl
six for 34, and Gibbons (North Sydnev), six for "r
were bright patches where all the rest was gloom ’
An athlete who looks like making good ; 0
R. Perkins, of Sydney Technical High School r
winning the combined High Schools’ high
recently he threw himself over sft. sin • at th
Eight Hour Sports he dead-heated for second (firm
scratch) with sft. 4in. ; and on Saturday (with 4m
allowance) won East Sydney’s high jump with V '
4in. Perkins is a well-built lad of 17, with enouTh
stature and strength to help in the leap toward
higher things.
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, has at last
broken, by a narrow win at tennis from Prince
Alfred’s, the astonishing run of bad luck in sport of
all kinds that has stuck to it since the beginning nf
1913. The past head, Girdlestone, an Oxford stroke
was not a man likely to let the athletic side of a
school go down. Neither is the present acting-head
Ainslie Caterer, the old cricketer. Yet down it has
gone —for the time. These things just happen.
Football has been frowned upon and sup-
pressed in Adelaide for the past two winters by the
League and by the bodies controlling all the chief
grounds. But a “patriotic association” has kept
up a programme of matches on outside “ovals.” The
Port Adelaide club, having won the premiership with
1 0 wins in 11 games, gave itself a dinner in celebra-
tion, at which it made these claims: (1) The Club
has earned for, and handed to, charities £6OO in the
past two years. (2) The players have “asked for
nothing and accepted nothing.” (3) Of the team 1.0
are married, four are under 21, and the other two
are rejected volunteers. (4) “If the time has
arrived for football to be cut out, then a clean
sweep should also be made of all other sport ”
* * * *
“Shadow”: in my tent at Menangle
(N.S.W.) there are eight good Australian athletes,
ranging from 18 to 22 years, and each over Cft.
perpendicular or horizontal, whichever 'you like. One
is an all-schools boxing champion, one can carry a
bag of wheat under each arm, one has a most
debonair manner of laying ’em out about the fifth
round, one has been overlanding cattle from the
Nor’-west since he was 16. I am sft. Bin. of activity
and only 36, yet I feel a has-been among this mas-
of energy.
(Continued on page 34-)
A luncheon was tendered to S. W. Grif-
fiths on his retirement from the secretary-
ship of the N. S. Wales branch of the
Federated Watchmakers and Jewellers'
Association, and a cutlery canteen was .
pressed on him by president W. J. Proud, on
behalf of the members. The guest in reply
said the usual nice things about happy rela-
tionships and generous presentations.


Every Man and Woman can
have PERFECT HEALTH!
‘No matter how much learning you may acquire, no matter
how you may develop your talents, no matter how much
money you may earn, if through ignorance of your own
body you suffer ill-health, and die years before j r our time,
vour education will have been a failure.”
Why be handicapped in life’s battle through ill-health?
\\ hy suffer needless aches and pains?
\f hy allow yourself to become run-down, nervy, out-of-sorts,
and liable to contract the various complaints to which
mankind is subject?
Why not become a strong, vigorous and perfectly-healthy
being, as Nature intended you to be?
Regular and proper exercise, such as I prescribe in my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy. Don’t
think that your case is the exception—it’s not. You will find
my exercises both beneficial and enjoyable pastime. You
will look forward to the time when you have to do them,
and find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs and make you breathe in a natural way.
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should
like to send you a copy. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and post it to me. I will know
what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”
BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
640 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
E I
rr
mm
mrSfi!
mlm
mm
THE CHOICE
Of THE PEOPLE
THE WORLDS BEST
vw*
All You
Need to
Look for
on. a Motor Cycle
is the Name
i/fidim
Catalogue "D" with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. ltd:
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
*Australian Glory ’
Egyptian Cigarettes.
Just Landed
Another Shipment of these
Choice Cigarettes, the
product of Nestor Gianaciis
Ltd., Cairo.
We were fortunate to land this shipment at the old price, consequently the price is
as usual, viz.:—-
8/6 per 100. Postage paid.
Why not try a packet of 10? Forwarded anywhere for 1/-
A. Kebblewhite, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old established House,”
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NATIONAL
BENZINE
INSTANT acceleration and clean, consistent,
ungrudging power —power that will make
your craft “cut the water" with an undimin-
ished speed, as mile upon mile is left behind—
THAT’S the power that NATIONAL Benzine
ALWAYS gives. In the speed trial, in the long-
distance run, whether the weather be heavy or
calm, use National Benzine for power, speed,
never-varying reliability and unequalled economy.
Obtainable All Garages
and Storekeepers ....
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD ,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
ADELAIDE.
'Srz
J-*C "
/
#
lIHHHiII
I
n
i
lIMMI
?«
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
CAUTION—AIways ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
SI
m
J
0
.V *
■ V''
• ' N \
°a iwA''
l^v
I \
cs
,{«, IN \
/ I
S'"
31
V[f\
I :':i:iS
“L.S.” JUDHPORES, 22 16
TAILOR-MADE TO ORDER
THE Judhpore is a combination of the ideas responsible
for the production of Riding Breeches and Riding
Trousers of the usual design. With Judhpores you get
the fullness at the thighs and almost the same close fitting
at the knees as are features of Riding Breeches of regu-
lation pattern. No leggings are needed. The design
obviates the necessity of using laces or buttons at the
knee. The garments can be pulled on as qtyckly and
easily as ordinary Riding Trousers. You therefore get
also the commendable features of the latter.
There is no doubt as to the handiness of Judhpores, and
they have more than justified their great popularity in
Australia.
We quote our “L.S.** Special Judhpores in Military
Drills at 22/6, tailor-made to order. Other materials are
obtainable up to £4.
SAMPLES ARE POST FREE
with tape, self-measurement form, copy of catalogue, etc. Wie
make to a 6-day schedule. We Pay Freight. We Guarantee
Satisfaction. Write us To-day.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street (opposite Station), Melbourne


“I can travel
twifi.'y over the roughe st paper.
/ travel many hundreds of miles every
year—over foolscap and notepaper, sketch
hook and drawing pad.
1 can travel in comfort, with never a
hit ok, or a jolt, or a wait, for years and
years.”
The Onoto is the Fountain Pen that fills
itself instantly from any ink supply, with
no trouble or mess. A simple device seals
the ink reservoir so that the Onoto cannot
leak. You can pack it in your bag without
any fear of it ever spoiling your clothes.
It is the safety pen that is REALLY safe —
the self filling pen that is ALWAYS satis-
factory. Get it.
Onoto
the non-stop pen.
Price I A/6 and upwards. Also ONOTO
Valveless for those who do not want a Self-
Killing Safety Pen, from 10/6 awards. From
all stationers, jewellers, and stores. Manu-
facturers: I'hos De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 259
BunhillßOW,London E.C. Managing Agents:
Norman Baker & Longhurst, York street,
Sydney.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half n
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt- y
ing. Good for
old andyoung.^
Purely
Vegetable.
Carters
lITTLE
jIVER
PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dosa—Sm ill Prica.
GENUINE must bear signature
TO MAKE
DELICIOUS JELLIES
USE ONLY
J&LJANE
PURE FRUIT JUICES USED
FOR ALL FLAVORS*
Manufactured by
J* PARRY & CO*,
WATERLOO, SYDNEY*
Agents.
BRISBANE: A. M. BICKFORD & SONS LTD.
MELBOURNE: P. W. HEYMAN.
HOBART: AGENCIES LTD.
ADELAIDE: AGENCIES LTD.
IF anybody charges you more than 6d. for
a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 Gs. (Id. to 214 George Street. Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
ijos/oc&
BOOTS are the smart wear for the season
—Dame Fashion has east that die most
decisively—and this white poplin boot,
fashionable, short-fronted, with a trim,
military heel, will look uncommonly well with
the short white skirts of this season. Then,
better still, like all the short-fronted models
in the Bostock range, it is quite amazingly
comfortable, and will suit all types of feet. In
fact, most women will get a pleasant surprise
when they try it on, and see how nice it looks
and how delightful it feels. And it will con-
tinue to feel delightful in wear, since all
Bostock soles are specially treated so as to
extract from them those chemicals used in
tanning, which are apt to make the feet hot
and tired. So, in this boot one will be
dainty, cool and fresh, able to enjoy walks,
picnics and excursions in the most blazing
weather.
Bostock No.
P 6141
<§>
m
mz
111
m
■m
,
*■
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
A charming selection of Bostock shoes
always on view at all leading stores.
832
%
\
tyres
RTBBEE
THREE
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON HROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
p.c.b.— 70
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attornev-General).
DRAWN NOVEMBER 3, 1917.
Ist Prize, value £650. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. C. Loughton Shipley,
Blackheath, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1917.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in The Bulletin
on Thursday, November 8, 1917. To any person forward-
ing stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will he
posted.' Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Join the Crowd
who swear by the “Plum” Razor. Its keenly-
tempered edge remains keen; the result is only one
lathering is usually necessary.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6— POST FREE.
,AVe keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
There is a motor-car in the U.S.A. for
every 25 people. One driving and 24 dodging.
The new Food Regulations in' England
give rise to some odd problems. One keen angler
and his wife have one day’s river fishing every week,
and average a catch of 201 b., good food, the bulk of
which they give away where it will do most good.
And yet, if they go out and “waste” their old
bread —the best bait for many fresh-water fish—
they are liable to be dropped on by any rural con-
stable, and fined anything up to £loo—like the
old lady who was lately hauled up for feeding the
birds in her garden.
* * * *
‘‘Con” : lie “Mat” (B.’ 13/9/’l7) and
“Q.P.” (B. 20/9/’l7), who asks for better per-
formers in N. S. Wales sport than P. B. Colqu-
houn and Stan Wickham, I nominate St. John
to put both in the shade. Though handicapped by
having only one hand, he has represented Queensland
in Rugby football, cricket and tennis, plays above
the average game of billiards (he manages this by
wrapping a handkerchief round the stump of his
arm) and holds his own at chess. P.S.—He is in
khaki doing clerical work.
“Lantana” : A naval officer at Jervis Bay
a week or so back landed a swordfish 3ft. lOin. long
and one foot in girth on a fine gut line. No slouch of
a play either! Talking about big fellows, a couple
of fishermen got a cod in an overflow front the
Ovens River which scaled 951 b. A roll of fat
weighing 101 b. was taken from it.
* * * *
“Trooper Bluegum” : When we came in
from Gaza recently the Hun "planes were bombing
the camp at Rafa, so a few of us thought it would
be healthier to go surfing. Wherefore we saddled
our camels and rode the two miles across to the
Mediterranean. Surfing good, but nothing like at
Manly—of course. Quite a crowd was on the beach,
Australians, Tommies and others. Spotted there the
quaintest will I ever hope to see. A Welsh Fusilier
had tattooed on his chest: “My Will: All to Lizzie
Jones.” Lizzie apparently wasn’t his onlv love, for
on his right forearm was tattooed a heart inside
of which was “Gladys Evans.” On his left arm
was a lover’s knot and “Gwen Llovd.” Then his
shoulder bore the words “Cardiff, 1913,” and some
initials. Possibly they were those of his sister.
Query.—lf he stops one can Lizzie prove the will in
court and collect ?
♦ * * •
A long-distance runner got some practical
good out of his training the other day, according to
a Ballarat story. J. Nunon, a local harrier, picked up
the tracks of a sheep-killing dog, and, instead of
turning the air blue, started a private Marathon,
with the dog as pacemaker. After a cross-country
run of nine miles he ran the dog to a standstill and
killed it.
* * * *
Edwin Smith, president of the S.A.
Cricket Association throughout its nearly-half-
century of existence, lectured the members at the
annual meeting with a vigor suggesting only half
of the age (87) which he carries. In the most
sporting spirit they have practically abolished
sport during the war (except for the schools), so
their income has almost vanished. The loss on’the
year has been £775, and he told them that they must
cut down expenditure to match. The Assoc, had
£4OOO put away before the war, and was within
an ace of spending this and mortgaging the future
on new pavilions, when the trouble started. Now
it is glad it didn’t. The 900 members, having
been given so little, have been charged nothing for
the past year. They are to be asked to be sports
to the extent of half the usual two guineas for the
coming year, and expenses are to be cut down
harder.
* * * *
“Pick”: While “Corrigenda” and “Trot”
are wildly brandishing their 1000 to 1 eel-breeding
wagers (B. 19/9/T7), let me tell what happened
when we were dredging at Araiuen (N.S.W.) in the
dry summer of ’OB. We had churned 200 yards of
flat, on the southern bank of dry sand, when we
cut through into a detached lagoon. As the waters
drained, young eels from three inches to a foot long
poured out in thousands and wriggled into the river.
Bigger fellows were wallowing in the mud. Now,
if these baby eels came originally from the sea. why
did they leave the river and cross a long stretch
of sand to enter the overcrowded w’aters of a stagnant
lagoon ?
* * * *
“Wandi”: Flock pigeons are profitable
game* for the shooter bags many brace with one
cartridge. They are exclusively terrestrial, never
lighting on trees. Like most bronzewings they
rise with a loud whirring noise, and when thousands
rise together the roar is remembersome.
Binghi nets them at their drinking holes or
kills them on wing with boomerangs. While we w T ere
droving down the Wilson River our cattle w T ere
much disturbed one evening at sunset by an
immense flock flying low over them. The birds
would pass over and settle on a clear patch about
100 yards distant; then, rising with a tremendous
clatter, go whirring over the animals again. At
last a drover in exasperation loaded a single-barrelled
gun and fired into them. The~eharge dropped 32.
THE THIEF OF TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Teetotal Snowball has been trying to induce the
tic. Assembly to consider an amending bill to
make it an offence for any man who has been shouted
for to shout back within three hours.
Good Brother Snowball, comes it then
That thou, once model for all men.
Who loathed Booze and all its ways
In every hour of all the days,
Wilt put the saintly rules to mock,
And leave the finger of the clock
To point out sin? Wilt seconds split
For proof of it?
Arid wouldst thou in the statutes set
This strangest, saddest doctrine yet—
That naughty things which men may do
Are quite permissible at two,
But reprehensible and vile
In that most hoggish son of guile
Who greedily shall gulp his schooner
A minute sooner ?
Mugg shouteth Tubb, as in they dive
Within the pub at just-on five.
Then, leaning on the bar, till eight
To hear the echo Mugg must wait.
Shalt thou escape the accusing din ?
Procrastination is thy sin 1
Thou shalt be christened for this crime
Tile Thief of Time!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
“Bill Bowyang”: Yes, turtle-stalking C
exciting sport, all right. In the days before someone
introduced opium-charcoal and rum to Binghi on the
Whitsunday Islands (N.Q.), it was a daily event for
Mrs. Binghi to paddle out a couple of miles from
shore and harpoon a turtle. Then the sport began.
Once turtle began to sprint that canoe tore through
the water with the speed of a U-boat chasing a hos-
pital ship. Mrs. Binghi didn't mind. She calmly
bailed out the canoe and smoked. But there were
times when the turtle refused to sprint along the
surface, and started deep-sinking. Then the yell of
Mrs. Binghi floated across the water, and unless she
held her presence of mind long enough to cut the
rope connecting the harpoon with the canoe, the
sharks were kept busy for a time and there w ? as one
female less on the islands.


x
;>>>*
&'■' -
S3C'
at av /
mms
A
W®.‘
XXE
'■ v,v : ‘
;-7'
v;
fell
fpSv^
irsag
• >'
vW'
BE
S<*§x :
v - b
SSMgML.
•§*>
iV
siS&V
ijZ^nNs,
V AY
//
"v
<m
N\X
N«
v?
:>:
y
IliSi,
\v
ss**®sS3fcg
K*
SSSSSbti
.'t
m
V
V#
fill
/**•
X^.fX's
YiitSr~--
NNM
<SS
sx
w
3/
~> --:
17
X 5 , /
/ y 7-
&
X: s
X«AXe
& « * i
v*-'
i;m
i '.'
£W' ,i
xx
—*-ic
ll
is
rs^
. r '
B\\N
,>»•'■*-
V---,
XT?
rx'^xr-/;
'•'X
tiwv
:/
i :>
e ucircurom
froiriTcihs ol
’man
THIS charming selection —perhaps not intrinsically a very
great composition —has spread the sweetness of its
haunting strains over the whole world. It possesses a depth
of feeling so elusive that frequently the finer effects are
lost. In its execution the expression is its all.
With a Beale Player-piano you will
tind that it is not at all hard to play
music with characteristics similar to
the “Barcarolle." It is an instrument
essentially responsive to one’s best
musical thoughts, and is so sympa-
thetic that complete, soul-satistying
rendition becomes almost instinctive.
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
©cue
UP
&>o?
► George
Sydney.
Factories:
41-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
, M -u fflulburn Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.. Hobart.
Z:^ E ~ l,„.a*** ™«- ***•"+■
NUp ' Flmrlers Street. Townsville Rockhampton, Sydney Street, Mackay. Catrns.


THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.—The Latest
Scientific Hearing: instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
MgarS Far Phono " lan y times as efficient
iwKaii Lai rnone and powerful ag the ol(3
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed hv a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of onr Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 891 G City. SYDNEY.
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Tlie Secret of a Long,
Happy Life.
A TREATISE of priceless value written by a
specialist in the treatment of stomach and bowel
troubles has just been -explaining the
Causes, Effects and Treatment of Constipation.
It tells how Nature will restore your birthright
of Health, Success and Happiness without the use
of medicines, injections, special foods, laborious exer-
cise or apparatus.
Elbert Hubbard says: “In the race of life the
man with educated bowels will eclipse the man with
an educated brain.”
FREE TO ALL WHO DESIRE IT.
This enlightening work —the result of years of
experience and study—will he sent you by return
mail absolutely free. Write to-day. Enclose 2d.
postage.
J. P. GALE,
237 Collins Street, Melbourne.
15he “DAISY”
Combination Acetylene Table & Bracket Lamp
As per illustra-
tion. Complete
with globe and
bracket.
Height Overall,
15 inches.
Breadth of Base,
5 inches.
Freight Paid,
17 6
Solid Brass.
75 Candle Power.
Burns 6 Hours
at one filling.
LUX LIGHT CO.
OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
WEAR
ABBEY SHOES
—the footwear that is worn or
well-dressed men. They are not
only smart in appearance, bnt will
give the utmost in SERVICE and
COMFORT.
We illustrate a special Ilighest-
grade. Patent I\id Button Boot.
Perforate Golosh. Fawn Calf
Kegs.
Price - sOj-
In half and full sizes and three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between 0.P.0. and hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
JOIN up, young man, and you will lieip
to bring about a permanent peace. Stay
out, and the chances are that you will have
to stand practically to arms till you are
past middle-age.
Missing Friends.
Edward parry jones. last heard
of in San Francisco. Information
wanted re whereabouts. Himself or friends
requested to write Mrs. Edward Jones. Gully
Road, Oakleigh, Tie., Aust. Father dead.
■
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The “ Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S.”
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£7(O/6 Complete.
£6/15/6 without Stirrups.
£6/9/6
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in X. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post, 1/.
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, 9d.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, if in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The "Kemp” Saddle
AS US Lil) 15Y
PROFEEfOR KEMP
OF
CL’CX JUMPING FAME.
In tin's saddle it is impossible for rider to
be tint *:i (.11 to head of saddle, while it
als i 1 ;? , d the benefits of stock knpepads
within' iht;r disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high i >, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
mad ■ in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
c ■ liable ?eit. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
•" .Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£B/15/ - Complete, or mi - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
:
HORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK
FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coflee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
for Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
S*sct'
'
The GRAMOPHONE
“PLUMS
u
The Records that Everyone Likes
Gramophone Plum-label Records mean GREATER VALUE for
moderate outlay—greater range for selection—better artistes —better
&
m
records in every way ! TheyTe-double-
sided—two selections on every disc.
The latest gems from Comic Opera,
Revues, Rands and Orchestras, and
•ill popular vocal and instrumental
scores of the day.
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED.. 6/-
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED.. 47-
Ask for "His Master s \ oice" Plum-
label Records, and you’ll get both
quality AXD quantity for your money.
Record lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited
dealer on request.
11 GRAMOPHONE"
Registered Trade Mark.
The Gramophone Co, Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice {except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Penden: You're much further off the
track than the contributor you correct. Bill and
Charley Holloway were brothers, not Bill and
Edmund. The Deorwyu girl married Charley. Bea-
trice is their daughter.... C.T.R.: Looks like the
handwriting of Queen Elizabeth, which resembled
the whiskers of aW. goat in a hurricane... .Sarto:
All right: but you needn’t, have asked that....
Fred C. B.: Much obliged... .Black Bonnet: Praeti-
cally the same thing appeared not long ag0....
Sport: No, don't know anything slower than that —
unless it’s a hearse driven by a Chinaman. .. .
Pharmo: Cannot say definitely now. Best way is to
keep, a t»py 11.C.R.: Has some feeling, bur the
verse is very rugged.... P.S.: “Neighbor’s Car’’
depended entirely on the telling, and that goes
poorly. .. .1.0. G.: “Oh! to just lay through the
sun-gold day.” Lay what? Eggs or carpets?....
Cymro, -Jnr.: No use; but your spirit is all right.
... .Omah: An idea spoiled in handling. ... Derelict:
So small, and yet the grammar staggered and fell.
\.15.: terse won’t do. Typewriting vile....
L.H.P.: Verse far too rough... .G.L.: “Church
Parade” not up. . . .E.W.C.: “Hilltops" don’t call
in good enough verse. . . .E.A.F.: Why not send it to
the artist himself ?... .11. D. A.: No. .. . E.W.D.:
Nothing in it. .. .Pardalote: “Storm Burst” is
empty of delight... .R.H.G.: No wonder you have
no time foi “balmy poets” when you can got off a
thing like this: —
Your perspiratory ducts, you’ll comprehend,
Arc a quarter of an inch from end to end,
And if they were all placed end on end,
Would reach miles ; health on these depend
“Good gracious,” said she, “that is startling,
It sounds like irrigation you’re describing;
1 feel such a very silly, ignorant thing;
While you seem to know nearly everything.”
This is how these two did their courting.
No one could accuse them of sporting.
Dan was very careful in his wooing
To avoid all billing and cosing.
... .R.J.R.: Sorry, but we couldn’t use it. . . .R.L.T.:
Life is too jolty... .IV.R.A.: Doesn't quite get us.
... .E.M.C.: You’ve a long way to go, but you have
a promising style, and may get there. ... A.W.0.:
Crude work without a glimmer. ... E.A.W.: Horri-
ble.... R.S.: Can’t decide whether the verse has the
wobbles worse than the jumps or the jumps worse
than the wobbles. ... .M.D.: Yerse is considered and
dealt with on its merits. How can we tell what it’s
like till we sec it? V.lv.: Poor attempt....
8.M.: The five years’ spell hasn't helped V.C.:
“Red Rube” too mechanical... .J.M.S.: “Golden
West” might have done if you had taken more
trouble. .. .R.G.L.: One stanza: —
He a man that had did his duty
For his noble King, and this grand country ;
Fought on those Bloodstain fields across the sea,
For England’s honor, and help those Belgiums free
From the yoke of Germany,
That had dammed a country once so fair,
Bringing their fine cities off to the pare.
....Learner: Not badly done; but you must get rid
of that stiff method f.G.C.K.: Verse too ro :gh
and thought too crude. .. .T.E.G.S.: “Coo-roo” verse
won’t do. .. .Wistaria: Feeble thing with false
rhymes. .. . W.T.C.: Too mechanical. . . .Arthur Dale:
Yes, if that's your age, keep on. You have a long
way to go, but there’s promise... .C.L.G.: “The
Wideness” goes very clumsily as it comes to the
point.... R. Doret: Not up by a 10t....F.5.:
“Ellamythology” is the most tedious sample of
alleged humor we’ve met for 48 hours... .E.K.:
When we read “Captive Barmaid’s Lament” it
seemed hopeful; but the “Barmaid” proved to be
only a “mermaid” gone dry. . . .A.S.: “Dreams”
lose their rhymes in the tangle of words and lines
till you can't hear them. . . X'.J.W.; Some points in
it. but wants better handling.... T.Y.G. (or some-
tiling): “His True Reward” is nothing J.E.C.:
Not up....R.C.: “Hospital Ship” nearly. Watch
your rhymes Derwentside: Thanks for the honey;
but where did you learn that “Australian women
are more consistent Australians than the men?” Not
so sure of it ourselves.... Arthur R.: “Rumor has
it,” has it? Well, it doesn't have it in this paper.
You don’t look like a winner. .. .John A.: Ye—e—s;
but one job at a time... .P.H.M.: Thank you. Glad
to have been able to do it.... Pro Bono P.: (1)
Don’t know; (2) don’t know; (3) don’t know;
(4) see answers to (1), (2) and (3)....6262: (1)
Asiatic, anyhow; (2) take too long to explain, but
December 25 (or thereabouts) was a festival in
Britain long before that country’s conversion to
Christianity—if it ever was converted to Christian-
ity.... One Bee Ped: Read it again. Also find out
What the Conference gave them the vote of thanks
for. It wasn’t for anything done in former days,
but for recently advocating something which the
Minister is at least quite as eager to carry into
effect as they.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W. J.: Don’t like the old man who resembles a
parrot. The station-owner’s swollen dog isn’t humor-
ous, either. ... Walter S.: Shaky outlines 0n1y....
R. Judd: Flat, featureless people. .. .J.D.8.: Panto
gag and figures J.G.: Badly-drawn American
hobos. They don’t fit here. .. . 5.0’8.: Soldiers
don’t talk like that.... Rod: Why strive for fuzzi-
ness?. ... D. 1.5.: Poorly drawn and expressionless....
T.A.P.: yery rough. Ideas p00r... .E. 5.8.: You
can't raise the wind with that J.D.: Old gag,
bad drawing. .. .8.G.: Your people are weird and
horrible creations... .Mac: Stiff and uninteresting.
11. C.: Terrible.
With his fifth term as Gaud Mayor draw-
ing to a close, and in the midst of prepara-
tions for his half-dozenth flutter. David
Valentine Hennessy has been thrown into a
state of agitation by the outbreak of promis-
cuous window-smashing in Melbourne. The
more his futility was criticised by the press
and the city fathers, the more desperately
melodramatic David Valentine became. When
things quietened, he announced that he had
come very near to reading the Riot Act, and
Melbourne trembled to think of it. “It was.
suggested that I should ask one of the jus-
tices of the peace to take my place if it
became necessary to read the Riot Act.” he
told a gathering . i Jay Pays, “but I regard
it as my duty to lead the city, not to take
second place, and whether I am shot or
injured I will read the Act as soon as it.
becomes necessary.” This heroic declara-
tion profoundly affected the villagers, and if
Hennessy is defeated in the scramble for the
rabbit-skins it is likely that he will be pre-
sented with a \ .C. as a consolation prize.


J
m
:
Xjsj
- w H.
. .. .'W
.-. .'-.v
v
' •'. 4 . ■ •-
SHeaPSPS?
' ■ O ’ . • , ‘ • > ’ *■
x
K :••:■•• :
;*pw « ***'f&£**'s
"■”»—"■■"■ "-- '■'
Is
i » 11. ......
&*wr
m
m
' ; -J.
»*
i
v- .;“ m
■
r**mmm
'
mm
■' ■■:■
mmmm
wm.
■ ■
■:. .- X V . ■•'!- - '•■ i
I 1
r ' l"' •'<
: • 1
. • -r : '''-■•
■ .
1
«a*w
The Second Factor.
IF GOODYEAR Klingtite Belts could only be
recommended because they embody the first
factor of superior belt value, they would
never have attained their unquestioned reputa-
tion.
That first factor is long continuous service per
£ s. d. of COSt
The special-weave duck, the superior rubber
impregnation, and the higher tensile strength
of Klingtite Belts assure you of their economy
in power transmission.
But the second factor is far more important
It is efficient power transmission—transmis-
sion with a minimum of waste because there
is almost a total absence of slip and stretch.
Klingtite belts give you this second factor, and
if they did not give it they would be over-
COStly, even if they gave you seven times
as many months of service per £ s. d. of
cost.
Not only on the main drive, but in every sub-
sidiary position they are giving superior service,
saving power, increasing production.
And there is more than one reason for it.
That the stretch is practically eliminated is a
minor one. That the special-weave duck insures
maximum pliability with maximum strength for
a given weight of duck is far more important.
But the one most important is the superior
friction, practically waterproofing the belt and
minimising the slippage effect of the most
violent and sudden changes of load.
Klingtite transmission belts are recommended
for service under the often adverse conditions
met in Australia and New Zealand.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE and RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
122 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
6 Chesser Street, Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
And at Broken Hill, N.S.W.
• PA
mmamatmti* d —Hajjjfifj ——
■
I^*
I G * BELT! • H O S E • V A LV E S ■
smmmimmmmmmm
wimwiwnw—j
>a-jrtA w>


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd,,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) V
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
FOR MOVEMENTS
OF STEAMERS SEE
DAILY PAPERS.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping fot
S.A. and \V. A. ports)
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents,
once. at all Ports.
Hanking:, Public Companies, Sc.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Bir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) :
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and In NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1883.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
Ml new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AY. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; AV. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N
YARAVOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
And Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of [|eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 760,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interear for
fixed periods, Rnd
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
cf various classes. •
The “United” is an Anstralian Institution.
BABTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-BED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU,
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU 9 of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
WINTER HOLIDAY TOURS
THROUGH SUMMER SEAS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
SEYEN WEEKS’ TRIP TO THE TROPICAL
ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD a) 9 Bridge Street.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund - - - *
Reserve Liability -
£3,894,980
£2,800,000
£3,894,980
£10,589,960
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle St., E.c
337 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London. *
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
.7. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
JBank Australia
SYDNEY. ■
for p * n n General Banking: Business principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at o°/
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Saving* Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELI., Depntr Governor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER, Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
«a
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: 18 Birehin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA
S.S. RUPARA
S.S. PARING A
SAILINGS CANCELLED
OWING TO STRIKE.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIL.Ii & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa ; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO„
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON &'CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
r.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel oy
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers posses,
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. Aite
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji lrad ®’
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian. 6d. weekly—an illustrated P^P e
containing mail and cable news from Aus
tralia and news of Australians in Europ
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Austbalasi.
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High 1
born. London, W.C., where they can see tne
home papers, meet their friends, use ■
telephone, and obtain information witno
charge.


Keep Kodak, records
of all that interests you
Everyone needs an Autographic Kodak to
take pictures of home life, friends, pets,
travels, outings, and to make pictures to send
to soldiers at the front. A Kodak picture
saves a wonderful amount of writing and is
the best record you can possibly have.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/= to £l5/2/=-,
and you can learn to use any one of them in half
an hour.
The 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is extremely popular. Takes
excellent postcard pictures—sf x3f inches. Price, £5 10s.
The 2c Autographic Kodak Junior is for the fine, elongated pictures —
2f x4f inches. Price, 555.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak—the Soldiers’ Kodak —fits in a
lady’s handbag or a gentleman’s vest pocket. For pictures 2f xlf inches,
which are readily enlarged. Price, 30s.
Ask for your copy of the latest Kodak catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; Walton’s Buildings, Wickham St. (next Melba
Theatre), Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven
St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rockhampton; 346
Argent St., Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Lambton Quay and Willis St.,
WeUington, N.Z.; 3 Dome St., Auckland, N.Z.; and 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.
■
1
I
/
£
My (
Dishes!
% _
RICE SHAPE
INGREDIENTS— 4 ozs. rice. 3
tablespoonsful NESTLES CON-
DENSED MILK, I oz castor sugar,
I )A pints water, flavouring to taste.
METHOD. —Wash the rice and
blanch it in water, then drain and
place it in a saucepan with the
water and milk, and simmer till
thoroughly cooked. Allow to cool
a little, then pour into a wetted
mould. Turn out when set, and
serve with jam or stewed fruit.
YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES
INGREDIENTS. —*4 lb. flour, I oz.
butter, 1 egg, oz. German yeast, I tea-
spoonful of castor sugar, spare ]A pint
water, I tablespoonful of NESTLES
CONDENSED MILK.
METHOD. —Cream the sugar and the
yeast, melt the fat in a saucepan. Dissolve
the milk in the water and pour on to the
melted fat and make it lukewarm ; pour
this on to the yeast and sugar. Pour the
yeast and milk into the flour, add the egg
beaten up, and mix well together. Flour a
board and turn the dough on to it, beat it
and cut it into cakes. Grease some cake
tins and put the cakes in, and stand them
by the fire to rise for one hour ; then bake
them for a quarter of an hour.
SULTANA SCONES
INGREDIENTS. I lb. flour, tea-
spoonful carbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful
cream of tartar, x /t teaspoonful salt, 2ozs.
butter, 4 ozs. sultanas, Vz pint NESTLE S
CONDENSED MILK mixed with water.
METHOD. —Mix all the dry ingredients
well together, rub in butter, add sultanas,
and mix a little dough with the milk. Roll
out, cut into scone shapes, brush over with
egg, and bake in a hot pven.
CHOCOLATE CAKE
INGREDIENTS—6 ozs. flour. 2
ozs. ground rice, 5 ozs. sugar, i
teaspoonful baking powder, lb.
grated chocolate (sweetened), 3
eggs, vanilla flavouring, ‘/i lb. butter,
Yz teacupful water, 1 tablespoonful
NESTLE'S CONDENSED MILK.
METHOD. — Dissolve the milk in
water and add the chocolate, place
in a saucepan over the fire in order
to dissolve the chocolate. Beat the
butter and sugar to a cream and add
the chocolate and milk; add the
eggs one by one, mixing each care-
fully. Mix the flour, rice, and baking
powder together, and add them to
the butter, etc. Pour this mixture
into a cake tin and bake in a very
moderate oven from 1 to IVz hours.
CONDENS
e
HIST
SHwmjm
AR rqWRQQ^
oiiPPING
des-
ingredient owroot
sertspoonful t abl
-oa,. 54 pmt water I
54
>4 pint water
CON
igg s
int w “ l 4c
NESTLES
bP «O M^D, sS o.ve Ih.
Ae b°il.th«n po«t si . rr . ng aB the
arrowroot P* ~ D { the eggs
..me. ®f id.ottabovemix-
andl »£* a but ,ered d.sb
*ami bake (or about I 5 minutes-
" BOILED CUSTARD
INGREDIENTS. — Vx pint water,
2 tablespoonsful NESTLES’ CON-
DENSED MILK, Vz oz. castor
sugar, 3 egps, flavouring to taste.
METHOD. —Boil the water and
milk together, add the sugar, and
flavouring essence as desired.
Then add the beaten egg, and
strain into a jug. Place this in a
saucepan of boiling water, and
stir till the mixture coats the back
of the spoon and resembles thick
cream. 1 Allow it to cool and use
as required for stewed fruit or
fruit pies, etc
BOILED PLUM PUDDING
INGREDIENTS,-7 ozs. flour, ',{ lb.
suet, 5 ozs. bread crumbs, X lb. raisins,
lb- currants, 2 ozs. sugar, I teaspoonful
baking powder, 2 eggs, I teacupful water,
1 tablespoonful NESTLE’S CONDENSED
MILK.
METHOD. —Dissolve the milk in the
water; clean the raisins and currants.
Chop the suet as fine as possible, and rub
it into the flour, add the bread crumbs,
“sugar, baking powder, raisins, and currants.
Beat up the eggs, add the milk, and stir it
all into the basin with other ingredients.
Mix well together and put into a well-
greased basin and boil for three hours.


BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
THE GRESHAM,
CHANGED HANDS ON JUNE 3,
and is now under the management of
T. M. AHERN.
Contracts have been let for alterations and
improvements on a large scale.
MINIATURE PICTURE CAMPAIGN
in aid of
ST. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE.
500,000 MINIATURES OF FAMOUS PICTURES FOR SALE AT 1/- EACH.
Mr. John Wren will Buy the Winning Miniature for £5OOO or £lOOO.
49 Others will be Bought for Sums ranging from £l2O to £5.
CAMPAIGN CLOSES NOVEMBER 30. DRAWING ON DECEMBER 8.
Miniatures for Sale at Leading Newsagents throughout Australia.
THE GRANT SIX
A GRAND SlX—£39o
f\
*
A GRANT SIX owner writes:
“In regard to the running
of the ear, I think you are
well justifieil in calling it a
‘GRAND SIX.’ I have found
it so.
“Recently I had occasion to
do 57 miles after an inch and
a half .of rain in the Black
Soil Plains. I found one car
bogged and abandoned, and
another started out, but
turned back. My GRANT,
however, went through, and
was the only car to do the
trip that day.
“Past week I loaded the
GRANT with Bcwt. of goods
and did 40 miles in great
style.”
Telephone: City 8862
Marcus Clark &, Co. Ltd.,
GARAGE and
SHOWROOMS
162 Castlereagfi St., Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
The Defence Department muddles with
consummate skill. The other day in Bris-
bane it netted a crowd of trainees for dodg-
ing drill. Among them were a returned sol-
dier and a man who had been rejected as
unfit for any kind of war work. The Depart-
ment of Expense did not discover the mess
until the Beak had called the charge; then
its representative mentioned that a mistake
had occurred and Billjim and his rejected
cobber were discharged. P.M. Archdall,
whose only son is at the Front, didn’t say
a word. But he looked a cartload.
“Hoe”: The strange disease which
“P.E.G.” (B. 4/10/T7) discovered in the
prickly-pear around Westwood is not going
to exterminate the curse. The diseased
vegetable is now showing fresh tints, and
threatens to recover. The Government
Entomologist states Chat the symptoms are
such as follow the action of arsenic salt.
The middlemen who grow' fat at the ex-
pense of the man on the land are the
objective in Ryan’s latest push. The State
Produce Agency Bill, now being talked into
shape, is to establish a concern which will
act as distributor, purchaser and vendor for
the farmer. Incidentally, as sidelines, cold
stores, preserving and canning works are to
be started, mainly as adjuncts to the soldiers’
settlement at Beerburrum.
“R. 8.”: Chief Justice Pope Cooper has
been speaking out of his turn in the worst
way. He attacked the real masters of his
court, who are the jury, and did it with an
old woman’s air of shocked propriety. Said
the Chief Justice:—
I was recently taking the Western circuit for my
brother Chubb. A jury was empanelled to try a
serious case. The first jury so misconducted them-
selves that I had to discharge them. A second jury
was empanelled. That jury contained at least one
juryman—one member of it—who was a notorious
law-breaker 1 say that [the acquittal in this
case] was a shocking miscarriage of .justice, and in
my opinion it was due to carelessness or worse in
the settlement of that jury panel, and in permitting
that man to be on the jury.
The foreman of the jury replied that he was
“the notorious law-breaker” referred to, and
that his law-breaking consisted of one con-
viction for assault in circumstances of which
he was not ashamed. He described the case
on which they had directed a verdict of
acquittal. A pastoralist “thought he missed
some calves,” secured a young policeman, and
with him forced entry on the land of two
small farmers who were brothers. The bro-
thers defended themselves, and in the fight
ensuing the pastoralist and the policemen
got the worst of it, “which in the opinion of
the jury they deserved.” The real Judge is
the jury; yet every Judge keeps alive the
pretence that he is master of the jury, just
as he pretends that he knows nothing of the
sordid things of life. But in this attack
there was more than the ordinary throwing-
off at a jury. The attack smells of politics.
Premier Ryan, replying to a question in the
Assembly, had this to say:—
A man inclined to treat him hardly might say
that the C.J. in dealing with various actions brought
against the .Government showed a want ot integrity,
whereas probably the more proper view is his im-
perfect knowledge of the Law.
Ever since then the tremendous dignity of
the C.J. has been so upset as to look like
his own decisions.
“Voluntary” recruiting in Brisbane is
developing some interesting features. A
Gin. double column advt. addressed to a firm
or Government office represents the pre-
liminary artillery preparation in this new
form of push. At 9 a.m. a covey, or flight,
or whatever the technical term is for a
DIDO’S LAPSE.
CHRONIC BILL: “ I see you and Dido ’ avin ’ a bit of a scrap this mornin'. Wot's up?”
CHRONIC 'ENEKY: " Oh, nothin' much. ’ E’s not hisself ter-day —'e's sober."
quantity of recruiting-sergeants, hops over
the top, accompanied by a bugler, and places
a table at the door of the objective. The
bugler then proceeds to bugle once in 15min.
until the requisite number of recruits ap-
pears, or until the establishment closes. The
recruiting-sergeants meanwhile address the
usual unimpressed pavement crowd. Various
females act as battle police, bombing the
recalcitrants in their dugouts with pleasant
remarks relating to cold feet and white
feathers. The dug-in parties retaliate by
throwing pennies to the bugler from upper
windows, the sergeants making vociferous
promises to present the coin so acquired to
Dr. Hirschfeld, the recently-returned German
ex-Consul. Results, so far, have been poor,
in terms of recruits, but it is anticipated
locally that rich returns will be forthcoming
when tlje show is performed at the two-up
school in Charlotte-street and the Defence
Headquarters, Enoggera Camp. The results
from either of these fields of endeavor might
even do something towards stimulating the
Win-the-War-by-Jaw party to think up to
the Canadian or Maoriland level. At present,
the affair is about as glaring a confession
of inept spinelessness on the part of those
who ought to be handling the question of
reinforcing Billjim in the trenches as could
well be devised.
The Window.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As in a long grey wall of roughened stone
A little window lifts, a face looks out —
A rose-leaf face, blue eyes and laughing
mouth —
A hint of fine white neck and breast of
snow ;
One slim arm raised, from which a jewel
hangs;
And then the window closes with a snap,
And there is only that grey, staring wall,
And not one lichen to relieve the stone —
No sound of merriment, no jewel flash,
No hint of what the blank must somewhere
hide —
And so it is at times: your Other Self
Looks from your stern and dry severity,
Your piles of ledgers, day books, vouchers, all
The money-grubbing and the money grubs.
A changeless mask
You turn towards the world : and yet I know
Somewhere the long grey wall its window
keeps!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 6, 1917.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
Twice this week we have been pursued
with collecting-boxes, once for the soldiers,
and once for the Crfeche and Kindergarten.
Another cash-hunt is due early next month
on behalf of the Returned Soldiers’
ments Pastimes Fund. The Y.M.C.A. is
busy for Billjim, too, and is constructing for
him" a recreation-room or rest-hut on the river
bank at North Quay—a bad location,
already over-built on.
The City Council has altered its mind in
the matter of hoardings. Instead of these
stands and their frequently-hideous placards
being wiped off the landscape, the fathers of
the hamlet have consented to allow posters
of artistic design to be part of the town’s
decorative scheme. So far a dubious public
hasn’t heard who is to be the hanging com-
mittee.
Killed in France, Corporal John Colin
Goodall. He had a turn with Abdul at Gal-
lipoli, and was three times wounded while
remonstrating with that baggy scoundrel.
Two brothers are with the A.I.F.
Young Merritt, who has just been awarded
an Albert Medal for attempting to rescue
2nd-Lieut. Fletcher from a burning aero-
plane, is a Mount Morgan boy. Fletcher
was piloting when the ’plane fell in flames
His skull was fractured and his mate was
badly burnt while trying to drag him clear.
Dr. Ilamlyn Harris has retired from the
directorship of the State Museum and
settled down at Stanthorpe.
Dr. Graham Brown, of Townsville was
quietly married to Miss Connie Blocksidee
the other day. The two are ’mooning in
your vicinity.
Following on the recommendations of the
Commonwealth Advisory Committee T) r •
Harvey Johnston, of Brisbane University’
and one of the members of the Tick Com’
mittee, has been given the job of compiling
a complete biological history of the little
beast that worries the cow. Observations
will be made in three different localities
to see what effect climatic conditions have
upon the pest. An assistant has been ap-
pointed to the North Coast Railway, and
another to the Downs; both of them she-
biologists, who will keep their eyes on the
tick with the assistance of a B.Sc" degree.
Yours affectionately, Australia Jane.
Ryan dropped a bomb into the Assembly
when he introduced a Bill authorising the
Government to acquire and work any coastal
vessel lying idle in a Queensland port. The
Bill was the sequel to a series of abortive
negotiations between Ryan and the shipping
cos. He first offered to take over the
ships and provide necessary labor, at
sea and on the wharves, while still allowing
the owners full control of the financial side
of the business. With one small exception
the cos. turned the offer down. The excep-
tion was Hyne and Son, of Maryborough,
whose steamer Hopewell was subsequently
despatched to Sydney with sugar and tim-
ber. But when it came to loading-up there
with the food that the North wanted, the
wheat agents said that it would have to be
done with their labor —not the union labor
they were just then busy fighting. So Ryan’s
scheme came a cropper at the first hurdle so
far as wheat is concerned.
Maryborough lost its popular Major
Rupert Hockley, D. 5.0., in the great push
at the end of last month. He was second in
command of a Pioneer Battalion, and had
been through two years of Flanders dust and
mud. The engineering branch of Hockley’s,
Ltd., was his care in his civilian days.
In the Assembly last week Cooper, Labor
member for Bremer, quoted from a docu-
ment, marked “Private and Confidential,”
which contained the minutes of a meeting of
the representatives of insurance cos. held in
Brisbane on September 12. The business
was to listen to an address by W. S.
Murphy on the political situation in Queens-
land. In the course of his address —
Mr. Murphy emphasised the necessity of a united
effort in organising a strong militant political cam-
paign, with the object of securing at the next
general elections a change of Government. He had
been promised strong support from financial bodies,
Brisbane merchants, pastoralists’ associations and
mercantile houses, and was now approaching the in-
surance cos., which had suffered to such a large extent
by recent Labor legislation, with the object of secur-
ing their financial co-operation. ,
And this is what Murphy had to offer the
companies for their money :
Mr. Murphy further stated that he had received
a definite promise from the Executive of the
National Political Council that one of the planks of
its platform would be the amendment of existing
Insurance Acts, eliminating therefrom Government
interference and unfair competition and control.
After considering the matter, a resolution
was passed urging the insurance cos. to
combine and subscribe a substantial sum to
be devoted to propaganda work with the
object of securing a change of Government,
“which must considerably benefit” —no, not
the public of Queensland, but “the insurance
companies generally !”


"YourMoneyWill Help
to Break aW4iy Through
I
*
Ifll*
llltfr
mill
'MI
Subscribe to-day to the
libortvLoai)
HELP to batter a way through the German wire. Add to the
money that will buy the guns and shells to blast the
path to victory. Help to shorten the war and to bring
our gallant soldiers home. Surely there is no nobler task
for money than this. Your patriotism, your pride in those
brave men who have offered their all, demands that you
lend your utmost I—all 1 —all you can save —all you can borrow.
A Sound Investment.
YOU are not asked to give, but
only to lend your money.
You will be repaid in 1927, or can
at any time easily recover your
money by selling your Bonds.
In the meantime you are paid
interest at the rate of 4 y 2 per cent.,
or 9/- yearly for every £lO.
In subscribing, your first payment
need only be one-tenth of your
whole investment, and the balance
can be paid in five monthly
instalments.
If you take up £lOO your first
payment need be only £lO. If you
buy one £lO Bond your first
payment need be only £l.
Think what 8s the most you can
subscribe, and lend it to your
country to-day
44 per cent. INTEREST
(Free of Income Tax).
THE CLOSING DATE IS End NOVEMBER.
Forms of application can be obtained at any
bank or post office. Ask for one to-day, and if
any point is not clear have it explained to you.
A large loan is asked for. The greatest amount you can lend is needed—every pound counts—but if a War Bond is quite beyond
your means, you can save something every week and often pay
17|6 for a <£l War Savings Certificate
Which you can buy at any Bank or Money-Order Post Office.
No. 14.
Authorized by the Commonwealth Treasurer.


BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSES PiI.ES. VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO ana OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert's Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
EATING BETWEEN MEALS.
Do you know that the stomach needs rest
regularly and that eating between meals is a
common cause of indigestion?
Do you know what happens when you eat
more than you can digest? What relation
biliousness has to overeating?
Do you know that when the blood gets
thin the digestion becomes weak, that good
digestion is impossible unless the blood is
rich and red, such blood as comes from the
use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills?
These tonic pills and proper care in the
diet will change dyspeptic, despondent,
dragged-out people into energetic, hungry,
cheerful men and women, because Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills build up the blood, mak-
ing the stomach able to secrete the needed
digestive fluids, and strengthen the nerves
that control the delicate processes of diges-
tion.
After you begin taking Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills the first sign of returning health is
usually an increased appetite. Then you
find that what you eat causes no distress,
and if you exercise a reasonable amount of
care in the selection of your food you will
have no more trouble.
Your own dealer sells Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and a diet book called “What to Eat
and How to Eat” will be sent free on re-
quest by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Box 594, G.P.0., Sydney, if you mention
Ttie Bulletin. —Advt.
London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the E glish Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist, in a glass of hot
water, and after the resulting effervescence
has subsided dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry
the face you will find that the blackheads
come right off on the towel, the large pores
contract and efface themselves and the greasi-
ness is all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be repeated
a few times at intervals of several days in
order to make sure that the result shall be
permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
look out for any harmless thing that will in-
crease the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo on account of the peculiar glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As stallax
has never been used much for this purpose it
comes to the chemist only in Jib. sealed origi-
nal packages, enough for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair apart
from its beautifying effect.
How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com-
plexion; often they are positively harmful.
The sensible, rational way is to actually re-
move the thin veil of stifling, half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way, by
merely applying mercolised wax at night, like
cold cream, and washing it off in the morning.
Good mercolized wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It absorbs the dis-
figuring cuticle gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemises as red blotches, tan, moth patches,
sallownesS, liver spots, pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
tifler this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Every normal woman is always interested
in any plan by which she can quickly enhance
her beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
ordinary cleminite, such as any chemist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless
beautifier, there has been a growing demand
for it from smart women everywhere. They
usually get about an ounce and add just
enough water to dissolve it. A little of this
perfectly harmless lotion gives a beautiful
complexion to any face instantly. It renders
face powder quite unnecessary. Moreover, its
use cannot be detected. The skin is instantly
beautified but appears perfectly natural
under the closest scrutiny. [3
ynr weetr j
( T ossard
w CORNETS
2'hoy’Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
ay’-yr v. -irr
mr
:: U
a «
m
mm*-
rj*/KE
'-.■ 'v y ■>' ‘ S V-£ rVS: \ . .-h’iAnx’,
&Lfc^«S#SjSi
«SW^Si
*s
•• • ■ ./•'a
wi®li
;**;
3H8%
•«M<
®sg»r
:-r--r
✓
Messrs. Ashton |& Parsons Ltd, of London, would appreciate your courtesy if, being served
with a substitute not bearing their name, you would post the, package t °^ o ®‘r°‘'' nl Street,
Melbourne, when the genuine article will be sent in its place, and the 1 cost of postage
| refunded to you. |
MESSRS. ASHTON & PARSONS LTD. bay* been
honoured by
Royal Commands
TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
the Royal Families of Great Britain, Russia,
Greece, Roumania, Spain and to the principal
Royalty throughout the World.
This means that PHOSFERINE is approved by
practically every Court Physician in Europe.
‘PhO'Sferine
B A
Proven Remedy
N eur asthenia
Brain Fag
Nerve Troubles
Anaemia
Sleeplessness
Indigestion
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving back the prematurely aged New Lite and Lnergy.
See what a well-known Medical Man write* :
DR. GORDON-STABL.ES
The famous Dr. Gordon-Stables, probably the greatest
authority on all matters relating to health writes
"I have the utmost faith and reliance in Messrs. Ashton
& Parsons' Phosferine as a tonic in cases of Debility,
Nervous Depression, and Neurasthenia generally.
(Signed) W. GORDON-STABLES. M.D.. C.M..
Surgeon. Royal Navy.
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its historv
'"T'HE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
2/-
per bottle.
2/-
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS'
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney-
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deausgate Arcade, Manchester, England-
safeguard you* HEaltH
orJ.Colljs Bro(jnp'c
CMorotoe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS 8n
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved
in the pains of GOV
neuralgia, tooth
ACHE, RHEUMATIS
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery-
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, ’
Made in England.
Since he was last paragraphed in The
Bulletin, Flight-Lieut. R. A. Little, a
Scotch College (Melb.) boy with the Naval
Air Service, has spread his wings to some
purpose. He now holds the D. 5.0., the
Distinguished Service Cross (with Bar), and
the Croix de Guerre, and has destroyed 23
Hun planes. He won the Bar with the hat-
trick, bringing down an aviatik on April 28,
a scout on April 29 and a red scout on April
30. His father, James Little, lives at
Windsor (Vic.), and his wife and baby boy
are in England.
John Blacket, the old historian of South
Aus., has been calling the papers to help in
saving Frenchman’s Rock, on Kangaroo
Island, which marks a spot where some of
Baudin’s crew carved an inscription when
getting water in 1803. To preserve the his-
toric memorial a dome was put over it some
years ago; but this merely keeps off the
sunshine while letting in salt air, so that the
lettering seems to have got more obliterated
in the last 10 years than in a century
before. The rock will either have to be
covered in with plate-glass or removed
bodily to the Adelaide Museum, some sort of
a hardy duplicate being erected in its place.
“Exile” (from the U.S.A.)
These Americans differ very greatly from us Aus-
tralians. They get more out of life —more pleasure,
excitement, gaiety. It is not that they are lighter-
hearted or fonder of fun than the Australians, but
their habits, manners and customs are not so Puri-
tanical, so grey, so strictly “correct.”
We Australians are heavily weighted by British
conventions, overborne by time-hallowed rituals,
from which there seems no escape. At one time I
hoped, when the old Argonauts of 1851—-the dour,
sour Scotch, North Irish, Cornish and Welsh —had
died out, we would come into our own and make
our modes of life and thought fit more with our
brilliant skies and light, dry atmosphere. But no,
we have carried on the bad habit of importing our
teachers and our priests, and the Australian down to
the present has been trained like his grandfather
and grandmother, on narrow, conservative, “correct”
lines.
Australians are naturally merry, bright, spirituelle,
and they are taught by sad, lugubrious, superstitious
people from the dreary villages of Britain, or its
equally soul-damning, overcrowded cities. Look at our
Melbourne newspapers for proof! Year in, year out,
day after day, column after column is filled with snaps
and snarls by Mannix, or Nicholson, or Rentoul, or
Leeper, echoed by groans and bleats from their faith-
ful handful of sectarian followers. Yes, a mere
handful. These alleged leaders of public thought
number their followers by dozens, while we others,
thousands and tens of thousands, who own no leaders,
submit shamefully to the tyranny of all such unim-
portant little persons. With what result? Art is
stifled, literature stays stillborn, and music remains
undeveloped. When the native Australian can’t
get these things to feed his soul he sneaks out to
his suburb and grows flower*, or grass lawns, or a
few trees and a canary, and thanks God his is a
truly good country. And so it is, a good country
marred, choked, held back by small sectarian coteries
whose empty bethels and chapels leave them with
time in plenty to waste. Music to me is as much
a part of my diet as the horrid oatmeal porridge
of my forefathers. Why is it not so cheap and
abundant ?
Why have we no civic bands and orchestras, not in
Sydney and Melbourne alone, but in Bathurst and
Bendigo, Newcastle and Rockhampton? Why have
we no beer-gardens, where one could take the kiddies
to play around in the shade, while their parents sipped
beer and inhaled bright music ?
Because in dear, dirty old England, the rain and
the snow, hard sleet and wind do not allow beer-
gardens and bands; they encourage garish gin-palaces,
stuffy and warm in all weathers; cosy and crowded
by people lacking the artistic and the musical.
Paul Chabert, a French hatmaker who
has been settled in Richmond (Vic.) these
many years, has given Chaplain-General
Mannix a good, hard thump under the fifth
rib. The garrulous archbishop had re-
marked that “if France had stuck to God
she would not have been a prey for the Ger-
mans'.” Chabert succinctly declared that,
when the Vatican regarded France as “the
eldest daughter of the Catholic Church,” with
religious street-processions, education in the
hands of religious congregations, rich men
and clergy exempt from dealing stoush to
France’s enemies, and “miracles” all over
the country, Sedan was the fruit. But under
free, secular and compulsory education, with
priests, judges, rich and poor all subject to
military service, France went forward to
victory on the Marne and at Verdun—“with
more to come.”
From Petrograd:—
The new Russian Government got rid of a very
audacious traitor when it mislaid M. Protopopoff in
the fortress of St. Peter and Paul. This amazing
personage went to England with the Russian delega-
tion last year, and was expansive in his professions
of Ivan’s good faith. On his way home, however, he
had long conferences with the Hun Minister at
Stockholm. In Russia his pro-Hun activities were
necessarily secret, but there was a great howl when
it was revealed in the Duma that a new paper, the
Will op Russia, which he was founding, was being
financed by Russian banks working with German
money. Protopopoff was incapable of any loyalty
except to himself. He got his portfolio from the
late Czar through the influence of Rasputin, and was
politically the most detested man in the Duma. But
in a personal way he is charming, and built up his
position at the Romanoff Court with his witty
tongue, which sparkles in four languages beside his
own. Some of his sayings, like “To govern is to
foresee,” have become standard proverbs, and will
be recalled for their appositeness long after the
memory of his innumerable undertakings has died.
Protopopoff owns thousands of acres in the Simbirsk
district, and one of the largest cloth mills in the
republic, and those, with his considerable interests
in metal and finance, gave him plenty of ammuni-
tion.
“De Oriel”: I was informed by a film im-
porter of an easy dodge to cheat the Cus-
toms, so I had better expose it before his sin
finds him out. Raw film is duty free, but
printed stuff is 2d. a foot. The raw material
could be exposed to the printing-machine in
(say) America, but not developed till after
reaching Australia. It could enter duty
free, and as five-reelers pay over £BO duty,
what a saving is here to the poor syndicates!


Motor Gra
The Light Four
Touring Car
£335
Electric Lights Electric Starter Magneto Ignition
A Logical Purchase
A better motor car for less money.
Willys-Overland success means just that
to you.
Fcr years the Overland product has out-
sold all cars in its class.
This year, through an achievement new to
the motor car industry, the company has ap-
plied the economies of vast production to
the most comprehensive range of models ever
built by any one motor cat manufacturer.
All the general expense heretofore charged
to a single class of motor cars has been dis-
tributed over several groups, including not
only low priced cars but cars in the high-
priced class selling for a moderate price.
We can offer you the dominant value in
motor cars of either class —all cars of quality
—some one of which is exactly adapted to
your any need or pleasure.
In every class these motor cars represent
such remarkable value that every consider-
ation of pride, economy, safety and enjoy-
ment must urge you to consider Willys-
Overland motor cars first.
Tell us what kind and class of motor car
you want. Let us help you solve your per-
sonal motor car problems as thousands of
others are solving theirs —permanently.
We will gladly arrange for a practical
demonstration.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE;
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
u Country Club”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
1
jw3
SB#
s&»'■
SI f
m
m
m
m
SS?
NAV.mv^
>\N\X\\N\W\\\\WNNW\\NNVS.WWSW^VW'
m
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
KELLOW F-ALKINER LTD., Melbourne.
A HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z. . , , . _
FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z m
HEATHORN & CO., Hobart & Launceston.
MURRAY AUNGER LTD., Adelaide.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
TheWillys-Overknd Company. Toledo, Ohio.
Maiuilactuiers of Willys- Kniilit anti Overland Motor Cars
and Lfpht Lome*


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres .Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JI VOLI TIIEAT li E, SYDNEY
Every Evening at 8. Matinees Wednesday and
Saturday, 2.30.
America’s famous Beauty Star,
MISS RTJTH BUDD,
“The Girl with the Smile,’’ supported by an entirely
new Company of Artists, including THE CAMILLE
TRIO, sensational Comedy Acrobats.
1"IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
REAPPEARANCE OF THE
TIVOLI FOLLIES,
Led by the charming MISS THELMA RAYE.
Also J. C. MACK & Co., KELLY and DRAKE,
and HARRY ROXBURY in his great London Revue,
“The Prince of Monte Carlo.”
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD,
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 13.
J. C. Williamson’s New Farce Comedy Company,
headed by
ROBERT GREIG and BEATRICE HOLLOWAY in
BABY MINE.
For the first time in Australia.
Plans at Paiing’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
UfERMAJESTV ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
* 1 Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinee Wednesday at 2.
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
J. C. Williamson’s Beautiful Musical Comedy
Production.
, Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
P AIACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinee Wednesday at 2.
J. and N. TAIT’S
POPULAR MUSICAL COMEDY CO.,
including BARRY LUPINO, in
THE WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUM.
A Brilliant Musical Extravaganza.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
\A# IRTHS’ HIPPODROME THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Last Two Nights of ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13.
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation in
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
Popular Prices: Saturday Nights, 3/-, 2/-, 1/6 and
1/-. Week Nig'hts, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- and 6d.
Reserved Seats, 2/6, plus tax. Box Plan Nicholson’s.
T lIIANGI.E rLAI'S AT
' THE EYCEIiM.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
.Prices6(l, to 2s. 6d.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barring Toy Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
MN'ION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACJE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing Select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
j Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GEEATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
H
Ell MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 13.
Return of CYRIL MAUDE in
GRUMPY.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
JIIBA TR E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATIILENE MACDONELL
in a revival of the GREAT NAPOLEONIC PLAY,
L’AIGLON.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBO U R N E
Sole Lessees BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT present
STEELE RUDD'S latest success,
GRAN’DAD RUDD.
Popular Prices.
H
THEATRES,
MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening, and Matinees Saturday at
2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
HAROLD LOCKWOOD in
THE HIDDEN SPRING,
and
CHARLES ROCK in
TATTERLEY.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTfC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ENID BENNETT ~
in
THE MOTHER INSTINCT.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Evenings at 8.
M
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
► RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and fid.
‘ Amberola 50
Price £l6/10/-
uni
With an Edison “AMBEROLA” in your
home you can have at any time
Music to suit
everyone’s taste
Illustrated is the Edison “Amberola” 50
—a very popular instrument. It is fitted
with Mr. Edison’s famous diamond stylus
reproducer, which does away with the
troublesome process of changing needles,
and plays the charming Blue Amberol
Records. The Cabinet is available in
either golden oak or mahogany finish.
Stands nearly 16in. high. Price, £l6 10s.
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for
a demonstration, or write for illustrated
catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
CAP! LLARINE
<r
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over 30 years.
IF anybody charges you more than (3d. for
a single copy ‘ of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and
it will be posted to you for one year.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
LEARN TO DRAW!
“ There’s Money in the Pen.”
The above is the title of our
booklet which tells about the
great possibilities of DRAWING,
both as a pastime and as a
profession.
It describes
in detail
the draw-
ing course
by HARRY
J. WES-
TON, Aus-
tralia’s
famous com-
mericial artist.
It explains the differ-
ence between learning
to COPY, and learning
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to be
avoided by the begin-
ner. It explains in
clear, concise lan-
guage what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is the
most successful.
There’s no reason why
YOU could not earn
good money as an
artist. The ability to
draw can be AC-
QUIRED if your in-
clination is strong
enough to follow the
sci e n tific principles
laid down in the
WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAW-
ING.
iIS
K/»ra«y J weiTotf*
Send three penny
stamps to-day for a
copy of this booklet —“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
19 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Remington,
.44 Cal.
Repeating
Rifle-
<<<
7
A 4
\\
Tke
Universal
Arm
Proportionate to
their size and power the .44
caliber cartridges are the lowest in
price. They are universally used
and wi Ug ive excellent results with
the Remington UMC .44 caliber
Repeating Rifle.
"Write for sp ecia? descriptive
booklet sent free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
\ D, D. BRYANT. Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
ONE OF THE BEST WRISTLET WATCHES
Ever Made for PRESENTATION PURPOSES
is the one pictured in this advertisement. It
is a High-grade Luminous Watch, with Fifteen
Jewel Three-quarter Plate Gilt Movement,
Radium Hands and Figures, in Solid Silver
Hunting Case, with Screw Back and Fly-up
Front. An Accurate Time keeper. /
PRICE
GIFTS
from the
Treasure House
represent always the
Maximum of Quality
at a Minimum Price.
STEWART
DAW SOX’S
LATEST
CATALOGUE
of Rings, Watches,
J ewellery and Silver
Plate is the Econo-
mist’s Guide Booh to
the purchase of De-
pendable Gifts.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner, 4*2 George Street, SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 2nd October, 1917.
Tenders for Pumping Plant and Equip,
ment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney.
Amended Notice.
rpENDERS will be received, subject to
X the conditions of tendering, for the sup
ply and delivery of Pumping Station Plant
and Equipment for the Commonwealth Naval
Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney, N.S.W
until Twelve Noon on Friday, 16th Novem’
ber, 1917.
Plans and specifications may be seen at
the office of the Director of Navy Contracts
Navy Office, Melbourne; at the Common-
wealth Naval Dockyards, Cockatoo Island
Sydney; and at the Offices of the District
Naval Officers at Brisbane, Birkenhead
(South Australia), Fremantle and Hobart
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Public Notices.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
'THE THIRTIETH ORDINARY GENERAL MEET-
ING of members will be held in the Royal
Exchange on Monday, 22nd October, 1917, at noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th
September, 1917.
To elect one Director in place of A. G. Milson, Esq.
who retires under Clause 82 of the Articles of
Association and who offers himself for re-
election.
To elect an Auditor in place of Mr. C. A. Le M.
Walker, who retires under Clause 131 of the
Articles of Association —and to fix the amount
of his remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
By order of the Board the Share Register will be
closed from 3rd October to 23rd October inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23, 25 O’Connell Street, 3rd October, 1917,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv A. MURPHY, Wo)'
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ef,tab. 1891.
CALOX the
Oxygen Tooth Powder
“Clean teeth never decay,” is a well-known
dental axiom.
Careful attention is required to reach teeth
perfection. Decay generally commences in
the crevices between the teeth, where food
particles lodge and become infested with
bacteria. Acids are formed which work
silently. Suddenly tooth troubles are
apparent. It is impossible to reach the
recesses with ordinary brushing.
f
McK&R
The Oxygen Tooth Powder
attacks the danger from a scientific side. It
yields up oxygen when moistened, and thi
penetrates to every part of the mouth, P url '
ing wherever it goes. Calox whitens tie
teeth, imparts fragrance to the breath an
freshens the mouth.
A Big Free Sample
§gp§
mmi
(JSS.°JJJ!SS4
the oxygen
TOOTH POWDER t
**"^**^'- *
|"‘«jjon & nosein J
of Calox will be sent if
you will attach your name
and address to this adier
tisement, and mail to
Calox Department, Geo.
Wills and Co., 480 Collins
Street, Melbourne, with
two penny stamps enclosed
to cover postage.
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
P. 11.10.’17.


Cuticura Healed
Eczema On Baby
Covered With Itching Rash*.
Started With Pimples* Scratched
and Nearly Drove Him Frantic.
“My baby developed eczema and for
ten months he was covered with an
>{)
itching rash. It started
with hot itchy pimples
and he scratched and
they ran into eruptions
It nearly drove the poo*
mite frantic.
“I was told of some
wonderful cures by Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment
so I bought some and in
a few weeks he was healed. ” (Signed)
Mrs. L. M. Meyer, Wilga Park, Grong
Grong, N. S. W., Sept. 29, 1916.
Keep your skin clear by daily use of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment for every-
day toilet purposes. Nothing better.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
-Rifle Sights
are more essential to a
sure shot than the gun it-
self. MARBLE’S Sights
•will greatly increase your
accuracy.
MARBLES Flexible Rear Sight
Folds down when not in use
but springs instantly into pos-
ition at the slightest touch.
Alignment rigid. Elevation
Quickly adjusted.
® m
OL!
Vickers - Maxim Front Sight—
is a peep sight, the aperture being lined with
our lustrous Popes Island Gold so that the target
is quickly and steadily seen. IVrite for illustrat-
ed folder on Rifle Sights, sent prepaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. CO.
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Addrete “Marble” Gladstone
Australian and New Zealand Representatives (138
HARRY MOLDEH, Box 1349, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
I
m
m
£3
H
ELEY .410 "Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Long Rifle
“E” Brand
JQjSSSJxEBpP
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L 5 LONDON
Keep Your
Furniture
Looking
“Just Like
New ”
Has tlie Changing Weather Given a Bluish, Cloudy Appear-
ance to Your Gramophone and Mahogany Furniture?
If so, you will be surprised how easily, quickly
and permanently it can be removed with
mm
‘The Dust-Proof Polish”
JOHNSON’S PREPARED WAX imparts
a soft, artistic, lustrous polish of great
beauty and durability.
It gives a perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish
which never becomes soft nor sticky in tlie
hottest weather or from the heat of the body.
Consequently it does not gather dust or show
finger prints.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for keeping
dining room tables bright and tempting. Hot dishes
have no effect whatever on it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared
Wax. Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos . Piano Woodwork
Floors Furniture Motor Car
"Johnson’s Prepared Wax is sold by all good dealers. It
may also be had by posting us the coupon below.
a Use this Coupon for Trial Tin
I
tOHNSOA^I
]
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax—
sufficient for a good test. Also send book
on Home Beautifying, free and postpaid.
Name
Address
I usually buy from -
Fill Out this Coupon u r P ost to
S. C. JOHNSON SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Give your patronage to British
Hosiery—made from Austra-
lasian Wool
44
tP
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
No other make has so fine a finish
Jason has a texture like silk, and surprising
comfort to the skin —yet costs less than
many inferior brands.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks—which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the
Jason Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters
everywhere. In case of difficulty write to
Jason Underwear Go*, Leicester, Eng.
A a 62
THE thing that the people thou’.d have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. M e
still may get a licking. Are you going to
\ct the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
The Inky Way.
“Dinkum” : We were discussing war cor-
respondents and the risks they sometimes
run. Bill said that the best he ever knew
was “a Kempsey bloke.” “He lost three
cases and paid up like a sport.” We sought
to explain that correspondents wrote. “That
was the trouble with this chap,” Bill re-
joined. “On’y fer th’ letters he would never
have been dragged in.”
* * * •
“Penzance”: The S.A. Public Service
Association has failed to obtain a with-
drawal of the recent regulations prohibiting
members of Hansard staff from wandering
on the Inky Way. Fred Johns has been
left with a bald and bleak understanding
that he has permission only to complete his
contracts for biographical work, and the rest
of the staff are not even to be permitted to
blow bubbles of verse. The Mail especially
will miss a few piquant political columns,
and members of Parliament will no longer
go about in uneasy dignity, like balloons
about to burst. For the regulation the
politician is, of course, responsible. W ill
hei then, apply the same rule to himself? If
he had done so in the past it would have
robbed the country of the services of some
of its greatest men- —from Fred Holder down
to Ephraim Coombe.
* * * •
Sydney Sunday Times explains why lhe
new white-elephant abattoirs, which were
designed to cost £lBO,OOO, will never be a
paying proposition at £2,000,000 unless the
slaughtermen relax one of their rules
Net only have the new abattoirs been built hotch-
potch fashion, swallowing up hundreds of thousands
of pounds, but they can only be worked at halt-
pressure. Electric-light is installed to provide for
slaughtering on summer nights; but the one short-
shirt-only attitude of the slaughtermen makes the
installation of lights a laughing-stock.
But really this refusal to have the light
turned on is carrying consideration for the
feelings of the lady-bullocks too far alto-
gether.
* * w
Melbourne is to have a new shilling
monthly magazine, the Onlooker, run bv
Angus Turnley, a grandson of that Henry
Turnley who came over from Tasmania
with the late W. I. T. Clarke, S’Ruperts
grandpa. The old man’s sons, Henry and
Robert, pioneered at Ardno and Glenelg sta-
tions, on the S. Aus. border, and m the
Merino country farther east. This younger
Henry lived to be 94. Angus is a son of the
late Robert, and has been on the Inky May
for the past 30 years. He has hatched
several new papers in the Backblocks, am
10 years ago was responsible for the rleiaei-
burg News. Since then he has mostly been
free-lancing in Melbourne, where the pursuit
of literature brought him in contact . with
King Cole, and he married the Princess
Linda in 1915.
* * * *
The Victoria District of the A.J.A. has
prepared a log for the Melbourne “unassoci-
nted” weeklies, and will ask amicable con-
sideration of it forthwith. The proposal is
to divide the papers into three grades, with
rates for salaried men on a graded scale to
match But as the committee discovered
that the combined “unassociated” weekhes
employ only about 2i salaried men alto-
gether, the main feature of the log is a new
lineage rate of 2d. per line. This rate of
2d per line-space will also apply to artists
work. The A.J.A. proposes to take up next
the matter of the wages paid on Melbourne
suburban thunderers. #
“Billy B.”: The Australasian Journal-
ist lias" opened a new vista to its customers.
Its desire is to have journalists (I love that
word) read some authors in order that they
(the journalists, not the authors) may be
equipped for the day’s work on strikes,
tariff duties and the market for onions. So
I read that at a gathering in Melbourne, in
the reporters’ room,” the 12 best books
were drawn up thus: •
“Cloister and the Hearth’’ .. • ■ J eade
“Les Miserables” Hugo
“Notre Dame ulSt-
“lleart of Midlothian . • • • Scott
‘ ' •• •' Dickens
Tale of Two Cities . . _ Wilkie Collins
Moonstone T * i „ " . . . Arnold Bennett
? ld Wives Tale .. Blackmore
“Lorna Doone •• •• _ Thackeray
\ amty 1 air * Thackeray
“The Virginians’’ Furnas
“Three Musketeers” , ,
Very interesting; but personally I would
have deleted “The Cloister and the Hearth
in favor of “The Critic on the Hearth
(Harrison Owen will bear me out in this .
Ai S o I would like to impress upon the
reporters’ room” that instead of studying
“Moonstone.” by Wilkie Collins Moon-
shine,” by David McKee Wright, which
deals with mermaids and monarchies, might
be useful. Personally. I pledge mysclf to
Wilkie Collins's “Woman in A bite. But
if I know “the reporters room , tlie 1Q ‘
habitants thereof keep the lady dark.
BALLAD OF A HUNGRY BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My lady’s eyes are green and g'.ey
As moonlight on a misty sea,
Slow paling stars at break o’ day—
Or such-like dainty simile.
To me they bring, though I’m no glutton,
Dreams of coy capers round boiled mutton.
Her hair is like pale yellow wine,
Or wheat-fields gleaming i’ the sun.
But in this gnawing mood of mine
Each silken tress by fancy spun
Resembles, more than aught of these,
Spaghetti served with toasted cheese.
A figure has she that for grace
Could match aught graved on Grecian urn;
Sing now of Delphic nymphs of Thrace
My lukewarm muse ! Flame now and burn 1
Ah, all I mind is this, God wot 1
She’s lissom as a young shallot.
I glare at her with ravenous eye
(Her cheeks resemble prime corned-round
About which crimson carrots lie!)
And inly like a famished hound
I gloat o’er tender hands and feet—
Egad, she’s nice enough to eat!
N.S.W.
THE IMMATURE MAEE.


i n?
mim
Made like a
Motor Tyre
The Moseley motorcycle
tyre is built like the
Moseley Motor Tyre. It is
built on the same principle. It is built with the
same care and accuracy. It has the same
durability. It offers similar resistance to the
skid.
Made like a motor
tyre; made in a motor
tyre factory: such is the
Moseley motorcycle tyre.
Even the fabric foundation
for these tyres is woven in
the Moseley mills at
Ardwick. It is the only
place where it can be woven
to the Moseley standard.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer
If you find any difficulty in obtaining
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
28 7-28 9, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “Grear,” Sydney
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
W.C.I.
"MILLER”
LIGHTING FIXTURES AND LAMPS
No. L 2318
Electric — Gas—Oil
When you ask for a "Miller”
Lamp no matter whether of
the Electric, Gas or Oil variety,
you are exercising good taste and
judgment and are assured of the
very best obtainable.
Styles for all requirements
Look over the "Miller” line NOW.
Obtainable at all the best Dealers.
MADE BY
EDWARD MILLER & COMPANY
MERIDEN, CONN., U. S. A.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUK TEETH
lliere are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
in alth, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible bv
Keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
'* har den the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay)
EL DENI A is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube everv-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC"F. &CO Melbourne
V
STRENGTH WITHOUT WEIGHT
f PRINCIPLE in their manufacture of
f/u/i'-aj, Afaufafa&wM
andJVajndocfo.
PURITY OF YARN
PERFECTION OF MANUFACTURE
“HOKROCKSES’
ON
SELVEDGE
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
mm
84. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.1j. Gun, ' 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight,
about silb Freight paid,
£4/10/-
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
B3G. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib. rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 74 to 8 lb., IG-gauge 74 to 7| lb. — 4r 1A /
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,l U
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/ 15/-
• -
*
W'tmk \
r //.
m&m
mmss
B
837. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, ease-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight
of 12-gauge 7f to 8J lb., 16-gauge, 7i to 8 lb v — A. /I /
12- of 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/15/-
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample lid., post free.
837. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2|in. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight,
' Freight paid,
IJ3B. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun
12-gauge, si,Alar description to 837 Freight paid, £9/12/6
£9/12/6
BS
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
R3O. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks reboundin
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2iin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about
rjlb.
Freight paid,
£7/7/-
point blank to 100 yards
?**• Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
J •*“«> Model, special 22-calibre lim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about s^lb.; sighted
; will kill at 500. Freight paid, £O/6/“
Help Your Homeland — —Buy War-Loan Bonds.
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, 91/.
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, 93/6
With i-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, 95/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38- or
44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, 20in. round barrel; weight, about sJlb. q s-_
Freight paid,
w
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model, 24in.
octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 25 short, 20
long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight 511 b
Freight paid, 80 -
Same as above, with round barrel .... Freight paid, 75/-
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl). also “Sure Catch” Anglers’
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. They
are money savers.
7C
ZJ
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
7im> TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 Kind St also at
Tiewcasile £ Brisba


“Pas” Caricatures Himself
II
Si -
:: and ::
Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules
It is with mingled emotions that we see how a Cartoonist
caricatures us, for while we think we know ourselves, it some-
times shocks us to see how others see us. The noted Carica-
turist “Pas” (Donald Macdonald) has favored us with a
caricature of himself. He has added a few words, giving his
experience of the use of' DR. SHELDON'S DIGESTIVE
TABULES, which we feel sure will carry great weight with
all our readers, coming from this eminent artist.
“My profession demands such aiert attention and
close observation that I have freouently, in following a
study, quite forgotten the flight of time. Then hurrying
over meals I have naturally suffered from severe twinges
of indigestion. In New Zealand a leading chemist gave
me some of your Digestive Tabules, and from that time
I have always carried a few in my pocket; and, as anti-
dotes to the effects of worry, I have never known any-
thing like them.” —Yours faithfully,
Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Health)
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are sold everywhere at 1/6 per
tin of 36 Tabules and 2/6 per tin of 80 Tabules. Buy a tin, eat a
good square meal, and then take the Tabules according to
directions, and note the result. You will forget all about it if
you are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance
and the food will be digested just as it used to be when your
stomach was well and strong. furthermore, your stomach will
soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as
thousands upon thousands of other stomachs have been, by the
sole and exclusive use of DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES.
• 30
lh
m
t—
a
o
ln
)
” 1
WHAT YOU EAT”
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE V.'A VERITY PEN.”
Keep Away From Physics
pHYSIGS
worse the
used continuously, only make
condition they are meant to cure*
Nujol, an internal lubricant, is the recognized
common-sense remedy for constipation.
Nujol is not digested or absorbed into the sys-
tem. It acts merely as an internal lubricant.
Nujol is not a drug. Drugs give quick,
temporary relief but they aggravate the very
condition they are meant to cure. But Nujol
is a genuine remedy in that it relieves consti-
pation in the most natural way by lubricating
the lining of the intestines, softening the in-
testinal contents, and thus promoting healthy
and normal bowel activity. The use of Nujol
is not attended with the griping or distress
that follow the use of drug remedies.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
Nui
t TO
FOR CONSTIP
cbm
~*-**tg*,g**r
“l-a;.r
Sir'ilnr-
a*f* TltHI
Standard Oil O
(New Jersey)
U. S. A.
FOR CONSTIPATION
Ask your chemist for booklet. Nujol
is sold only in 16 ounce bottles bearing
the Nujol trademark. Never in hulk.
Avoid substitutes.
11
EOR fl 6s. 6d. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, fl 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to - The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Gods at Gallipoli.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON Lemnos leaned the blossoms of the
moon,
Large as the blooms of fire
That lighted Vulcan in his fall at noon
From Jove’s Olympian choir;
And a breeze blew from Mudros to the beat
Of old gods’ moving feet.
O’er Samothrace and Imbros rose a sound
Of lyres, sob-sorrowing,
And up the beaches on the bordering ground
It echoed string on string
Like the mourned marvel of a deity
Death-danced along the sea.
The calm AEgean in her slumber turned
And shook her olden soul;
Myrrh and sweet spices in her billows burned
And made an incense bowl
For the fair company who singing came
Across the tide aflame.
Apollo led them and the deeps of Death
From Hellespont complained,
Where Hero and Leander warmed the breath
Of the foam, starry-stained ;
And fast his flight he took unto the strait
Of Youth’s untimely fate.
But passing that peninsula of woe
That wondered at the gate,
He saw white lightnings mystically glow
The landings desolate ;
And three tall spirits kept a watch apart,
Still-standing, heart to heart.
“Who trespasses,” he said, “my hallowed
ways ?”
And moved along the beach.
“Be stilled, ye flutes, ye pipes! Cease,
nymphs, your lays—-
What graves are these that reach
So many and so far into the sea?
Who may their mourners be?
“Has Persia poured upon the earth again
Her young and swarthy hordes?
Has Xerxes made of all my shores a fen
For his unholy swords?”
The spirits moaned among the mounds, deep-
stirred,
And a low sob he heard.
Apollo wept, and coming to their side
Lifted his face of tears.
“What dost thou here among our dead?”
they cried
In speech of other spheres.
“Passing to mourn my own,” he softly said,
“Here were my footsteps led.”
“0 Master-mourners, as ye be in truth,
I guard the Cyclades;
And for the Time-clipped souls of Love and
Youth
I grieve through all these seas,
Till Delos sink as swift and wondrously
As once she rose for me.
But what wild woe has brought ye to my
lands?
Who lie beneath your feet?
0 Masters, answer, for I feel my hands
Aching for summer heat,
My heart-fires crying in remembrance clear,
And know that Youth is here.”
Then in a plaintive voice like sighs by night
The eldest sadly spake :
“Many a bride with tinkling feet and light,
Where lotus buds awake,
Feels the sweet marriage vigor strike her
blood
In warm, impassioned flood ;
But through the melancholy fields she sees
No hot brown lover glide,
With rapturous longing trembling to his
knees
In the soft eventide.
She hears, instead, my Ganges fuller roll
With his slain soldier-soul.”
“Allah has turned the keys,” the younger
said,
“And from the minarets
The slow muezzins moving overhead
See, when the prayer-hour sets,
Palm-lifted multitudes on bended knee
Bowed in humility.
But through the foldings of their long, loose
veils
The widows breathe strange sighs
For the brave dead whose memory assails
Their dark, reflecting eyes
Through small swart boys who follow in
their play
Their red-fezzed fathers’ way.”
With awful anguish, in Ills palms of Pain,
The Master hid His face.
How could He tell the many tears that rain
In every Christian place,
Wherever blue eyes dimmed or grey woe-
filled
For a young hero killed?
He heard the sobbings of the prophets pale
But pausing full in thought
He made no murmur to their gentle wail,
Nor to Apollo aught.
His mind was mirroring the sounds and
sights
Of Youth’s eclipsed delights.
"Master, You do not speak,” Apollo sighed,
“Have you no lost ones here?
Perchance, great Sorrow sepulchres in Pride
All anguish of a tear !
Oh, blow ye pipes, ye flutes, a mournful
strain,
And let us on again.”. .. .
“Young singer of the ages, stay,” He cried ;
“Young lord, be slow to leave.
V here Youth and Beauty slumber side by
side,
Is thine the right to grieve?
I died for Man, and these who watch with
me
Panged for Truth’s mastery.
“Youth, here we meet and find Life's little
worth
In hearts Faith-bound to ours;
All these have fallen levelled to the earth
W ithin a few fierce hours —
Burk, Ghurka, Christian, seeking Paradise,
One in red sacrifice.
So let the minstrels of thy pipes play on
And sing triumphantly.
Light that is everywhere, when woe is gone
Remains in thee, world-free ;
And all these legions lying line by line
V ho saw the Gleam are thine.”
Lights leapt in circles round the Masters
three.
They vanished veiled in space.
young Apollo with his company
All through that tragic place,
To lifted lyres and pipes above their bed
Mourned his immortal dead.
On Helles died the blossoms of the moon.
r Faint fell the wand’ring airs.
The lone Aegean made a little croon
Like a far voice of prayers;
And a breeze blew from Suvla to the beat
Of new gods’ marching feet.
N.s.W
ZORA CROSS.
Desmond’s Bride.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[By the law of 1376 the English in Ireland were
forbidden to marry Irish women. James Fitzgerald,
Earl of Desmond, was the first to break the law.]
Act I. —A quiet place in the great woods
There is a well with stone steps, and near it
a very old willow-tree. The stones are green
with moss, hut there is a small path to the
brink. Shemus Fitzgerald, whom the English
call Earl of Desmond, comes in. He is a
young man and tall, with his hair falling to
his shoulders in ancient Irish fashion. There
is nothing about him to indicate his Norman
ancestry. The time is evening and the year
1392.
Siiemus : There is a well here, surely, and a
path where feet have been walking this
day. If I am lost in the great wood itself
there is a house not very far off. ( Maire,
a very old woman, comes in carrying two
wooden buckets.) ’Tis kind the saints are
to me. A fine evening to you, mistress of
the well.
Maire : It is a very fair evening, tall man of
the woods.
Shemus : Is there any house at all near
here, mistress of the well, where a man
might find a place to lie down for one
night and him going on into the green
World to-morrow? Surely I am lost in the
thick trees since the forenoon and I do not
know where I am at all.
Maire : There is a house here, surely ; but it
is a poor place, and I do not know if it is
fit for a tall prince to lodge in.
Siiemus : It is no prince that is asking, lady
of the well; but it is far that I have come
tramping on the soft leaves all the long
day. Surely I will not quarrel with any
lodging that I may find. Will you let me
fill your two buckets at the well, for the
water is low down?
As he goes down the green steps Kathleen
O'Meagher comes along the path singing. She
is very beautiful. In her fresh young voice
there is a quality as of small running streams
in the morning when the hawthorn bushes
are in flower.
Kathleen ( singing) :
White wind out of the south
Blowing sweetly and purely,
Will he set a kiss, a kiss on my mouth
Of true love surely?
Shemus comes up from the well carrying
the full buckets and pauses on the top step
to gaze in wonder at the singer.
Maire : Whisht, whisht! It is a strange
man is come through all the world, and
him looking for a place to sleep. Would
you be letting him hear you making a
foolish noise?
Shemus : It is the wonder of the world.
(l'assing his hand across his eyes. ) What
place of enchantment is this at all?
Kathleen : A very good blessing upon you,
stranger; and it is a very fair evening.
Shemus : A kind blessing on you, lady of
this lonely place.
Maire : He will be wanting to sleep in the
house, and your father out with
MacCaura’s cattle.
Kathleen : It is a poor house, stranger,
and us far from all the places in the
world; but it is very welcome you are.
Maire, do you make the supper ready and
call Leary to set wood on the fire; for it
will be cold when the stars are out.
Maire hobbles away with her buckets of
water.
Siiemus: Bright lady of the woods, it is long
I am walking through all the trees of the
green world upon dry leaves ; but it was a
kind saint made me come to this place.
Kathleen ( laughing ) : It was maybe the
Small People, and them angry that you
set out no sweet milk for them.
Shemus: It was maybe them, surely; but
they were not angry if they brought me to
see your two eyes shining.
Kathleen : Och, it is you that have the
tongue. Maybe you have been walking a
piece with a Geraldine or going over the
seas to fight a king’s wars; for you have
the way of it when you bow your head or
say a sweet thing.
Siiemus : I have walked a piece with a
Geraldine and I have been in a king’s
house; but there was never a maid in
Desmond or in London town itself with
the brown of her hair shining like yours
and the grey eyes of her making my heart
glad.
Kathleen ( coming nearer) : Was it in Lon-
don town you were surely, and it far over
the sea?
Siiemus : I was in London town surely,
with its great houses; and me a young
boy standing among the archers when
King Richard went out on his horse.
Kathleen: Och, tell me. Was the king
great and a fine man with gold chains
round him and the shining jewel-stones in
his crown.
Siiemus ( laughing ) : He was a great king
surely; but he was no great man at all.
There are men in Ireland would fight him
with one finger of the left hand only ; and
the wit of him is no - more than of a little
boy eating green apples when his mother
would be spinning white wool.
Kathleen ( sighing ) : Och, well. It is may-
be the Geraldines would be fine men?
Siiemus : It is maybe .a Geraldine is a fine
man ; but the two eyes of a fine woman
can make him forget the seventy saints
and the horse in his own stable.
Kathleen : Och, whisht now. Is it no good
word you have for any man at all?
Siiemlts : If I have not many good words for
a Geraldine I have some very good words
for a beautiful lady of the woods.
Kathleen : It is a strange thing and a foolish
thing, but the talk of you is like a little
drink of honey-mead in a small silver cup
is in the house. It is fine talk ; but if I
would listen to too much I would be
drunk surely.
(Continued on next page.)


HEALTHY KIDHEYS KEEP THE
The kidneys are the blood-filters of
the body, and when they are clogged
they keep back the liquid waste and
impurities from the blood, so that the
body fills with water. This is called
dropsy, and it is a very dangerous
disease.
Your danger begins when there are
sharp pains in the back, puffy swell-
ings beneath the eyes or in the ankles,
sick headaches, nervousness and flutter-
ing heart.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
a special kidney medicine —they have
one set purpose —to relieve, tone up
and strengthen the kidneys, and they
do not affect the bowels at all. This
kidney medicine —the genuine Doan’s
—dissolves the crystallised uric-acid
which clogs the kidneys, bladder and
connecting passages, and in this way
removes and cures the cause of dropsy,
diabetes, Bright’s disease, stone,
cystitis (inflammation of the bladder)
and urinary disorders. It is because
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure
the CAUSE of disease that cures are
LASTING.
BLOOD PURE
s 0
Every
Picture
7e//sA
Story"
.
/
3-
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cured to Stay Cured.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FROM ALEXANDRIA.
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 79 Garden Street, Alexandria,
Sydney, says : —“For a long time I suffered from kidney
trouble, the worst symptoms being severe pains in
my back, bad headaches, dizzy attacks, disordered
secretions, and a dull, tired feeling that I could not
shake off. The pain in my back was often almost
unbearable, and every movement seemed to increase
my suffering. As time went on I got worse instead
of better, nothing I took doing me the least good, i
was really far from well, and badly in need of a
medicine that would cure me. At last I heard o
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so I got a bottle to
try them. They proved to be the very thing
wanted, for after taking three bottles of these pms
I was cured, and I have had no return of kidnej
trouble since.” ,
Six years later Mrs. Cox says:—“My cure nas
proved a permanent one, for I have not had a sign*)
kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pi
cured me six years ago.”
FROM NEWTOWN.
Mr. W. H. Jeffries, King Street, Newtown, Sydney,
says:—“About five years ago my kidneys commence
to bother me, no doubt brought on from hard wo ,
such as lifting and bending over at my work. My a
was lame and aching, and this handicapped me a ■
for it was a difficult matter to stoop, and cau
increased pain. I tried a good many remedies,
they did me no good. A friend advised me to <
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so 1 sent for •
I used them as directed, and when I had taken a
half a bottle I knew they were benefiting me. '
encouraged, I continued with the treatment un
was quite cured, and I have not felt the slightes . »
of backache since. Doan’s Backache Kidney ,
have made a different man of me, and I reco
them to all who suffer with backache.” union’s
Seven years later Mr. Jeffries saysDoan *
Backache Kidney Pills cured me of hackae ie
years ago, and I am still free of this trying a
I need say no more ; my lasting cure speaks toi
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney*
Shemus : Och, heart, I do not even know the
name they call you; but you are the fine
wine of the south to me looking at you
only and hearing the soft falling of your
voice.
Kathleen : I am Kathleen O'Meagher ; but,
och, what would be the good of names for
us two? I am the woman of the well and
you are the man of the green woods.
What more would we want to be?
Shemus (coming very near to her and
speaking earnestly) : It is a true word.
What more would we want to be? But a
kiss is a sweet thing, woman of the well.
Kathleen (stepping back) : Och, it is a
spell you have put upon me.
Shemus : It is enchantment, surely.
Kathleen : I will not be kissed against my
own will.
Shemus : You will be kissed only with your
good will, very sweetly.
Kathleen (with a sob) : Och, well, I will
see you no more after this one evening
only.
Shemus : You will see me all the days of
the year, if the saints that brought me
walking to this place know what is in my
heart.
He puts his arm about her and draws her
tenderly to him, looking long into her eyes.
Then he kisses her on the mouth.
Maire’s voice without : Kathleen, will you
bring the tall stranger in to his supper?
Act 11. —A room in O’Meagher’s house.
It is a large, low-ceilinged place with a
stone floor and ancient black oak settles.
On the icalls are some old weapons and
trophies of the chase. In the broad, open
fireplace a log is smouldering. Old Maire
is crouching on a stool near the fire; Kath-
leen is walking restlessly to and fro.
Kathleen : If he will not come, what would
a girl do?
Maire: He will come surely. It is the
Butlers that hate the Geraldines too
well; but it is a black day an O’Meagher
would be asking help from a Butler
against a Geraldine. Och, heart, why
will you not do the thing your father
wants you, and marry this Desmond that
is the greatest man in Ireland?
Kathleen : How would I marry a man I
never saw?
Maire : Whisht, whisht. Surely he has
seen you; and it is not for the likes of
him to be coming making a courting like
a boy that herds cows. There is no
woman but your own self but she would
think long to be Desmond’s wife, and him
like a king in all the country.
Kathleen : Och, Maire, I am maybe not
wise; but how would I love a man that
never gave me the love-kiss or spoke a
word in my own ear? Would a letter
coming to my father put a new thought
in my heart?
Maire : Heart, it was the other man and
him coming lost all day in the woods. Bad
cess to him with his fine looks and high
talk.
Kathleen : Whisht, woman! There is a
horse outside. It will be him come at
last.
Maire hobbles to the door and Raymond
Butler comes in. He is a short, dark man,
dressed almost like a priest; but he icears
a short sword. His black hair is cropped
closely around his bald head, and he shoivs
his large yellow teeth as he speaks.
Kathleen : It is a fine day to you, Master
Butler.
Butler: It will never be a fine day in Ire-
land till the king’s law makes it safe for
a king’s messenger to ride. I have your
story. Desmond has picked you out of
the hedgerow to marry you, wench. It
is the king’s law that no Englishman of
Norman blood shall marry with the com-
mon Irish. What more is there to it?
Maire : Och. sir, it is not Of the common
Irish she is, but of the true blood
Butler : Tush ; the old tale ! Her ancestors
were before Adam and ruled three square
miles of bog and forest before St. Peter
went to Rome. What would you have me
do?
Kathleen (drawing herself up very
proudly) : Nothing.
Butler (fixing his attention on her for the
first time) : Egad, you’re a fine wench. No
wonder you caught Desmond’s eye. When
is this footpad earl coming to claim you?
Maire : Och, sir, he is coming here on the
third day from now, and O’Meagher rid-
ing to bring him.
Butler: ’Steeth, if Ormonde were here and
fifty lances behind him, we would make it
a merry bridal party for him. But the
King’s word must be spoken even if there
is none to uphold it. Desmond himself
dare not slight that law in a matter that
might disinherit his own children after
him. ( Turning to Kathleen and speaking
more softly.) What would you have me
do?
Kathleen turns away, then seems to waver,
and finally takes a step towards him and
speaks.
Kathleen : Och. it is not for me to hold up
my head. I will not have this man. I
am of the common Irish, surely, if it will
stop him taking me away.
Butler : ’Tis a thankless task. ’Wounds,
but those Fitzgeralds are as Irish as their
own singing men. What’s to stop him
taking you without the priest? Well,
well; don’t look at me like that. In three
days I’ll be here to meet this Geraldine
and hand him the Lord Deputy’s order for-
bidding the marriage. Will that do?
Kathleen (weakly) : It is all I am asking.
Butler : Egad, girl, I’m no courtier, but a
man can’t leave an errand like this with-
out a kiss.
Leary, the serving-man, opens the door
behind him and comes in. K,athleen retreats
from Butler, who follows and seizes her
hand. She wrenches herself free and slaps
him boldly across the mouth.
Butler (wincing) : Hell take you, you bog-
cat. My mouth is bleeding.
Leary : What man are you in O’Meagher’s
house ?
Butler (making for the door) : If the
King’s law The Devil take you and
your cursed Geraldines, too !
He goes out.
Act 111. — By the well in the woods. Old
Maire sitting on the mossy stones. . Kath-
leen standing with her hands shading het
eyes looking down a forest path.
Kathleen : It is this way he would surely
come. Och, Maire, the black Butler will
not keep his word. Surely I would let
him kiss me now itself, if he would stop
Desmond taking me away.
Maire : It was a poor thing to be asking
favors of a Butler and then hit him on the
bad mouth when he spoke you fair. But
he will come surely for the hate that is
in him against the Geraldines.
Kathleen : It is now that he should be
here; for Desmond and my father will be
very near on the other road. Och, what
will I do? Och, why would a great man,
the likes of him, want to take me, and him
never asking leave? Would a man know 7
what is in a girl’s heart? And how 7 would
my father answer for me? Och, w 7 hat will
Ido?
Maire : There is nothing at all that can be
done; for the men will settle it in their
own way. I will be going now 7 to the
house. O’Meagher will be here soon, and
it is not good to keep him waiting.
Maire hobbles out, and Kathleen sits
down dejectedly by the well.
Kathleen: Och, w r hat will I do? If the
black Butler would come with a curse in
his mouth, it would sound like sweet words
this day. Och, my man of the woods, if I
could hear you coming through the trees
to me, it is not Desmond himself would
take me.
She sits up and listens, then springs lightly
to her feet. Shemus comes in.
Shemus: Heart, was I long away? It is
far across the green w r orld to where you
are; but I have come at last.
Kathleen (in his arms, her face buried on
his shoulder) : Och, man of my soul, the
kind saints be praised this day. Take me
away from here and find a priest to marry
us close that I can never lose you again.
They were coming for me to make me
Desmond’s wife, and me not knowing him.
Shemus (holding her from him.) : Desmond!
Kathleen : Och, take me away, man of my
soul. I am not Desmond’s, but yours.
Shemus: Is it Desmond wants you, surely?
Kathleen : It was Desmond asked me from
my father. They are coming for me this
day.
Shemus : ’Tis a great thing, surely. lam a
Geraldine, too. How would I go against
the word of the chief that is over us all?
Kathleen : Och, man of my soul.
Shemus : If Desmond wants you, it is him-
self must have you.
Kathleen breaks away from him with a
wild cry.
Kathleen : Och, shame and death !
Shemus (going to her with his arms out-
spread) : Kathleen, no man will take you
from me. (She looks at him wildly for a
moment, then falls sobbing into his arms.)
Heart, it was a foolish play. It is
you must forgive me. I am Desmond, my
soul; and it will be a strong man in
Ireland that takes you away from me.
Kathleen (looking up through her tears)-
Desmond ! Ocli, the folly of me that never
knew !
Shemus : llow would you know, Kathleen
and me coming to you lost in the green
world ?
Kathleen: Och, how would I know? How
would a woman know, and you speaking
words like a king?
Siiemtjs : It is you must forgive me, Kath-
leen.
Kathleen : Och, Shemus !
Shemus : What ails you, heart?
Kathleen : It is you must forgive me; for I
told the black Butler, and him coming
this day to stop you.
Shemus ( laughing ) : Is it Raymond Butler
with his yellow teeth and a word from
Dublin would stop a Fitzgerald to keep
him from his love?
Kathleen : Och, but he is coming here now
with a king’s word not to make me your wife.
Shemus : Och, well; I will not kill him on
my wedding day.
Horns are heard blotving and there is a
jingling of bridle-reins. _ Fifty Geraldines
with O’Meagher and a priest come in.
Shemus (to the priest) : It is here we must
be married by the green steps of the well.
The priest ranges the party before him
and opens his book. There is a disturbance
without, and Raymond Butler comes in fol-
lowed by a dozen men of the Ormonde clan.
Butler : Stop ! In the King’s name. I for-
bid this marriage. It is forbidden both by
law and by the Lord Deputy’s express
order.
die hands Shemus a paper. The Geral-
dines spread out and surround the Butlers.
Shemus : You are a bold man, Butler, this
day. ’Tis strange that Dicky, the clown
of London, and James Ormonde, his tool
in Dublin, should take away a Geraldine’s
bride in Munster.
He looks at the /taper in his hand, looks
again at Kathleen and sighs.
Butler (shoicing his yelloiv teeth) : You
will obey the King’s order?
Shemus : It is a hard thing. Och, what
would a man do?
Butler : There is only one course.
Shemus (drawing a short sword and turn-
ing suddenly upon him) : I do not want to
kill you on my wedding day, Raymond
Butler; but you have good teeth, and by
the Lady of Kildare you will eat that
paper.
Butler (stepping back till he is stopped by
the circle of the Geraldines) : This is an
outrage. I will get back to the Lord
Deputy.
Shemus : You will go back to the Deputy
or Dicky himself; but when you go you
will tell them that you were glad to eat
this paper.
Butler (seriously alarmed) : In the King's
name. Let me go.
Shemus : Take a bite, little man. It will
be a good ploy to tell your little King over
his sweet wine.
Butler, amid shouts of laughter, bites the
paper. The Geraldine ranks open, and he
rushes away.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


•v- •;
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi=
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
'i'he Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy i
since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
. Insist on “Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
TY*de Mark Registered
Camphor Ice
Relieves sunburn, wind-
burn, chapped hands
and lips.
“ Vaseline ” Carbclated
for cuts, bruises or insect
bites.
“Vaseline” Capsicum
for sore throat, stiff neck,
sprains and cramps.
Other “Vaseline” Rem-
edies for other needs.
Keep a supply on hand.
For sale at all chemists
and general stores.
Refuse substitutes.
CAMPHOR ICE
EXQUIS\TE TORJE.T AWUCLE
-Of. superior qu&UVy
ANO ROUGH SH»H;hahOS,UPSA*
ESEBROUGH MAUUFACTVJRWG COMPANY
(con SO 1.1 dated)
NEW YORK.VJ.S.A.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York. U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
rri//
m
A Good Example
is set by the people
who take proper
care of their teeth.
Never neglect to give
your teeth a thorough
antiseptic cleansing
every day with
||CARBOLICjJ
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & CO„
Manchester, Eng.
&
v'Mf
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—rwhen you feel ‘ ‘ any-h ow”
—when your nerves are “on
edge ” —when the least exer-
tion tires you—you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’gives new life and new
vitality to a “run - down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You Can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘ Wincarnis ’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TO-BAY.
Wincarnis’ is made In England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W-
BeechamsPills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. Beecham's Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends.\ As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable remedy. In
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beecham s Pills is strongly recommended. They are
H Boon to All
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
(Patented)
10/ each
IV| Post Free
Thousands in Use.
P.q J
|A/ each
iV/" Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
F.g 6.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
“MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
PERFECTION in DESIGN,
l % T -rv W A *» n
l MATERIALS ani WORKMANSHIP* V//
3HE~ifl» JBL> A JL ' *L.
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engine
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
1
jn
i£«&
:•
es?
thoroughly British—-and “miles” better.
N.S.W. Agents: HAMMOND (St. CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents : QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD.> Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Ag'ents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 MarKet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.


MANGROVIT
LEATHER
BELTING
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY
"MANGKOVJLTE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
CAPITAL.
■ "ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE. ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES
8s x 3" ~fx4" ¥x.4"
4"x3" £*3
8 Au 16 2
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Danaemors Steel Works, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
§ GLOBE STEEL CO
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle. Kalgroorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
/#» Appearance, in Service,
in Convenience
“FIBROLITE”
«
(Reg.)
THE AUSTRALIAN
Asbestos Cement Sheets
completely outclass Plaster, Steel and
Weatherboard.
“FIBROLITE” will not chip; it is Fire-
proof and Rust-proof.
In making alterations it saves all the mess
and inconvenience of Plaster, and gives a
better and more lasting job.
“FIBROLITE” is manufactured by the
Asbestos Slate and Sheet Manufacturing Co.
Ltd., at Camellia, near Sydney.
Send for Booklet “D” and Sample.
James Hardie 8 Co. Circl Sydney?' West ’
’Phone 6239 (3 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at Brisbane & Adelaide.
SCHNAPPS
THE BEST
SELECTED)
BARLEY
AND
ITALIAN
JUNIPER
BERRY
LOOK FOR THE NAME
Two High-class Australian-made Oil Engines.
Our stocks of the popular TANGYE Oil Engines are now low, due to Messrs.
Tangyes’ Big Works at Birmingham, England, having some time ago been taken
over by the Munition Authorities for War purposes.
We have, however, negotiated Agencies foi* Australia-made Engines, which are
most creditable productions, and which we offer with the same degree of
confidence.
THE “TRIUMPH.”
A vertical-type Benzine or Kerosene Engine, made
in two sizes only, viz., 33 and 5 b.h.p. (Stationary
and Portable). Has Magneto Ignition. Excellent
finish throughout.
THUE -STAB.”
A portable Horizontal Kerosene Oil Engine, made
in three sizes, 6A, 8 and 10 b.h.p. Has Magneto
Ignition. It is a High-grade Portable Engine at
a very LOW Cost.
DALGETY <SL CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
■-Pj^^_^ 1 _ ia : ffcutterB ’ ** ane Milking Machines, Clayton Portable Engines, Tangye Pumps, E.R.B. Separator Engines, etc.
THE
m
SHEEP SHEARING MACH |NES!
give complete satisfaction.
Not only excellent service, but long service, is ensured by using the “Wolseley.”
They have beaten all others in open competition, have proved their superiority by the
severest practical tests, and are most profitable under any conditions.
Make inquiries from the nearest Branch.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD., Australasian Agents ALL BRANCHEB.
w»»i»en pou
lAPtft CAPAfitWB’
as
IN THESE DAYS of
KEEN COMPETITION
QuicH Changes of Feeds and Threads mean so much to the Shop
or Factory interested in Speed and the Redudion of Costs.
Can you afford to he without Modern
High-speed Machine-Shop Equipment?
Call and insped, or write for Catalogue of our HIGH-SPEED
LATHES. They have new and distinctive features designed
to show definite savings on your worK.
1 PARKE (Q. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers ai
60
Machinery Merchants,
'ydney,
STARTS COLD WITHOUT PRE-HEATING
BUILT TO LAST A LIFETIME.
AN ENGINE WITHOUT IGNITION TROUBLES.
NO MAGNETO. NO CARBURETTER. NO HEAiJNG.
The HOOE OIL ENGINE
OPERATES ON THE CHEAPEST OIL OBTAINABLE.
FUEL CONSUMPTION: HALF-PINT PER B.H.P. PER HOUR.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., City Office: EQUITABLE BUILDING, 550 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OIL ENGINES IN STOCK 2 TO 8 B.H.P.
