

SPIRIT SUPERB
R. <3r- WATKINS & 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 K.ent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second»hand Plants always available.
THE “AUSTRALIAN REVIEW”
says:—
“The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent, and,
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de Piete D.
and I. Co. Limited.
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Terms and Lowest Interest.
NSWMGNTDE HETE-Del'O’l?
HEAD OFFICE'.74 CASTLEREA.GH ST SYDNEY 74.
TD
Next to “I>aily Telegraph” New IJuilding.
186 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
150 George Street West, Sydney.
« «
tM
King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Swans ton Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Ip§pB
EUSTACE BENNETT, General
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
FIFTY PAGE BOOK-POST FREE
SLEEP IN OR
OUTDOORS
IN COMFORT
Try our
PATENT BED
FOR HOTELS
FLATS, AND
Bungalows
REVOLVES IN
• 22 INCHES.
OSCILLATING WALL BED CO.,
380 GEORGE ST (near 6.P o.), SYDNEY.
THE BEST !
B
m
7m
u
<Z2.
m
'4=2
f^tveappk
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E NS
unket
INDIGESTION
DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
H ' :
m
»* *t
The Big Chief
99
and
:;ra
—■
iepresent the Pick of America’s Produ
Schoolboy can handle these Engines
Simple, Economical and Always Reliable,
Hundreds in daily use all over Australia.
EVERY ENGINE THOROUGHLY TESTED BEFORE LEAVING OUR WORKS.
CASH OR EASY TERMS. Catalogs Free. CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. SGRUTTON & GO. LTD.
THE ENGINEERS' DEPOT.
Clarence
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of "The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
: v; : v
instructive information.
Supplied to the Naval and
■ ■
Military Authorities of
Great Britain and Australia.
Heart
on the Black
“POILITE’
ASBESTOS CEMENT
SHEETS and TILES.
(Genuine British Made.)
NOYES BROS.
—the modern building material that has
stood the TEST OF TIME. It assures
STRENGTH, PERMANENCE and
BEAUTY to your home.
WRITE FOR CATALOG “A.”
(Sydney Ltd.) 115 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
(Melbourne Proprietary Ltd.) 499-501 Boisrke Street, MELBOURNE.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
lavender
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 38.—N0. 1975.]
[Thursday, December 20, 19 L 7.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For CHRISTMAS READING
(See the Reviews.)
“PAYING GUESTS”
By TARELLA QUIN (Mrs. Daskein).
Author of “Gum Tree Brownie,” “Kerno,”,
“A Desert Rose,” etc.
Price FOUR SHILLINGS. From AH Booksellers.
LOTHIAN BOOK PUBLISHING 00. PTY. LTD.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne. ™
£5O FOR AN AUSTRALIAN PHOTO-PLAY.
A well-known moving-picture-producing firm offers
a prize of £6O (fifty pounds) for the best Australian
story suitable for cinematograph production.
The entries will be judged, firstly, by a leading
literary critic, who will award points for style ana
construction. Secondly, by a leading advertising
expert, who will award points from an advertising
possibility point of view, with special consideration
of the title. Thirdly, by a well-known film-producer,
who will award his points from the photographic an
situation angle. The highest aggregate of points w
be declared the winner.
CONDITIONS: . „ ... n .
(1) The winning story, together with all °
publication and production, to. become the pr •
perty of the promoters. . „„ or „
(2) The promoters reserve the right to purchase y
other entry at a price to be mutually agr
upon between them and the author. ,
(3) The theme of the stories must be dramatic, aw
ing with Australian life and problems, and i
ducing Australian types in an Australian se * ?'
(4) The form should be that of a short-story, wnn-
out photo-play technicalities. . .
(5) Sufficient stamps must be enclosed in eac “
script to ensure its return; but no responsiD j
Manuscripts, addressed “Scenario Competition, c/o
214 George Street, Sydney, N.5.W.,” will be re
up to February 28, 1918, when the entries close.
The result will be announced in The , t v 6
soon as possible after judging is completed, »
winning story produced as a moving picture o
highest class.
*
p
IS THE DOCTOR’S ORDER.
His advice should be a pleasure to obey, because inferior Gin threatens to
knock your nerves sky-high. All Doctors recommend Gilbey’s Dry Gin,
because they honestly know it is a spirit of quality to make you feel healthier.
GILBEY'S DRY GIN THE APPRECIATED GIN.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY, Sole Agent*.
YGI
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H.,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney,
sample tin will be sent pos
free, or forward JML in stamp
for full -size tin.
DUERDIN & SAUfSBURYt
Melbourne, Agent*. M
The Red Page
Ditke
The Life of the Rt, Hon. Sir Charles W.
Dilke, Bart., M.P., by Stephen Gwynn and
Gertrude M. Tuckwell (Murray, per Angus
and Robertson, Sydney, 2 vols.; 365. in Eng-
land), is, doubtless, the biography of the
year., vßuf. being the biography of an Eng-
lish; .pol Rician, it is chiefly a record of the
British. .Parlia menß and few Australians
need have,- the knowledge of the
lnindty of the British Parlia-
ment, tpdjpurejy piu'tj contests that troubled
it, during thcAcng irie of Charles Dilke. But
if'rtjie Aj-istrarism reader wants to know the
inner history of a dead era in British poli-
tics, here is overflowing measure. Dillce,
however, though a keen player of the party
game, was more than a politician; he was a
remarkable personality, a pioneer and leader
of the new democracy, a man of wide views
and wide knowledge of the Empire and the
world; above all, a man utterly unself-seek-
ing, a patriot and a power. He was the most
interesting politician in Great Britain
throughout his long life. And his triumphant
career was broken, midway, by a
woman.
“The man whose history is here recorded
was for more than 40 years a commanding
figure upon the theatre of English public life
... .yet, when he died, all thought and spoke
of, not what he had achieved, but of what he
had missed... .But, since a man’s personal-
ity signifies far more than his achievements,
and this man stands before the world over-
shadowed by a dishonoring accusation, it is
necessary to establish by facts and by testi-
mony not so much what he did as what he
was.... Yet it must not be supposed that
he himself counted his career among life’s
failures... . No trace will be found of a
nature soured or warped by baulked ambi-
tion, nor any resentful withdrawal from the
public stage.”
Apparently Dilke, born in 1843, never had
to earn his living. His character was
moulded in his youth by a remarkable grand-
father, and he was given every opportunity
to travel and to meet important people. At
Cambridge he won three reputations: he
became Senior Legalist, he stroked the first
boat on the river, and he became President
of the Union. At the age of 22 he started
on a tour round the world, the result of
which was the volume, Greater Britain. Of
course, the rvay to Parliament lay open to
him. But his radicalism, which in those
days was termed republicanism, soon raised
the hostility of the House and the press
against him. All through his Parliamentary
life he remained either an independent mem-
ber or a Cabinet member with independent
views. He knew personally every important
politician in Europe; and he and Chamber-
lain were such loyal friends that Dilke wrote :
“Our relations are so close that I should
resign with him if he were to resign because
he thought Forster did not have his hair cut
sufficiently often.” But his attack upon the
Queen’s Civil LisL so annoyed the old lady
that promotion to Cabinet rank was long
delayed. Yet in ISB2 Gladstone was begin-
ning to look to Dilke as Ms ultimate suc-
cessor in the House. Further objections by
the Queen led to trouble about Mm being
given Cabinet rank in order to qualify for
the Prime Ministership; but ultimately he
became President of the Local Government
Board. His overdue entry to the Cabinet
took place when he was 39, and his chief
backer was the future King Edward. Ills
reputation was twofold: he was a Radical
leader and he also carried extraordinary
authority on the subject of foreign affairs.
In 1885 “there seemed to be no man for
whom England held out more assured and
brilliant promise than Dilke.... In the
House his prestige was extraordinary.” And
it was Dilke, not Chamberlain, who was
expected to become Prime Minister —though
the two were close friends, not rivals. He
was a widower, engaged to marry a widow,
Mrs. Mark Pattison. .
Then the thunderbolt fell. “The wife of a
Liberal member had volunteered a ‘con-
fession’ to her husband, in which she stated
that she had been unfaithful to him with
Dilke immediately after her marriage.” He
noted in his diary that only a week before
Chamberlain had suggested that Dilke should
be the future leader of the party, and that
Chamberlain’s wish was backed by Glad-
stone. “In the case of a public man a
charge is always believed by many, though
disproved, and I should be weighted by it
through life. I prefer, therefore, at once to
contemplate leaving public life.” From the
first the accused man denied the charge. And
Mrs. Pattison at once publicly announced
her engagement to Dilke. The Prince of
Wales was among the many friends who
backed him.
At the divorce case the charge against
Dilke was dismissed with costs, the Judge
finding that Dilke had no case to answer. A
wife’s confession of misconduct, unsupported
by other witnesses, is evidence against her-
self, entitling the husband to a divorce; but
it is no evidence against the co-jjgspondent.
Dilke was not called upon to go into the
witness-box and submit to cflbGe-examina-
tion. But “a certain section of the press”
made attempts to drive Dilke out of public
life. With unaccountable stupidity the
biographers fail to indicate the character of
that press attack; thus the reader has no
knowledge of the strength of the accusations
made against him. If Dilke was innocent, as
he had been declared to be by the Judge,
what barm would come if the worst that the
press said were quoted? This unwarranted
repression leaves the unbiased reader with
a suspicion against Dilke —or against the
Court, that treated him so lightly..
But Dilke deliberately encompassed his
own destruction. That press attack must
have been more serious than we are per-
mitted to judge. "The attacks continued, and
Dilke would not wait their passing.” He
discovered that he could re-open the case,
and thus get the opportunity to deny the
charges on oath. But Dilke had been badly
advised by his eminent counsel. In the new
trial it was laid down that he was no party
to the suit; he bad no right to appear
except as a witness, and might not be repre-
sented by counsel. “He had been struck out
of the case; he was now a mere member of
the general public. There never were, pro-
bably, legal proceedings in which from first
to last law and justice were more widely
asunder.” Under the peculiar procedure of
the Queen’s Proctor, by whom the case was
technically brought, Dilke hack.no. chance of
proving an alibi, since he had to give his evi-
dence first. And the Queen’s Proctor had to
prove a negative—that the respondent did
not commit adultery with Dilke. “In the
first trial the petitioner failed to produce
any legal evidence whatever of the guilt of
Dilke; in the second the Queen’s Proctor
failed to prove his innocence.” For many
years Dilke unavailingly strove to have the
case re-opened. But Dilke never held the
view that personal immorality is not a bar
to public service. All the same., the biogra-
phers would have done their subject a greater
service if they had indicated the character of
that press attack, those “daily columns of
scandalous detail,” that led to a public feel-
ing of bitter personal hostility.
“Sir Charles’s fall,” said Justin McCarthy,
“is like that of a tower. He stood high above
every rising English politician, and but for
what has happened he must have been Prime
Minister after Gladstone.”
Wonder what the un-named woman
thought of it all?
His after life? An honorable record of
great service to the State, of multifarious
activity, of great literary and political work.
He was indefatigable in the interests of
Labor; he opposed the cession of Heligoland ;
he disapproved of the Boer War; he admired
the Dominions; and he died, honored by the
Empire, in 1911.
“So closed a life across which many com-
mentators of the moment wrote, some
lightly, some in sincere regret, the word
Failure. It was ill-chosen. They should
have written Loss. His career had not ful-
filled the promise of its opening; his abili-
ties had never found the full scope which
once seemed assured to them; he had done
for his country only what his country per-
mitted him to d 0.... Those who said that
he had accomplished more out of office than
lie could ever have achieved in office paid a
tribute to the greatness of his work, but
they did not understand the force which had
been wasted.” He was more than a Parlia-
mentary leader; he was a European person-
ality. Dismissed from his command by a
scandal—of the probabilities of which his
biographers have not given their readers the
chance of judging—Dilke served in the ranks.
But the reader who struggles through
these two fat volumes will be struck, above
all, by the muddle and compromise that
passed for statesmanship in the Cabinet
responsible for the Empire, of which
examples are the shilly-shallying over the
Australian demand for the annexation, of
Papua, and the cession of Heligoland, and
the paramount importance attributed by the
statesmen of England to the intrigues of
Party.
»
. Australian Nursery Rimes, charmingly
illustrated in color by the leading artists of
Australia, is now on sale at Is. The pub-
lisher is William Brooks, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney; and if it is unprocurable in your
city or township, order from that firm, and
without delay.
Ephjeph : While engaged on a crusade against
solecisms have you any time to spare in the interests
ot poor old overworked illused verbal f Every newspaper,
judge, parson, politician or speaker I have seen or
heard in the Commonwealth invariably mixes him
up with his relative oral. All speech, whether spoken
or written, as I understand, must be verbal, i e
composed of .words, but if it is spoken I maintain
it should be described as oral, so as to clearly indi-
cate that it was spoken and not written. I further
maintain that the teaching of most grammar is a
wasteful and ridiculous excess. No one speaks cor-
rectly because he remembers that “the subject
agrees with the predicate in number and person,”
or some other equally archaic rule, but because he
has followed good models of verbal accuracy, both
oral and written.
Another Billjim in France: Our lads will read
Funny Cuts when there is nothing else; in fact
they will read anything they can get hold of when
out of the line resting. Australian papers are read
through, advertisements included, and as papers are
never redirected there are always many extra, and
they are passed from hand to hand. I have fre-
quently heard wails re the disappearance ot The
Bulletin, which our lads say very rarely get beyond
the “Full hacks.” Every Billjim will agree that
The Bulletin is the paper he wants, and he will
also agree that it is difficult to get through. By
the way, I didn’t ever get a copv myself, but found
the Red Page In a dug-out.
Australian
In The Lay of the Pantry Bay, and 0.1.,
by George Powiek Brown (printed, and
vilely printed, by the Horowhenua Pub. Go.,
Ltd., M.L., Is. (id.) :
The skipper came sozzled to steer us out;
The mate was soaked to the eyes;
And he tells rollickingly of the M.L. coaster’s
life -
Inner Harbor and Gisborne Reach —
Tallow and wool away!
Barrels and bales, with a curse for each,
Surfing them out from a sounding beach,
Wet to the back with spray!....
Sand-banks flanking the course we steer,
Shallows ahead and slirge in the rear;
Rush and bustle from moor to clear —
The coaster’s life is grand !. .. .
Sheepskin, rabbitskin, wool and hide;
Stand to your waist in the rolling tide,
Gin to the neck keeps the salt outside,
And the surf-boats rise and fa 11....
But the Levin Laureate sings of the land-
rovers, too
But poverty aye coped the poet’s crown ;
And weary wayfarers have ever been
Earth’s minnesingers, from Great Horner down
To Lawson, and with Jesus Christ between.
He even tells us the reason why “Poverty’s
grim grasp” embraces this continent: —*
There loans must flow unceasingly to wet financial
drought,
Plus kindred troubles springing inter alia—
And the cause of all the trouble? Well, I guess
it came about
When Dickens sent Micawber to Australia !
The Man of Pay By Promise, when he fled the Eng-
lish throng,
Determined to abide by cash resources.
We read that he succeeded; but heredity is strong—
His progeny return to evil courses.
But he is most at home in his own Levin: —
Here in Levin, where every child must labor,
And every cocky borrows from his neighbor....
Here must 1 stay, and rough my epidermis
By “hoking” turnips (this a local term is)
For cows whose appetites are never off ’em,
For cows who stand and scoff, and scoff, and scoff
’em !....
Here folk are callous, and their wilted wits
Shrink daily, as they labor at the “tits” ;
They have no aims beyond a factory vat,
And all their hopes are based on butterfat.
Here I drag on my weary, hopeless life,
Sans recreation, wages or a wife;
Yet thankful still; for, though a farmer’s lackey,
I’m living at Levin, not in Otaki.
And the author records that when in 1914
he published a political satire, he sold 70
copies in Levin (a town of 1600 inhabi-
tants), and not one further copy in the
whole of Maoriland ! Yes, it must be dread-
ful to live in Otaki! But from this distance
Levin looks like the Parnassus of Maoriland,
and George Powiek Brown stands, kowhai-
crowned, playing bis lyre on the summit to
a circle of entranced cows. In this volume
he has something for every taste in that re-
markable town of 1600 inhabitants: sea-
songs, sonnets, quatrains, “In Lighter Vein,”
philosophic verses, “Three Stanzas from
‘Rimpodell,’ an Unfinished Poem,” recitations,
sporting pieces, limericks, and a translation
from Horace. Happy Levin, made happier
by its versatile Laureate! But in fairness
to the author it must be stated that he has
a wider audience: many of these verses have
appeared in this paper and other journals in
M.L. and Australia that know good stuff
when they see it. It might be worth an
enterprising publisher’s while to set up a
printing press at Levin —not in Otaki.
.Jt
Mental ueficiency, a study of feeble-
mindedness, by Charles Mackellar and D. A.
Welsh (Prof, of Pathology, Sydney Univer-
sity) (Government Printer), is a useful
pamphlet calling attention to the unrealised
extent of mental deficiency in Australia. The
same care we give to Insanity is required
for the treatment of Feeble-mindedness. And
the lack of legal control of the latter disease
is responsible for fostering its increase in
the community. Dr. Welsh’s main conclu-
sions are: that feeble-mindedness is a definite
clinical condition, distinct from sanity and
certain forms of insanity; it is incurable,
because no education can create the nerve-
cells that are wanting in the brain, though
the brain-cells may be trained, and so in-
crease their output of work; that the only
chance of a happy and useful life for such
afflicted beings is to put them under proper
sympathetic control; that the feeble-minded
remain “under age” all their lives: that
especially should they be controlled during
adolescence and the period wherein the sex-
impulse becomes strong; that the feeble-
minded strain is ineradicable from the race
except at an awful cost; and that the feeble-
minded, who are naturally prolific, mus t not
be allowed to pass on their deficiency to
another generation. He adds: “There need
be no inhumanity.” But before these unfor-
tunate beings are put under a strict State
control, the doctors must satisfy our legisla-
ture and the public that that State control
is both sympathetic and competent.
J*
Emphatically a book for kiddies is Almost
Human: Reminiscences from the Melbourne
Zoo (Whitcombe and Tombs, Melbourne).
These stories of the inmates of the Zoo were
told by A. A. W. Wilkie, the Zoo overseer,
and put into literary shape by Mrs. A. R.
Osborn. The kiddy will be amazed to learn
how much that is interesting and exciting
goes on in the Zoo—especially in the hours
when it is closed to the public. These
sketches appeared first in The Leader.. The
many excellent photographs equal the narra-
tive in attractiveness.
-No more my winsome laddie
As he left me, shall I see’
But they sent me home his Bible
And a bit o' worn khaki.
That is the keynote to A Bit o’ Worn An , •
and O.P., by Fred P. Morris tnuldi ,
Barrell-street, Eaglehawk, by the aS 3t
also by Hutchinson, Melb., and in Bendi°nT
Simple sentiment, patriotism and war m h '
and humor, neatly but not notably expressed 8
this collection of verses is readable and S
the religious-minded grateful and comfort!, 0
A neat sonnet on “The Reject’’ ends:— tDS '
His Via Dolorosa must be trod
Himself misunderstood by all but God.
But the author is best when most natural
as in “Our Bill in Khaki” a1 ’
My! ain’t ’e a stunner? Ain't ’e sweet’
Won’t ’e take some lickin’? Ain’t ’e ’ard ter htat*
I ain’t seen none like ’im since this ’ere be°-an •
Five foot twelve —in ’is stockin’s— ° ’
Every hinch a man !....
’E don’t need no paddin’, not a bit!
Tork about a figger! Ain’t our Bill just it?
Under that there bandage wot a pair o’ calves!
Them with those to stan’ up on
Don’t do things by ’alves.
If ’e is me brother—wot o’ that?
K’n I elp me feelin’s? Underneath that ’at,
’Ere this blessed minit, squoze up in khaki,
There’s a man worth fishin’ for!
Wot a catch ’e’d be !
Lots ! It makes me shiver, breaks me ’eart,
Juster think about 'im goin’ wi’ some tart,’
Treatin’ me just off-’and, as I s'pose ’e will,
But—Good Lor’!—it’s nach-er-el.
Even for our Bill!
Simple and sentimental enough to become
popular, especially in Eaglehawk.
J*
S. PI. Smith, for the N.S.W. Education
Department, publishes Careers for Boys:
A Guide to Barents (Government Printer;
2s.). A clearly written and useful pamph-
let, showing how a boy can enter any of the
trades or professions, the navy, army or
public service. Thus if a youth has a yearn-
ing to become a metal-ceiling fixer—if
nothing his parents can say will turn him
from his ambition to fix metal ceilings for
the rest of his life —then he will find here
exactly how to acquire the necessary techni-
cal training, the wages that he will earn, and
the qualities that will carry him trium-
phantly to success. Thus before he can
become a hairdresser, he must possess the
necessary qualifications : “skill of hand, neat-
ness and cleanliness, with a turn for conver-
sation, not too obtrusive.” One of the quali-
fications, after “presence, ability in reason-
ing and speaking,” for entering the law is
“having a large circle of influential friends
who can put practice in his way”; and having
acquired a practice, “the rest is compara-
tively easy.” A bank-manager engaging a
clerk “will look, firstly, for a youth of good
character, neat ’dress and appearance.” Un-
fortunately this pamphlet does not tell a
youth how to become a journalist, a
“booky,” a pub-keeper, a philanthropist, a
politician, a philosopher or a poet.
J*
A second edition of the Westralia Gift
Book, published in aid of the Returned
Nurses’ Fund, by the writers and artists of
W.A., has been called for (Jones, Perth, 2s.
6d.). The first edition was published in
1916. A characteristic collection of the best
art and literature of the Sunset State.
Wilfrid Oldham, having won the Tinline
scholarship at Adelaide University, had, as a
condition of the award, to compile a thesis
based upon the study of original documents.
The Land Policy of South Australia from
1880 to J8'/2 is that thesis. It is very
thorough and necessarily dull. It is printed
by Hassell for the Board of Governors of the
Adelaide Public Library.


No. 11129. Morocco, lined Silk,
15/6
Similar Shape, lined Leather.. 16/9
No. 11191.—Morocco Hand
Bag, Leather lined, also with Poplin
linings 7/6 to 13/-
No. 11125. —Morocco Hand
Bag, fine grain, pocket under Nickel
frame, Leather lined 17/6
I'ipi
No. 2101 —Dorothy Bags—
Black Silk 3/11, 4/6, 5/-
Leather, various colors .. 2/6, 5/-
Embossed Brocade .. .... 3/6, 4/6
Suede 5/6, 5/9
Silk, hand painted.. 1/-, 1/6, 2/-
>. 11108. —Morocco Hand
3ag, Leather lined, with purse and
lirror, Nickel frame 12/9
BAGS & HANDKERCHIEFS
/
at Anthony Horderns' Famous Low Prices
For Xmas and New Year Gifts
10
010
06
7-'
038
098
V- ■■
014
:V
018
070
•T-w
2£> ..
0500
0400
038
030
4**^
* 6>
05
«fflr
-©-i
054
>¥*?
set.
074
058
:
•*<
No. 0600. —Fine Cotton, Embroidered Corner,
Handkerchiefs. Six assorted patterns in box. . 4/6
No. 010—Pure Irish Linen Handkerchiefs, em-
broidered. Six assorted in box 5/6
No. 0100. —Fine Irish Lawn, Embroidered Cor-
ners, Handkerchiefs, with picot embroidered edge.
Six assorted patterns in box 7/6
No. 028. —Pure Linen Handkerchiefs, choicely
embroidered all round. Six assorted patterns in box, 11/6
No. 038. —Fine Lawn Handkerchiefs, with dainty
guipure lace edge. Six assorted 5/11
No. 098.—Fine Irish Linen Handkerchiefs, em-
broidered all round. Six assorted in box 23/6
No. 014.—A11-Linen Handkerchiefs, effectively em-
broidered corners. Six assorted patterns in box.. 7/6
No. 070.—Fine Lawn Handkerchiefs,
with guipure lace edge. Six assorted in
box 8/6
No. 0300.—Pure Linen Handkerchiefs,
embroidered corners. Six assorted in box
8/11
No. 0400.—Fine Cotton Handkerchiefs,
embroidered all round. Six assorted in box -
5/9
No. 018.—Fine Cotton Handkerchiefs,
embroidered all round. Six assorted in box -
6/11
No. 0500. —Fine Cotton Handkerchiefs,
embroidered all round. Six assorted in box —
4/11
No. 038.—Pure Linen Handkerchiefs,
embroidered all round. Six assorted in box—
-5/11
No. 050.—Fine Lawn Handkerchiefs,
embroidered ail round. Six assorted in box —
6/11
No. 054.—Fine Cotton Handkerchiefs,
embroidered colored corners, 5/3 half dozen.
No. 074. —All-Linen Handkerchiefs,
• embroidered colored corners. Six in box 6/-
No. 058.—Fine Lawn Handkerchiefs,
embroidered colored corners. Six in box 4/3
No. 2089.—Leather Book Cover
and Carrier —
Patent Leather 2/-
Morocco 2/9
Plain Calf-lined Repp 5/3
“Anthony Horderns’
for Everything”is a
good motto for
everyone. Be wise,
pop your orders in
the post and reap
the full benefit of
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW
PRICES.
No. 11117.—Morocco
Bag, Nickel frame, Poplin
47-
Hand
lined —
to 10/6
No. 11115. Morocco, lined Pop-
lin, Nickel frame 187-
Black, Pin Seal, lined Silk.. 42/-
-- *
SS'ffii
I 2 s,s
i
p£rn J>o '
o°-yx
spffi
>olL
Sa
> Ci.
0-0
«- •
a xb
No. 2001.—Mesh Chain, strongly
plaited in great variety of sizes, shapes
and designs 3/- to 45/-
No. 2000.—White Crochet Lace
Bag, Cord Handles . . 3/-
No. 305.—Leather Knitting
Bag, Imitation Crocodile, Kid or
Morocco 4/9
Velvet, with ring handle 8/9
Cretonne —
2/3, 2/6, 3/6, 3/9, 67-
Poplin 6/9
No. 1524.—Morocco Hand Bag,
Leather lined, inner pocket .. 14/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ud.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDEXTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDEXTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC T 'E. TOMPSIT” 1 & CO.. Melbourne.
a
Better them
scouring-soap
Bon Ami looks like a scouring-
soap, but it is not one. It is
made of a softer, crumbly min-
eral and does not scratch. The
soft mineral takes up the grease
and the stains and tarnish, and
leaves a beautiful, smooth polish
on the metal.
You can keep the metal just as
smooth as when it was new if you
use Bon Ami, and the work will be
much easier.
You can also use Bon Ami on the
finest mirrors and windows. It will
not scratch.
If you will look closely
at your kitchenware
you will find it covered
with fine scratches,
made by your scour-
ing-soap. Such
scratches catch the dirt
and spoil the polish.
* For aB the
Finer Kinds of
Polishing&Clean ing
At yonr Groeer’fc
Bengers Food Ltd.,
regret to announce that in consequence of GOVERNMENT
LIMITATIONS placed upon EXPORTS they are unable to
keep their Overseas friends fully supplied at present.
Immediately these restrictions are removed every effort
will be made to send out sufficient stocks to meet all demand.
Any communications on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
mm
Food
is in great demand for Civil, Military, and Red Cross
Hospitals, and in Convalescent and Nursing Institutions.
From a Captain of the Royal Army Medical Corps.
“Your Food was of great assistance to me in my treatment of convalescent dysentery cases.”
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER. England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York iU.S.A.; 90, Beckman St. Depots throughout Canada,
«SA
CARTRIDGES
' DISCRIMINATING users
of skot gun cartridges kave
given tke Remington UMC
brand tke stamp of tkeir approv-
al. Supplied in black and smokeless pow-
der loads. All cases are waterproofed.
Ask your dealer for them or send for
descriptive catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO v
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Cox 686, Melbourne
n
Hupmobile
Brief Hupmobile Specifications.
HCPMOBILE MODELS: 5-seater, 7-seater, 2-seater. Motor:
Four-cylinder, 95 m/m bore, 140 m/m stroke (3iin. x siin.).
Long wheel base (119 in. on 2- and 5-seater, 134 in. on 7-seater).
Tyres 575 x 105 m m or 34in. x 4in. on 2- and 5-seater, 920 x 120
m/m or 35in x 4}in. on 7-seater, non-skid tyres on all rear
wheels. Fully equipped with electric starting and lighting
system, wind screen, hood, side curtains, door-curtain carriers,
speedometer, robe rail, foot rail, carpet in tonneau, fiTe demount-
able rims, tyre-carrier, pump, jack, and full set of tools —Magneto
ignition, wire wheels, special colors, khaki hood and seat covers
at small additional cost over list price of car.
5-Seater—Wheel Base 119 inches.
H
9%*mer* super**
immtmr ffr+wrvfcj
THE Hupmobile is more
than a beautiful car.
It is a four=cy!inder car that
consistently outperforms
multi=cylinder cars, as well
as other fours.
A car whose value is appa-
rent at first glance, even to
one who judges solely by
appearance.
Beauty, performance and
value will be made conclu=
sive by an examination and
a demonstration ride.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DEXXYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelong.
PHCEXIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington. X.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch. X.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Michigan,U.S. A.-Cible Address: "HUPP DETROIT.”


A Great REMEDY tor
BLADDERTROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic which
| These Pills also act on the liver. 4
IL NOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE
I
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks and
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright and clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backache, tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. Dd.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
X)eWITT’s
Kidney&BladderPills
Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
Grease Lubricators.
Specify....
“DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CUPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical,
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only). 'Phone 7680.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
£sn&' ifer-a >teti
Restore t>djUt
WM
vt.
m
:•«>
Lf Dr Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
locally it will be posted direct
n plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K W BRADLEY, Worando BiHWings, Adelaide
t! L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
For our sick and mounded
ROYS —When you have finished with
his paper, 'kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
led Cross Commissioner, o 4 \ ictoria Street,
jondon, E.C.
A Bad Disposition
IF your little boy or girl is unnaturally cross;
if you find yourself unreasonably irritable,
maddened by trifles—
Don’t set it down to a bad disposition and let it
go at that. Excessive irritability is a danger sig-
nal. It means that something is wrong.
That something usually arises from constipation,
easy enough to cure at first, but ravaging the
whole system if let develop. Irritability is a
symptom of self-poisoning. It means a system
poisoned by decayed food, weakened by the. at-
tack of hundreds of germs allowed to multiply
unchecked in the bowels.
Nujol is endorsed by the medical profession
everywhere as a relief and preventive for con-
stipation. It brings relief to the most obstinate
cases of self-poisoning. It rids the system of de-
cayed food, and stops the development of malig-
nant bowel germs. Nujol is not absorbed by the
system but acts as an internal lubricant.
poRCOKsnp
r^Qi
sasa
37-
s*:
fcnrr
ura
»s«r_
Nujol
FOR CONSTIPATION
Ask your chemist for booklet. Sold
only in 16 ounce bottles bearing Nujol
trademark. Never in bulk. Avoid
substitutes.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(N»w JarMy;
U. S. A.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
%
m
Extra Strong for
the Extra Strain
More rubber than in any other motor cycle tyre.
Same quality of materials as in Firestone Automo-
bile Tyres. You will know them by the red side
wall, black tread—a stunning combination.
Motor Cycle Tyres
possess great endurance because of the “extras”
which Firestone specialists “build in” to them. The
favorite tyre with the riders of the world because of
their great wear resisting qualities, built-in extras and hand-
some appearance. They represent the topmost value in tyres,
and meet the most exacting demands of the riders of the world.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
W ales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for Illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Summer.
If I must die, may Summer make my bier
Of poppies full of sleep,
And this green fire that fashions for us here,
A measure low and deep. *
May loose convolvuluses softly blow
Their trumpets over me—
Long, lazy lilies carelessly down-flow
A quiet melody.
The windy symphonies that charge the hills
When Spring rills round her song
May requiem tenderly, but Summer spills
Love’s threnody along.
If I must die —O love! it seems, a thing
Too cold to think to-day,
When our two hearts in diapason sing
A summer rondelay.
N.S.W
ZORA CROSS.
A Common Song.
I’d sing a song of merely common things.
Not mine the meteor path, the mountain
springs,
But just the every-day of life, its fears,
Its joys that mount —despite the broken
wings
Of Hope—and laughter that is hushed in
tears.
I'd sing a song of daily work to do —
Of Dreams, that come uncalled to guide us
through
The debris strewn along life’s broken track,
And light defeated hours with gleamings
true
That call awhile the homelier Eden back.
I’d sing the little joys that daily wait
Upon our steps—the recompense that Fate
Can give when lips curve down ’neath eyes
that smile
On Disappointment at the sunset gate,
And with him bravely walk the last long
mile.
I’d blithely sing of all the common things
We know together. Oh, our thoughts have
wings—•
Sigh-wings that flutter through all bitter-
ness
Up to the splendid sun that ever flings
On wide heart-doors the gold of God’s caress.
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
Speeding Her Lover.
’Tis yourself must he going. The door from
its latch swings free;
Small sense would there be in staying with
the heart of you far grown from me;
My last - kiss on your mouth will be set
' through long years for a memory
Of the grey mists of evening lying soft over
Nocknagree.
There’s a star in the sky of great brightness,
and it all its lone.
Shining above dark places—the bog and the
mountain side.
Sure ’tis the road you’ll be taking where
this long since your heart has flown;
There’s never a thing to hold you—the door
of the cabin swings wide.
Don’t mind me at all. Small time will I
have to be grieving,
With all the fine lads passing by, the lads
of two counties and more;
There’s many an eye clapped on me, your-
self I’ll not be deceiving,
And tbe skin of me like white milk looking
soft from the dark of the door.
And myself ’tis will see you a bit on the road
—the white road from Nocknagree....
Close under the hedge here we’ll rest for
the sip of the winds that b10w....
Och, Dennis, you’ve killed me entirely, so
tight do you hold me !
Hold your whist, will you now, did you
think I’d be letting you go !
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Mist.
Some fingertips there were that, softly
tapping,
Did beat upon my heart awhile, I wist,
And fashioned me of air and amber mist
A fragrance, breathless, past imagining.
The red blood and the pallid yellow haze
Mixed in my heart, and fast imprisoned me
In dream, and I was lost—oh, hopelessly !
And days swept o’er the heads of heedless
days.
Dear open lips so lately deeply kist—
So close against me now; so long ago!
My eyes are blind with unshed tears, I
know—-
The golden, hallowed paths ; the saffron mist!
Dim age-old, new-born, honeyed ways we
trod ;
Long lanes of leafy latticed shade* where
trees
Watched over us; a soothly pilgrim breeze
To lift her hair —surely the breath of God.
As children now who, whispering, lose their
way,
Her ghost and mine grope in His eventide,
Soft-calling name on name. No light for
guide,
For dream-spun, fallen dreams of yesterday.
The muffled memories crowd. The wide white
hosts
Of spears athwart His singing dawn; His
wine
Of youth and faith in dreams —these still
are mine.
But. oh ! my saffron yesterdays, mv s-hosts!
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.


A Necessary Part of Your
is a length of
PERDRIAU
Garden Equipment
HOSE
\
KB
. :
as
i
rr
ST
The Good Red Hose, guaranteed free from
all defeats in manufacture that will cause it
to peel, split, kink or burst —the best of all for
Australian gardens.
A High-grade Black Hose, guaran-
teed to stand high pressure and hard
usage.
Good value, Low-priced Black Hose.
Every Perdriau Garden Hose is
supplied in -Jin. fin. and lin.
Ask your Storekeeper to show you the Regd. brand on the coil.
Obtainable from all Stores or from the Manufacturers.
I
■ V*
a
y
yj* 4
/
»*«
•until
■K
“i-i
#*s«
IW«*'
iioni
wi
li
*•*»
•A*r
«nmtmmr
'•tfJHjU
c;.
•O * &
•u'» --v
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. ah
o\ unr) 4
V.
c
9
MAGIC NOTES
>iui
V
A
Dozen
Popular Selections
That all can enjoy on the
“ CLEAR-AS-A-BELL ”
COLUMBIA RECORDS.
Buy these, or any <3f them for your Xmas
Camp or House Parties.
Ask your nearest Music Dealer to play them
over, or write direct to us.
3/-
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
PRE-WAR PRICES.
Columbia Records are not. and WILL not,
be raised in price.
3|-
DOUBLE-
SIDED.
No. 2530.
“Magpie and Parrot” —Love Epi-
sode in Bird land.
“Broken-hearted Sparrow”— Love
Episode in Birdlaud.
Played by Prince’s Orchestra.
No. 2557.
The Australian Patrol (W. B. Knox)
Commonwealth March (Cyril Ross)
Played by Band of H.M. Scots
Guards.
No. 2561.
Just Before the Battle, Nlother
(G. R. Root)
Comrades (McGlennon)
Played by Century Quartette.
No. 2378.
Somewhere a Voice is Calling:
(Arthur F. Tate)
Till May Bringrs Back the Flowers
(Arthur W. Ketelby)
Duets sung by Gertrude Woodall
and Anderson Xichol.
No. 2946.
The Sunshine of Your Smile
(Leonard Cook & Lilian Ray)
Herbert Seton, tenor, and the
Century Quartette.
When Irish Eyes Are Smiling
(Olcott, Graff & Ball)
Geo. F. Murray, tenor, and the
Century Quartette.
No. 2564.
Sussex by the Sea (W. Ward-Higgs)
Thorpe Bates, baritone.
Till the Boys Come Home
(Ivor Yovello)
Geo. F. Murray & Chorus
Xo. 2731.
The Trail that Leads to Home
Stewart Morton & Chorus.
God Send You Baek to Me
Thorpe Bates, baritone.
Xo. 2726.
Something: Seems Tingle-Ingleing
Chas. Harrison & Quartette
Y'ou’ll Always Be the Same Sweet
Baby (Duet)
Louise McMahon & Henry Burr.
Xo. 2729.
Something Seems Tingle-Ingleing
Stewart Morton & Chorus.
A Nice Little Girl, Stewart Morton
No. 2735.
Love’s Own Kiss
Mabel Lee, soprano.
The Bubble, Mabel Lee & Quartette.
No. 2708.
There’s a Long, Long Trail
The Unity Quartette, with Oreh.
Pack Up Y'our Troubles in Your
Old Kit Bag
The Unity Quartette, with Oreh.
No. 2732.
A Rose, a Kiss, a King
Geo. F. Murray, Quartette and
Orchestra.
The Roses Have Made Xle Remem-
ber
Geo. F. Murray, Quartette and
Orchestra.
AND, FOR BEST RESULTS, USE
Columbia tone “Superk” Needles
They are made of the BEST BRITISH
STEEL, by British Mechanics, in England.
1/3 PER BOX OF 200.
All Columbia Records are British, made by British Workmen.
Complete Catalogues and Information from
GRAFONOLA Ltd.,
Sole Agents for
New South Wales,
Dakingr House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
THE ABBOT
FOUNTAIN OR DRIP
GERM-PROOF
FILTER
1 to 8 Gallons.
Glazed Stone or Majolica.
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES.
CATALOGUE, ILLUSTRATING ALL STYES, MAILED
ON REQUEST.
The Abbot Filter is Manufactured only by
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
10-12 George Street, Camper down, Sydney.
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
A PRODUCT OF MANUFACTURING IDEALISM.
At the present time hundreds of Dodge Brothers Cars are
leaving the shipping platform of the factory each
working day, and every car is a product of manufac-
turing idealism.
It is difficult for anyone who has not visited this
enormous plant to realise the size of it, and the
quantity of material that is consumed
daily.
Concentrating on one car simplifies the problems of
production and leaves the Dodge Brothers free to
devote themselves to a continuous process of
improvement.
DALQETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 38.—N0. 1975.
THURSDAY. DECEMBER 20, 1917.
Price fin.
WAITING.
“Listen! No—still only the sound of the shells.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the. address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no '{will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., jjl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.- — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egyft. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY. DECEMBER 20, 1917.
HEADS UP OR TAILS DOWN?
Australians vote to-day “Yes” or “No.”
The Bulletin hopes that the verdict will
be a reversal of the poll cast in October,
1916. The issue is a simple one: Shall the
Australian army be left to wither away?
The troops can be reinforced to carry on
the fight if the people say “Yes.” Many
thousands of eligible men are on the pre-
mises. The alternatives to applying com-
pulsion are that they will remain here, that
the army will become less effective after
each collision with the enemy and that we
shall depend on the soldiers of other coun-
tries. The plain meaning of any one of these
alternatives is the abandonment of our
liberties to such protection as outsiders feel
inclined to give and the betrayal of the
men who went away with cheers and pro-
mises of unwavering support. It is no good
pretending that the drain upon Australia
has not been terrible. Everyone knows that
it has been. But it is not a bit of use
imagining that the peril to Australia is less
than the country would be confronted with
if the enemy stood on Australian soil. The
war is an inescapable fact. If the Allies
are beaten the Australia of to-day will be
but a memory. All this clattering talk about
defeating Prussianism by resisting the exten-
sion of a system of military service which
the people have for 12 years willingly
accepted as part of their citizenship is
irrelevant twaddle. Prussia can be held in
check by bayonets only. This paper urges
the Australian to put the warring politi-
cians out of his mind; to disregard the riot
in the vicinity of W. M. Hughes ; to ask
himself how the German would wish the
vote to go; to think of his country, of the
future of the Commonwealth, and of his mate
in the trenches.
(To express the opinions of The Billetin, by
S. 11. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
A CHRISTMAS TOAST. LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN: “THE KID,”
Far back in the days of blood and terror,
when empires had more poisonous fangs than
they wear to-day, and every kingdom was
taloned, Isaiah of Jerusalem dreamt a
dream of decency—a dream whose focus was
in the phrase “A little child shall lead them.”
Babylonian winged-bull and Assyrian war-
hog and Egyptian serpent, the menagerie
of slaughter looked dangerous enough;
even Israel herself was like a cat at bay
and snarling in the face of the dogs that
would pull her down. Nobody looked peace-
ful; nobody-seemed even well-intentioned.
In the midst of a hopeless world, whose
highest ambition was the murder of trucu-
lent foes, Isaiah gripped the idea that the
future—some future far or near—-was with
the youngster who smiled amid the scowls of
his elders. Religions far and wide caught the
quiet glow of the old poet’s thougnt and
sought to translate it into terms of mystery
and ritual observance; and ages afterwards,
mixed with a star and a manger and wise
men from the East and harping angels and
a vast hope of human brotherhood, it glit-
tered up through other darknesses and
taught little European children to look for
gifts and kindness at the Christmastide.
And so it seems a decent thing to get a
spotlight on the children as the year closes,
to dream the old dream and strengthen the
old hope with a new purpose. For if a
little child with a dimpled smile could get
busy and lead us, it is among the few
splendid certainties of human life that he
would lead us into better places than
where guns are roaring and the venomous
submarine lurks to murder its prey. The
Hindenburg line will break at last
beyond all patching; the Kaiser will be
hanged either with rope or with the world-
scorn that bites harder than hemp ; and the
tears of mothers will be sufficient to launder
Europe white of heart and soul. But it is
only the child w T ho can redeem us; for this
generation will have done its dash and its
effort will have been an effort of blood and
destruction. Only the little child can build
anew and dream anew and pluck the flowers
of rpal victory that new summers will grow
over our landscapes of despair. It is past
all figure of speech or turn of rhetoric a fact
that we dare not ignore: if a little chi’d
does not lead us we are beyond leadership
and thrown back into anarchy. To-day the
Prussian war-lords, calling up the boyhood
of Germany that it may be thrown into the
shambles of their crumbling ambition, look
with envy to the cradles, only jealous of the
sacrifices to their god of murder that the
years will deny them. But we, with a wider
and nobler thought, must turn to our cradles
and nurseries for happier things. The hand
that must beat the sword into a pen
is there: and the mind that will make the
great music of Man out of the universal dis-
cord is looking thence with the freshest play-
time thoughts on sun and sea. The whole
future is with the nation that, throwing
down its faded thrones of tradition, will make
its kid its king.
But it is not only in the future that the
kid is a potentate to hold our respect and
homage. He is alive now—very much alive.
In getting a little of kid thought and kid
heart into the business of living we shall
do something just as important as looking to
a distant future for the reforms the kid will
work when he is old enough to wear a bell-
topper—and despise it. In fact, we must
get the kid outlook, at least to some degree,
if the kid is ever to grow up to a manhood
different from that of his father. All the
talk of the brotherhood of man and the pos-
sibility of human co-operation on which the
whole socialistic propaganda is based —and
what nation is not socialistic since the
Kaiser lit the fuse?—ends with the bearded
and wise in sidelong looks and critical sus-
picion. But the brotherhood of kids—if
they are kids and not sorrowful ancients
in rompers and pinafores—can be demon-
strated any day and any hour. If the
world were all four years old and strong
enough to carry its burdens, the earth’s pro-
duction of the means of life and comfort
would be increased tenfold, hunger would
be forgotten, and a Referendum would be
the direct and unanswerable voice of the
people. Without forgetting the stupendous
sagacity of people like W. M. Hughes,
Tudor and the man who drives the lift, the
kid has more than anybody else to teach
us,, and his wisdom is not the less because
it is wisdom of the heart rather than wis-
dom of experience. For Experience fools
us as much as she enlightens us; and she
is at best a blasphemous old person making
a mock of all the gods and throwing scorn
at faith, hope and charity. The kid believes
all things, hopes all things, loves all things;
and all things, if they are young enough, are
worthy of belief, sure of hope and utterly
lovable. To make the little child the
centre of the people’s thinking is in very
large measure to catch something of the
child’s outlook. Association with the very
young brings men and women back their
youth. This is a nlain truism accepted of
all who have ever given it even the briefest
trial; and the natural induction is that if
all the world associated itself with the child
it would become a gay, young world intent
on gay. young realities, instead of bowing
its head in grey and aged folly over making
gold and cannon. There is no hope in dod-
der. though dodder has in every age tried
to persuade us that there is; and it is up
to us to give the long thoughts and more
wholesome wisdom of infancy a trial, if
only because its opnosite has proved so bit-
ter a failure and ended in ruin and despair.
Age, in its experience, has a habit of telling
us we cannot do things because they were
not done in the time of Abraham, nor con-
sidered wise when Julius C.esar was a little
boy. But youngest youth has no restrictions to
put on effort. To it all things are possible
and nothing is too difficult to attempt except
remaining still in one place and reading the
account of nothing-done in the daily news-
paper. The world wants to be doing things
—things great and high and gracious—and
it is the child spirit that above all else will
enable it ‘to do them. And so it comes about
that the bitter war that still rages on, fill-
ing the world with graves, may have some
blessings to leave behind it. The children
of all nations w r ill be prized as they have
never been before, because the children of
the last generation were made targets for
old men’s shells and bullets and aged
thought’s hate. If the nations will but look
to their children they must learn of them;
and learning of them the world will be
saved. Isaiah dreamt it; but the old men
would not let his dream come true through
all the ages. Now the war flame has
utterly discredited the old men, and the
hope that a little child shall lead them may
be realised. Civilisation is fighting Prus-
sianism; the exact opposite of Prussianism
is the child-heart.
In Australia the kid probably gets as good
a deal as anyw T here on earth ; but the credit
for this is due not so much to the public
regard for him as to the golden climate in
which he lives and the joy that waves and
sparkles all about him in singing leaves and
laughing waters. As far as the organisation
on his behalf is concerned, things are much
the same as in other countries. He still goes
to gaol in a place described as a school for a
large part of his life; and he still has to
bow, though with a fairly ill grace, to the
alleged wisdom of his time-soddfened elders.
It is true that when very young, if he has
the luck to live in certain favored spots, he
is introduced to knowledge through the
medium of gracious Montessori play; but
once he is old enough to climb a fence or
pluck an orange from the green bough he is
herded with his fellows in the sterner inanity
of the orthodox class-room, where informa-
tion is imparted in much the same old dull
and hateful fashion which, through memory
of his escape from it, has grown dear to his
father. We cannot pride ourselves that the
Australian kid is better thought of than the
kid of other lands; but if we are wi.se we
will turn our attention to him, exalt him,
learn of him, and triumph, through him.
For the kid is the very heart and centre of
any win-the-war policy worthy of the name.
Frankly, and taking all the circumstances
into account, the business of living as organ-
ised communities is hardly worth while if
the world is to be no better than it is to-day.
Morally and economically the armies of
man must break through and not merely
hold on if the game is to be worth the
tremendous effort already expended upon it.
A win-the-war policy, in the fields of ethics,
organisation and thought is essential to our
hope—and hope the world must have as
surely as it must have sun and air. It is to
the kid we must look for this. The old
generals have been fully tried. Each as he
gains his promotion, after long years of look-
ing strenuously wise, steps into the other’s
place and follows the exact strategy of the
years of failure. We want something new
—so new and daring that Dodder will faint
among his revered whiskers at the very
thought of it; and it is to Field-Marshal
Freckles and General Dimples that we
must look for that new thing. Our former
Australian leaders, Primary Industry,
Foreign Trade and the rest, "could inspire
none of the enthusiasm which sweeps nations
on to victory; but once the nation’s little
child is placed in the forefront of all thought
and action we shall go over the top and over
the enemy’s lines to the last pillbox of
defence and come into the green country
beyond. And the beginning of all this must
be the sober placing first on the political
platforms of both States and Commonwealth
of all things affecting the child. Not a rail-
way line should be built, nor a penny of
revenue raised, nor an official appointed, nor
a citizen elected in any public capacity with-
out the fullest consideration being given to
the effect of the thing done upon the little
kid who has to make our future. To tie his
hands, to weight him down with the burdens
of the old, to place obstacles in the way of
his toddling feet—these things are the last
and final words in treason to Australia.
THE WHEAT AND THE MICE AND
THE SHIPS.
It seems like a vision that Eastern Australia
once promised to be a great shipbuilding
country. That was in the days of the
wooden clippers, some of which hustled across
the sea quite as fast as a respectable steel
cargo steamer of to-day. Hobart, strange as
it may appear, once competed with Glasgow
as a shipbuilding centre. New South Wales
used to knock serviceable craft together now
and then at ports which are now as dead as
Julius Caesar’s bones. And Sydney was a
place of promise and of considerable per-
foimance, taking its population into account.
But the iron steamship, and later on its steel
brother, reduced the demand for the wooden
clipper. Other countries adapted themselves
to the new conditions, but Australia didn’t.
In the first place, the apostles of the Foreign
Tiade and Importing curse persuaded most
of the people that they were a feckless and
impossible crowd, quite incapable of the
higher branches of industry. They were even
assured by the preachers of the creed of
incapacity that the manufacture of hats and
boots was beyond them. They took to doing
their sea-business in British and German and
Japanese ships or in Australian-owned
b ™ ght indirec «y out of borrowed
“°? ey \ They were told that the exotic wheat
and potato and the alien sheep and cow were
tl u-i S great natural industries”
Tu- 1 k d . e J el °P men t of the iron deposits
which Providence put into this continent
so ™ etlling resembling a crime. Also ii
was a lunacy and a matter to be scoffed at.
Ihen many of the little ports died an un-
natural death when the railway policy con-
centrated practically all the trade of Eastei n
Australia in Sydney and Melbourne The?
are abandoned to the Sunday fishermanand
the person who boils the billy on holid^s
lf i<: is blessed with intelligence
should be very sorry to-day that it th?ew
overboard an infant industry of promise Ts
Allies are not well supplied with food' La
many million pounds’ worth which it h
bought from Australia (and, incidentals
paid for) is rotting at railway siding
because the seller can’t deliver the goods H
hasn’t the imported ships in sufficient mim
bers, and that ends the matter. Meanwhd
the imported mouse is eating up the wheat
which can’t sail away in the insufficient im
ported ship, and is getting ready to sanrnle
the new crop, just about due; though where
a great deal of that will be stacked the Loen
only knows, seeing that the previous cron is
still, to a great extent, on the road. It will
indeed be a cold day for Australia if the
British Government becomes weary 0 f buv
ing goods which it can’t get delivery of when
they are most wanted, and serves this coun
try with notice that it must get to work as
its own carrier or else business will be off
Such an event is not probable, but it is hard
to prove by Cocker’s arithmetic that it isn’t
possible.
As already mentioned, Australia once
proved that it could build wooden clipper
ships that were quite up to the humble stan-
dards of the day, and if it took its ear and its
intelligence out of the custody of the Foreign-
trade and Foreign Loan gang there is no
reason why it shouldn’t start at once to build
wooden clippers of modern design. They are
quite fitted.to serve as grain-carriers. Thev
are fairly cheap. They can be nailed and
screwed and bolted together at a good pace
even by elderly men, if the work isn’t inter
rupted by too many holidays and too many
strikes. They may be slow and undignified
in the water compared with the best type of
steam grain-carrier when the latter starts;
but when it doesn’t start, which is the
trouble just now, the wooden sailer could
make 10 trips to its one. The sailer could
be built and make its first voyage to England
and get back for a fresh cargo in the time
that it would take Ryan to express his full and
complete opinion of Hughes. All the same,
this marine architectural proposition is not
put forward very seriously, for it is hardly
worth while being serious in a community
which has been taught to regard loans as
the good remedy for everything. This coun-
try has about the best timber on earth for
shipbuilding purposes; it is so good that
some impatient Yankees are clamoring over
the non-delivery of a large quantity of it,
which they apparently know’ how to use if
we don’t. It has beaches to serve as ship-
building yards ; as recently as the late eighties
of last century there was a person in Bal-
main (Sydney) who dealt in wrecks and
ddbris of the sea, and who would quite
casually start to construct on his water
frontage a fair-sized vessel for the island
trade when he and his odd-jobbers or handy
men were not otherwise employed. The Aus-
tralian is always blamed for being casual.
Perhaps there are different kinds of casual-
ness, and some of the early shipbuilders were
the other kind.
“UP THE LINE."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In France they never talk of “going to th
Front.” One goes “up the line.” It is
strangely gradual process, controlled b
R.T.O.’s (Railway Transport Officers) wh
sit in grimy little offices at the railwa
stations and impartially misdirect everybody
When the country begins to look noticeabl
dilapidated; when every other commercia
establishment is an estaminet; when you ge
where all the windows of all the houses hav
been blown in, some remaining so anc
others defying shell concussion and weathe
by means of old boards; when all the grac
and charm of old France have beeu lef
behind, giving place to misery and mud, then
are the R.T.O.’s to be found in really impos
ing numbers.
The first R.T.O. I struck was interview
ing an infuriated Major. The Major, hi
face in the small square hole through whie
every R.T.O. communicates with the work
was saying: “Look here, sir. I’ve had enough
of this. I’m sick of it —damn well sick of it
That’s the only possible word, sick of th
whole cursed show! I’ve wandered hal
over France looking for my unit. Last nigh
I got to Hazebrouck. They sent me to
Berguette. No one knew' about me at Ber
guette. I come here and you tell me to go
back to Hazebrouck. Damme, the thing
amounts to lunacy! That’s what it is—
lunacy!" The R.T.O. wrote impassively on
a piece of dirty paper. He pushed it in the
direction of the enraged face. “You wil
report to the R.T.O. at Hazebrouck to-mor
row morning,” he said blandly. The Major
passed me in a stunned condition, and I took
his place. There is no better way of seeing
Flanders economically than to throw oneself
blindly, unquestioningly upon the R.T.O.
The railway-travelling, such as it is, is free;
the billets and rest-houses are dirt cheap
and fairly comfortable ; the food is plentiful
and well-cooked ; and leisured acquaintances
may be picked up by the score. I know one
youth who took 10 hilarious djwes to get from
the base to his unit.
I reported, in accordance with instructions
from Hazebrouck, to a village near
Poperinghe. A very young captain with a
couple of wound-stripes on his arm and that
harassed expression which men often get
who have absolutely nothing to do, looked
at me disfavorably as I appeared at his
pigeon-hole. When I mentioned my unit Jus
gloom deepened. He seemed to realise that a
big problem confronted him. He became
involved in papers. After a w'hile he raised
his head and asked me to repeat the name
of the unit. I did it, slowly and clearly. He
placed his hand on one of the papers, ‘lour
Brigade.” he said wearily, “is not in 1 ranee,
it is in Egypt.” There w r as nothing to
got by arguing. I had no wish to go l ,
Egypt again. I climbed into a train whicn
happened to be waiting and travelled i
Poperinghe. Poperinghe was being bom
by enemy aircraft, and everyone felt 1
absorbed in the business to be interested
me. I stayed the night in a billet, and
the morning was returned to Hazebro •
At breakfast I conceived a bright idea,
day was fine. I knew the Brigade was som


where in the direction of Ypres. I decided
to walk to it, asking my way as I went.
* * * *
The first illusion which the Expeditionary
gets rid of as he comes to close quarters with
the martyred sections of Europe is that he
is regarded there as a deliverer and a cham-
pion—a sort of combination of St. George
and Jack Johnson. lie finds that no
soldier is a hero in the neighborhood
of his own battlefield. In Liberia
or Kamsehatka I can imagine stray
warriors being given public entertain-
ments and the freedom of the city. In many
parts of England the soldier is still treated
with consideration. In Flanders he is a
person whom nobody loves. The cloth of
the table on which I am writing is a copy of
the London Daily Mail, and opposite me is
this paragraph :
Melbourne. —An imposing demonstration took
place here to-day, when the Sportsmen’s Battalion
marched through the streets of the city. Loud cheers
greeted the soldiers, who presented a magnificent
appearance. — Reuter.
The Irish Guards, the Argyll and Suther-
land Highlanders, and the immortal Aus-
tralian battalions which boast the possession
of Jacka and Murray —that is to say, A 1
samples of the “shock” troops of the British
Empire—might march from Amiens to Nieu-
port and never get a wave of the hand.
Civil toleration represents the warmest sen-
timents of the inhabitants as regards their
saviours; and the saviours feel much the
same about the inhabitants. A glance at
the countryside explains a lot. Imagine that
you are a prosperous farmer or the owner
of an attractive town or suburban house in
the County of Cumberland, near Sydney. The.
country is invaded. Foreign military autho-
rities arrive and attach to your front gate a
board as follows :
O 4, M 75, H SO.
Meaning that you are to put up four
officers at 2d. per day, 75 men at Id., and
90 horses for the rented price of portion of
one of your fields. The map location of
your house is inscribed in large letters on
the wall nearest the road, as thus: B 10
D 00. Also possibly the following: "The
water-supply here has been tested and con-
demned. Troops are not to use it except for
washing purposes.” As the months pass
more and more soldiers pour in from over-
seas. The railways are now only yours on
sufferance. Your roads belong to long lines
of artillery and cavalry horses, to guns and
waggons and lorries. The more tim'd resi-
dents bolt and the value of house-property
slumps to zero. Every shop which does not
specialise in military requisites becomes an
inn. No matter how tactful and well-
behaved your visitors are—and the good
behavior of the British soldiers in Flanders
is something to marvel at- —a dispossessed
sort of feeling is bound to creep over you.
One old gentleman who walked a little dis-
tance with me said, in a matter-of-fact way
that was very pathetic: “This is a nice
country that you have taken.” I said : “But
of course we aren’t going to keep it.” To
which he replied cheerfully : “Oh, of course
that is what is said—but we would rather
you have it than the Boehe.” Not many
French people feel like this, fortunately for
the Cause ; yet on outward appearances they
would be justified if they did. It is a dread-
ful thing to have modern war in your own
territory. The Bodies realised that and
built their plans upon taking it far into the
enemy’s territory at one rush.
Here, as elsewhere, there are folks who
are making a remarkably good thing out of
the war. Beer which in peace time sold
for id. (and at that price returned 120 per
cent, profit) now costs 21d. An Australian
Artillery Brigade wanted the use of a field
for one day for its sports. The lowest figure
quoted was 700 francs (say £25). At differ-
ent times I have seen in the London papers
idyllic pictures of our soldiers playing with
French children. As a matter of fact, most
of the children are too busy to be played
with. If you see a child speaking for any
length of time to a soldier in this strenuous
part of the world, you can safely bet long
odds that it is trying to sell him five sous’
worth of chocolate for 1 franc 50.
The country west of the Belgian border is
already beginning to recuperate. Age-old
farm-houses which have billeted French, Ger-
man, English and Australian troops in turn,
and which have seen unimaginable horrors in
the last three years, are being replaced by
solid brick cottages which, though
unpicturesque, are, anyhow, rainproof. At a
cross-road near Cafestre is a wooden crucifix
with a life-size image of the Saviour nailed
to it. A circle of accurately-planted poplars
surrounds it, and the grass mound on which
it stands and the steps leading up to it are
in good order. But a shell has passed
through the side of the figure, and on the
stone plate near the feet, which enjoins the
passer-by to “Stop and pray to the All-
Highest for a safe journey,” a German has
chipped some unpleasant remarks in Ins
own language. It is the only memento of
warfare for over a mile. At an abandoned
ammunition dump I came upon a small
French boy playing gravely at war by him-
self. He wore a grotesque brown velvet
suit built on Fauntleroy lines, and from
his neck hung a gas respirator. lie was one
of the few children I met who did not want
to sell me anything. # #
Ahead, in a vast semi-circle, like aerial
lifebuoys, hang captive balloons, the first in-
dication of the form taken by the line.. Their
inhabitants have the unpleasant job of
observing for the heavy artillery -un-
pleasant because, themselves defenceless,
they are periodically shot down. The roads
grow busier and busier, and the sky becomes
as congested as the earth. Specks of white
appear against the eA r ening sky, in and out
among the aircraft, expand and vanish, and
appear again. The rumbling of the guns
sounds like a great waterfall which is every
how and again being dammed by some play-
ful giant. Night falls, and as the. sun sinks
the eastern skv fires up in a flood of light.
Every night and all night those restless
flashes leap along the huge battle-line, spell-
ing agony, death and the expenditure of
millions. . .
And now the atmosphere begins to change.
It is no longer fresh and redolent of clean
earth. A faint but dreadful odor of some-
thing else has got into it. The odor ceases
to be elusive. One has arrived.
FRANCK.
10-2-4.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Voluntaryism Keeps Billjim Busy,
Anyhow.
A conspicuous feature of the Referendum
campaign has been the insistence of the
Antis that the advances made in surgery
have given Billjim a chance to get wounded
several times before being killed. The point
this led to was that so long as a voluntary
laborer in the trenches could be patched up
to labor some more, it was absurd to talk
about despatching a healthy individual to
the scene of disorder. It was a weird sort
of argument, and as an encouragement to
recruiting was about as effective as the
promise of a decayed crayfish to every citi-
zen who flocked to the colors. What sort
of a fair chance these bloodless admirers of
a system which depends upon voluntary
effort at one end and rigorous application
of the whip of compulsion at the other were
giving their own doctrine they may explain
later. In the meantime their contribution
to the problem of how to secure reinforce-
ments consisted for a couple of months of
this: First, denial that reinforcements were
needed; second, furious declamation show-
ing that volunteers would provide the re-
inforcements necessary; next, a blank refusal
to explain how, if the volunteers were not
available, the reinforcements which were
not needed but were at the same time neces-
sary were to be got; and, finally, an assurance
that the voluntary system was seen in its most
attractive aspect when volunteers were sent
again and again to the fighting line after
being wounded. The thing The Bulletin
most regrets is that the Censor or someone
basely prevented the publication of a cable
message to the following effect:—
London, Monday.-—During operations in a certain
sector last week, the Australians suffered- 627 casual-
ties. It is known that 27 are dead, but it is not
jet certain how many of the remaining 600 can be
repaired. It is feared, however, that seven of them
may require treatment for two years before being
ready for further service. Of the 593 removed to
hospitals in England, 400 had previously been
wounded three times over, and 190 twice. Three
had not previously been even scrat -hed. Knowledge
that their mates are eagerly awaiting their return
can be depended upon to have a curative effect. I
am assured by the highest authority that the psychic
influence of the imagination on shrapnel and bullet
wounds is very remarkable, and that promise of a
speedy return to the firing-line often induces appa-
rently hopeless cases to leap out of bed and rush
back to the Front. Three days ago I saw a draft of
724 previously wounded men going to relieve the
force in a dangerous salient. They were, naturally,
joyful and cracked jokes about not having been able
to get a rest after limping out of bed. Their friends
in Australia will, of course, appreciate the humor of
these proceedings, which have only been made possi-
ble by so many of them staving at home in order
that headquarters may not be embarrassed by troops
without scars upon them. Recent experiments show
that Australians supplied with the new pneumatic
crutch can leap about the trenches like kangaroos
and severely injure the German morale. Pending
further reports from the hospitals and investigation
of a suggested leg-motor, it is superfluous for Aus-
tralians to consider questions relating to reinforce-
ments.
The suppression of this information at a
moment when the No party was running out
of ammunition seems likely to result in
serious confusion by leading to 20,000
reinforcements volunteering every week lest
the fun should be all over before they get
there.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirbv and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
The Censor and His Futile Toil.
The prosecution and conviction of Henry
Boote, of Sydney Worker, on charges of
having printed articles without previously
submitting them to the Censor, is discredit-
able alike to the Government and to every
one of Hughes’s former colleagues whose
votes were cast for the War Precautions
Act. Either Boote’s articles contained in-
formation that was of military value to the
enemy or they did not. If they did, then the
business of the War Office was to see that
he paid dearly for the offence and did not
get a chance of repeating it. If they did not,
then time and energy were wasted, and a
liberty the Australian people can ill afford
to surrender was tampered with. It _ is
simply monstrous to continue this foolish
svstem of demanding that approval of an
article relating to the war and public policy
shall have the sanction of an official who
may be a dullard or a marionette or an
incurable obscurantist before it is printed.
What was wrong with Boote’s yells, any-
way? If it be objected that he wanted to
say things about war in general and Con-
scription in particular which seemed con-
trary to the stuff the Censor thought the
democracy should be dosed with, it would
follow that the time was ripe for closing
every library and overhauling every book-
shop in the Commonwealth. This fussy
interference with discussion of the war and
things only remotely connected with it has
been throughout a confession of weakness
altogether miserable. But most exasper-
ating of all is the Federal Government’s per-
sistence in asserting that the regulations
under the War Precautions Act are issued
in conformity with those of the British
Government. If this was true it would not
justify their local application, for British
papers are printed almost within sound of
the enemy’s guns and are in Germany within
a few hours of publication. But it is not
true. The British regulations provide that
a paper shall not commit certain offences. If
it fails to obey it gets into serious trouble.
It takes the risk of what it prints, as Tup
Times, for instance, did when it belled the
cat concerning the munitions muddle. But
a prosecution such as that which led to
Boote being heavily fined would in London
be impossible. The Bulletin cannot
bring itself to agree with Boote’s messages
to the proletariat, mainly because of
his persistent refusal to admit that Aus-
tralia is involved in war with the German
instead of in a brawl with a little Welsh-
man. Also when he has piled up his case
against war, which nobody disputes, and
enumerated all the dangers of Conscription,
which everybody else is willing to concede,
the problem of what he proposes to do with
the German remains unanswered. But this
is no reason for interfering with the
Worker or trying to throttle Boote. To do
either is to do the thing most calculated to
prove to thousands of people that Boote
can only be answered by the gag ; and when
that comes to be believed about anyone, the
case for the gagger is made to look as cheap
as stale beer.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
«,
Jerusalem.
From this paper’s senior deacon: —
A strange thrill passed through the world when
the news was flashed that Jerusalem had fallen to
British arms. It was not that the achievement in a
military sense wa3 so tremendous; but one of the
great nerve-centres of human thought had been
touched. The city that is holy alike to Jew,
Christian and Mahonnnedan, that enshrines the oldest
traditions of the Semitic races and struck in the
long ago the keynote of the life and purpose of
modern Europe, appeals to the imagination of three-
feurths of mankind. To possess that by strength and
skill and the working of eternal fate is more than to
have captured Constantinople or Rome itself; for
it marks the fading of even a semblance of the Turk-
ish headship of Islam, arouses a new race-conscious-
ness among the scattered Jewish peoples, and strangely
moves the fancy of ‘a dozen varieties of Christian
church. To countless millions, ignorant of geo-
graphy or history or the strategy of the great war,
its capture is like the storming of the very battle-
ments of Heaven. Germany could not help Turkey
to hold this casket of the crown jewels alike of
broadest religion and most wide-spread superstition.
Therefore, in the eyes of the multitudes to whom
Flanders is less than a grain of sand, of what worth
is the friendship of Germany?
Somewhere in very remote ages the city may have
had a religious significance other than that which
it now possesses. As Salem, the City of Peace, it
left some sort of a tradition from the time when
Egypt was young and Israel unborn ; but it was and
is as the City of the Great King that it strikes the
imagination of the Orient. David found it garri-
soned by the Jebusites. Up the waterspouts in the
steep cliff wall of the place old Joah led the storm-
troops of the new king; and the real history of the
city began with the establishment of David’s
“thrones of judgment” in Zion. Then Solomon got
busy with trade. Gold and silver flowed in from
every country. The ships of Tarshish toiled through
far seas to fill the treasury ; and friendly kings did
not find it beneath their dignity to take building
contracts from the big potentate at Jerusalem. In
the settled peace which had come upon Palestine the
whole limestone area was one terraced garden enor-
mously productive. The King got the credit of it
all anti the remembrance of his glory never died.
Jerusalem grew stagnant in prosperity, faded and
glittered, glittered and faded, but never in all the
years reached to such a zenith of glory. Under
llerod the Great her temple was rebuilt, a temple
fine enough to take in Solomon’s old affair as a
piece of minor furniture; but in that age others
were doing still mightier things, and Jerusalem was
eclipsed by half a dozen rival cities. Meantime, how-
ever, something had developed in the Jewish capital
which represented more than stone or masonry or any
dream of Oriental splendor—it was the idea of God.
Orig'inallv Israel worshipped Yaweh, a primitive
battle deity adopted in the desert; but as the years
went by the notion of. a universal Power above and
beyond man, yet closely interested in him, evolved
and grew to perfection. It was the first really
spiritual conception to strike the human mind ; and
with its enlargement arose a moral view of life and
death such as had been formed by no other people.
This thought was the grand contribution of Jerusalem
•to human progress. Faintly understood, or at times
altogether obscured, it has fought for a hearing
through all the succeeding ages, and is still fighting
for a hearing through the roar of the guns in
Flanders. When it gets its full audience the guns
will be cold forever.
But the capture of Jerusalem has more practical
aspects than any that relate to old religious philo-
sophies or holy deeds or distant glories. Jerusalem
is first and foremost the great home-city of the
scattered Jewish race; and that scattered Jewish race
has an astounding grip on the moneybags of the
world. Towards Zion a huge wave of national feeling
must now turn; and the setting up of a Jewish
republie in Palestine is a tolerable certainty once
the Teuton is broken and the Turk has been asked
to remove himself off the map of the Earth. Pales-
tine is not a very large country, nor are the Jews
numerically a very great people; but if the full
Hebrew weight of influence and wealth should be
concentrated in and about Jerusalem the results would
be very remarkable indeed. The limestone founda-
tion is still there; the climate is unchanged; and
water conservation presents no difficult problems.
The geographical situation of the country could
easily make it the great mart between east and west
that it once was; and Jewish cash and credit could
establish in Zion a world’s bank which would dwarf
into utter insignificance any financial institution ever
known. Jerusalem, the restored metropolis of the
Hebrew Republic, may yet have a new title to fame
as the Capital of the World.
In the changes that must follow the destruction
of Prussian power there will be many strange develop-
ments and many readjustments in the international
political field ; but out of the brooding battle-clouds
grows the great hope of the vaster Commonwealth
of Man —a Commonwealth of many States based on
the brotherhood of mankind. Jerusalem, where to-
day Billjim victorious dreams through his cigarette
smoke of Manly and St. Ivilda, has some claim to
consideration as the place where the first Parliament
of Man should sit. In its old dusty streetsi young,
bright-eyed prophets, now grown very old and grey
in the pages of Holy Writ, first foretold the day of
universal brotherhood and peace. Athens never
thought that, nor Rome, nor London. In Jerusalem
the dream sprang to light; in Jerusalem the vision
may have its holy fulfilment.
Cutthroatoifski.
The exact meaning of the civil war which
has started in Russia is still obscure; but
that it will clear the air goes without say-
ing. Hitherto any person who could work
his jaw effectively has claimed the right to
tell armies what to do, and the armies, as
a rule, have enthusiastically declined to obey.
Now, real forces seem to have gathered
around real men. and somebody is bound
to come on top by sheer weight of wallop.
In the chaotic state of the country almost
anybody really on top is better than general
drift; and as it is likely that the winner in
the contest for temporary kingship will be
a man of military aspirations, the odds are
that there will be a bump or two left for
Germany when the local murder is finished.
The big war has now reached such a point
that Hi n den burg and the Kaiser are almost
certain to risk removing most of their troops
from the East Front in order to pile up
corpses in a furious effort to break through
on the West. This may be somebody’s oppor-
tunity. When the Western line refuses to
bend or break even under the utmost strain
the Teuton can put upon it, the do-or-die
reserves of the central empires may be
thrown into the tumult; and before anything
can be done to patch up things again on
the Russian border, some Smashemoff or
WallopsKl may dash in with half a million
Cossack rough riders and make East Prussia
feel more like Hell than the slopes about
Verdun ever did. Such a development is a bit
more than possible; and the question is
whether a disordered republican Russia keep-
ing up a semblance of being in the war would
not be a poorer thing for the Allies than
a dog-fight in a country frankly and avowedly
out of the war, in which one pack of worriers
was likely to break loose and over-run the
neighboring territory. Ivan is in the main
too profoundly anti-German and too stalwart
a fighter to be counted permanently out
as long as there is anybody left to
lead him. With the ironmongery of war
removed—-and it is the thing that is most
needed on the Western Front and most diffi-
cult to shift back—the Russian may even
yet do unpleasant things to the Teuton. In
any case, as matters now stand, Germany
has very little chance of promptly exploiting
the food and other reserves of Ivan. To do
so in the face of ancient racial hate and
scarcity of man-power would be to weaken
the llindenburg line in the West rather
than to strengthen it. Only armies, and
very big ones at that, could maintain the
rights of treaties made by irresponsible
leaders in a country which didn’t recognise
authority. Poofski, in Petrograd, may
agree to lot Germany have all the wheat she
wants; but Ivan can’t be forced to sell it to
a person he doesn’t like —except by the fear
of sudden death. And Germany without
weakening her punch elsewhere can’t pro-
vide the menace of sudden death.
“Never Again.”
The report that Germany demanded as one
of the terms of peace with Russia the free
entry of German goods into the Russian
market for 15 years is worth taking notice of.
It may be an invention. The probabilities
are that it is not. Russia is one of the great
undeveloped sections of the earth, and offers
illimitable opportunities for trade expansion.
With Russia, Austria, Turkey and the Balkan
States as commercial Allies, the German
power of retaliation against Britain, France
and America if they sought to penalise her
trade would he enormous. But they proba-
bly won’t seek it. in spite of all Australians
have heard about the activity of a little man
in tearing up upas trees. It is certain, at.
any rate, that after the guns stop America
will not listen to a trade war. It is morally
certain that the people of Britain will not.
And it is pretty certain that Germany,
especially if she makes peace with Russia,
would be able to resist discrimination against
her trade if anyone wanted to try the experi-
ment. The point of all this for Australians
is that, so far as its industrial aspect is con-
cerned, the war is practically over. We
shall, it is all but certain, not be permitted
to discriminate against Germany ; if we want
to keep out German goods we shall have to
do it by a tariff designed to keep out other
foreign goods equally. If we let the latter in/
it is just about as certain as anything can
be that we shall have to admit goods from
Hamburg and Frankfort, too. Freetrade or
a low tariff (for practical purposes they mean
the same thing) will thus be Australia’s best
help to Germany to renew her strength to
resume the struggle for world-supremacy.
From Buenos Aires about Argentina’s recent
troubles: —
Though Germany professes the utmost friendship
for the Argentine, being exceedingly anxious to
retain its best base for post-war operations in S.
America, Hunnish influence in , official circles is
powerful. This was shown during a recent railway
strike, when German propagandists were allowed to
openly incite the strikers to violence. The strikers
destroyed about half a million pesos’ worth of rail-
way property, and for five days murder, rape and
arson were committed with little effective interference
by the police or military. At the end of that time the
Government intervened and compelled the railway
cos. to re-establish a full and regular service, thus
forcing them to accede to the strikers’ demands. The
hold-up was largely engineered by German agents in
the hope of causing a general strike and consequent
injury to the British cos., whose railways and other
activities represent a capital here of 235 millions
sterling; but the excesses committed by the strikers
forced the President to act, and he very naturally,
although perhaps not justly, took the line of least
resistance and ] sacrificed the foreign cos. instead of
dragooning his own villainous adherents, and thereby
endangering the return of the Radicates at the next
The Holy City.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, lift up your gates
and shout!
Hosanna in the highest! The Turk is
counted out!
Oppression’s chain is broken- —the filth, the
shame, the sin—
Old Zion’s daughter waves her palm as Bill-
jim enters in.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the olive-trees are
hoar ;
The dust of ages chokes the dreams and gos-
pels that you bore;
But where the Mosque of Omar lifts its blue,
enamelled dome,
Faith grasps the ragged robe of hope and
finds her pilgrim home.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, lift up your gates and
sing,
“Hosanna in the highest” to greet our enter-
ing.
On foot, all reverent, we tread the ancient,
sacred slope
To bring your grimy street and shrine the
gift of holy soap.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.


[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, JoHtf
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Syd*
ney, take the responsibility.]
NS
r Che y^Usfr&flcL
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE
CARTE
ROOMS
Supper.
room« G hail a la
ROOMS or PRIVATE
at Lunrheon, I)in„ er or
latest Music.
a
r m
lb**
%
rss
!
m
PIT"
election. If the employees of the State railways had
acted as those of the private cos. did in this case
they would undoubtedly have been shot down and
their sympathisers treated with little more consider-
ation. However, the screw is being put on the Hun
slowly, but very surely,. and the drastic measures
taken bj the Yankee, British and French banks in
respect to handling business calculated to benefit
Germany, directly or indirectly, is remorselessly
tightening the strangle-hold.
I - 1 oin which it appears, among other things,
that tlie party politician is the same fraud
all the world over.
♦
A Yount* Man in Trouble.
Someone did Premier llolman a bad turn
last week by handing into the headquarters
of “No” a copy of a confidential document
in relation to recruiting submitted bv the
young man to Cabinet. “No” seized the
document with avidity and put up something
like a record in converting it into handbills,
pamphlets and large, flaring advts. about
Hark Forces and Local Kasputins. and so
<m. What good all this did to the cause of
Caving-m is not known to this paper. But it
did Holman no good, either, the document
being an illuminating illustration of his sur-
reptitious habit of mind. The memorandum,
dated 7/2/’l7, set out that, platform ex-
hortation being no longer effective, it had
become necessary to “produce a new atmo-
sphere” and bring “new economic factors”
into operation. Wherefore Holman put it to
his brethren to consider the closing or
restriction of theatres, picture shows,
stadiums and racecourses, and the smother-
ing of reference to “social events, race-meet-
ings, athletic fixtures and theatrical per-
formances” in the newspapers. Also the
papers were to be “compelled to publish
select articles” about the war and to be pre-
vented from using headlines. In addition,
eligible workers in the railway service,
navvies and so on, were to be dismissed as
Joquently as possible, and “public men”
weie to exhort everyone to “a cheerful
acceptance of sacrifice.” From almost any
angle this is looked at it reveals llolman
in a bad light. His clear dutv when he
knew on February 7 that “the time for mere
exhortation was passed” was to tell the
public that the stuff they were reading about
tae war was sheer drivel. And his further
duty was to knock off the blind and wilful
borrowing jag to which he was committed—
to cease impoverishing the country in time of
war by following a policy which even in
time of peace meant eventual damnation.
Instead of being straightforward with the
people., he conceived an elaborate system for
hoeussing them and bamboozling himself and
everybody about him concerning the reality
of things. He actually signed a pledge under-
taking to keep the honest issue of compulsion
Li the background and went on borrowing
wherever he could see a shilling. No patriot
vlio wants to see all the cards put on the
table and the country’s war effort made the
assertion of a fine spirit of citizenship and
devotion to Australia can read this sordid
confession ot a politician groping around
'or stalls and dodges without regret At the
same time, The Bulletin does not appre-
hend that any.citizen will see in the revela-
tion of a politician’s fondness for trickery a
reason for withholding reinforcements from
men who are fighting for us all and a fair
deal.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, bv
S. H. Prior F. J. Kirbv and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
The Scales in the Hand of Fate.
Someone at the other end of the newspaper
cable service had a brain-wave the other day
t u.f gn |P he 'l. ie startling information
that the Lussian news is very confused.”
Apparently a couple of small wars are going
on in the interior, wild schemes of land dis-
tribution are being carried on by private
enterprise, an economic earthquake is send-
ing the price of goods up with a bound and
the value of money down with a bang, the
struggle, for a crust is violent, and the army
has vanished over the horizon. Incidentally
the white, flag still waves in the breeze and
an armistice prevails from the Black Sea to
the Baltic. But wliat matters most to the rest
of Lurope not yet under the German heel is
the release of men and cannon hitherto
pinned down opposite the Bear —a release
which makes it extremely probable that the
.lob of baulking the enemy of additional prey
will be very serious. A hint of wliat can
he expected is given by the happenings before
< ambrai. It may turn out that the amazing
luck of the army which had a stroll through
the Hiniienbukg line was discounted by
generalship something less than poor. It is
certain, anyhow, that the German hit back
with force and skill —that though the assail-
ing troops secured immense preliminary ad-
vantages, the enemy brought them to a halt
without suffering serious damage. There are
further numerous hints that the German
instead of waiting for what the Allies may
have been preparing for him. contemplates
having a try to burst through on his own
account. That he now has the men, what-
ever his position may have been before, is
undoubted. What we have to find out is
whether the Allies have the strength to hold
him oft' pending Uncle Sam’s tardy arrival.
About this there is a horrible uncertainty
Only one point is beyond argument. Unless
Western democracy wins through, it will
begin paying tribute to C.bsar. The time
for hoping to win by making speeches has
gone. The Allies are hard pressed—the
German still confident, resolute and greedy
for plunder. Peace with him is. of course,
possible at any time: but just now it is he
who would arrange the details.
"W.A.D.”: Are “The Lamb’s” facts re
syphilis (B. 6/12/T7) generally accepted
to-day V I doubt it. It is probable that
Miirope suffered from the disease hundreds
of years before the return of the early adven-
turers from America. The scientific staff
°f the Cairo Museum, which occupies itself
examining into the diseases with which
the mummified royalties were afflicted, dis-
covered that Baineses had suffered from
syphilis. IB* must have been a man of
commanding presence, a little inclined to cor-
pulence. with good features, aquiline nose
and well-developed intellectual type of head
which would compare well with the higher
types of to-day. Tf a main of his type and
position suffered from thi - disease it is fair
tc assume that it was fairly prevalent.
Adelaide University revived at its Com-
mem. this year the custom of having an
“oration” by a professor, which fell into
disuse after IB9S owing—as the Chancellor
delicately put it—to “circumstances which
no longer exist.” The circumstances were,
as a matter of fact, the riotous behavior of
the undergrads, of 20 years ago, and the
total inability of the then Chancellor (Chief
Justice Sammy Way) to keep them in order.
So alarm-clocks, concealed in loeJ?bd or
inaccessible cupboards, used to be nicely
tuned to go off during the oration, and the
thing became farcical. Professor Rennie
started the new series with a practical dis-
course on the development of chemistry in
application to war, and “the contempt with
which experimental science had been sys-
tematically treated by the more influential
circles of the British community.” If we
had realised the importance to Germany of
S'mple things like fat and cotton at the
first. Germany might have been verv seriously
hampered, he thinks. But. really, that
wasn’t due to any special disregard of
science. We didn’t think fat and cotton
mattered because, through the operations of
a Censorship for which those responsible
should be degraded, we weren’t allowed to
know that (iwything mattered. The cardinal
mistake we made was in supposing that war
was a soldier’s affair—that the onlv thing
for the “civilian” to do was to stand aside
and let the soldier have his own way, in
legald to the Censorship as in regard to
everything else. The solemn truth is that
a modern war is a huge business affair, and
that the fighting commander is merely one
of the specialists whose services the' boss
has . need of. And in the main his
services have to be taken on appro.
Generally he can give no proof that
he isn t an incompetent. It is blas-
phemy, of course, yet it is nothing but the
simple fact that there are at this moment
thousands of men, lieutenants or even cor-
porals three years ago. who know more about
modern war than Ivitchener did when he
was made Commander-in-Chief.
The Gyppie railways and the men who
iun them will have to be talked to again.
Apparently they haven’t yet realised that
the man in the ranks is no'longer a derelict:
and they will have to be made to. This is
one of numerous complaints of the same
character:—
e had a shocking trip coining down to Port
Said. We left our station at 4.30 p.m.; arrived
kantara on the Canal at 1.30 a.m. ; had breakfast;
left Kantara 10.30; arrived Cairo 12 noon The
heat was awful, and with all our gear up we were
soon wet through. But the worst part is the train
arrangements. We didn’t mind riding all night in
open trucks without seats, for we understand that
there are no passenger carriages on that line; but
it did hurt to see that, though there were no seats
e\en for us, on the same train there were four
sleepers for officers. When we got to the main line
ve did expect to get a carriage, if onlv a third-
class nigger.” But no! We were dumped into
open trucks again, about 35 to the truck. The
trucks were full of old rubbish, straw, coal. etc. Of
course there were carriages for the officers again
Someone wants shaking up over this, for a number
of the chaps who are coming on this leave are in
bad health—some cases should have gone to hos-
pita . and for these fellows to sit in one of these hot
trucks, crowded in, with the sun striking down on
them, is enough to kill them. Our people in Aus-
tralia must be held to blame for not having someone
whose special job it is to look after the soldiers’
interests here.
Sergeant J. C. Kiddle, long posted as
missing, is now reported killed at Bullecourt
last May. lie was an old boy of the King’s
School, Parrailiatta, and was in Dalgety’s
wool business at Sydney when the war-gong
sounded. Enlisting in August, 1914, he was
with the Ist Battalion at the landing, saw
the tragedy through, and then went to
France. Anybody who was at the Landing
and has been in a fighting unit ever since
has had to take a lot more than his fair
number of chances.
IL .T. Cholmeley, lecturer in classics at
the Queensland Uni., who left to remonstrate
with Wilhelm in July, 1915, lias won a Mili-
tary Cross and other war curios. Cholmeley
saw service with a Yeomanry regiment in
S'Afriea, winning a commission in tne field,
and being afterwards transferred to the
Territorials as a captain. lie was twice
wounded in 1910, and last .Tune took part
in the Messines push. The Uni. knew
Cholmeley as a kindly, absent-minded soul
who rode a bicycle and had a habit of
strolling round with one leg of his trousers
tucked into a sock while the other flapped
over his boot.
The late A. M. Simpson, of Adelaide, left
an estate valued for probate at 1200.009.
That is 200,000 encouragements to the young
Australian manufacturer, to go on with.
Simpson’s line was tinware.
Ten years ago three Scott brothers
successively took a first place in Sydney
Grammar’s athletic teams. When the
Kaiser kicked off, all three got measured
for khaki. Jack and Humphrey were in
time for Gallipoli, where each of them scored
a D.S.O. Jack is now major. Humphrey
rose to brigadier-general, and was killed in
Flanders. Word now comes that the young-
est, Lee, who Wears one star, has the M.C.
for gallantry at Polygon Wood. All three
were born at Tumut (N.S.W.), where their
father, D. H. Scott, then watched the over-
drafts for the Commercial Bank. He now
follows the war cables at Wahroonga
(N.S.W.).
News lately came from Vancouver of the
death of Hr. Y\ illiam Kelty, of Sydney; it
occurred while he was returning ‘ to Aus-
tralia from England, where he had been to
offer liis services to the War Department.
His wife was a daughter of Frank Whitney,
of Coombing Park. Carcoar, one of the four
partners in the old coaching firm of Cobb
and Co. The other three were Walter
Bussell Hall, James Rutherford and Bradley.
All four have gone over the range.
Bion : I wish “Geo. Logist,’’ who dis-
covered the German rain-gauge at the Com-
monwealth Government’s newest railway
station (B. 29/11/T7), could look round
Australian military hospitals. In June,
1916, I was present at the unpacking of an
instrument-safe in a military operating-
theatre. The O.C. was drawing attention
to its many advantages, when the orderly,
whose duty it would be to keep it bright and
shiny, foolishly drew the attention" of all
hands to the fact that it was made in Ger-
many. It is time we dropped the foolish-
nef.®. . cutting out German cancers with
politicians’ tongues. There is only one way
to do it —with a high tariff.
Tin; Bulletin forgets how many times
the submarine problem has been “beaten”
or solved.” but First Lord of the Admi-
ralty Geddes seems to have taken no notice.
Last week he was still talking about “the
ever-increasing force of the enemy’s sub-
marines” and announcing: that the‘German
was still building these craft faster than we
are sinking them and sinking our ships
taster than we are replacing them.
The footpaths of North Sydney were
freely spattered with the Anti war-crv :
Vote Ao and keep Australia white!” A
or , I P atn i ?. t . got Busy during the night,
logical dC ing llvered ’ ’ made 5t a lot more
The Law was discovered to be a new sort
Temora fswf' In August ‘ 1916 ’ a
lemora (A.S.V .) woman got a magistrate’s
oidei under the Deserted Wives and Chil-
d^n s A ct of 1901 directing her husband to
«eif ~,wi i° S ' VTj ek for T the support of her-
on tnw/n 0 C n d i^? - ller husband parted
up till February, 1917. Then he applied to
v! e iiu Ca J ''Qbce-court to have the order
v dried by reducing it to one penny. The
application was heard on March 6. when the
wife didnt appear and the magistrate
ordered cessation of payments as from that
date._ Next the wife appealed to the Quarter
behTtW n U V h i e chairman (Judge Bevan)
‘v 6 f had no jurisdiction to hear the
appeal. A ext. on an application by wife to
the Supreme Court for a mandamus direct-
ing Bevan to listen, the question was
whether Section 122 of the Justices Act
of March mV 0 "rfr a^ ainst . the order
Primr T i’ Vn P ellverm g judgment,
i ring j., said that the person entitled to
appeal must be one who <1) has been -niltv
o some offence, act or omisSf and 2
had by the conviction or order of a justice
been adjudged to be imprisoned or otherwise
punished, or to pay a fine or penalty o 7 to
suffer a forfeiture, or to nav an
money. Applicant didn’t tome wm- Utn o(
ot these categories, inasmuch as m any
entailed none of these eon can tle 01 'der
followed that she had no right it
the Quarter Sessions. Street T )ead 1°
and practical, threw in the additi Dl °, dern
mark that “the state of the . t 0 al re-
position involving unfairness and “ to a
equality which the Legislature should?**"'
to remedy. ’ 11C1 see fit
An A.M.C. officer, addr -.sing „ p of
dum meeting, was continually interrmSS?*
an Anti. “Did yous ever do anv fi*m- dby
he yelped at last The Staff S, fi K g . htl ? ?
head. “I didn’t know the little man had ful ’ e ‘
enlisted,” he answered. And d evea
of the meeting a flabbergasted Anti Iff
puzzle out why the crowd laughed. dtC
However much the disclosure of TDim •
confidential memorandum to his CaSff ?
damage Holman, there is no earthlv rL ay
Why it should be allowed to damage S
;™: ““ Billjioi U concern™^;
that Holman was so overwhelmed with a
sense ot the need tor reinforcements that h!
was prepared to go to almost any lengths n
get them for him. If it comes to a ouestif
ot choosing between Holman, who would
even resort to desperate measures to get i
inforcements for Billjim, and the cold and
indifferent codfish who is not prepared m
take any measures at all but is prepared 0
let Billjim go back patched to the trenches
again and again—well, this paper, if it m ,,st
choose between them, would take Holman
every time.
• A German farmer near Rochester fVic I
had a rather delicate wife who worked her-
self to death in a few years. After the
funeral a neighbor was condoling v !i ’-
on his great loss. “Yah.” said August "she
vas a good woman—but a bit too light for
my work.”
“Barnacle’s” tale of a tub:—
The recent death of Capt. H. O. Penner, a well-
known coastal skipper, recalls an incident which
stirred up the port o’ Newcastle. John Brown and
co. in those days towed out the lifeboat when
required in return for an annual subsidy. One east-
erly gale signals of distress were seen off shore, the
lifeboat was manned and the tug stood by. Penner
was in charge of the latter ; but one of the Browns,
owing to the sea that was running, forbade his
departure. The harbor-master was sent for, and he
ordered Penner to go. The owner as resolutely
ordered the skipper ashore, and a fine wordy battle
took place. Brown taunted the harbor-master with
being ready to risk other people’s lives, to which the
h.m. replied with, “Come along, Penner.” and
jumped aboard. Out they went, leaving Brown raging
more than the sea. The tug, by the way, returned
with the distressed mariners. The row took years
and years to fizzle out. Penner is the last of the
trio to go.
The Council of Adelaide University has
decided to carry out the strong reQuest of
its graduates, and wipe off the roll the names
of Penck of Berlin and Von Lusehau the
Austrian, who got honorary degrees at the
Science Congress in 1914. So far as is
known, no other British university has
taken this step, and one or two professors
who opposed it got no answer when they
asked liow it will help to Win the War.
But a large majority felt very strongly about
the matter, and sentiment carried the' day.
There is a push in preparation to
? n ® omet, “ n g practical out of the long-
talked-of Kiewa water-power scheme. The
promoters want to conserve 30.000 acre-feet
away up on the Bogpng high plains, on the
roof of Victoria, over 3000 ft. towards
Heaven. The estimate is that they can get
a head of over 3000 ft., which is well in
the running for the world’s record. Even
the power station would 1 ave an elevation
of 2340 ft., and the water could be used over
again with another head of about 1000 ft.
Carr Boyd—old “Potjostler,” explorer,
prospector and yarn-spinner—is back from
America, where he went to talk business
with I ncle Sam. He is greatly impressed
with Sam s sagacity throughout the war-
even sees profound wisdom in the patience
with which Woodrow Wilson prepared the
ground before he ventured in. seeing that
there are 30 millions or so of his citizens
who would have been quite ready to make
trouble if the Ivaiser hadn’t been given time
to rob them of the last vestige of an excuse
for making a row.
There’s one Billjim who has had experi-
ence of both branches of the service. An
early bird in France, he got 10 days’
Blighty leave and fled up to Scotland.
I here it struck him that the sea wasn’t so
monotonous as the trenches, and two days
before his leave was up he managed by hard
lying to get taken aboard HALS. Erin.
After he had been about IS months with the
navy, somebody found out something, and
Bill was returned to his unit. Next time
ne s on leave it’s a toss-up whether he will
join the Flying Corps or the Cabinet.


Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
rnnrTV T HAITI? Tl Head Office: Corner Pitt
SOlltll LIMIItU. & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS.
N excellent opportunity to join a technical unit,
, a „ riiss for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
Our Instructors have arrang < « instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
The Tuition extends over o t ■ installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane "pull COURSE has been decided on.
A bt-tc . ‘ J HE MARCO NI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. 0, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
All particu.ars on application u .THE UHMW SKRVE THE EMPIRE.
For the Walking Tow
and for all occasions when a comfortable, heavy-
soled boot is required, this boot gives protection and
ease to the feet. The short rounded toe is very
comfortable, and the stout, double-rope-stitched soles
prevent stone-bruises and resist the penetration of
moisture. A lining of soft calf prevents chafing.
Ask for style F 56. Tan Willow Calf or Black Box
Calf 32/6
We pay postage. The New Peapes Catalogue is a
book worth sending for.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
/Wen's Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street,
Sydney.
•• .
pt?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Cheating Cheaters”
Her Majesty’s “The Red Widow”
Palace “New Henrietta”
The Playhouse “The Rajah of Shivapore”
Wirths’ Hippodro.ve .... “Jack and the Beanstalk”
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Tivoli Ada Reeve
Union Theatres '. Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Dick Whittington”
Royal “The Bird of Paradise”
King’s “Aladdin”
Tivoli “Baby Mine”
Mott’s Dr Luxe k Olymima Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
*—
The only thing that D. H. Souter forgot
in writing the libretto of his comic opera,
“The Rajah of Shivapore,” was to make it
comic. So, on its first production at The
Playhouse (Sydney) last Saturday, the
audience was saddest when the performers
were not singing. The dialogue is dull, and
the words of the songs are commonplace;
but Souter has provided a number of pic-
turesque characters and a plot that has
possibilities—somewhat long-delayed—of dra-
matic action. The gorgeous raiment of the
male characters and the amount of ventila-
tion about the legs of half a dozen members
of the chorus help materially to eke out the
jokes and other remarks of the principal
comedians.
* * * »
But what does the libretto matter as long
as it provides the medium for such beautiful
music? Alfred Hill’s gift of melody makes
of this comic opera a delight. There is more
genuine original
melody here than
is- to be found in
three imported
musical plays. The
awf u 1 suspicion
under which Al-
fred Hill labors of
being able to write
only the sort of
stuff that Wagner
and Beethoven
wrote has been a
lifelong handicap
to him. However,
he is living it
down; and “The
Rajah of Shiva-
pore” is convincing
proof that Alfred
Hill can write the
sort of music that
won’t let you go.
There are, it is de-
plorably true, some
concerted numbers
that won 1 d not
have disgraced a
classic; but these
are swamped in
the delightful flow
of that melody
ALFRED HILL,
Composer of “The
Rajah of Shivapore.”
whi c h a comic-
opera audience wants. The orchestration is
full of quaint coloring, and, when it can, it
bubbles into humor.
The plot deals with a temple-keeper, who
has pawned the idol of the temple and is
much worried when the Rajah demands that
it be shown to the people. A necromancer
(Frederick Ward) carries in a pantomime-
elephant, which does everything but sing;
but his plotting does not help the play. The
Rajah, a gorgeous figure dramatically played
by- George Whitehead, wants to make the
temple-keeper’s daughter, Aimee, his wife;
but a pilgrim arrives who awakens her love,
.and she is saved from the Rajah by a dra-
matic event which is not the surprise to the
audience that it is meant to be. This climax
takes place at the end of the first act; the
second is a mere aftermath of the story
except in the last moments, when a series
of tense situations occur.
John Quinlan as the pilgrim and George
Whitehead as the Rajah give sonorous value
to their songs; Alice Bennetto, with a de-
lightfullv pure voice, lacks animation in her
work • Vera Spaull is a vivacious soubrette;
Frederick Ward is desperately grotesque:
Myra Morrison’s dancing is hardly good
enough ; Frank Hawthorne makes what he
can of a thankless comedy part; and Frank
Stuart, as a grim and impressive swords-
man, adds a touch of tragedy to the finale.
The chorus is delightful, and what it has
of costume is artistic. The blushing authors
of the production were “called” on Saturday
night by a crowded and enthusiastic audi-
ence. The music should carry this fine Aus-
tralian production through the holiday
season.
** * *
On Boxing Night Kathlene Macdonell
will appear at Sydney Criterion in Peter
1 an. Meantime burglars and their wives
are advised not to miss “Cheating Cheaters”
at the same theatre.
* * *
“The Red Widow” will endure melodi-
ously at Sydney Majesty’s until Saturday,
December 29, when new crashes of music
will announce that “The Bing Boys Are
Here.”
On Saturday some 140 clever Australian
kiddies will start on a big construction job
at Sydney Royal. They’ve got a contract to
put up a young version of “The House that
Jack Built” for J.C.W., Ltd.
With new Christmas shows leaping up and
blazing all round town, Sydney Tivoli feels
called upon to do something extra vaude-
villainous. So Ada Reeve is going to oblige
for a short season with “Winnie Brooke,
Widow,” a musical playlet by Michael Wat-
son, with which she is alleged to have “taken
London by storm.” (P.S. —She afterwards
generously gave the old town back to the
former owners.) The other headliners in-
clude wizard Nikola, fiddling humorists
Reynolds and White, banjoist Frank Mark-
ley, tenor Rogero and some others.
Bilanderson's panto, “Jack and the Bean-
stalk,” will burst upon Sydney’s vision at
the Hippodrome at a matinee on Boxing
Day. Mabel Morgan is principal boy; Harry
Ferrar, Dame; Ethel Benetto, principal
girl; comedians, Rego and Welch.
Dustin Farnum and Winifred Kingston
play the leading roles in “The Spy,” a
striking picture-play written round the Ger-
man secret s nwice. The film is excellently
produced, and the acting raises this shadow-
play well above the ordinary. At the Em-
press, Majestic and Piccadilly, Valeska
Suratt changes her garments with amazing
rapidity. (Problem: At present rates, w T hat
do you think she raises weekly from the old
clo’ man?) The picturesque Canadian sur-
roundings redeem “Stranded in Arcady,”
the Crystal Palace release. The story is
unconvincing. Pleasant, healthy Viola Dana
is the heroine at Hoyt’s. As little maid-of-
all-work Patsy, she finds “Aladdin’s Other
Lamp” and dreams a wondrous dream, wak-
ing to find (lucky little beggar!) the best
part of it come true. The Haymarket has
an attractive bill, “Still Waters.” featuring
Marguerite Clark, and a dramatisation of
Agnes and Egerton Castle’s charming
“Secret Orchard.” Jack will cut down the
beanstalk on Friday for the last time. On
Saturday J. and N. Tait will reintroduce
their comedy co. in “New Henrietta.”
This week Melbourne has the unprece-
dented spectacle of four dark and shuttered
theatres preparing for a unanimous outbreak
of fresh attractions on Saturday night. At
Her Majesty’s the promised bill is the panto
of “Dick Whittington,” in which beauteous
Vera Pearce will thrice fill the Gaud
Mayoral billet in London. Vera will be
supported by Pauline Bindley, Constance
Cayley, Arthur Stigant, Villiers Arnold and
several old favorites, and a shapely army
will follow her through IT scenes. At the
King’s the combined Tait and Bailey firms
will challenge comparison by staging their
own panto of “Aladdin.” with Winfred La
France as the leading lad, and Barry Lupino,
Bert Bailey and Fayette Perry in other
prominent places. The extravaganza runs
to 15 scenes, and a mob of over 200 will
furnish the assorted human backgrounds. An
“The Rajah of Sliiva-
pore,” at Sydney
Playhouse.
Bunder ( Fredk
Ward).
unwonted mixture
of love, hula-hula
dancing, u k e 1e 1 e
music, and other
strange Hawaiian
customs is the
me n u announced
for the Theatre
Royal. The piece,
entitled “The Bird
of Paradise,” will
reintroduce Muriel
Starr in an
Hawaiian ward-
robe. For the
Fuller supporters
at the Princess’s
there will be a
stupendous echo of
the argument be-
tween Cromwell
and Charles 1..
with Allan Wilkie
as the latter’s
doughtiest follower.
This disturbance
has been christened
“For the King,”
and is a recent clot
from the sanguin-
ary pen of Walter Howard.
❖* * *
The present bill at the Melbourne Tivoli
finishes to-morrow, when various masked
damsels, who have been exhibiting their
contours in a beauty competition, will come
into possession of throe prizes ranging
from five guineas to two. The contest
commenced at the matinee last Saturday,
and if the subsequent heats w r ere anything
like the first one, the public has had plenty
to feast upon. Next Saturday Hugh Mcln-
tosh tries an experiment with a programme
of four vaudeville turns, followed by the farce-
comedy “Baby Mine,” which J.C.W. Ltd.
has lately been doing in Sydney. Bob Greig
and Beatrice Holloway are to be the fore-
most jokes in this burst of hilarity.
Irene Vernon
Castle is still pro-
ducing excitement
in “Patria,” the
fourth instalment
whereof is being
screened at Mel-
bourne Majestic
this week. In addi-
tion to Irene there
is Margery Wilson
in a story of a
Kentucky feud en-
titled “Mountain
Dew.” The film is
notable for its
stoush, which is
conducted with a
homicidal fervor
that brings the
local undertaker
under the war pro-
fits tax. “A Pawn-
broker’s Heart” is
exhibit “A” in the
comedy section. It
is a strange organ,
and beats in a
breast that seems
to have very little
room for it.
“The Rajah of Shiva-
pore,” at Sydney
Playhouse.
The Rajah (Geo.
Whitehead).
The costly Olga Petrova gives her own
sex an unnecessary advertisement in “The
Secret of Eve,” at Hoyt’s Melbourne house
this week. Olga appears as three females,
including a tiger-skinned vision of the
original Eve, and they all specialise in some
inhuman devotion to show Woman’s superior
“THE RED WIDOW.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Florence Young as the gentle anarchist
widow, and Clyde Cook, leader of the
Nihilists who come not from the Nile.
capacity for self-sacrifice. It is a fantastic
and muddled tale, but it will make Hoyt’s
feminine clients feel very well satisfied. In
Hoyt’s second dose, “The Mystic Hour,”
Woman loses some of her holy aspects and
becomes a confused mixture of angel and
devil closely approximating to the Average
Tart. The best of the batch in the picture
is an outwardly-respectable married lady
with a theoretical leaning towards
polygamy.
From an Adelaide critic :—■
Miss Farnie Thomas is an item in the artistic
strength of S. Aus. whom only a few knew the full
value of till her present one-woman show at the
Society of Arts. Apparently she has not needed to
sell, or cared much to exhibit, and has accumulated
hundreds of small paintings, which are now shown
unframed. They are “bits” of scenery varying from
the Torrens to a Maori village, with lots of Vic. and
N.S.W. subjects. Perhaps trees are Miss Thomas’s
strongest point, but lamplight and shadows are good,
too. All of the work, though never startling, is
worth while; and, being priced with unusual
moderation, it is selling at a great pace for the
benefit of the Red Cross.
For “Poverty Point ” see Page I/O.
“Pte. Enterprise’s” remarks (B. 19/7717)
on the over-running of the Anzac Buffet in
London by Headquarters staff men from
Horseferrv-road stirred up the ants ; and the
last mail'rained letters on the subject. A
sample out of one bundle: —
Where “Pte. Enterprise” got the “oil” that those
employed at Headquarters receive extra duty-pay
4s. and ration money 2s. 10d., “earning altogether at
least 12s. per day (including Sundays) while
attached to Headquarters,” the Lord only knows. Up
till quite recently the Subsistence Allowance was
3s. 6d. per diem for private and 4s. per day for
N.C.O’s, and no other allowance has ever been
paid. The majority of the staff are full privates in
most cases married men. These men are compelled
to allot at least 3s. per diem to their wives and
families, and many are drawing only Is. per day in
addition to the living (?) allowance. None of the
staff are supplied with free meals at the Anzac
Buffet or ever were. They pay for what they get, and
are grateful to have such an institution to repair to.
On account of the high cost of living here, it would
be impossible to exist on the alleged living allow-
ance otherwise. The Buffet’s objects are not confined
to entertaining lonesome (?) Billjims in London, but
for all soldiers, sailors and other war-workers from
Aussie. As to eligibles being on the staff: 70 per
cent, of the men have seen active service, 20 per
cent, are unfit and the other 10 per cent., owing to
having a thorough knowledge of the work required,
are practically indispensable. Most of the staff have
been in the army since the hop-off, and we have more
Dinkuma and Gold Stripes here than any other unit in
the A.I.F. We work approximately 65 to 70 hours
per week, and not under the best of conditions as far
as office accommodation is concerned either.
And a sample out of the other :
On the eve of returning to France for the third
time I should like to say that it rejoiced me to read
the caustic remarks about the Horseferry-road
“soldiers” and the Anzac Buffet. What “Pte. Enter-
prise” wrote is quite true in effect, I can assure
you. When I had furlough, the Buffet was always
crowded with men from Headquarters. It is nearly
time they weeded that refuge_out. I know men there
who have never been in France, let alone in the
line. The Military Police, who form part of the
staff, deserve all that is said about them. They are
an insult to the A.I.F. That they are necessary does
no excuse their rudeness. I can foresee considerable
trouble in store for them when we get into civilian
life again. If ever we do. Many of us, sent back
to the line again and again, know what happens to
the pitcher that goes too often to the well. There
are those who ought to give us a spell. But, though
1 long for Australia, I wouldn’t be one of them for
untold wealth. I would rather be the pitcher that
I am, going cracked again to the well, and feeling
that my luck can’t last many more times.
And finally from the lion. sec. of the Anzac
Club and Buffet: —
When A.I.F. Headquarters was moved from Egypt
to London it was realised by the Buffet committee
that funds would not allow of the entertaining of
staff soldiers free of charge, and with the approval
of the military authorities (who mentioned that these
men received a sustenance ’ allowance) a charge of
sixpence per meal was made. During the 12 months
ending March 31, 1917, the revenue from this source,
£BO9, formed more than one-sixth of our total
revenue for the year. In those days our meals con-
sisted of sandwiches and cakes, w’ith tea or coffee;
but since bread supplies have been restricted, we have
given a midday lunch of cold meat and pickles or
salad, the charge, to staff soldiers being raised to 9d.
Our revenue on this account during the past six
months amounted to £574. It is a gross exaggera-
tion to say that three-fourths of the visitors to the
Buffet are Ilorseferrymen. A record is kept of all
visitors, and this shows that the average
daily attendance of staff boys—who are easily recog-
nised by their distinctive badge—is about 100,
whereas the total daily attendance runs from 800 to
1000.
In Australia, to out disgrace, the best
we can do for severe cases of shell-shock
and nervous breakdown among returned sol-
diers is to send them to asylums for the
insane. They are doing something better
in England. The British Ministry of Pen-
sions has lately recognised psychical treat-
ment and authorised it for trial, and the
British Hospital for Mental Disorders and
Nervous Break-down, established in London
25 years ago as a memorial to Forbes
Winslow, the foremost specialist of the last
generation, is adopting this practice and
giving relief to large numbers of cases —not
only Tommies, but also women and children
suffering from the effects of the air-raids.
Lionel Lindsay has broken new artistic
ground by interpreting a Sid Long painting
in terms of aquatint. He took one of Long’s
characteristic landscapes, and, subordinating
his own technique as much as possible, has
etched a faithful reproduction of fche origi-
nal. Frank Short, in England, and Bracque-
mond, in France, have made etchings of other
men’s compositions; but no Australian artist
has attempted this interesting work before
Lindsay’s charmingly sympathetic treatment
of Long’s water-color.
The thirteenth issue of Australia To-day, the
Commercial Travellers’ annual, is as good as the best
of its forerunners. The original of the colored sup-
plement, “Tiie Silent Gums,” came from the brush
of the late Walter Withers. The cover is a charac-
teristic design by Norman Lindsay, who also supplies
the decoration for the opening poem hv Leon
Gellert. The letterpress is supplied by well-known
Australian writers.


-sr
m
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years
Vou have never used or heard of anything like it Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel’
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus •
nothing to swallow. It doesn't matter whether or not your
complexion is a fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blaokheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and ‘‘porey ” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous wav
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessarv.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give vou full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Strest, SYDNEY
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Hath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
They are everywhere. There is one at the
French School of Military Aviation at
Chartres. His name is Leigh Elsum, and
before the war he w-as in the Malay States.
“When 1 got to Paris on 24 hours’ leave,”
lie says, “and found three Australians, I felt
like pushing all the taxis in the city over.
And then, w-hen w-e began telling one
another w-ho we w-ere, bli’me if one of them
wasn’t Norman Lindsay’s brother! There
are about 300 pupils in this school, and we
are a mixed mob —Portuguese, Roumanians,
Russians, Serbs, Belgians and Arabs, as w-ell
as French ; and lam the only Britisher. No
Yanks; but they are getting fairly busy
around here. I meet a lot of them passing
through. Last night I was shuffling up the
street, w-hen two Sammies in a U.S.A. ambu-
lance car hailed me. ‘Say, friend, can you
speak English?’ I replied that I could talk
DEAR FRIENDS.
“The man I marry must not he hard to please .”
“That’s the hind you’re likely to get, dear.”
Australian. ‘Well, talk slow, son, and we
might be able to get you. Now, where’ —
and the usual inquiry about some place or
other. Still w-e are far enough aw-ay
from foreign influence to see right into the
French heart. And what a chivalrous heart
it is! A Boche prisoner working on a farm
here died yesterday, and w-as buried to-day.
Do you know these French supplied a hearse,
gave the other German prisoners time off to
w-alk behind it, and even had a firing-party
at the grave! I suppose I raised my eye-
brows. ‘M’sieu’,’ said the old lady who
mothers us all, ‘M’sieu’, is it not right?
Are w-e not fighting them?’”
* # * *
“Bombardier”: This war consists of one
thing after another. In the early days,
when Fritz started to use gas, our side w-as
soon able to protect itself with masks
which passed through various stages of
development until w-e had a handy little
respirator behind w-hich we could poke
borak at Fritz’s worst. At that time, when
the gas came over in clouds, we usually
got plenty of warning that the stink was on
the road, and it w-as mostly a man’s own
fault if he was caught. Now, however,
Fritz has produced a silent gas shell, and
before you know anything about it, for it
has no smell to' speak of, the hellish thing
has done its work and you are either due
for six months’ hospital or dead. In my
own case I felt nothing to speak of for
a couple of days. With half a dozen others,
there being no medical outfit in our advanced
possy, I went along to a Tommy dressing-
station ; we believed that it had only got to
our eyes. The dressing-station knew- more
about it than w-e did and w-< uldn’t take us
on. It sent us back to a clearing-station,
and there we thought they w-ere leg-pulling
when they rushed us into a car and shifted
us back to hospital. The trouble soon
started, and to-day, three months after the
w-hiff, I’m w-aiting to be sent back to Aus-
tralia w-ith a heart that refuses to do its
job and one lung and a bit. So far w-e
haven’t apparently discovered the check to
this move of Fritz’s; but prisoners w T hom w-e
have laid out say that what w-e are giving
them is worse. It’s a queer business, this
war; and the tw-entieth is going to be an
unhealthy century for kaisers, who make it
possible.
# * • «
“Chevron”: Billjim as an optimist. On
the Somme there w-as a point, Suicide Corner,
so called because it was death to linger there.
One day a Tommy sergeant w-as horrified to
find six Australians of the Blankieth Bat-
talion sitting on the spot yarning, and he
suggested a move. But the boys of the
Blankieth, who would back their opinions
against those of even their ow-n non-coms.,
w-ere not going to defer to a British “sar’nt.”
Three-stripes stepped back discomfited, and
at six paces a h.e. shell annihilated him.
“Serve the blanker right for bein’ a blanky
pessermist!” w-as the Blankieth’s only com-
ment.
“C.P.”: On the Ybarra Bank last Sunday
a doctor w-as lecturing on and showing pic-
tures of the ravages of venereal diseases.
There were never more than 30 people
around him, while over the way a mounte-
bank w-hose principal occupation w-as cursing
the police was festooned by about 2000.
While listening to the doctor I had a brain-
w-ave. People have a habit of going to the
Yarra Bank and the Domain of
a Sunday afternoon. Then
why not, if only for one Sunday
afternoon, shut up the cranks,
and ask leading doctors to take
their places and lecture on
venereal diseases? If the doc-
tors as a body determined to
stamp this horror out there
would soon be a mighty differ-
ence.
“Quarter” (from Palestine, 26/9/’l7) :
Does our shirking brother at home realise
to what depths we have fallen through his
criminal folly in turning down Conscription?
Owing to lack of reinforcements it has now-
become necessary to use Egyptian natives as
drivers on Australian transport w-aggons—
one white man and one Gyupo per waggon.
The natives are untrained, without any know--
ledge of horses, slow- at picking up the work
HER DOUGHTY CHAMPION.
MRS. MEEK ( savagely ): “And what did you do when that thief of a buteher wanted to
charge that price?”
MR. MEEK: “I knocked him down.”
MRS. M. : “Ah, that’s my hold Percival!”
MR. M.: “Yes, my dear. A ha’penny a pound.”
and generally stupid, with a strong tendency
to familiarity. There are no interpreters,
and our Arabic is chiefly of the lurid variety.
You can imagine the result. Naturally Bill
hit out at first; but now —
No punishment of any description is to be inflicted
on these natives except by order of a British or
colonial officer, and the punishments so inflicted will
be the same as those authorised for British and
colonial troops. Cases of promiscuous flogging of
native drivers, by white personnel, have occurred,
and it has been found to have a detrimental effect
on recruiting. The importance of this must be fully
realised. Shortage of native drivers may affect the
mobility of the whole force.
Is not this a shocking state of affairs? And
yet. our men at home have the remedy in
their own hands.
* * * *
“Captain”: The sergeant had been re-
peatedly interrupted by a loud-voiced Anti,
and at last said: “If that partv can shut
his mouth —all of it if possible—for a
moment, I’ll tell him a story. When I was a
lad I was the proud owner of a donkey. One
day I was expressing my intense admiration
for him with a paling when a parson who
happened to be passing said warningly: ‘My
boy, if you don’t cease j’ou’ll be haunted by
an ass all the rest of your life.’ And”—the
sergeant paused a second —“by he was
right.”
“Femina”: Does “Johanna,” who sends
out an S.O.S. call for old linen (B. 6/12/’l7)
know that the basement of Svdney Town
Hall is stacked with rags, for which we
can’t get ship-space? Also, that the Sydney
Old Linen Depot, which was a flourishing
concern a year ago, has now shortened its
working hours to three per day, turned aw T ay
some of its workers, and advertised that
country and town contributors should dis-
continue sending supplies? I ask for infor-
mation’s sake, as, if it be true that the stuff
is really needed at the Front and Melbourne
can get it there, I believe a good many Syd-
nev women would be willing to pack up their
old linen and send it to Victoria, especially
if free rail or steamer carriage could be
granted them. Parcels bearing Red Cross
labels travel free on all N.S.W. railways, but
I do not know if the courtesy extends across
the border.
* * * »
It took Bowser, of Victoria, only five
minutes to do one thing that Peacock' spent
years merely thinking over. He gave con-
stables a continuous working shift of eight
hours in place of the old broken time. John
will therefore now take his rest in a con-
tinuous and seemly manner.
“Maalesh”: Abdul has some clever field
tricks. I was observing for a sniper one
day. Ilis first shot appeared to strike very
close to the Turk we were after. Then my
mate saw’ another target a couple of hundred
yards to the right and had a shot at it.
W hen the usual puff of dust went up near
the first target we dropped to the dodge.
Every time Abdul saw the rifle-flash he threw
up a handful of Palestine to make us believe
we were right on to the mark. But his dust
doesn’t get in our eyes any more. As for
himself he’s the best and the worst rifle-
shot I’ve met. You can ride to within 300
yards of his trenches, and when you gallop
for home he’ll waste a ton of lead and not
score a hit. Then he’ll do a bit of quiet
sniping at 1200yds. that will make you sit
up and stare. One had three long shots at
me the other day. I had my billy on for
lunch and didn’t want to shift, for wood is
hard to get. First shot, 3ft. on my left;
second shot, 2ft. on my right; third shot,
just right—range 1400yds. I’m now having
a spell in hospital.
AU REVOIR.
SHE: “Staying here long?”
HE: “As long as I please you!”
SHE: “What a pity you have to go so soon.”
STAR OF GALLIPOLI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlie Gallipoli Star and Riband are to be given
only to men who sailed from Australia and Maori-
land in 1914.”
You have fashioned a star for the brave,
To be worn on their breasts,
Who fought and came back from the grave,
Where the thorns of Gallipoli wave
At the sea-winds’ behest.
But the star and the riband to bear it
Are with bitterness drest
If all may not wear it.
Since they fought on Gallipoli’s sands
And her gullies and heights,
With hot hearts and strong, passionate hands,
For the love of these sea-girdled lands,
And these days and these nights,
Shall they not, when the glory comes, share it
As they shared those grim fights,
And every man wear it ?
God has fashioned white stars for the brave,
To be worn on the breast,
Who fought and went down to the grave,
Where Gallipoli’s poppy-fields wave,
By the breezes caressed ;
And the stars have, as ribands to bear them,
Red lights from the West,
And all the dead wear them.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


PIKE BROTHERS CATALOGUE
POST FREE TO YOU.
Fill in this form, cut out, enclose in an envelope, and post direct, Now !
Messrs. PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
BRISBANE. mi 7.
I would be pleased to have a copy of your COM-
MONWEALTH CATALOGUE, SERIES SIX. ~
Also please send me patterns of
material!
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Toowoomba BRISBANE Townsville
NERVES
are responsible for Headaches, Backache, Insomnia, Anaemia, Neuralgia,
Brainfag, Breakdown, Lassitude, Dizziness, Palpitation, and such like ailments.
When you suffer from any of these neurasthenic conditions do not make the mistake
of taking drugs or stimulants. What you need is something to purify and enrich the
blood and nourish the nerves. For this purpose you cannot get anything better than
HEAN S TONIC NERVE NUTS
Obtainable from reliable Chemists and Stores. Trice: 3/- per box; or six boxes for
17/3. If not stocked in your locality send direct to G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“Billzac’s” shameless story from the Holy
I.and :
The other day we moved back from the front line
into reserve on the beach. We had been without a
mess of any kind for many months, and I reckoned
the chance of climbing outside a few pints of beer
was too good to be missed. Accordingly I bailed
the “old man” up and the required permission was
extracted. An urgent messenger was put on the
track for Port Said armed with an order and certain
piastres and instructed to “please expedite.” The
next thing to do was to provide material for build-
ing the “pub.” 1 obtained an order from the C. 0.,
and took it to Brigade H.Q. ; they approved, and
away I went to Divisional H.Q. They approved ; also
the C.R.E. gave his blessing*. Thus armed I wended
my way to the R. E. Dump in the village of
and presented the much-minuted sheet. The old bird
who beamed benevolently at me over the top of his
glasses scrutinised the document, sighed and handed
it back. “Can’t be done, Sergeant. You don’t
belong to my area.” “Sorry,” I said. “Could you
give me an idea what to do?” “Well, Sergeant—ah,
well, I was commanding in France and the boys
were in the open—nothing to cover them and mud
a foot deep. I went to my C.O. and said: ‘Sir, my
men are out in the open. Can material be obtained
to house them?’ My C.O. said: ‘No.’ I then in-
quired : ‘Have I your permission to do my best,
sir?’ ‘Sir,’ said my C. 0., ‘I trust my officers will
PUTTING OFF THE EVIL DAY.
H IM: “You know we won’t he able to run
to too much of this sort of thing after
we're married.”
HER: “Oh, well then, darling, don’t let us
get married yet awhile.”
always do their best.’ The old bird rose, and as he
walked away his left eyelid dropped and he
remarked: ‘I housed my men, Sergeant; I housed
’em. Good-evening, Sergeant.’ ” Fifty piastres and
a limber-waggon after dark that evening did the
trick! The edifice still stands, and the only thing*
to mar the taste of the beer is the price—it’s 10
piastres a bottle = 2s. 3d.
Jhere is an agitation in Adelaide to
remove the Consumptive Home, which
has lately occupied the old Lunatic
Asylum grounds, in a gloomy pinewood
alongside the Botanic Gardens. As the
i ramway headquarters are now close
A POINT OF ETIQUETTE.
HIS GAITERS: “How old are you, little girl?”
CHILD OF THE PEROD: “Isn't it very rude to ask a lady her age?”
by, it is suggested that tuberculous
patients ought to be elsewhere. The
Government has lateTy established an ideal
home for lung cases among soldiers on a
breezy hillside a few miles out of the city,
and it talks of making this the place for all
lung cases in time to come, when the military
claims are less pressing. Meanwhile it has
made a small but obvious reform by taking
away the bars which used to block the win-
dows of the old asylum.
* * * *
“S.S.S.” “Margaret,” I said to my
owner, “you must take me to Westminster
Abbey.” “Choccy?” she said. “Choccy
when we come home.” I
was very firm. “Takki,”
she demanded. Taxi it
was, though I couldn’t
n ;arly afford it. As we
entered the sacred pre-
cincts an organ pealed
out magnificently the
National Anthem. All
the good Australians and
Canadians rose (nearly
all on crutches) and stood
to attention. My Mar-
garet, the young side of
two, picked up her micro-
scopic skirts and pirou-
etted up the aisle. She
thought that was what
the music was for.
Everyone was so shocked.
Later, as the verger
brayed us into the Gar-
ter-Knights’ Chapel and
told us “Hin that corner
is the Duke of Con-
naught’s stall —hopposit
is the King’s,” Margaret
climbed slowly up the
sacred steps and sate
gravely in the seat of
kings. The verger
stopped with a click, his
mouth wide open. We
others looked as though
the skies might crumple.
“My little girl,” I ven-
tured at length, not
knowing what else to say, “is an Australian.”
A smile like sunshine gleamed over the sick
and sore. But the verger took it differently.
“Which explains heverything,” he gruntled.
Hughes’s publicity agent chose Monday
morning’s papers wherein to unloose a stir-
ring appeal to the Women of Australia. It
was a beautiful oration, informing Woman:
You may palter with your conscience, you may
listen, as did your first mother, to the voice of the
serpent in Eden; but you cannot still the voice of
your own conscience.
Palter with her conscience—on Monday
morning! Listen to the serpent —on Monday
morning! She’s too busy doing the washing,
or seeing about the washing, and shoving
her husband out of the house.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos The Bulletin’s
recent kick at the new idea that any lawyer
of eminence, good enough to be a judge, is
a proper man to preside over an Arbitration
tribunal. One of the counts in the indict-
ment against Daniel O’Connell, Charles
Gavan Duffy and others in the prosecutions
in Dublin in 1844 was that the villains
proposed to establish Arbitration Courts.
For the defence evidence was given that
arbitration was at the time availed of in
the most respectable commercial circles. It
came about this way : In the year 1700 the
case of the Ouzel Galley, a ship in the port
of Dublin, caused great legal perplexity and
was referred to an arbitration of merchants,
whose prompt decision was highly approved.
This led to the formation of the Ouzel
Galley Society in 1705. The arbitrators
charged no fees, but all expenses incurred
were appropriated to the benefit of decayed
merchants. A list of members of the society
before this writer contains 40 names of
merchants, bankers, etc., with only one
lawyer, and he an official. The arbitrators
were chosen from the membership.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: In 1827 there
came to N. S. Wales one William Romaine
Govett, a surveyor who worked
on the Blue Mountains under
the direction of Thomas Living-
tone Mitchell, Surveyor-General.
Four years later he surveyed
the waterfall to which is given
the name of Govett’s Leap.
Govett came from Devonshire,
and, returning to England, sup-
plied a series of 20 articles,
entitled “Sketches of New South
Wales,” to the Saturday
Magazine. Some of these are
illustrated ; one in particular of
September, 1837, shows a fine
engraving of Cutler’s Inn, at the
“Mittagong Flats.” The inn,
named The Kangaroo, and a
farm attached, were subse-
quently purchased by Captain
Sturt, the explorer, who resided
in it. Just before the war
Archdeacon Boyce, who comes
from Devonshire, visited the
little churchyard at Tiverton,
where his grandfather and other
relatives are buried, and there
he found the name William
Romaine Govett upon a head-
stone. Death occurred in 1848.
An old Australian legend is that
Govett was a bushranger, who
took a flying leap when pur-
sued. It is picturesque, but that is its only
virtue.
- * * * *
“Haka” : It is stated (B. 15/11/’l7) that
Billjim hasn’t managed to get “wowser”
naturalised in England yet. My own idea
is that our word is the same as vowzher,
and the vowzhers lived in Cromwell’s Eng-
land. They were of Puritan stock, and so-
called themselves because their founder was
one Adolph Vowzher. Their keyhole tactics
eventually landed some modern members of
the old sect in a Sydney court. On the
defendants appearing, the beak asked, “Are
not these people of some religious order?”
and in the published statement the sergeant
replied, “Yes, they are wowsers, your Wor-
ship.” And so the name passed back into
currency.
An odd relic of Adelaide’s very earliest
days has been discovered —a little wooden
hut claimed to have been used by Light as
an office when he was fixing the site and
laying out the streets of the city. It can be
had for a trifle, being no longer habitable ;
so it may be moved to the Botanic Park and
used as a museum for pioneer relics —which
are numerous.
* * * *
This explains it all: —
“Duglio,” who wrote (B. 28/6/’l7) of Australians
in England having been invited to Wilton House, and
having tramped five miles to be shown the outside of
the premises, evidently misinterpreted his invitation.
Knowing that large numbers of Australian and Eng-
lish soldiers visited the town of Wilton every week-
end, Lady Pembroke thought they might like to see
the grounds of Wilton House. She therefore wrote
the C.O’s of Australian troops, Hurdcott, stating that
she would be pleased to allow 400 soldiers each week
to spend three hours in the delightful parks of the
Wilton estate. No mention was made of tea or beer
being provided, and surely, remembering the large
number of troops concerned, and the food and servant
problem, no such entertainment could be expected.
As regards the 2s. expended for tea at Wilton, there
is quite a good canteen instituted by a committee, of
which her Ladyship is chairman, solely for the benefit
of the local troops, where a good tea can be obtained
for 3d. If “Duglio" expected the Karl to meet him
on the doormat with a bottle of “the best,’’ and her
Ladyship to beam smiles of pleasure, of course he
was disappointed; but nevertheless many Australian
boys have visited with great pleasure the grounds and
picture-galleries of Wilton House, and have fully
appreciated the privilege. It is also a fact that any
day in the week, on asking permission, they' may not
only peep through the library windows, but may
wander through the state-rooms of the ancestral man-
sion, the only limitation being that they are not
expected to carve their names on the mahogany
mantelpiece.
“A.G.”: I know what it feels like to be
an English pauper. A Red Cross ambu-
lance lately dumped six of us, more or less
convalescent, in a Surrey workhouse, which
was masquerading as a military hospital. A
high brick wall, topped with broken glass,
which had penned generations of paupers,
kept us out of the world. The dormitory
was mostly bed, painted brick and rafter,
and my mate and I shared a miscellaneous
collection of bedclothes stamped “Married
Couple” affd “Female.” An R.A.M.C. cor-
poral. who must have been a relation of
Bumble, dropped in and took an inventory
of our names, unit and religion, being
particularly keen on the religion. I
investigated the kitchen in hopes of find-
ing Oliver Twist, and was gravely handed a
plate and basin. The inevitable suit of blues
came along, wrapped in what I took to be a
revolutionary flag, but which turned out to
be my handkerchief. I had no pocket large
enough to take it, so Jock used it in lieu of
braces, and when he had twisted a brilliant
MISUNDERSTOOD.
H E: “Is Bertie engaged?”
SHE: “Well, he doesn't know. He asked
the girl whether she was saying Yes or
No, and she threw her arms round his
neck and said she was so happy.”
left-over piece of it into a necktie he looked
a cross between a brigand and a cinema com-
missionaire. An elderly identity, who had
been Wellington’s offsider at Waterloo,
rounded us up to see that we didn’t dodge
our first meal, and we were informed that
two hours of freedom were allowed every
second day beyond the brick-and-glass ram-
parts. As soon as possible I escaped tq
Harefield, but I wouldn’t have missed it even
if I’d had to end the war to do it.
THE CLIPPED SKIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first I knew my Emmaline
Her long skirt well became her station,
And were a glimpse of ankle seen
It had to all of us, I ween,
The nature of a revelation.
But soon a change of fashion checked
This shyness, and a hurt would rankle
Should you by any chance neglect
To quite respectfully inspect
The neatness of my darling’s ankle.
They cut still more away. You saw
A little curve of leg. Good gracious!
Would Em obey the fashion’s law?
She didn’t seem to give a straw—
Her style was saucy and vivacious.
The skirt is cut much shorter since,
And Em’s appearance quite unmans a
Poor lad who loves. I daily wince
To see her looking like the Prince
Bioke from a Yank extravaganza.
I dread that skirts may higher go,
And with them an increase of freedom.
Yet Emmaline I’ll marry, though
She’ll wear the breeches, well I know.
But what of that? It seems she’ll need ’em i
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


DRUNKS
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
At times the world goes on the jag
And Bacchus reigns supreme,
While through the city’s carnival
There pass, in giddy stream,
The talking drunk, the laughing drunk,
The drunk who plans out wars,
The splendid drunk—the man of wealth
Who orders motor-cars.
I meet them all, and grip their hands;
We have a drink or so;
But, suddenly, I find myself
With others that I know—
The sporting drunk, the old-pal drunk
T have not met for years,
The joking drunk, the sleeping drunk,
The drunk who gives loud cheers.
The masque is brisk; the sober drunk
Who knows when he should cease
Quick-changes to the fighting drunk,
Whose argument is peace;
Or, else, becomes the bitter drunk
Who leads an awful life,
And talks of suicide and prawns,
Late tram-rides and his wife.
The whole wide, sober-
minded world
Seems out upon the spree;
And every drunk in all the
crowd
Insists on drinks with me:
The crayfish drunk, the
smart-man drunk
Who tales of swindle
springs,
The drunk whose father was
a lord,
The drunk who gaily sings.
The drunk who loved a
thousand girls,
The drunk who would be
fed;
The laughing drunk; the
mournful drunk
Who glories in the dead;
The drunk who skips; the
drunk who shouts
For strange and awful
food;
The boxing drunk; the peni-
tent
Who—once—w as very
good!
It’s ten to one when I awake
Upon some singing shore,
From visions of assorted
drunks
Who talk, laugh, sing and
roar,
A stray drunk waves a bottle
high
And shouts, in cheery
tones,
About the splendid time
we’ve had —
A drunk whose name is
J ones.
C.A.3.
HAMER.


[DAVID LOW, THE BULLETIN Office, Collins-street, Melbourne.]
THIS WAY OR THAT WAY?
"Under the country's laws you can deckle whether yon will have It this way or that way. That Is all you can do If
you proposals down I wash my hands of all responsibility, and you take what comes.”— The Prime Munster.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, Joh> t
Barr and K. O’Fekrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
The medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother—that
hi mgs phjsical confidence, stiength, mental energy and clearness, is Clements Tonic
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution It
strengthens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it, written by those
who can well afford by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few months
offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day and S
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
, which may be seen and verified at the
get well. Do not wait until to-morrow.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELAGMERINO
CIGARETTES
No wonder the Gov.-Gen. is so keen on
forestry if the story about his own experi-
ence is true. When he came into his
estates in Scotland, so the yarn goes, he
planted out with trees 4000 acres of land
which had been used for sheep at a profit
of a few shillings an acre a year. That
was 35 years ago, and the other day the
British Government commandeered all the
timber and gave him a price which returned
£2 per acre per year after paying for the
cost of planting and other expenses.
Coincidence doesn't often deal such a grim
card as fell to Bombardier Hector MeWhae,
youngest son of Works Minister MeWhae,
of the Vic. Cabinet. The eldest son. Lieut.
John IV., who was with the British field
artillery, was killed in June. Hector, who
is a Billjim, was serving his gun one August
dav when a wooden cross, stripped from its
grave by a German shot, was hurled to his
feet. He picked it up and found that it bore
his dead brother’s name.
RODGERS,
M.H.R.
( Wannon,
Vic.).
Another Australian who has risen from
private to lieut.-colonel is H. G. Lovett
Cameron, who got his commission two days
before the Landing. He was then in camp
in Victoria. Soon afterwards he sailed
with reinforcements to help his hard-pushed
pals from Lone Pine to the Evacua-
tion. In France he was recommended for
D.S.O. and M.C.. and was mentioned three
times in despatches. He qualified at Aider-
shot for his lieut.-colonelcy. His dad was
the late Verney Lovett Cameron, a cricket-
ing Melbourne solicitor.
Just dead, A. M. Hertzberg, a leading
figure in Bananaland commercial life for
half a century. Born in Prussia, he arrived
in Queensland 52 years ago, aged 14. He
became interested in local government, and
was only 21 -when he was elected to a seat
on the Roma Municipal Council. With his
brother he founded and built up the well-
known firm of A. M. Hertzberg and Co., the
partnership lasting 41 years. For three
years A. M. Hertzberg was president
of the Chamber of Commerce, for 14 years
he held a seat on the Water and Sewerage
Board, and he has been a member of the
University Senate since it was formed.
Australia’s —perhaps the world's—first
woman returning-officer has just been given
a job by the Commonwealth electoral autho-
rities. She is matron of a hospital in India
where there are a good many Australian
nurses.
Arthur 11. Adams’s yarn :
One morning at breakfast in Peking during the
Boxer Rebellion, Dr. Morrison, with whom I was
staying, pushed aside the stowed pigeons which
formed the bill of fare for every meal, and handed
across a copy of the Times. “What do you think of
that?” he laugh-
ingly asked. It
was the obituary of
Morrison himself
two columns long.
When I had read
it, I said: “Well,
after two columns
in the Times, and
the cheers they
give you, the only
decent thing they
can do is to double
your salary.” I
rather fancy that
he put that point
of vie w to the
paper. It requires
a decent screw to
enable a chap to
live down two
columns of a
London Times
obituary.
LOVEKIN,
DAILY NEWS,
Perth.
“The Pariah” and the President of China :
If the statement of “The Emu” (B. 6/12/T7) that
Sun Yat Sen was born and educated in Hawaii is
correct, then Kent, Thompson, Bland, Morrison and
Donald, all accredited authorities, as well as a h
of press writers on the China coast, have had th° &t
legs pulled. Also, the Chinese members of th
Hongkong Legislature who in 1908 gave me dir
tions and letters of introduction when I went to'°
village in Ivwang Tung province were mistaken •' 4
were the local poohbahs who pointed out Sun’s birth
place for me to photograph. The white man who
knows most about Sun is Dr. Cantlie, formerly head
of the Hongkong School of Medicine. When the
revolution broke out (.1911), Cantlie was besieged by
publishers; and in the foreword to his book he
says: “For 25 years my wife and myself have had the
privilege of a close and intimate acquaintance with
Sun.” On page 36: “Sun Yat Sen was born in 1867
in the province of Kwang Tung, in a remote village
situated between the city of Canton and the Portu-
guese colony of Macao. His father was a convert to
Christianity, and was employed as a missionary
agent by the London Missionary Society. An Eng-
lish lady connected with the Mission interested her-
self in the young lad, and by her help Sun was
well grounded in English. At the age of 18 Sun
became attached to the hospital of the Anglo-Ameri-
can Mission in Canton.... He became deeply inter-
ested in medicine and surgery, and when 20 years
of age he came to Hongkong in the newly-opened
College of Medicine.” Five years later a qualified
Sun began to practise in Macao, and there first
heard of the Young China Party, becoming mixed
up in the abortive attempt to seize Canton in 1891
or thereabouts. With difficulty he escaped to Hong-
kong, where Cantlie passed him on to solicitor
Dennis, of Dennis and Bowley. Dennis arranged for
the escape to Honolulu, where Sun adopted the style
of a modern Japanese.
Killed in action in France, S. E. Goold
Mills, who had climbed up from private to
captain with the A.I.F. in two years, and
won the Military Cross at Pozieres. As a
Light Horseman, he had a hand in the
S’Afriean disturbance 17 years ago. Mills
came from Dundas (N.S.W.). That part
of the country is dotted with the descend-
ants of the storied schoolmaster of historic
Parramatta.
George Foster, who
left Tasmania with the
Light Horse, con-
tracted three stripes
and a strained heart
in Gallipoli. On his
coming to Australia
for repairs, his nurse
turned out to be a
sweetheart whom he
had lost track of a
dozen years previ-
ously. She cured the
strain, but produced
another heart trouble,
so she married him
last June in Banana-
land. A month later
he was elected to the
Tasmanian Assembly,
and has been winning
more converts for
“Yes” than any other
campaigner in Tassy.
Incidentally 7, he is sec-
retary of his little
State’s Returned Sol-
diers’ Assoc.
LIEUT. GEORGE
FOSTER, M.L.A.
E. W. Mattner, a S. Australian of 23,
who enlisted as private in 1015 and has just
got his commission, holds the Military Medal
and Bar, the D.C.M. and the Military Cross
—four decorations gained in six months. He
used to be a school-teacher, and is now in
the Field Artillery. Ilis people live at
Oakbank, and judging by that and the name
he probably wouldn’t be trusted to vote on
Conscription if he were home in Australia.
Home again in Melbourne, Frank Luks. a
Burwood (Sydney) boy. whose mother was
a Scotchwoman and his father a Finn. The
latter used to be skipper of the ship Cali-
fornia. between Australian ports and ’Frisco,
where he was killed in the big 'quake. Frank
tried for the British army early in the big
scrap, was turned down, went to France,
became an aviator mechanic, then on to
Russia, and then back to France, where he
joined the Foreign Legion. After that.
Gallipoli, Verdun, Arras, the Somme, the
Champagne, and such-like fcHes. Later he
transferred to the Flying Service, and fin-
ished that chapter with a bad smash and
his discharge. The next will commence just
as soon as he is well enough to get back to
France.
■Tack Chapman. IS, a Duntroon collegian,
left Sydney two years ago as a subaltern
of the umtieth Battalion, his brother Jim
also carrying stars in the same unit. Now
Jack has acquired a major's crown, a few
weeks before his country will permit him to
vote (present referendum excepted). The
boys are sons of Austin Chapman. M.H.R..
who has a habit of being returned unopposed
for his down-south electorate.
THE GENERALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(With acknowledgments to the articles of war-
correspondent Keith Murdoch, of Melbourne Herald
and Sydney Sun.)
As I stood smokin’ a pipeful out, watchin’ the
sunset glow
Down in the South at Boerfontein, seventeen year
ago,
Dreamin’ of all the' ins an’ outs that worry our
’uman clay,
An’ givin’ a thought to the ’Arbor-side that was ’alf
a world away,
A' English officer passed me by with ’is chin-bone
’igh in the air,
Passed an’ ’alted an’ turned about, chuckin’ the
’aughty stare,
Looked me over from ’ead to boots, an’ “What’s
your name, my man?”
’E says, an’ I says, “Bill! What’s yours?” An’
the bloomin’ show began.
TOMMY RYAN, M.L.A. for Essendon
( Vic. ), who defeated Maurice Black-
burn at the recent State election while
still holding a seat in the S. Aus.
Assembly.
“You'll ’shun an' salute when I’m doin’ rounds,” ’e
words me at last, “because
I'm General Blank!” an’ “Strike me dead,” I says,
“but I thought you was! ”
Now, there’s various generals good an’ bad, an’
some that is ’alf-an’-’alf,
Whether you take ’em at mess or rounds, or leadin’
a bloomin’ strafe;
There’s some of them ought to be weal in’ skirts, an’
some of them wholly man—
But the pick of the field at the ’ighest rail is the
true Austral-i-an.
Not that ’e'll tell you the same ’imself, not that
’e’ll let you talk
About ’is doin’s, or blazon ’em on ’is dugout-door
with chalk.
But the blokes they’ve led with never a ’int of fret
or funk or fuss
Can give you the oil about them all—an' the self-
same blokes is us !
For the general bred by the Bight or Straits, the
Baj* or the ’Arbor blue,
’E’s something more than a general: ’e’s a bloke the
same as you!
I've watched Them ’ere on the Flanders Front; they
never ’ang their sign
On a chateau ten or a dozen miles be’ind the fightin’-
line.
We'd show you the error in ’alf-a-tick if you called
them “dugout-kings,”
For they find their mark in the sweat an’ muck,
in the very ’eart of things ;
Willin’ to nose around an’ learn, ready an’ quick to
teach
The thing's ’e’s learned to another bloke—that is the
the pride of each !
Trampin’ an’ testin' an’ pokin' round, findin’ the
time to chaff
An’ sling a joke with the Duntroon boys ’e runs as
’is working-staff,
’E thinks of ’imself an’ safety last; ’e'll risk
’imself to look
To the clerks an’ runners an’ batmen, too —an’ ’e
don’t forget the cook.
’E’ll push ’is way to the farthest post when ’e fears
a flank reverse;
’E ll work all night when the good looks bad, or the
bad is showin’ worse ;
Cribbin’ a yard by the left or right, schoolin’ the
scrappy fire,
Settin’ the ’ole division straight at the end of a
speakin’-wire ;
Screwin’ the sappin’ parties up when the barrage
chucks the dirt,
Sparin’ a’ eye for the stretcher-bees, an’ a word for
the maimed or ’urt;
Weary an’ ’aggard, but ’angin’ on, when things is
lookin' black,
Countin’ the runners that stagger in, an’ them that
don't come back—•
’E’s a bullock-team an’ a phonograph an’ a sala-
mander, too ;
But ’e’d tell you off if you told ’im so—’e's a bloke
the same as you !
Oh, ’e' makes a 'obby of runnin’ risks, an’ you
wouldn’t give a brown
For ’is life when ’e lays on the sandbag-tops till the
snipers send ’im down ;
I'd ’ave grabbed ’is ankle an’ pulled ’im in, if I
’adn't been afraid,
When ’e’s balanced fast on the parapet like a tart
at a dress-parade,
’Ummin’ an’ swingin’ ’is little stick, an’ slingin’ ’is
tongue a treat
If the ’ead of one of ’is rank-and-file bobbed up on
’is workin’-beat.
’E schools ’is men like a pack of kids, an’ it gives
’im the flamin’ nark
If a workin’-partv, with tunics off, shows white an’
a’ easy mark ;
For 'e'll send ’em down or ’e’ll make ’em dress, an’
’e’ll ’over in ’andy sight
Till ’e sees that the colonel's give the word an’ ’is
men are clobbered right.
You'd cash your cheque on ’is ’arebrained cheek, if
you 'ad a cheque to cash.
’E’ll stop in the open to light 'is pipe; but you
wouldn’t call ’im rash,
For ’e frames it all as a put-up job—'e knows ’is
ways inspire
A’ easy mind in ’is common swabs, an' a scorn of
Fritz's fire.
An’ if ’e plays to a losin’ ’and—well, it’s worth a
bit to die
With never a squeak in your partin’ soul, or a blink
to your glazin' eye ;
To know, though you’ve done your little dash, you
never ’ave done your block,
That your father bred from a dinkum breed, an’ you
breed to your father’s stock.
Oh. 'e'll kid in the thick of the burstin’ shells that
war’s a blasted joke;
But ’e don't consider ’e’s Charleymong—’e’s just a
’uman bloke.
There’s twenty-six that our land ’as bore, but few of
’em known to fame ;
There’s a bare ’alf-dozen the world might know,
when it comes to their rank an’ name ;
It’s odds that, meetin’ them in the street (you’ll
seldom see them there),
You’d call them sprigs of the lower ten —an’ it’s
odds they wouldn’t care!
There's one or two that the crowd will pick an’
chuck ’em its best bokays,
While they walk, as always, deaf an' blind to the
’ole world’s blame or praise;
There’s three or four that the mob will ’and a vote
an’ a gilded name
When they fit again, when the war is done, in the
notch from which they came.
They won’t be losin’ a fortnight’s sleep, they’ll never
care a jot
If their deeds don’t go in the ’istory-books (which
the most of them will not!).
But when our bloomers are counted up, an’ there’s
nothin’ left to say,
An’ the things we didn't do, an’ why, are all
explained away,
An’ when the jobs that we did by ’alves (an’ some
of ’em pretty crook)
’Ave all been settled as “strategy,” an' wrote in a
’andsome book ;
When furrow an’ orchard, desk an’ farm, ’ave got
them again in thrall.
When they’re trainin’ kids in a barrack-school, or
vines on a ’omestead wall.
There's one place where they’ll be sittin’ yet in the
niche their ’ands ’ave made —
The ’earts of the men (the men that’s left) ’oo
fought in their old brigade !
They are the ones ’oo plan the job; they are the
men that do;
But you’d never know they was Bonapartes — they’re
blokes the same as yon '
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX ALLAN.


'""T HE character of a hat may be
l expressed by a dash of novelty, or
the more conservative observance of
present-day styles; but without it a hat is
merely a head covering, which adds nothing
to a man’s appearance and is no part of
his otherwise smart dress.
Those men, however, who pride them-
selves on their good taste in dressing will
recognise in the examples here illustrated
and described a quality and character of
unusual attraction, and which are, more-
over, exceptional value at each stated price.
tsr
Curl'
t
3
fSk
4
484 to 490 GEORGE STREET CVR\TFY
3 to 17 ROYAL ARCADE O 1 JLUL\H/ I
e Street (Near Hunter St.)
Si 1
Georg
NEW BRANCH SHOP at 304
No. I.—Felt Hat, Semi-Lounge shape as illustration, 2J-inch cut-
edge brim, self or contrast band. Stocked in shades of Grey, Brown,
and Light and Dark Slate.
No. la. —Felt Hat, shape as illustration No. 1 but with slightly less
curl of brim, in shades of Light and Dark Slate and Light Grey.
13/6.
No. 2.—Felt Hat, smartly curled, 2J-inch brim, cut edges. Available
in shades of Grey, Brown and Slate with self or contrast bands.
16/6.
No. 3—Felt Hat, with smartly set 2J-inch brim with turned edge.
Choice offers of Slate, Grey and Brown shades with 2fc-inch
COntraSl band ' 10(6, 16/6.
N). 4 Stetson Velour Felt Hat, 2i-inch brim, cut edge, extra grade
silk band. Light Fawn, Slate, Black and Brown shades are
in stock. ,
39/6.
No. 4a.—Stetson Soft Felt Hat, shape as illustration No. 4, in
shades of Light Grey, Black, Brown, and Light and Dark Grey
mixture effects.
Carriage is paid on
all Country Orders.
27/6.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman's Building
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF— BUYERS OX A SPECIALLY’ FAVORABLE
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
TARIFF OF
Silieious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Dead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL
GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge#
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hjdraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
Ropes and other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and
High-pressure Stocks generally. Best Workmanship and material.
Quotations supplied.
A MAYNE HERON, Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
♦
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’lO.. 178,939 10p.c.= 125,000 53,939 1,799,643
Premiums on new shares . . 56,720 1,856,363
Sept., TO.. 184,689 10 p.c.= 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shares .. 46,735 1,954,078
Mar.,’ll.. 201,492 10 p.e.= 143,457 58,035 2,012,113
Premiums on new shares .. 21,545 2,033,658
Sept.,’ll.. 222,043 10 p.c.= 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar., T 2.. 215,115 10 „ „ 150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept., T 2.. 214,023 10 „ ~150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., T 3.. 259,004 10 „ ~ 156,339 102,665 2,337,504
Sept., T 3.. 250,101 10 „ ~168,946 81,155 2,418,659
Mar., T 4.. 275,746 10 ~ „ 175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept., T 4.. 246,324 10 „ ~175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar., T 5.. 239,407 10 „ „ 175,000 64,407 2,655,136
Sept.,’ls.. 23D.929 10 „ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
Mar., ’16.. 227,885 10 „ „ 175,000 52,885 2,763,950
Sept.,’l6.. 246,425 10 „ „ 180,133 66,292 2,830,242
Mar., T 7.. 279,050 10 „ „ 194,464 84,586 2,914,828
Sept., T 7.. 274,603 10 „ ~ 195,243 79,360 2,994,188
This bank shows more strikingly than any
other the effect of war finance in Australia.
Not in the profits so much as in the
balance-sheet figures; for the management is
prudently putting aside any profit that it
may be making in excess of what it earned
just prior to the war and saving it for con-
tingencies. That it is making larger profits
seems highly probable on these figures:—
Sept., 1914. Sept., 1916. Sept.. 1917.
Notes .. £287,655 £455,620 £499,203
Bills, etc. . . 6,594,816 7,616,870 7,566,062
Deposits . . 36,722,127 39,282,708 40,579,001
Liquid assets 21,779,988 24,907,274 28,682,944
Advances ..27,207,838 28,243,137 26,132,991
Premises .. 795,000 835,000 825,000
Since September, 1914—a month or so after
war started —the public’s money with this
bank (including notes issued in Maoriland)
has thus increased from £43,604,598 to
£48,644,266 —something over five millions. It
as just as significant >hat advances have
actually shrunk ; but /avX is due possibly to
the sale of wool at boom prices to Britain
and the Allies rather than to the rapid cir-
culation of millions raised on Australian
war-loan and other paper. The result of
this increase of deposits and decrease of
advances is shown in liquid assets, which are
nearly seven millions more. But look at this
comparison:—•
Sept., 1914. Sept., 1917.
Coin and bullion .. .. £12,828,662 £10,581,668
Commonwealth notes .. 1,532,121 2,967,888
Fiji Govt, notes .. .. 17,250
Notes of other banks .. 72,621 331,907
Short call in London . . 670,000 960,000
British and Aus. Govt, securi-
ties 3,026,164 10,414,265
Municipal and other securities 286,014 724,125
Due by other banks.. .. 107,466 213,132
Bills receivable in London
and remittances.. .. 3,256,940 2,472,708
Total .. .. £21,779,988 £28,682,943
Actually, therefore, though what are gener-
ally described as liquid assets are nearly
seven millions more, the holding of cash and
bullion is £2,246,994 less. The holding of
paper, of one sort and another, apart from
bills receivable in London, is approximately
10 millions more. In other words, the bank
holds the taxpayers’ mostly interest-bearing
lOU for about 10 millions in excess of what
was in the till three years ago; and it is this
that is responsible for the increase in the
aggregate figures.
All of which means that we are discount-
ing the future. A bank, nominally, at any
rate, doesn’t lend against the future earn-
ings of its customers. It wants security for
its advances —something which it can take
out into the market and turn into money.
But whatever the theory, in practice banks
are lending their funds on the security of
future taxable earnings. And that is why
The Bulletin doubts whether earnings of
banks will be very much larger for a good
many years to come than they are now; for
at present they are earning on capital which
isn’t yet realised, and their balance-sheet
figures will probably be very little larger
seven or eight years hence than they are
now. But in that connection it is as well to
recall what was said up above —that this
bank may really be earning now a good deal
more than it discloses, preferring to lay by
the special war earnings to help to meet that
proportion of the war expenditure which it
will presently have to provide.
* * * *
Hydro-Electric Department of Tas-
mania.—The annual report, just issued,
shows the total capital cost to the State up
to the present to be £507.526, including over
£lOO,OOO paid to the Hobart Gas Co. for its
Electric light and Power Department. For
the period under review, which covers only
104 months, the total receipts were £26,000,
whilst the expenditure, including working
costs and interest, amounted to £36,000,
showing an actual loss of £lO,OOO. The
working costs of both operation and lighting
branches totalled, in round figures, £17,000,
so that the scheme at this early stage has
contributed £2OOO towards interest charges,
in addition to covering working costs. The
operation branch, or bulk-power scheme,
which has cost about £395,000, and was
debited for the 104 months with an interest
charge of £12.000'. together with _ working
costs amounting to £6OOO, earned £7OOO. It
has, therefore, had a surplus of revenue over
working costs of £lOOO towards interest. It
is estimated that as soon as the arrival of
certain machinery enables them to fully load
the present scheme, the extra revenue from
the contracts with the Amalgamated Zinc
Co. and the carbide works will more than
wipe out the loss of £lO,OOO within 12
months. Both these concerns should be in
full operation early in the New Year, and
will require more power than the Govern-
ment is in a position to supply until the
second unit is installed. This is being held
back by the difficulty of securing machinery,
but the present installation will be sufficient
to cover all costs. The capital cost per h.p.
of maximum demand under present condi-
tions approximates £l5O. These costs, it is
estimated, will be reduced in the second
stage of the scheme, with the Zinc Co. and
the Carbide Co. taking their first blocks of
power, to £55 ; and when the third stage of
the scheme is reached, and these two cus-
tomers take their full blocks of 30,000 and
10,000 h.p. respectively, the estimate is £23
per h.p.
The District, or Lighting. Branch, pur-
chased from the Hobart Gas Co. at a cost of
£lOB,OOO, is charged with an interest bill of
£6OOO. Working costs were £17,000 and
revenue £24,000, leaving a profit over work-
ing expenses of £7OOO. There was thus an
actual profit over all charges of something
over £lOOO. This business is capable of con-
siderable expansion ; but owing to high cost
of material and for other reasons, it is not
being vigorously pushed at present.
* * * *
Farmer and Co., Ltd., who run a soft-
goods shop in Sydney :
, Dividends. s
Julv, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
1906. . £19,001 £12,000 4 p.c.=£6,249 £939
1907.. 22,223 12,000 7 „ „ 10,936 226
1908.. 28,702 12,000 8 „ „ 12,498 4,430
1909.. 32,706 12,000 8 „ ~ 12,498 12,638
1910.. 35,206 12,000 8 „ ~12,498 23,346
1911.. 38,945 12,000 10 „ „ 15,623 34,668
1912.. 43,027 12,000 121 „ ~19,529 46,166
1913.. 47,223 12,000 121 „ „ 19,529 61,860
Premiums on new shares, £17,508. . 79,368
1914.. 48,453 12,000 124 p.c.= 20,134 95,687
1915.. 41,814 12,000 10 „ ~20,000 105,501
1916.. *40,161 12,000 124 „ ~ 25,000 108,662
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c.
1917.. *43,940 12,000 602 30,000 110,000
♦Exclusive of appropriations to Reserve for War
Taxation and Contingencies.
If you include the appropriations to reserve
for war taxation and contingencies the profit
was £50,161 for the year to the end of July,
1916. and £68.910 for the past year. Twelve
months ago the appropriation was £10,000;
and as that amount still stands as a reserve,
it follows that the taxes paid during the past
year have been charged up to Profit and
Loss. All the same, the directors have done
the right thing in snipping off substantial
amounts from current profits, made while the
war-loans are being spent, and putting them
by to meet the taxes that will have to be
paid when the war is over and the loan-
moneys are all spent and the repayment
begins and when, moreover, a large sum for
pensions will have to be provided out of
taxation. In those days, ft is true, the
interest and repayments of principal will for
the greater part be spent in this country,
thanks to the practice of floating war-loans
locally; and it is well worth considering
what businesses will be then most likely to
benefit by these payments out of the Treasury.
On the whole, no doubt, Farmer’s will do
much better than a great many other houses,
because their customers come very largely
from the class which is contributing most
solidly to the loans.
Until a few years ago the bulk of the
shares were held in England, and the head-
office was in London. In those days the
ordinary shares w T ere in a comparatively
few hands, and capital expenditure was met
out of profits. Thus the dividends on
ordinaries varied considerably. As the pub-
lic came in it was realised that the dividend
should be made as regular as possible. Sur-
plus profits were thus put to reserve
accounts. and capital expenditure was
charged to capital account. Ten years
ago pref. capital was £200.000; ordinary
capital £156,230 —all in £lO shares. In
1913-4 the remaining 4377 £lO ordinary
shares were issued at a premium of £4.
carrying the ordinary capital to £200.000.
In 1915-6 all the shares were divided and
made £1 shares; and during the past year.
partly in order to strengthen the Australian
interest in the co. and partly because the
British War Regulations stood in the way of
the issue of new capital in England, it was
resolved to issue to * shareholders on
Australian register, who then held 202,710
shares, the same number of new 7 p.c.
second pref. shares. This issue was over-
applied for; and 10s. per share has been paid
on them. The capital thus now stands at
£501,355. The main purpose of the new issue
was the purchase of property to complete the
co.’s magnificent Pitt-Market-George-street
block ; “and the directors anticipate that the
growth of the business will eventually jus-
tify the erection of suitable buildings.” A
further change, consequent on the transfer
of the full management to Australia, was
the appointment of the four Australian
directors as managing directors. These
constitute the Board; and it was a com-
pliment to the co.’s business organisation that
when the Commonwealth Government
recently appointed a committee of three
experts—one each from Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide —to organise the business side
of the Defence Department, James Chalmers,
one of this co.’s managing directors, was
named as the Sydney member.
The co.’s position is exceptionally strong.
Though the goodwill is enormously valuable,
not a penny of capital is represented by that
or any other hypothetical asset. Here are
the grouped balance-sheet figures:—
1912. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities ..£102,935 £194,445 £216,555
Freeholds .. 283,481 429,615 443,805
Leaseholds . . 15,328 14,369 13,007
Stock.. .. 156,477 221,782 232.050
Book debts and
Jiquidassets. . 63,324 62,341 194,017
Book debts (£56,558)and liquid assets (prac-
tically all cash) amount to nearly as much
as the liabilities ; so that against the capital
the shareholders have almost the finest free-
hold in Sydney and. a stock which, though
standing at £232,050, it is safe to say has
been valued very conservatively. The book
value of the co.’s freehold is nearly all rep-
resented by capital carrying only 6 p.c. and
7 p.c.; and that simplifies the earning of a
more substantial dividend for the ordinaries
out of the trading.
The Executor. Trustee and Agency Co.
of South Australia (Adelaide) :
Written Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
1906.. 7 p.c. = £1075 £l5l £1436 £8,636
1907.. 4013 7 „ „ 1075 100 2838 11,474
1908.. 3776 8 „„ 1228 100 2448 13,922
1909.. 4340 8 „„ 1228 100 3012 16,934
1910.. 5568 8 „ „ 1228 100 4240 21,174
Premiums on new shares .. 4820 25,994
1911.. 5472 8 p.c. = 1486 364 3622 29,616
1912.. 5421 10 „ „ 2285 200 2936 32,552
Premiums on new shares .. 182 32,734
1913.. 5314 10-p.c. = 2287 3027 35,761
Premiums on new shares .. 125 35,886
1914.. 5359 10 p.c. = 2318 3041 38,927
1915.. 5874 10 „„ 2322 1000 2552 41,479
Premiums on new shares .. 125 41,604
1916.. 4388 10 p.c. = 2330 2058 43,662
Premiums on new shares .. 307 43,969
1917.. 5729 10 p.c. = 2358 1500 1871 45,840
This co. is 38 years old ; and when a trustee
co. is 38 years old it is well in its stride.
Not even the most friendly promoters of a
new trustee co. seem to be willing to hasten
their death by a day in order to give the
infant something to do ; but the time comes
when the co. can’t be cheated out of its
business and its profits any longer. At the
end of the co.’s first 21 years the value of
the estates in hand was £654,500; at the
end of the next 17 years the total was up to
£3,349,182. This shows the progression :
1895 .. £482,987 I 1913 ..£2,541,379
1900 . . 654,500 1914 . . 2,752,126
1905 .. 1,413,953 [ 1915 .. 2,953,607
1910 . . 2,309,316 i 1916 . . 3,194,898
1912 .. 2,550,825 j 1917 .. 3,349,182
The rapid movement during the past six
years—a million has been added —is no doubt
partly due to the increase in capital values;
and with heavy taxes to pay and high in-
terest rates current, there probably won’t be
the same gain during the next few years.
But that won’t be all loss to this and other
trustee cos.; for while less will come to them
from corpus commissions, more will come
from the annual commission on income. For
instance, compare the total earnings from an
estate of £30.000 earning 4 p.c. and one of
£24,000 earning 5 p.c., assuming in both cases
that it remains in the co.’s hands for 15
years : (1) 14 p.c. on £30.000 = £450. 4 p.c.
on £l2OO £4B = £720 for 15 yeals. Total
charges, £ll7O. (21 14 p.c. on £24.000 =
£360. 4 p.c. on £l2OO = £4B = £720 for 15
years. Total charges, £lOBO. So the co..
notwithstanding the shrinkage in capital
value of £6OOO, is. only £9O worse off in that
case. In one case its total charge for the
whole 15 years is 3.9 p.c. of the value of the
estate ; in the other, when the estate is pro-
ducing 5 p.c*. instead of 4 p.c., the total
charge over 15 years is 4.5 p.c. of the capital
value. For 44 p.c., that is, it administers an
estate for 15 years, giving it the advantage of
the services not only of the co.’s salaried
specialists, but also of half a dozen of the
best-known commercial men of the State. When
you come to think of it, an estate that can
command even a little of the n tw
the S.A. managers of three firms
Scarfes, Dalgety’s and G. and It WtiU r 1 *
advantages that many a man must be
he can t command while he is alive” l l
behind that is the guarantee of the co-1
capital and reserves. It reallv isn’t Co : s
ing that trustee cos. continue‘to' make
way ; and It will be astonishing if tht
don t go on doing it. 8 ltle J
* * *
;^ 00LLEN Factory Co. *(Dum
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off* 11
1005. . £3,312 31 p.e. = £2921 £ 39s #A!® rVes *
1906.. 2,483 2i „ „ 2086 HI ?>?”
1907.. 6,093 4 „ „ 3MB 1695 60 w’lfj
1908.. 7,073 5 „ „ 4173 2746 iSt }i’2 U
1909.. 7,230 Bi „ „ 4590 2500 140 U’SH
1910.. 9,846 6 „„ 5007 4500 338 ‘s
1911.. 8,466 6 „„ 5007 3000 459 s’lnt
1912.. 11,827 7 „ „ 5842 5500 485
1913.. 10.428 7 „ „ 5842 4500 86
1914.. 9.450 7 „ „ 5842 4000 - !’
1915. . 12,937 7 „ „ 5842 6000 2095 20 5?
1916.. 24,607 9 „„ 7511 7510 9586 m’S*
1917.. 10,012 9 „ „ 7511 6500 -1 g’Jg
Twelve months ago it was remarked in nost
morteming this co.’s accounts: “N 0 special
provision seems to be made for war taxes
Something substantial may. therefore have to
come off the figures later on.” The some”
thing substantial is charged against this
year’s figures. The manufacturing profit is
almost as good as it was last year but
charges, including provision for income tax
have knocked the head off it
Manufacturing Charges
Profit. (including taxesl
1914 .. £21,723 £5,684
1915 . . 25,932 5,482
1916 .. 40,306 6,918
1917 .. 36,542 16,959
And a burden of taxation, though it may
not be so heavy because the profit will pro-
bably shrink, is bound to be felt for years
to come. In plain terms, the co. made a
profit during the last three years out of a
disaster costing millions of money, and it
will now have to steadily pay its" share of
those millions. In the circumstances the
directors are to be complimented upon refus-
ing to increase the dividend beyond the old
7 p.c., while paying a bonus of "no more than
2 p.c. By retaining so large a proportion of
the tentative profits in the business they
have made it easier to meet the future calls
of the taxation commissioner. This com-
parison shows the principal balance-sheet
figures:—
1907. 1914. 1917.
Liabilities . . .. .. £15,300 £13,687 £21,943
Plant and fixed property .. 69,459 66,391 56,447
Goods 42,119 44.407 58,045
Book debts and sundries .. 7,532 10,705 24,583
Thus in the three years the co. has added
£27.000 to its stock, book debts and cash, and
on the other side its liabilities have increased
by only £BOOO. True, plant and fixed pro-
perty are nominally worth £lO.OOO less; but
as a matter of fact over £lO,OOO has been
spent in the three years on replacements and
additions. Nobody can tell yet what the
early future of this industry is going to be
in Maoriland and Australia. Everybody
knows that we ought to be manufacturing
our own wool instead of supplying the raw
material on which others may build indus-
tries and population, and grow great, as Ger-
many did. But that means High Protection
for a while; also, in order to secure the
foreign market, it means buc-kling-to with
energy. Whether we shall be permitted to
make what tariffs we like remains to be seen.
And whether we shall put enough vigor into
our industries also remains to be seen. We
can secure our own markets by tariffs if we
are allowed to make them, but no matter
what the tariff we can’t secure foreign mar-
kets on go-slow principles. And it ought
to be understood by this time that we simply
must get foreign markets for something.
We can’t pay interest on our huge foreign
debt in any other way.
The Newcastle Building and Invest-
ment Co. (Newcastle. N.S.W.) re-
written Off
(including
Losses on
Reali- To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. sation). serves, serves.
1905.. £5250 6 p.c. = £5033 £9O £127 £52,219
1906.. 5539 6 „ „ 5033 266 240 52,459
1907.. 5453 6 „ „ 5033 924 51,955
1908.. 5963 7 „., 5872 708 51,338
1909.. 6958 71 „., 62 9 2 20 5 46 1 51,799
1910.. 6398 ‘7* „ „ 58 7 2 43 3 9 3 51,892
1911.. 6437 7 „., 58 7 2 671 51,786
1912.. 7278 71 ~ ~ 6292 3096 49,676
1913.. 6368 71 „,. 62 9 2 51 5 49,237
1914.. 7506 7i „ „ 6292 1642 48,809
19 1 5.. 91 8 4 8 ~ 69 4 9 1 006 1 229 50,038
1916.. 9285 8 „ 7437 12 1836 51,874
1917.. 8959 8 „ „ 7927 1488 51,418
Twenty-one years ago this concern took over
the Newcastle Permanent Investment and
Building Co., whose assets consisted almost
wholly of foreclosures; and against them a
contingency account, consisting of doubtful
capital, was 'created. The coal trade was
for some years brisk, and the co. realised its
properties to much better advantage than
seemed probable in the days of gloom. In
1898 the properties in possession were valued
in the books at about £llO.OOO. and the
contingency fund was £48,011. Properties


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
We are instructed by the Commonwealth
Government to pay the following
Increased Prices at Producing Centres
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- per
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 50/- per
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, So. 10 Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£O2 IS 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year .. .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars. —Advt.
Even the fellow who builds castles in the air
doesn’t have to be a “high-flier” to avail himself of
a good roofing. The exorbitant price of galvanised-
iron can be avoided by roofing with “Adamax.”
“Adamax” Asphaltum Roofing is not only about one-
third the cost, but it embodies many advantageous
features which galvanised-iron lacks. “Adamax” is
rust-proof, fire-resistant, and will not rot, pinhole
nor decay. Being of a portable nature it reduces
freight charges by almost 40 per cent., and it also
effects a big saving in time of application. If you
have a roofing problem to consider it will pay you
to investigate the merits of “Adamax” Asphaltum
Roofing. Write for the “Adamax” booklet, contain-
ing full particulars. William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
ADVT.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.—Advt. [1
* » * *
Have you clearly understood that Pioneer Wood
Pipe can not only save you money, but can also save
you a lot of worry and annoyance with rusting and
corroding pipes? Its durability is beyond question.
Water preserves the wood. Send for illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(head office), Burns Bay Road, Longueville. Con-
tractors to all Slate Governments. Factories: Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. Footscray, Victoria;
and Port Adelaide, S.A.—Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.—Advt.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.
Earth-handling Machinery: Road Graders, Scoops and
Ploughs. Concrete-mixing Machinery: The famous
“Austin” Cube Concrete Mixers in dofferent sizes and
capacities. “Robey” Portable Steam Engines, 8,
14 and 16 nom.-h.p. “National” Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. “Leplastrier” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds and
Collapsible Moulds for Concrete Culverts. Brisbane
inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.,
Charlotte Street. —Advt.
* * * *
The extraordinary success and popularity of the
Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler, so univer-
sally used where the economy in steam-raising is con-
sidered, is due, no doubt, to the splitting up of the
water into 4in. tubes, which permit of rapid circula-
tion and excellent facilities for cleaning, the heavy
lin. plates used in the Shell Boiler being done away
with.—Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
» * * »
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street. Melbourne. —Advt.
iARIBOftNTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\Y. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICE 3:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
iu possession have now been worked down
to £26,389, and the fund still stands at
£31,549. Three or four years ago, when it
looked as though the book values of what
was left would be realised or thereabouts,
the shares were nibbled at in the expecta-
tion that the contingency fund would be
capitalised ; but if that was contemplated
the plan, like many more, has had to be put
in cold storage. As the money for the old
properties has been got in it has been in-
vested either in new ones or in advances;
and the co. has also borrowed considerably
on deposits to finance the loan business. The.
next table show's the movements:—
Liabilities.
1900. 1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Deposits . .£17,610 £30.170 £62,896 £60,893 £70,424
Other debts.. 633 344 537 2,062 136
Assets.
Advances .. 29.302 51,119 118,071 125,617 133,291
Foreclosures 101,243 61,655 33,690 32,596 26,389
Other property 7,183 54,057 53,785 54,042 54,792
Liquid assets 18,739 2,369 889 2,022 11,871
Nearly everything depends upon the pru-
dence with which the new advances have
heen made. The “other property” consists
mostly of solid Newcastle city purchases,
which are now 7 giving a good return and are
likely to go on doing it. The small balance
of properties consists of land purchased for
subdivision : the latest deal was at Oessnoek,
and there is probably more to be done in
that direction. It is, of co'urse, easily pos-
sible to advance too much on Newcastle as
on other properties; but there is such an
assured future for the city that, though
values may slump in a time of great gloom,
a recovery is fairly certain if the co. can
nurse its securities. And that means
restriction of borrowing: a co. can always
nurse the properties represented by its own
funds, but it can’t nurse those represented
by deposits for w T hich the owners are clamor-
ing.
Chas. 11. Kerry simply has to mother one
of every litter of mining cats, whether they
be tame or wild, and Itatrut Basin is his
special charge among the Malayans. It has
just issued in Sydney its first report for a
productive period. The dredge worked for
eight months of the year to the end of May ;
and after waiting down plant at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a. there was a profit of £8787.
In ’a supplementary report Kerry says that
for the following five months there w-as a
w r orking profit of £10,900: —
The dredge has turned over 276,000 cub. yards
for a recovery of 125.98 tons tin oxide, which realised
£16,373. As the costs amounted to £5473 for this
period a working profit of £10,900 is shown.
Exes, apart from depreciation and adminis-
tration averaged £1023 in the first eight
months, so apparently the £5473 represents
the costs for the five months exclusive of
depreciation and administration. The for-
mer is £3OO a month, the latter £lOO. The
net profit for the five months was therefore,
it seems, about £B9OO, or £2OOO less than
the chairman’s “working profit.” Total for
13 months, £17,657. For that three
dividends have been paid, the last on Novem-
ber 7, totalling £15,000. The co. isn’t keep-
ing much in hand. The dredge has not been
an unqualified success. The tables can’t
deal with all the stuff the buckets can raise,
and in order to save the tin the duty of
the buckets had to be reduced. The average
save for the eight months was .831 b. per
yard. The tails are said to have averaged
.161 b. That w 7 ould make a total value of
.991 b. per yard; yet the directors go to a
lot of trouble to show that the manager’s
valuation of 1.251 b. for the ground ahead
of the bore might be made a lot higher. All
the same, the recovery for the _past five
months w 7 orks out at only 1.021 b. per yard.
The fact is that the Ratrut ground is very
patchy; and there is a suspicion, too, that
there are considerable extraction difficulties
ahead.
* * * »
Some day a statue of Gapt. Teddy Miles
ought to be made in tin and put up in, say,
Hobart. For it was he who introduced
Tongkah Harbor to the Jones jam people;
and as the IXL the syndicate first made its
appearance. Upon that followed the Tong-
kah Compound; and since then there has
been a brood of the best dividend-layers
Australia has hatched for many a year.
Tongkah itself to the end of September had
grabbed up 9767 tons from the bottom of
the shallow “harbor,” and has got £1,026,247
for it. Out of this it has paid £345,000,
equal to 465. per share. In the past year
the co.’s 10th—it made £67,924, after writ-
ing off £8463 for depreciation: it paid
£37,500 during the year, and £22,500 in
October, making the total £60,000, which
was also the amount paid in the previous
year. The average won was ,7231 b. per yd.,
which was worth 9.439 d. In 1914-5, when
.9231 b. per yd. was got, it was worth only
Id. more. Costs (exclusive of depreciation)
were 4.403 d. Depreciation is, however, very
heavy, because the plant is admittedly being
run almost to a standstill owing to the
tremendous difficulty of getting spares and
repair materials. However, even after pro-
viding for the £22,500 div. paid just after
the year closed, the co. had over £30,000 in
hand, practically all cash.
The investor will be less interested in what
lias been done than in what remains to do.
The co., though it has had five dredges on
the job for a good many years, has worked out
only 487 acres, which is less than one-tenth
ot its area. But, though it always has been
exceedingly difficult to tell what is ahead,
there is little doubt that the bulk of what
is left is unpayable. The dredged area is in
the shape of a blunt wedge, with the butt
end on the shore, and the bores along the
sides of the w 7 edge give poor results, though
there are good patches. Beyond the blunt
point, however, there is coarse tin for a con-
siderable distance yet, but the good ground
is plainly narrowing. To reach this tin it
will be necessary to provide more powerful
dredges; and that can’t be done in a hurry.
The future is speculative; and the risk
doesn’t all depend on the behavior of the
tin market. Nos. 5 and 6 dredges, which
last year worked the outermost parts, gave
the poorest averages; the others were em-
ployed chiefly in picking up small, unworked
areas close in, now exhausted. Working
under a few feet of water has this advan-
tage: with the help of a small tug—put
together on the premises—they can easily
shift the dredges about, so that to pick up
patches they don’t have to do a lot of
unprofitable dredging, making a channel to
float in. This ability to work patches
cheaply will no doubt greatly prolong the life
of the co.
Whittling down has been the programme
at the Ronpibon Board meetings. This is
because most of the big tin options held
have not bored well. The co. is left with
a half-interest in the western Ronpibon
area, on which Miles’s Deebook No. 1 dredge
is ploughing through stiff clay, and the
south-western ground, which the Trong
crowd turned down also because of clay.
This leaves the co. to look out for an enter-
prising firm of dredge builders who will
guarantee delivery. Eric Moore put this
90 acres down as over lib. ground, and the
Trong people’s check-boring ran out at
14J0z., so that the proposition is good enough
if a dredge can be got. The same position
exists in the deep western ground. The co.
has also to make up its mind how to handle
the Talerm block, miles north of the
Ronpibon, which has passed muster. Pos-
sibly Palfreyman will spare the co. some of
the profits his South African jam business
has been yielding to move things along.
Tin has at last crept past £300; and
the Australian dredging cos. in Malaya
are coining money, if they have any sort of
ground at all. Kampong Kamunting during
October got £9680 for its product (and one
of the two dredges was in poor ground),
and working costs (not including deprecia-
tion) were only £2387.
Melbourne - owned Adelong Estates
(N.S.W.) is almost certain to close the year
without a break in its long run of 2000 z-
. yields. No. 2 dredge bas done great
things. From May 1 to November 1 its
yields from 371,000 cub. yds. brought in
£20,431, against £6562 of expenses. Along-
side this No. l’s record of £8324 from
328,600 cub. yds. looks poor stuff; yet £3526
came as profits. Altogether six months’
work netted £15,134, enabling the co. to pay
off the remaining £3OOO of debentures. Sur-
plus liquid assets on October 31 were £9796.
Manager George warns all and sundry
against building on a long run of exceptional
yields, though things are sure to be better
than normal for a long time ahead. His
trouble is to pick up spares at a decent
price, increases in some cases being as much
as 700 p.c.
“Edsays”: J. McKeon has returned to
Melbourne from Broken Hill for the pur-
pose of forming a syndicate to work the
recently-opened wolfram field at Thompson
Siding, near Silverton. McKeon has long
been chasing wolfram and molybdenite all
over Australia, in Asia and throughout the
Pacific, and he uses up a cartload of adjec-
tives over this show.
* * * *
Chillagoe has nearly beaten its own
record: it has just issued its accounts and
report to December 31 last. Not that it
matters much: shareholders have long since
written off their interest. The directors
have, however, been hanging on, not at all
content that the debenture-holders should
take the whole thing over; and even if the
bulk of the concern is sold to the Govern-
ment there will still be a chance of pick-
ings. P. and L. account for the current
year shows: “Directors’ fees (Melbourne),
1914-15-16. £4738.” But for those inside
Chillagoe there has now and then been some-
thing better than Board fees. For the mere
shareholder the proposition has always been
a disaster and on occasions a confidence
trick. If the deal with the Government
comes off all that will be left to the co. will
be the Mt. Mulligan coal-mines. Shareholders
have had their legs well pulled, first, over
the Chillagoe mines, next over the railway,
then over the smelting possibilities, and
finally over Etheridge and Einasleigh. The
leg-pulling possibilities of those things hav-
ing been exhausted, somebody else may as
well have them. There are still a few possi-
bilities about the newer Mulligan coal-field ;
so that is hung on to. On past perform-
ances the shareholders will get nothing : the
chances are that they will be strung on and
probably lured into a few reconstructions.
If they can get a few thousands for their
interest in Mulligan they should take it.
At any rate, the Government should not
buy the railway and the smelters without
the coal.
Ore reserves make a better showing in
Mick Williams’s half-yearly estimates for
Edna May (W.A.) than most Collins-street
experts allow. Compared with those of
April they run out thus: —
r —April, r-Oct.,
Level. Tons. Value. Tons. Value.
73ft. . . 3,500 34/6 3,000 31/-
150 ft. .. 2,350 34/6 1,990 29/6
225 ft. .. 3,150 28/9 2,550 25/3
300 ft. .. 12,100 90/9 3,737 89/6
385 ft. .. 22,350 80/- 20,600 70/6
480 ft. .. 18,516 67/-
In April 43.450 tons were available, averag-
ing 735., or a total of £158,914, whereas to-
day the total is 50,393 tons worth 645. 6d.
per ton, or a total of £162,176. In October,
1916, Williams made up his mind that in
the next six months he could break ore worth
80s. per ton ; and he did, for he got 82s. 4d.
Then lie had an idea that the cream was off
the milk, for he cut down the ore in reserve
to 735. per ton. As things turned out, that
wasn’t enough of a cut, for the 18,092 tons
drawn for the six months gave him only
635. 2d. What slipped him up must have
been a drop in the grade of the 385 ft. stopes,
whence nearly 50 p.c. of the ore treated
came; so now he whittles the values of the
20,600 tons still to come from that quarter
of the mine to 70s. 6d., which is bringing
things down to the right point. Incidentally
he abandons hope of Edna May ever getting
back to 3s. divs. It is doubtful, though,
whether Williams will get even 645. 4d. from
the 50,393 tons he computes he can beat
out down to 480 ft. If, by being free of the
necessity for further shaft sinking, he can
get his costs down to 275. 6d., he can return
435. to shareholders in IS months. But even
if a full extraction of 645. 4d. per ton be
obtained shares are at full value. Also 2 p.c.
has to be written off for loss in residues, and
if there be any shrinkage in the grade,
another detrimental factor appears. Seeing
how Deeps stone at 476 ft. averaged, there
should not be much fear over values, but
reserves may not be as big as Williams
works out. Though it is expensive lifting
50,000 gals, of water hourly, yet that is one
of the Edna’s “bull” points. Everyone
knows that Williams has been draining the
field, and lie is sure to bill the other mines
pretty stiffly for work done. If he can rake
in £lO,OOO from his neighbors, 3s. is added
to divs. Plant is also an asset, which may
be another 2s. or 3s.
Since dealings in Chaffers (W.A.) were
blocked on the London Stock Exchange, the
co. has appointed a new local director and
set out to prove that its present holdings at
Leonora are not as valueless as some people
declare. Official records, it is stated, show
that one property has produced over 3000 oz.
from 1700 tons, while another has yielded
4500 z. from (500 tons. But whether any-
thing worth while is left is not stated.
Some time ago Golden Point (W.A.) took
an option on an area adjoining the Sand
Queen, at Comet Vale, and immediately
began to whoop about its good fortune.
Thinking that the co. would like to get as
near as possible to where the Sand Queen
shoot petered out, instead of having its
boundary some distance away, a well-wisher
offered the directors a block in between for
£5OO. No business, however, resulted. Sub-
sequently the purchase of the area one block
away was completed at a cost of £2OOO.
The Bulletin opined at the time that the
co. was wasting money in opening up
the show, but it was only the other day,
when funds became almost exhausted and
reconstruction was inevitable *£hat the direc-
tors began to look at things in this light.
For the third time since a mill was in-
stalled and shareholders were promised
something, Black Range Pinnacles (W.A.)
has stopped crushing and shut down. First
it was want of water, then shortage of
developed ore, and now inefficient labor and
high cost of mining supplies. The truth, of
course, is that troublesome ore at depth
makes it necessary for all other conditions to
be favorable.
A few Kalgoorlie speculators, headed by
Charlie Cutbush, recently put up £l5OO to
buy a rich surface show near the 42 mile
between Coolgardie and Menzies. The pro-
spectors dollied over £lOOO before selling out,
and Cutbush and co. have since got back
nearly the whole of what they gambled.
Prospects underfoot are said to be decidedly
promising.
New Ruby Flat, Bradshaw’s Creek (Tas.),
issues its balance-sheet just when splendid
old Andrew Stenhouse, its big shareholder,
is celebrating a remarkable double —his 81st
birthday and the amputation of a leg at the
thigh. The manager reckons that the co.
has several profitable years ahead, for with
tin at £3OO a cheaply-worked show like the
Ruby can soon pile up profits provided the
weather is not against sluicing. Recent re-
turns have not been good because a lot of
old ground has had to go to the sluice-boxes;
but they will be handling better stuff from
now on.
John Couchman, after years of service, is
shifting out of Oswald’s, Maldon (Vic.).
His last six months’ battery campaign was
on stone from the 500 ft. and 1000 ft. stopes,
and it netted enough to pay a couple of Is.
divs. At the 900 ft. stopes, however, the
gold went out of the stone under the influ-
ence of a fault, which shortened the shoot
to a miserable 50ft. Overhead a big reef
makes, and as there is plenty of mineral in
it there is a chance of the gold returning as
work gets away from the break. The co.
has a reef 20ft. wide at 1450 ft., but the
stone carries only enough gold to give a
color in the dish. Boring east and west at
different points has furnished results as blue
as the drill core. Couchman urges prospect-
ing near the surface and the extension of
the 1450 ft. level.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 26.)


Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/®
„ (Daily) „ 11/®
Bed and Breakfast ®/®
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Charles
Neidsiecks
Vintage 1906
QfIRNE
NE PLUS ULTRA
i
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
eobta ßr^ SUOpS
1 \OO street- & point
?JIS «■s££"** |
43& P'S 1 d street. S> a< id'»ngt on * \1
Uef, Oeot* e £
e t.Sy^
« efl " BWerpo >t
i .mm-ini ' S»«>p» ln
■ Si*J> ttt ®*
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906-
FE.SQ (Sk CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
The Tonfckah Harbor Tin-dredfcing Company
NO LIABILITY.
IS HEREB\ Gil EX that a General Meet-
ing of Shareholders in the above-named Com-
pany will be held at the Masonic Hall, Murray
Street, Hobart, on FRIDAY, 21st DECEMBER 1917
at 3 p.m., for the purposes following, namely:— ’
1. To receive the Directors’ Eleventh Annual Report
arid Balance-sheet, which will be presented for
adoption.
2. To elect two Directors. Messrs. H. Jones and
Khaw Joo Tok retire but are eligible, and offer
themselves for re-election.
3. To appoint Auditors.
4. 1 o transact any other ordinary business of the
Company.
By order of the Directors,
. H. J. WISE,
Hobart, oth December. 1917. Manager.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company
We Supply— . w „ d .
JARRAH and Tasmanian * a ‘
wood Piles, Beams, Sleep 6 * 1 '
Paving Blocks, Bui 1 ( e 1
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, V
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.'V.
Branches in all parts of the wo f
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 17, 1917.
My Dear Arini, —
Dr. Morrison, the Australian who is the
Political Adviser to the Government of a
mere 300-odd millions, is almost shy when he
gets into his own people’s cities again ; and
as he talks to you in a soft, rather high-
pitched voice he is probably fingering his
collar or gently patting the silver hair with
which he is still well thatched. You wouldn’t
guess for a moment that he had just come
out of a Bond-street tailor’s. No, he doesn’t
get his “European” clothes from London —
or Melbourne or his native Geelong either.
“Nearly everything I’m wearing I bought at”
—and I couldn’t catch the gently-spoken
name. “There are three big stores, one each
at Peking, Nanking and Shanghai, estab-
lished on the model of your Anthony Hor-
derns’. The founder is a Chinese from Aus-
tralia who has a capital of two millions
behind him. Yes, quite European; every
attendant has to speak some English. Six
storeys, I fancy, one of the places is, with a
roof-garden and all that sort of thing.
The Chinese will pay to learn English ; they
have to be paid to learn any other language.
“They've really got to like us. Of course,
they think we’re fearfully rude and don’t
know anything about etiquette and all that
sort of thing. But we appeal to them as not
being so aggressively rude as most others;
and w r e keep our word. That is most im-
portant.”
So I gather that the Chinese likes us
because, though we never can be like him.
we are as like him as anybody’s able to be.
I wanted to know about Korea, for he had
been up there lately. Were the Japs find-
ing in that country an outlet for their sur-
plus millions? “No; the Japanese popula-
tion of Korea is increasing by only 30,000 a
year. But the Korean population is growing
at the rate of 600,000 a year. It is very
wonderful. The Japanese organisation has
been most successful. Have you seen the
Japanese official report on Korea —published
every year? The changes reported read
almost like fairy-tales. And it is true. But
the Japanese coolies are not going there.
It is the same with Formosa. And I think
the climate of Manchuria would be too rigor-
ous for them.”
The Chinese are great pill-takers. There
are thousands of Japs peddling medicines
through the country. “Why,” Dr. Morrison
said, “do you know that you can trace the
literature of some of the pills that Aus-
tralia knows best right into Thibet!”
Some journalists and politicians, with
Premier Holman to offer a brilliant note of
introduction, gave Morrison a midday snack
on this Monday. Near the guest of honor
sat a U.S.A. visitor, Dr. Snowdon, large
and handsome. Chatting afterwards to a
big assembly, the great Australian spoke
softly and slowly, swaying his body gently
—“the East” has left its unmistakable prints
upon him. He spoke briefly, with humor-
ous anecdotes of his early struggles in Lon-
don, where, as he naively said, every leading
paper—except The Times —rejected his
efforts to write for them. When the old
Thunderer’s manager asked him to dinner
it was almost a catastrophe. “It would
be necessary, I remembered, to wear dress
clothes. At that moment I was living on
my dress clothes.” Doors had been tightly
shut before the guest began to give away
the secrets of China. When it was all over
the guests, wffio included the Consul for
Japan, went off laden with Nothing wrapped
up most delightfully.
The Naval and Military Sports for the
Veterans’ Home at La Perouse went with
a bang. A goodly crowd hurried out to the
Agricultural Ground, where half the com-
pany was in khaki. The sensational events
were the Roman Chariot Race (Marcus
Superbus Johnson beating Horatius Took
or Tuck with as fine a pair of racing bays
as ever Ben Hur didn’t see), the United
Service tug of war and the Gretna Green
events. The Officers’ Gretna chase was
in three heats, with much hurdle-jumping
in a dazzling sun and a consequent collision
or two. Lieut. Holland had a nasty fall,
but there w r as no need for a wild rush from
the P.M.0., who sat firm in the official stand.
A big artilleryman, one of the brides, was
the saucy “lady” wffio won the prize, a
bracelet, with the perspiring bridegroom,
Lieut. Kerr, thundering on the heels of the
“damsel’s” big black horse. A proud woman
was the hon. sec., Mrs. M. Rutter, who
mothers the old boys all the year round,
while the Hugh Dixsons stoke the cash-box
when it gets perilously empty. Commandant
George Lee and his pleasant wife —she’s on
the Vets.’ Home Council —w T ere in the crush.
Major Sherbon gave a helpful push to the
proceedings.
Umbrellas dripped near the sacred circle
where G.-G. Fairguson said a cheery word
to war-worn soldiers as they came forward
for their decorations in the Domain last
week. Some of these heroes, who had men-
tions for conspicuous bravery, were as ner-
vous as schoolgirls at their first break-up.
There’s a Colonial Auxiliary Forces Officers’
bauble. Major Chaseling and Captain G. A.
Ilolborrow got away with this reward.
Speech day at Sydney Grammar brought
Deputy Gov. Cullen, with General Finn at
his heels, up the cadet-lined steps to the
handing-out platform. Here Acting-Head-
master Lucas alluded to the M.C. recently
won by the slender, delicate-looking Head,
Sloman, now with the Artillery in France.
Terrific applause from squeaking forms bal-
lasted with small boys. Justice Street, as
usual, made a telling speech as he recalled
the lengthening war-list of 1470 old boys,
some of whom slept for ever under foreign
skies. One of the first to fall in action was
Lieut. W. M. Chisholm, of the Ist Lanca-
shires. Killed at Mons in August, 1914.
Dominie Giles was the polite person who
showed a herd of mothers and sisters into
their seats, with J. F. I.vdall as assistant
M.C.
Excellency Helen Ferguson spent part of
Saturday opening the Margaret Harris Hos-
pital just added to the Burnside Homes for
Orphans. No sham opening this ; there's a
gold key to show for it. The generous donor
has built and equipped the haven for sick
infants of the homes of which James Burns
is godpa. The G.-G. laid a foundation-stone
—of No. 0 home —and F. G. Sargood applied
the necessary formula to a bazaar for the
cause. Just beyond this clutch of homes are
open fields where in Spring the wattle-blos-
som challenges all Australia to produce more
gold tassels to the acre.
This week’s investiture at Admiralty
House was a surprise packet before the
event. The only “sure thing” was James
Burns, who was to come up for his K.C.M.G.
The North Shore Hospital has lately had
a fierce struggle wfith the quarterly bills.
Matron Goddard —a slender streak of
energy—therefore beamed when Saturday
broke without the rain that drenched last
year’s fete in the grounds. The Cullen lady
proclaimed the party w r ell and truly open,
and Randal Carey, a great worker for this
retreat, hinted at the something that must
be done to shift the hospital’s millstone of
£3OOO.
In this alert, smil-
ing face, as Judith
Fletcher’s camera
snapped it, you get
a good idea of the
lady who pours out
tea at the new Wesley
College. Mrs. Scott
Fletcher was one of
the best liked women
in Brisbane when
her favorite parson
was head of King’s
College. As the wife
of the Dominie in
charge noAvof Wesley,
she is going to reign
over the commis-
sariat department:
for to this keen
housemother falls,
by her own wish, the task most colleges
pass to a paid official. Having seen the
comforts designed to help the domestic staff
(I can guess she put her brains into the
labor-saving portion of this nest of pan-
tries), one can bear witness also to this:
you could eat out of the sink, usually a
more hazardous digression than dining off
the floor. The front of the stage, so to
speak, bears traces of the same hand. The
residential quarters and the students’ rooms
are more like a bit of old Oxford, modified
to meet Australian conditions, than any of
the surrounding buildings. The architect
may have had his own way some of the time.
You can guess by this little picture who
“greatly persuaded” the rest of the time.
The 2nd D.A.C. and 22nd Howitzer com-
mittee sat down to clean up its affairs at its
second annual meeting the other afternoon.
Hon. sec. Mrs. Ballantine signalled “all’s
well”-—with a credit of £5O in the bank, no
debts, 1600 men at the Front who are (I’m
touching wood) getting their, comforts regu-
larly, and a cupboard full of socks for the
War Chest. So the committee and co. feel
entitled to put their feet up, and will close
the rooms in Falmouth Chambers till 1918
blows in.
Pianist Godfrey Smith, now a lieutenant in
the R.F.A., has been wounded again, xms
is the second time he has had to be mended.
A very old lady did not long survive the
death of a devoted son. Mrs. Alfred
Broughton, who died at Ashfield last week,
could tell many interesting stories of earlier
Svdney. for she was a daughter of an old
Italian identity, the late Dr. Fattorim. In-
compatibility of temper” drove Alfred Delves
Broughton back to England, taking the
vounger children with him. The eldest bo.\
remained with his mother, and was later
the well-known E. C. V. Broughton, M.L.A.
A younger brother, in the Navy, has been
on duty in the North Sea since 1914.
The naval cadets from the Jervis Bay
College had a run round Sydney after their
final “pass.” In the New Year they’ll pack
flannels for service in the North Sea. Before
dispersing to their home States they spliced
the main brace —on ginger-pop, etc. —under
the wing of Frank Albert and his wife. They
still mourn their lad Otto. One of the Col-
lege’s brightest. students, he died after a
short tussle with the mystery illness, menin-
gitis.
When in Sydney
for the first time, long
years ago, Naval Sec-
retary Share assured
it that this seaport
had the prettiest
girl-garden' he’d ever
seen. And he’d at
least seen all the
world’s harbors.
After considering the
matter through his
pince-nez for 18 years
or so, he has chosen
a former Melbourne
lass. She is Alfreda,
elder daughter of
Admiral Bridges, who
has bunkers of cash.
Most of it came from
Australian wool by
marriage with a daughter of “Salmon”
Wilson, the man who did so much for Mel-
bourne ’Varsity.
Mr. Share, R.N., entered the navy as a
youngster on the paymaster’s staff. His
tact, ability and unlimited capacity for giv-
ing to Caesar and his wife the social homage
that w r as their exact due, caused him to be
a more or less perpetual secretary to Admi-
rals. Just now he is the confidential watch-
dog for Jellieoe. Nominally I think he has
been Fleet-Paymaster since he left the
Northcotes’ staff. But paymastering is
merely a sideline or figure of speech or some-
thing of the sort. He is really a naval
Wallington who learnt the profound bow
(which once made him the adored of Aus-
tralian duchesses) on the Royal Yacht.
Not in the breezy days of Edward, but
under the eye of her august majesty Vic-
toria, who knew to a boot-tag how a naval
cadet should appear in the Presence.
Perhaps Share was never happier than
when he was at Cranbrook, on the staff of
fine old sailor Rawson. The naval sec. was
deeply religious—like his chief. Darling
Point, sitting languidly to its prayers in
St. Mark’s, must have had an occasional
scramble for its hassocks when on odd Sun-
days the old Admiral’s stentorian tones
headed the responses, while the immaculate
secretary, pushing even the cushion aside,
solemnly unfolded a large hankie, placed
it between his marrow bones and the boards,
and chanted a rolling echo to his chief’s
double forte. Possibly the popular Share
left Australia without incurring the illwill
of even those once-determined Guv’ment
House visitors who used to wait on his
doormat and ask in tones of thunder why
Mr. and Mrs. and the Misses Corned Beef
had not been asked to his Ex.’s garden-
party.
Charles C. W. Bentley, son of E. W.
, Bentley, manager of the Commercial Bank
at Lismore, has fallen in France. He was
a grandson of that Bentley who was secre-
tary of the Union Club, Sydney, for many
years.
“Australia Jane’s” line from Bananaland :
The Goold-Adamses have leased Bruton, Stan-
thorpe, until April. His Ex. will drop into Bris-
bane once a fortnight to keep order at Executive
Council meetings.
Ex-Prime Minister Fisher’s old opponent, Arnold
AVienholt, who had the luck to escape after being
taken prisoner by the Hun in East Africa, writes
home in great spirits to say that he had just
returned from a little expedition with six of his
black scouts, and had destroyed a German post,
store and salt-making show. He was just then
trying to get the heads to agree to give him a
decent force of 100 rifles and a junior white officer
to worry the Germans out from his district.
Lieut. Ben Johnson, of the Bank of Australasia’s
Brisbane staff, who saw much heavy fighting last
year, was taken prisoner in April. His O.C. wrote
saying that the young officer could have made his
escape, but insisted on remaining with his men, who
had defended their machine-gun until overwhelming
numbers of the enemy arrived. Now news has been
received that Ben Johnson has escaped from a prison
camp at Stroehen, in Germany, and is in Lond
lie is an old Brisbane Grammar boy.
Brisbane’s pioneer aviator, Capt. Tom Macleod
of the Flying Corps, is still in hospital, and is
likely to stay there for a while. His sister Blaine 'is
V.A.D. in St. Dunstan’s Hospital for Blind Soldiers*
London. ’
Ruby Brabazon has accepted Bill, one of
the warlike Rudd family, of Rockhampton
(Q.). Bill, as you may guess, is a returned
sojer. He can’t go back owing to a sur«i-
cally-unfit arm, won in Gallipoli, but three
brothers are in khaki to do his share and
theirs. His best girl, Ruby, one of the
Brabazons of Winton, will kiss her only
brother Tony good bye early in 1918. lie’s
just 18. In the musty past there was a very
famous Brabazon, whose bones rest in Battle
Abbey.
A Sydneysider, now in the worst weather
poor old Blighty can produce, has taken a
diamond ring from Lieut. Eastwood, of the
R.F.C. She is Florence Bestic, who has
been some time on the other side.
You’ll remember Lieut. Dick Lloyd, who
once hailed the ’bus from Darling Point-road.
He was posted missing after one of the dar-
ing R.F.C. flutters over the enemy’s lines,
and word comes now that he was killed.
There was a new holland overall, piped
with red (to match the wearer’s Garibaldi
tie), in artist" Dattilo Rubbo’s studio the
other afternoon. Dattilo was the man in-
side the wrapper, and meekly wore it to
please the givers. These damsels, who say
good-bye to Rubbo and his art classes, with
light refreshments to break the parting, at
each Christmas, had a festive hour. They
enticed various visitors to pant up three
flights of stairs to assist at the rites. Miss
Blakemore (whose delicate miniatures set the
standard in Tech. College classes) and Mrs.
Rubbo were in the din. A caged death-
adder, with a tail like a button-hook, but
very dead, hangs in a glass case to warn
art students that they may meet worse things
than Crumple Horns when they go sketching,
From London I’m told that the absolute
last scream of feminine up-to-dateness is to
have the crest and motto of a regiment—
your husband’s, of course —embroidered on
your nightgown ; but “it is now possible to
obtain specially-worked detachable designs,
for use as occasion demands.” I’m sure I
don’t know what that means.
The Edith Cavell Memorial Association is
bringing out a 1918 calendar. The 1917
affair was well printed. But nearly every
page was burdened with the platitude of a
politician, and nobody wants to have the
stodgy opinion of Moses Moon, M.P., flung
in his eye every time he turns up a date.
The Joan of Arc committee hopes to give
every soldier’s youngster within its ken a
toy or book on Christmas Eve. Funds got
a big impetus from the matinee at the
Royal, in which Joan held the fort for
France. Mrs. George Sargent—“Godblesser.”
as Cyril Maude would say—lends her
grounds for the kiddies’ Christmas party.
The Munro Fergusons rest a while at the
old grey house on Ivirribilli, eat their
Christmas dinner here, and see the caber
tossed on New Year’s Day at the Hielan’
Sports. They’ll cross over the border to
Melbourne in January, then come back to
this city for the Easter bun. Alas, there'll
be no scarcity of Easter bun here. Only
on e-fifth of last season’s wheat has been
taken away; and Country Cousin, looking
at his ripening corn, doesn’t know what in
the world to do with it.
Don't put all your old papers on the pan-
try shelves. The Newspaper Depot (hon.
sec., Mrs. Elliott), 16 Carrington-street, col-
lects the wastage.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


/w
*
a
A
V>-
-*
•
»
£
m
m
%
FT M
V Jh
I^o7-
r£-5
'CLE
CYCLE-
t y
OR
™ AOnE OP
K 35» Mtß
£r GE AUERM. RUBBER GOODS
■ : I~5: ' r - -■-!
PI
‘
SOUH
- -• •• ■. -
#-p^
--
**#*
'-■ •_
■=**?
>
PftRAftUBBER\VORKS,
Vic.
-BARNET CLASS RUBBER CQ. Lli2.
OF THE RUBBEH INDUSTRY UV AUSTRALASIA,
MANUFACTURERS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION OF MOTOR MOTOR-
beltlng'and'all oomIst?c R ano mechanical rubber goods.
SYDNEY
MELBOURME-
ADELAIDE*
BRISBANE-
PERTH
LAUNCESTON*
HOBART
CHRIST CHURCH.N.Z-
W
->•••
; gg|j I
It
v •■••■•
-
S^/NPROO^
hoS>£
ZPB&
£R


ty&eefs
Purest and best of
Confectionery, fresh-
made daily by Miss
Daveney. Exclusive
to Farmer’s.
9 9
w
and
F U 3
Can
FUS
FU3. Pure Boiled Sweets,
deliciously flavored, in airtight
tins. PRICE 1/8
Highly recommended for the
Soldiers at the Front.
FU4 . Standard Chocolates,
assorted, in Brown Boxes.
PRICES: 2/6, 4/9, 10/6,
12/6.
FUS. Chocolate Breeze, a
crisp chocolate-covered Honey-
comb. PRICE 2/3
PU6 . Chocolates
Bon Bons, in
and Pink Boxes
Prices: 5/6
and
Blue
Pale
vt*?
FUG
f
MEkS
A
\Aelton.ian
/ ▼ \ HIGH-CLASS
|SPE£IALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
COOL
HOLIDAY
CLOTHES
FOR YOUR
XMAS VACATION.
IU
B2ol.—“Eureka” Cool
Summer Suits, in a choice
colorings, both light- and
dark greys from
Cloth
variety of
63|-
The fitting is really superb, and we
stock them in sizes to fit all figures.
WHEN ORDERING BY MAIL
Give height, chest and waist measure-
ments over vest.
Inter-State Customers who order by
Mail may do so with the full assur-
ance of satisfaction. We can do no
better than return your money if
you’re not satisfied —but you will be.
WRITE NOW.
MELBOURNE’S
PREMIER STORE.
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE-
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, December 17, 1917.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Jimmy Drummond Hay, the azure-blooded
young Englishman who abandoned his divi-
nity studies at St. John’s College, the Angli-
can curate factory at St. Kilda, in order
to join the A.1.F., is now in the Norwich
hospital with a broken jaw. He met with the
accident during his first effort over the top,
the bullet making two breaks before it got
clear. James reckons he is lucky, since his
wounds don’t mean crutch-drill, even though
he can’t eat much. According to this bat-
tered witness, nearly every motor-ambulance
in France is driven by a woman, while hun-
dreds of girls drive cars in connection with
the R.F.C. right up to the front line ; and,
even with these war-workers on the job,
“poor chaps who have been outed two or
three times, and have come back to be
patched up, are sent into action again, for
there are not enough reinforcements.” How-
ever, some of us who haven’t been to the
Front know better than that.
A grandson of the late Jimmy Munro,
Victoria’s boom Premier, has just been gassed
in France after a considerable number of
whacks at the enemy. Percy Balding he is,
a gunner. The late Robert Balding, house
agent, married a Munro daughter, and
Percy is the youngest lad.
Major Thomas Cherry, who has been in
charge of the special germ-hunting plant of
the Defence Department, and has of late
spent much energy in chasing imported
bacilli and putting salt on their tail, has
gone off to Egypt to continue the job there.
He will remain abroad until the war is over,
or until he becomes a casualty. The chief
hobbies of Mrs. Cherry, who stays behind to
keep her Professor’s library dusted, are Red
Crossing and garden-parties to bluejackets.
Walter Bassett, a Melbourne warrior who
did a bit in the Engineers and caught an
M.C.. is now taking a breath of air in an
English battleplane. The young man, who
has been gazetted Flight-Lieutenant, recently
jolted a couple of Huns off his beat in
Flanders. Tneir comrades had to collect
the funeral with a fork.
Recent visits of French reservists and
others have stirred up a local industry,
especially down Geelong way. Some war-
economists have been making pocket-money
bv collecting snails and sending them in at
Is. Bd. a box. D’you know, Australia used
to export snails! A Flinders-lane firm has
sent away many a hundred in pickle.
Lieut. Geoff. Moule, who is flying in Meso-
potamia, has scored a mention and a Mili-
tary Cross. The news may help to cheer
his parents, who lost the elder boy, Captain
Fred, a few months ago.
Geoffry Officer, after being listed as miss-
ing in April, is now officially reported killed
in action. He and two brothers gave up
their ostrich-farm at Kerang to go and do
their bit. One is wounded and a prisoner
with the Huns ; the third still fights on as
one of our thinned battalions.
There was a subdued little gathering in
the Toorak Anglican Church on Thursday
afternoon, at the unveiling of a window pre-
sented by the John Grice pair in memory
of their two soldier sons. Only relatives
and intimates were present, amongst them
several mothers whose own boys sleep under
wooden crosses on distant fields.
There has been a whiskers competition in
a Western District centre, run in conjunc-
tion with a war-fund shivoo. There were
over 200 exhibitors, and first prize was given
for length, density and texture. The winner
was a Goth with a thirteen-inch strand as
fine as spun silk. The first prize was a
razor!
“The Girls that Stayed at Home” packed
the Playhouse last Wednesday for the 15th
Infantry Comforts Fund. These skirted
entertainers have got their show up to pro-
fessional standard, helped greatly by ex-
Pierrot Maynard Dakin. But the Strolling
Players’ Orchestra strolled so aimlessly that
half of them were left in their bars long
after closing time, and the Anthem was sad
as well as solemn.
Mrs. Norman Raphael (the Marjorie
Ileinbockle whom Melbourne knew) is back
and staying at Menzies’. Her legal and
other worries do not seem to have had any
prejudicial effect upon Marjorie, who is
plumper than when we last saw her and
every bit as lively.
Captain Ryrie’s wife and her sister-in-law,
Mrs. Willie Davidson, are down from Bullen-
bong station, their N.S.W. home, looking for
sea breezes at St. Kilda. The captain is
away helping to keep the Hun from the sea
breezes of the Channel.
Mrs. Alec Hay, whose figure is like that of
a Watteau shepherdess, put in' a fleeting
visit to Melbourne last week. She was look-
ing for a suitable public-school for a growing
son. The BurdeKin women have the secret
of imperishable vouth. Unfortunately it’s
not a recipe one can give away to one s
friends or deliberately hide from one’s dear-
est enemies. Alec the amiable proudly squired
his lady.
The fellows in the Agricultural Depart-
ment have a nice sense of the fitness of
things. When wheat-inspector Alexander
Mathew subsided the other day from his job,
having reached the retiring age, the boys
accompanied their good wishes with a fare-
well gift of an easy-chair. Mathew, who is
a brother of bush-bred Presbyterian-parson
John Mathew, has been a long time with the
Department; but his early backblocking
experiences gave him a reserve which might
have carried him much farther as a useful
servant of the State. However, as the
office-boy must have his promotion, and as
money doesn’t matter, the three-scorers have
to go out, however hefty they may be.
Tiie Woman, founded by the A.W.N.L.
for the baiting and general discouragement
of the Socialistic tiger, has lost its editor,
Mrs. John Hope, who finds the political pace
too strong and has had to naek up and take
the track in search of good health. Mrs.
Hope used to be one of the League’s most
reliable after-tea speakers. She has a con-
siderable flow of neat language, and has
done her level best to prevail on the Tiger
to change his horrid spots. Mrs. Hope has
also taken a hand in chasing the white-
slaver ; and her advocacy of Thrift has often
been heard above the clash of teacups.
The Toorak Campbells have suffered their
fourth bereavement this year. Elder daughter
Alice died last week, after a short illness.
A few months back the head of the house,
a leading squatter and business man, died
suddenly, after losing his two fine soldier
sons. Alice Campbell was one of the best-
liked girls in Toorak, where she is mourned
for whole-heartedly.
Miss Adelaide’s gossip :
The week has been mostly a jumble of intercol-
lege cricket, school break-ups and patriotic enter-
tainments. The Governor put in a good deal of
time at the cricket. St. Peter’s won again at last.
His Ex. was also at the St. Peter’s and Prince
Alfred speech-days. Eloquent Lady Galway pre-
sented the prizes at the Methodist Ladies’ College,
and gave some invaluable tips to the young ladies
about the worth of work.
At Mount Lofty on Saturday, within James
Marshall’s garden, one of the Mount’s show spots, a
f6te brought a welcome sum to Red Cross and
Trench Comforts Funds. For the benefit of the Red
Cross, also, Miss Farnie Thomas lias arranged an
exhibition of about 150 water-color sketches of
Australian and Maoriland scenery, marked at low
prices. Lady Galway opened this fine show on
Wednesday. The Trench Comforts Fund is to benefit
by the sale of a copy of John Collier’s “Priestess of
Delphi,” on which Miss Florence Britten (Mrs.
Horace Mumme) is now working. She made a study
of copying when she was in Europe some years ago,
and her copy of Murillo’s “Drinking Boy” was bought
for our own Art Gallery.
The Adelaide Orchestra gave its final concert for
the season in the Queen’s Hall on Saturday night.
Arrangements for the 1918 season are already under
way—three concerts in aid of the Red- Cross.
The Broughams, who have been in the West Dar-
ling district for over 40 years, have s"old Poolamacca
Station, near Broken Hill, and will probably make
their home in Adelaide.
The Billjims who passed through here on their way
back from the Front at the beginning of the week
were picnicked by Belair residents on Wednesday.
A special train ran them from Port Adelaide to the
hills, and they were motored from the Belair station
to National Park, where the proper thing was done
for them.
The widow of the late C. C. Kingston, who has
lived at Marino since her husband’s death, and is in
constant conflict with the local rate-collector, was at
court the other day, when the Brighton corporation
wanted to know why she hadn’t paid her rates. Her
argument was that she is over-assessed, and she
would rather go to prison than pay. Of course, the
account was squared. Mrs. Kingston has been urged
repeatedly to put her affairs in the hands of a man-
ager, but it’s a suggestion she receives with unvarying
scorn.
News has come of the death in action of Major
R, D. Ryder, here as A.D.C. during Governor Le
Ilunte’s regime. He married the C. H. Angases’ only
daughter. When the war-cloud burst Major Ryder
was with his regiment in India. He was ordered
almost immediately to the Front, and was in the
thick of fire and smoke of battle since the autumn of
1914. His wife and two children are in England.
This is the third casualty amongst men who have
been recently here as aides. The other two were
Captain Wright, killed in the early days of the war,
and Captain Hop wood, missing. A fourth, Captain
Fletcher, has been interned in Holland since the
Amsterdam expedition.
A. number of keen musicians are forming a new
musical assoc, and talk of calling it “The Non-
conformist Choir.” In this free country there is
nothing in the religious way to conform to or dis-
sent from ; so Adelaide ought easily to find another
and better name for its singers.
Bishop Cecil Wilson, once of Melanesia and a
Kent County cricketer before that, has had six years
in the quiet suburban Adelaide parish of Walker-
ville, and has quite thrown off the ill-health which
took him there. New he moves on to do some more
bishoping in Bunbury (Westralia). At the regretful
farewells which Adelaide has been giving him, the
hope was expressed that he will come back some
day as Bishop of Adelaide. He is immensely popu-
lar; in fact, but for the detail of having a pretty
wife and a large young family, quite the athletic
bishop of romantic fiction.
News comes through from London of the
engagement of Geoffrey Grice to Muriel
Atherton. Geoff is one of the Jim Grices, ot
Frankston way. Muriel owns two good-
lookers as sisters in Olive, now Mrs. Doctor
Osborne, of Sydney, and Mollie, now Mrs.
White, whose husband died on active service.
Cairns, youngest of the S. 11. Officer clan,
just back from 12 months’ munitioning
in England, will be made one with Louise
Sexton, of Adelaide, early in the New Yeai.
The ceremony will happen in Tasmania, at
the house of Auntie Onslow, who will hostess
the cake-cutting rejoicings. Relatives ot
the pair have been frantically elbowing a
crush of holiday trippers at the steamei
offices.
Newly-fledged Anglican-parson John
Brown is booked to say “What ho!” at the
altar to Jessie Ross, who belongs to an old
Christmas Hills family with a sound pio-
neering foundation. The Ross eyrie is on
a lofty range overlooking the beautiful Yarra
flats, where the Reverend John has _ been
soul-snatching for some time, in the inter-
vals of his divinity-studies. Barrister Max-
well, M.H.R., married one of the Ross girls
quite a long time ago, in the days when he
liked to refer to himself as “a memberr of
the Juniorrr Barrrr”; and Mrs. Campbell
Jones, of Sydney, is another of the clan.
Melba has had a peck of trouble in
America. First of all, the scenery from the
roof fell on the star as she was singing
Marguerite in the Vision Scene of “Faust. ’
She was unconscious for a quarter of an
hour. Her left leg was lacerated and left
wrist broken. Her arm is still in splints,
but the indomitable woman has not missed a
performance ! Whilst driving to a dinner in
St. Louis a motor crashed into the party ,
the car luckily did not capsize, but the
chauffeur of the other car had three ribs and
both legs broken. Then, again, when she
was nearing Dayton, the boiler of the loco,
burst and tore up the line and bumped the
passengers. Once more, when on another
rail journey, her private car broke away
from the train outside Chicago, with hun-
dreds of trains passing. The brakesman
jumped out and held a red lamp before the
derelict car till assistance came. It’s rough
on Nellie, but it means a holiday for her
press agent. The tour is being enormously
successful both financially _ and artistically >
Frank St. Leger is the pianist of the co., and
some of his songs are listed on the pro-,
grammes. Arthur Hackett, an American
tenor, has been singing, and de Bourguignon.
the Belgian pianist who was formerly in
Australia, has a steady job. Melba has had
a few yarns with Sarah Bernhardt.
A feature of Evelyn Scotney's penultimate
concert was “Summer time,” a sweetly-soul-
ful ditty by young local composer Clif
Boanas, who finds time to write the words
and music of songs in the intervals of man-
aging a typewriter}’.
Margherita Valdi, the Australian soprano
who earns a crust at the Nice Opera House,
in the French Riviera, helped to welcome
the British and French troops by singing
to them at the Scala, Milan. Valdi used to
be Margaret James, daughter of Lewis
James, of the Geelong ’Tiser. Now in pri-
vate life she is Mrs. Harold Mellor. She
was in Melbourne last year, and sang now
and then for patriotic funds; but her best
work was done for the orphans of France,
in collections of cash and small-size frocks,
coats and pants. In her appearances here
the singer affected a simple, early-Victorian
style; but there was nothing early-Victorian
about her voice.
Olive Thompson-Cook, a Melba pupil who
is after a scholarship, has gone back to
Westralia to her lately-attached husband.
Olive is the handsome girl who made a hit
in Greek opera while Melba was in Mel-
bourne. She has been trying her hand at
composition, and is publishing an Anzac song
and a little waltz with a catchy melody.
Austral-Italian soprano Elsie Davies has
gone to Maoriland for a short tour. She
is booked to begin with “The Messiah” in
Wellington, backed by the local Choral
Society.
Mrs. Allan Frediswyde Hunter-Watts-
Wilkie will not be her husband’s leading
lady when his company opens at the
Princess’s at Christmas. Fredetc. is leaving
oil a visit to relatives in the U.S.A. bv the
same boat (if I told you its name the Censor
would advertise my age or do
awful) that bears I reda Sternberg f roni
these shores.
Zoe Itotliwell, daughter of Rothwell
j s on ’(jhange, has come out wit}l age • °
original postcards. She has copyrighted her
Cupid soldiers, and they are sellim* like m.,n
ex t rac t in Palestine. * *
„ , .
Aitist Harley Griffiths blew into Mel-#
bourne last week from Maoriland and junc-
tioned with Norman Lindsay at Creswick
where Norffian was visiting the old home’
Harley returns to M.L. via Sydney,
At a recent official affair at which the
soldiers were expected to wear all their
decorations. General Legge showed an hn-
posing stretch of ribbons running across his
chest. He confides that women always pick
out the prettiest ribbon as a sign of the
gieatest lionoi. One lovely scarlet-and-white
patches for comnion use “the Order of Ran
Leno. It is the Order of Danilo—a Monte-
Regrin decoration which entitles its wearer
( amon g other privileges) to travel all over
t j le ra ij ways G f Montenegro. “Not much use
now> »> sa y S tj ie General tersely. “There are
on jy about 20 miles of railway in the whole
coun t r y. and the Austrians are using them at
present.”
Yours sincerely
U ncerely
JOHANNA.


ISk
Liiii.
* V JW*
I
i
*4rG*K"*iA
rt<
Wum!
m
lllliifii illll Umm MV
BTi/iiiiliiiiiiMiiuiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiinuiiimiim'iiimmiinnumiiinminiiiiiiiimiii
■V'
i
W
i
*
i
r
1
/•r
%
I A
m
m
~SK.
3
mm
T** l
WmM lira!
«
■|w!HhMM|
• ' •' /W.-y‘A
■>•'») Yi
\\ v.‘
:iM<*
'
£
:
9J..S
il
i!
4%
%-
i
S«S
’j,;.
- c /
ndl
/
ggi
%
3
ZS^rZ
Jj§fc
!■
-H/.'/TO
■V;9
p»®W^
m\imm |
1 iihMii//i /v,■*«//#// /, *\V- *
V.-Wv,
i
>.\'i
»4«/
ilk fei^?
.3
I
.‘AV///,.
§
i»
»
'r/ '■ <:'
A
& m
r/i.
VV:
i
m
hi
" .X \W
:v, Si-;
fru
E
Aw
miIiimUIMIIIIIIIIDIIIHIIIimiIIIIIIItMII^PS^
i'n , iij , .‘.^itM*.'.‘^i^[V. t Vt‘. , . , rn‘.‘:".'““‘fflfr ,B r.n
«l
LMIWi
Hj
unUiUiwnnuiiiuniHuiMiinnnniinii
Witt
*0
DEW
3
f<'«
if
mil
N v\vll/
.SJ
IBP®
n, 9 , m and desirability always go hand in hand, for without charm nothing is desirable. Dewar's is a fountain
f fascinat.on-.ts triumphant quality persistently pleases but never palls. The matured merits of us
magnificent mellowness may be enjoyed year in and year out with never a trace of tiredness of taste.


THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1863.
WILLIAM
Hon. Sir ALBERT J. GOULD, K.B.
lion. THOS. WADDELL, M.L.C.
Auditors: JOHN WAUGH, T. B. FRITH.
Chief Inspector: WM. CLARKE.
Accountant: J. E. MACKINTOSH.
DIXSON, Chairman.
A. A. C. COCKS. M.L.A
11. C. L. ANDERSON, M.A.
Acting General Manager: J. s. MARKS
Secretary: R. T. MOODIE.
Solicitors : Messrs. LEIBIUS, BLACK & WAY.
HEAD OFFICE: 166 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Branches and Agencies in New South Wales. Agents in New Zealand and Fiii- u ■ .
Zealand: Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia: The National Bank- Vf of T N , ew
Queensland: The Queensland National Bank, Ltd. 6 atlonal Bank Australasia Ltd.;
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Drafts drawn on and cable remittances made direct to Foreign Places Letter* nf rwu* ■
negotiable throughout the world. Foreign Bills negotiated and collected. Drafts i*Sed on % ’
Francisco and New York in dollars or sterling. osuea on San
King George IV
AUI m WHISKY
(Hs
the TOP_NOTCH "scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“CARS AT ELEVEN.”
“Me and the missus is askin’ a few fren’s round this evening. Will you come? Never
mind bout dollin’ up. Jes' as y ’ are will do.”
Damper B II : I have had Barcoo rot in
the Transvaal, Egypt and three Australian States.
Cause, exposure to hot sun, flies and dust. In South
Africa it is known as veldt sores; in Egypt, septic
trouble. Bad food and scarcity of washing water
aie contributing factors, but do not necessarily cause
the disease. The South African cure is to soak the
affected part in hot, soapy water, thoroughly
cleanse and then touch the sores with lunar caustic
(nitrate of silver) ; apply any old ointment, and vou
will be surprised how rapidly they will heal. Barcoo
spew seems confined, in my experience, to inland
Australia, and is prevalent after heavy summer rain,
when green grass and a plague of small black flies
make their appearance. It seems to be an Outback
luxury and to avoid the coast. The flies at Jervis
Bay some four years ago, during the visit of the
whaling fleet, had Queensland and Egypt beat in size
and numbers ; but we never had Barcoo spew. Any
medicine that settles the stomach is good after the
spasms are over, particularly if it has a grip, aid
in this respect the old bush panacea, painkiller, is
not to be sneezed at.
* * *
‘\Mulga Bill, M.D.”: Having put in a
round dozen years in the “Upper Barcoo, where the
churches are few and the means of religion are
scanty,’’ I should know a bit about rot and
spew. The spew is prevalent onlv during fly
season, and chiefly when the flies are “sticky.” They
cling on to the corners of your eyes, and if they
kick you hard, or if you are too lazy to knock the
vermin off, you soon get “bung eve,” which if neg-
lected will soon get you a bad close of sandy-blight
or cattle-blight, leading on to granulation. These
“sticky” flies waltz slowly around the angle of your
mouth and nostrils just when you are about to have
a feed. Suddenly a nausea develops and presently
the emetic centre gets a move on. You make a
rush for the open. You then feel right again, and
return to the banquet, and probably do a good feed.
Should you feel a bit squeamish, take a whisky and
bitters, or, if of water-cart proclivities, a teaspoon-
ful of Worcester sauce will warm up your epigas-
trium. Little Mary won't trouble you any more for
that day. Should you be suffering from atony of
the stomach, the local sawbones will soon fix you
with a bismuth and soda, prussic acid and capsicum
mixture, to be well shaken before taken, and he’ll
charge you only a guinea. A good fancy name or
scientific cognomen for the spew is Emesis Barcoo-
ensis; but don't use the moniker to Billjim or he
will probably think it is all up with him Now
about the rot. This is chiefly found in camps of
tank-sinkers and fencers. They work with bare arms
under a fierce sun, and as a rule live on salt-junk
tea and damper. The succulent vegetable is a blank
The skin on the extensor surfaces of the forearms gets
thin and glazed, and on a slight scratch occurring
the wound festers and rapidly spreads and develops
into an open sore, with pus and acrid discharge
which is highly infective—in fact, you have a sore
\Mth a mixed infection of cocci and steptococci, and
if the gentle fly gets a chance he will inoculate eyes
or any other spot where the epidermis is broken or
weak, and give you a Sheol of a holiday. With a
change of diet, plenty fresh vegetables, vegetable
soup and fruit, with fresh meat in place of salt-
junk, the hyper-aciditv of the secretions and blood
is soon reduced. An antiseptic wash to bathe the sores
and an antiseptic ointment will soon heal up and
destroy the microbes. I am inclined to think the
cause of the infection may be of a mycotic origin.
A SUGGESTION TO THE MILITARY.
BILL: “Hear young Bill Jumbuck’s been re-
ported ‘missing.’”
JIM: “I'his ’ere missin’ business makes me
tired. Why th ’ ’ell don’t they send over
a few blaektrackers an’ boundary riders!
They'd dam' soon find out what became
of ’em.”
A good name for the affection would be Mycosis
Cutis Barcooensis. Billjim usually cures it himself
with carbolic soap externally and rum, whisky and
beer internally.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE MUCKLEBRAEANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McPheerson came from Mucklebrae
Long, weary whiles ago—-
In Scotland, somewhere, far away,
If you should want to know.
His pants were patched about the knees,
His beard was reddish grey ;
But you’ll remember, if you please,
He came from Mucklebrae.
He couldn't keep his farm-hands, so
McPheerson made a plan:
He wrote the Government Bureau
To send him out a man.
The Bureau Agent, for his sins,
Had “travelled,” once, Outback;
And so he “had his glimmerins’,”
And sent along a Mac.
The homestead lay ’twixt Gundagai
And where the wombats oam.
McPheerson drove from Blankydrai,
To fetch the new man home.
The train drew up to Evatt's Gap,
A siding on the plain,
And dropped a small man in a cap,
And ambled on again.
A small man with a “muekle kist”
They’d trundled from the van.
“Are ye the man?” McPheerson hissed.
He answered, “I’m the man.”
IVhat is yeer name?” McPheerson speered—
TVi’ caution, understand.
“McDonald! An’ I am not feared
To say it!” said the “hand.”
“Where cam’ ye from?” McPheerson said.
The man said: “Mucklebrae.”
McPheerson stared, and scratched his head—
“Ye’ll come across the way!”
“Across-the-way” was Ryan’s pub,
With Wilson’s store hard by;
And all outsi le was plain and scrub
And roads to Blankydrai.
QUITE SAFE.
CUSTOMER: “Look here. I hope you won't
snip my ear like the last fellow did.”
BARBER: “Oh, that wouldn’t matter, sir.
All scissors and things are sterilised in
this shop.”
They took the carrier, Mcßride
He’d only have one more.
A yearling on the married side,
He’d stayed the night before.
He stretched himself and shook his head
And belted up his waist.
McPheerson to the new man said: .
“Ye’ 11 ha’ another taste.”
The hour went past and home was far;
But neither minded that,
While in the room behind the bar
The Mucklebraeans sat.
And “Did ye ken?” and “Did ye ken?”
They heard McPheerson say—
’Twas very plain his heart was then
Far back in Mucklebrae.
McPheerson’s English grew less plain,
To tell the simple truth;
For, as old foreigners regain
The language of their youth
Or I might pick up word and phrase
From my past, growing dim,
The dialect of his young days,
Full-kilted, came to him.
“An’ leevin’ yet!” “An’ deid langsyne!”—
You'd think ’twould never end!
The more McPheerson ea’ed to min’,
The more the nev-chum kenned.
He knew the fancies and the fads,
And all the children, too,
Of half the lasses and the lads
That once McPheerson knew.
“The night's a bairn!” McPheerson cried;
“There’ll be no need for haste;
I sent veer box on with Mcßride —
Ye’ll ha’ anither taste.
So auld McCausland’s leevin’ yet
And drams the winter through?”
The rev man had another wet;
McPheerson had one too.
Now, Ryan, dealing with a Scot,
Had more than once been stung;
He said: “Sit up art night Oi’ll not,
For all the Scots unhung!”
McPheerson said “Ye’re but a wean
That learned the world too 500 n....
Ye ken ‘The Wearin’ o’ the Green’
Is an auld Scottish tune!”
About the row at Ryan’s pub
I find I'm not so clear.
(The new man told me, cuttin’ scrub,
It ended up in beer —
As rows at Ryan’s pub will end.)
But twelve o’clock had gone,
McPheerson said: “Aweel, ma friend,
We'd best be getting on.”
“What hae ye got? For to be plain,
I'll say it to ma shame,
I only haud enough for ane —
We'll take tua bottles hame.”
They took two bottles in the straw
And one “wee flask” as well;
But how McPheerson’s place they saw
Is more than I can tell.
’Twas Peter —Mac’s old wall-eyed hor-e—■
That drew the heavy load.
And it was at a watercourse
He spilled them in the road.
McPheerson sprawled in sinful pride,
The new man set things right.
“But now ve’re doon,” McPheerson cried.
“We’d better bide the night.”
They seemed to sober rp in haste
About the homestead gate;
McPheerson sighed: “Ye’ll ha’ a taste—
It must be gettin’ late.”
A friendly sheep-dog, blaek-and-tan,
Came down, inquiring who;
He sniffed McPheerson, and the man,
And stayed to help them throe; h.
McPheerson said: “I see no light.
The goodwife’s gone to bed.
Ye’ll tak’ the harness-room to-night
An’ I’ll sleep in the shed.
Lord knows how long she waited up—-
We daurna wake her now.
Bi t, mon ! ye had yeer bite an’ sup
At Ryan’s, onvhow.”
They planted the full bottle where
A shed loomed in the gloom;
They took old Peter out with care
And sought a skillion room.
“Noo, there’s yeer bunk,” McPheerson said —
“I’ll leave one on the shelt.”
And then he went into the shed,
And had a nip himself.
And later, somewhere in the straw,
The new man heard him croon:
“The cock sal craw, the day sal draw—
Noo, bairnies, eoodle doon!”
And then he “got the wordies right,”
And then he got the tune:
“Noo, bairnies, eoodle doon the night;
Noo, bairnies, eoodle doon!”
The new man woke at break of day—
And, oh, his head was sore!
The false awakening, and grey,
That scorns the Night before.
The room seemed going, pitch and toss,
To match his heaving brains ;
He rose and blinked his first across
The Riverina plains.
He sought the cowyard and he found
McPheerson at the bail;
McPheerson told him, turning round,
“Ye’ll get another pail.
T e 11 find it on the kitchen stoop ;
An’ outside, on a stool,
Anint the tank beside the coop,
There’s dish an’ soap an’ too’l.”
Go cannily, ma new-found son,
Gang saft, upon yeer life!
For, till we get the milkin’ done,
We mauna v.-ak’ the wife.
She’ll be an angry wife indeed—
We’ve got no time to waste.
(The whisky’s in old Peter’s feed—
Ye’d better ha’ a taste!”)
Tell ha a taste?’’ McPheerson savs,
At Ryan’s pub to-day;
And it s the son-in-law who pavs—
The man from Mucklebrae.
Tell ha’ a taste?” The old man squints
Along the bottled shelf,
A cautious Scot who never hints
That he’ll have one himself.
K.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Greet Xmas the New Year
in a “Murdoch Panama.
««
#
ALL
PANAMAS
POST
FREE.
There’ll be hot days a-plenty before
1918 gets well on the way, and you’ll
need a cool, comfortable, shady
Panama. Murdoch’s offer you Genuine
South American Panamas —the best
values under the sun. Prove it your-
self —cal) or send your order to
Desk It.
Smart Stylish
Panamas.
Cool hats for Summer days—
2\ , 2\ and 2\ inch brims.
1216.
Murdoch’s Guinea
Panamas.
Remarkable values —strong and
serviceable — 2J, 2f, 3 and
31 inch brims.
21/-
Superior Quality
Panamas.
High-grade hats for smart
dressers. In popular brim
widths — 2\ and 2* inch brims,
2 51-
Riir'
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
Complete Outfitters
for Men l3ot/s
Hillicrs
Chocolates
The Ever-welcome
Christmas Present.
.. Packed in boxes, 3/-, 5/-, 6/6, 10/6,
15/- and 25/-
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Mailed to you on the day they are
made.
ERNES 1 HILLIER,
162 Pitt Street, Sydney,
fi*
:' '
wm
■ ;v.
.
‘ I'm Lucky !
Leviathan
TAILORING
»
'
ASK FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOG.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
MELBOURNE.
is decidedly of the better
class.
Never do we send out
a suit without first being
sure that it possesses
Correct Cut, Perfect Fit,
and superior Workman-
ship. And this shall con-
tinue to be the policy of
our Great Tailoring
House.
Leviathan Suits are
cut by the highest-
salaried Cutters ever en-
gaged by any house, and
are tailored throughout
b y carefully-t rained
workers who have had
many years’ experience
in the best-class trade.
Write for Free
Patterns of
New Season s
Suitings
65/- 75/- 84/-
90/- to 147/-
TOGETHER WITH TAPE AND
HOME-MEASUREMENT CHART.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-cach
N.Z. from 3/6
BRITISH-MADE
12=INCH
double-sided
from
5/-e&ch
N.Z. from 5/6.
Some of This Month’s NEW COLUMBIA RECORDS
All at Pre-War-Prices.
Ask for No. 30 Supplement.
12-INCH SINGLE-SIDED, 7/6.
/T , , Clara Butt & Chorus
7146 —The Palms (_Faure)_ (Key A Bat) « rM ,„dior Guards.
WBhKegimentalBand' of H.M. Grenadier Guards.
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 6/-
LI 130
{ I Hear You
j The Devout
Calling Me (Marshall)
Dover (M. Y. White).
Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
Hubert Eisdell. tenor.
LX 133
\ Trio, No. 8 in
{ Scherzo, from
r r mt (Beethoven) Trio, Sammons, Squire, Murdoch.
lilt V OnnimAnQ Snnirp Mil vdooll.
Trio, in
' Sammons, Squ
1.1062
\ Romeo anil Juliet: “O Nightofthe Church . . <G °Bizet)'.
1 Ca iV"e e ts : b?nos(na t Buck man & Maurice D'Oisly. sung in English, with Orch.
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 4/3.
D 1358
( Red Devon by the Sea (Clarke)
| My Message (Guy (l'Hardelot).
Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
D 1354
’Cello solo. W. H. Squire.
’Cello solo, W. H. Squire.
Larghetto (Handel). Arr. by W. H. Squire
Harlequinade (W. H. Squire)
74019 —Lucia Di
12-INCH SINGLE-SIDED,
Laminermoot: “Ilegnava nel silenzio”
In Italian.
15/-
(Silence O’er All) (Donizetti).
Maria Barrientos, soprano.
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 5/-
( The French Army on the Marne (Balay) Itenuhlicaine Band!
640 i coauet March (Bourgeois) ; Voca? Gem Company.
042 —Popular Songs Tour Troubles.’’ “Broken Doll,” “When
fiU
j r . (D “'” vsk,) -' «« SBKS: SSSK
{ Queen of Roses (JGnnerj
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 3/-
2746
j Sing, Sing,
J Fancy You
Why Shouldn’t We Sing? (Weston
Fancying Me
Lee) Unity Quartette
Unity Quartette
2750
Arizona (Heard & Gideon)
Why
uartette.
er-tenor.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SVDNET N.S.W.— Grafonola, Ltd., DakingHouse, Rawson riaoe
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wcrthelm Ptj ~
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
urtsbANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
ii’ci, t\ vn vtt —Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Wefoley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —W ebley Sons & Gofton, Ltd
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Martin's Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemi- t, Southampton.—Advt.
MEGGITT’S
UNSEED OIIMEAI
m
AEG
PAR
V"
Is
V'r
N
1
Wi
s* f
to?
MEGGITT’S
INSEED
OIL MEAL
IS essential in the Feeding of
Horses, Cows, Calves,
Pigs, Sheep and Poultry.
“i«u o em‘ > oT„n , ;L 1 r ,ei ''~ the mos * va,u “ b,e ™"-
material* f UI> , tlSSue ’ as well a * furnishing the
eonvertible*into *
Pamphlet instructing how to feed mailed free.
Adelaide; Co.'T'td 1 la * 8 - f £ 0m * 8 ' antB : Clarkson Ltd.,
Ltd., Melbourne; Wm. Adams Harrison Ramsay Pty.
U “~~" .«. , N«-rf?SSsr*&4 , !rSi
y
*
mlggitt ltd.,
Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers,
26 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“F.Y.7”: “Galenon” (B. 29/11/'l7) asks
(1) if anyone has had Barcoo rot on decent tucker
or Barcoo spew except when flies were bad, (2) geo-
graphical limits of these diseases, (3) a sudden-
death cure for them. Answers: (1) The rot afflicted
my household on Northampton Downs, Barcoo River,
in the ’Bo‘s, though we had the best of food, includ-
ing fruit and vegetables. I have seen Barcoo spew
onlj in hot summer-time, when all the flies wore out
of Hell. (2) Almost anywhere in the West. (3)
Sudden evacuation of the stomach brings a cure—till
next meal-time. The quaintest feature of the spew
is the spontaneous fashion in which a whole party
will decide to follow suit on seeing one of the
number afflicted. All hands may be well and happy
one moment and quite otherwise the next.
* * * *
“S. S. Severn” : The suppression of pourri-
pourri or sorcery in Papua costs the Commonwealth
about £20,000 a year. Yet evileye and witchcraft
is still running riot in parts of England. Yes,
little, cut-and-dried England! Six months ago, in
Cornwall, in a lovely old country lane, I met an
old woman carrying a child wrapped in a shawl. I
asked if it were ill. She said it had been “ill-
wished”—that the child’s father had married another
woman; and when his child was nine months old the
tertium quid came on a day’s visit to the village,
and, meeting the babe and its mother near a crooked
elm, “ill-wished it.” Thence it began to fade;
and now, a month later, it was a little whimpering
skin-and-bone. I asked could they not get the spell
broken. She said that she was then on her way to
see the rector, who had been away and had just
returned. I met the rector, a Cornishman, a few
days later, and spoke about the child. He was
quite serious about it—said he had sprinkled it with
consecrated water and spoken a prayer, and now it
would be all right. It was. I met the old woman
with it a month later, and the wee thing was
beginning to walk, and had become a normal babe
again,
* * * *
“Captain”: The District Officer was try-
ing a New Guinea native named Nandy for assault-
ing a black brother. Karboo, a witness for the pro-
secution, proceeded to describe the happening, but
getting hopelessly boxed up the D.O. called his per-
sonal boy, Gungu, and explained that he was to
stand perfectly still whilst Karboo showed how
Nandy had handled the prosecutor. With a curt
“Me savvy, boss,” and a gleam in his eye
Gungu took up a position in front of Karboo,
who immediately sprang at him with out-
stretched arms to grab him by the throat. He
never reached his objective, stopping full on the nose
a lovely right with all Gungu’s 12st. behind it.
Then followed a glorious mix-up of struggling',
sweating, cursing nigger—prisoner, prosecutor and
witnesses joining in with hands and feet. At his
table, calmly surveying the scene, sat the D.O..wait-
ing for the strife to peter out, and enjoying himself
more than if he’d been at a Stadium try-out. Only
after things had worked to a standstill did he learn
that Karboo and Gungu were sworn enemies who'd
been looking for one another “two fella moon he go
finish.”
“Bill R.”: Can the male birds be selected
from a brood of young maggies ? Easily. With-
hold inspection till they are out of the eggs. Then
the fledglings with rounded heads are the cock-birds
and those with flatted eraniums are the hens.
* * * *
“Xama Xuela” : The abos. of Papua know
a lot about signalling or the business of circulating
news. I don't know what the system is, although I
have frequently tried to find out. They send
information over short distances by* means of chants,
fitting their nightly sing-sing to the latest gossip.
But this could hardly explain their communication
over long distances. About 9 a.m. one day a youth
of a neighboring tribe came to me in a great state
of perturbation and informed me that a German
ship was coming. I was a bit puzzled, but took the
necessary precautions, and later in the day there
turned up a British oil tank-steamer on her way
south from Borneo. The ship had a yellow funnel,
hence the boy's mistake —all the N.D.L. steamers
had their funnels painted that color. The skipper
asserted that he was fully 80 miles up the coast that
morning at 9 o’clock. On another occasion the boys
told me that the Emden had been sunk by “fight
ship belong English,” although I did not get the
THE GIRLS DON’T WASTE SO MUCH TIME NOW.
“I do think this war is dreadful, but, thank goodness, it does some good."
“Indeed! What’s that?"
“You don’t find the married men trying to pass themselves off as single."
news myself until a day later by vvureless from
Moresby. The only way they could have heard
about that was by having the news passed up from
Dutch New Guinea.
A PATRIOT.
PHILANTHROPIST: “My poor man, wliat has brought you to this pass?"
FOWL HOUSE DAN: “ Refusin’ ter stand fer Parliment, sir. I choose ter be honest, an’
beg from door to door."
“Try Fluke”: You won't find Tangata
Maori speaking disrespectfully or flippantly of the
rum, otherwise the morepork. The belief is still
strong that the bush-owl is a uairua, a spirit, or an
atuh, the embodiment of some one or other of
M.L.’s forest deities. In Taranaki they say he has
a hundred eyes, and if any crime is committed in
the bush he is off to inform the tribe. Also, he is a
kind of banshee. His coming, under certain cir-
cumstances, indicates that you are a gone coon.
Again, a ruru flying across the track ahead is a
distinct warning that danger lies before you. I
know people of Taranaki who have turned back
immediately an owl flew out before them on a bush
road. Nothing would induce them to go on after so
unmistakable a warning from the ghost world.
“E.S.S. : Re the use of the sac, or pouch,
under the throat of the frigate-bird (B. 22/11/’l7).
According to Stanley s “Birds,” the pouch communi-
cates with the lungs, and with the hollow bone-work
of the skeleton, and wdien filled with air enables the
bird to float “in the air, and even sleep, without risk
of falling.” When the bird fills the bag with air.
“and from thence forces it into all its bones and
cavities between the flesh and the skin, the heat of
its circulation will rarefy the internal air, which will
therefore puff up not only the pouch, but every
cavity, and thus give the bird a surprising additional
buoyancy or power of floating even in the higher
regions of the atmosphere When the lower
cuirents of air are stormy and disagreeable, up goes
the frigate-bird to a higher and calmer current,
wdiere it remains, suspended with outstretched wings,
motionless and at rest, till, roused by hunger, “it
expels the rarefied air, and, emptying its pouch
heads for Fishville.”
* * *■ *
“Clodwalloper”: It is a good thing that
prayers for rain aren’t always answered. The pre-
sent and the previous moist springs have brought us
I ictorians at least three plant diseases peculiar to
damper countries—lrish-blight, black-spot and downy
mildew. They sound like political afflictions, but in
reality they ai'e pests fatal to spuds, pears and vines
respectively.
* * * *
T) ke . A recent Abo.-writer remarked
that, in foggy weather some bird or other is able to
throw its voice, like a ventriloquist. It’s the fo"
that does it, not the bird. All vibrations or waves
carry better in fog. A wireless wave received from
a station 200 miles distant in thick fog would be as
strong as signals from a station abeam under ordi-
nary conditions. The varying densitv of the fo"--
banks causes the ventriloquial effect.
“W.A.L.” : Does this beat anything in the
big-horse-team argument—. 36, lugging a splinter of
wood up William-street, Sydney?
“Splodge”: Who says the Rhodes Scholar-
ships should not be extended to the Papuan native?
My chef had his early schooling at the mission, and
being a bright youth runs his kitchen in a business-
like way. To keep a daily check on the utensils and
eating weapons under his care he has listed his stock-
in-trade, with the aid of a sheet of foolscap and the
stub of a pencil, and heads it: “Kisini Tamitini”
(Kitchen Somethings). The list runs as follows:
Ketera 2 Tiporo tikuiti Garasi 1
Bageti 1 Tamioko 1
Aeni t Bigi Naipi 1
Totipeni 3 Flour tini 2
Beitini 6 Gureibi tipuni 1
Turei 1 Kisini Naipi 3
Parampani 3 Vata Garasi Bigivani 4
Suka Tipuni 2 Timoru Garasi 6
Tikoni Tini 2 Bigi Tipuni 6
Birikani 2 Pudini Tipuni S
ripoti 5 Teboro Naipi, B. 4
rimolu Panikeni C Timolu Naipi 3
Bigi Panikeni 5 Toviasi 6
'lini Panikeni 2 Teboro Karasi 3
Flour kapu 3 Tj Sipuni 7
Dagi 2 _ .Tam Sipuni 1
Supi Peleite 5 Sorusi Sipuni 1
Garasi Disi 7 Sorusi Botoro 2
,‘ u }\. I?' s ' Viniga Botoro 1
I aniisi 4 Pepa Botoro 2
P.’ s l 2 Tosi Botoro 1
lim Pereite 1 Kisini Am a 1
Miti Pereite 11 Nido 2
Pudini Pereite 11 Vuru 1
Timolu Pereite 7 Kotoni 2
Miti Disi 4 Buredinaipi 1
Sosa Bigivani 5 Buredi Bodi 1
Soso Timolu 4 Mustard Botolo 1
Waite Sipote 1 Rabisi Tini 3
Tuga Beitini 2
Now go ahead and translate Papuan English into
King s English ! You won't have any difficulty with
the Flour tini 2, .Tam Sipuni 1, and Mustard Botolo
1, as he seems to have made a special effort to
memorise these grocery lines, but when you come to
Toviasi 6 you will gather that his master indulges
in the luxury of serviettes, and in case you miss the
Poetic beauty of the last item, Rabisi Tini 3, please
note that he even counts the rubbish-tins (3) daily
before evening prayers in case some low, common
black brother should purloin one on behalf of the
village brass band.
ME OLD ROOMATIC GUMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At last night’s meeting of the Royal Society
Mr. R. T. Baker dealt with the occurrence of crystals
in some Australian woods. In the discussion follow-
ing the paper, Mr. Hector suggested that the investi-
gations of Mr. Baker disclosed a sort of ‘vegetable
rheumatism.’ ”
I sit outside me old bark ’ut an’ watch th’ sufferin’
trees;
Each limb is like a twisted arm -a-wavin’ in th’
breeze;
An’ as I rub me achin’ shins I pity them galoots,
A-sighin’ in th’ wind because they’re pain from
leaves to roots.
A bloke’s all right, for he can growl an’ write for
- stuff from town ; •
But them there trees must ache an’ groan until I
chop ’em down ;
I ain’t got liniment enough to cure the ’ole dam’
push,
An’ things that gives me some relief might only nark
the bush.
I’m sorry for them flamin’ trees, and try to tell ’em
so.
Y orter ’ear them talk to me whenever there’s a blow!
Its “’Ullo, Bill!” and “Goo’-day, mate!” an “’Ow
are yeh t '-clay?"
An’ branches wavin’ everywhere to make a bloke feel
gay.
But when th’ evenin's very still an’ all the bush is
blue,
I talks about roomatics, an’ I says, “You know, don’t
you?”
An ’as the stars comes out. to ’ear my blanky fine
address,
A night wind stirs them poor dam’ trees, an’ all of
them sighs “Yes!”
N.s.w.
KODAK.


c&n always be
fot Service & Satisfaction
vz
V
1
v:
/ .
,y
'' )
l
<4*
&-- y y
m
&
dk
%
r;
Wr/M
Cr
jrt'-
K
k
K
\
a,
N
1/
>•
/
«5*5
N
-Cf
m:
P
2
r.
xa
as
M?
52
/T
1
./
1 4Z
"\
/
/s
y /,
/
y
.'"T-'-V^ir.,,,^
y
*r
z
. Clrf
f '* C
K
D
&
To you tve extend the greetings of the 1
season, and all the happiness that goes *
with it. For ourselves, we desire more
and more to merit, in our service, your
continued friendliness and patronage.
Happy Motoring Days
are only possible when you are free of all tyre
troubles. The knowledge that you have de-
pendable “Dunlops” on your Car —with their
minimum running cost, fine quality and
strength to take you any journey over all
classes of roads —is always a source of
satisfaction. Many an outing is marred by
faulty tyres. Don't take any chances —fit
“Dunlops,” there’s nothing better.
STOCKED ALL GARAGES IN THREE TYPES
GROOVED, THREE RIBBED & RUBBER NON-SKID.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z.


HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
IS THE FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, CROUP AND COLDS.
THOSE who have had occasion to take Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure are
astonished at its Wonderful Healing Power. Sufferers from bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Pain or Soreness in the
Chest, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Stuffiness,
Asthma, experience delightful and rapid relief. This
medicine is particularly valuable to those who are sub-
ject to Colds on the Chest, as it Strengthens the Lungs,
and renders them less susceptible. It is most comfort-
ing in allaying Irritation in the Throat, and giving
Strength to the Voice, and for this reason is thoroughly
appreciated by Clergymen, Public Speakers and
Singers. It does not allow a Cough to become
Chronic, and in this respect is absolutely indis-
pensable in preventing a cold from developing
into Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
or Consumption. No house should be with-
out a bottle of this Wonderful Remedy, as
taken at the first indication of a Cold, a
dose or two is generally sufficient. A
Cold should always be “nipped in the
bud,” or serious illness may follow.
“An Excellent
Preparation.”
Delightfully
Soothing.”
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size).
Sold by all RELIABLE
CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable locally, send
direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Offices at |
Sydney, n s.w.; Wellington, n.e.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.), from the time the profits
from the Neath colliery allowed the co. to
pay off the accumulated div. on pref. shares:
Writ- Nomi-
_ , ten nal Re-
Protits. Dividends. Off. serves
Mar., ’l3. .£10,137 j g£ 10 P £ =£ “*J j £3177 £3,959
Sept.,’l3.. 11,650 | Pref. l2^P =' = 1250 | 3216 5.534
Mar., 14.. 11,448 | pref 2F _ 1250 j 3283 6,824
Sept.,'l4.. 8,093 Pref. = 1250 3290 10 377
Mar.,’ls.. 719 Pref. = 1250 3178 6,668
Sept.,’ls.. 12,228 J g^. 10 P £ = }|Jo } 3922 9 -224
Mar., ’l6. . 6,565 { g^ 10 | 2467 7,572
Sept.,’l6.. 9,164 j g^- 10 p -C.= 4500 | 2650 B>3Bfi
Mar., ’17.. 7,595 j lO p -*‘“ j 3215 6,966
Sept.,’l7.. 6,059 j 5 P^ = } 2559 6,966
‘Subject to remarks hereunder.
The pref. dividend is 12£ p.c. p.a., which
shows that there was a time in the history of
the co. when things looked pretty blue.
There was, in fact, a time, and that only
10 years ago. when the co. paid 12 p.c. for a
first-mortgage loan of £BOOO. Since then the
co. has opened up the Neath mine; lately it
has been doing some development at another
purchased property adjoining the Aberdare,
and expects to be putting out coal from
there in a few months; and the directors
have lately secured “an extensive coal-bear-
ing area on the South Maitland field, to-
gether with the railway to such site.’’ Not-
withstanding the money thus spent on
purchase and development the co. has made
a great improvement in its cash position:—
Sept.,’o7. Mar.,’l7. Sept.,’l7.
Liabilities .. £21,948 £4,385 £2,413
Plant, stock, etc. 22,948 32,786 31,276
Liquid assets . . 4,034 40,316 39,605
Thus, besides money spent on development,
etc., and on plant and stock, it has in the
10 years turned a net liability of £17,914
into" a net surplus of £37,192 ; and, except
for a little in mortgage and sundries, it is
all liquid. But this mustn’t be regarded as
all profit in excess of the dividends. A lot
of it is capital formerly represented by coal
in the mines and now, the coal having been
taken out, represented by the proceeds held
for the return of capital when it can no
longer be profitably employed in the coal-
mining business. Still, in view of the excel-
lent purchases which the co. has made (any-
way, the Neath has proved an excellent
purchase), the true profit has probably been
considerably better than the table indicates.
Last half-year, for instance, though nomi-
nally the profit was only just enough to pay
5 p.c. p.a. to the ordinaries after satisfying
the cumulative prefs., not only was £lOOO
written off the mining property in spite_of
the money spent on development, phis £1559
off plant, but £lOO2 was put aside as a
reserve against workmen’s compensate
claims.
* * * *
The Warrnambool Woollen Co. (Warr-
nambool, Tie.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. ten off. serves, serves.
1911.. £B7l Nil £B7l £399
Other goodwill items added, £4O ..
1912.. 2,490 5 p.c. = £1207 £1125 158 517
1913.. 5,637 6 „ „ 1557 2712 1368 1.885
Premiums on new shares . . 65 1,950
1914.. 3,956 6 p.c. = 1749 2498 —__ 1,659
Premiums on new shares . . 235 1,894
Forfeited shares .. .. 31 1,925
1915.. 12,428 10 p.c. = 5143 300 6985 8,910
1916.. 11,737 17 „ „ 8072 500 3165 12,0/5
1917.. 4,168 12 „ „ 5912 1°, 331
The win-the-war muddlers are chiefly respon-
sible for that bump. For two years Hughes
talked of tackling the war-time profits pro-
blem, but it was only a couple of months
ago, after the Government’s belated bill
had been mauled by its own supporters, then
withdrawn and finally remodelled, that cos.
like this knew where they stood. This makes
the position for the past three years clearer:
Gross Written Provision for
Profit. Off. Taxation.
1915 .. £14,088 £3OO £1660
1916 . . 16.237 500 4500
1917 . . 12,227 8059
Fortune has favored this co. Established
in 1900. it started production in 1911 and
had got comfortably on its feet when the
war brought in nice military contracts.
During 1910 the mill was engaged almos
exclusively on Defence Department work,
but during the past year it has been again
confined to ordinary business, so the trading
account drops from £SO,O2S in 1910 0
£05.255 for the past year. The non-arnva
of certain machinery, the higher price o
wool and “other drawbacks” are, howevei.
the reasons given by the directors for no
having done better. But the co. has ma
wonderful progress. Go back only tnr
years:—
1914. 1916. I® l ‘l.
Capital £30,570 £48,254 £ 48,968
Liabilities .. .. .. 15,249 2,648 » q
Property and buildings .. 8,196 10,00/ „• , g 0
Plant and machinery .. 18,503 23,2 m - ’
Stock ! .. 12.842 20,203 28,0/9
Sundry debtors .. . • 8,259 9./18 ’ „
Other assets .. .. 2,967 9,000 5, w0
Thus £18,39S of new capital has been got»
and liabilities have decreased by * '
Meantime £10.821 has been added to P
perty and plant and £15,237 to st ° c '^,' 4 An j n
show's an improvement of about ±lo-
three years, presuming that full all® ‘ ur .
for depreciation has been made. A ar .
plus will, of course, be reduced, by tn. .
time profits tax which the co. is no it ; on
called upon to pay. Actually *, he ing
; s that after making a dividend a , j|
11 p.c. p.a. and paying war-time into
other taxes, the co. has put an am t 0
the business in three years equivalent
15 p.c. of the present capital.
There should be no doubt concerning thj
future of wooi-miiling cos. in Aust • .
is a disgrace to this wool-producing
that a world war should be nec ■ . • {us
give this and similar eos. an f ftur es
which loyalty to Australian manufactur
should assure.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Eloc”: When Justice Higgins delivered
his station-hand award I tipped in The
Bulletin that it would lead to more atten-
tion being given to sheep. I wasn’t a bad
prophet. At Murnpeowie station, from
40,000 ewes 37,200 lambs were lately
marked. On Cordillo station, next door to
M’peowie, the losses from shearing to
shearing were under 2J per cent. The
lambing at Mulgungarie and Lake Charles,
from 14,551 ewes, was 101 per cent. These
four runs are in the N.W. corner of N. S.
Wales. At Angullong station, from 2857
ewes, 3125 lambs were marked. The lamb-
ing at several places about Nyngan runs as
high as 117 per cent. I think next year it
will be hard to get a N. S. Wales station
with a lambing percentage of under 90, At
the four first-mentioned properties the
season was just an average one.
“Z”; Said the draper: “We have a precept
‘You can trust a man if he looks it.’ ” “And
what about women?” I asked. “There are
no exceptions in the case of women,” said
the draper.
Go and buy yourself some technical edu-
cation, young man. Then. God willing, you
will see your golden future beckoning to you
in this fashion :—.
Wanted, assistant electrical engineer, for country
power station; fine opportunity gain experience.
State age and experience ; £7B p.a.
“J.F.H.” (London) : The laboratories of
the Imperial Institute here have been ex-
perimenting with wattle-bark for paper-
making. The results are declared by experts
to be “highly satisfactory.” A good brown-
paper has been produced from the split
bark. It bleaches readily to a cream tint,
and in that form has been found eminently
suitable for newspaper purposes. Further
treatment converts it into serviceable want-
ing paper. The experiments were made with
wattle-bark from Natal, but doubtless the
Australian commodity would yield equally
good, if not better, results.
“Orient”: The latest large development
of wireless is the installation of a service
between Japan and the U.S.A. At Funa-
bashi, near Tokio, the station equipment
covers 110 acres. There are 19 masts, the tall-
est over 650 feet, and 18 of 260 feet each are
arranged in a great half-mile ring. The
receiving instruments are of the Teishinsho
type, developed by Japanese experts on their
own lines, and unknown to the rest of the
world. There is an intermediary station at
Honolulu, but messages direct from Tokio
often reach San Francisco in considerable
strength. Funabashi has been heard in
Berlin, and, as a matter of course, in neigh-
boring Australia.
* * * *
Some local industries deserve tariff pro-
tection—with a boot. One of Sydney’s
flourishing preserving cos., which owes every-
thing to Australian support, announces on
its letterheads that the stationery is
“Printed in England.” Between that and
the limit you couldn’t squeeze a political
promise, and God knows they’re thin enough.
“Eddyaon” on the blessings of insurance:
In the most-devoted-wife competition I enter Mrs.
William Ebenezer of The Mills. Mr. William
Ebenezer is a man on the land, and specialises in
eggs and onions. Mr. Ebenezer has no family apart
from Mrs. Ebenezer, and all his neighbors admit it
is a good thing for the family. Ebenezer is a tall,
morose man, curiously liable to be affected by the
sun, the moon, the wind, the rain, cold, heat, pork,
cats, fried-up vegetables, cold pudding, strong
drink, tin-fish and thunder. It is a blessed day
indeed when William Ebenezer is not affected more
or less by one or other of these things, and on
his worst days he is affected by several simultane-
ously. He married late in life, not because he
wanted a wife, but mainly for the reason that he
was beginning to find himself unequal to both
onions and eggs. He wanted someone to take full
control of the egg department. So William married
Hannah. It was an imposition on Hannah, who
expected to be the recipient of natural love and affec-
tion, and found instead that she was merely the
vehicle through which William Ebenezer might
express himself when affected by the moon, thunder,
vegetables or sundries. (See list.) When it was
merely a distemper produced by tinned herrings or
cold boiled duff, William took a bit of a stick to
Hannah. When it was a more violent disorder induced
by thunder or an unpropitious moon, William took
an axe, or maybe a gun, and then Hannah had to
run for it and hide in the bush pending atmo-
spheric changes. Hannah unhappily was getting too
old to run more than a mile, and the local betting
was all against Hannah’s chances of surviving Wil-
liam. The general impression was that he would
get her in the end, but whether it would be with the
axe or the gun was a moot point. Meanwhile, when
not running for her life, Hannah was a devoted and
affectionate wife; when not laid up after a hiding
of greater severity than usual, she was an indus-
trious helpmate, and did as well with the egg
branch as any reasonable man could have expected,
taking the depravity of hens into account. Hannah’s
own opinion was that William would slay her in
one of his touches of the sun, or visitations of the
moon, or when slightly turned by the thunder, poor
man, and she was terribly solicitous about him,
God bless him! As she often pointed out, “It would
come very hard on my William if he hurt me
severely in one of them turns of his and had me
laid up on his hands for weeks, months maybe, per-
haps with a doctor to pay, and all the time no one to
look after the hens.” The neighbors hearing this talk
were thrown into attitudes of gaping amazement,
being satisfied that nothing ailed Ebenezer but
meanness, cussedness, cowardice, evil temper and
lack of all the decent attributes of humanity. Then
Hannah got a chance to go to town. She returned
to The Mills, radiant. “It’s all right now,” she
told Mrs. Brine. “If the worst comes to the worst,
William won’t have to complain. It’s-a weight off
my mind. And it will put William more at his
ease, too.” “But what is it you have done, my dear ?”
Mrs. Brine asked her. Hannah produced the papers.
Her face radiated satisfaction. “I’ve insured my
life,” she said. “I’ve insured against accident, too.
Now William's all right!” William has since
availed himself of the benefit of Hannah’s insurance
against accident, but has derived no advantage from
the life assurance as yet.
“Rubber Stamp” The fact that a mailbag
was stolen during transit on a Sydney subur-
ban railway the other day, and was later on
found rifled, got a line or two in the Sydney
daily press—which was just about all it
deserved. Until better provision is made
for the care of this important public pro-
perty, any person with evil notions will find
it ridiculously easy to “lift” a mailbag. Boys
are entrusted with the goods from suburban
offices to the railways; at the station they
are thrown into the guard’s end of the last
smoking carriage. The trains pull up at
intermediate stations, and the bags take their
chance in the dirt and spittle. On the har-
bor ferries they get no more attention. They
are just “chucked aboard.” The method of
shifting them from the G.P.O. to the railway
station is no better. Every evening the
rumbling motor-lorry or the rattling, horse-
drawn van worms through Sydney traffic
with its load of bags pitched on anyhow. The
Department has a lot of luck not to lose a
bag or two every week.
“Kawana”; The Maori sly-grog consumer
in the nominally-“dry” King Country circum-
vents the policeman with the slimness of a
Chinese smuggler. One of his devices —un-
happily John Hop is just getting wise to it—
is to conceal the waipiro bottles in packages
of dried shark. The backblocks Maori is a
whale for mango maroke sent up by his sea-
side cousins., and every wake at Te Kuiti or
Taumarunui or Ongarue is an occasion for
the railing-up of a ton or two of the mal-
odorous fish. John Hop naturally found
urgent business elsewhere when the mango
was dumped on to the station platform, and
the railway people’s only comment was that
Ngati So-and-So were getting extraordinarily
fond of the old shark diet. I have known
the Maniapotos develop remarkable after-
dinner heads on a simple repast of mango;
but the King Country pakehas run brown
brother pretty close in the whisky-smuggling
biz.
“Rosna” (London) : This is a quaint war.
Matches are the latest thing it’s taken from
us. When we ask our grocer for them (at
Is. 2d. a dozen) he looks hurt and clearly
suspects us of being pro-German. We can
sometimes get a few from a penny-in-the-
slot machine, and by stealth our tobacconist,
being a perfect lady, will now and then sell
us a thimbleful. But the old comfortable fam-
ily of 12 boxes in a paper house is no more.
The Food Controller—yes, I know it looks
as though somebody eats them —has drastic-
ally announced that the price is to come
down at once to Tld. a dozen. But he’s a
humorist. Nobody has a dozen.
If Australia ever imports another dredge
from overseas she will deserve to be shelled.
The Matthew Flinders, a big suction dredge
built by the Mort’s Dock people for the Vic
Government, was taken down Svdney Har-
bor for its trials early this month, and swal-
lowed sand from a depth of 40 feet at the
rate of 1250 tons in 44 minutes. The splen-
did glutton is Australian-built throughout
and should end for ever the crime of bring-
ing these unwieldy craft across the world at
the risk of sailors’ lives.
* •
“Derwentside” : At the death-knock of the
session of the Speck Parliament just closed
a Bill passed in which provision was made
ioi granting licenses “for the purpose of
obtaining and removing kelp from lands
adjmmng the foreshore and covered by the
territorial waters of the sea.” In granting
a renewal of a license (which is limited to
14 years) preference is to be given to appli-
cants who have carried out experimental and
dr> '/ onmental tests and work in connection
wuh the treatment of kelp for the purpose
ot obtaining commercial products. Now
that this lull has passed, an application is
to be made to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for permission to float a co. to manu-
facture ootash and manure, and thus collar
some of the business of which Germanv had
an almost complete monopoly prior to the
war. There is a syndicate already in exist-
ence.
* * * *
, “£° r< ?l te ”. : r - Lll ° tragedy at Halifax caused
‘V“ e blow.ng-up of a munition ship as the
result of a collision reminds me of an escape
Newcastle (N.S.W.) had. A ketch was
dodging her way up the harbor, when a lum-
benng big lighter shot across the narrow-
gutted fairway and struck her on the star-
board bow. The stem of the lighter cut a
tidy hole in the ketch, and when she backed
out the master of the steamer could see the
cases with which she was loaded. With his
mind running on demurrage he hailed “What
are you carrying, Captain?” “Gunpowder.”
was the reply. “Gawd!” ejaculated the
skipper of the lighter as he spun the wheel
But Newcastle just went on having a long
oblivious of what it had missed
QUERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If at some rather too-imminent.date,
Aided thereto by a bomb or trench-mortar,
I. should stand quaking in front of the Gate,
Trying to bluff the Celestial porter,
Will the recounting of what I have done
Win me my issue of “Harp, golden, one”?
How persuade Peter to wangle his key ?
What though I came, to the grief of my inwards,
Over a most inconsiderate sea,
Thousands of miles, to meander Berlinwards ?
Will the mere fact that I nearly got there
Prompt him to issue me “Wings, white, one pair”?
What though less worthy have entered before,
Will he consider the fact as a precedent?
Will the resplendent gold stripes that I wore
Qualify me for enrolment as resident?
Will they ensure my admission to Heaven,
Fully equipped with “One Halo, size seven”?
Then, on the other hand, haply my way
May have a trend in a different direction;
Soothly, it’s quite on the cards that I may,
Thanks to my instinct for seeking protection,
Find the drab uniform wherein they dressed us
Swapped for “One Tropical Outfit, asbestos.”
SOMEWHERE.
EDMUND COUSINS.


iii
N
: '
/
A
m
- :;V
m
■
II
i
I
/fct&ujriti
m
d<fcotch
J
#ouqMu Cua*o«.
i
t 1
• n
.
mmmmmmrn
■ - . . .
••"• ****** »**
SBSSS*
Tho Xmas Toast
“SUCCESS TO THE ALLIES”
TO ENSURE
PEACE ON EARTH AND GOODWILL TOWARD MEN.
Givon infho spiPit >
WATSONS N? lO'.


A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond and Pearl or
Aquamarine set
Necklace, 15ct.
Gold, £5/10/-.
All Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Crossover Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Links,
extra strong, 35/-. 15ct.,
£B. Any style initials or de-
signs call be made.
A. Saunders’ loct. Gold
Locket, set with Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£5/10/-
All Diamonds, £7/10/-
A. Saunders' pure double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, Isct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond and Ruby
or Sapphire
Cluster Rins;,
18rt. Gold, £l5.
All Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
pure double-cut
Diamond
Cluster Scarf
Pin and Stud,
loct. Gold,
£lO.
Scarf Pin,
with Pearl
Cluster & Dia-
mond centre,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
Diamond Jewellery.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Half-hoop
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £25.
Set with all Pearls, £5.
m-
m
mm
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Lady s Patent Lxpandi-M
Wristlet Watch, jewelled Lever movement, set
Olivines or Pearls, £l2/10/-, £lo, £l</10/-
Diamonds and Rubies, £2O. All Diamonds,
£3O, £4O, £5O.
Set
ALL
ORDERS
POST
FREE.
ALL
ORDERS
POST
FREE.
is
' -
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s 9ct. Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless Waltham Watch, heavy case, full
jewelled, compensation balance, specially ad-
justed, £JO. 15ct. Solid Gold, £l5.
18ct. Gold, £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £35.
Smaller Diamonds,
£20.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Dress Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
Send for Ulus’rated Catalogue it’s Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(Opp. Railway
Station),
Sydney.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £o.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
King, 18ct. Gold,
£lO. Larger
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Boat-shape
King, 18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond and Pearl
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3. All Diamonds, £3/JO/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond
and Pearl set Necklace
15ct., Gold,
£l2 'iO/-
All Diamonds, £l5
\. Saunders’ Diamond and Rubv
Sapphire set Brooch, 15et. Gold' £
All Diamonds, £lO, £l2/10/-,
£l5.
Gl 2
A. Saunders’
pure double-cut
single-stone
Diamond Scarf
Pin & Stud,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ loct. Gc*l
Links, set pure Diamond,
£3/10/-. Larger Dia-
monds, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-
i
A. Saunders’ loct. Gold
Medal, - set with pure
double-cut Diamond.
£4/10/-, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, according to
size of diamond.
»■■■
oap
Ml!'
H
I 1
IMP
ini
III:
nv>;
jnr
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per clay, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
I
9*l
STRENGTH WITHOUT WEIGHT'is
PRINCIPLE IN THEIR MANUFACTURE OF
ani£JViaU'n4cc&3.
PURITY OF YARN
PERFECTION OF MANUFACTURE
SEE
“HOKROCKSES”’
ON
SELVEDGE
BOOKS AT AUSTRALIA’S BIG BOOK STORE.
I Will Get You Any Book You Require.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE-TELLING CARDS—LOVE, BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc.,
with full directions, 1/- posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to Win at Cards.
1/3. Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering. Brazing. Gasfitting, &c., 1/6
posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, 1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-,
posted 1/3. Camille, 1/6 posted. How to Vamp on Piano, 1/-. Piano Tuning
and Repairing. 1/3. Modern Etiquette. 1/3. Hoyle’s Card Games (Rules
for all Games), 1/-. How to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man from Snowy River. 4/-.
Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic, 1/3. Every Man
His Own Carpenter, 1/3. Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator. 1/-.
The Doctor (Cures for all Diseases), 1/3 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches & Toasts, Public Speaking Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly
Gang of Bushrangers, _ illustrations and portraits, 1/-; posted, 1/2. Electricity
Made Simple (new), 5/-. Self-Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/3 posted. Cabinetmakers’ llandybook. 1/6. Complete Book-keep-
ing, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. Parlor Magtc, 1/- posted. How McDou-
gael Topped the Score, & Other Verses. 1/3, French Self Taught, 1/2. Wan-
nan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide. 5/6 posted. Adventures of John .Johns, 1/6.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at 3/6 each posted!
Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/6 posted. Women’s Secrets. 1/- posted. Gay Ihfe
in Melbourne, 1/- posted. The Woman of Fire, 2/-. Send a trial order NOW.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save your cash. • 25 Years.
with Cards, 1/3. Sappho, genuine, 1/3. vjlu nusu ouiMio,
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2/6.
AnA Af r TVnci ixr YT T\ . 1 - .... -w »
iNE'V xm^
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1/6 posted, j.-*-" ~
,TT r '— 1/0 • Old Bush Songs. 1/3 posted. D*
- -- - ""* Aristotle, o/o.
Guide
IAJ ... nt,v uuiimu, JL/ U UUSieU. \MI A Wi»*. *
' P° s ted. Tokology. "/G posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d., 2/-. How T 0 j
Heads (,Tas. Coates), 1/6 posted. Ciievasse's Advice to a Wife; 3/6 P<> s •
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assistant, 1/6. The wif
Handbook, 1/2 posted. Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5/6 posted. IK
(P 1 HiLosopiiY, 1/- posted. 100 New Recitations and Readings, 1/3. ER ' m
ness and Its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, Id' 1 ’
p ges, 1000 illus., leather bound, my price. 16/- post paid ( why pay 3 and 4 guin • '
ROOTMAKING AND REPAIRING, 1/3. DYNAMOS AND ELECTRIC MOTORS, l/o. MOO®
Assistant and Complete Mechanic. 1016 pages, cloth bound. 1/
po.ied. The Secrets of Clairvoyance. 1/- posted. 200 Old-Time Songs
WRiTElmn 1/6 postecL The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted
HRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this advt,
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere fox* the AsKing*
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR POSTAL NOTE OF ANY
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST, NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
IHE BIG BOOK stqrf 67 g 69 Market Strcet , Sydney


IT’S
NO
LONGER
NECESSARY
for fashionably-dressed men to have
their footwear “made-to-order.”
It was considered desirable a few
years ago, but well-dressed men
everywhere are now demanding
ABBEY SHOES
the footwear that means “made-
to-order” satisfaction, without the
delay and extra cost of being
measured.
We make all our models in half-
and full-sizes —and in narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
We illustrate a choice Patent
Oxford Bah, with dull Calf Legs.
Price - - 47/-
In highest-grade Tan Willow Calf,
same price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
(rOssard
COR'SE'T'S
In Fron t
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
GAPILLARINE
-1
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
M ARE YOU
Ruptu reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is nO ,L °my
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one inAl
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made ofsoft rub e ,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE G'VE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more !
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
If any
Bulletin
Manager,
illustration appearing in Tiie
takes your fancy, write to the
who will quote you price for it.
Polrol
costs too much. Economise by using “fi A RO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
£
£
<
n
%
*
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Littte Collins St„ Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFiCE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J-
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hoiaern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
are pure, and will keep j'Our cows, horses, sheep
and other animals in first-class condition.
THEY WILL INCREASE YOUR COWS’ SUPPLY
OF RICH, CREAM-BEARING MILK.
“HANG THEM BY THE LOOP.”
In 51b. Blocks, 2/- each; or 22/6 8 e n r „
At all Saddlers, Blacksmiths, Produce Merchants & Stores.
HEART OF EMPIRE SERIES.
No. 1.
THE HORSE
GUARDS
The Guard House in front
of Whitehall Palace was
originally built in 1641. The
present building was erect-
ed in 1751-3, and was used
as Headquarters by the
Secretary of State for War,
the Commander-in-Chief
and his Staff until 1873.
The Clock was famous for
its accuracy, and, in olden
times, was used as the
standard of time (as
Greenwich is now).
TO?
0
a<
m
run
nun
\€
— ttt
u
M
H
K
u
baa*
n\\'\
TP
ra
Cfi
I
( *zr
«...
ss
\\
%
i
MILES OF AVON ” tours London and gives en route some little-
known particulars of famous places in the Heart of the Empire.
It is interesting to know that the War Office of to-day is situated
almost opposite the Horse Guards and has requisitioned huge supplies
of strong, enduring and dependable AVON TYRES ever since the
outbreak of war. And, although hundreds of Avon employees are
now in the firing line proving the “mettle of their pasture,”
the supplies of Avon Tyres are fully maintained by their
comrades and are helping the Allies along the road to Victory.
Fit ‘British AVONS to Your Car.
N.S.W. Agents— HAMMOND & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents—H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents—The Queensland Motor Agency, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


*%cture4*
vT~
es
- >7
&
sy
•?/
c_
p
p
, I'mm
: h \
m
wi
Spell Power, Personality
and Success.
Tiint'a . f^le ‘ V ie finding their way into every nook and corner of the globe.
Trent o- ? I * Mson - they are being received everywhere with such 4clat.
br eat. grand productions, portrayed by artists who are loved the world over.
WAIT AND WATCH FOR
SA“ F " TOUBO * IN “BABBAKY SHEEP .”
“ THE BYSTBRIOUS MISS TERRY.”
DALTON IN “THE PRICE MARK.”
I>OlG. FAIRBANKS IN “AVILD AND WOOLLY "
WM. HART IN “THE NARROW TRAIL.”
MARY PICKFORD IN “THE LITTLE AMERICAN.”
Because they're worth it —we
say it and we mean it. Will
you see them at your theatre V
Our advice is, see that you do!
POLITICAL
POINTS
A VOYAGE TO THE ANTARCTIC.
“They told me you vos avay on a concert
tour —rot bring you back?”
"The solitude, mein friendt, night after night
der appalling solitude.”
The referendum which has been frothing
Australia for the past month has been nearly
everything that a referendum should not be.
A referendum ought to be an appeal to the
people to speak above party. Hughes w r as
quite right w’hen he declared that the failure
of the previous referendum w 7 as not of itself
a reason w 7 hy the Government of the time
should have retired. It is against the very
essence of the thing that the life of a Min-
istry should be dependent on the result. If
it is made dependent, then you get no
straight answer from the people on the one
clear issue. You get, in the present case,
for instance, no clear verdict even upon the
poor little bit of Conscription proposed, be-
cause thousands of people will vote or have
voted, not upon the question of policy, but
to eject Hughes, while thousands of others
have voted or will vote to keep Tudor and
his poor crowd from being entrusted with
power at the present time. The referendum
is a great deal better and finer thing than
the party hacks are making of it.
The bigger our foreign debt grows and the
higher the rate of interest wfliich we have to
pay for it, the more necessary it
becomes to sell our products out-
side Australia. And especially
for some years to come, because
shipping space will be scarce and
freights high, the nearer the mar-
kets the better. Asia is our
biggest handy market; in China
alone there are over 300 millions,
who might be big buyers of Aus-
tralian goods in the bulk. But
the Commomvealth has no com-
mercial representative in Asia.
N. S. Wales has one Government
agent, who has to cover the
ground from Siberia round to
India; the other States are not
represented, and it isn’t desirable
that they should be represented.
There isn’t in all China one offi-
cial whose business it is to even
answer a question about Australia
and what it can supply. There
have been some queer results. A
few 7 years ago American goods
were boycotted on that coast of
Asia; whereupon, no Australian,
flour being procurable, because
there was no one to sell it.
thousands of bags of the same old
American dust w 7 as put on the
market in bags marked “Austra-
lia,” and sold at a price a trifle
in excess of the old rate!
The Federal Parliament should at once
appoint a committee to overhaul the War
Precautions Act, the regulations and the
instructions of the Censor. It is monstrous
that there should continue in existence law’s
and regulations under which any venomous
Administrator may "have” practically any-
body. The Prime Minister committed a
hundred breaches of the law’ during the
recent campaign ; and if every other Minis-
ter didn’t break the law 7 a hundred times
he broke it often- — arid did well to break it.
The law 7 declares, for instance, that it is an
offence to create public alarm ; yet the w 7 hole
purpose of the Conscription campaign was
to create alarm. The Censorship instruc-
tions are equally anomalous. There is
scarcely an issue of any big daily which does
not fracture an instruction; and these frac-
tures are connived at, dozens of the instruc-
. t;ons being allowed to lie dormant. But
here again a venomous Administrator may
“have” a detested opponent any day he is
bold enough to take action.
The Antis have had to admit that Ger-
many, France and other great nations of
Europe have Conscription. But they say
it is not Conscription for foreign service.
Even if this were wholly true, which it
isn’t, it has no bearing upon Australia’s
relation to this war. If France had trouble
w’ith the natives in some Pacific island, it
would not be a case for Conscription, be-
cause the existence of France would not be
imperilled. France is no more England
than it is Australia ; and if it is wrong to
ask the Conscriptionist Lahorite of Aus-
tralia to defend Australia by fighting in
France, it is equally wrong‘ to ask the
Englishman to defend England bv fighting in
France. He should have waited until the
German did to London what he did to Lou-
vain. If the Australian Anti is not pre-
pared to admit that, the bottom drops out
of his argument that, while .Conscription is
good doctrine w’hen the fighting has to be
done in Australia, it isn’t good when the
fighting is beyond its shores.
Billson, M.L.A. of Vic., advancing reasons
for leaving Bill in the lurch ;
Every man has the right to dispose of his own
body and soul in the way he thinks proper. The
State has no right to take that body.
V ell, if Billson w 7 ould fill himself w’ith
tanglefoot and dispose of his body by placing
it across the footpath in Collins-street, he
w r ould find the State carrying it aw 7 ay on a
stretcher and giving it seven days. Or if
he climbed out of the body and left it deco-
rating the steps of the Assembly, then Bill-
son from the neighborhood of Charon’s
wharf might contemplate the State taking
further liberties w 7 ith his property. He
would probably find it carving the property
up to see what was inside. And if he
decided to give this world best but took an
insufficient dose of poison, he would find the
Law asking him why he did it and locking
him up until he entered into bonds not to do
it again. The solemn truth is that about the
only thing a citizen cannot dispose of either
surreptitiously or publicly without getting
into conflict with rules and regulations, is
himself. Dead or alive, the body of a cit.zen
is his greatest embarrassment. The State
“interferes” with it day in and day out,
from the cradle to the grave.
“Chal” ; The Defence Department is still
wasting handfuls of money on unnecessary
things. This should be checked at once,
if only that there may be an increase in
the allowance of per day for each of
THE OVERWORKED AUSTRALIAN
SIMILE.
SAILOR: “What sorter place is Mesopo-
tamia?”
SOLDIER: “When it’s ’ot it’s ’ot as ’ell; when
it's cold it's cold as ’ell; and when
there’s wind it blows like ’ell."
Billjim’s kiddies under the age of 10—a
miserably inadequate provision. It should
be Is. a day at least. In a high-wage
country 41d. a day won’t keep a healthy
nipper in shoe-leather. Another hardship
for the married Australian soldier is the
keeping back of Is. per day as deferred pay.
What’s that for? Is there any sense in it?
Any reason for it except that somebody else
did it a long while ago? Ask yourself how
you would like to pay rent, lodge and insur-
ance and clothe and feed three average
healthy Australians on £2 3s. 2d. a week.
Dad requires the other 7s. himself.
One of Australia’s politicians, on return-
ing from a trip abroad at the public expense,
presented a bill for wireless messages sent to
wi-fey. The proper quarter demurred to
shelling out, but the traveller insisted, on
the ground that the despatches were mainly
about Red Cross and other war work. After
argument he offered to waive payment for
all the love and kisses, leaving the taxpayer
the residue. The compromise was accepted,
but the reduction could hardly be seen with
a microscope. Australia’s a great pie when
you get your finger into it!
Attorney-General Ilerdman, of Maoriland,
who is being jobbed into a Supreme Court
judgeship, will probably hand the portfolio
on to Francis Bell, K.C., the member of the
Ministry in the Leg. Council. This reminds
The Bulletin that Chief Justice Stout is
73. a circumstance which Bell may have
also noticed. But there isn’t much time to
lose. Bell himself won’t be G 6 any more.
What dirty business it all is! Early in
the proceedings Hughes saw that Conscrip-
tion would get no help from Mannix; so
Mannix was joined with Sinn Fein and
Sinn Fein with the Devil and Germanv.
Aine people out of 10 accepted Sinn Fein at
Hughes’s estimate of it. But now, while the
little man is still boiling, a lump of ice drops
down his back in the shape of fin announce-
ment by De Valera, leader of the Sinn
r einers, . that Ireland, whether separate
from or included in the Empire, desires to
inarch shoulder to shoulder with it But
there will be no apology to the Sinn Fein.
Those who yell that there shouldn’t be
any conscription of life until there is con-
scription of wealth ought to look up the
transactions of the Probate Office r '
acting-Premier George Fuller col]
them His father, an old N s wi Ct
South Coast storekeeper diorl i A ’.
estate valued at £156,165 The n an
wealth and State each collar over
between them one-thir? 3 ’? 00 "
estate. ’ ue nnrd of the
“Red Tape” makes an application •-
The publication as an Anti-Conscription “,1 i
of a confidential minute written in Lebrun ', ger '’
Premier Holman to the Cabinet has upset th** '''
placericy of N. S. Wales Public Service n ■ C ° m ‘
last few years there have been many chan" 8 the
political control; and the boast of the Sen \°'
been its loyalty to the Ministrv in power x
looks as if a traitor has been at work, and -i*.
uncomfortable. Perhaps the Anti crowd got hold 1
the minute or a copy of it independently of
officer, and if that is the case it’s to be honed tV’
they will be decent enough to say so. Meanwhif
challenge anyone to deny that the time has com ,1
see that departments are ridded of Germans Till
that is done the Service can’t feel safe.
Wangaratta takes the fact that its mem .
bor is now Premier of Vic. without excite
ment. Ihe citizens reckon that 'their
chances of getting a lunatic asylum or a mo
have not been increased by the exaltation of
their member. What they fear is that John
Bowser s quixotic honesty will lead him to
avoid even the appearance of evil bv keening
out of any legitimate grab that mav offer
itself, and that some of th e 64 less particu-
lar members will get any plums left bv an
economy policy.
SUITED WILLIAM SPLENDIDLY.
NURSEMAID: “My mistress doesn't allow me
to have followers."
BILL : “ That’s pood. You won’t he flirtin
with other blokes when I go hack to
France."
“Shanghai”: For many years Vic. State
schools used chalk from the U.S.A. Six or
seven years ago the Jap started to push 1D -
Now a poor sample is offered us branded
“Made in England.” Chalk! What a sel -
reliant people we are ! Heaven only knows
how we manage to dig Australian clay to
make bricks with.
[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, ■
Barr and E. O'Ferrall, of 214 George-street, .
ney, take the responsibility.]
THE LISTENERS.
(Being the wail of a recruiting-sergeant.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gord ! Won’t anything move ver ?
Same old faces ’ere
Day after day, an’ week on week
All through the bloomin’ year!
Some that are stolid, an’ grinnin’ some,
’Urryin’, driftin’, you go an’ come,
Listen, an’ clap me, an’ shout “Ooray !”
“That was a bonzer speech!” y’ say,
’ltch up yer shoulders, an’ walk away !
Dinkum, you sicken me, standin’ there —
Me that’s been puttin’ it straight an’ fair.
P’raps there’s a way to reach yer—
Don’t seem to be my way!
You ! “Won’t anything move yer,
Anything shift yer—
Eh?
’Tisn’t because I foller
Blokes with the Oxford bleat—
Them that can frame, with ’oney 7 ed words,
Bait for your frozen feet;
Blokes that can limber a “aitch” or “g”
On to the spot where it oughter be,
For their ’ot words an’ their kiddin’ fine,
An’ the speeches they ’url at your waitin’ line,
Can’t get .ver movin’, no more’n mine!
Seems to me only one thing yer’ll do—
You’re flamin’ good listeners, through an’ through !
You that are suckin’ your gobsticks
There by the kerbstone, say;
S’posin’ I lobbed yer a bomb or two,
Think that’d shift ver,
Eh?
Think there’s a thing that’d budgte yer
Out of your attitood—
Make yer pull faces or interrupt,
Swear, or do somethin’ rude?
Orderly dials an’ nice black ats,
Collars an’ weskits an’ fags an’ spats—
’Struth, if your listenin’ ’elped us win
You’d be the kings, as I’ll give yer in !
Gord, but I’m sick of your listenin’!
Waggin’ my flippers an’ wastin’ skite —
Why w-on’t yer scrap; are yer too perlite?
S’posin’ a Zep came over,
W hat do yer think you’d say,
Dodgin’ a dray-load of gelignite ?
Think it’d, start ver—
Eh?
'i on with the willin’ ear’oles,
Use them for somethin’ else!
Come to a place that 1 know, an’ ’ear
The squealin’ of eight-inch shells !
Cuddle the dugout, an’, under cover,
Lark to the “Minnies” screamin’ over!
Go where the blokes ’oo ’ave learned to do
Anker to teach yer a thing or two
More than the things that yer thought yer knoo !
Me, ’oo am ’urt an’ ’ave got the sack
(An’ bluffin’ the doctor to let me back)
l am the bloke ’oo w 7 ould move yer,
Get yer to sign an’ go,
Only—there’s nothin’ ’ll do the trick,
Nothin’ ’ll kid yer—
Nol
victoria.
BASH.
FREE SCREECH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Liberty of speech is given without limit awl
njoyed by all.” —M .M. Hughes. 1
We nil enjoy it. Language without limit
Illuminates the darkness of our thought.
Xo rules can check, no grnmmar e’er can dim it
X'o nets of argument its points have caught.
But up and down the clouds of rhetoric thunder
With scarce a gleam of lightning near or far,
While wrestling patriots patriots tear asunder
To show us all how traitorous they are.
Freedom of speech! Our joy in such a blessing
Runs over in each suburb every night,
Where Noes, who hate all strife, are heard address-
ing
The crowds who follow them in fight or flight.
Softly the Yeses plead a peaceful hearing
From mobs with liberty to count them out;
And in the hooting mixed with eager cheering
All thought is driven forth in headlong rout.
We all enjoy it. Ho, for shout and gabble!
Democracy has found its happy voice;
But, somehow, ’mid the fierce and wordy rabble
As citizens we needs must make a choice.
Get cotton-wool to stuff our ears with quiet.;
We want to think before the polling-day—
To find a Kaiser-smashing plan and try it,
In spite of all that Billy Hughes can say.
K.S.W
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


The Old Homestead —Bysteelerodd. |L
The White Champion-By don delaney. eac h
Silver Star — By RANDOLPH BEDFORD. 11l
The Selector Girl —By broda REYNOLDS, posted
Four Notable Additions to the “Bookstall” Series.
ROIS UJP
AnfcroM Pratt
The “Bookstall” Series
of Australian Nose’s
is the most popular library of Australian
fiction.
OVER 100 VOLUMES. TOTAL SALES
EXCEEDING 1,500,000.
TJOJET OF
ftE-FIFTIRS
DON
DEJLANEV
On Sale at all Bookstalls and Booksell rs in the Commonwealth.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
An ideal fiction library for
country homes.
The best reading to to
our soldiers abroad.
HUMOR.
‘THE MISSING LINK,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
‘A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
‘THE SPRING CLEANING,”
By TIIOS. E. SPENCER.
SPORTING.
‘IN THE LAST STRIDE,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
‘WOLAROI’S CUP,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
‘EROS! EROS WINS!”
By F. AGAR.
Steele Rudd’s Famous Selection Stories.
HISTORICAL.
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,”
By ROY BRIDGES.
“BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER,”
By LOUIS BECKE.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,”
By DON DELANEY.
BUSH NOVELS.
“THE CALLING VOICE,”
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
“CHANDLER OF CORRALINGA,”
By R. J. CASSIDY.
“MUM DAWSON, BOSS,”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
inuiiimiiiiiii'i
he British Westinghouse Electric, and .Manufacturing Co.. L-ta.^
Electric Motors
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy eiectrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse —motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
retinphoiw
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Standard Waygood Hercules, Ltd.,
77. King Street, Sydney.
Elder, Shenton & Co., Ltd.,
William Street. Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
27-31, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-88, William Street, Melbourne.
TRYING SOMETHING NEW.
There seems to be-a weakness in Human Nature to try everything new that comes along. This
is so well known that certain clever people are continually bringing new things, or rather old
thino-s with new names, to catch these inquisitive folk. Most of these things have little or no merit,
and are tried once or twice and then discarded. When the Public continues to take a lemedy like
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills year in and year out there is a good sound reason why.
Thev try the other things but soon find something wanting, and they come back to the reliable
remedy that they can depend on. There is no use saying “Don’t waste your money experimenting,”
because it will be waste of time. Try these things by all means. Try internal lubrications and
fill your system with mineral oil to do the work of the Bile, Natures own lubricant. Try every
new brand of salts on the market, every new tablet that has claims made for it that any kind of
food can be taken in any quantity if only this tablet is taken to digest it. Try them all, and soon
it will be found there is something lacking. There will be something that does not seem just right
in the after effect, and then come back to Dr. Morse’S Indian Root Pills and note the
change There is a general feeling of satisfaction and buoyancy not experienced from these
other'so-called remedies. This is what has occurred for years. After trying many experiments
with things that are heavily boomed, it is found that the satisfactory result is absent. The reason
• verv sim 1c In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills there is a proved combination of
in ered ien t si hat form one compound that is highly efficient for the Liver and Allied Organs, not
l flncffino- the system as these other remedies do without getting at the cause, but aiding in
at rU a „ d .1™ n -m, .he
rff ° „ nnd the reason whv many of these new fads are tried a few times and found so ineffective
"X— end Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills agaio resorted to
and found to accomplish everything that is claimed for them.


Whether an enlightened democracy can
oppose the essential democratic principle of
eounl justice because this principle now
demauds unusual sacrifice the referendum
will show, simresteth that democratic spirit
King George IV. topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED. Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Goan
LEWIS&WMITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
7 hree-point Golf Ball
MESH
MARKED.
Distance
Approaching
Putting.
k
y*s
/
r?
pi
a
r?
/
r-
.Made by the WORTHINGTON BALL CO.
Three-point Green 31dwt. sinks.
Three-point Orange 29dwt. sinks.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
Sold by the Leading Sports Depots and
Professionals throughout Australasia.
Sole Agents for Australasia (Wholesale only):
R. S. COUCHE (St. CO.
SYDNEY: MELBOURNE:
321 PITT STREET. 396 FLINDERS LANE.
3"
mMs
©
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A.J.C. Villiers Stakes on Saturday and
Summer Cup on Boxing Day. The first looks a
more open event than the other. The imported Pro-
mised Land has many friends for the mile, and might
have more if he had a bit larger weight to carry.
Too light a rider may be no good to Promised Land.
All the same, he must have a rare chance. Sobrina
and Mehi King may be somewhere in the picture at
the right end. If Sasahoff does not win the Cup he
ought to be ashamed of himself ; but the hoodoo of
a Russian name may be a heavy burden these times.
Punters who rushed to Moorefield (Syd-
ney) on Saturday with a view to winning something
to invest at the Christmas and New Year meetings
mostly got separated from what they took with them.
It vas a day of frequent calamity, only two
favorites arriving out of seven races. In four events
nags which were backed like certainties made the
old familiar noise of a heavy body falling dismally
into a deep, dark well. There were three very con-
spicuous failures. Poitrina, winner of the Flying at
Rosehill the previous week and well-backed for the
Carrington Stakes, started at 6 to 4 with a 71b.
allowance in the six-furlongs event, and finished
third. Bridal March went out at 6 to 4 in the Carl-
ton Mile and was sixth of 10. The Welkin filly
Aires, who ran second in the Debutant Stakes and
Mona Handicap at Caulfield, was made an odds-on
chance in the Nursery against 14 others. Shell
Shock, a member of the Eudorus family, who after
a couple of unobtrusive efforts ran well up at Rose-
hill on the Bth, cleared out with the favorite, and
the shock the crowd got when it wasn’t Aires that
finished first lasted for the rest of the day.
Lucky Dip, an animal which gave much
promise as a two-year-old, and had since been several
times suspected of being likely to make a name for
himself, was a winner at last on Saturday at Moore-
field. Carrying Bst. 91b., he won the first division
of the Maiden by a couple of lengths in good style
and poor time. If Lucky Dip starts in the Carring-
ton he will carry Ist. 131 b. less than he did at
Moorefield. This will give him a chance to shift
quicker. If he doesn’t, everything else certainly will.
None of the big-priced yearlings of last
year have done much good this season, and it seems
to be getting clearer than ever that with certain
reservations the easiest way to acquire a horse is to
wander round to the sale and take the first one avail-
able. This gives Luck a chance, and what Luck can
accomplish has been fully explained by Biplane and
others lately. Anyhow, if Luck happens to be look-
ing the other way all the rules and regulations of
breeding and the confused, ill-understood influences of
heredity, can be relied upon to be worth about
tuppence. Meantime the foolishness of putting up
prize-money for immature nags to ruin themselves
over goes happily on.
There isn't long to wait when you go to
have a flutter among the ponies at Rosebery Park
(Sydney). Sometimes they start betting on the next
race when the last is only half over. On Saturday,
owing to the severe curtailment of sport by the
Federal Government, only 17 races took place during
the afternoon. A great day’s “relaxation for the
people,” as Joe Carruthers sometimes remarks. The
tote was there, of course, and after working at full
pressure found that £2132 had been machined all
day—an average of £125 per race!
Of course, the totalisator system and
methods in N. S. Wales are wildly farcical. Every-
body can see that now. And a horrible suspicion is
beginning to haunt the more intelligent Ike that it
isn’t good for him that the machine should drag out
such a miserable, futile existence. It is clear that
as things stand either Ike or the tote is superfluous,
and that any coterie of politicians who keep the two
going are in danger of being regarded as either fools
or rogues, and dangerous in either case. Now, it is
as certain as anything well can be that Australians
are going to see a very substantial reduction in
racing, partly on account of Government interven-
tion, partly because they won’t be able to afford to
keep the game going. And it is morally certain that
no N. S. Wales Government will later "on be able to
disregard the totalisator as a source of revenue or
pretend that possible receipts from that source are
equalled by the taxes paid bv MacShortodds and Co.
His ruminations on these points fill Ike with appre-
hensions of woe and tribulation.
* * * *
“H. 1.0.” : A Voice from the Bush, remin-
iscing in a recent Bulletin on tote happenings long
ago in W.A., recalls the mad, glad days of the device
in Western Queensland, about the time Mclhvraith
was Proconsul. The “machine” then consisted of a
counter with a wall at the back. On this wall the
numbered tickets were hung in 'bundles, like “tear-
off” calendars, and were pulled off as required,
totals, etc., being marked out later. It was cheering',
during a close finish, to watch the tote staff tearing
off tickets for the likeliest-looking finishers as they
came up the straight! Big divvies were not
common in those days.
* * * *
Sydney’s new O Lord Mayor Jimmy Smith
found time hanging heavily on his hands the other
day, so he spun a yarn to a newspaper man about
the £lO,OOO he made by business and hard work in
Maoriland away back in the early ’eighties. It trans-
pired that in those days .Timmy was a bit of a goat
and carried awav his 10 thousand to England to try
a system of betting on horseraces, the result being
that nine thousand vanished, and he had to wander
back with a paltry thousand to start life again.
This experience allegedly gave Jimmy the idea which
led to him getting busy on the pony-race business in
Sydney. Well, it makes a good yarn, so let it go.
But James should now get hold of another newspaper
man and tell him how much cash he put into the
pony outfit and how much he has taken out by way
of reward for providing a grateful public with sport,
or whatever it may be.
* * * *
“Snaffle”: How many first-class per-
formers have retired from the Australian turf with
unbeaten records ? I know only four. The pick of
the bunch is Grand Flaneur, who brought home the
bacon in each of his nine starts. He was at his
best when he won the A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies and
the Melbourne Cup in quick succession. In spite of
these successes he earned only £7939 in stakes. The
prize-money has grown a lot since those days. A more
recent champion was Malt Queen, who was running
in the 1907-8 season. This filly was successful
in each of her six races as a two-year-old, but died
soon after, without showing how good she really
was. Another unbeaten performer was Boniform.
This horse was bred in Maoriland, but won his first
race, the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate, at Randwiek. The
fourth champion is the Kingston horse Lecturer, who
was racing in the early ’seventies. His victories
include the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce and Champagne
Stakes.
“John Quill”: Somebody was talking
about speed camels. One of Elder’s, in S. Aus.,
completed a journey of 360 miles in 36 hours. This
is generally recognised as a record in that State.
W. R. Wilson, the Vic. racing man, paid 180
guineas for Lai, with which he won several races,
and which often threw 7 behind over 100 miles a day.
Some years ago a sporting family of Mohammedan 1 -'
in Coolgardie was prepared to back one of its strin ;
against any horse in Australia for a two days’ joui -
ney, or to perform a journey of 200 miles in quicker
time than a prad. It calculated that the distance
would be done under tw 7 o days. No one accepted the
challenge.
Jimmy Clabby was not making much of a
fist at unravelling Fred Kay at Melbourne on Satur-
day till the twelfth session arrived. At that stage of
the proceedings he managed to yard the conundrum
up in a corner and massacre him with a heavy right
on the jaw and similar peaceful visitations else-
where. While Frederic slept the sleep of the bust,
James retired to return thanks that he had not been
compelled to go the full journey.
* * * *
Outed in France, Driver Hugbie Mehegan,
one-time champion lightweight pug of Australia.
Hughie was not a long stayer in the ring, starting
early and ending soon, but while he lasted he was
one of the best of his class produced in Australia,
and his w 7 allop w 7 as very emphatic. His biggest fights
were with Matt Wells and Time. The latter beat
him in the 31st round.
“Snaffle”: We’re still breeding thorough-
breds. The other day when a motor-ear hit Edward
Perkins, a telegraph-messenger at Orange (N.S.W.),
it carried him along for a few yards before passing
over him. When they sorted out the muck-up Ted's
languid remarks w T ere: “Deliver these telegrams for
me, will you ?”
* * * *
Ex-Australian Alf Goullett, who, part-
nered with Jake Magin (America), last week won
the big New York six-day bike race, has a great
appetite for long spins. With Paddy Hehir he won
both six-day Australian events —2085 miles 1680
yards at Sydney in 1912 is the Australian record—
and in America he has argued about the finish of
four other six-day races. For the all-round Ameri-
can championships Goullett was last year third to
R. McNamara (N.S.W.) and Frank Kramer, and
first this year.
The Dunlop Co. has received a nice little
testimonial for a Christmas box. A while back a
Melbourne taxi co., wdiich Dunloped its cars as a
regular thing, fitted a dozen vehicles with imported
tyres to see how they 7 would compare with the local
article. The test, carried out under strict condi-
tions, resulted in the Australian showing a mileage
record 50 per cent, better than the "foreign cover.
* * * *
If he doesn't have a fall and break his
neck or take to booze or hard work a racing cyclist
can usually look forward to lasting a long time.
Walthour, the American champion pace-follower,
lately badly injured in Paris, has been a-w 7 hirling
round the track for over 20 y 7 ears.
“Huffin-Guffin”: “Tam O’Shanter” asks
(B. 6/12/’l7) for the record dive, or submerge.
According to my records Prof. Enoch, at the Wonder-
land Theatre, Low 7 ell, Mass. (U.S.A.), on March 28,
1896, hid himself under water for 4min. 4oisec. I
recollect another old record w 7 hich declares that Peter
Johnson remained below for 4min. 2sec. Peter said
that he could have made it 4min. 30sec., only 7 that
his children got frightened and wanted to send for
the police.
* * * *
“Cocamba” : For the amazement of “Tam
O Shanter ’ (B. 6/12/’l7), who asked for the record
submerge, I testify that Georges Pouliquen re-
mained under water for 6min. 29 4-ssec. at Pixene
de la Gare, Paris, on November 2, 1912. I collect
the w r ager, and w 7 e’ll all drink Georges's health.
* * * *
A. C. Kitchen, who is surrounding him-
self with prizes extracted from Sydney Walking and
Field Games Club this season, is a promising heel-
and-toe specialist. When the season opened, Kitchen
w 7 as with the long-markers ;on Saturdav, from 43sec..
he w 7 on the mile handicap from T. L. Wilkin (53sec.)
and H. C. Taylor (lOOsec.). Kitchen has been learn-
ing some of the fine points of the business from A. W.
Pickard, who raked up a few 7 championships and
injured some records a couple of years~ago.
* * * *
This year’s Vic. Public Schools v. Mel-
bourne C.C. fixture led to a great whack by a
Melbourne Grammar youth named R. W. Herring,
who lifted the bowling of Iremonger and Warwick
Armstrong, piling up 156 out of 325 runs in a trifle
over three hours. Herring has been a great run-
getter for Melbourne Grammar. In four vears he
has worn the scorers’ pencils down in recording 2000
runs in school games.
Wicket-keepers A. Ratcliffe (Balmain),
with 139 act out against Middle Harbor, and A.
Murdoch (Gordon), 124 against Sydney, were the
picket-smashers in Sydney cricket on Saturday. It
was the second century for both players this season.
Ratcliffe has the tall average of 92.6 for five innings.
A. Pauli, the lad who whacked up a
vigorous 118 (out of 229) and took three wickets for
19 for N.S.W. against Bananaland at Brisbane on
Saturday, has made a . stir in Sydney schools cricket
this season. Pauli plays with Tempe, and recently
took 10 wickets for 21 against Double Bay and 12
for 13 from Newtown! S. Fairfax (Kogarah), who
also got into the limelight with 12 wickets for 35
against Bananaland, is likewise a great boy cricketer.
More than half of Ma’s XI have smacked up cen-
turies in schobl cricket this season.
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, has at last
broken its long run of ill-luck in sports by winning
the annual cricket match against Prince Alfred’s by
eight wickets. There was not as much as thac
between the sides, both of which were weak in bowl-
ing. At the end of two days on a good wicket Saints
held an advantage of about 20 runs, with three tail
wickets to fall. Then rain took a hand, wickets were
three a penny, and P.A.C. had no further chance.
The winners were again largely indebted to one Jose
and two Pellews, but the supply of these apparently
inexhaustible families must be getting near the end
now.
Killed in France, Kenneth Bloomfield, a
fine, stalwart Australian from Trundle. He wielded
a racquet for several years in Ma State country
championships, and with Clarence Todd won the
doubles in ’l5. After that, they discarded flannels
for khaki. Todd was among the seriously wounded
who returned to Sydney last week. Bloomfield was
only 23.
* * * *
Lieut. H. J. Nugent, who chucked up
umpiring for the tic. Football League to fill a
saddle in the Bth Light Horse, is home again. He
won the Military Cross for riding into action at the
head of his troop with a Hotchkiss gun in front of
him. This upset Abdul considerably. Also he was
one of the bright spirits who, after Romani, and just
before the advance on El Arish, turned the former
battlefield into a football ground for a match
between the 10th Light Horse and the 3rd Light
Horse Field Ambulance. Nugent umpired to the
complete satisfaction of the push, who reckoned that
a fair bloke like him deserved the Military Cross.
London Times, after having had a good
look-at Australian football, calls it “a game which,
while informal and rather scrambling, is undeniably
fast, and entertaining as a spectacle.” The point
that most astonished English eyes was the marking
of individual men. “Instead of anything like a
line-up in respective territories, the whole two teams
are scattered in apparent promiscuousness about the
ground, strolling in friendly couples.” But the
friendliness and promiscuousness were shed right
enough when the play began. It was “keen enough
from the start, and almost frenzied in the final
quarter.” A match between Billjims, of course—
Vies. v. S. Aus. ; the former won.
C. Miley, of Harrietville, near Bright
(Vic.), who has bitten through a 12-ineh log in
2osee., and claims the title of champion axeman of
the world, doesn’t chop wood for a living now, but
“travels in axes.” With easier going he has run to
flesh, but he still gets some dregs of fun out of
life. When he strikes a place where there is a little
“chop” on he gets into it, and as he looks soft and
stout the handicappers mostly give him a good start.
Then he unlimbers himself, and his log generally
drops just as the other chaps are worrying into the
first side.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “Fred M.,” who claims (B.
6/12/’l7) that a collie, after conceding 30 yards’
start to two greyhounds, led them to the hare, goes
on to say that the hare reached the escapes without
doubling. If that is so, I’m greatly interested to
know what it did when the collie arrived. For
centuries the “mechanics” of the greyhound have
been developed, under man’s watchful eye, for the
production of speed. The lumbering collie, on the
other hand, has never been asked to overhaul any-
thing faster than sheep. One might as well argue
that the average baker’s prad could beat a racehorse.
I once spent nine months rabbit-killing', during
which time I owned about 50 assorted dogs. For
speed very ordinary greyhounds and mongs. contain-
ing only a quarter-strain of hound simply outclassed
the rest of the pack, which included two thorough-
bred collies. The latter were chiefly remarkable for
knocking up easily. Can “Fred M.” give the year of
the alleged happening at Rooty Hill?
“Longtail” : “Fred M.’s” experience (B.
6/12/’l7) doesn’t carry him very far as a judge of
a greyhound's pace when he talks about a collie
giving a pair of the lanky fellows at Rooty Hill a
start of 30 yards and beating them to the "hare. I
have been ah ardent follower of the leash for 30
years and have never owned a greyhound that I
would not back againstr “Fred M.’s’’ collie for a
champagne supper. But I agree with him that,
while a greyhound would beat a horse over a dis-
tance of a few furlongs, in a matter of miles the
prad would be an easy first.
* * * *
"Rita S.”: This sho ild go amongst the
queer-eaten records. A mob of cattle that Peter
Rogers, a Rochester (tie.) drover, was escorting
towards Echuca quenched its thirst at a table-drain
of the receded flood-waters of the Campaspe. Whe l
they had emptied the muddy pot there were left at
the bottom hundreds of fine, gasping and wrigglin o,
carp, whose presence had not been suspected. Like
the other Peter my cobber filled his basket and
departed on his way rejoicing.
“Bill R.” : The juvenile Bananaland cane-
beetle hunter (B. 6/12/’l7) is not the only Aus-
tralian kiddy who makes use of flares to attract his
game. At Waliaga Lake aborigines’ station, South
Coast (N.5.W..), I have seen little darkies fill a
kerosene-tin with prawns that had been induced to
jump out on the sand to investigate the glare of a
bicycle lamp. At the same time some whites (I
was ore of them) were laboriouslv gathering a few
handfuls with a prawn-net near by.
* * * *
“Bull Ryan”: Parson Scott, just ap-
pointed to a country parish, was billed to preach at
n,l^7' ShiP 2 k away ' About five mdes out he
P .. ?nrK- a - P i b ’ and 1° hls Pnrprise l her e was an
exactly similar one about every mile, and he could
of e thP ° ther dw ?7 lln P’ Wearied with the sameness
ot the scenery, the frequency of the pubs and the
sti iking likeness to each other of the whiskered
bushmen lounging at each, he asked the distance to
Budgerj, and was astonished when he learned that
e was stlll 15 miles off. The circular racecourse
joined the road at the pub and followed it fnr „„
distance, and it being plainer than the bush trfi!
he had put in the afternoon driving round it traCk
The contest among Sydney bowling dubs
for the John \oung shield has been won this , S
by Manly. All the associated clubs take part in
competition to keep green the memory 0 f the
of the game” in X. S. Wales. The matches
drawn by ballot and the club winning on the
the greatest margin holds the shield. Cheltenham
won the first year, then Ryde, then Druinmoyne b
is a coincidence that the winning club each vear h
been drawn against the holder. On Saturday Manlv
beat Drummoyne by oo points. n v
AN INVITATION TO MOSES McSHORTODDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What price yer humble, Dicko Smith, in
putties girt, 6 uu "
With sand-blight in his optics, and much leaner
than he started, ltf
Round the 'Oly Land cavorting in three-quarters of
a shirt,
And imposin' on the natives ez one Dick the Lion
We are drivin’ out the infidel, we’re hittin’ ud the
Turk, 1 e
Same ez Richard slung his right across the Saracen
invader 1
In old days of which I’m readin’. Now we’re eettin’
in our work, s
’N’ what price me nibs, I ask yeh, ez a qualified
Crusader !
Ere I am a thirsty Templar in the fields of Pales-
tine
Where that hefty little fighter,’Bobbv Sable smit
the heathen,
And where Richard Coor de Lion trimmed the Mos-
lem good ’n’ fine,
’N’ he took the belt from Saladin, the slickest
Dago breathin’.
There’s no plume upon me helmet, ’n’ no red cross
on me chest,
’X’ so fur they- haven’t dressed me in a swankin’
load of metal;
We’ve no 'Oly Grail I know of, but we do our little
best
With a jamtin, and a billy, and a battered ole
mess kettle.
Quite a lot of guyver’s missin’ from our brand of
chivalry ;
We don't make a pert procession when we're movin’
up the forces;
We’ve no pretty, pawin’ stallions, ’n’ no pennants
flowin’ free,
’N’ no giddy, gaudy bedquilts make a circus of
the ’orses.
We 'most always slip the cattle ’n’ we cut out all
the dog
When it fairly comes to buttin’ into battle’s hectic
fever,
Goin’ forward on our wishbones, with our noses in
the bog,
’X' we ’eaves a pot iv blazes at the cursed unbe-
liever.
Fancy-dress them old Crusaders wore, and alwiz kep’
a band.
What ue wear’s so near to nothin’ that it's often
’ardly proper,
And we swings a tank iv iron scrap across the ’Olv
Land
From a duckie gun we nipped ashore the other
side of Jopper.
We ain't ever very natty, for the climate here is hot;
When it isn’t liquid mud the dust is thicker
than the vermin.
Ten to one our bold Xoureddin is some waddlin’
Turkish pot,
’X' the Saladin we’re on to is a snortin', red-eved
German.
But be’old the eighth Crusade, ’n’ Dicko Smith is in
the van,
Dicko Coor de Lion from Carlton what could teach
King Dick a trifle,
For he’d bomb his Royal Jills from out his baked-
pertater can,
Or he’d pink him full of leakage with a quaint
repeatin ’rifle.
We have sunk our claws in Mizpah, and Siloam is in
view.
By my ’alidom from Agra we will send the Faithful
reelin’!
Those old-timers botched the contract, but we mean
to put it through,
Knights Templars from Balmain, the Port, Monaro,
Nhill, and Ealin’.
We are wipin’ up Jerus’lem ; we were ready with a
hose
Spoutin’ lead, a dandy cleaner that you bet you
can rely on ;
And Moss Isaacs, Cohn, and Cohen, Moses, Offel-
bloom ’n’ those
Can all pack their bettin’ bags, and come right
home again to Zion.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


WHY WAIT TILL YOU GET
A THRASHING
before you learn to box?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path?
Why take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the
eyes of your fellows —through your inability to assert your rights when
the occasion occurs ?
Why not learn to defend yourself, and become a REAL man—a man
always to be reckoned with —looked up to —and respected?
1 TEACH BOXINQ BY POST.
Teach you how to take your part—how to stand
up and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow
who dares to insult or belittle yor.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly
art of self-defence —teach you every “hit,” “move”
and “stop” known to the world’s leading boxers.
My instructions are very simple to follow, and
you will find my lessons both interesting and bene-
ficial. You will be both pleased and surprised at
the rapid progress you will make under my per-
sonal guidance. Write to-day for my interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which
describes my methods, terms, etc. Just write your
name and address across this advertisement and send
it to me, with three penny stamps for postage. I
will know what you mean.
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
662 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY
A Most Acceptable Gift for Him
A Box of Good
Havana Cigars.
<*K **
\
Partagas
“Petit Due
Extra”
Box of 50.
24/-
Partagas
“Conchas
Bouquets”
Box of 25,
12/-
To the Cigar Smoker the brand
“ Partagas” means Supreme Quality.
N.S.W. Inter-State.
Postage :50 Petit Due 6d. 9d.
25 Bouquets 6d. 9d.
A. KEBBLEWHITE,
Tobacco, Cigar and Cigarette
Importer,
“The Old Established House,”
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COMFORT
OF POWER
«
m
SPi
\\ V V>
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
Catalogue " D " with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
PTV.
LTD.
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
The Taxi-Driver
Can Tell You
that National Benzine shows the biggest mileage per gallon
of all spirits at the end of the day’s run. He can tell you
Sis authoritatively and definitely, because his machine
registers his mileage right down to a fine ii action,
tell you, too, that
You Can Always Rely on
NATIONAL
benzine
start, all
to give vou a “quick and lively
the speed he wants, and plenty of rese ve
power to carry over the stiffest hill.
National is NOT a mixed spirit, but
A Consistently Pure Benzine
of Powerful Driving Force,
clean in combustion,
and consequently very
economical. Which-
ever you run —Car,
Commercial Vehicle or
Motor-cycle—you’ll get
best results from
using “National” Ben-
zine.
Obtainable
All Garages and
Storekeepers.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 3ridge St., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
o
o
o
filllpltggg
8
?k
c
v«sa *»r«*«aa» fflsr
?3«V
'■'i:
m
m
■ivX&ZSZ’
\m
mm
-. '?n
am
a
§P®SP
hP
ass
P?s@t
S/VS
«*Sd*SF«
wssia
KSCft
XV*.'
T
7*/
: :,
2"Ss3B®£Sfc
sm&Bm&.
P>s,
■£> ->
i
cin>«
SSS*
i
\
fji
M <%*&«
W
■:m
im
-
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
for
Chest Complaints
Wasting Disorders
Price 2/6 bottle
Mb
The “Stockman”
Riding
A
Vi 4
sa#**
Per
fIWiM
•w*
**
SA
Ys
A/,
/*■
r
<63!
■w
ainable
in
is
fail
Don
to
ISIS,
alf at
order -- We hati&“Ypur” Size
S«Sf
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty.
- “Outfitter# by Mail” ~~
244-254 Flinders Street.-Melbourne.
jjlly constructed
strong,- - fully*
Reasoned Calf, with Elas-
tic Sides and j Double
. Tags|'Dust and Water-
proof; light, comfortable,
serviceable; easy to pull..
“Stock*-
is ..a. .boot that no
Australian h o ra era a n
- should be "without. Ob-
tainable in all sizes.


BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE-, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO ant OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received p.rove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
«£
4
Crown
Dea T ,
Government
Purchase
of
Rabbit
SKins.
Prices lOd. to 27d. lb.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY. LTD.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR QAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear
xlear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Sate for
children.
Carter's!
IITTLE
IVER
I PILLS.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
The Most Perfect
Garment Marker
Makes Marking-Ink Silly.
' accept no '
SUBSTITUTES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
12 dozen, 76 ; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
[ F anybody in Australasia charges you more than
* 6d. for a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. io 214 George Street, Sydney, and it will
be posted to you for one year. To any address
abroad, £ 1 10s. per annum.
a
l!n f
=2?
£
7/
m
O'*
&
US
h 5
r»ks
EK
B.
Cbe
vcrp
CDina for Christmas
A
You need no longer worry about what to give your friends. Give
them all ONOTO pens. You can buy them daintily packed and
labelled, ready fcr posting at the shop.
All you have to do is to write the address, and stamp.
An ONOTO is a gift that is sure to please. It is the fountain pen
that fills itself, cleans itself, never leaks, and never scratches, It is
a model of simplicity.
The Onoto is Butigh_Mad£, and is guaranteed by its makers.
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN-NEVER LEAKS.
Price 146 and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation
purposes ; also ’ONOTO Valveless for those who do not want a Self-hilling
Safety Pen 10/8 upwards of all stationers, jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers : Thos. Df. La Rue & Co. Ltd., Bunhill Row. London, E.C.
Managing Agents: Norman Baker_& Sydney,
c ‘ The ki"rf ibat
Jills n.c f”
c^ry
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health ; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its historv
pHE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
2/
bottle
per
2/
per bottle
ALU
BRITISH FOR
Of all good Chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia.
H ' * W ‘ GREAR i 287-289, Clarence Street, Sy
ropru. ors, . IFFJTHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 63 Deausgate Arcade, Manchester
ISO YEARS*
Wholesale Distributing Agents.
Street, Syd" e **
•, England.
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
p' 0R .SALE.—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
bodie^Bl™" 2 stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE 'WHITE 10
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES, ~v .
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome youn, refuse <j,
USE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable onu
Inspection invited. vsff,
KIRNBANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, - ■ •
“D.F.”: A curious custom prevailed at
the old church at Cambridge (Tas.) : the
sexes were kept separate, males on one side
and females on the other. Maybe it is
changed now; but the flock used to be sorted
out very carefully. No one seemed to know
why. but it had always been that way.
Harry Lauder is a busy man these days.
Besides “carrying on” in the old way he is
out after a million “for the Scottish soldiers
and sailors who come back disabled.” Rose-
bery is president of the committee, which
proposes to do just the things that the
Amelioration Committees have been trying
to do in Australia.
“D.F.”: As far back as 1822 Australia
exported SO gallons of wine. The conti-
nent's first vine-growers and
were two French prisoners of war, Antoine
Landrien and Francois de Riveau. who were
sent out in 1800. Acting-Governor King
gave them £6O a year each, and set them to
work near Parramatta, where they soon had
7000 vines sprouting. They made 40 gallons
of wine in 1803, but. according to King, they
knew very little about the job. and turned
out poor stuff.
“Chops”: Governor King got busy on the
beef barons long before Premier Ryan, of
Queensland, thought of fixing the price of
meat. Ip a despatch of December 20, 1804,
King observed: —
Notwithstanding the censure which I see has been
bestowed upon me in the public prints in England
for interposing mv authority in reducing the exor-
bitant price of animal food, yet I consider it my
duty as chief magistrate to regulate in an equitable
manner the price of food as it becomes more plenti-
ful, and not to sanction a continuation of the high
prices which the cupidity of one or two great
stockholders thinks proper to impose on the in-
habitants.
The prices, as fixed on October 25. ISO 4.
were: Beef, Is. 9d. lb.; mutton, Is.; pork.
Byd- King anticipated another present-day
controversy by forbidding the killing of
female stock.
“Fitzroy ': An attack of double pneu-
monia cut short an interesting experiment
taken in hand by the Anglican Mission
people in Rockhampton. Half a dozen years
ago St. Paul’s got the missionaries in New
Guinea to send over a twelve-year-old native
youth. He was apprenticed to a jobbing
firm with a view to being turned out a full-
blown printer, and then lie was to be shipped
back to the islands to initiate his brethren
into the mysteries of printer’s ink. The
youth proved adaptable, and could bold his
own with the best of the printers’ devils in
the district when it came to shifting a
mutton quad or piece of broken composition
surreptitiously in the direction of an
opponent.
“Newey" : What about smiting the makers
of some of these oil engines with a legal
spanner when the apparatus does not give off
its rated horse-power? Nothing is so elusive
as “horse-power.” There is “horse-power,”
“brake horse-power.” “maximum brake horse-
power. "working load brake horse-power”
and “nominal horse-power,” but the new-
chum buyer finds all this out only after he
has been skinned. .Tones aud Co. sell a 6-
h.p. engine which will do more useful work
than Smith Brothers’ 7-h.p. engine. The
reason is that Jones uses “working load
b.h.p.,” while the Smiths, going on safer
lines, prefer “maximum b.h.p.” It shouldn’t
be possible to humbug the public in this way.
The present loose system merely makes rob-
bery easy.
“Copabella”: A man with a queer kink of
obstinacy has been disclosed in a Melbourne
suburban court. He owed a moneylender £4.
and either couldn’t or wouldn't pay. A
default-order was made, the debtor not
appearing to defend his case. A fraud sum-
mons was next served, and the debtor fined
20s. for refusing to attend court and prove
his inability to pay. A fresh summons went
out: and he mid 40s. fine rather than obey.
A further defiance cost him another 40s'
which he paid also. The fact that he had
thus paid £5 in fines gave unique proof that
lie had “means and ability to pay” the
original £4. so the debt-order was granted in
his absence. Ho had meantime allowed
265. 6d. in stamp-fees to accumulate, and
had become liable for 935. costs, and the
option of two months’ gaol. What a dinkum
conscientious objector a man like that would
make!
“Rio’ : My friend the sergeant gets one
past the regimental censor:—
I can’t say I'm glad to belong to this lot. The
C.O. is an old bluffer who doesn’t mind what von are
doing as long as you have one hand standing bv to
salute with. But that is as far as discipline goes.
The X.C.O.’s call the men by their Christian and
nicknames and the men return the compliment
I’ve been one month with the unit, and yesterday a
staff-sergeant asked me why I didn’t ' call him
“Perce” as all the others did. I told him I hadn’t
been used to calling my superiors by their first
names on duty. He said, “Oh, when you’re in Rome
do as Rome does.” I had occasion to go to the Q.M. (a
lieutenant) and of course called him “sir " i„
reply he called me “matey” and told me that address-
ing a man as “Sir” or “Major” or “Colonel” never
" on a Hanky war yet, and wasn’t going to win this
\ou see by this what our discipline is like.
Doesn’t this light up the recent Bulletin
discussion on the value of saluting as an aid
to discipline !
A MISSING FRIEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Poor Summer's lost!
Somewhere about a poor, distracted maiden.
With woolly clouds, and flowers and sunshine laden,
Armed with goloshes and old Winter’s gamp,
Is sadly splashing through the endless damp.
Her name is Summer and her eyes are blue.
You’ll keep a good look-out for her, won't you?
Poor Summer’s lost!
Will someone go and find the silly flapper?
Lord knows at what strange doors she is a tapper!
Tell the North AVind his name’ we’ll ever bless
If in her ear he'll whisper our address.
Tell her to hurry over land and sea
Before full-bosomed Autumn hands the tea.
N.S.W
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


' t
M
■
■ :
I
m
m
: .
if
* ■'
**w
rfiS
.
3Sj
:
■-\
«£■
-
' -
®5
<iwJt
»■ -
3
<
■ r
•-.-
EM
*R
-m-
-* ■
mz
m %
:
■■SS
.
/
r
af
. :
; -:■•■
m
m
... .
EM?
•A-
®i :
tv.
'-■¥:v
i
>.
I
■
USSi:
**■
:
Wl
..
5
:
r
v -..
V.
.
•v-
EK Vv.
lliiiiiis
££? '2K.
&£
a
V*;y ;• V "'fV■
i■■ -i ' -.fc : r f-/Z’. LJtih. 'l^suzu..-
sm
I ‘teW
SH
■ ■
; -■
.VV
. ■ .MEM
V -
-3 :
.
&3g
... ••
»s
SX
■ ;
:
. S
*
A Business Man in Fairyland
Tired and worn! That is the state of the average
business man when he reaches home at night.
Too weary to go out —too indifferent to seek the
relaxation which he needs and would enjoy.
For such men, the Beale Player-Piano provides an easy step into
a fairyland of real pleasure. All the favorites in light operatic
music, ragtime, folk songs or old time ballads can instantly
be played You arrange your own programme and payit as
your mood dictates. Bedtime comes in surprisingly quick time-
bringing with it the sweet slumber of a mind refreshed.
INFORMAL CONCERTS HELD DAILY
ASK. TO HEAR A FAVORITE PIECE
Head Office Si Showroom*'
333 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
eccxe
LTP
&
Factory •
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
ANNANDALE
i /~ n VICTORIA- Maples in all Melbourne suburbs,
Branches at Bathurst. Orange. Li,more, N ej ca#,le - : John Evan, Ltd .Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros-. Hobart ; Maples. Maryborough; . Flinders Street. Townsv.lle: Rockhampton.
QUEENSLAND : 90-92 Queen St..
IT


TASMANIA
Jl “The Playground
/ of Australia/'
:: The Ideal ::
Holiday Resort.
The Angler's
Paradise.
All Information, Guidebooks,
etc., from Tasmanian
Government Tourist
Branches in Mainland
Capitals :
Sydney: 262 George St.
Melbourne:
59 William St.
Brisbane: 41 Queen St.
Perth: 50 William St.
The HOBART and
LAUNCESTON Bureaux
arrange all local trips & book
to all parts of Tasmania.
ACCOMMODATION
ARRANGED.
Illustrated Guidebook
(containing Accommodation List),
3d.; posted 6d.
E. T. EMMETT, Director,
TAS. GOVT. TOURIST BUREAU,
Treasury Buildings, HOBART.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
•5*
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone many times as efficient
, . , anti powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phona 00. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Hansen’s Rheumatic R^y
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) C. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesftle : ELLIOTT BROB-, SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPBITT, MELBOURNE.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, If in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCKJUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for rider to
be thrown on to head of saddle, while it
also has all the benefits of stock kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
comfortable seat. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
3B Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£B/15/ - Complete, or £B/5/ - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
The “Bulletin’
Stock Saddle
AND
The "Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
°l , m ° St Popular Addles we make
They both have pigskin |eat, the
panel, with leather down sides, long flans ~'u i
girth straps. They are Uth fitted «S
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle “
£ 7/0/6 Complete.
£6/15/6 without Stirrups.
€6/9/6 without Stirrups
an d without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway stati™
in N. S. Wales. 7 10n
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post 1/.
Saddle Cloth, 6/6;
K550.—Fine Diamond Cluster Brooch, set
in Platinum and 15ct. Gold.
Price £9/10/-
M218.—18ct. Gold
and Platinum
Ring, set four
Diamonds.
Price £5/5/-
J195. —Fine Diamond
set Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum.
•Price £7/10/-
Larger size, £ 10 /10 / -
D6070.—Neat Brooch, Platinum and 15ct.
Gold, set two Finest Diamonds and one
Whole Pearl, £6 / 10 /-. Smaller Stones, £5.
All Diamonds, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
upwards.
D9916,
Write for our Latest
Catalogue of
Engagement Rings
and Jewellery Gifts.
D9916.—Circle Brooch,
Diamond Setting, very
neat, £4/4/-
The Gift of
Your Choice,
if bought from STEWART DAW-
SON’S, will be indeed “a joy for
ever” by reason of its high-grade
character and dependable quality.
We are fortunate in possessing
such a splendid selection of Dia-
mond Rings and Jewellery. Make
Stewart Dawson’s your headquart-
ers for
Christmas and New Year Gifts.
ST EWART
DAWSONS,
412 George Street, Sydney.
-m
Support the Motherland’s Industries
—and your own Country’s Products
rffrigH ,L *- U!LJ
Quality Stockings and Socks
for Ladies, Children & Men
Are manufactured from pure Australasian wool
in Leicester, England, by workpeople who have
inherited the art from generations of the world’s
best hosiery makers.
Insist on Jason Stockings and Socks —which are
all-wool, and of soft, silky finish. See the Jason
Tab on every pair. Drapers and Outfitters everywhere.
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Entf. _
Aa 60
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that M E MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you 9 .JL tt t
let the Ravisher of Belgium w%n
Uitina a handf
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Brumby: Too poor in thought and rough
in expression... .D.F.M.: Tender enough; but not
our style... .Plevna: It wants better handling, and is
worth it.... John Q.: Take the insane thing away.
E.F.C.: Very rough... .C.J.W.: “Billie the Darkie”
has no interest for man or beast. .. .Macko: Too
restricted in its appeal.... Trion: You have a nice
style:—
Tinkle and tinkle
The little drops sprinkle,
Over the brown earth
Kindling glad mirth
Spreading a boon worth
Want us to guess the missing word ?. .. . J.M.: Coal
yarn too slight....Oyo: Those bells don’t say enough.
. ...A.H.: “Wine” is an awful production. Both
grammar and metre are drunk... .M.D.: Too far off
our beat... .No Name: “Old Joe” is not up. . . .F.J.:
Well, here's a sample:—
The cream of the armies of Freedom
Have been lost in their glorious cause,
But still the struggle continues,
With Democracy still to the fore.
Her courage still has unshaken
.4s in the strenuous days of yore.
. ...W.W.: “Call of the Spring” is commonplace
except in form, which is irregular enough for the
wildest originality... .S.G.: You picked another
man’s worst rhyme and wrote a set of verses to
match it....F.C.: Pretty awful attempt.... E.M.E.:
Not up... .E.A.R.: Dead verses. .. .A.E.G.: Lump
and bump to repeat in dull, ungrammatical verse
what the daily paper said last Week. .. .N.F.S.: It’s
a possible theme; but it would want fine handling.
....A.1.A.: Not much of an idea; and the verse
stumbles too often... .E.J.S.: “Haunted House” goes
rather heavily.... Deirdre: Wants better telling....
G.M.T.: The only way to discover whether a story is
suitable or not is to send it along for inspection. ...
G. : “Undertaker” yarn doesn’t grip. Anyhow,
this is Australia, and why introduce the American
language and the British jest?. .. .F.K.E.: Angling
stuff not our style... .L.L.: Not up... .M.C.S.:
Persiah-cat insanity rejected... JG.J.E.: “Camou-
flage” won’t d 0... .N.A.E.: Why don’t you watch
this column? As far as we can remember the “Hell
Child” was rejected. “Rondel” is very nearly good
enough... .A.K.E.: Sing it softly to something in
the Zoo. .. .Overlander: It’s sorrowful business....
McE.: Not up. .. .Panoptes: Heaven forgive y0u....
H. : Not strong enough to battle through.... B.
Bluegum : The “Sonnet” is rotten. .. . J.H.: Not nearly
up. .. .Broken-hearted F.: Cheer up! The new
singer has as good a chance as the old if the stuff
is there. .. .G.D.M.: Not much freshness about that.
. ...C.G.: Your verses walk coldly and with a
mincing gait... .R.A.F.: The verses have no lift
in them. .. .G.P.M.: Feeble stuff. .. .Sequestrum:
Slight and weak K.S.: Not up D.R.: We don’t
reprint stories.... E.P.: Rough stuff without skill or
striking thought... .8.P.: Good intention, but poor
performance... .M.S.: “Jawmill” held an idea; but
the workmanship is crude. .. .R.H.: Very lame stuff.
....Princess: Send it to him. Verse as lumpy as
that would be something worth while in the way of
loverly reprisal W.H.H.: Please take note of the
following facts: This isn’t a “colony”; we don’t
reprint; the verse you send is calamitous. .. .L.M.M.:
Verse clumsy, though you seem to have some word-
sense and c010r.... Frank Person: Interesting if
you’d told us where the thing i 5.... Traveller:
Bishop Golding Bird, Kalgborlie, went in 1914;
Archbishop Riley, this year; Bishop Long hopes to
leave shortly.... White and Red: Young woiVan, this
is a dangerous paper to take liberties with. Have
given your address to the Religious Editor....
H.0.E.: Don’t know the temperature nor the method
of the Yankee “cubicle bed” for growing potatoes.
“Spud Sneaker,” who wrote a par. on the scheme
recently, might enlighten you.... Eric S. (M.L.).:
Samples are not up ; but you should have some in-
teresting copy of the old days in that district....
Bellerive: Right on the nail, as usual: —
A CHRISTMAS-DAY TRAGEDY.
The bells did loudly pealeth,
'Twas sacred Christmas day,
When towards a humble cottage
A wretched man did stray ;
AVith a latchkey he did enter,
And the bells had ceased to chime,
AA’hen he fled from out the cottage,
From the grim scene of he’s crime;
To the police he did surrender,
For the fierce murder of he’s wife;
He’s name she had dishonored,
And payed the forfeit with her life.
To the law he did appealeth,
To befriend he’s little Boy,
Prepared to faceth justice^—
For the soul he did destroy.
. ...A. J.M.: AA’rite Under-Secretary for Agriculture.
....Pat: In “Hits, Skits and Jingles,” by W. T.
Goodge (published by The Bulletin). Try Angus
and Robertson Fred James: The less said about
that the better... .A.B. (Shanghai): Thanks; keep
the flag flying Signals (Palestine): Not worth
while bothering about; ’luck. #
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.C.: Good chestnut; poor drawing... .G.W.P.:
Out in every direction. Improve your drawing.. .
G.S.: A ery rough but spirited. Some sporting paper
might look at it kindly R.Y.: Dismal little draw-
ings C.W.: Can’t use it K.U.F.: Too late
and too sketchy... .D.S.: Muddy ink, feeble
draughtsmanship A.G.: Decent try. Keep going.
L.A.S.: You don’t make a fist of it R.s.:
Painfully wooden M.R.: Plain boiled idea....
A.D.P.: Study hard and find a less smudgy method.
R.M.: No place for it... .F.G.N.: Cannot do as
you suggest.
“MirabeJla”: Some time ago a youth, after
having undergone the usual State-school
course, got a first job with a chemist who
found him so dense that he couldn't weigh the
simplest quantities correctly. He next inter-
viewed a bank manager, who put him through
an elementary catechism with such poor
results that when the boy’s mother called to
know why her son wasn’t good enough for the
job she had to be told that the lad could
spell nor figure decently,
said she. “what can I do with
n . j , h lm a coal-lumper for a
while, said the manager, “and then a mem-
ber of Parliament.” Now comes the point
Six weeks or ,so later the young genius
possessed a matriculation certificate on
winch he was able to take-the position of
clerk in the office of an X-rate solicitor Whst
precautions are taken by public examination
officials to prevent learned persons sitting
for exams, in the names of absent duffers*


w
:■
L ' >
DjLS
N
NS
J^T
311
N.
U(
M 2
j|o!s
kS
Saji
110
)1
\
)1»
»i
w
)11l
nivJi!
.» t
y
p
>**£;
M!
w?
C 5
=Nr
><>
tc?
)"•)
tip*:*
Na
H ,1
ar
V
y§fi
n
-n
=H
i —l
m
jwa
&
XX
r
?W
hi
®fi
at;
“P 1
r n -lU
y,
i i
ry
0
r.Ok\r—
(•;
Commonwealth of Australia,
Houses of Parliament,
Melbourne, Vic.
For Reliable and Economical Service
We know that a certain
proportion of Goodyear
users buy this tyre for
reasons of comfort, ap-
pearance or security.
But we know also that
the overwhelming bulk
of Goodyear users buy
it for reasons strictly
practical in nature.
Undoubtedly the cause
of Goodyear Tyres being
more than ordinarily re-
liable is the manner in
which they are built.
Their construction rep-
resents the sum of all
tyre-making knowledge,
as we have learned it.
Not by accident or luck did
the Goodyear laboratories de-
velop theTyre-making machine,
the All-Weather Tread, the
Rubber Rivet Breaker Strip,
and other Goodyear features.
Not by chance did the Good-
year Fabric Mills in Connecti-
cut produce a fabric stronger
than anything of its kind the
world had ever known before.
No—these improvements were
evolved slowly and laboriously.
They were brought into being
to insure the reliability of
Goodyear Tyres.
But these improvements alone
could not enforce the full
reliability of Goodyear Tyres—
they are enhanced quality of
materials and workmanship,
and by a system of inspection
guaranteeing both of these.
Ask the Goodyear Service Station
Dealer near you what he does to
support this goodness built in
Goodyear Tyres, after the tyres
have been put in actual use.
He will be glad to tell you what he
does, and what Goodyear Tyres,
Goodyear Tubes and Goodyear
Tyre-Saver Kits do, to help realise
what you and every other sensible
motorist seeks and desires—-reliable
and economical tyre service.
Goodyear Tyres Heavy Tourist Tubes and “Tyre Saver” Accessories are easy to get from Goodyear Service Station Dealers everywhere.
THE
HEAD
GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
OFFICE: 231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
BRANCHES ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
Now and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Lor all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.-City 4246, 2 ,4, 6 Spring Street.
48lo! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) V
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMB ALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Dec. 26
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 29.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 2.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 5.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
"Passengers only.
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Dec. 28
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lit. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES: E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: llrisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —-Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
lllt.AI) OFFICE - BRISBANE
Hranches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ...£2,000 000
Capital Paid Up £1,195!6T9
Reserve Fund '. £105,000
Directors MAßK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman ■
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. : FRANK X
Y'ARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SY'DNEY (Coiner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE aiul WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. ~
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. F.tc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,'“S3.ME
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.’’
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Fiva and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital - *
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Inability -
WALES.
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Directors:
£10,684,720
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidlev, Esq.
Heat L9* ce— George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
330 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
;L_RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Commoiui’caltl'Jik JSankßustralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
General Banking: Business p ;r n *r p \,
Open
for all
. w ••ivapa
Cities and Towns of Australia. London. Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cal>le__ rem l ltances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
Ranking 8 rf o^ and collected Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world!
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
fix^d’enni'ira 8 ' 1 .*V n?do ”' a " d abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities. V
Saving's Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over Interest at o°/
2600 Agencies at Post Offices P er annum %
in Australia and Papua. up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
KnL_pe..r 0. W .... J„ t , m 6 DSNISO.V MILLER. Oorernor j
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
t i offi nranchcs ihrougliont New South Wales and Queensland
London Office: 18 Bxrchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England- The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited. ’
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TH E A D ELAIDE S TEA M^HIPrn
(LIMITED). UU «
EXPUESS PASSENGER SERVICE to , , ,
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLANn
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S-S. PARINGA, Friday, Dec . 21
S.S. KUPARA, Friday, Dec. 28
S.S. MORIALTA, J an . 5.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy
t ll e S fi|7port SS o a f g call T ivit e h S o £ £££»
on all services subject to conditio.,*
ascertained on application at the Comp, 2 s nm“ U
« S. VUILL & CO.. LTD ‘
Age,lta ‘ 6 STltEE'f. SYDNEY
Huddart Parker Lin
<OOO tons, sails every four weeks from’ 0,.a
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia , S j dney > 1
as advertised in daily n"wlpajer Hce ve
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND
Regular sailings between Sydney and
New Zealand ports and vice versa™
be obtained on application. ‘ partlcula rs
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA
weeks 1 " Ilo ' Ja,t and versa eve™ th
weeks, s.s. Rotomahana between • ln
Launceston twice weekly. Melbourne
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER UMITEi
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street,Sydne,
Frequent Sailing
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME RI C A—C AN A D
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:— OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 221
Federal & Shire Line
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia an
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
barge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Deck
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIItELES
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDOf
ALD, HAMILTON & 'CO., Brisbane; McILWItAITI
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne an
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH k CO. LTD., Adelaide
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
■pHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGEIS
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COIT
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction wit
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillunibah
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence River!
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to
date liners for SYDNEY’, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and ealoon on
steamer, £6 11s. ; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltcl
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
F.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
r.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
5.5. “ WYANDRA” ...4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip A.
he enjovment of beautiful scenery should s
ne A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company s steameu P
up-to date arrangements for convenience a
irt, making travel safe, easy and P‘ easa
•st port of call, First and Second Saloon i---- , fl
iterchangeable with all Inter-State ComPf ’ j ( .
ith the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the * s ee
trticulars on application. For dates of -
aily Papers.
URNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITM
Agents, II BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting
A. should read the British r
.sian, 6d. weekly—an illustrate
ontaining mail and cable news p uro pe
ralia and news of Australians i j„.
nd at home. Australians ar ? c T f AtA sU* v
ited to visit the British Aus
tending Room at the Offices, 11° the
orn. London. W.C., where they can see
ome papers, meet their friea ? ’ w jthoirf
elephone, and obtain informant)
harge.


Christmas outings
demand a Kodak
Kodak picture-making is one of the
joys of Christmas that you should
look forward to—and arrange for.
A Kodak adds interest to everything you
do; it multiplies your pleasures; it stores
up unfailing memories of your travels,
your holidays and outings, and is remark-
ably easy to use.
There are Autographic Kodaks from 30/= to £l5/2/=,
and Brownies from 6 /= to 52/6.
Give Kodaks and Brownies to your friends.
The 3a Folding Autographic Kodak is excellent for
postcard pictures— x inches. Price £5/10/ =
The 2c Autographic Kodak Junior, takes pictures 2| x
4| inches. Price 55/ =
Ask for the new beautifully illustrated booklet: “All
outdoors invites your Kodak.” Free from all Kodak
dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth
St., Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St.,
Rockhampton; 346 Argent St.. Broken Hill; Dixon St., also corner Lambton
Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart
St., Dunedin, N.Z.; and Christchurch, N.Z.
—-
7
m
'..-I p
- ■*
.
<•■•> * <*
1
“CLIFTON” COLLARS,
Square Corners, I fin,
and 2in. deep.
R. HUNT & CO.,
Shirtmakers and Specialists
in Gentlemen's Outfitting,
314 George Street, Sydney,
We are displaying: an Exclusive Selection of
Spitalfields Silks
FOR SPECIAL SHAPE
TIES TO ORDER.
Prices from 5/6 to 21/-
Many Smart Designs also in Stock.
We are also featuring- the Newest Designs in
BATSWING BOW TIES,
Stock Lengths, 32in., 34in., 35in,
SILK KNITTED TIES,
4/6, 5/6, 8/9, 15/6.
X
1
98
“BRANKSOME” COLLARS,
Round Corners, Cut Away,
I fin., 2in* deep*
Price, 1 1/6 per doz.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed: New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New Dining-room, seat 150 persons; New Kitchen;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sys-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms & Lavatories.
Missing: Friends.
JAMES EDWARD ALLISON, last heard
of at Largs, near Maitland, about eight
or nine years ago, formerly of Copalaba in
the Wynnum District, Queensland, or any
person acquainted with his whereabouts, is
invited to communicate with the under-
signed. The person inquired for would now
be about 55 years of age.
T. W. GARRETT.
Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office, Sydney.
■ J ERBERT JAMES GEPP. formerly of
■ Adelaide, Broken Hill and Sydney,
Hairdresser and Tobacconist (or anyone
having knowledge of his whereabouts), is
requested to communicate with
GLYNN PARSONS, McEWIN & NAPIER,
Solicitors, Adelaide.
THE, CHANDLER SlX—Price £sBs
CHANDLER RECORDS ARE OWNERS’ RECORDS.
Not to our knowledge has a professional Motor-car Driver ever made a record with n ca , Y nr
SERvici LL thc THOUSAXDS of < "™ m of chandler sixes, r
ecords that count —RECORDS OF SATISFACTORY
SPECIAL GEAR-RATIO FOR
DEMONSTRATING PURPOSES.
What ANY CHANDLER SIX does, YOUR CHANDLER SIX will do
The Manufacturer of ONE Six can make just as bie CLAIMS *.
CA Ve« I i ™0 E OTHFT snf rS ' N „ O \P' AIMS ; , Manufacturer of aßy other d,. But THE CHANDLER IS A FACT-CAR. not a CLAIM-
There is NO OTHER which will puli tart l°T, de “*“ d ‘ h “ the CHANDLER,
There is NO OTHER so economical in operation. greater ease.
There is NO OTHER which embodies.in its design and construction t „
There is NO OTHER of more beautiful body-lines or greXr Gdfng n comfort ny of High-Grade, High-Priced Motor*
greater riding comfort.
SEVEN-PASSENGER TOURING CAR. FOUR-PASSENGER ROADSTER.
BOOK NOW AND SAVE INCREASED PRICE.
-cars.
CHOOSE THE FACT-CAR FOR YOUR CAR.
Telephone— City 8862.
MARCUS CLARK (& CO. LTD.
Gara S* and 162 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
A T POVERTY POINT.
“Jean S.”: A. E. Greenaway was the
outstanding personality of the lan Alaclaren
season just closed at Melbourne King’s. A
graceful Claudio in “Aluch Ado” and a bold,
purposeful Laertes in “Hamlet,” he was
not less satisfactory when he groped cheerily
for sobriety as the banal Squire Chivy in
“David Garrick.” But his best studies, to
my mind, were his Jaques in “As You Like
It” and his Cassius in “Julius Ctesar.” As
Jaques he was more theatrically conven-
tional in appearance than O. Asche, who was
dingy in his attire and added to the raw
realism of his manner a deep bass diction
that seemed in keeping with his rough
fashion of munching an apple and emptying
a horn of wine. Greenaway was the slighter
type of hermit leaning to pure mentality
and possessing more felicities of speech and
bearing than hefty Oscar could ever show.
As for his Cassins, Greenaway revealed the
philosophic anarchist whose rebellious spirit
only comes to action in the most favorable
circumstances. He was the kind of con-
spirator who gave terrible import to Caesar’s
comment on him: “He thinks too much.”
The actor made this line go home to every-
one who was watching him closely. All the
time you could see his brain working.
“J.F.H.” (London) : At the Coliseum I
heard Alyra Christian, billed simply as “The
Australian Soprano.” One of the best of
the bunch, she realised her poster very satis-
factorily ; with a rich and powerful voice of
good range and sympathetic quality she
filled the vast auditorium easily. She got
plenty of applause for her treble contribution
to the programme, and she has evidently
gained the confidence of the magnates of
Yarietyland, too, as she is booked into 1919.
Alyra is a native of Alelbourne, like Oswald
Stoll, the boss of the Coliseum, and she got
her chance from Oscar Asche during the run
of “Kismet.” Someone was suddenly wanted
one night to do a solo, and Alyra made a hit
as the emergency girl. But brother and
CRUICKSSHANK.
brother-in-law are clergymen, and they ob-
jected to her taking up the stage profession-
ally. However, as usual, opposition was
vain, and ambition triumphed.
“S.P.Q.R.”: It happened at one of lan
Maclaren’s performances of “Julius Caesar.”
Behind me sat a drowsy man who breathed
beer and repeatedly bemoaned the dearth of
“tarts” in the play. The assassination
cheered him for a time. “They stoushed him a
treat!” he whispered. Then he leaned for-
ward and moaned in my ear, “When do they
swing the tart out over the mob, mate?
I’m after a slipper.” I told him it would
happen towards the end of the act, and he
fell asleep like a tired child on Christmas
Eve.
“Glen Huntly”: Encouraged by the
habitual benevolence of press and public,
actors are becoming steadily slacker in their
work. Even the job of memorising their
parts seems too great a strain for many. In
both “Hamlet” and “Julius Cfesar” lan
Maclaren spoke many lines that Shakspeare
never penned. On the opening night of the
“Caesar” revival he was specially annoying,
completely spoiling the rhythm of much of
William’s blank verse by his use of unlovely
synonyms, and twice during the forum scene
he came to a dead stop. On the first night
of “Airs. Dot” in Alelbourne several mem-
bers of the cast, including Graham Browne
and Frank Harvey, messed up some of their
speeches badly, and in several other recent
shows the prompter has been a leading mem-
ber of the cast. That an actor should be
word-perfect is surely the least the public is
entitled to demand. That he frequently
isn’t is probably due to the deeply-rooted
belief of many histrions that people go
to the theatre because they are interested in
actors, but don’t care 2d. for mere plays.
“J.F.H.”: An old-time wealthy Austra-
lian wool-grower had the idea of starting an
Australian theatre in London for the pro-
duction of Australian plays. But the pro-
ject never materialised, and he lost his
Melbourne Tivoli.
Marie King-Scott as
Mrs. Dixon, of Okla-
homa.
money in rfinning
a newspaper or
some other merci-
less absorber of
cash. However,
after many years,
London does look
like having a per-
manent Australian
theatre-boss in
Oscar Asche, who
may be reasonably
expected to regard
an y Australian
plays submitted to
him with a much
more friendly eye
than that of the
average theatrical
dictator. Asche has
now been in pos-
session of the late
Sir Herbert Tree’s
splendid theatre,
Ilis Majesty’s, for
more than a year,
and is very likelv to become its permanent
tenant.
•fust-dead Captain W. G. Bentley, master
of N.S.W. Police Band, used to waggle a
stick in front of the Coldstream Guards.
He came to a better country about 20 years
ago, and for a good while conducted the
N. S. Wales State Military Band. He was
a fine reed instrumentalist, and composed a
good deal of military music with a tune in it.
“Animated movies” were pioneered by an
Australian artist, Alex. Laing (“Cruick-
sliank”), well-known in vaudeville in con-
nection with the Australian statuesque
beauty, La Milo. Many American artists,
however, claim to be the originators of the
“movie cartoon.” Windsor McKay, of Jew
York, turned out the first of the present
form of animated cartoons in 1910. but the
Australian produced a sheaf of British
Cabinet caricatures for London Alhambra in
1906. Prior to the U.S.A. declaring war
against Germany, Cruickshank had been
busy around New York State in the interests
of the British War Office. With La Milo as
chauffeur he daily patrolled a munition dis-
trict examining bridges and culverts with
the aid of a short telescopic ladder. Inci-
dentally, he is credited with having un-
earthed one of the most dangerous Hun wire-
less plants in the U.S.A.
From an old Melbourne baldhead:—
Old Australian opera-lovers will remember Rose
Hersee, who sang her way into the hearts of Mel-
bourne and Sydney in the ’seventies. In her musi-
cal recollections, covering more than half a century,
she speaks pleasantly of her Antipodean tour, and
says she was the “first to introduce ‘Carmen’ to Aus-
tralian audiences.” Daughter of a London musical
critic, she sang as a principal in oratorio at 15, and
a few years later was prima donna of the Carl Rosa
Opera Co. Ten years ago she retired from operatic
work to become a teacher of singing and elocution.
In her young days, she says, managers thought that
anything would do so long as they had one or two
good singers at the top. English opera is now far
better produced and patronised, and it is going to
be infinitely more successful yet. “Why, at a
London suburban theatre the other night opera was
produced and sung in a style that might have done
credit to Covent Garden itself.” Rose Ilersee has
sung 80 leading operatic rSles in England, Australia
and America. Yet she confesses that she was never
able to conquer her nervousness. To the very last
her hands and arms would be stone cold when she
went on the stage.
“Coree”: This is how the climate affects
them up North. There is a cafe in Queen-
street, Brisbane, where 50 or 60 couples (the
floor will not accommodate more) foot it
every uight of the week bar Sunday ; and as
dancing as a summer-evening pastime has
become so popular, "a former skating-rink
Melbourne Tivoli,
Roger, tenor.
in the Willey has
been transformed
into an open-air
Palais de Hop, and
two to three hun-
dred couples roll
up every night.
Out west it’s much
the same. Last
year, with the tem-
perature at 120° in
the water-bag, I
turned up at a
dance near Langlo
Crossing, 40 ?niles
beyond Charleville.
It was a great
night and we
stirred clouds of
dust from the earth
floor tp the tune of
a concertina, but
we didn’t mind the
dust, as a long beer
soon clears your
throat. Supper was
a great success.
Out west they are
not dainty feeders,
and having helped
my partner through
a wharfie’s dinner
I urged her to try
some more cake.
Without putting on
dingo she declined.
remarking, “No thanks, I got a bellyful of
pudden !”
Phil Smith, the chubby little J.C.W.
comedian, played respondent in Sydney
Divorce Court last week, when Jessie Mabel
Smith (formerly Barley) petitioned Justice
Gordon to snap the bonds on the ground of
desertion, joker Phil having failed to comply
with the usual order for the usual rights.
Decree nisi. There are four lesser Smiths.
“Amos Manbis”: Allow me to add two
quaint Hamlets to the list. G. H. (?)
Defries and Harry Teece Ilamleted in Syd-
ney for one consecutive night each in the
late ’7o’s, or very early ’SO’s. Defries was
a gasfitter who did a lot of work for the
theatres, which may account for his con-
tracting the disease. Poor Harry Teece was
a clerk in the Mines Department; but his
artistic temperament and his success as an
amateur elocutionist induced him to chuck
up the service and take to the cold, cold
boards under the wing of old Johnny Hall.
A whinny from Launceston Examiner :
Excursion. To-night! To-night!
S.S. Rowitta. S.S. Rowitta. Tq Rosevears.
Leaving 7.30. Home, 10.45 sharp. Mares Is. 6d.
Dear, dear! We’ve heard them called fillies.
But this is an unchivalrous age.
“A.G.” : Remember how, in the years be-
fore the war, you used to contribute small
silver to the smiling collector for the little
German band? Well, the musical Huns are
now sending their instruments into Krupp’s,
and some of us may yet be blown off life’s
programme with a whizz-bang made out of
the old trombone.
London's actor-managers are taking it in
turns to play the divorcee. A month or two
back it was Arthur Bourchier against whom
his wife, A iolet Vanbrugh, got a decree nisi,
Aow Lillah McCarthy has divorced the
widely-known Granville Barker. Both the
leading ladies in their younger and unmar-
ried days toured Australia.
“Norbell”: Marie Tempest figured in the
movies in Australia last year. The spasm
was “Airs. Plum’s Pudding,” a “Struck Oil”
kind of ebullition. Marie played Mrs. Plum
an unsophisticated country dame.
Hairison O,”: Critics condemn “Marv
Goes hirst because they do not like its
heroine; yet Mary, with her
uncharitableness and unreasonableness •’
more of a real woman than the h P .T;I’ 18
whom a long lino of
have accustomed us. Most Mom s
critics adopt the Clement Scott attih fl!S rne
demand that characters shaDteg a “?J
art-proof compartments, one to contain
sheep, all sweet and good, The 0 her t
accommodate the goats, all honelessw 1 ,°
When an author takes his heroine trim it '
instead of from the theatre, and endows f 6 ’
with touches of ill-nature, these TT 61 '
announce that they are left ‘‘with tICS
unpleasant taste in the mouth ” T„ vr an
Henry Arthur Jones has drawn a chaSP’
as essentially feminine as Becky Share
it is ridiculous to complain because - (
not an entirely different kind of hSoin
(one of Jane Austen's sugary females fP
example) who would merely make the nh •
feeble and unconvincing. Wise dramatists
like Jones, Shaw and some others S
that the Marys of this world are 101 l
because of their faults and in spite of T
virtues, but stodgy newspaper critics Jin
never understand this. S Wlll
’’Reel Five” : The Yank film-makers are a
poetic lot. Last night I saw a beautiful
young hero making dallers by the pailful
with three telephones, a man-secretary and
a girl typist. When he fell in love so thnt
he could hardly 'tend to business, he stole six
different photos, of his proud honey-babe
from the drawer of her fat father’s desk had
six copies taken of each, and made his whole
office staff tack them up round his office
walls. This scene of plain idioev havin'*
vanished, the picture-sheet glared with hit
white letters: “The Love Bug Has Sure
Enough Bitten Hank.” Say, that’s po’trv
kid, am t it? • ’
THE CIRCUS RIDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My lady rides a circus horse,
A circus horse, a circus horse.
All round and round the tan-laid course
She rides him in a scrap of net,
Some rubies, and an amulet;
And she’s refused a coronet!
She executes a tour de force,
A most amazing tour de force,
My lady on her circus horse.
She points a toe towards the sky,
One toe upholds her riding by.
My lovely lady seems to fly.
Through burning hoops she takes her course,
O’er many hurdles flies her course,
My lady on her circus horse.
Two-score a week they say she’ll get,
And find her dresses. Few regret
She's not contrived to find them yet.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
PICTURE PROBLEMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ U . .vour sweetheart jilted you, married vour
criminal brother, and was his wife for a day would
you forgive her and take her back? - ’
— Picture-show ad.
(Part I.)
There are problems which, the picture shows present
That appeal to manhood's noblest sentiment.
Now, for instance, if your missus
Should prefer the chauffeur's kisses
Would you sack him, or his salary augment?
If your brother, who's a burg-u-lar by trade,
Should your own domestic paradise invade,
And should snare your wife and boodle
For a wild week-end canoodle,
Would you feel inclined to cheer him or upbraid?
(End of Part I. Part 11. will follow immediately.)
(Part II.)
If your sweeheart, who has lysolled her papa,
And has slowly starved to death her aged ma,
Then explains it's due to liver,
Do you fancy you’d forgive her
Knowing how- impulsive modern maidens arc?
If a vampire with a very goo-goo eye
Should induce you the conventions to defy,
Though you didn’t think it loaded
Till your sinful dream exploded
And your wife got asking questions, would you lie?
(The End.)
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL


Motor Qrs
The Light Four
Touring Car
£,365
Electric Lights Electric Starter Magneto Ignition
A Logical Purchase
A better motor car for less money.
Willys-Overland success means just that
to you.
Fcr years the Overland product has out-
sold all cars in its class.
This year, through an achievement new to
the motor car industry, the company has ap-
plied the economies of vast production to
the most comprehensive range of models ever
built by any one motor car manufacturer.
All the general expense heretofore charged
to a single class of motor cars has been dis-
tributed over several groups, including not
only low priced cars but cars in the high-
priced class selling for a moderate price.
We can offer you the dominant value in
motor cars of either class —all cars of quality
—some one of which is exactly adapted to
your any need or pleasure.
In every class these motor cars represent
such remarkable value that every consider-
ation of pride, economy, safety and enjoy-
ment must urge you to consider Willys-
Overland motor cars first.
Tell us what kind and class of motor car
you want. Let us help you solve your per-
sonal motor car problems as thousands of
others are solving theirs —permanently.
We will gladly arrange for a practical
demonstration.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“Country Club ”
Willys-Knight Mode!
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
r
finis
m
m
m
w
;'V>^
mi
\2
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney. HEATHORN & CO.. Hobart & Launceston ,
EAGER & SON, Brisbane. AUTOCARS LTD., Adelaide.
KELLOW f-ALKINER LID., Melbourne. ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
TheWillys-Overhind Company, Toledo, Ohio
Manufacturers of WiUys- Knight anri Overland Motor Cars
am! Lfeht Lorries


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women
know that for this purpose such 'a simple
substance as powdered pheminol may be
used, applied directly to the hair. The recom-
mended treatment is designed not merely to
instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of pheminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. Unless you have some
ability as an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance still more. - The new and rational
way is to take off the complexion itself; with
all its offensive marks. Just gef some'pure
mercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night, the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercolized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
Particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face—unless it be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the' face is bathed
with the stymol-charged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own accord, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediatelv con-
tract and efface themselves naturallv. ' There
is no squeezing, forcing, or any drastic
action. The skin is left uninjured, smooth,
soft and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals of three or four days
thereafter in order to insure the permanence
of the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often down-right injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum to prove
this. Apply this simple and harmless lotion
for a few nights to the hair with a small
sponge, and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of the formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty
specialist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
the scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes, thereby causing the hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair,
will clear and prevent dandruff, ‘and leave
that fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also removes excess oil or greasiness. [1
NO ELECTRICITY.
Runs on Methy-
lated Spirits.
The Lake Breeze
Motor Cooling Fan
A remarkable inven-
tion. Fuel costs less
than one halfpenny
per hour. Practical,
proved, simple, sub-
stantial, hand some,
quiet. Superb mechan-
ical construction. Runs
anywhere without elec-
tricity, and is port-
able. Send for circu-
lar. Order early.
Agents wanted.
DDISON PARKER,
Clarence Street, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND’S HOT SPRINGS
FOR RHEUMATISM
CHRONIC INDIGESTION 8 GOUT.
Testimonials and Particulars—
LINGLEY’S HOTEL, Muckadilla.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
THE. GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY
GOUT
& RHEUMATIC PILES.
The famous Itemedy that actually re-
lieves RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA and MUSCULAR RHEUMA-
TISM.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores, 1/- and 2/6 per box.
Prout & 22') Strand. London.
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a tew drops of
Dhosfomio
I THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 8C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
Witk
PRICES
xm
=7 /
- V'
Q
;V
Vou secure Lather
''that’s fragrant
Lather that lasts.
PR.I CE’S. _ London
PRrCE’S
»A*t«
Liverpool. Manchesrer Glasgow
¥ S
-
THIS instep-strap shoe has been specially
designed to look trim and dainty
beneath those delightfully feminine
frills and flounced hems that have
returned to vogue again. It is a particularly
pretty shoe, with a fine air of individuality
about it. The front part is patent leather,
and the back and strap are black flowered
brocade, set off by an attractive slide and
ornament of dull silver. The picture gives
some idea of the happiness of this combina-
tion, but the shoe itself is far more charm-
ing than the picture. Made in the dainty,
short-fronted shape and with that smart
Cuban heel which makes walking so comfort-
able, it really is a “find” in the wav of
shoes. And ladies will see other and equally
delightful shoes in the latest Bostock ship-
ments, especially if they view them at once.
Bostock No.
r,
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
On sale at all leading stores.
for the name “Rostock” on the
Cl OR £1 Gs. Ud. you can have The
X. Bulletin sent regularly to you every
Dost'Mid Je T toany^dreSS in Aus tralasia,-
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s
per annum, post free. Cheques, dra j L
and all business communications si
addressed to The Manager, *l4 8
Street, Sydney.
“Cypress Mick’’: Any Australian press-
man game to try a useful substitute for
“remains,” “departed,” “corpse,” “late
lamented” or “deceased”? If so, let him
drop “decedent” into the next obituary he
writes and stand off and see if it drives his
sub. to the dictionary. Just struck it in the
send-off to an American cartoonist fatally
concerned in an accident to his motor-car. No
Australian artist has yet had the luck to die
like this.
“Bram”: Dr. Vizetelly, in the introduc-
tion to his newly-published “25,(XX) Words
Frequently Mispronounced,” says:— •
It is a curious fact that affectations of speech
make the British University-bred man one of the
most difficult of English-speaking men to follow.
A late Premier of the Leg. Assembly of one of the
States of the Australian Commonwealth was educated
at Oxford University and brought from his Alma
Mater a voice that has been the despair of press
reporters and an enunciation so thick as almost to
require the services of an interpreter to understand
him. Added to this, he has acquired the fashionable
habit of clipping his final syllables.
Not Gregory Wade?
Old Dr. Imlay, who gave his name to the
mountain at Twofold Bay (N.S.W.), was a
noted character in his day. He had inter-
ests in Tasmania, including a grant of land
on Forester’s Peninsula, where local tra-
dition knows him as Dr. Emily. He got in
here about IS3O and used to supply beef to
the penal settlement at Port Arthur. The
stock were shipped down from Twofold Bay,
and landed at Lagoon Bay, where they were
fattened. Imlay put in a fine system of
drains to serve the swamps thereabouts, and
they are still as good as new.
“Glen II.” : Is there a case on record of a
libel action arising out of an “In Memoriam”
rhyme? If not, seems likely to be one some
day if friends of the dear departed make a
habit of stanzas like the following, published
in a Melbourne daily. 30/11/T7 :
Sad, sad was your life,
Our loved sister and daughter,
By fate linked to one
Devoid of principle or honor,
Suffering long years of grief
In fond love for your children,
Until God cut the bond
Of your ill-fated union.
—(lnserted by her loving mother, sisters aid
brothers.)
‘‘Hamer" : If the Australians have made a
name for themselves in England the brilli-
ancy of their publicity department is not to
be thanked. Bean’s reports in the English
papers are less inspired than the average
reporter’s account of doings in the courts.
For several days past we in camp in Eng-
land have been receiving detailed news of
stirring events in France, the word-of-mouth
stories of participants, while Bean has been
droning his dull, drab records. That our
men “gained all their objectives” was the
most thrilling remark he made. If other
agencies were not beating him I wouldn’t
care tuppence; but the illustrated dailies
have been publishing official photographs of
Canadians on their way to the big offensive,
coming back from the push, having their
wounds dressed, bringing in German prison-
ers, in a captured trench and in other more
or less interesting situations. Their publicity
work is so well done that if Canadians score
the light is on them at once for the world to
see, while if Australians do great things
others have to use the lantern, or nobody
knows.
Ernest Osborne, concerning phosphate:—
When in 1899 a door-chock in an office in Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney, brought from the Central
Pacific as'-'a specimen of fossilised wood, proved to
be phosphate rock of the highest-known quality, the
treasure-house of the Equatorial Pacific was opened.
Almost immediately Barraba (Ocean Island), 177
miles east from Nauru, whence the door-chock came,
and known to be of similar geological formation, was
proved to be as rich in phosphate of lime.
J. T. Arundel, most enterprising of early ex-
plorers for guano on the smaller Pacific Islands, was
the leading spirit in the initial working of these
masses of phosphate of lime. Ocean Island was the
first to be attacked. Nauru, under German Protec-
torate, was not operated until 1906. Naturally,
pains were taken to prevent the public getting a
peep into the treasure houses. There was said to be
but a thin coating of phosphate dust on the rocks.
Observations have, however, satisfied me that Ocean
Island would average 4ft. of phosphate all over, run-
ning, say, 19ft. (cubic) to the ton. When blasting
on the tide-reef itself, submerged except during
lowest tides, I have found rich phosphate rock, indi-
cating, perhaps, a slight subsidence.
The Ocean Islanders could sell dried phosphate,
delivered to the co.’s bins, at 4s. the ton. Before
the war steamers were chartered for the Australian
trade at about 7s. the ton, which included return
carriage of the co.’s coal, stores,* etc., to its islands.
Yet the co.’s own labor is the best paid, housed and
fed of any colored labor south of the Equator.) Con-
sidering the moderate cost of production and the
high selling price of phosphate and that yearly
shipments have exceeded 200,000 tons, it is not sur-
prising that the co. has managed to keep its head
above water.
A German consulting engineer, after visiting Ocean
Island, set out exploring, and discovered Angaur in
the Pellews, north of New Guinea, to be rich, and
development was pushed along with characteristic
celerity. Piloted by Capt. Johansen, J. T. Arundel
made an expedition to Makatea (Aurora Island), 120
miles N.E. froni Tahiti. Th 6 deposits proving equallv
rich, though of smaller area (reputedlv 10,000 000
tons), an auxiliary French co. was formed to work
the island. Many smaller deposits of inferior-grade
phosphate exist, but, with the immense wealth of
high-grade stuff available, they cannot as vet be
profitably worked. Among competitors to be reckoned
with is the large and rich Christmas Island deposit
in the Indian Ocean. Surprise Island, on the Huon
reefs, north, and Walpole Island, south-east of New
Caledonia, are but small deposits of lower grade
which largely supply Maoriland. And there is Mal-
den Island, one of the far eastern Central Pacific
sporades, which also does a trade with Maoriland
The high-grade phosphate of Christmas, Angaur
Barraba, Nauru and Makatea islands, with cheap
labor and (under normal conditions) cheap sea-
carriage, will for generations to come sway the
markets and yield usurers’ interest on the capital
watered or otherwise, despite discoveries of phos-
phate in Australia, the reputed find of a vast deposit
possibly of low-grade phosphate, in Russia, and
the increasing manufacture of artificial fertilisers.
Also, phosphatic manures will in future be more
generally used in conjunction with that valuable
fertiliser, Chilean nitrate, so widely employed in
Northern European agriculture.


“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
MAKE IT a Merry Christmas!
Entertain with HIS MASTER’S VOICE
Send home a “Gramophone” and some “Hi 3
Master’s Voice” Records. Give the home-folk the
opportunity to enjoy the world’s BEST mum
aye, and the world’s quaintest gems of humor.
No other instruments and no other records
can entertain in quite the same way. The
“Gramophone” instruments introduce the most
perfect form of reproduction; “His Master’s
Voice” Records, flawless in themselves, introduce
THE WORLD’S CELEBRITIES—the most
famous artists, bands and orchestras ; none of them
available for any other records. The man who
knows buys “His Master’s Voice.” Those who do
not will soon come to know the difference; and ere
long be “His Master’s Voice” devotees themselves.
Accredited Dealers Everywhere.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and
name of nearest-accredited dealer on
request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
%
-V
/A
44
4fl
A
f
T
L
wmj!
HIS MASTER'S V*>lnE.”
qUEEWSLAH
* Book of m
192 Pages I
==! =! = § called m
A
“POCKET
QUEENSLAND"
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
"Telling all about’ rtx
( || jons Q f Acfes
of fer hie lend for
intending .settlers
will be sent-you
by filling in Ihe
Coupon below.
S.B
Aterne.
Address
qt/E£_nslawd /f'/r^LL/cc/^cs
TO U Tt! ST £ C/REAC/. (if?/SBAHE i
Pains 8 Aches in the Back.
People who suffer from aches and pains
in the back often imagine that they have
kidney trouble, and are needlessly alarmed.
It is a peculiar thing that real organic
kidney disease may have progressed to a
critical point without developing a pain in
the back. Doctors detect its presence by the
excretions of the kidneys themselves.
Pains in the back should always lead the
sufferer to look to the condition of the b.ood.
Every muscle of the body needs a supply of
rich, red blood in proportion to the work it
does. The muscles of the back are under
heavy strain and have but little, rest. \v hen
the blood is thin they lack nourishment and
rebel. The result is a sensation of pain in
these muscles.
It will be found in most cases that tne
use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to build up
the blood will stop the grumbling of the
ill-nourished muscles of the back. £j°w
much better it is to try Dr. Williams link
Pills for the blood than to give way to
unreasonable alarm about your kidneys. It
you suspect your kidneys any doctor can
make tests in 10 minutes that will set your
fears at rest or tell you the worst. All
dealers sell Dr. Williams’ Pink I ills.
Anv reader of this paper may have a.
useful booklet on “Building Up the Blood
by writing to the Dr. Williams Medicine
Co., Box 594 G.P.0.. Sydney.—Advx.
An Ideal Gift —
The “Plum” Razor. Its keenly-tempered edge
remains keen; the result is only one lathering i 3
usually necessary.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
So nice to use
Tec
1
A
And it enables you to
give the teeth every day
that thorough antiseptic
cleansing so necessary
to keep them in the best
possible condition.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & CoManchester , Eng.
*
*
*0
•/I
6
© •
© * A
OUR ARTIST
JEWELLERS
have surpassed themselves this year for the
Xmas trade in Brooches. They usually are up-
to-date, but this Xmas will reveal -a range' of
exquisite new designs beyond any previous year.
The impossibility of importing has probably
been a spur to effort, necessity being the mother
of invention.
Anyhow, they “have got there.”
Fine Diamond, set in Platinum, choicely
cased, 84/-
Fine Diamonds, set in Platinum, and fine Gold
Brooch, £lO.
WHAT about prices, though ?
Well, we make the brooches, and so are in a position to know that they are rare -values.
Values greater than you can get in England.
Values larger than in previous times, because we bought the unset jewels at great—very great—red
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS LTD*
The Oldest Jewellery
k House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. EUab. 1891.
KILL
THE _
BLOW FLIES.
mm
This trap has been tested and ap-
proved by the Officer-in-Charge of
the Government Sheep-Fly Experi-
ment Station. It is used by pastor-
alists with excellent results. Made
of best quality wire gauze on strong
galvanised frame to fit over an empty
kerosene tin. Offal, such as the
heart, liver or lungs of a beast, dead
rabbits, or sour milk all make at-
tractive baits. Soon proves its
worth as an effective Fly Trap.
PER DOZ.
Free on Rail Sydney.
RONALD WESTGARTH,
(Supplier of All Station Requisites)
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
IA OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
. BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlientres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
IVOLl THEATRE.
S Y I) X E Y
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22.
ADA REEVE,
In her famous Musical Play,
WINNIE BROOKE, WIDOW.
MELBOURNE.
•IVOLl
THEATRE,
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 22.
HUGH D. McINTOSll {(resents the Sparkling
Comedv,
BABY MINE,
Also DELMORE AND LEE, ROGERO, REYNOLDS
AND WHITE, and the HOLMES TRIO.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
CRITERION THEATI1 E, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS OF CHEATING CHEATERS.
Matinfie Every Wednesday at 2.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 26 (Boxing Night)
KATHLENE MACDONELL
With CHARLES WALDRON
in
PETER PAN.
H
E R M A J E S T Y ’ S, S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
Including FLORENCE YOUNG,
in
THE RED WIDOW.
A Musical Play of Smart Dialogue.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w
COMMENCING SATURDAY. DECEMBER 22.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
NEW COMEDY COMPANY
in the
NEW HENRIETTA.
By thg.Author of “Turn to the Right.”
Played by the “Turn to the Right” Co.
Most Exciting Comedy Drama of the Day.
•HE PLAYHOUSE,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sole Lessee: SYDNEY JAMES.
GRAND CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
SYDNEY JAMES presents
THE RAJAH OF SHIVAPORE,
A Comic Opera of the East, by Alfred Hill.
Book by David Souter.
Full Chorus and Ballet.
Plan at Faling’s.
IRTHS’ HIPPODROME THEATRE,
HIPPODROME
Haymarket.
Commencing
BOXING DAY AT 1.45.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
HILARIOUS XMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK.
MABELLE MORGAN,
AUSTRALIA’S OWN,
PRINCIPAL BOY.
HARRY FARROW as DAME.
Prices to Suit Everybody.
la.
W\
\w
*T* 1U ANCLE PLAYS AT
1 THE I.YCEI M.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
u
NI O N
CRYSTAL
PICT l It E T H E A T It E
In GEORGE STREET.
. PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
S
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
H
EH MAJESTY’S TII EAT It K, M KI.HOU UNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza.
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
II E A T It E It O Y A L, M EI.HOC RNR.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
KING’S THEATRE, MEEBO U R N E.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22.
MATINEES SATURDAYS, WEDNESDAYS AND
ALL HOLIDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT AND BAILEY & GRANT’S
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ALADDIN and THE WONDERFUL
LAMP.
Plans at Allan's. Prices: 6/- K. Stalls, 5/- D.C.,
Stalls 4/-, Gallery 2/- and 1/-. Plus Tax.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 22.
Welcome Reappearance of
ALLAN WILKIE AND CO.
in Walter Howard’s Romantic Story of Roundhead
and Cavalier,
FOR THE KING.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE WHIP.
An 8-Act Wonderplay ablaze with sensation.
Matinees daily at 2.30 Nights at 8.
Amusements.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matin6es Saturday at 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES.
OLGA PETROVA
in
THE SECRET OF EVE.
And
ALMA HANLON
in
THE MYSTIC HOUR.
Prices as usual.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
-J“ HE SONG OF THE HOUR!
ONE OF THESE DAYS.
ONE OF THESE DAYS.
The absolutely Most Successful Song Published for
Manj r Years.
Price 2/-. All Music Stores, or direct.
JOE SLATER PUBLISHING CO., SYDNEY.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Collis Browne's
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
Amusements.
M
ELBA THEATRE,
3IELBOUKNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
Business Notices.
Morlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HALTED MILK
*¥M.l**
*«rs
VfOfUA
S
THE IJEST MEDICINE IOU
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
anil in the Cough of IiIiONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION'.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, $/•, 5/-.
Made in England.
///
Grown od British owned plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels.
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. 'Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
. Liverpool A LondoJV
Evans Sons Lescher A Webb, Ltd
Fifty
years
before
at
V.
J
Fifty years be-
fore pneumatic
tyres were intro-
duced —Moseley rubber was
world-famous for its quality*
Moseleys were handling, testing, shaping
and experimenting with rubber as far
back as 1832 —more than 84
years ago.
This enormous advantage
has never been lost,
To'day its results
are evident in the
magnificent quality of
M oseley Tyres, and
in their remark-
ably low prices.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer
If you find any difficulty in obtaining,
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
287-2 8 9, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “ Grear.” Sydney
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINARLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
C.W. H.
M. 6.
T
COMMONWEALTH
Department of the N Navy,
Melbourne, 13th December 19 17
Tenders for the Supply of Power Pil
H.M.A. Naval Establishments
Garden Island, Sydney. ’
ENDERS will be received, until 12 «
on Friday, 7th June, 1918 for fh o noon
ply. delivery and erection of power n,J Up '
RM.A. Nava, Establishn-eaCSeft,^.
Tender forms, specifications and anv c,
ther particulars may be obtained on
tion at the office of the Director of v
Contracts. Navy Office, Melbourne thp r 7
eral Manager. Garden Island SydneJ fa
at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birff
head (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart *
JOSEPH COOK, ‘
Minister of State for the Navy.
Missing Friends.
| NFORMATION of the whereabouts P f
1 T F. DALTON, late of Coracl Wiaf
mera District, Victoria, on account nf
bereavement in familv. Write to p
DALTON. 347 Danks Street, Middle Vk
Melbourne. '
D BOYLE.—Formerly on RailwayWfb
• at Ivempsey, N.S.W., present*
wanted. A. C. Destree, Solicitor, Hamilton
Victoria.
Business Notices.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from-whether Asthma. Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
JgoCfa*
A 14 DAYS
FREE. TRIAL
OF CALOX
is well worth making. Attach
your name and address to this
■ advertisement. Enclose two penny
stamps to cover postage and mail to 1
Calox Department, Geo. Wills and
Co., Collins Street, Melbourne. VVe
will send you the big free sample tin
immediately.
D
The OXYGEN TOOTH POWDER
is proclaimed by dentists in Great
Britain and America to be the most
effective dentrifice known. It generates
oxygen when it becomes moistened.
This potent germicide reaches every, tiny
cavity in the teeth, destroys fermenting
food particles, arrests dnd prevents
decay, and neutralises acid secretions
which injure the enamel of the teeth.
Calox tones up the gums, hardens
the teeth, sweetens the breath,
purifies the mouth, and is
both refreshing and pleas-
ing to use.
Calox is sold in hand-
some nickel-topped
non-wasting con-
tainers, and is
pro curable
from
All Chemists &
Leading Btores T CALOX
F. 20/12/’l7. l/fflTdKoet
IT’S GREAT
r:lu
find
how
my
for
away
ge
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better hea
consequence.
On sale by all the following
Write, or call for particular-
_. . ct A(l pl '
Eyes anil Crowle Etd., Tin "(j.p.0.,
aide; Geo. C. Carter, Bo**”' Co.
Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto SuPP R B .
Pty., Elizabeth St., . sydnefi
Russack, 377 a Elizabeth d St.,
Philip Frankel & Co..
Brisbane.


Dandruff and
Itching Scalp
In Thick Scales. Irritation Un-
bearable. Hair Came Out. Cu-
tictira Completely Healed.
For some months I suffered with
dandruff and itching scalp. The dan-
druff was in thick scales
and the irritation was
unbearable. My hair
came out gradually.
“Seeing Cuticura ad-
vertised I decided to send
for samples. I used a
full tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment with the Soap and
was completely healed.”
(Signed) Mrs. E. M. Butler, 146 Baptist
Street, Redfern, Sept. 29, 1916.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment prevent
pimples or other eruptions.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address •
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE 3
specMUdf
TWO
t/A/£S
kirt 5
5
W*Z'
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
Zc /TOTNTER NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
‘ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42 grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1§ oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
m
p
s
Case
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitro’
Cartridge
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L°LONDON
If any illustratipn appearing in 1
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Dozens of Uses
TDICTURED at the right are
**■ only a few of the many uses of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. You
could secure no handier aid for use
in polishing and finishing.
4< The Dust-Proof Polish”
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a
perfectly hard, dry, glasslike polish
of great beauty and durability.
It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appro-
priate to this style. It entirely
removes the “cloudiness” from Ma-
hogany, restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax for keeping dining-
room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes do not affect it in the
slightest.
Every family has dozens of uses for
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep a
tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos. Piano
Floors Furniture
Woodwork Motor Car
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is conven-
iently put up. Always ready for use.
No tools or brushes required. All
you need is a soft cotton rag.
You can secure Johnson’s Prepared
Wax from all good dealers, or from:
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
LMIII H»lf I 1 I » 1 *
SBHSOJf£
PREPARED WA
Complete Finish and Polis
S i£HNSON&SON
COJJTJENTSI QUART
o.s.standard
%- p P n rifgSg
o flflnn oo do p o dp oqdug nnn dp non o n d,d d DoaooQOD no o. o o o o p o o d o o o d o o o o o o d o h d o o d o d d q Q d d n o o o o a o d d g o d_o o y a MJL 0 ,p.AP. poop o o o o o o“
tflilUin 'll sssjFST tOWfetefr. 1 M
do l w* \ 1 * 7) X>Js 1 v** \ JUif* JuG&mm&ki: ~ \\ (T l/ >uaf^i
f
sv
w'
£
'{^l
J
n
H4=H
00000 fl 0000000 OODOOnOOOOOODDOOOOOOOODOO DODO 000 00 ODDOOOOOO-nD‘D'ODBHIIDU.DDDIEian-11 !D !ffll!DfiDlDlD®®l
onouoo 0 p a 0 0 onooooooooeojpoooooooo
NAZETHA
The most effedive and
pleasing' Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
r
6
Lllff
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Tup
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
“Copy Boy” : When at the end of the year
leader-writer Ambrose Pratt walks off the
Age, George Cockeril will become its chief
thunderer. Cockeril did gallery work for the
Age and afterwards became chief of staff,
and when Pratt succeeded Ben Hoare as
chief leader-writer Cockeril became second-in-
command, devoting himself chiefly to State
politics, while Pratt looked after the Fed-
erals. Cockeril is a ready writer who once
so far forgot himself as* to lay a novel.
“The Convict Pugilist,” which reads exactly
like it sounds. Ben Hoare, despite his 80-
odd years, still supplies the Age with its
Saturday leading article.
* * * *
A Hebrew citizen was lately up at the
South Melbourne Court for something pretty
smellful, and when it was over he came
along to the four pressmen on the job and
told them what an awful thing it was for
him, and how he would rather pay £5O than
have his name published. Then he .slipped
something under a piece of paper, remark-
ing : “Yell, there you are boys,” and hurried
off. When someone pulled the paper away
—lo ! a whole half-crown! After which four
anguished pressmen asked one another
whether they really looked as cheap as that.
James Henderson has just retired from
the position of “publisher” of the S. M.
Herald. For 60 years and eight months his
name has been on the Fairfaxes’ pay-sheet;
for 52 years he has filled the position he has
just vacated. It is probably a world’s record.
If it isn’t it ought to be.
“T. 0.1.”: Paddy Tomkins, printer, has
laid down his stick for good. Born in Syd-
ney, he served his time as a comp, on the
Freeman’s Journal ; then joined the
Globe (editor, the late Gresley Lukin) and
Sunday Times. He went to the Aus-
tralian Star when it began to twinkle in
1887, and when the Star became the Sun
he was part of it. In his young days Paddy
was a boxer of note, and fought many bouts
in the late Larfy Foley’s White Horse rooms.
* * * *
“Glen H.” : Just-dead Franklin Matthews
is remembered by inky-wayfarers who were
associated with him when Uncle Sam’s fleet
visited us as a fine pressman and a good fel-
low. In appearance he was like Admiral
Sperry, and when he was saying s’long to a
group of Melbourne inkslingers and Tummus
Bent, who had presided that night at a
journalists’ smoke-ho, a couple of flappers
rushed up. “Oh, Sir Thomas, is that dear
Admiral Sperry?” they asked. Thomas
Adolphus winked. “Just murmur your
names in my ear and I’ll give you
an intro. The Admiral’s crazy about
girls.” There was only a minute or two
to train-time, and the press gang didn’t
get a decent chance to shake hands with
Matthews, for, Thomas having set the ball
rolling, females rushed forward from all
sides, and Bent and Matthews were kept
hard at work. There are at least 47 Mel-
bourne damsels who to this day cherish the
sweet things said to them on that occasion
by the dear “Admiral.”
Another of the fraternity, Lieut. Charlie
Scott, M.C., has joined the deathless army.
He went from the Brisbane Courier to
Egypt with the L.H., thence to Flanders.
At Messines he rushed single-handed to attack
a machine-gun crew that was tearing into
some of his own battalion, but when he was
almost on top of the Huns they slewed the
gun and it was good-night for another gal-
lant Australian.
“Solomon Gay”: Philip C. de Crespigny
is the latest Bananaland journalist to link
up with the A.I.F. For some time attached
to the staffs of the Standard and Mail, he
has latterly been devoting himself to a his-
tory of Queensland for a local firm of pub-
lishers. Before Beasley took over the job
he was secretary to the local branch of the
Journalists’ Association. Being 6ft. 6in.
from north to south the thing that is worry-
ing Discrepancy most is whether he will
get a uniform long enough to fit him.
* * * #
Pearson’s Weekly gives away a secret
that Henry Lawson had been keeping dark :
Bushmen are addicted to writing verses. A station-
hand, while riding round the run, killing sheep or
branding cattle, is often seen to assume suddenly a
far-away expression, the result being some spirited
stanzas carried out on a piece of stringvbark or the
nearest post-and-rail fence, with a burnt piece of wood.
As a matter of fact, some of its most
splendid bush poetry arrives at The
Bulletin office hopelessly tangled with
barb-wire.
The irrepressible jester.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McGinnis was a humorist,
Of all things he made jest;
He put his jokes down on a list,
And always sold the best.
•Some yarns, ’tis true, were too verbose;
Some brought him thirty pounds a gross.
Mac sent his jokes to editors
In English-speaking lands—
Ijie Bulletin has purchased scores,
Some of his finest brands
(Though Mac long since went to the deuce)
May still be found in common use.
At length he could not stop. A wheeze
Came with his every breath.
He joked at life; his nurse to please
He even joked at death.
Below, respited for a term,
He jested with the deathless worm.
Then, brought to judgment, lo! a jest
Irreverently fell.
They took and hurled him from the blest,
And on the gates of Hell
He left a sample of his pow’rs.
The words he wrote were: “Grills, All Hours!”
Before a dozen days had sped
The damned in blank dismay
To bottomless infernos fled,
And closely barred the way.
McGinnis now, a lonely elf,
Has Hell entirely to himself!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


Blue Amberol Records
for December and Christmas
The delay in announcing fresh arrivals of Edison Blue
Amberol Records —occasioned by the recent industrial
upheaval—only serves to emphasise the special charm
of those offered for December and Christmas, which are
now on sale at all dealers.
There will be a big demand for the two concert
records —both being superb—and for “Joy to the World”
and “Ring Out, Wild Bells,” by the Carol Singers, and
“Christmas’ Eve” (Robert Gayler).
“Sweet Genevieve” (Ida Gardner), “Barcarolle”
(American Symphony Orchestra) and “Pack Up Your
Troubles” (Helen Clark and chorus) will be very popular.
Make up YOUR list and order to-day.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28256—Carry Me Back to Old Virginny.
Baritone, orch. acc.
Thomas Chalmers and Chorus.
28259-
-La Fatal Pietra —Aida, Verdi.
Soprano and Tenor, in Italian, orch.
Marie Itappold & Giovanni Zenatello.
Blue Amberol Regular Records
3013—Ireland Must Be Heaven, for My
Mother Came from There. Tenor,
orch. acc. Walter Van Brunt.
3029 — Joy to the World, Mixed Voices,
orch. acc. Carol Singers.
3030 First Noel. Mixed Voices with
orchestra. Carol Singers.
3031 — O Sing to God, Gounod. Soprano
and Contralto, orch. acc.
Betsy Lane Shepherd, Helen Clark
and Oratorio Chorus.
3032 — Ring Out, Wild Bells, Gounod.
Mixed Voices, orch. acc.
Carol Singers.
3036 —Christmas Eve (A Fantasie on Old
Christmas Carols), Celesta.
Robert Gayler.
3051—1 n Florida Among the Palms. Tenor,
orch. acc. Walter Van Brunt.
3054 —Dancing Down in Dixie Land. Tenor
and Baritone, orch. acc.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan.
3061 —Childhood Days—The Girl from
Brazil. Soprano, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice and Chorus.
3065—Hawaiian Hula Medley, Hawaiian
Guitars. Helen Louise & Frank Ferera.
3067 —Beneath a Balcony—Fox Trot. For
Dancing.
Vess L. Ossman's Banjo Oi'chestra.
3068 —Silver Star. Soprano and Tenor,
orch. acc.
Gladys Rice & George Wilton Ballard.
3070—Barcarolle —Tales of Hoffman.
American Symphony Orchestra.
3072 — Eyes Have a Language of Their Own
—Betty. Tenor, orch. acc.
Irving Kaufman & Chorus of Girls.
3073 — (a) Last Rose of Summer.
( b) Old Folks at Home, Zimbalom.
M. Nagy.
3075 —After All. Tenor, orch. acc.
Charles Harrison.
3079 — Sweet Genevieve. Contralto, orch.
acc. Ida Gardner.
3080 — Just One Day. Tenor, orch. acc.
George W. Ballard.
3081 — Garden Dance.
Imperial Marimba Band.
30S4 —A Broken Doll —London Taps. For
Dancing. Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3139 —Pack Up Your Troubles In Your
Old Kit Bag and Smile, Smile, Smile.
Contralto, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Chorus.
27077 —All de la Symphonie Pastorale,
Beethoven.
Garde Republicaine (French) Band.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Cert
ficate for
£4 7 6
£8 15 0
£43 15 O
£B7 10 O
£875 0 0
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6° War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA. October , 1917
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise.from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravislier of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
~:'/fnx rTr
m
%
m $
M;
m
m
m
Vy/i
in a
moment
Simply raise this little
lever, immerse nib in
ink, lower lever and
the pen is filled. It’s
the
LEVER POCKET
SELF- FILLING
In this type of the World’s Best Fountain Pen you have a quick filling
device which is far and away better than anything previously invented.
Like the other parts of this perfect pen, it is too simple to get out of order
•Waterman's Ideals are made in three types: Of Stationers and
“ Lever Pocket Self-Filling,” “ Safety," and “ Regular." Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd., (Sorrier London, England .
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON. 105 Clarence Street, Sydney
r -> •, y ;.1 v* jv; >
v/- : "
-V - ' ”' l r
At-ftov
,li‘i •fcssk
vS porting
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
“A marvel at the price .” .
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2i}lb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
AV
&
10
r~
O*
“Splendid for all small game. ,>
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model
24in. octagon barrel, 22 calibre rim fire marine
takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-liardened
receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight,
take-down. ’■
weight. sJlb. off/
Freight paid, V 5(“
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/2/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/5/-
With 1-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/5/.
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-ealibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid,3l/'/O
length
Same
“A good rifle at a moderate price."
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4ilb.; 3^/»
over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights.
Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger.
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s|lb. .. 70/A
Freight paid, •
•?‘-r =;«
iT.-
_ “Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b o«al/i
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.) 00/U
REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
sjras
“A suitable weapon for the 'boy. ,,
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
. (Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
22/6
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold good
for two weeks from date.
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
Inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s£lb. mi
Freight paid, 3tO/O/"
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 39/3 1000; 4/- 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
A perfect rabbiter’s rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short. 12 long 0
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open •JC\ m
front sights; weight. 4*lb. Freight paid, 4
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
1/- post free.
87. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round 24in.
barrel case-hardened frame, solid breech, block under lever ,
action; weight 4ilb.. fitted with ladder rear sight and open front, o 5/ —
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F, 25 or 32 calibres, 2/6 extra.
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
47/6
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll tnggei og q
guard, rubber heel plate; weight,
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also “Sure Catch ’’ They
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or loth lists.
are money savers.
arc
imm
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
and TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
ikncsstk l Brisbane^


Kewpie Doll is a True
REXONA GIRL.
BABY CHANDOS, as Kewpie Doll in “The Ban yip.
(From a photo, from Grace Bros.’ Studio .)
Dear Sirs, —
It gives me much
pleasure indeed in testi-
fying to the excellent
qualities of your famous
ltexona Soap.
I have used it on my
little daughter, “Baby
Chandos,” whose appear-
ance in “The Bunyip” as
the Kewpie Doll aroused
such favorable comment
throughout Sydney.
I have Rexona Soap to a
very large extent to thank
for her bonny, healthy skin
and her glistening silky
hair. I find that, unlike
other medicinal and toilet
soaps, Rexona gives the
skin a soft, velvet-like
feeling, and its healing
properties keep skin affec-
tions, so common to chil-
dren, at bay.
I shall always recom-
mend Rexona Soap to my
friends and acquaint-
ances, as it does all and
more than is claimed for
it.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.)
LUCY BEENLEIGH,
114 Nelson Street,
Annandale.
regular use of Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap. Ordinary-
Toilet Soaps do not assert this
influence. Many of them con-
tain free alkali, which tends
to dry the skin and destroy its
delicate texture. Even the best
of such soaps can only cleanse ;
they cannot heal and protect
the skin. Rexona Soap con-
tains the same soothing; heal-
ing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the
value of which in the treat-
ment of skin affections is
known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or
twice a day, and see if it
does not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen the
tendency to pimples, and leave
the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety. Price 1/- per tablet.
vf&llllL!
SKIN & FAHAL
MEO\CATtD SOAP.
saw
'il{s
EB
i
For all “ Outdooring”
“Rex" Camp Pie
fills the bill
For the ravenous, not to be denied in-
sistent hunger of all outdoors
Camp Pie
both hits the hungry spot, and yet says
“More!” “More!” For picnics it’s
fine. For hurry-up meals, great and
economical. For breakfasts, luncheons,
suppers, Auto, trips, boating parties,
etc., it stands on its own.
Serve it with salad, serve it as it comes
from the tin, serve it in sandwiches,
any way you like to try it, you'll like it.
“REX” CAMP FIE is compounded
from choice meats. The special pro-
cess of cooking, seasoning and pack-
ing in the firm clear jelly all tend to
enhance the fine flavor.
Ask your Grocer for a tin.
Insist on “ Rex” brand.
E 32
TASTY SANDWICH
SPREADS that every-
one enjoys are easily
made with the aid of
“ REX”
HAM PATE and
REX" VEAL & TONGUE PATE
They are nourishing
and satisfying.
Packed in perfect tins.
Sold by
ALL GROCERS.
FOGGITT , JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “ Rex " Pure Food Products
Curers of *• Rex ” Hams and Bacon J 25
My Mother.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HIIIS K my mother with brown hair
came hez-e
Out of a quiet place,
W here she had rested well, green year on
year,
H ith leaves above her face.
Death had not held her in brown earth and
cold,
But, happier trees among,
God took her to a garden sweet and old
Because she was so young.
She came to me with very quiet eyes,
I 1 ull of still light that crept
Out of long dreams that made her starry-
wise
All summers that she slept.
I had been far across a stony hill
And down a glade of thorn,
And tasted of all fevered springs that spill
The waters of red scorn.
1 thought my mother with brown hair came
near.
And on my loneliness
Set one Avhite hand of cool and holy cheer
In tenderest caress.
She had not passed the brambles and the
stone,
Nor known my withered land ;
Yet, when I faltered weary and alone,
God made her understand.
N.S.W
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Conscience Money.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MU. HORACE LEESON stood in the
doorway of Leeson’s Cafe Royal
and surveyed with a calculating
eye the shabby little man in faded frock-
coat and boxer hat who was engrossed in the
menu of Leeson’s evening meal —three
courses for ninepence, the best at the price
in town. The menu, in its brass frame, was
a standing invitation to the hungry by-passer
to enter the cafe and receive a practical proof
of what such an experienced caterer as Mr.
Leeson could do for ninepence. And the
proof lay not in the pudding alone, but in
three separate and satisfying courses—soup,
joint, pudding (or cheese), and, of course,
bread and butter and tea.
Becoming suddenly aware of Mr. Leeson’s
proprietary eye, the little man coughed in
an embarrassed manner, and sidling across
the pavement, remarked ingratiatingly:
“Evenin’, Mr. Leeson. I suppose you don’t
remember me, not after all these years?”
Mr. Leeson prided himself on never for-
getting a face ; therefore it was with visible
reluctance that he replied curtly, after an
appreciable pause: “Can’t say as I do.”
Now, the little mail had a face that most
people would be glad to forget as soon as
possible.
“Well, it ain’t surprisin’,” said the owner
of the face, resignedly. “Twenty years is
twenty years, and it’s bound to make a
difference, though I should ha’ reckernised
you anywhere. P’r’aps you don’t remember
—a man wot’s got on and made money—the
’undered pounds you lent me up in Lauraville
in the good ole days? Ah, often an’ often
I’ve wished I’d bin able to pay it back; but
no chanst till now —not ’arf a one.” He
thrust his hands deep into his trouser
pockets, sucked his teeth complacently, and
“I could sign my own cheque this very
minute for five ’undered and never miss it,”
he added.
Mr. Leeson, who, on principle, had never
lent five shillings in his life, began to enter-
tain doubts regarding the other’s sanity.
“You’re sure it was me —’Orace Leeson —
as lent you the money?” he said slowly.
The little man nodded. “ ‘I, Peter Herring,
promise to pay ’Orace Leeson the sum of
one ’undered pound,’ an’ cetera. It’s orl
written down on the lOU I give you at the
time. You’ve on’y got to look it up and you
shall ’ave my cheque in exchange. Generous
you alwiz was, ’Orace, so there was no talk
of interest between us —you knowin’, none
better, ’ow ’ard up I was in them days. It
ain’t everyone ’as got your good ’eart.
You’ve deserved to get on, and pleased I
am and proud to shake you by the ’and.”
Mr. Leeson took the proffered hand rather
gingerly. , „ ,
“I think I’m beginnin’ to remember, he
said cautiously. “Peter Herring—oh, yes;
I remember you now. Wasn’t you prospect-
in’, or somethin’ of the sort?”
“That’s so,” replied Mr. Herring. “Never
had any luck at the game, though. Had to
turn it up in the long run. Struck a better
payin’ proposition in the city.” He winked
slyly. “’Ow about that lOU, ’Orace?”
Mr. Leeson shrugged his fat shoulders.
“So you never heard of the big fire at Laura-
ville'soon after you left —burnt me out*, lock,
stock and barrel? Every one o’ my books an’
papers destroyed in the dreadful con-flagera-
tion —your lOU among ’em. So ; you see, I
’aven’t got the ghost of a claim on you,
mate.”
“You shan’t be the loser by that, ’Orace—
at least not as fur as I’m concerned,” said
Mr. Herring, with decision. He patted the
other on the arm. “You give me a pen an’
ink and I’ll write you a cheque —that’s the
sorb o’ man I am.”
Mr. Leeson had read somewhere that men
of means —even reputed millionaires —have
been known to carry their indifference to all
external appearances to the length of an
habitual and shameless shabbiness of per-
sonal attire. Judging by this low sartorial
standard. Mr. Peter Herring must
undoubtedly be one of the elect.
“Come inside,” said Mr. Leeson, hospit-
ably. “There’s the tea-bell. You’ll take a
snack along o’ me?”
“Don’t mind if I do,” said Mr. Herring,
licking his lips furtively. , , , .
Mr. Leeson’s guest took a second helping
of everything going. He also consumed
cheese, in addition to cabinet pudding; this
was, by rights, an extra. The most experi-
enced caterer could hardly have expected to
make a profit, however bare, on Mr.
Herring considered a fair ninepenn orth.
Mr. Leeson was as good as a shilling—pos-
sibly eighteenpence —out of pocket by his
ill-advised invitation. He ground his teeth
with rage as he watched his guest’s evident
gusto. If it had not been for a hundred-
pound cheque in prospective, he could never
have endured the sight of that enormous
appetite and the debris of dishes it left in its
wake.
Mr. Herring had just demanded a fifth
cup of tea of a dubious and much-harassed
waitress when the overwrought Mr. Leeson
intervened.
“I’ve ’arf a minute to spare now,” he
said thickly. “If you’ll step inside my pri-
vate room you can write that cheque straight
away.”
Mr. Herring rose from the table with
evident reluctance.
“You’d better keep that cup o’ tea ’ot fur
me —l’ll be back in a couple o’ ticks,” he
remarked, brushing the crumbs from his
waistcoat: and the waitress, for the first
time since her engagement at the Caf6
was inclined to regard her employer
inutile light of Providence.
“Damn !” grunted Mr. Leeson, with pent-
up ferocity.
Eh, wot say?” inquired Mr. Herring, with
a large hiccup.
“Nothin’— mind the step,” said Mr. Leeson
gruffly, as he led the way down a short
passage and flung open the door of a small
room, in which his wife, a Jewish lady of
immense proportions, was seated busy totting
up accounts.
“Mr. Herring, Ju,” he said, in brief in-
troduction.
The abstracted Mrs. Leeson did not even
look up from her books.
“Missed a herring?” she said, pettishly.
“Well, you needn’t bother me about it. Ask
cook, or the cat, or somebody. Now I’ll have
to add up this column over again !”
“Mr. Herring,” repeated her husband, in
a deep bass bellow. “Mr. Peter Herring—old
friend o’ mine. He’s just dropped in to pay
me a cheque wot’s bin owin’ this long while.
You might clear out and let him ’ave the pen
an’ ink for ’arf a mo’, Ju.”
Mrs. Leeson rose with alacrity.
“Sort o’ conscious money, eh?” she said
cheerfully. “You’ll find everything you want
here. And there’s the interest-tables under
the wages-book.”
Mr. Herring, who had been foraging in
his breast-pocket, now betrayed acute symp-
toms of agitation.
“Must ’ave left that cheque-book o’ mine
at ’ome,” he said, nervously. “Extr’ordin’ry
thing ! Made sure I ’ad it with me.” His
face suddenly cleared. “Never mind. Just
loan me a blank form. ’Orace. Here’s a
penny.” He produced a battered copper coin.
( Mr. Leeson grunted disparagingly. “Here
y’are,” he remarked. “Wot’s yer bank?”
Mr. Herring took the cheque form.
“Same as yours—by a co-incidence,
’Orace,” he observed, with mild surprise.
“Bank o’ Groperland. That’s first-rate.”
He sat down at the table, dipped pen in ink
and prepared to write. A thought seemed
to strike him. He laid the pen aside,
chuckled benevolently, and rubbed his hands.
“Seein’ ’as ’ow I’ve owed the money fur so
long, and you in the kindness of your ’eart
not ’avin’ charged me interest, ’Orace, seems
to me the least I can do is to make Madame,
’ere, a little present, like —a noo ’at, or a
bangle. I’ll make out the cheque fur a
’undered an’ five pound.”
Mrs. Leeson appeared gratified. Her hus-
band allowed a slow smile to spread itself
over a countenance the prevailing expression
of which was one of hostility to all persons
whose ideas of what was reasonable in the
quantity and quality of a ninepenny meal
differed from his own.
“I’m sure it’s very good of you, Mr.
What’s-your-name,” murmured Mrs. Leeson.
“And as there was no interest charged” (she
gave her husband a withering look), “I see
no’ arm in accepting such a gentleman-like
offer.”
“No ’arm at all,” agreed Mr. Leeson,
avoiding his wife’s contemptuous eye.
“That’s orl right, then,” said Mr. Her-
ring, as he carefully blotted the cheque. He
rose from the table. “I’ve made it payable
to bearer fur one ’undered an’ six pounds,”
he continued. “I’ve got to call on a man at
’is mansion in Toorak this evenin’, and bein’
past banking hours, and me ’avin’ left meself
a bit short—l ’ad to shout a lady friend
lunch at Menzies ’Otel to-day” (he winked
solemnly at Mrs. Leeson, who smiled
archly)—“l’m afraid I’ll ’ave to ask you to
let me ’ave the loan of a pound, ’Orace, till
to-morrer mornin’, when you cash this ’ere
cheque at the bank.”
Mr. Leeson glanced doubtfully at his wife,
who nodded almost imperceptibly. She was
evidently much struck by Mr. Herring’s per-
sonal appearance and gallant demeanor.
“Orright—’ere y’are,” said Mr. Leeson,
giving the lady-killer a crumpled one pound-
note.
Mr. Herring pocketed the note. “Well, I
must be movin’,” he said.
“Take a smoke along with you,” said the
hospitable Mrs. Leeson, proffering a box of
her husband’s best cigars.
Mr. Herring helped himself to two. “It’s
a long, long way to Toorak,” he remarked
jocosely.
He shook hands warmly with Mrs. Leeson,
and accepted a match from that lady’s hus-
band, who evidently had something on his
mind.
“By the way,” he blurted, “before you go.
Stoopid of me to have forgotten, but wot the
blue blazes did I lend you that hundred for?
Twenty years ain’t exactly the same as yes-
terday, you know.”
Mr. Herring looked shocked, even pained.
“Really, ’Orace, I’m surprised at you !” he
remonstrated. “Arskin’ sech a question in
front o’ your pore wife, too!”
The genuinely-bewildered Mr. Leeson
struggled in vain to find words. He eyed the
punctilious Mr. Herring as if that gentleman
had suddenly manifested demoniacal attri-
butes.
“Eh, what’s that?” inquired Mrs. Leeson,
with suspicious intonation.
Mr. Herring shook his head sorrowfully
at the speechless Mr. Leeson.
“It happened 20 year ago,” he said remin-
iscently. “And young men will be young
men....lf it ’adn’t a-bin my own niece by
marriage”
The now thoroughly aroused Mrs. Leeson
imperatively demanded explanations.
Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASE
IS CAUSED
Among other things by WORRY, OVERWORK, CHILLS, COLDS,
INFLUENZA, DAMPNESS and CONSTANT STOOPING.
cveryPrcture
) Te//s A Story
FI
£
r
=> r
%
\
It Should Never be Forgotten that Stabbing or Dull Pain in the Back,
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Gravel, Droisy are all the Result
of Weak or Diseased Kidneys.
The danger of a wreck begins
immediately the vessel springs a
leak, and then is the easiest time,
the right time, the safest time to
safeguard the ship from being
wrecked. The danger of Bright’s
disease, dropsy, diabetes and othe:
fatal kidney disorders begins imme-
diately there is any sign of kidney
complaint —backache, dizzy spells,
urinary disorders, sediment, gravel,
impure blood, pains in the loins ano
sides, puffy eyelids, swollen ankles
etc. The easiest time, the right
time, the only safe time to protec.
yourself against fatal kidney com
plications is when the first sign-
appear, for kidney complaint come;
on unnoticed and it is bound to em
fatally if neglected. Take no risk;
with your health, but begin with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a
the first sign of anything wrong.
Doan's Pills are a special medicine
and a sure cure for every disordei
of the kidneys or connective system.
But you must be careful to get the
genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE
CURED.
SYDNEY WOnAN SPEAKS.
Mrs. \Y. Sullivan, 53 Beaumont Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, says:— “l suffered ter-
ribly with my kidneys for some time. 1
had terrible pains in my back, and could
hardly move without suffering torture.
Every time I stooped I would get a twinge
across my kidneys like the stab of a knife,
and I could not help screaming out. I
was also subject to bad headaches, dizzy
feelings, and had urinary troubles, the
secretions being thick and cloudy and
difficult to pass. Nothing I took seemed
to suit may case, and I suffered on in spite
of treatment, but at last I got a good
remedy, and that was Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills. A friend advised me to
take a course of these pills, which I did,
and I am pleased to say they cured me
>f every distressing symptom mentioned
above. I used twelve bottles in all, and
my cure is perfect, for I have been as
right as rain for the last twelve months.”
Four years later. Mrs. Sullivan says
'Doan's Backache Kidney Pills did their
work well in my case. It is five years
since they cured me of backache and kids
ney trouble, and I am still well.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
PILLS
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENI
ITCHING PILES. ECZEMA.
Mr. James Higgins, 21 Terry Street.
Surry Hills. Sydney, says:—“Some years
ago I suffered a lot from Itching Piles,
the irritation being very trying, particu-
larly so at night and during the hot
weather. A friend advised me to try
Doan's Ointment, and. knowing how
good Doan's Backache Kidney Pills were,
I bought a pot at once and it proved a
blessing. After a few applications I got
relief, and as I continued with the
remedy the improvement was maintained,
until finally the Piles completely disap-
peared. Five years have elapsed since I
used Doan's Ointment, and I have had no
return of the ailment all that time. I
cannot speak too highly of Doan’s
Ointment, and recommend it to other
sufferers.”
Four years later Mrs. Higgins says:—
"My husband is still free of the torture
of Piles, and has been since Doan's Oint-
ment cured him nine years ago.”
Mrs. J. Thompson, 3 Onslow tree ’
Granville, says:—"For a long time 1 " &
tortured with Eczema. The irritnti
of this ailment is dreadful, the dats a .
miserable and the nights sleepless,
tried all «orts of remedies, but not Wo
did me ..uy good. I consulted a doe -
but his treatment also failed to bene
me. At last my son induced me to g? ‘
pot of Doan's Ointment, having be*
this remedy very well spoken of. * 1
the first application I noticed an impro
ment. so I continued the treatment u
I was quite cured, using in all two P' "
Doan’s Ointment is wonderful,
never miss an opportunity of praisiDp ■
Eczema is a terrible complaint, and "
sufferers will be pleased to know j
sure cure.” e(lVg:
Four years later Mrs. Thompson g
"I am pleased to say I have had no .
of Eczema since Doan's Ointment t
me four years ago.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per pot. or po
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
“Don’t shield ’im. Don’t try and ’ide
nothink from me,” she urged, threateningly.
“Why. damme!’’ began the greatly-har-
assed Mr. Leeson.
"You shut up, till you’re asked to speak.”
interrupted his wife, peremptorily. “Now,
Mi 1 . Thingumbob, you’ve either said too much
or too little.”
Mr. Herring sighed regretfully.
"It’s no use raking up old sores,” he said.
“Dessay pore old ’Grace wasn’t altogether
to blame. Pore Doris —that’s my niece—
was alwuz a light-’eaded bit o’ goods—took
arter ’er pore ma, wot’s dead and gone.
Least said soonest mended: an’ she’s bin
hippy-married now close on 15 year. ’Er
'usband travels in ’ard-ware; and of seven
chi’dren. three was twins —leastways”
"He’s telling you a pack o’ blarsted lies,
Ju,” said the maligned Mr. Leeson, with
concentrated bitterness.
"l*ou brute, you !” gurgled Mrs. Leeson,
hysterically.
"On’y wish I was tellin’ untruths. ’Orace,”
said Mr. Herring, sadly. "I’d never ’ave
took the ’undered pounds as a loan to ’ush
matters up, like, if it ’adn’t a-bin that I
thought it "ud do you good to be learnt a
little lesson. But orl’s well wot ends well.”
"If you’re here another two ticks, you’ll
end dam’ badly,” prophesied Mr. Leeson,
breathing hard.
Rightly interpreting this as a dismissal.
Mr. Herring turned to the tearful Mrs. Lee-
son.
"Good evenin’, mum.” he said. “It wasn’t
my wish, by no manner o’ means, to make
mischief between ’usband an’ wife. But
there, pore ’Orace alwiz was ’eadstrong.
Bye-bye, ’Orace; I’ll give your kind remem-
brances to Dorie nox’ time I see ’er.”
He passed with a high benedictory air out
of the room, leaving the luckless Mr. Leeson
to his fate.
LAURENCE B. JUPP.
The Great Cabbage-water Case.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IL DOTTORE —-his full name is Ben-
venuto Castellani, but he is a Doctor
of Laws, and so II Dottore he shall
always be. He does better than trade law to
fools or find ways for little traders to sneak
through the Pure Foods Act, selling bad
fish-oil for pure lucca or faking drapery in-
voices to beat the Customs. He cooks like
a cock-angel; he can prepare fish so that the
world, speaking with its mouth full, cries
“Splendid ! Perfect!” He cooks chicken so
that apparently he has the monopoly of all
the chickens in the Commonwealth and all
other restaurateurs are left but ancient
hens; and he possesses the charter, the
patent and the secret of a soup that is
electric. Yet has this great man enemies—
the enemies that greatness earns without
having any vice to explain their existence:
enemies whose father is envy and whose
mother is uncharitableness.
Recently the law wretchedly persecuted
him; at the behest of a ruffian who was
neither waiter nor cook but a necessary and
unhumble peeler of potatoes—the which call
for a machine to rob them of their coats
when old. In youth the potato should go to
the fire 'n his jacket and suffer his martyr-
dom with all his clothes on. Can it be
believed that any Court could accept the
word of a potato-peeler against that of an
artist? —until one remembers that the pig is
nicknamed II Magistrato.
This is the only explanation of the perse-
cution of II Dottore—of all cooks the most
perfect—and his conviction for assault on
the body of one Squibkins, potato-peeler
aforesaid.
This Squibkins called himself a sailor,
and had been a steerage steward; and his
promotion to be potato-peeler to the kitchen
of II Dottore represented such an exaltation
in the world that none but an English cad
from Poplar had failed to be humble in his
new greatness. Yet such is illiteracy that
this Squibkins believed that not II Dottore
had made him, but he, the potato-peeler, had
made himself.
Wherefore, one day. being corrected for
his dirty habit >f licking the plates and keel-
ing the pots with a fist that could not pass
the Board of Health without graft, he —the
upstart Squibkins—answered back. Then
did II Dottore beat him upon his starboard
and slanting eye, and Squibkins then upset
the British Constitution by going into court
with dirty hands —the only kind of hands he
ever had.
Dottore Benvenuto Castellani told me of
the trouble of the litigation and of the pre-
sentment, and of his views on Australian
justices of the high, the middle and the low.
as we drank a bottle of white wine hard
by the kitchen-range with all its pots sim-
mering for dinner and the fish-kettle singing
its little song for epicures.
“Signore Randolfo,” said Benvenuto Cas-
tellani, “it shall be this way. In the eve —
the twilight—when the electrica is light for
the pranzo. I shall with my nose smell the
water of the cab bage. Puzzai*e! I shall
not like it. This loafere Squibakin is the
ingegnere of the potate-peel an’ the capitano
of the acqua di cab-bage. I shall to him
say: ‘Where the water of the cab-bage that
shall be smell, make puzzare to my nose?’
And he shall make the rejondere: T ain't
donea notheeng.’ Then I shall make a re-
search, and where shall I find the acqua di
cab-bage? Signore! This loafere he shall
because lie is so stanco, so tire always, he
shall pour the cab-bage water in a stewpan
which I find by the kitchen-range. Signore!
It is the stewpan with the cust-ard: he have
poured the cab-bage water in the cust-ard !
Signore ! I am notta the irritabile man, but
when I see that. I am ebriaco with the
anger, I turn round —so petulant, so much
iristezza —that in a momentino I have strike
him with my feest in the eye—so —that make
him mueha pain—make him see Areturus,
Canopus. Aldebaran —all the stars and much
astronomy. He go to the magistrato, he
send me the carto blue, as the sea of much
profundity, and t’ree day ago I am to the
court of the justeece. Ah. the justeece of
the injusteece! Cheat, baker and candle-
stickmaker are the magistrato, that know not
laws, ignorant as Squibkin.
Stupidi! Ignoranti ! ,
“It is the court; Squibakin kees the s -
chapetaire of Genesees an’ the Epist ot
Giovanni, then tell the lie like Anania .
sav that he know not the cab-bage water.
He sav that I. Benvenuto Castellam, doctor
of Roma, put the acqua di eab-bage in the
custard myself. He say because he tell me
he do notheeng that I take from the pan the
omelette, an’ with the omelette strike mm in
the eye by his nose. I smile! I see how I
shall makea him confuse when I shall kees
the third chapetaire of Geobbe an say the
true, the whol’ true, an’ notheeng but the
true. He sav the omelette in the eye an
not the feest'! Ah! what lie—what he so
forte, so feorce! lam calm so calm like
the ventecello —the so gentle wind that blow
in Sicily. I vait. Patrenza I say: The
justeece of the magistrate is not ter this
pigs. With the truth I shall confuse.
“He tell of me some more ; of how I shall
use his eye with the omelette; then he go
out of the box. My hat is in my hand. 1
go to the box, enterr. take the Kibble, say 1
tell the true, an’ notheeng but the true, kees
the book on the fourth chapetaire of Geobbe
an’ begin my speech.
“My advocate interrupt—l am sorry I pay
that law man to make interruptzione. I
say, ‘Shut up !’ Magistrate with little eyes
say. ‘Quiet!’ lam quiet. I know the in-
iusteece of justeece. Then my advocate he
see that he shall have anger. He is wise
man. He say:
“ ‘Tell your own story, Dottore Benvenuto
Castellani.’
“I clear my voice—l cough. Then I spik.
“I say to the magistrate: ‘This man
Squibakin is a son of pigs .” They ask me
to stop. I say, ‘lf you will talk I cannot
spik. It is first my advocate. Then it is
the magistrate!’
“Thev tell me: ‘Do not call defendant son
of pig.’ I say: ‘I am swear for the true,
the whol’ true, an’ notheeng but the true.’
The so bald magistrate say, ‘Senza patrenza,
go on!’
"I go. I say :
“ ‘Most honorabile judge. magistrate
grandi, Squibakin. whom I will not call son
of pigs, is a peeler of potate an’ ingegnere
primo of the acqua di cab-bage. He because
he is loafere carrya not the cab-bage water
to the sink in the yard where it shall not
be puzzare to the nose, but pour it in the
stewpan of the cust-ard. the cust-ard of the
evenin’, for in the stewpan I find there is
not but the smell for my nose. Here is
destroyment of the good and the bad fame
for the cust-ard and the stew-fruit of my
restorante. I am mad with sadness. I rise
the feest. I with the feest hit heem upon
the eye. I am justify. He say that I shall
strike him with the omelette. Burgiardo!
He tell the great lie. ’Souse, Magistrate,
here is the proof. There is but one omelette
in the pan—it is make for me. If I shall
hit heem on the eye with the omelette shall
it not to the ground go—the floor of the
kitchen. Shall I eat the omelette afeter it
shall be on his so dirty eye and then after
it shall fall to the not so dirty floor of the
kitchen? It is not poss-ible that Dottore
Benvenuto Castellani shall the omelette eat
afeter the so dirty eye of this Squibakin,
the ingegnere of the potate peeler. And shall
the proof that but one omelette is make that
evening and the proof that in that evening
I shall eat the omelette. And this is the
proof that I strike this sneak —this burgiardo
—this ladrone of the Mile En‘ Road —not
with the omelette but with my feest.’
“And then I say. con trionfo. to my advo-
cate : ‘Bring in Giuseppe Pecorino for the
testific-ezione. But this stupid magistrate
cry, ‘Silent!’ and I am tranquille. I wait
—confident in justeece, in di true, the whol’
true, an’ notheeng but the true.
“Then this great magistrato—a brutto pig
with white hair, white whisk’ like the capri.
peegy eyes an’ nose like the secon’ joint of
the oxtail, he say :
“ ‘Defen’, you have makea pleadment of
guilty. You have strike this poor man in
the eye—he say with the omelette, you say
with feest. Feest is harder than omelette,
so the fine shall higher be.’
“I am astound at the word. I try to spek.
He say. ‘Silent!’ I wait. He say. ‘You
are fine three pound for the beating of the eye.
We shall not make the foreigner to beat the
true born Inglesi peeler of the potate if all
the water of cab-bages is mixed with all the
cust-ard under the British flag!’
“I try to spek, but he stop me. He makea
the rep-etition: ‘Fine three pound fifateen
shilling costa for the poor true-born potate-
peeler of the English.’
“Per Dio! It is too much.
“I cannot bear. I got out of the box. In
my so great anger I forget I am in the court
of the in justeece: I put my hat on my head;
I say loud as I march from the court :
“ ’Perla gambi della Madonna. This is
the justeece of the injusteeee !’ Stupido ! I
have spek molto forte! The carabinieri,
the nolismean, he catch me. The pig magis-
trato say: ‘Ar-rest the deafandanut!’ They
take me to the dock. They spek to me much.
I am patient, tranquille—l am fine two
pound for con -tempt of the court. I say:
‘Two pound is not sufficiente for my con-
tempt : but. Signore. I am so cunning wise
I spek it not out loud but to myself. I pay
and I go and I look fiercely at Squibakin as
I pass and I see his little soul—so little a
fly shall carry a million of them upon his
foot —is sick with being a fraud. Five
pound, fifateen shillin' costs. Five pound fifa-
teen shill-ing. Signore, for hit a dirty peeler
of potate in the eye with my feest for telling
the true, the whol’ true an’ notheeng but the
true.”
“But the advocate’s fee, Castellani?”
“I have forget. It is tree pound tree
shill-ing. But. non importe. Signore, the
revenge shall be. The magistrato shall one
day dine here in my restorante and to them
shall be the water of the cab-bage in the
cust-ard they shall eat And when they
makea the objection I shall come from the
kitchen an’ say:
“ ‘Judges of the pig! You make the recog-
nition. This is my justeece for the injus-
teeee.’ ”
“Shall we have an omelette to-night, Dot-
tore ?’’
“No. no—better another bottel. The omel-
ette is not good for the estomae—we shall
keep it for the eye.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCKOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland A fronts—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Rnnlr
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHI!
S* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Ko&d, London, England
Insist on ‘Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma—an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
7w'
OULTON
THREE ~ZZTBBJEJn T'YjRES
m
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
?nailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLQY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS , 212, MADRAS STREET.
p.c.b.— 7o
1
BEECHAM’B
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. “Time tells
all things" says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price lOgd (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (1&8 pills).
"Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
{Patented)
Ift/ each
V[ Post Free
thousands in Use.
V ; '•
Ftg »
Wi/ ach
/ Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
Fig
The
tness and excellence of the
is fully maintained.
BOTHf MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a. feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M^nnsrfs
Perfumed Talcum Powders
By the Half Dozen
DU □□□□□□□□[
nsnnsns
I/lOLSET
Gerhard Mermen
Chemical Co.
l nsvMflßK.nj.u.s.fl _
The Perfect Complexion depends on the quality of the Toilet
Powder used. Inferior and impure powders are positively harmful.
Mermen’s Perfumed Talcum Powders are recognized everywhere as
the purest. Nothing so quickly destroys a woman’s fresh and
delicate complexion as the constant daily use of toilet powders
containing injurious chemicals.
Mennen’s Scented Talcum Powders
Pure—refined—free from foreign matter—deliciously perfumed—are considered by an
increasing number of the fair sex as the safest and daintiest toilet powders. They can
be had in a variety of Tints and Perfumes.
Insist on the Genuine Mennen’a
Borated Talcum Powder. At
all Leading Chemists and Stores.
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
’ Victoria Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney. N. S. W
Sen Yang—With a Seductive yet illusive odour of the Orient.
Flesh Tint—Exquisitely perfumed with the odour of Roses, and
delicately tinted pink.
Violet—With the dainty scent of the delicate “Violet de
Partne."
Cream Tint A “Rachel” powder, cream-coloured and
scented with orange blossoms.


MANGROVIT
LEATHER
IILfING
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GRO VITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowlci,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. C.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
Trade Mark
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Too! Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE. ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. ltd.,
Danaemora Steel Works, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
£x3" £x3" t'*3" |g"x4" it'x-4'
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LIL
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
Latrobc Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaic
Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Build with. HARDIE’S
“FIBROLITE’ W> Cement
THE AUSTRALIAN-MADE
ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
Because, while construction costs are equal
they last better than Weatherboards, are Fire
Rain, Rot and White-ant Proof. ’ They are
cheaper by one-third to paint, (ln . '
and Insurance rates are 25 per “eties Time’s
cent, less, as compared with Touch.”
Wood.
Write us for Booklet “D”
and sample.
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
’Phone 6239 (3 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane & Adelaide.
rRAD|J^RK
FOR
■M
M
m
f
£
I
T
i
i
&
/
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
It is Kelpful to those wKo need a re-invigorating stimulant.
a
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine.
“Tangrye" Portable Lamf
Oil Engine.
“Star” Portable Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies
TANGYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLEChaffcutters.
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants.
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
comprise
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
aat
s»»^
i
I
1
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
IA
fl!
Buncle Travelling: Chaffcutter
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES
most efficient
The “Wb'lseley” is the world’s best machine—.and is invariably
t profitable investment.
It works smoothly, without giving any trouble whatever, and
the cost for upkeep is surprisingly low.
Decide to instal a “Wolseley.”
Get full information from
DaJgety & Company, Ltd., Australasian Agents—At! Branches.
.... V
Laundry Machinery & Supplies
We are now manufacturing and have in stock for
immediate delivery complete Laundry Equipment
of the latest English and American design.
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Power Ironing Machines, Hand ironers, etc.
And ALL SUPPLIES for the Laundry Trade.
Call and inspect or write for full descriptive catalog.
;ers ai&«
60 Clarence Street, Sydn
ants,
N.S.W.
.
in
mm
.
c
We have the following Second-hand Plant available dPq,r immediate disposal:
Horizontal Air Compressor and Receiver (400 ft. air).
Launch Engine and Boiler.
Steam Navvy.
Elevating Plant.
Weighbridge (10-ton).
Rails (40 tons assorted).
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, SYDNEY.
